{"id": "2123471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123471", "title": "Calbiga", "text": "Calbiga\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people. The town is famous for the Langun-Gobingob Caves which is the largest cave system in the Philippines, reputed to be the second largest in Asia and the world's third largest karst formation.\n\nCalbiga is politically subdivided into 41 barangays.\n\nIn 1649, Calbiga was an annex or \"visita\" of Catbalogan; later in 1768, Calbiga was transferred to the jurisdiction of Umauas. All through Jesuit times, Calbiga remained a visita until 1772, when it had its first residential pastor, the Franciscan Fray Miguel Rico (de Jesus), O.F.M.. Calbiga was constituted as a separate unit under the advocacy of the Anuncacion.\n\nIn 1803, Fray Juan Caballero de Brozas, O.F.M. built a wooden church but in 1808, a typhoon destroyed this church and was rebuilt by the same Fray Brozas. By 1840, Brozas's second church was in bad state.\n\nIn 1853, Fray Francisco Moreno de Montalbanejo. O.F.M. had gathered enough material for a stone church. However, Redondo (1884, 217) that the church was wood roofed with thatch.\n\nThe Jesuits left no permanent architectural imprint in the town.\n\nThe present barrio \"Binongto-an (meaning, \"once a town) was the original Calbiga settlement. Legend - as recorded by Atty. Singzon - has it that the people of Calbiga originated from two brothers, Calpis and Bituan. Bituan established a village near the mouth of the river while Calpis stayed upstream the exact location of the town today. The descendants of Bituan later abandoned the coastal village to join the descendants of Calpis.\n\nLangun-Gobingob Caves (Barangay Panayuran): The largest cave system in the Philippines, reputed to be the second largest in Asia and the world's third largest karst formation, is 7 km. long with an area of 900 square km. The area is composed of at least 12 interconnected caves. Locals believe that the caves are home to ancient primordial spirits and the spirits of Waray ancestors, making the caves one of the most sacred zones in Samar.\n\nLulugayan Falls and Rapids (Barangay Literon): Hundreds of waterfalls cascade down the 14-kilometer rapids from the source at Lake Kalidongan to the Calbiga River. The most majestic and panoramic is the Lulugayan Falls at Barangay Literon Correche. Approximately fifty meters wide, Lulugayan Falls has been dubbed by tourists as a Mini Niagara.\n\nKalidongan Lake (Barangay Literon): The eternal spring—the mythical crater-like lake, 90–100 meters in diameter, lined with clean white limestone. Its clear, fresh water endlessly flows down the rapids, onto the Calbiga River and Maqueda Bay.\n\nMaqueda Bay and Mangrove Forests: The richest spawning grounds in Eastern Visayas for Fish and crustaceans and one of the pillars of the island's economy.\n\nCalbiga River: The river is the town's thriving lifeline. Small bancas daily go upstream and loaded with native merchandise. It serves 17 barangays as transport byway and water source.\n\nKanyawa Caves (Barangay Caamlongan): A little farther to the east is another huge caves system recently explored by French and Italian spelunkers. The caves system consists of fifteen galleries of distinctive features and underground rivers, and numerous stalactites and stalagmites.\n\nChildren's Play Area and Nature Park (Barangay Bacyaran): The first phase of the Calbiga Nature Park will also include a Visitor's Center, Multi-purpose Pavilion, Amphitheater, Boardwalk and many more.\n\nThe Evangelization of Calbiga\n\nWhen the Jesuits established missions in the island of Samar in 1696, Calbiga was served as a visita by the Jesuit resident mission in Umauas. In 1768, the Franciscans took over the administration of Samar and. Soon after, in 1771, Calbiga was established as a parish appointing Fray Miguel Rico (de Jesus), O.F.M. as the first \"cura paroco\". For lack of missionaries. Umauas was joined to Calbiga until separated by a decree on March 12, 1863, giving Umauas its present name, Villa-Real.\n\nThe Original Patrona\n\nCalbiga was then under the patronage of \"Nuestra Señora de los Angeles\" (Our Lady, Queen of the Angels) and the town’s special feast day was celebrated on August 2 even at the original settlement, Binongtoan, at the mouth of the Calbiga River. The transfer of the seacoast villagers to the upper part of the river, based on legend, was related to the miracles of the Virgin. Here’s a Portion of the report submitted to the Historical Commission by the Alcalde Mayor Perfecto Hacbang in 1938: “We also have a sample of unexplained happenings as follows: at the time when the town was still in the place of Binongto-an, the patron saint, then Nuestra Señora de los Angeles, would disappear from its site and was always found afterwards in the place where the town is located today. It was one of the main reasons why the people moved to this town.” This story was corroborated by historian-writer Atty. Filomeno Singzon in his article La Historia de la Virgen de la Anuncacion.\nThe original wooden image of \"Nuestra Señora de los Angeles\" had a special niche beside the altar even after the antique church was demolished and replaced by concrete structure in the mid-Sixties, but during the finishing touches of its interiors, the “miraculous” image, together with some precious relics, the other santos, the silver candelabra, the other intricate wood carvings and the other “antiques” disappeared, never to be seen again.\n\nFrom \"Nuestra Señora de los Angeles\" to \"Nuestra Señora de la Anuncacion\"\n\nWhen Fray Juan Caballero de Brozas, O.F.M. built a strong wooden church in 1803, he dedicated it to \"Nuestra Senora de la Anuncacion\" (Our Lady of the Annunciation) whose feast day falls on March 25. But the Calbiganons continued to venerate the image of Nuestra Señora de los Angeles until it was replaced by a new image of a kneeling virgin with the Archangel Gabriel, during the hermanidad of Señora Mamerta Quimbo Abellar de Singzon sometime after the church was built and dedicated to \"Nuestra Señora de la Anuncacion\" in 1803.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123472", "title": "Daram, Samar", "text": "Daram, Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe origin of the name Daram is from a type of bird, called Darangsiyao, that guided the initial settlers to the island. Some time later, a Spaniard inquiring about the name of the island, mistook the name for \"Daramsiyao\". This was further shortened to the current name of Daram. The original name of Daramsiyao is still in use as the name of the annual festival held in Poblacion 1 on January 15.\n\nThe Island was originally part of the municipality of Zumarraga, Samar, and mostly inhabited by a few fisher-folk and travelers from other places whose primary source of income was fishing and farming.\nAs the years passed Daram began to grow in population and economic activities through settlers and travelers who constructed dwelling units sporadically along the coastlines of the islands.\n\nOn 1 September 1949, President Elpidio Quirino signed Executive Order No. 262. This order ceded the islands of Daram and Parasan from the Municipality of Zumarraga and created the independent Municipality of Daram, with barrio (now barangay) Daram as the municipal seat. On the current list of barangay for the Municipality of Daram, there is no barangay named Daram. \n\nDaram has a total land area of 14,026 hectares (34,659 acres). The province is composed of two major islands; Daram Island and Parasan Island. Other islands include Poro Island and Danaodanauan Island (uninhabited).\n\nThe main island features mountainous interiors with very narrow coastal areas. Mountain ranges occupy the major portion of the island municipality.\n\nDaram has a combination of warm and cool climatic zones, thus the prevailing climate is ideal for the cultivation of a wide range of agricultural crops. There is no distinct dry season but the heavy wet season generally occurs in December.\n\nDaram lies within the western part of Samar Sea and the Zumarraga Channel. The north and western boundary is the Samar Sea; the eastern boundary is the Zumarraga Channel; the southern boundary is Daram Channel.\n\nIt can be reached by a 30-minute boat ride from the provincial capital of Catbalogan City and Northern Leyte.\n\nDaram is politically subdivided into 58 barangays.\nThe native language of the majority in Daram is Samarnon-Waray-Waray (also known as Waraynon, Samarnon, or Samar-Leyte Visayan) and to a lesser degree Cebuano, both Visayan languages. Majority of the residents also speak and understand Tagalog and English.\n\nMost of the inhabitants of Daram are Roman Catholics and a small number of Born again (Christianity). Because of the large number of Catholics, like other places in Philippines, they also celebrate fiesta (festival).\n\nBeing an island municipality, the main livelihood is fishing and agriculture. Seafood is a local specialty, in fact, many fish are sold in the markets of nearby Catbalogan and Tacloban.\n\nThe major fishing products caught in the seas around Daram are galonggong, alumahan, tamban, pompano, bisugo (bream), lapu-lapu, rabbitfish, slipmouth and assorted. Other fish resources are seaweed, mussels/oysters, crabs and shells.\n\nKelp seaweed is also a major harvest and exported worldwide.\n\nAgricultural income is derived mostly from coconuts, bananas, corn and other crops such as sweet potato, cassava, and legumes.\n\nLike all other Municipalities in the Philippines, Daram is governed from the Municipal Hall by a Mayor and the Sangguniang Panlungsod which is composed of the City (Municipality) Vice Mayor as Presiding Officer, regular Sanggunian members (Councilors), the President of the Daram Chapter of the League of Barangays of the Philippines and the President of the Daram Chapter of the Sangguniang Kabataan (Student Leaders). These elected officials are entitled to three-year terms.\n\nThese political leaders exercise and perform the legislative powers and duties as provided for under Republic Act No. 7160, otherwise known as the Local Government Code of 1991. They are empowered to consider and conduct thorough study all matters brought to their attention and consequently pass resolutions, enact ordinances and introduce recommendations.\n\nIn 2010, it has a budgetary allocation of PHP 19.8 million from the Philippine government.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDaram offers limited urban and extensive basic rural infrastructure that includes water-based transportation, a plentiful public water supply, electrical supply from SAMELCO II, cellular and cable communication facilities, sports and recreational facilities, tourist spots, and common service establishments.\n\nDaram has 58 primary schools.\n\nDaram has 8 secondary schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123473", "title": "April Winchell", "text": "April Winchell\n\nApril Terri Winchell (born January 4, 1960) is an American actress, voice actress, writer, talk radio host and commentator. She is best known as the official voice of Clarabelle Cow in the Disney franchise since 1996.\n\nWinchell is the daughter of Paul Winchell.\n\nWinchell's projects include the role of Sylvia in \"Wander Over Yonder,\" a Disney Channel animated series featuring Jack McBrayer in the title role. Created by \"The Powerpuff Girls\" producers Craig McCracken and Lauren Faust, the show chronicles the adventures of \"Wander\" and his trusty (and cynical) steed Sylvia, as they travel the universe. The series premiered on the Disney Channel in September 2013.\n\nAs a voice actress, she has been heard in hundreds of animated television series, such as \"Goof Troop\" (as Peg Pete), \"Recess\" (as Mrs. Muriel Finster), \"Disney's House of Mouse\" and \"Mickey Mouse Clubhouse\" (as Clarabelle Cow), \"Bonkers\" (as Lucky's wife, Dyl Piquel), \"Pepper Ann\" (as title character's mom, Lydia Pearson), and \"Kids from Room 402\" (as Miss Gracie Graves the school teacher, along with several other characters that appear on the show), \"The Legend of Tarzan\" (taking over for Rosie O'Donnell as Terk in the original film), \"\" (as Cruella De Vil), \"\" (as Molly Mange), \"Robot and Monster\", \"Phineas & Ferb\" and \"Kim Possible\".\n\nShe has also voiced characters in numerous films, including \"Antz\", \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\", \"Monsters University\" and Rob Zombie's \"The Haunted World of El Superbeasto\". Winchell portrayed the \"Glendale Federal Bank\" lady – a cranky, cynical customer alleviated by the service at her new bank – in a series of highly successful radio commercials, which Winchell wrote and directed herself. The commercials caught the attention of Roseanne, who hired her as a writer on her eponymous sitcom. She was also tested for the part of Regan in \"The Exorcist\" due to her ill and was taken out of consideration.\n\nBesides her many contributions to radio advertising as a director, writer, and performer, Winchell also hosted a radio talk show program on KFI, a Los Angeles radio station. This weekend program aired for three years, and enjoyed the fastest growth audience in the history of the station. Subsequent to the end of this program in November 2002, she appeared semi-regularly on the \"Ask Mr. KABC\" program, on KABC, an AM station also in Los Angeles – until the show ended in February 2007.\n\nIn 2005, Winchell signed a deal with U.S. pay-TV service HBO to develop and host a show on Sirius Satellite Radio. However, on her official website on May 3, 2006, she announced that negotiations had stalled out between HBO and Sirius, leaving her program in limbo.\n\nOn March 16, 2007, she returned to semi-regular radio appearances on \"The Marc \"Mr. K\" Germain Show\" on KTLK-AM (the new show hosted by the former Mr. KABC) and appeared twice a month. (Her appearances on Germain's show are available at her website in addition to KTLK's website.) During March, Winchell was \"banned for life\" from KABC (AM) in Los Angeles at the behest of ABC radio host Bill O'Reilly, over a retelling of an occurrence she dubbed \"Croissantgate\" (KABC provided Bill O'Reilly with croissants that were not fresh enough for his taste, causing a commotion at the station).\n\nAs a musical theater actor, she starred as \"Ado Annie\" in the Columbia Artists revival of \"Oklahoma!\", and also appeared opposite Kevin Spacey in \"\".\n\nAdditionally, Winchell wrote and starred as \"Sheila Sands\" in her show at the Roxy Theatre in Los Angeles to sold out crowds. The show was produced by Lily Tomlin and Jane Wagner, who discovered her at Cafe Largo in Hollywood. Winchell reprised the character to open for Brad Garrett at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas in 2013.\n\nShe has also been a frequent panelist on the live-stage version of \"What's My Line\" at the Acme Comedy Theatre in Hollywood.\n\nIn 1992, Winchell and her then-husband Mick Kuisel formed Radio Savant Productions, a radio advertising production company. Since that time, Winchell has received many awards including Cannes, Clio, The $100,000 Mercury Award and The International Grand Andy (bestowed by The Association of Independent Commercial Producers) – it was the only time the Andy was given for radio. Winchell also provided the award-winning radio and television advertising for Big Bear Mountain Resorts for over 20 years.\n\nWinchell's official website contains a link to her IMDB biography and library of unusual and outsider music pieces.\n\nPrior to 2009, Winchell maintained a personal Web site that, in addition to the music pieces, chronicled the actor's activities, which include her professional, personal, and romantic life. In October 2009, Winchell (under the pseudonym \"Helen Killer\") launched Regretsy, a blog website which satirized Etsy. Within four days, the site had received nearly 90 million hits. This huge viral success caught the attention of Random House, who subsequently won a bidding war to publish a book based around the Regretsy website. The book, which was published April 6, 2010, features humorous and bizarre crafts and artwork from several different artists, as well as essays about Winchell's personal life, childhood and own crafting failures. As of March 1, 2012, the Regretsy site had raised over $200,000 for charitable causes. The popularity of Regretsy's \"Not Remotely Steampunk\" section even inspired a viral \"chap hop\" music video. Winchell ceased updating Regretsy on February 1, 2013.\n\nWinchell made several appearances on early episodes of the internet broadcast series \"Talk Radio One,\" interviewed by former Los Angeles radio personality Marc Germain. She became a weekly guest on the series beginning in 2017.\n\nWinchell worked on the 1996 video game \"Toonstruck\" in which she voiced a number of characters including Ms. Fit, Polly, Punisher Polly and Dr. Payne's Receptionist. Not only did she voiced the characters but she has also worked as casting and dialogue director for the game. She also worked as a punch writer for \"\" and wrote three episodes of the American sitcom \"Roseanne\".\n\nWinchell is the daughter of ventriloquist, actor, and comedian Paul Winchell, and his second wife, Nina Russel. In her weblog writings and appearances on radio, she describes her childhood with many references to the great talent of her father as well as the many disturbing incidents owing to his mental health issues.\n\nIn broadcasts of her KFI show, on her web diary and several other websites, Winchell revealed she and Kevin Spacey dated for a while after high school.\n\nOn August 19, 2005, she announced on her website that she was diagnosed with stage 4 thyroid cancer. To promote solidarity during her radiation treatment, she issued her own \"Glow in the Dark\" wristbands, so one could \"glow along\" with April. She made a full recovery.\n\nWinchell is a supporter of charities including Project Angel Food, a Los Angeles-based service providing meals for homebound people living with AIDS. Her website, Regretsy, generated charitable funds through selling of Regretsy merchandise. On, April 17, 2011, Winchell created April's Army, which ran monthly campaigns for which all profits went to a selected Regretsy member who has encountered hardships. On December 5, 2011, Regretsy began a Secret Santa program, collecting donations for presents for needy children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123475", "title": "Edward Spears", "text": "Edward Spears\n\nSpears was born of British parents at 7 chaussée de la Muette in the fashionable district of Passy in Paris on 7 August 1886; France would remain the land of his childhood. His parents, Charles McCarthy Spiers and Melicent Marguerite Lucy Hack, were British residents of France. His paternal grandfather was the noted lexicographer, Alexander Spiers, who had published an English-French and French-English dictionary in 1846. The work was extremely successful and adopted by the University of France for French Colleges.\n\nEdward Louis Spears changed his name from Spiers to Spears in 1918. He claimed that the reason was his irritation at the mispronunciation of Spiers, yet it is possible that he wanted an English looking name – something more in keeping with his rank as a brigadier-general and head of the British Military Mission to the French War Office. He denied that he was of Jewish stock, but his great-grandfather had been an Isaac Spiers of Gosport who married Hannah Moses, a shopkeeper of the same town. His ancestry was no secret. In 1918 the French ambassador in London described him as \"a very able and intriguing Jew who insinuates himself everywhere.\"\n\nHis parents separated while he was a child, and his maternal grandmother played an important role during his formative years. The young Louis (the name used by his friends) was often on the move, usually with his grandmother – Menton, Aix-les-Bains, Switzerland, Brittany and Ireland. He had contracted diphtheria and typhoid as an infant and was considered delicate. However, after two years at a tough boarding school in Germany, his physical condition improved and he became a strong swimmer and an athlete.\n\nIn 1903, he joined the Kildare Militia, the 3rd Battalion of the Royal Dublin Fusiliers. In the mess, he acquired the nickname of Monsieur Beaucaire after a play about an urbane Frenchman. The nickname stuck and he was called this by both of his wives, the first of whom would often shorten it to B. In 1906 he was commissioned in the regular army with the 8th Royal Irish Hussars. Spears did not conform to the conventional image of a young army officer. In the same year that he was commissioned, he published a translation of a French general's book, \"Lessons of the Russo-Japanese War\". His upbringing with a succession of tutors meant that he had not learned to mix, and so he did not easily adapt to life in an officers' mess. He could be tactless and argumentative and became an outsider – something he would remain all his life. In 1911, he worked at the War Office developing a joint Anglo-French codebook. In 1914, he published \"Cavalry Tactical Schemes\", another translation of a French military text. In May of the same year, he was sent to Paris to work alongside the French at their Ministry of War with orders to make contact with British agents in Belgium. With the outbreak of war in August 1914, on the orders of his colonel at the War Office, Spears left Paris for the front. Later he would proudly claim that he had been the first British officer at the front.\n\n Cooperation between the French and British armies was severely hampered by a lack of linguistic competence among British and French officers. General Henry Wilson, a staff officer acting as a liaison officer to the French Army, had been said to declare that he saw 'no reason for an officer knowing any language except his own'. According to one story, when Field Marshal Sir John French, the commander of the British Expeditionary Force at the start of the First World War, had spoken (then as a general) from a prepared French text at manoeuvres in France in 1910, his accent was so bad that his listeners thought he was speaking in English.\n\nDuring the First World War, British soldiers unable to pronounce French words came up with their own (often humorous) versions of place names – the town of Ypres (\"Ieper\" in Flemish) was known as 'Wipers'. Yet French place names were also a problem for senior officers. In the spring of 1915, Spears was ordered to pronounce French place names in an English way otherwise General Robertson, the new Chief of Staff, would not be able to understand them.\n\nOn the French side, few of the commanders spoke good English with the exception of Generals Nivelle and Ferdinand Foch. It was in this linguistic fog that the bilingual young subaltern, made his mark. Although only a junior officer (a lieutenant of Hussars), he would get to know senior British and French military and political figures (Churchill, French, Haig, Joffre, Pétain, Reynaud, Robertson etc.) – a fact that would stand him in good stead during later life.\n\n Sent first to the Ardennes on 14 August 1914, his job was to liaise between Field Marshal Sir John French and General Charles Lanrezac, commander of the French Fifth Army. The task was made more difficult by Lanrezac's obsession with secrecy and an arrogant attitude towards the British. The Germans were moving fast and the allied commanders had to make decisions quickly, without consulting each other; their headquarters were also on the move and could not keep their counterparts up to date with their locations. In today's age of radio communication, it is hard to believe that such vital information was often relayed personally by Spears, who travelled by car between the headquarters along roads clogged with refugees and retreating troops.\n\nCommanders were aware that wireless communications were insecure and so often preferred the traditional, personal touch for liaison work. And as far as the telephone was concerned, Spears refers to 'exasperating delays'; sometimes, he was even put through to the advancing Germans by mistake. On these occasions he pretended to be German to extract information, but failed as his German was not sufficiently convincing.\n\nOn 23 August, General Lanrezac made a sudden decision to retreat – a manoeuvre that would have dangerously exposed the British forces on his flank. Spears was able to inform Sir John French in the nick of time – the action of a young liaison officer had saved an army. The following day, Spears amazed himself by his audacious language when urging General Lanrezac to launch a counter-attack, \"Mon Géneral, if by your action the British Army is annihilated, England will never pardon France, and France will not be able to afford to pardon you.\" In September, Spears again showed that he was not afraid to speak his mind. When General Franchet d'Esperey, Lanrezac's successor, had heard (incorrectly) that the British were in retreat, the French officer said 'some unacceptable things concerning the British commander-in-chief in particular and the British in general'. Spears confronted Franchet d'Esperey's chief-of-staff for an apology, which was duly given. At the suggestion of his young liaison officer, Sir John French visited Franchet d'Esperey a few days later to clear up the misunderstanding. Spears remained with the French Fifth Army during the First Battle of the Marne, riding on horseback behind Franchet d'Esperey when Reims was liberated on 13 September.\n\n Spears remained with Franchet d'Esperey after the Battle of the Marne until his posting at the end of September 1914 as liaison officer with the French Tenth Army, which was now under General de Maud'huy near Arras. The two men got on well – Maud'huy referring to him as 'my friend Spears', and insisting that they ate together. It was at the recommendation of the new commander that Spears was made a 'Chevalier de la Légion d'honneur'. In January 1915, he was wounded for the first time and repatriated to convalesce in London. He was mentioned in dispatches and again commended by Maud'huy – as a result he was awarded the Military Cross.\n\nAgain at the front in April 1915, he accompanied Winston Churchill, then First Lord of the Admiralty, on a tour of inspection. Frequently the only Englishman in a French officers' mess, Spears could feel lonely and isolated and had to endure criticism of his country. The general feeling in France was that Britain should be doing more.\n\nWhen he returned to France after treatment for a second wound which he had incurred in August 1915 (there would be a total of four during the war), he found General Sir Douglas Haig, who was in command of the British First Army, and General d'Urbal, the new commander of the French Tenth Army, at loggerheads; it was his task to improve the relationship. Then on 5 December, the Dardanelles Campaign having failed, Winston Churchill arrived in France seeking a command on the western front. He had lost his post of First Lord of the Admiralty and wanted to temporarily leave the political arena. The two men became friends and Churchill suggested that if he were to be given command of a brigade, Spears might join him as his brigade major. However, Churchill was instead given command of a battalion. In any case, Spears' work in liaison was too highly valued and there was no question that he would be allowed to join Churchill.\n\nHe got to know General Philippe Pétain, who had distinguished himself at the Battle of Verdun in 1916 and said of him, \"I like Pétain, whom I know well.\" Prior to the Battle of the Somme, he hoped that he would no longer have to face criticism of the British. However, when the British failed and took heavy losses, there were hints that they could not stand shell fire. He began to doubt his fellow countrymen – had they lost the vigour and courage of their forebears? In August 1916, subjected to emotional buffeting from both sides, he feared he might suffer a breakdown.\n\nIn May 1917, Spears became a major and was promoted to General Staff Officer 1st Grade prior to taking up a high-level appointment in Paris, where he was to liaise between the French Ministry of War and the War Office in London. In less than three years, this young officer had got to know many influential figures on both sides of the Channel. He found Paris full of intrigues, with groups of officers and officials conspiring against each other. Spears exploited the confusion to his advantage and created an independent position for himself.\n\nWithin days, Spears was dining at the French War Ministry with a group of VIPs – the British Prime Minister David Lloyd George, General Philippe Pétain, the Chief of the Imperial General Staff General Sir William Robertson, Admiral Jellicoe, War Minister Paul Painlevé and Major-General Frederick Maurice, who was the British Director of Military Operations. His brief was to report directly to the War Office in London, bypassing the military attaché. On 17 May, General Pétain, the new French Commander in Chief, told Spears that he wished Lt-General Henry Wilson, who had been closely associated with Petain's disgraced predecessor Nivelle, to be replaced as the chief British liaison officer. Realising this would make Wilson his enemy, Spears protested but was overruled.\n\nBy 22 May 1917 he had learned of the mutinies in the French Army and travelled to the front to make an assessment. The mutinies had first rumbled during the slaughter at Verdun the previous year (especially during the costly counterattacks by Nivelle and Mangin) and had erupted in earnest after the failure of the Nivelle Offensive in the spring of 1917. Spears was called to London to report on French morale to the War Policy Cabinet Council – a heavy responsibility. Spears recorded in a 1964 BBC interview that Lloyd George asked repeatedly for assurances that the French would recover. At one point Spears said\n“You can shoot me if I am wrong – I know how important it is and will stake my life on it.\" Lloyd George was still not satisfied: “Will you give me your word of honour as an officer and a gentleman that the French Army will recover?”. Spears was so stung by this that he replied \"The fact that you ask me that shows you know the meaning of neither\".\n\nSpears heard of French dissatisfaction which was expressed on 7 July at a secret parliamentary session. Left wing deputies declared that the British had suffered 300,000 casualties as opposed to 1,300,000 by the French. Furthermore, they were holding a front of , whereas the French held .\n\nIn November 1917, Georges Clemenceau became Prime Minister of France and restored a will to fight. Spears reported that Clemenceau, who spoke English fluently, was 'markedly pro English'; he was sure that France would last out to the bitter end. Clemenceau had told Spears that he could come to see him at any time – and this he duly did, taking his friend Winston Churchill – now Minister of Munitions – to meet the so-called 'Tiger of France'.\nSpears became aware of Clemenceau's ruthlessness – 'probably the most difficult and dangerous man I have ever met' – and told London that he was 'out to wreck' the Supreme War Council at Versailles, France, being bent on its domination.\n\nGeneral Henry Wilson reported Spears as 'one to make mischief'. At the first meeting of the Supreme War Council in December 1917, Spears took the role as a master of ceremonies, interpreting and acting as a go-between. In January 1918, he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant-colonel and was told he would be made a brigadier-general – the rank that he retained after the war. However, one month later he feared for his career when his enemy, Henry Wilson, replaced General Sir William Robertson as Chief of the Imperial General Staff.\n\nFebruary 1918 saw more intrigues in Paris. General Ferdinand Foch, an ally and friend of General Henry Wilson, would be nominated Allied Supreme Commander in the northern French town of Doullens on 26 March 1918.\nFoch was concerned at the friendship between his General Alphonse Georges and Louis Spears. Fearing that the latter would know too much, Foch said he would deny the Englishman access to diplomatic dispatches. However, this never came about because Spears played his ace card – the close relationship which he enjoyed with Georges Clemenceau. His adversary General Henry Wilson, the new Chief of the Imperial General Staff, was advised by Foch to 'get rid of Spears'. The complications continued with Spears fighting to maintain his position – telling Wilson that the antagonism of Foch stemmed from personal resentment, and calling upon support from his friend, Winston Churchill. Spears argued that he was attached to Clemenceau and not to Foch – thus his position in Paris was assured, a fact confirmed in due course in a letter from Henry Wilson.\n\nThe German offensive of March 1918 forced the allies back and Paris came under artillery bombardment. Mutual recrimination followed, with Field Marshal Douglas Haig raging 'because the French don't help more'; and the French failing to understand 'why the British can't hold'. Paris was a nest of vipers. Both sides were wary of Spears – the French ambassador in London believing him to be a Jew and an intriguer who had wormed his way into the trust of Paul Painlevé (War Minister in the summer of 1917 when Spears had replaced Wilson in French confidence, later Prime Minister from 12 September to 16 November 1917), and that he had passed secrets to the British. By the same token, Spears pointed a finger at Professor Alfred Mantoux, claiming that he was giving information to the French socialist, Albert Thomas. However, Henry Wilson noted that 'Spears is jealous of Mantoux, who is his successful rival as an interpreter.' By the end of May, the Germans were at the River Marne and even Clemenceau turned against Spears. The reason according to Lord Derby, the new ambassador to Paris, was that he 'finds out and tells our government things that Clemenceau does not wish them to know'.\n\nIn September 1918, the Germans were in retreat and although praise for Britain came from Foch, the French press was off-hand. Bad feeling towards the British persisted after the armistice on 11 November 1918. In his victory speech to the Chamber of Deputies, Clemenceau did not even mention the British – 'calculated rudeness' according to Spears.\n\nIn 1908, as a young cavalry officer, Spears suffered concussion after being knocked unconscious during a game of polo. He was treated in London and fell in love with Jessie Gordon, one of the two women running the nursing home where he was a patient. This affair would last for several years – often causing him distress.\n\nIn October 1916, just behind the Western Front, he met Mrs Mary Borden-Turner, an American novelist with three daughters who wrote under her maiden name of Mary Borden and was a wealthy heiress. When Spears first met Mary – 'May' as she was known – she had used her money to set up a field hospital for the French army. The attraction was mutual and by the spring of 1917 she and Louis had become lovers. They were married at the British consulate in Paris some three months after her divorce in January 1918. Their only child, Michael, was born in 1921. He contracted osteomyelitis when he was a teenager and ill health would dog him throughout his life. He nevertheless won a scholarship to Oxford and entered the Foreign Office. However, he suffered from depression and became unable to work, dying at the age of just 47.\n\nThe financial security which Spears and May had enjoyed thanks to her family fortune came to an end when she lost her share of the wealth in the Wall Street Crash of 1929.\n\nMay resumed her work for the French during the Second World War having established the Hadfield-Spears Ambulance Unit in 1940 with funds from Sir Robert Hadfield, the steel tycoon. The unit was staffed with British nurses and French doctors. May and her unit served in France until the German Blitzkrieg in June 1940 forced them to evacuate to Britain via Arcachon. From May 1941, with funds provided by the British War Relief Society in New York, the medical unit served with Free French forces in the Middle East, North Africa, Italy and France.\nIn June 1945, a victory parade was held in Paris; de Gaulle had forbidden any British participation. However, vehicles from May's Anglo-French ambulance unit took part – Union Jacks and Tricolours side by side as usual. De Gaulle heard wounded French soldiers cheering, \"Voilà Spears! Vive Spears!\" and ordered that the unit be closed down immediately and its British members repatriated. May commented, \"A pitiful business when a great man suddenly becomes small.\". May wrote to General de Gaulle protesting at his order, and speaking in the name of the French officers who had been attached to her unit. The general replied, denying that her unit had been dissolved because of the flying of the British flag; he maintained that a decision had already been taken to dissolve six of the nine mobile surgical units attached to his forces. May's reply of 5 July was bitter: 'From you I have had no recognition since February 1941 [...] but our four years with the 1st Free French Division have bound to us the officers and men of that Division with bonds that can never be broken.' Mary Borden died on 2 December 1968; her obituary in \"The Times\" pays tribute to her humanitarian work during both world wars and describes her as 'a writer of very real and obvious gifts'.\n\nSpears resigned his commission in June 1919, thus bringing to an end his post as Head of the Military Mission in Paris. In October of the same year, the former Director of Military Operations in Paris, Sir Frederick Maurice, passed through the city accompanied by his daughter, Nancy. Unlike most girls of her background and station, Nancy had had a good education and was a trained secretary. She agreed to act as Spears' secretary on a temporary basis. However, she would become indispensable and remain in the post for 42 years. Their work brought them close and an affair developed.\n\nWhen he returned to the Levant in the spring of 1942 after sick leave in Britain, she accompanied him as his secretary. With her good head for commerce, she proved invaluable when he became chairman of the Ashanti Goldfields Corporation in West Africa after the war. When May died in December 1968, Nancy expected a speedy marriage but Louis prevaricated. They married on 4 December 1969 at St Paul's Church, Knightsbridge, and Nancy thus became the second Lady Spears. Nancy died in 1975.\n\nIn 1921, Spears went into business with a Finnish partner – their aim was to establish trading links in the newly founded republic of Czechoslovakia. On a visit to Prague, he met Eduard Benes, the Prime Minister, and Jan Masaryk, son of the President; at the same time he came into contact with officials at the Czech Finance Ministry. His business relations in Prague developed further when, in 1934, Spears became chairman of the British Bata shoe company, which, in turn, was part of the international concern of the same name. He later became a director of the merchants, J. Fisher, which had trade links with Czechoslovakia, and a director of a Czech steel works. Yet his business successes found no favour with certain members of the Conservative Party – especially those with anti-Semitic views. Duff Cooper said of him: \"He's the most unpopular man in the House. Don't trust him: he'll let you down in the end.\" \n\nHis visits to Czechoslovakia and friendship with its political figures strengthened his resolve to bolster support for the young republic in both London and Paris. He was violently opposed to the Munich agreement of 1938, which saw the Sudetenland handed over to Germany. When he heard the news of the occupation, he wept openly and declared that he had never felt so ashamed and heartbroken. His views brought him into opposition with Conservatives who were broadly in favour of the Munich agreement. Yet it cannot be denied that there was an element of self-interest in his espousal of the Czech cause – he stood to lose his business interests and an annual income of some £2,000 if the country broke up.\n\nSpears was twice a member of parliament (MP) – from 1922 to 1924 at Loughborough and from 1931 to 1945 at Carlisle. His pro-French views in the Commons earned him the nickname of 'the Member for Paris'.\n\nIn December 1921, Spears was adopted at Loughborough as the parliamentary candidate for the National Liberal Party. He was elected unopposed in 1922 because the Labour candidate had failed to hand in his nomination papers in time, and the Conservatives had agreed not to put up a candidate to oppose him. With Winston Churchill in hospital and unable to campaign at Dundee, Spears and his wife took on the job, but Churchill was defeated. As a gesture of friendship, Spears offered to give up his seat at Loughborough – an offer which Churchill declined. His maiden speech, in February 1923, was critical of both the Foreign Office and the Embassy in Paris. He spoke out against the French occupation of the Ruhr in the House of Commons later the same month. In December, there was another election, with Spears retaining his seat as a National Liberal. However, at the election in October 1924, he was beaten into third place by the Conservative and Labour candidates. There followed two further attempts – both unsuccessful. The first was at a by-election at Bosworth in 1927, then at Carlisle in June 1929.\n\nAt the General Election in October 1931, Spears stood as a National Conservative candidate and was elected Member of Parliament for Carlisle. In June 1935, Ramsay MacDonald resigned as Prime Minister of the National Government to be succeeded by the Conservative, Stanley Baldwin. At the general election in November 1935, he again stood as a National Conservative candidate at Carlisle and was returned with a reduced majority. At Spears' house in 1934, there was held the first meeting of a cross-party group which would later become the European Study Group. Its members included Robert Boothby, Joshiah Wedgwood and Clement Attlee. Spears became its chairman in 1936; it would become a focus for those MPs who were suspicious of the European policies of Neville Chamberlain's government.\n\n\"Liaison 1914\", was published in September 1930 with a foreword by Winston Churchill. This personal account of his experiences as a liaison officer from July to September 1914 was well received. The preface states: 'The object of this book is to contribute something to the true story of the war, and to vindicate the role of the British Expeditionary Force in 1914.' As far as the French were concerned, Charles Lanrezac came in for heavy criticism but there was praise for Marshals Franchet d'Esperey and Joseph Joffre. On the British side, Spears wrote favourably of General Macdonough, who, as a colonel, had recruited him for military intelligence in 1909, and of Field Marshal Sir John French. \"Liaison 1914\" describes vividly the horrors of war – the shoeless refugees, the loss of comrades and the devastated landscape. Two years later, a French translation was also successful, the only dissent coming from the son of General Lanrezac, who denied Spears' account of his father's rudeness to Sir John French. The French politician Paul Reynaud, who would later serve briefly as Prime Minister of France from 21 March to 16 June 1940, took the book as an illustration of how France must not allow herself to become separated from Britain. \"Liaison 1914\" was published again in the US in May 1931 and received high praise.\n\nIn 1939 Spears published \"Prelude to Victory\", an account of the early months of 1917, containing a famous account of the Calais Conference in which Lloyd George had attempted to place the British forces under the command of General Nivelle, and culminating in the Battle of Arras. With war looming once again, Spears wrote that given time constraints he had chosen to concentrate on the period with the greatest lessons for Anglo-French relations. The book also contains a foreword by Winston Churchill, stating that Spears had not, in his view, been entirely fair to Lloyd George's wish to see Britain abstain from major offensives until the Americans were present in force.\n\nSpears became a member of the so-called 'Eden Group' of anti-appeasement backbench MPs. This group, known disparagingly by the Conservative whips as 'The Glamour Boys', formed around Anthony Eden when he had resigned as Foreign Secretary in February 1938 in protest at the opening of negotiations with Italy by the Prime Minister, Neville Chamberlain. Given his long-standing friendship with Winston Churchill, it was not surprising that Spears also joined the latter's group of anti-appeasers, known as 'The Old Guard'. Both groups called for rearmament in the face of Nazi threats.\n\nIn August 1939, with war looming, Spears accompanied Winston Churchill to eastern France on a visit to the Maginot Line. In Strasbourg, he had the idea of floating mines linked together by cables down the Rhine – an action to be carried out on the declaration of war to damage bridges. Initially sceptical about the plan, Churchill would later approve it under the code name of Operation Royal Marine, but claim that it had been his own idea.\n\nDuring the Phoney War, Spears favoured a hawkish policy; lamenting that Britain and France were not doing 'anything more warlike than dropping leaflets'. He urged active support for the Poles and wanted Germany to be bombed; he was set to speak in the House in this vein but was dissuaded – much to his later regret.\n\nAs Chairman of the Anglo-French Committee of the House of Commons, he fostered links with his friends across the Channel, and in October 1939 led a delegation of MPs on a visit to the Chamber of Deputies of France when they were taken to the Maginot Line.\n\nFour months later, Spears was sent to France to check on Operation Royal Marine for Winston Churchill, returning with him in April. Thousands of mines were to be released into the Rhine by the Royal Navy to destroy bridges and disrupt river traffic. The operation was vetoed by the French for fear of reprisals, but a postponement was finally agreed.\n\nOn 10 May 1940, Operation Royal Marine was launched, producing the results that Spears had prophesied. However, by then the German blitzkrieg was underway and the success, as Churchill noted, was lost in the 'deluge of disaster' that was the fall of France.\n\nOn 22 May 1940, Spears was summoned to 10 Downing Street. With British and French forces retreating before the German Blitzkrieg, and confused and contradictory reports arriving from across the Channel, Winston Churchill had decided to send Spears as his personal representative to Paul Reynaud, the Prime Minister of France, who was also acting as Minister of Defence. Three days later, having managed to find the various pieces of his uniform which he had not worn since leaving the army in 1919, he left by plane for Paris holding the rank of major general.\n\nDuring the chaos and confusion of the allied retreat, Spears continued to meet senior French political and military figures. He put forward the view that tanks could be halted by blowing up buildings; he also urged that prefects should not leave their departments without first ensuring that all petrol had been destroyed. On 26 May, he met Marshal Philippe Pétain; the old man reminisced about their time together during the First World War and 'treated him like a son'. Yet it seemed that the Marshal 'in his great age, epitomised the paralysis of the French people'. He became aware of the difficulties of re-creating a liaison organisation; in 1917 his mission had been established over several years. Starting again from scratch, the task seemed 'as impossible as to recall the dead'.\n\nDuring a visit to London on Sunday 26 May, the French Prime Minister Paul Reynaud had reported to Churchill the view of the new Commander-in-Chief General Maxime Weygand that the struggle had become hopeless. On 27 May, Churchill demanded an immediate report from Spears, who was told to resist such defeatism. Reynaud referred to 'mortal danger' with reference to a possible attack by the Italians, who had not yet entered the war; Spears' view was that the French army in the Alps was strong and that the only danger from the Italians would be if they interfered with the transport of troops from North Africa. Yet perversely, Italian intervention might be good for allied morale: 'our combined fleets would whip them around the Mediterranean'. Reynaud and Spears argued, the former calling for more British air support, the latter, exasperated, asking, \"Why don't you import Finns and Spaniards to show the people how to resist an invader?\" He went on to compare unfavourably the spirit of Paris in 1940 with that which he had known in 1914. That evening, Spears and the British Ambassador were summoned to the Ministry of War – news of the sudden Belgian surrender had infuriated Reynaud, Pétain and Weygand; Spears was briefly encouraged, but then irritated by Weygand's criticism of Lord Gort, the commander of the British Expeditionary Force. At the end of the day, Spears noted that he 'sensed a break in the relationship between the two nations; they were 'no longer one'.\n\nOn 28 May, Reynaud asked the British Ambassador, Sir Ronald Hugh Campbell and Spears for their view regarding a direct appeal for help to the USA. Sir Ronald declined to comment, but Spears said it had no chance of success; America would not declare war overnight and, in any case, it was not within the President's power. The prospect of an attempted German invasion across the Channel was of some comfort to Reynaud for it would give the French breathing space. Far from feeling intimidated, Spears welcomed the prospect: 'it did not even occur to me that we could not deal successfully with an attempted invasion. It would be wonderful indeed if the Nazi forces ventured on our own element, the sea'. During a discussion with Georges Mandel (Interior Minister, and one of the few hawks in the French Cabinet), he was told that Lebrun, the President of the Republic was weeping with despair. Mandel reported the criticism of Weygand and General Joseph Vuillemin (Commander of the French air force) over insufficient British air support; Vuillemin doubted that his air force could withstand the losses it was sustaining.\n\nOn 31 May 1940, Churchill flew to Paris with Clement Attlee and Generals John Dill (Chief of the Imperial General Staff) and \"Pug\" Ismay for a meeting of the Anglo French Supreme War Council to discuss the deteriorating military situation with a French delegation consisting of Reynaud, Pétain and Weygand. Three main points were considered: Narvik, the Dunkirk evacuation and the prospect of an Italian invasion of France. Spears did not take part in the discussions but was present 'taking voluminous notes'. It was agreed that British and French forces at Narvik be evacuated without delay – France urgently needed the manpower. Spears was impressed with the way that Churchill dominated the meeting. Dunkirk was the main topic, the French pointing out that 'out of 200,000 British 150,000 had been evacuated, whereas out of 200,000 Frenchmen only 15,000 had been taken off'. Churchill promised that now British and French soldiers would leave together 'bras dessus, bras dessous' – arm in arm. Italian entry into the war seemed imminent, with Churchill urging the bombing of the industrial north by British aircraft based in southern France while at the same time trying to gauge whether the French feared retaliation. Spears guessed that he was trying to assess the French will to fight. With the agenda completed, Churchill spoke passionately about the need for the two countries to fight on, or 'they would be reduced to the status of slaves for ever'. Spears was moved 'by the emotion that surged from Winston Churchill in great torrents'.\n\nDuring discussions after the meeting, a group formed around Churchill, Pétain and Spears. One of the French officials mentioned the possibility of France seeking a separate peace. Speaking to Pétain, Spears pointed out that such an event would provoke a blockade of France by Britain and the bombardment of all French ports in German hands. Churchill declared that Britain would fight on whatever happened.\n\nOn 7 June, with the Germans advancing on Paris, Spears flew to London in Churchill's personal aircraft bearing a personal message from Reynaud to the British Prime Minister. The French were requesting British divisions, and fighter squadrons to be based in France. In reply, Spears had inquired how many French troops were being transferred from North Africa. In London, he was asked whether the French would, as Clémenceau had said, \"Fight outside Paris, inside Paris, behind Paris.\" His view was that they would not permit the destruction of that beautiful city, but this was contradicted on 11 June by a French government spokesman who told the \"Daily Telegraph\" that Paris would never be declared an open city. (The following day General Weygand issued orders declaring that the capital was not to be defended.)\n\n On 11 June, Spears returned to France with Churchill, Eden, Generals Dill and Ismay and other staff officers. A meeting of the Anglo French Supreme War Council had been arranged with Reynaud, who had been forced to leave Paris, at Briare near Orleans, which was now the HQ of General Weygand. Also present was General Charles de Gaulle; Spears had not met him before and was impressed with his bearing. As wrangling continued over the level of support from Britain, Spears suddenly became aware that 'the battle of France was over and that no one believed in miracles'. The next day Weygand's catastrophic account of the military situation reinforced his pessimism. Despite assurances from Admiral François Darlan, the British were worried that the powerful French fleet might fall into German hands. With the conference drawing to a close, it dawned on Spears that the two countries were 'within sight of a cross-roads at which the destinies of the two nations might divide'.\n\nHe remained at Briare after Churchill had left for London on 12 June; later that day he argued with Marshal Pétain, who maintained that an armistice with Germany was now inevitable, complaining that the British had left France to fight alone. Spears referred to Churchill's words of defiance at the meeting, feeling that some of the French might remain in the struggle if they could be made to believe that Britain would fight on. The Marshal replied, \"You cannot beat Hitler with words.\" He began to feel estrangement from Pétain, whose attitude, for the first time in their relationship, savoured of hostility. His concern was now to link up with the Ambassador, Sir Ronald Hugh Campbell, and he set out by car for Tours. On the way they drove through crowds of refugees, many of whom had become stranded when their cars ran out of fuel. At the Chateau de Chissey high above the River Cher, he found Reynaud and his ministers struggling to govern France, but with insufficient telephone lines and in makeshift accommodation. Again he met de Gaulle, 'whose courage was keen and clear, born of love of, and inspired by, his country'. Later in the day, he heard to his astonishment that Reynaud had left for Tours because Churchill was flying over for another meeting. In the confusion, neither Spears nor Sir Ronald had been informed. Fearful that he might not arrive in time, he set off at once along roads choked with refugees.\n\n What would prove to be the final meeting of the Anglo French Supreme War Council took place at the Préfecture in Tours on 13 June. When Spears arrived, the British delegation – Churchill, Lord Halifax, Lord Beaverbrook, Sir Alexander Cadogan and General 'Pug' Ismay – were already there. The French Prime Minister, Paul Reynaud, was accompanied by Paul Baudoin, a member of the War Committee. Spears found the atmosphere quite different from that at Briare, where Churchill had expressed good will, sympathy and sorrow; now it was like a business meeting, with the British keenly appraising the situation from its own point of view. Reynaud declared that unless immediate help was assured by the US, the French government would have to give up the struggle. He acknowledged that the two countries had agreed never to conclude a separate peace – but France was physically incapable of carrying on. The news was received by the British with shock and horror; Spears' feelings were expressed by the exclamation marks which he scrawled in his notes. Spears noted Churchill's determination as he said, \"We must fight, we will fight, and that is why we must ask our friends to fight on.\" Prime Minister Reynaud acknowledged that Britain would continue the war, affirming that France would also continue the struggle from North Africa, if necessary – but only if there were a chance of success. That success could come only if America were prepared to join the fray. The French leader called for British understanding, asking again for France to be released from her obligation not to conclude a separate peace now that she could do no more. Spears passed a note to Churchill proposing an adjournment – a suggestion that was taken up.\n\nThe British walked around the sodden garden of the prefecture, Spears reporting that Reynaud's mood had changed since that morning, when he had spoken of his resistance to the 'armisticers'. He told Churchill that he was certain that de Gaulle was staunch, but that General Weygand looked upon anyone who wished to fight as an enemy. Beaverbrook urged Churchill to repeat what he had already said – namely that U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt be telegraphed and American help sought. When the proceedings were resumed, it was agreed that both countries would send identical telegrams. It was on this note that the conference ended.\n\nAfter the meeting, de Gaulle told Spears that Paul Baudoin had been telling journalists that Churchill had said that \"he would understand if France concluded a separate armistice\" ... \"\"que l'Angleterre comprendrait si la France faisait un armistice et une paix séparée\"\". Spears realised there had been a linguistic misunderstanding. When Reynaud spoke (in French) about a separate armistice, Churchill had said, \"\"Je comprends\"\" (I understand) in the sense of 'I understand what you say', not in the sense of 'I agree'. Just as Churchill was about to take off for Britain, Spears obtained his assurance that he had never given consent to a separate armistice. But the damage had been done and, on 23 June, the words would be quoted by Admiral Darlan, who signalled all French warships saying that the British Prime Minister had declared that 'he understood' the necessity for France to bring the struggle to an end'.\n\nThe day ended in confusion – Churchill flew back to London without speaking to the French cabinet, as had been promised by Reynaud. The ministers were dismayed and angry; Spears was depressed, realising that 'an opportunity that might not recur had been missed'. He was at a loss to understand why a meeting had not taken place – had Reynaud simply forgotten? Did Reynaud wish to explain the situation to the ministers himself? In any event, his ministers were disillusioned and felt abandoned. Spears believed that this event played its part in swaying the majority of the cabinet towards surrender. He was sure that 'by the night of 13 June, the possibility of France remaining in the war had almost disappeared'. The only hope rested on the decision of President Roosevelt – would America now join the war?\n\nOn 14 June, Spears left Tours to look for Reynaud and his government, which had moved to Bordeaux. On the way, he was conscious that the attitude of people to the sight of a British uniform had changed – they were morose if not hostile. When he reached Bordeaux, he learnt that Paris had fallen that morning. Spears found Reynaud – he had not received a satisfactory reply from Washington but was still clinging to the hope. Spears found him worn out, forlorn and undecided. The British consulate was besieged with crowds of would-be refugees seeking passage out of France.\n\nThe next day he clashed with Camille Chautemps, Vice-President of the cabinet, upbraiding him for his defeatism and praising the spirit of the French soldiers that he had known during the First World War. He later spoke to Roland de Margerie, Reynaud's \"Chef de cabinet\" and raised the matter of several hundred German pilots who were prisoners of the French, asking that they be handed over to the British. However, there was much confusion and telephone communications were difficult even within the city of Bordeaux itself. Spears now had misgivings about Reynaud's determination to stay in the war, if necessary from French North Africa. He was outraged that despite the critical situation, the French Commander in Chief in North Africa was opposed to receiving troops from France. There was insufficient accommodation, no spare weapons, there was a shortage of doctors; moreover the climate was rather warm for young Frenchmen at this season! In Spears' view this was monstrous; why did Reynaud not dismiss the obstructionist general? He asked why the idea of forming a redoubt in Brittany had been dropped and why Reynaud did not dismiss General Weygand for his defeatism. Margerie replied that the people had faith in Weygand and that he also had the support of Pétain. Continuing in the same vein, Spears poured cold water on the notion that America might join the war. Spears and the ambassador sent a telegram to London explaining that everything now hung on an assurance from the US, adding that they would to their utmost to obtain the scuttling of the French fleet. Their final words were, \"We have little confidence in anything now.\" They heard that Marshal Pétain would resign if American help was not forthcoming; Spears concluded that Reynaud would not continue in the face of combined opposition from the Marshal and Weygand. He longed for the presence of Churchill, which would have been 'worth more than millions in gold could buy'.\n\nSpears and the Ambassador were called following a meeting of the cabinet. The linguistic confusion from Tours returned to haunt them as Reynaud began, \"As Mr Churchill stated at Tours he would agree that France should sue for an armistice...\" Spears stopped writing and objected, \"I cannot take that down for it is untrue.\" The minutes of the Tours meeting were produced and Spears was vindicated. Reynaud wrote a message to Churchill, stating that France sought leave of Britain to inquire about armistice terms; if Britain declined, he would resign. At this point an aide handed him Roosevelt's refusal to declare war – Reynaud was in despair. He did, however, guarantee that any successor would not surrender the fleet in an armistice. Spears felt sympathy for the French army, but contempt for Weygand, 'a hysterical, egocentric old man'.\n\nBy 16 June, Spears and Sir Ronald Campbell were sure that once the French had asked for an armistice they would never fight again. With regard to the French Empire and the fleet, there was a possibility that if German armistice terms were too harsh, the Empire might rebel against them, even if metropolitan France succumbed. It did not occur to them that Hitler would split France into two zones thus dividing it against itself. Early the same morning, Reynaud, nervously exhausted and depressed, asked again for France to be relieved of its undertaking not to make a separate peace. The British took a hard line, pointing out that the solemn undertaking had been drawn up to meet the existing contingency; in any case, France [with its overseas possessions and fleet] was still in a position to carry on. While these top-level discussions were being held, Hélène de Portes, Reynaud's mistress repeatedly entered the room, much to the irritation of Spears and the Ambassador. Spears felt that her pernicious influence had done Reynaud great harm.\n\nShortly before lunch a telegram arrived from London agreeing that France could seek armistice terms provided that the French fleet was sailed forthwith for British harbours pending negotiations. Spears and the Ambassador felt this would be taken as an insult by the French Navy and an indication of distrust. Reynaud received the news with derision – if Britain wanted France to continue the war from North Africa, how could they ask her fleet to go to British harbours? He had spoken by telephone with Churchill and asked Spears to arrange a meeting with the British Prime Minister, at sea somewhere off Brittany. The meeting, however, never took place as he preferred to go in a French warship and this never materialised. As the day wore on, Spears became more aware of defeatism – but the hard-liners tended to be socialists. His British uniform struck a false note and people avoided him.\n\nOn the afternoon of 16 June, Spears and the Ambassador met Reynaud to convey a message from London – it would be in the interest of both countries for the French fleet to be moved to British ports; it was assumed that every effort would be made to transfer the air force to North Africa or to Britain; Polish, Belgian and Czech troops in France should be sent to North Africa. While they were arguing with increasing acrimony about the fleet, a call came through from de Gaulle, who was in London. The British proposition was nothing less than a Declaration of Union – 'France and Great Britain shall no longer be two nations, but one Franco-British Union. Every citizen of France will enjoy immediate citizenship of Great Britain; every British subject will become a citizen of France.' Spears became 'transfixed with amazement'; Reynaud was exulted. When the news got out, hard-liners such as Georges Mandel were pleased and relieved. The proposal would be put before the French cabinet. Spears was optimistic that it would be accepted for how could it be that of the countries fighting Germany, France should be the only one to give up the struggle, when she possessed an Empire second only to our own and a fleet whole and entire, the strongest after ours in Europe'. Yet he joked that the only common denominator of an Anglo-French Parliament would be 'an abysmal ignorance of each other's language'!\n\nWhile the cabinet meeting was taking place, Spears and the Ambassador heard that Churchill, Clement Attlee, Sir Archibald Sinclair, the three Chiefs of Staff and others would arrive off Brittany in a warship the next day at noon for talks with the French. However, the French cabinet rejected the offer of union; Reynaud would be resigning. One minister had commented that the proposal would make France into a British Dominion. Spears, on the other hand, felt the rejection 'was like stabbing a friend bent over you in grief and affection'. Churchill and his delegation were already in the train at Waterloo station, when news of the rejection came through. He returned to Downing Street 'with a heavy heart'.\n\nIn Bordeaux, Spears and Sir Ronald Campbell went to see Reynaud at his dimly-lit offices. According to Spears, he was approached in the darkness by de Gaulle, who said that Weygand intended to arrest him. Reynaud told the British that Pétain would be forming a government. Spears noted that it would consist entirely of defeatists and that the French Prime Minister had 'the air of a man relieved of a great burden'. Incredibly Reynaud asked when Churchill would be arriving off Brittany in the morning. Spears was short with him: \"Tomorrow there will be a new government and you will no longer speak for anyone.\" However, he later came to realise that Reynaud had never double-crossed his ally, but had done his best to hold the alliance while fighting against men stronger than he was. His fault lay in his inability to pick good men. After the meeting, Spears found de Gaulle and decided to help him escape to Britain. He telephoned Churchill and got his somewhat reluctant agreement to bring over both de Gaulle and Georges Mandel. The latter, however, declined to come, opting instead to go to North Africa. It was arranged that de Gaulle would come to Spears' hotel at 7 o'clock in the morning of the following day.\n\nOn 17 June, de Gaulle and his ADC, Lieutenant Geoffroy de Courcel, went with Spears to the airfield on the pretext of seeing him off. After a delay while de Gaulle's baggage was secured, the Dragon Rapide took off for Britain. Winston Churchill wrote that Spears personally rescued de Gaulle from France just before the German conquest, literally pulling the Frenchman into his plane as it was taking off from Bordeaux for Britain. When they had reached Britain, de Gaulle gave Spears a signed photograph with the inscription, \"To General Spears, witness, ally, friend.\" \n\nDe Gaulle's famous Appeal of 18 June was transmitted in French by the BBC and repeated on 22 June, the text having then been translated into English for the benefit of 10 Downing Street by Nancy Maurice, Spears's secretary. Towards the end of June 1940, Spears was appointed head of the British government's mission to de Gaulle, whose headquarters were finally established at 4 Carlton Gardens in London.\n\n Over 100,000 French troops were evacuated from Dunkirk during Operation Dynamo between 26 May and 4 June 1940, but the majority returned to France from ports in the west of England within a few days. On 3 July, Spears had the unpleasant task of informing de Gaulle of the British ultimatum to the French ships at anchor in the North African port of Mers-el-Kebir; this would result in the first phase of Operation Catapult, an action which led to the loss many French warships and the deaths of 1,297 French seamen. The attack caused great hostility towards Britain and made it even more difficult for de Gaulle to recruit men to his cause. De Gaulle, while regarding the naval action as 'inevitable', was initially uncertain whether he could still collaborate with Britain. Spears tried to encourage him and at the end of July in an unsuccessful attempt to rally support, flew to the internment camp at Aintree racecourse near Liverpool, where French seamen who had been in British ports were taken as part of Operation Catapult. In the event, de Gaulle had only some 1,300 men at his disposal in Britain, the majority being those who had recently been evacuated from Narvik following the Norwegian Campaign.\n\nWinston Churchill pressed for action by the Free French to turn French colonies from Vichy. The target was Dakar in West Africa; the main reason being that it could become a base threatening shipping in the Atlantic. A show of force by the Royal Navy was planned coupled with a landing by de Gaulle's troops which, it was hoped, would convince the Vichy defenders to defect. Spears accompanied de Gaulle on the mission, Operation Menace, with orders to report directly to the Prime Minister. However, security had been lax and the destination was said to be common talk among French troops in London.\n\nWhile the task force was en route, it came in sight of a French fleet – including three cruisers – on its way from Toulon to Douala to recapture French Equatorial Africa which had declared for de Gaulle. Surprised, the French fleet sailed for Dakar instead, thus making the outcome of the expedition much more uncertain. Churchill was now of the opinion that the project should be abandoned, but de Gaulle insisted and a telegram from Spears to the Prime Minister stated, \"I wish to insist to you personally and formally that the plan for the constitution of French Africa through Dakar should be upheld and carried out.\"\n\nOn 23 September 1940, a landing by de Gaulle's troops was repulsed and, in the ensuing naval engagement, four British capital ships were damaged while the Vichy French lost two destroyers and a submarine. Finally Churchill ordered the operation to be called off. The Free French had been snubbed by their countrymen; de Gaulle and Spears were deeply depressed, the latter fearing for his own reputation – and rightly so. The \"Daily Mirror\" wrote: “Dakar has claims to rank with the lowest depths of imbecility to which we have yet sunk.” De Gaulle was further discredited with the Americans and began to criticise Spears openly, telling Churchill that he was 'intelligent but egotistical and hampering because of his unpopularity at the War Office etc.'. John Colville, Churchill's private secretary, wrote on 27 October 1940, “It is true that Spears' emphatic telegrams persuaded the Cabinet to revert to the Dakar scheme after it had, on the advice of the Chiefs of Staff, been abandoned.” \n\nStill acting as Churchill's personal representative to the Free French, Spears left England with de Gaulle for the Levant via Cairo in March 1941. They were received by British officers, including General Archibald Wavell, the British Commander in Chief Middle East, and also General Georges Catroux, the former Governor General of French Indo-China, who had been relieved of his post by the Vichy France regime of Marshal Philippe Pétain.\n\nWavell, the British Commander-in-Chief, wanted to negotiate with the Governor of French Somaliland, which was still loyal to Vichy France, and lift the blockade of that territory in exchange for the right to send supplies to British forces in Abyssinia via the railway from the coast to Addis Ababa. However, de Gaulle and Spears argued in favour of firmness, the former arguing that a detachment of his Free French should be sent to confront the Vichy troops in the hope that the latter would be persuaded to change sides. Wavell agreed, but was later overruled by Anthony Eden, who feared an open clash between the two French factions. British vacillations persisted against the advice of Spears and to the extreme irritation of de Gaulle.\n\nMore serious differences between Britain and de Gaulle soon emerged over Syria and Lebanon. De Gaulle and Spears held that it was essential to deny the Germans access to Vichy air bases in Syria from where they would threaten the Suez Canal. However, Wavell was reluctant to stretch his limited forces and did not want to risk a clash with the French in Syria.\n\nThe French in Syria had initially been in favour of continuing the struggle against Germany but had been snubbed by Wavell, who declined the offer of cooperation from three French divisions. By the time de Gaulle reached the Levant, Vichy had replaced any Frenchmen who were sympathetic towards Britain.\n\nHaving left the Middle East with de Gaulle on a visit to French Equatorial Africa, Spears had his first major row with the general who, in a fit of pique caused by 'some quite minor action by the British government', suddenly declared that the landing ground at Fort Lamy would no longer be available to British aircraft transiting Africa. Spears countered furiously by threatening to summon up British troops to take over the aerodrome and the matter blew over.\n\nDe Gaulle told Spears that the Vichy authorities in the Middle East were acting against the Free French and the British. French ships blockaded by the British at Alexandria were permitted to transmit coded messages which were anything but helpful to the British cause. Their crews were allowed to take leave in the Levant States where they stoked up anti-British feeling. They also brought back information about British naval and troop movements which would find its way back to Vichy. In \"Fulfilment of a Mission\" Spears writes bitterly about how Britain was providing pay for Vichy sailors who were allowed to remit money back to France. Their pay would, of course, be forfeited if they joined de Gaulle. However, his biggest bone of contention – one over which he frequently clashed with the Foreign Office and the Admiralty – was that a French ship, \"SS Providence\", was allowed to sail unchallenged between Beirut and Marseille. It carried contraband 'and a living cargo of French soldiers and officials [prisoners] who were well disposed to us or who wished to continue the fight at our side'. \n\nDe Gaulle and Spears held the view that the British at GHQ in Cairo were unwilling to accept that they had been duped over the level of collaboration between Germany and the Vichy-controlled states in the Levant. The British military authorities feared that a blockade of the Levant would cause hardship and thus antagonise the civilian population. However, Spears pointed out that the Vichy French were already unpopular with the local population – ordinary people resented being lorded over by defeated foreigners. He urged aggressive propaganda aimed at the Vichy French in support of the Free French and British policy. He felt that the Free French would be considered as something different as they were allies of Britain and enjoyed the dignity of fighting their enemy instead of submitting to him.\n\nOn 13 May 1941, the fears of de Gaulle and Spears were realised when German aircraft landed in Syria in support of the Iraqi rebel Rashid Ali, who was opposed to the pro-British government. On 8 June, 30,000 troops (Indian Army, British, Australian, Free French and the Trans-Jordanian Frontier Force) invaded Lebanon and Syria in what was known as Operation Exporter. There was stiff resistance from the Vichy French and Spears commented bitterly on 'that strange class of Frenchmen who had developed a vigour in defeat which had not been apparent when they were defending their country'.\n\nSpears soon became aware of the poor liaison which existed between the British Embassy in Cairo, the armed forces, Palestine and the Sudan. The arrival in Cairo in July 1941 of Oliver Lyttelton, who was a Minister of State and a member of the War Cabinet, improved matters considerably. The Middle East Defence Council was also formed – a body that Spears would later join.\n\nIn January 1942, having received the title of KBE, Spears was appointed the first British minister to Syria and Lebanon. Beirut still holds his name on one of its major streets, Rue Spears.\n\nSpears lost his parliamentary seat in the 1945 General Election, which saw the Conservative Party defeated in a landslide. The same year he accepted the position of chairman of the commercial firm Ashanti Goldfields. From 1948 to 1966 he was chairman of the Institute of Directors, frequently visiting West Africa. Spears published several books during the post-war period: \"Assignment to Catastrophe\" (1954);. \"Two Men who Saved France\" (1966), and his own autobiography, \"The Picnic Basket\" (1967).\n\nSpears was created a baronet, of Warfield, Berkshire, on 30 June 1953. He died on 27 January 1974 at the age of 87 at the Heatherwood Hospital at Ascot.\nA memorial service at St. Margaret's, Westminster followed on 7 March. The trumpeters of the 11th Hussars sounded a fanfare; the French and Lebanese ambassadors were in attendance. General Sir Edward Louis Spears lies buried at Warfield alongside the graves of his first wife, May, and his son, Michael.\n\nIn the foreword to \"Fulfilment of a Mission\", the account by Spears of his service in the Levant, John Terraine, writes of 'the tragedy of his life'. By this he meant that someone who should have been a warm friend of de Gaulle had become an intractable and spiteful enemy. His boyhood had been spent in France. He was happy in France, he liked the spirit of the people. He liked the sailors of Brittany and the peasants of Burgundy. He understood their wit. It amused him to talk to them and to be with them. It had been a very bitter experience to find himself opposed and having to oppose French policy so often. That, he said, had been the tragedy of his life. Terraine comments further, \"If Mr Graham Greene had not already made good use of it, the title of \"Fulfilment of a Mission\" might just as well have been, \"The End of an Affair.\"\n\nIn October 1939, he led a delegation of British MPs to France and spoke on French Radio. After the broadcast, listeners protested that his speech had been read for him because 'an Englishman without an accent did not exist'! In February 1940, he gave a lecture on the British war effort to a large and distinguished audience in Paris. Fluent though he was, he nevertheless felt it would be helpful to attend lessons with an elocution teacher who coached leading French actors. It must be supposed that he also spoke some German thanks to the two years which he had spent at a boarding school in Germany.\n\nDespite his linguistic competence, Spears hated interpreting. He realised that it required qualifications beyond a mere knowledge of two languages. At the conference at Tours on 13 June 1940, he had the awesome responsibility of translating Paul Reynaud's French into English and Winston Churchill's English into French. The final phase of the Battle of France and the destiny of two nations were at stake; it promised to be the gravest of the meetings so far held between the two governments. Furthermore, he was aware that others in the room were completely conversant with both languages and that most of them would have thought of the word that he was searching for before he had found it.\n\nSir Edward Spears appears as an interviewee in numerous episodes of the 1964 documentary series \"The Great War\", especially in reference to the major roles he played as liaison to the French Fifth Army in the episodes \"Our hats we doff to General Joffre\", detailing the Great Retreat to the Marne and \"This business may last a long time\", detailing the First Battle of the Marne and the subsequent Race to the Sea. He appeared in the 1969 French documentary \"The Sorrow and the Pity\". He also appeared near the end of his life, in the episode \"France Falls\" of the landmark 1974 documentary series, \"The World at War\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123477", "title": "Gandara, Samar", "text": "Gandara, Samar\n\n', officially the ' \"(Waray: Bungto han Gandara)\", is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town was formerly named Bangahon, but its population was resettled to its current location on September 29, 1902. After settling in its new location, the name Gandara was given to it in commemoration of the former Governor General José de la Gándara y Navarro.\n\nThe municipality of Gandara is known for its products such as \"queseo\", \"tablea\", \"tinapa\" (smoked fish), \"kalinayan\" rice, rootcrops and peanuts exported in the entire region of Eastern Visayas and to any point of the Philippine archipelago.\n• Maria Diana’s Chapel\n\nGandara is the home also of the well-known corpse of Maria Diana Alvarez believed to be miraculous by the Gandareños.\n\n• Karabaw Festival\n\nA festival which pays tribute to the draft animal that helps people till their farms and provides milk for Gandara’s local white cheese delicacy called “Queseo”. The festival itself has proven a lot in terms of creativity and uniqueness. In fact, it has already won 7 times in the Samar Day Celebration observed every August 11 where all municipalities and cities in Samar gather at the provincial capitol in Catbalogan City to perform and compete.\n\n• Annual Fluvial Parade\n\nThe traditional fluvial procession along the river of Gandara held every month of September is a significant and mainstay event of the yearly fiesta celebration.\n\n• Bangahon Church Ruins\n\nThe Ruins of Bangahon is a historical landmark near the right fork of Gandara river. It was once a town during the revolutionary period, but was abandoned by the old residents who later found the present town of Gandara. The site was the original homage to St. Michael the Archangel, the patron saint of the townspeople, located in Brgy. Bangahon, Gandara, Samar. The said place of worship was ruined during the Pulajanes-American war. It was noted for its Bangahon Bell \"(Lingganay).\" This bell was sequestered by the Americans on September 29, 1901 at Balangiga. The bell of Bangahon church is believed to be one of those Balangiga bells.\n\nDuring the 9th century, after the Mesopotamian exploration the Hindus explored the Cambaye Island, they bring Sabai Grass seedlings, Negritos and the Hindus help together to grow the Grass, when the grass are ripe enough they harvest it and sundried it, Sabai fibres were extracted from Sabai Grasses, they weave the dried grass and turn it into dresses by using a catgut as a weaver.\n\nOn the 13th century an Arabian-British explorer built and structured this sea farer guide from an Scree with the help of a Negrito inhabitants located nearby with China White as an ingredient as building material, it is lit with a Western Incandescent lamp and powered by a Baghdad Carbon Cell, the said battery is charged by sun at day.\nGandæra's colonial past is evident from the solitary watchtower, the Friars returned after the remaining crew of Magellan came back from Spain, and situated along the Village called Dapdap and their Shrine called Tinago in 1596, and created a Cabecera called Catbalogan, and the Bangahon Church, the relics of the church and fragmented artworks. Statues of saints are of numbers one of which is the St. Niño (An infant Child) a \"White\" statue carved from wood and being tell that it is a pair of the \"Black\" statue of the St. Niño of Cebu the Magellan remnants they called the Black and White saints. The White statue is being told that a clan \"Correche\" is now being held it privately. Townspeople quarried the stones from Napalisan cliff or scree carried to Dapdap and then formed and constructed the Tinago Shrine and the church from what they called \"Galut\" a clay or \"Feldspar, Kaolinite\" used to make a pot or in a pottery business in Bangahon for the church of Bangahon. These are remnants from the old Gandæra, named Bangahon due to its geographical location in the forked of the Gandara River. \"\"Ginbabanga han wala ug tuo nga salog\"\". The book \"Conquistas de las Islas Filipinas\" by Gaspar de San Agustin the Bangahon states it was already a Pueblo or town in 1729, and was made a parish by the Spanish Jesuits Missionaries with St. Michael the Archangel as patron saint.\n\nThe Eighteenth Century ended with Bangahon at the height of abundance and prosperity being a trading center complemented with its fertile soil producing plentiful and ample harvest every year. Potable water were carried from a balangay with a Natural Spring of Mineral Water now called San Agustin. However, when the American battleships landed at Calbayog on February 9, 1902, the municipal officials of Bangahon prepared an occasion for the American soldiers. The American Scout then told the officials of this Marlboro that they will be donating a Bell and will constructed a school called Harvard Institute. The problem of where to build this landmark to become a new town was solved during a conference of July 25, 1903, at barrio San Pelayo but Dumalo-ong was unanimously chosen due to its ideal location being at the center and midway of the left river, right river and downstreams barrios. The bell or (Lingganay) a misfortune were carried by a barge and accidentally sunked and collide to it near an adobe rock formation before Bangahon going upstream along with the Bell. This bell was sequestered by the Americans on September 29, 1901 at Balangiga. Furthermore, the chosen site was located almost halfway between Calbayog City and Catbalogan City an ambient place for a Harvard Institute. Gandæra's foundation anniversary is February the 29th.\n\nEstablished in February 29, 1904 and named after the surname of Spanish Governor General José de la Gándara y Navarro as a respect by the American Soldier, the first captain was Jose Dionesio Mendiola, who died during the year's cholera epidemic and replaced by Jose Pichon on June 15, 1902, the contact of the American Scout not knowing were will be the bell will come from, nodding as his used attitude, served until June 15, 1903. Succeeded by Ramon Mendiola (1903–1906) who was remembered for celebrating the first Gandæra town fiesta on September 28–29, 1904. From the year 1907, town executives were called Presidents. And the Reyes Clan as Royalty.\n\nThe town's new poblacion was built on some six hectares of farmland donated by Martino M. Reyes. The donation was executed on January 12, 1909. The school site covered by certificate of title no. 95 dated July 20, 1912, and that of the parish under lot no. 146-CAD-444-D dated August 31, 1914, further supported by an extra judicial donation dated March 20, 1915.\n\nArticle 960 dated October 23, 1923, transferred the jurisdiction of baraŋgays Bangon, Buenas Aires, Calanyugan, Cambaye, San Luis, Pangi and Pagsanghan to the Municipality of Tarangnan.\n\nDuring World War II, there are two Mayors in this municipality, Filadelfo Diaz Aliman for the Japanese Government and Teodoro Bisnar for the Philippine Government the Pulahanes (Pulajanes). During the war, the second waorld war, Japanese occupied this town and make the Gavaldon Building their headquarter, all Chinese traders, locals and their offspring were called and enslave them, making them a peasants. Japanese tell one Filadelfo Aliman that this maltreatment is a retaliation on their long aged war the First Sino-Japanese War and the Second Sino-Japanese War, they Chinese (sino) to fight back processed a seasoning called \"Vetsin\" (a powder from a snailshell or “\"tipaka han wawang nga ginpino”\" in Waray that causes the illness called schistosomiasis and told the Filipino public that it is from the Japanese armies even its name is a Japanese word. The Japanese leave and promise and then will constructure a steel bridge value that makes them stand and be courageous because of the Filipino hospitality.\n\nIn December 6, 1987, San Jorge were created as a new municipality respectively out of Gandara. 42 barangays were dissolved by the town of San Jorge including the Gandareños owner of Atigbang Senibaran (Villaleona) to the new town administration.\n\nGandara is politically subdivided into 69 barangays, listed here with its Philippine Standard Geographic Code.\n"}
{"id": "2123478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123478", "title": "Hinabangan", "text": "Hinabangan\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nHinabangan was formed in 1948 from the former municipal districts of Concord and Hinabangan.\n\nHinabangan is politically subdivided into 21 barangays.\n\nHinabangan has 19 public primary and elementary schools:\nHinabangan also has two public high schools:\n\n"}
{"id": "2123479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123479", "title": "Bắc Kạn", "text": "Bắc Kạn\n\nBắc Kạn () is the capital of Bắc Kạn Province, Vietnam. The province's only city, it is bordered by Bạch Thông District to the north, north-east and west and Chợ Mới District to the south-east and south-west.\n\nThe town traces its origins to a fort established in 1880 and upgraded to city on 11 March 2015. It is divided into six wards: , Đức Xuân, Sông Cầu, , Huyền Tụng and and 2 communes: , .\n\nBắc Kạn (chữ nôm: 北𣴓) was established as a fort in 1880 for troops of the Nguyễn government during the 1878 revolt of Li Yung Choï (Vietnamese: Lý Dương Tài) coincident with the Black Flag Army. Following Li's capture and decapitation, the remains of his group reformed under Liu Zhiping (Vietnamese: Lục Chi Bình) and with 5,000 men attacked the fort defended by 300 Annamite soldiers in 1881.\n\nThe town of Bắc Kạn was one of the early headquarters of the Việt Minh in the war against the French. Jean-Étienne Valluy aimed to surround the area and capture the town in Operation Léa between 7 October and 22 December 1947. A parachute drop caught the Việt Minh by surprise and seized letters left on the desk of Ho Chi Minh. Both Ho and Võ Nguyên Giáp escaped only by hiding in camouflaged holes nearby. It was also an area of fighting between the communists and Việt Nam Quốc Dân Đảng armed forces.\n"}
{"id": "2123484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123484", "title": "Jiabong", "text": "Jiabong\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nJiabong was created in 1948 from the barrios of Jiabong, Jia-an, Malino, San Fernando, Casapa, Camorubo-an, Lulugayan, Macabitas Paglayogan, Dogongan, Bayog, and Malobago, formerly part of Catbalogan.\n\nThe name Jiabong is a combination of the terms “Hiya-an” which means a “place of preparation before an attack” and “bong” which is actually “the sound of a canon gun”. According to the legend, during Spanish time, villagers from Motiong, Paranas and San Sebastian fled to Casandig (now Jiabong) to seek refuge from the invading pirates who killed, robbed and held them as captives.\n\nTo rescue the villagers, the Spanish soldiers and guardia civil camped at Casandig and mounted their preparations for an eventual pirate attack. The Spanish soldiers cried “Ensiqueda Fuego, Hia-bong!” as cannons were fired on the invaders. After this victorious fight, remained two words: Jia-bong.\n\nIn 1882, during the Spanish regime in the Philippines, Jiabong was made into a town or municipio. It was made as the cabeza de barangay, incorporating the barangays of Jia-an, San Fernando, Malino, Camarubo-an and the rest of the barangays that were founded later. During the Filipino-American war in 1900 to 1904, Catbalogan City, Samar, the capital town, was placed under military rule. Jiabong became a barrio of Catbalgan from 1905 until June 15, 1948\n\nJiabong became a separate municipality of Samar and got its independence from the Municipality of Catbalogan on October 22, 1948 when Congress approved House Bill No. 1812 into law. Under Republic Act. No. 269. On October 27, 1948 Jiabong was inaugurated as a municipality. President Elpidio Qurino appointed Domingo Jabinal as the Municipal Mayor and Eleuterio Bacarra as the Vice Mayor.\n\nJiabong is politically subdivided into 34 barangays.\n\nJiabong has 27 public primary and elementary schools:\nJiabong also has three public high schools:\n\n"}
{"id": "2123486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123486", "title": "Marabut, Samar", "text": "Marabut, Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIts coast stretches more than twenty kilometers along the San Pedro Bay and Leyte Gulf.\n\nMarabut is politically subdivided into 24 barangays. In 1957, the sitio of Pinana-an was converted into barrio Pinalangga.\n\nDuring the early Spanish Era, the municipality of Marabut was a mere \"sitio\" of Basey, which evolved into a \"barrio\". In 1949, Ysidro M. Ferreras who was then the Mayor of Basey submitted to President Elpidio Quirino a proposal to convert Barrio Santo Niño into a separate municipality. Thus on July 22, 1949, Executive Order No. 247 was signed creating the Municipality of Marabut, named in honor of Congressman Serafin Marabut who was a native of Basey. Ysidro Ferreras was elected as the first municipal mayor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123488", "title": "Matuguinao", "text": "Matuguinao\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMatuguinao were named as a municipal district of Gandara in the year 1948 to 1960 and were converted into a municipality in 1965.\n\nMatuguinao or \"Matugnaw\" is a word that literally means cold. \n\nMatuguinao is politically subdivided into 20 barangays.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123489", "title": "Motiong", "text": "Motiong\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMotiong is politically subdivided into 30 barangays namely as follows:\nLong before the coming of the Americans, there were already local folks inhabited in Motiong, wherein the place was unnamed at that time.\n\nSome of these people went on sea diving to gather oyster for their daily consumption and the rest barter goods such as rice, corn, cassava, taro, yam tubers, sea foods and abaca fibers to other neighboring barrios and municipalities. There were only few local caravans who are traveling in groups aided in defense against bandits as well as helped to improve economies of scale in trade although, only few people have the means to buy commodities.\n\nOne man tried to open one oyster and with great astonishment, he found a lustrous pearl where he called “Mutya”. Believing that the place was full of treasure, the settlers started to name the place “Mutya” which to means “Land of Treasure”.\n\nMariano Sapetin, Valentin Conge, Simon Tingzon Sr., Claudio Tingzon and Antonio Abalos were few people who persuaded to make Motiong an independent town. The reward of their effort was the House Bill No. 1844 by Congressman Tito V. Tizon which was approved as Republic Act No. 290 on June 16, 1948. It separated into another town the barrios of Motiong, Bayog, Uyandic, Calantawan, Sinampigan, Calape, Bonga, Hinicaan, Caluyahan, Malolobog, and Maypangi, formerly part of the town of Wright. Mariano Sapetin and Antonio Uy were appointed as first mayor and vice mayor respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123490", "title": "Pagsanghan, Samar", "text": "Pagsanghan, Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nPagsanghan is municipality located interior of San Agustin, Gandara, Samar along the National Road, and nearby the sea where its name came from. The islet of Bangon and the islet of Cambaye were two-of-two branching river going out to the sea which in local language called Sanga, Guin-sangahan or \"Pinag-sangahan\".\n\nPagsanghan is the trading center of historical missionaries located in Dapdap, Tarangnan, Samar, were religious Jesuits settle.\n\nPagsanghan is politically subdivided into 13 barangays.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123491", "title": "Paranas, Samar", "text": "Paranas, Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt was formerly known as Wright named after American Governor General Luke E. Wright.\n\nMany of the townsfolk work or attend school in nearby Catbalogan City. Trade is also prevalent with Calbayog City farther north.\n\nA part of Paranas is devoted to a nature reserve watershed designated as such by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources.\n\nParanas is politically subdivided into 44 barangays.\n\nA strip of sand bordering along the coast of the Maqueda Bay, nestling at the foot of a hill which shields it from floods and storms was inhibited by a few natives who engaged in fishing and farming. As time went on, the number of people increased. More and better houses were built and a village was farming. So it attracted many people to trade with the natives and to dwell in it.\nThe trees along the line of sand were cut down and a street was laid. The increasing inhabitants built nipa houses on both side of the street. As the village expanded the people opened other streets toward the hill.\nShortly after the occupation of the Spaniards in Catbalogan some of them went to Wright, the newly made village. When they reached the village, the tide was low and many of the natives were along the stony coast picking and gathering shellfish and crabs. The banca headed toward the place where the people settled. One of the Spanish Officials asked for the name of the place or the village in Spanish language. The ignorant native looked boastfully at the over tall stranger. Thinking that the Spaniard was asking for the name of slippery rock which the Spaniard was apparently looking at, the native answered “Palanas”, name of the rock. The Spaniard then pronounced the word “Paranas” instead of palanas and recorded it as the name of the village. They went ashore and organized the village government and appointed its officials under the banner of Spain.\nThe Spanish sovereignty over the village had greatly inspired the natives. The doctrine of Christianity was introduced and the people willingly and readily accepted and believe it. Through the course of time, the village grew to the end and be one of the progressive towns along the shore of the Maqueda Bay. A Catholic church and a convent were erected and a thick high wall around the church site was constructed.\nWhen America succeeded in overthrowing Spain during the Spanish–American War, the Philippines was ceded to her. Paranas was at the height of her glory at that time. In 1890 during the Philippine–American War the Paranasnon were one of these who showed strong resistance against the American Forces. American troops headed by General Curry came sudden and subdue the Revolutionist here in Paranas. Most of the native fled to the mountain. The revolutionist fought hard and bravely. Many American lives were lost here. In one of these encounters General Curry was lost I the midst of the forest where they were the old people of Paranas or Wright.\nGeneral Curry had been in the wilderness for three days and the man who saved him was taken to the United States with him. Due to the hospitality and kindness of the people of Paranas one of General Curry’s savior. General Curry recommended the changed of the name of the town Paranas to Wright in honor of the governor General of the Philippines at that time. Because of its location the town of Wright engage in two main industries:\n\n\nThey engage in farming because on the eastern part of the areas to town are wide vast of land on the western part in a fertile ground for fishing. The wide of land are converted into rice fields both for upland and lowland rice. One unique kind of rice that is so anosmatic and palatable to the town to town to eat is the famous “Kalinayan” an upload rice that is favorable to most of the town folks. Aside from rice, fruits, vegetables; root cops are so cheap and abundant that people of Wright used to sell to other places. The biggest and surest market of these products are the capital town of Catbalogan and Bagacay, the set of the copper mine is Samar\nFrom the Maqueda bay, fish fresh of different kinds are so plentiful that people who engaged in fishing earned enough for the family support. Aside from the fish sea shells can also be gathered from there. The famous bahong, sabuad, baliad, ponao, saringa, bocawil, and others so plentiful and more than enough for the town’s consumption.\n\nThe people of Wright are lovers of socials and they love dance the Curracha. The Summer time Club is a town organization composed of both the married and single group that usually hold its annual affair very beginning of the summer vacation.\n\nDuring the American period, Paranas was renamed by the new administrators to Wright, in honour of General Wright. However, locals retained and still use the name Paranas. It absorbed the former town of San Sebastian. In 1950, the barrios of San Sebastian, Jitaasan, Dolores, Camanjagay, Bontod, Campidasa, Campiyak, Maslog, Balogo, Maropangpang, Binongtoan, and Bolwan was re-created as a town.\n\nIn 1955 the sitio of Madalanot was converted into a barrio.\n\n\n\nBruna Fabrigar - (locally knowns as Bunang) is a local hero in Paranas, Samar and one of brave and courageous leaders of the famous Pulajanes Movement during the Philippine–American War.\n\nThe Pan-Philippine Highway traverses Paranas.\n\nDomestic air travelers prefer to return to Paranas via dominant Tacloban's Daniel Z. Romualdez Airport due to the length of the runway and the accessibility of land transportation. Other options include the improved Calbayog Airport and the less utilized Catbalogan Airport (which is only ideal for smaller aircraft). International air travelers may also reach Paranas via Manila, Cebu or Davao en route to Tacloban. In the next few months, Tacloban's airport is being readied for direct international flights.\n\nTownspeople living off the coast of Paranas believe turtles that come to die ashore are omens of danger, harbingers of typhoons and ocean-related accidents. The old fisherfolk dare not touch nor disturb these docile creatures because of this superstition. Green sea turtles and Loggerhead turtles frequent some coves off Samar to lay eggs or wade near the shallow areas to explore. Gigantic Loggerhead turtles are especially rare visitors even in the yesteryears. When they come ashore and do not lay eggs, tears flow from their eyes like humans. They would then die as the blazing sun rises and their bodies are scorched. Afterwards, fishermen go missing at sea, typhoons arrive, \"bancas\" capsize or cargo ships sink. Residents attest turtles came to die on their shores when M/V Dona Paz sank causing thousands of people to drown to their deaths.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123493", "title": "Pinabacdao", "text": "Pinabacdao\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is considered as the center of rice production in the province of Samar. The home of Mayaw-Mayaw Festival, an ethnic and dance festival celebrated every May 10 of each year. Mayaw-Mayaw Festival won second runner-up in the festival dance competition and first prize winner in the float design competition during the 2015 Aliwan Fiesta which was held on April 23–25 in the cities of Manila and Pasay.\n\nPinabacdao lies at the south-west central coast of Samar Island and crossed along by the Pan-Philippine Highway. Pinabacdao is bordered to the north by the municipality of Calbiga; to the east by the capital city of Borongan in the province of Eastern Samar; to the west by the municipality of Villareal and Villareal Bay; and to the south by the municipalities of Santa Rita and Basey.\n\nThe municipality of Pinabacdao is politically divided into 24 barangays, the smallest unit of local government in the Philippines. Each barangay has its own chairperson and councilors which forms the barangay council ().\n\nFor administrative and statistical convenience, barangays are group into two districts - the upland barangays and pilot barangays. Upland district is composed of barangays situated in far-flung areas mostly those located in the eastern part of the municipality. Barangays located along Pan-Philippine Highway/National Road or commonly referred as Maharlika Highway () comprises the Pilot district mostly those located in the western coastal and lowland areas. These districts have no form of any local government.\n\n\nCalampong is one of the two coastal barangays in Pinabacdao, bounded by Calbiga to the north and east and Maqueda Bay to the west and south. Most of its population lives by farming and fishing.\n\nPinabacdao's climate is classified as tropical. Pinabacdao is a town with a significant rainfall. Even in the driest month there is a lot of rain. This location is classified as Af by Köppen and Geiger. The average annual temperature is 27.1 °C in Pinabacdao. The average annual rainfall is 2739 mm.\n\nThe term \"\"Pinabácdao\"\" or \"\"Pinabakdaw\"\" is a Waray Sinamar-Lineyte dialect that means \"\"asked to stand\"\" in English Language or simply \"\"pinatayó\"\" in Filipino Language. But in the book \"Atlas de Filipinas\" by José María Algué, SJ - a Spanish-Roman Catholic priest and meteorologist in the observatory of Manila published in 1899 (In 1900 published in English: \"Atlas of the Philippine Islands\" by the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey \"now\" \"U.S. National Geodetic Survey\"); Pinabacdao was cited as \"Pinabágdao\" and listed as a \"pueblo\" or town in the former island province of Samar.\n\nDue to lack of official and authenticated historical accounts pertaining to the origin of the town's name, the municipal government is only relying on folktales which were handed from prominent ancestors to their eager descendants. Folktales revealed that the town of Pinabacdao got its present name by the time when the Philippines was still under the Spanish colonial era; the provincial governor of Samar asked \"Capitan\" Doquerez (believed to be the founder and first mayor of Pinabacdao) as to what punishment he would impose to those who violated any rule or law. Doquerez insisted that he will not impose fines and imprisonment, instead they will be punished by asking them to \"\"bakdaw\"\" or stand on an ant colony. The Spanish governor was then amused and concluded that since the punishment or \"\"pena\"\" in Spanish language is to \"\"bakdaw\"\" or stand the town deserves to be called \"\"Pena-bakdaw\"\" \"(respelled as Pinabacdao)\".\n\nAnother folktale or legend surrounding the town suggests that Pinabacdao's name was derived from miscommunication. These was the time when according to the folktale during the early years of settlement, officers from the Samar provincial government (probably on a mapping, census or exploratory survey) passed along the newly organized town and saw a man tied on a pole, standing on an ant colony. The Spanish officers asked one of the townsmen as to what is the name of the place. The townsman, not understanding the question in Spanish and thinking that the officer was pertaining to the tied man standing on ant colony immediately replied in Waray-waray dialect - \"\"Pinabakdaw\"\" or simply \"asked to stand\". This story was believed to be the reason why the bureaucrats recorded the name of the town as \"Pinabacdao\".\n\nIn terms of official government record, the town is officially known as Pinabacdao by virtue of Executive Order No. 2 signed by president Manuel A. Roxas on July 8, 1946 and took effect on July 16, 1946.\n\nPinabacdao was established in 1749 but became a barrio in 1902 as part of the Municipality of Calbiga. It was then reestablished by Executive Order No. 02 series of 1946 issued by President Manuel A. Roxas, and separated from Calbiga as a reestablished municipality on July 16, 1946.\n\nTo carry out its mandates and objectives, the Philippine Department of Education is organized into two major structural components. The Central Office maintains the overall administration of basic education at the national level. The Field Offices are responsible for the regional and local coordination and administration of the Department’s mandate.\n\nAt the sub-national level, the Field Offices are consist of regional offices and provincial/city schools division. Under the supervision of the provincial/city schools division offices are school districts.\n\nBefore the creation of a separate school district for the municipality, schools were under the supervision of the District of Pinabacdao-San Sebastian. But due to an increasing number of schools in the municipality, Pinabacdao and San Sebastian municipalities had their own school district . The School District of Pinabacdao is tasked to manage and govern schools except the three secondary schools which are under the direct supervision of the Schools Division of Samar.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123494", "title": "San Jorge, Samar", "text": "San Jorge, Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town is famous for its Blanca Aurora Falls near Barangay Blanca Aurora along the Blanca Aurora river. On December 6, 1978, Pagsanghan and San Jorge were created as a new municipalities out of Gandara. An inauguration is held every 10 October since 1979.\n\nDue to farming abundancy here in San Jorge they proclaimed Saint George as their Patron Saint and because it happened that the name were similar to a historical person named George Curn.\n\nSan Jorge is divided into 42 barangays according to the Assessors Office of the Town, the towns MAP.\n\nThe community is one of the oldest baraŋgay of municipality of Gandara. Its history can be traced back to the American regime. Even its name San Jorge was in honor of an American soldier by the name of George Curn who happened to own and donate the site where the old baraŋgay was formerly located. The present location is the second site of the baraŋgay. Its old site was located across the Sapinit River where the San Jorge Elementary School is presently nestled.\n\n\n\nTwo mountainside slope rolling down to the San Jorge National High School and a Gasoline Station were observed to be a potential flood prone areas, developer and planning engineers constructed a Rectangular Culvert alongside the 1 AH 26 Sleeves going to the San Jorge River.\nWith a vast water shed area just below the municipality of San Jose de Buan, San Jorge area is really a drainage area in times of rainy season. In a matter of two consecutive days rain, flood waters automatically rumbles down the slopes going to the lowland areas from Buenavista, Bulao, La Paz, Mombon, San Jorge Proper, Erenas then directly towards the low-lying areas of the town of Gandara then to the town of Pagsanghan and the samar sea finally. Areas like the barangays of Buenavista, Janipon,Bulao, Guindapunan, La Paz, Mombon, and Anquiana could be soaked for a couple of days which usually leads to destruction of standing crops in the lowlands. These are usually rice, corn, vegetables and other crops in the flat lands.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123495", "title": "San Jose de Buan", "text": "San Jose de Buan\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSan Jose de Buan was a municipal district of Gandara from 1948 to 1960, and was converted into a municipality in 1969.\n\nSan Jose de Buan is politically subdivided into 14 barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123497", "title": "San Sebastian, Samar", "text": "San Sebastian, Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSan Sebastian was absorbed into the town of Wright (Paranas) during the American occupation. In 1950, the neighborhoods of San Sebastian, Jitaasan, Dolores, Camanjagay, Bontod, Campidasa, Campiyak, Maslog, Balogo, Maropangpang, Binongtoan, and Bolwan were combined and re-established as a single town.\n\nSan Sebastian is politically subdivided into 14 barangays.\n\n\nThe town of San Sebastian was known before as \"Balugo,\" (the original and ancient name) considering that it was situated at the mouth of Balugo River. Balugo was a visita and it was annexed to Paranas. It was later renamed San Sebastian by Fray Domingo Ruiz, O.F.M. after his birthplace (a coastal city in Spain) who was then assigned in Balugo. Fr. Ruiz made initial efforts and recommendations that San Sebastian from its status as visita should be elevated and made into pueblo under the spiritual care of the cura paroco of Catbalogan.\n\nBetween 1894–1895, San Sebastian was given the status as pueblo and an independent parish separated from its mother town, Paranas.\nDuring the outbreak of the Philippine Revolution, San Sebastian was again affixed as a barrio of Paranas. Later with the enactment of Republic Act No. 543 by the Philippine Congress once again San Sebastian became an independent municipality.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123498", "title": "Santa Margarita, Samar", "text": "Santa Margarita, Samar\n\n', officially the ', (Waray: \"Bungto san Magsohong\"), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nFormerly known as Magsohong, it is bounded to the north by the city of Calbayog and to the south by Gandara.\n\nSanta Margarita is politically subdivided into 36 barangays.\n\nThe town used to be a barrio in Calbayog named Magsohong, but on June 29, 1878, the \"principalía\" of Magsohong, petitioned the Gobierno Superior to establish Magsohong as an independent pueblo. They argued that Magsohong was four hours away from Calbayog, it already had a \"casa real\" or a \"Juzgado de Paz\" of nipa, a church with a techada (roof) of nipa; a convent; an escuela also made of wood and nipa; and had more than 300 tributos. The petition was endorsed by the \"cura parroco\", the Gobernadorcillo as well as the principalía of Calbayog. Fourteen years later, Royal Decree No. 25 dated September 25, 1892 approved the establishment of the pueblo of Magsohong renamed Santa Margarita. The new pueblo had three visitas: Balud, San Bernardo, and Londara. However, it remained under the parish of Calbayog.\n\n\nJuly 25 (Alimango Festival) - this dance festival revolves around the courtship between the female \"alimango\" (the mud crab \"Scylla serrata\" found in fishponds) Atabayi and the male Amamakhao. It also depicts the capture of the \"alimango\" with the use of the \"bobo\" and giant \"bentol\" (kinds of traps). Dancers, dressed as alimango, flex their hands as if to bite. Snare drums and talutang highlight the fast rhythm of the dance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123499", "title": "Santa Rita, Samar", "text": "Santa Rita, Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSanta Rita is connected to Tacloban and Leyte Island by the San Juanico Bridge.\n\nThe town guarding the northern entrance of the beautiful strait in the Region, the San Juanico Strait, is the calm and serene town of Santa Rita, Samar. It is in this place where the longest single span bridge in Asia, the San Juanico Bridge also known as the “Bridge of Love” is located. Its length is 2.162 kilometers and 10.62 meters in width. The bridge traverses the picturesque water strip that connects the island of Samar and Leyte as vital link of the Pan-Philippine Highway.\n\nThe town of Santa Rita straddles an area of 552.6354 square kilometers with a population of 41,591 as of 2015 census. Bounded by the Province of Eastern Samar in the east; Talalora in the west; Villareal and Pinabacdao in the north; and Municipality of Basey in the south. The town is located along the seacoast. Verdant hills and mountains surround the hinterland that is somewhat two triangular in shape with irregular borderlines that face the seaway. The climate is favorable to agriculture, which is typical in the region.\n\nLocal tradition dates the founding of this town in late eighteenth century. According to some aged inhabitants, the original settlers were the tribes of the Amistoso, Lacambra, and Agoy. Joaquin Amistoso rose to be their leader. The San Juanico Strait was supposed to have been named in his honor. These people made their living by fishing and small-scale farming.\nCaptain Bartolome Sanchez, the head of a Spanish expedition in 1800, was captivated by the friendliness and hospitality of the people in the island so he decided to stay and help them. He called the neighboring tribes to unite with them and appointed Joaquin Amistoso to be the Cabeza de Barangay. \nIn years between 1810-1898, several attempts of fleet of Moro vintas or “pancos” who tried to rob the puro’s golden bell, which was given by the Spaniards. Aged inhabitants believed that this bell had a melodious sound, which echoed up to Mindanao. This attracted the Moros who kept on attempting to raid the place. The tribes who guarded the bell to keep it safe in the “puro” fought against the moros. The ruins of the fortress locally known as “barawalte” still stands today and are mute evidence of Moro raids in the past. Today, the question of the whereabouts of the bell is still on the minds of the people because it is nowhere to be found.\nThe first site of the town was a small island between Samar and Leyte originally known as “Puro”. Later, it was called Tabucan because the natives from the mainland had to cross the strait before reaching the island community. Now, it is officially called Santa Rita.\n\nOriginally the patron saint of the town was Saint Roch (\"San Roque\"). Later, it was changed to Santa Rita of Casia. Some aged residents said that a fisherman while promenading along the shore saw a woman walking by the sea at a distance. When he came nearer where he saw the woman, he found out that it was just a log. This phenomenon occurred three times. The fisherman became curios, so he turned the log and saw the face of a nun. He brought this statue to the priest at “Puro”. The priest identified the statue as Saint Rita of Casia. From then on, the people of the place changed their patron saint from Saint Roque to Saint Rita of Casia. As the days went on, the residents renamed the place from “Puro” or Tabucan to Santa Rita. From that time on, it was said that the saint performed many miracles to protect the people in the island most especially against the moro raids. Years passed and Santa Rita was rapidly populated. The inhabitants transferred across the mainland of Samar to a place called Lalawiton, the present site of the municipality.\n\nOn January 2, 1864, the Spanish authorities officially recognized the municipality of Santa Rita. Before that time, Santa Rita belonged to the municipality of Basey. This is the statement of declaration of the Spaniards when they fully acknowledged the municipality, “La fundacion de este pueblo se debe á los RR. PP. agustinos, hallándose como vista del de Basey cuando recibimos de dichos RR. PP. su administracion el año de 1804. Por decreto del Superior Gobierno de 2 de Enero de 1864 fué separado de Basey, formando parroquia con la vista de Catongaan”. Santa Rita was separated from Basey because Santa Rita has established its own parish.\n\nIn 1908, the first local elections were held and Pedro Amistoso was elected municipal president. Succeeding him were: Mamerto Ilagan (1910); Alipio Regaret (1912); Inocencio Hilvano (1916); Florentino Nerviol (1928-1932), (1942-1946); Margarito Caberic (1932-1940), (1946-1947); Conrado Adolfo (1940-1941); Isidro Zeta (1947); Simplicio Lacaba (1947-1954); Gaudencio Espino Sr. (1960-1968); Pedro Hilvano (1954-1960), (1968-1982); Densaldo Alvarez (1982-1986); Silverio Macariola (1986-1998); Leticia Macariola (1998-2000); Beatriz Tiopes (2000-2007); Lisandro Kim Adolfo (2007-2013);Joven P. Tiu (2013-Present).\n\nSanta Rita is politically subdivided into 38 barangays. In 1957, sitio Dampigan was converted into a barrio.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123502", "title": "Santo Niño, Samar", "text": "Santo Niño, Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nFormerly known as Limbancauayan, it consists of the northern island of Camandag and the larger Santo Niño Island about to the south. In between those two islands is the smaller Pilar Island. The municipality's \"poblacion\" (town center) is located in Santo Niño Island. \n\nThe islands are located in Samar Sea about south-west of Calbayog City in the main island of Samar.\n\nThe larger Santo Niño Island is about north-west of Maripipi, Biliran province with an area of about . Both islands are volcanic in origin with Santo Niño having the highest elevation in the municipality at .\n\n\nThe circular Camandag Island is located north of Santo Niño Island, about shore to shore. It has area of about with an elevation of .\n\nThe smallest island of the municipality is located off north-west of Santo Niño Island and about south-west of Camandag Island. Pilar Island has an elevation of .\n\nSanto Niño is politically subdivided into 13 barangays.\n\n\nThis town has an ancient Bisayan name Limbankawayan which derived from the word \"limba\" meaning red and \"kawayan\" means bamboo thus a red colored bamboo (phyllostachys iridescens) which is abundant during those days.\n\nIt was separated from Calbayog and made a pueblo and a parish by a Royal Decree of September 29, 1898. The Bishop of Cebu had recommended in 1895 that it achieve parish status, though final approval and confirmation was not relayed from Madrid through Manila until the year 1897.\n\nThere are no airports on the islands of Santo Niño and Camandag. The islands are reached by boats from the Port of Calbayog City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123504", "title": "Tagapul-an, Samar", "text": "Tagapul-an, Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is the farthest municipality from the province's mainland.\n\nTagapul-an is politically subdivided into 14 barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123505", "title": "Talalora, Samar", "text": "Talalora, Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nTalalora was created from the barrios of Mallorga, Tulac, Talalora, Tatabonan, Navatas, and Navatas Guti of the town of Villareal, by virtue of Republic Act No. 192.\n\nTalalora is politically subdivided into 11 barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123506", "title": "Tarangnan", "text": "Tarangnan\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nTarangnan is situated on the western coast of Samar Island, to the south-east of the ancient town of Bangahon (now Gandara) and to the north of Samar's capital Catbalogan. Tarangnan is found near the former ancient \"pueblo\" Tinago, the first town to be Christianized and was made a center or \"cabecera\".\n\nTarangnan has its own municipal hospital which was inaugurated in 1982, with a 10-bed capacity. It caters primarily to health services. It is augmented by Rural Health Unit extension workers. It has daycare centers which also cater the needs of pre-schoolers.\n\nThe municipality of Tarangnan is geographically situated in the west portion of the island of Samar, bounded on the north by the municipality of Pagsanghan, in the south by the capital city of Catbalogan and on the west by the Samar Sea or Maqueda Bay. The distance of the poblacion to Catbalogan is about and away from Calbayog City. It can be reached via an road from the Maharlika Highway crossing Barangay Balugo by a provincial road.\n\nTarangnan is politically subdivided into 41 barangays.\n\nDuring the earlier part of the 17th century, Tarangnan or Tinago was the first settlement of Jesuit missionaries on the island of Samar. Tinago was the first \"cabecera\" on Samar where the first Jesuits have arrived, that is October 15, 1596. When Tinago was devastated by the Moro attack in 1616, the Jesuits decided to transfer the \"cabecera\" to Catbalogan. Since that time Tinago had not came back to life as pueblo until 1725. The poblacion was established at Dapdap but for access and sanitation it was moved to tarangnan in 1883-1884.\n\nThe attempted transfer of the \"pueblo\" from Dapdap to Tarangnan in 1882 became highly celebrated case. It was a struggle or a fight between the parish priest of Dapdap, fr. Angel Pulido, OFM and the \"governadorcillo\" of Dapdap.\nThe town of Dapdap was transferred in 1884 to a barrio called Tarangnan, from which it derived its name today. At first the church and \"convento\" were constructed of light materials which means bamboo and nipa. The new church was constructed in 1894 by P. Venancio Palencia, OFM and completed in 1897.\n\nIn the second half of the nineteenth century, the island of Samar experienced a commercial boom, especially in abaca, with imports and exports of abaca products. Moro raids in the island declined due to the presence of Spaniards. As the Spaniards settled in Samar, they saw the need of all-weather seaports and easy communications for their commercial activities and political administration. This development paved the way for the convergence of the inhabitants into the old town site of Tarangnan, where transport was relatively accessible. The settlement of Tarangnan was growing at a much faster pace than the pueblo of Dapdap.\n\nTaking into consideration the island's commercial boom, with prospects of Tarangnan as a trading center and its religious vigilance over Dapdap, on June 21, 1881, Gov. Enrique Chacon wrote to his superiors. He recommended the transfer of the Poblacion from Dapdap to Tarangnan due to the former's poor accessibility, unavailability of land area for expansion, and its unsanitary environment.\n\nOn April 1, 1884, Tarangnan was declared as one of the municipalities of the Province of Samar by means of Royal Decree by the King of Spain, King Alfonso I.\n\nIn 1957, the following sitios were declared barrios: Cabunga-an, Tigdaranao, and Binalayan.\n\nSome years back, Tarangnan was estimated to have a low literacy rate. But, with the opening of primary education in some barangays and expansion of secondary education (Tarangnan National High School) in Barangay Oeste, its literacy rose dramatically to 89.95%, as recorded in the NSO 1995 survey.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123508", "title": "Villareal, Samar", "text": "Villareal, Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nVillareal is politically subdivided into 38 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123509", "title": "Zumarraga, Samar", "text": "Zumarraga, Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a island in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is formerly known as Buad, Rawis, and Kawayan. The town itself, notably its downtown area, is considered by many heritage scholars as a heritage zone due to the many heritage houses within its vicinity. The local government unit is currently conserving the history and traditions of the town.\n\nThe town is also famous for two beverages which it specializes in. These are the \"kinutil\" (\"tuba\" wine with egg yolk) and \"dubado\" (\"tuba\" wine with melted \"tablea\").\n\nZumarraga is divided into 25 barangays.\n\nThe town of Zumaraga was known for quite a number years before some other towns in Samar were recognized. This was because of a flourishing fishing industry in the town.\nThis started with a small settlement of a few villagers who came with their families from Leyte. They discovered the place while they were on their fishing trips and were overtaken by a storm during which they anchored and took refuge on the place now known as “Rawes”. To their amazement they found the place good for settlement, naturally pleasing due to the presence of bamboo. So when they returned to settle they named the place “Kawayan”.\nThese villagers became prosperous because of the abundance of fish in the waters which surrounded the islands. It as for this reason that many people from neighboring places flocked for some fishing business. The first to come were the Ferreras from Leyte.\nThe news of this rich fishing village reached the ears of the Moro pirates so they extended their piracy to Visayan waters. To keep themselves safe, the natives built strong stone fortifications on the top of the hill overlooking the whole town. Today, these fortifications still remain, a symbol of the unity of our forefathers; without their unity these forts would not have been built.\nNobody can tell the exact date of the coming of the Spaniards to the islands, but in 1848 a Spanish friar was sent to the place. It was said that with their coming, they already found the natives willing to obey and follow the laws of the self-governing body which ruled the village. The name of the place was already “Buad” derived from the local dialect “Binuwaaran” a term for the digging made by wild pigs. Later on the birth peace known the first municipal primary of the birthplace of the first Spanish priest, Rev. Fr. Martin Yepes who was born in Zumaraga, a town in Spain.\nOn March 13, 1863, the town became an independent parish by virtue of a decree of the King of Spain. 1869, issued on Oct. 12, 1865, confirming the town as a parish under a certain diocese. The parish priest then had its jurisdiction over the islands of Buad and Daram including Paranas.\nWith the coming of the Spanish friars, came educational, spiritual and moral upliftment on the part of the natives. As such, these attracted the people from the neighboring towns and provinces. Foremost of the immigrants were the Zetas from Palo, Leyt, the Astorgas from Barugo, Leyte, the Villaflors from Cariga, Leyte, The Dazas, the Magas and Narios from Catbalogan, Samar, the Carcellars, Zosas, Versosas and Castillos.\nA well organized local government was established with the executive known as “Capitan”. The early capitanes in the order of succession were: Tenorio RFerrer (Capitan Toyang), Nepomuceno Zeta (Capitan Sinoy), Nicolas Custodio (Capitan Colas), Salvador Zeta (Captain Badoy), Brigido Heal (Capitan Bido), Tomas Bello, Hilario Villaflor and Agustin Astorga. These town officials were appointed by the Gobernadorcillo upon the recommendation of the parish priest who also served as the local “Inspector”. Much had happened during the Spanish era but no record exists showing any evidence. However, tales and riddles of our great grandfathers are told and retold from generation to generation.\nAmericans came. Changes were made from the national to local levels. Free elections were introduced. The local town executive became known as “Presidente”. The presidents in the order of their tenure of office were: Mario Maga, 1910; Luis Villaflor, 1911; Lucio Mijares, 1913; Leodergario Carcellar, 1914; Enrique Nario, 1916; Benito Astorga, 1920; Enrique Nario, 1926; and Rodrigo Daza, 1931.\nPopulation growth came mainly by immigration from neighboring places. With the increased population came an increase in industry and business particularly in fishing. It was during this rapid development that the wharf and a part of the breakwater “Sea wall” was constructed. The most illustrious son of Zumaraga, the late Pedro R. Arteche, represented his people in the constitutional convention in 1936; he subsequently occupied the gubernatorial seat of the provinces of Samar. During this period the elected town executive were known as “Mayor”. The elected town mayors up to the outbreak of the second World War were: 1936-1938 Mayor: Emilio Zeta; Vice Mayor: Leodegario Carcellar; 1939-Mayor: Francisco Zosa; Vice Mayor: Francisco Castillo.\nNaturally after the war, destructions were evident but the local government tried its very best to reconstruct all that were damaged. Efforts were made by the local town officials to make the better Zumaraga before the war, the best. Significant public works improvements were made. Worthy of mention were the cementing of streets, the establishment of the Puericculture Center, putting up an electric light, a Public market, and the construction of additional pre-fab, Marcos type and the Bagong Lipunan buildings. A private Catholic High School was established by few civic-spirited citizens, duly recognized by the government and is presently solving the needs of the youth of the town and its vicinity, for secondary education. The edifice of the Roman Catholic Church which is the material symbol of undying filial live, faith and devotion towards Christianity and to its most honored Patron St. Anthony of Padua, had been built centuries ago, is now being reconstructed. Such project has been attributed to different priest assigned, the Parish Council and the generosity of the Zumaraganhons now residing in Manila, Cebu, Iligan, Tacloban City, and Catbalogan who have prospered in their own lines of profession and industry and through the collective efforts of all Zumaraganhons.\nThe present municipal administration under the energetic leadership of Mayor Bibiano Z. Letaba has done tangible progress as regards cleanliness and peace and order. The municipality is also at present the recipient of several National projects in conformity with the goals and objectives of the New Society. Especially to improve and better the life of the common man.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123510", "title": "Los Angeles and Mount Washington Railway", "text": "Los Angeles and Mount Washington Railway\n\nThe Los Angeles and Mount Washington Railway Company was an early 20th Century incline railway which once operated in what is today known as the Mount Washington and Highland Park neighborhoods north of Downtown Los Angeles in the Northeast LA area.\n\nInspired by nearby Angels Flight on Hill Street in Downtown Los Angeles, the railway entered service in May 1909 as a means to promote the area as a hillside suburb. Built by developer Robert Marsh, the \"L.A. & Mt. Washington Ry. Co.\" consisted of a pair of electrically powered, counterbalanced trolley-style cars connected to an underground steel cable loop running the length of Avenue 43 - then a dirt road - to Marsh's Mount Washington Hotel at the 940 ft summit. \n\nThe rail cars' speed was 4 mph (6.4 km/h). At the top of the railway, visitors enjoyed at that time an as yet-unspoiled vista of the surrounding landscape, stretching east from the nearby San Gabriel Mountains and west to the Pacific Ocean. The ride proved to be a popular one, with the railway operating until midnight on weekends. Unfortunately, worn equipment and concerns over safety led to its final closure in 1919. By 1930, Avenue 43 was paved into a street for automobiles and the railway tracks and equipment had long since been removed. \n\nThe Mount Washington Hotel remains, having been purchased by the Self-Realization Fellowship in 1925. It was declared Historic Monument #845 by the City of Los Angeles on August 16, 2006. \n\nThe base station of the LA&MWRC is also still standing. Currently located at 200 W Avenue 43, Los Angeles, CA 90065, the cable car station overlooks the Metro Gold Line just south of the Southwest Museum stop in the Highland Park neighborhood of Northeast LA. The base station on Avenue 43 was declared Historic Monument #269 in 1983.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123512", "title": "Jacobo Arenas", "text": "Jacobo Arenas\n\nJacobo Arenas (\"nom de guerre\" of Luis Alberto Morantes Jaimes, 23 January 1924 – 10 August 1990) was a Colombian guerrilla leader of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (\"Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia\", FARC). \n\nArenas' influence in FARC shifted the group toward more aggressive tactics, in which they would attempt to covertly surround cities actively pursue engagement with enemy forces. He was also one of the FARC figures involved in the organization and creation of the Patriotic Union political party in 1985.\n\nJacobo Arenas died on August 10, 1990, possibly due to cancer, but perhaps also due to diabetes or an ulcer, or even assassinated by a vindictive comrade (according to different versions). \n\nArenas' son, known as Francisco Arenas, continued to serve in the FARC after his father's death. He eventually led the Jacobo Arenas Front mobile column, named in honor of his father.\n\nAlfonso Cano subsequently became Arenas' replacement as ideological leader of the group throughout the 1990s, and served as the leader of the FARC-EP from May 2008 to November 2011, when he was killed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123518", "title": "Philip of Montfort, Lord of Castres", "text": "Philip of Montfort, Lord of Castres\n\nPhilip ΙΙ of Montfort (died 24 September 1270) was a French nobleman, Count of Squillace in Italy from 1266/68, then Lord of Castres in 1270. He was the son of Philip I of Monfort, Lord of Tyre and Eleonore of Courtenay. His coat-of-arms was \"Gules, a lion rampant double queued argent, a label of four points azure\" (or \"... rampant queue forche ...\").\n\nHe joined the expedition of Charles of Anjou to conquer the Kingdom of Sicily, and he shared command of the first battalion at the Battle of Benevento with Hugh of Mirepoix. After Benevento, he was given command of forces to protect the Papal States. He led the Angevin troops into the island of Sicily, and put down the revolt that resulted in the sacking of Augusta.\n\nOn his father’s death in March 1270, he succeeded to his French seigneury of Castres, but his father's possessions in Outremer had been granted to his half-brother John of Montfort. He joined the Eighth Crusade and died in Tunis.\n\nHe married Jeanne de Lévis-Mirepoix († 30 June 1284), daughter of Guy I de Lévis, Lord of Mirepoix and Guibourge of Montfort and had three children:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123519", "title": "Mensch ärgere Dich nicht", "text": "Mensch ärgere Dich nicht\n\nMensch ärgere Dich nicht (English: \"Man, Don't Get Angry\") is a German board game (but not a German-style board game), developed by Josef Friedrich Schmidt in 1907/1908. Some 70 million copies have been sold since its introduction in 1914. It is played in Germany, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Croatia and Italy.\n\nThe name derives from the fact that a peg is sent back to the \"out\" field when another peg lands on it, similar to the later game Sorry!. It is a cross and circle game with the circle collapsed onto the cross, similar to the Indian game Pachisi, the Colombian game Parqués, the American games Parcheesi and Trouble, and the English game Ludo.\n\nThe most played variant of the game can be played by 2, 3, 4 players – one player per board side. The special one has a pattern for 6 players. Each player has four game pieces, which are in the \"out\" area when the game starts, and which must be brought into the player's \"home\" row.\n\nThe rows are arranged in a cross position. They are surrounded and connected with a circle of fields, over which the game pieces move in clockwise direction. There are three fields on each side of the board. At the beginning of the game, the players' pieces are placed in the four fields marked \"B\" on the far left side, the \"out\" section. The coloured field just left of centre, marked \"A\", is each player's \"start\" field. The white field just to the right of the start field leads to the \"home\" row, marked \"a\", \"b\", \"c\", \"d\". Each game piece enters the circle at the \"start\" field (\"A\"), moves (clockwise) over the board and finally enters the \"home\" row. The first player with all of their pieces in their \"home\" row wins the game.\n\nThe players throw a game die in turn and can advance any of their pieces in the game by the thrown number of dots on the die.\n\nThrowing a six means bringing a piece into the game (by placing one from the \"out\" (\"B\") area onto the \"start\" or \"A\" field) and throwing the die again. If a piece is on the \"A\" field and there are still pieces in the \"out\" area, it must be moved as soon as possible. If a piece cannot be brought into the game then any other piece in the game must be moved by the thrown number, if that is possible. A commonly played variation allows a player who has no pieces in the circle of fields to have three tries to throw a six.\n\nPieces can jump over other pieces, and throw out pieces from other players (into that player's \"out\" area) if they land on them. A player cannot throw out his own pieces though, he can advance further than the last field in the \"home\" row. A player can be thrown out if he is on his \"start\" field.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123525", "title": "WZDC-CD", "text": "WZDC-CD\n\nWZDC-CD, virtual channel 44 (UHF digital channel 34), is a Class A Telemundo owned-and-operated television station licensed to the American capital city of Washington, District of Columbia. Owned by the Telemundo Station Group subsidiary of NBCUniversal (itself a subsidiary of Comcast), it is sister to NBC owned-and-operated station WRC-TV (channel 4) and regional sports network NBC Sports Washington. WZDC-CD and WRC-TV share studios and transmitter facilities on Nebraska Avenue in the Tenleytown neighborhood of northwest Washington.\n\nWZDC-CD signed on as W64BW on UHF channel 64 in April 1994, as the Telemundo affiliate in the Washington, D.C. market. On December 1, 1995, the call letters were changed to WZGS-LP, reflecting the station's ownership. On June 27, 2000, the call letters were changed to WZDC-LP. On June 3, 2002, the station began producing Spanish-language local newscasts at 6 and 11 p.m. weeknights.\n\nOn April 10, 2007, WZDC-LP moved to channel 25, as channel 64 was to be removed from television broadcasting as a result of the 2009 digital television transition.\n\nThe station received class-A status in September 2008, changing callsigns to WZDC-CA to match. An application to build a new digital signal on channel 26 was dismissed in the same month. WZDC eventually received permission to flash-cut to digital on channel 25 in March 2011, and became WZDC-CD in doing so that September.\n\nIn the 2016–17 incentive auction, WZDC-CD received $66,182,037 to leave the air, though it indicated that it would maintain over-the-air coverage by entering into a post-auction channel sharing agreement.\n\nOn September 6, 2017, NBCUniversal internally announced that it would launch a Telemundo owned-and-operated station based out of WRC-TV (channel 4) in December; a Telemundo spokesperson stated that the sale of WZDC's spectrum \"gave us the ability to take back the Telemundo affiliation for this market,\" without elaborating. Subsequently, on December 4, 2017, NBCUniversal's Telemundo Station Group announced its purchase of ZGS' 13 television stations, including WZDC-CD. As a result of the common ownership, WZDC-CD then entered into a channel-sharing agreement with WRC-TV, under which it ended broadcasts over its own signal on channel 25 and moved to WRC-TV's signal on channel 48. NBCUniversal assumed the operations of WZDC on January 1, 2018 through a local marketing agreement.\n\nThe channel-sharing agreement with WRC-TV took effect on March 7, 2018, at which time WZDC shut off its own signal.\n\nAs the channel-share went into effect, WZDC's virtual channel number of 25 presented an issue. Virtual channel 25 is already in use by Hagerstown's WDVM-TV, which covers much of the western part of the Washington market and overlaps the signal of WRC-TV. The PSIP standard resolves virtual channel conflicts by assigning the new station a virtual channel number equal to the existing station's physical channel number. As WDVM-TV broadcast over physical channel 26 at the time, the rule would assign WZDC-CD virtual channel 26. However, WETA-TV already uses virtual channel 26 in the market, and there is no further remedy prescribed in the PSIP standard. NBC proposed as a second option virtual channel 64, corresponding to WZDC-CD's original analog channel. This introduces another conflict with WDPB, which overlaps the eastern portion of WRC-TV's coverage area. In this case, the same rule assigned virtual channel 44, which was available.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nPresently, WZDC broadcasts 10 hours of locally produced newscasts each week. It currently airs at 5 p.m., 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. on weekdays. The station expanded local news to the 5 p.m. hour on February 5, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123529", "title": "Human Life Amendment", "text": "Human Life Amendment\n\nThe Human Life Amendment is the name of multiple proposals to amend the United States Constitution that would have the effect of overturning the Supreme Court 1973 decision \"Roe v. Wade\", which ruled that prohibitions against abortion were unconstitutional. All of these amendment proposals seek to overturn \"Roe v. Wade\", but most of them go further by forbidding both Congress and the states from legalizing abortion. Some of the proposals define human life as beginning with conception or fertilization.\n\nThese amendments are sponsored or supported by the United States pro-life movement and opposed by the United States pro-choice movement. None of these proposals have succeeded.\n\nA number of Human Life Amendments have been proposed in Congress since 1973, with 20 total days of hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee in 1974, 1975, and 1981, several other hearings before other committees, and a number of floor debates. Between 1973 and 2003, the National Committee for a Human Life Amendment reports a total of 330 proposals using varying texts, with most dying in committee. The only version of the Human Life Amendment to reach a formal floor vote was the Hatch-Eagleton Amendment, which received 49 supporting votes in the Senate on June 28, 1983, falling 18 votes short of the 67 required for passage.\n\nIntroduced by Rep. Lawrence Hogan (R-MD) on January 30, 1973, under .\n\n\"Section 1. Neither the United States nor any State shall deprive any human being, from the moment of conception, of life without due process of law; nor deny to any human being, from the moment of conception, within its jurisdiction, the equal protection of the laws.\"\n\n\"Section 2. Neither the United States nor any State shall deprive any human being of life on account of illness, age, or incapacity.\"\n\n\"Section 3. Congress and the several States shall have the power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.\"\n\nIntroduced by Rep. G. William Whitehurst (R-VA) on March 13, 1973, under .\nnb\n\n\"Section 1. Nothing in this Constitution shall bar any State or territory or the District of Columbia, with regard to any area over which it has jurisdiction, from allowing, regulating, or prohibiting the practice of abortion.\"\n\nIntroduced by James Burke (D-MA) on September 12, 1973, under .\n\n\"Section 1. With respect to the right to life, the word 'person,' as used in this article and in the fifth and fourteenth articles of amendment to the Constitution of the United States, applies to all human beings, including their unborn offspring at every stage of their biological development, irrespective of age, health, function, or condition of dependency.\"\n\n\"Section 2. No abortion shall be performed by any person except under and in conformance with law permitting an abortion to be performed only in an emergency when a reasonable medical certainty exists that the continuation of pregnancy will cause the death of the mother and requiring that person to make every reasonable effort, in keeping with good medical practice, to preserve the life of her unborn offspring.\"\n\n\"Section 3. The Congress and the several States shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation within their respective jurisdictions.\"\n\nIntroduced by Sen. William Scott (R-VA) on June 6, 1975, under .\n\n\"The power to regulate the circumstances under which pregnancy may be terminated is reserved to the states.\"\n\nIntroduced by Rep. Romano Mazzoli (D-KY) on April 5, 1979, under .\n\n\"The paramount right to life is vested in each human being from the moment of fertilization without regard to age, health, or condition of dependency.\"\n\nIntroduced by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) on September 21, 1981, under .\n\n\"A right to abortion is not secured by this Constitution. The Congress and the several States shall have the concurrent power to restrict and prohibit abortions: Provided, That a law of a State which is more restrictive than a law of Congress shall govern.\"\n\nIntroduced by Sen. Orrin Hatch and Sen. Thomas Eagleton (D-MO) on January 26, 1983, under and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary. The matter was referred to the Subcommittee on Constitution on February 22 and hearing were held by the subcommittee on Feb 28 and March 7. On March 23 the Subcommittee \"[a]pproved for full committee consideration with an amendment favorably\". The Committee itself ordered the resolution to be reported with amendment without recommendation on April 19, and the resolution was reported to the Senate and placed on the legislative calendar on July 7. The resolution finally came before the full Senate on July 27 and 28 failing passage by a 49-50 vote.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123532", "title": "Aroroy", "text": "Aroroy\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people. The town is known for the Kalanay Cave, one of the most important archaeological sites in Masbate province.\n\nThe town of Aroroy (\"Al-Oroy\" its former name), which came from the Spanish word for gold-\"\"oro\"\", was established back in 1822 upon the arrival of a Chinese expedition. The Chinese fleet was composed of seven vessels called \"pancos\". They entered Lanang River, which is part of Puerto Barrera, the former name of the area now covered by Aroroy. A Moro named Talcum guided this expedition. They were sent by the Chinese merchants who came to Aroroy to explore for gold coins near Lanang River.\n\nDuring that time, when the present Masbate province was still part of the province of Ibalon (present-day Albay), a captain from the Spanish Army named Gregorio Cordero of Tondo, Manila was exiled in Masbate for the killing of his superior officer. Instead of being incarcerated in the castle of San Pascual in Burias Island, where political and military prisoners were imprisoned by the Captain-General of the Philippine Islands, he was brought to Masbate. Accompanied by his two daughters and a son, they established residency in the Port of Magdalena, municipality of Masbate. He had with him four (4) \"Faluas\" or Spanish vessels named – Jesus Maria Y Jose, Sacramento, Salvacion and Santa Ana for use in the vigilance against Moro pirates who preyed on the three islands of Masbate, Ticao and Burias. \nWhen the Spaniards discovered the Chinese expedition, Cordero and about one-hundred fifty (150) men, who believed him to possess amulets (anting-anting) which made him invulnerable, sailed to Lanang River to find out the nationality of the said seven (7) vessels which entered Lanang River. When investigated as to where they were going, the aliens answered in their Chinese manner that they were going to \"Al-Oroy\" meaning to the Gold or in Spanish “Al-oro”. Not satisfied with the results of the investigation with the belief that these are Moro vessels, Cordero and his men established their headquarters for over three (3) months in the presentpoblacion of Aroroy, which was known as Al-Oroy taken from the Chinese reply.\n\nAnother expedition of Spaniards from Manila headed by a certain Sarmiento came to explore the gold in the river near Al-oroy in 1861. This expedition was aided by natives of Al-oroy which includes among them were certain Toribio Bunayag, Jose Pusing, Norberto Pusing and Protacio Fabon. Said natives abandoned expedition during the same year because of assaults who are dedicated to pan the riverbeds with bateas and/or limbasan to recover the gold nuggets themselves. This led to the death of Sarmiento and since then said river was called Rio Guinobatan or “River of Assaults”.\n\nSince then the site of Al-Oroy became a \"vista\" or barrio of the town of Baleno but later was transferred to the town of San Agustin in the interior part of Port Barrera. In 1904, when the towns of Baleno and San Agustin were combined, the name Al-Oroy was changed to Aroroy. It was also in 1904 when Aroroy became a municipality because of its strategic location. San Agustin now is just a barangay of the Municipality of Aroroy.\n\nAroroy is geographically located between 12 degrees and 13 degrees Latitude and 123 degrees and 124 degrees Longitude or at the northernmost part of the province of Masbate, Bicol Region. It is bounded on the north by the Masbate Pass, to the East by the municipality of Baleno, to the West by the Sibuyan Sea and to the South by the municipalities of Milagros and Mandaon.\n\nAroroy is politically subdivided into 41 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Aroroy was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2123533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123533", "title": "Baleno, Masbate", "text": "Baleno, Masbate\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBaleno is politically subdivided into 24 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Baleno, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe Municipality of Baleno is a median town for provincial buses coming from Metro Manila and Bicol Region to various towns beyond Baleno, including Aroroy, Balud and Mandaon. Some of the notable bus liners that bypass the town are Isarog Bus Liners and Raymond Transportation.\n\nBarangay Poblacion in Baleno is the seat of the Municipal Government, and includes a town plaza named Plaza Valdemoro. Its parochial church is heavily devoted to the Our Lady of Pillar a notable Christian figure in the Nueva Caceres (Archdiocese of Naga). The Municipality of Baleno has one (1) Catholic school Liceo de Baleno under the roof of Diocese of Masbate and has several national-established high schools, namely Baleno National High School (Barangay Poblacion), Lagta National High School (Barangay Lagta), Lahong National High School (Barangay Lahong Proper), Magdalena National High School (Barangay Magdalena), and Amador-Bello High School (Barangay Gangao).\n\nAside from the prominence of Roman Catholicism in the locality and traces of sects and Christian groups such as Iglesia ni Kristo and Jehovah Witness, the municipality is the seat of the Congregation of Our Lady of Rocks Pilgrimage Church (\"Ina Poon Bato Simbahang Naglalakbay\"), considered as a Filipino Marian Catholic Church, wherein it holds to the belief of Mother Mary as the Third Person of the Holy Trinity. It is currently being handled by Santa Ma. Merly Amor as the Foundress and Matriarch of the Church, and Most. Rev. Ernesto Ignacio Maurice S. Nalzaro as the Patriarch and Protector of the Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123534", "title": "Balud", "text": "Balud\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe name Balud came from the name of a bird.\n\nBalud is politically subdivided into 32 barangays.\n\nPanguiranan is a village/barangay located on the east side of the Municipality of Balud. With the growing population and a thriving fishing area within the Asid Gulf, Panguiranan is a hub for small fisherman in selling their day's catch.\n\nIn the , the population of Balud, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2123538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123538", "title": "Batuan, Masbate", "text": "Batuan, Masbate\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is located at the southern point of Ticao Island. It is the smallest municipality in Masbate, both in land area and population.\n\nIn 1951, the barrios of Batuan, Burgos, Gibraltar, Costa Rica, Panisihan, and Matabao were separated from San Fernando to form the Municipality of Batuan.\n\nThe municipality is home to the Bongsanglay Natural Park.\n\nBatuan is politically subdivided into 14 barangays.\n\n\nIn the , the population of Batuan, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe municipality is part of Ticao island, which is known as an \"archaeological landscape\", possessing thousands of pre-colonial artifacts such as the Baybayin-inscribed Rizal Stone, Ticao gold spike teeth, Burial jars of varying designs and sizes, jade beads, human face rock statues, and the \"Ticao petrographs\". Much of the homes in Ticao island use these archaeological finds to design their interiors. The island is also an \"ecological frontier\" for the conservation of manta rays. The island also possesses a 'rare subspecies' of Visayan warty pig, that is almost near extinction.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123539", "title": "Cataingan", "text": "Cataingan\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is about southeast of Masbate City. \n\nIn 1948, Placer, then a barrio of this town, was separated as a town by virtue of Republic Act No. 292, passed June 16, 1948. Three years later, in 1951, the barrios of Limbuhan, Guindawahan, Palho, Casabangan, Salvacion, Alegria, Tanke, Bundukan, Bugtong, and Cabangrayan were separated from Cataingan and created into the town of Limbuhan. Placer, at that time of its creation, included the entire present day Municipality of Esperanza (which was then known as Barrio Esperanza).\n\nCataingan is politically subdivided into 36 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Cataingan was people, with a density of .\n\nCataingan is one of the municipalities and cities of Masbate where Masbateño is the indigenous language. Cebuano is also spoken there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123540", "title": "Cawayan, Masbate", "text": "Cawayan, Masbate\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nCawayan had an approximate income of Php 90,785,714.09 in 2012.\n\nCawayan is politically subdivided into 37 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Cawayan, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe locals of Cawayan still largely depend on subsistence farming despite its topographic advantage to adapt commercial farming. The lack of funding for agriculture and infrastructure and its political insecurity due to the presence and activities of armed groups kept by political families and other subversive elements hinder the town's progress in spite of its geographical benefits.\n\nBeing primarily plain and flat, Cawayan is conducive to cattle farming. Grasslands are abundant in the plains and in the gentle slopes of the valleys and hills. However, land grabbing issues still prevail as evidenced by hectares of private enclosures locally known as \"ranchos\" that run miles after miles. Herds of cattle inside the fence barrier are visible from the national road as one travels into the interior making Cawayan a major player in the cattle industry of the province.\n\nCawayan has several outlying islands crucial to its local fishing industries. These islands provide most of the marine resources to cater to the needs in the mainland. Barter trade is still practiced on Sundays, the town's busiest day.\n\nCopra farming is also popular in Cawayan.\n\n\nThe P42.95-million Cawayan Port Improvement Project in Barangay Mahayahay included the construction of rock causeway, back-up area, RC platform, RoRo ramp and breasting dolphin, as well as port lighting system, and mooring and fendering system. The project was completed on January 26, 2009.\n\nThe construction of this facility has drawn various forms of criticism. Nothing since the road construction project years way back that paved the national highway for a smooth access to other places had the townsfolk witnessed the unveiling of this multi-million project with such warm welcome. However, it was also evident that the materials used were substandard due to its massive damage when a typhoon struck the area months after its completion. Nevertheless, there was no denying of its economic contribution that further flourished open trade in the Visayan nautical radius.\n\n\nOther than the local outrigger boat operators, a shipping company provides services to cater to the town's need of reliable vessel to transfer commodities to and from Cawayan for trade. It departs daily from Cawayan usually at 12:00 noon for a six-hour trip and docks at Pulambato Port in Bogo City, Cebu. And at around 12:00 midnight it sails back to Cawayan Port.\n\nFor about two years, the RoRo vessel stopped operating in Cawayan, but on October 10, 2012, RoRo service was restarted.\n\nA local crab meat processing industry operates in Peña Island owned by Arturo Marcaida Jr. He is considered as the most successful fisherman who made it big in fish culture and fish processing business not only in Masbate but in the entire Bicol Region which earned for him the title “Crab King\".\n\nAnother booming industry of the town is the dried fish industry.\n\nCawayan is naturally blessed with beautiful places. Famous hang-outs and tourist spots include the Station of the Cross atop Mount Begia; tropical islets of Naro and Peña; a marine sanctuary across Recodo Bay; and a wide stretch of beaches among others.\n\nTourists can also enjoy visiting downtown during Sundays at Barangay Divisoria which has one of the largest open markets in the Philippines.\n\nSecondary schools:\n\nTertiary schools:\n\n"}
{"id": "2123542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123542", "title": "John Connor", "text": "John Connor\n\nJohn Connor is a fictional character and the protagonist of the \"Terminator\" franchise. Created by writer and director James Cameron, the character is first referred to in the 1984 film \"The Terminator\" and first appears in its 1991 sequel \"\" (\"T2\"). In the character's first appearance, John is portrayed by Edward Furlong as a child, and briefly by Michael Edwards as an adult in a small role. Other actors have portrayed the character in subsequent films, including Nick Stahl, Christian Bale, and Jason Clarke. In addition, Thomas Dekker portrayed John Connor in the television series \"\".\n\nIn the fictional universe's narrative, John Connor is a messianic figure (born on February 28, 1985) who will lead the Resistance to defeat an empire of robotic Terminators amassed by the rogue military AI Skynet, following a cybernetic revolt doomsday event known as Judgment Day. When his mother Sarah Connor was the target of a time travelling Terminator unit (Model 101) in the first film, John sent resistance fighter Kyle Reese to protect Sarah, knowing Kyle and Sarah would later conceive himself. With foreknowledge from his parents, John fends off Terminator assassination attempts in the second and third films before Judgment Day. In the fourth film, John fights with the Resistance in a post-apocalyptic setting after Skynet has taken over. As the series' central plot heavily involves time travel, the story of the character is often non-linear and portrays many possible outcomes, for example \"Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines\" and television series \"Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles\" continue from the ending of \"Terminator 2\" but are depicted as taking place in alternate timelines, while \"Terminator Genisys\" (2015) revisits and changes the events of the first film. \"\" also ignores the films that came after the second film.\n\nIn \"The Terminator\", John is mentioned and is the basis of the film. The Terminator (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is attempting to kill Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton) because the latter will be his mother, but John does not make a physical appearance. But at the film's end, Sarah is shown to be pregnant with John.\n\nJohn Connor is played by Edward Furlong in his first appearance in \"\" (a sequel to the first film). He is a 10-year-old juvenile delinquent living with foster parents (Jenette Goldstein and Xander Berkeley) while Sarah Connor (Hamilton) is at a hospital for the mentally insane. Though he is informed of his destiny of his future conflict with Skynet, young John is skeptical of his mother's claims of his fate as humanity's leader. While in an arcade with a friend, the Model 101 (Schwarzenegger) - a reprogrammed android sent by John's future self - and the T-1000 (Robert Patrick) fight over him. This starts a chase sequence where the Model 101 and John try to lose the T-1000; this event validates John's mother's warning to him about Skynet. Later that night, Sarah breaks out and he and the Model 101 go to save Sarah, and the three escape. John teaches the Model 101 how to be like a human; teaching sayings like \"\"hasta la vista\", baby!.\" He forms an emotional bond with the Terminator, coming to regard as a father figure, and does not want the Terminator to destroy himself at the film's end, despite the Terminator's warning that allowing to continue existing creates the risk to recreate Skynet at some future date. John is briefly seen at the film's beginning in a flash-forward as an adult played by Michael Edwards while Dalton Abbot (Linda Hamilton's real-life son) also played the character as a toddler in a dream sequence. An alternate ending takes place in 2027, in which John is a U.S. senator and father to a daughter in a world where Skynet was never able to start its war on humanity.\n\nJohn Connor is portrayed by Nick Stahl in \"\" (set 10 years after the second film). Now a young adult, John has been living off-the-grid after the second film's events, even as the original Judgment Day deadline in 1997 came to pass without incident. His mother eventually developed terminal leukemia and died. In the film, John crosses paths with Katherine \"Kate\" Brewster (Claire Danes), a former classmate from when he was living with his foster parents. He is attacked by a T-X Terminator (Kristanna Loken), which was sent from the future. Unlike predecessors, the T-X's objective was to terminate his future Resistance officers as secondary targets because John's location was unknown. When the T-X encounters John, the T-X changes priority to focus entirely on him and Kate. A protector T-101 (Schwarzenegger), a doppelgänger of John's previous protector, is also sent back in time to protect him, explaining that Judgment Day had only been delayed and is now only hours away. The T-101 also states being sent from the future by Kate, John's future wife and second-in-command - John had actually been killed by that very Terminator on July 4, 2032, as Skynet believed to be the most suitable for such a mission due to John's emotional attachment to said model. John and Kate intend to halt Skynet's launching. The two mistakenly believe Skynet's core is in a facility, only to find themselves locked and protected in a secure bunker as the first nuclear assault is launched on the United States as a result of Skynet's manipulations. Skynet is pure software and has already spread to every server worldwide, making it impossible to shut down. It is via the radios in this bunker that John begins to broadcast messages to lay the groundwork to help survivors and organize the Resistance.\n\nJohn Connor is portrayed by Christian Bale in \"Terminator Salvation\" (which is set in 2018). Now an older, battle-experienced Resistance soldier, he married to Kate Brewster (Bryce Dallas Howard) who serves as a medic and is now pregnant with his child. Kate also assists command with her husband's Tech-Com unit. Since Judgment Day, John has been broadcasting radio messages to both the Resistance forces and surviving refugees in an effort to maintain morale and hope. The story also features new character Marcus Wright (Sam Worthington), and the young Kyle Reese (Anton Yelchin). John starts as one of the many foot soldiers who make up the Resistance movement based in California. Despite having extensive prior knowledge of the machines and Skynet's capabilities, John is largely dismissed by General Hugh Ashdown (Michael Ironside) who runs the resistance organization, considering Connor as a delusional false prophet at best and a dangerous liability to their operations at worst. Nonetheless, there are pockets of people within the Resistance who have come to believe in John's experiences and judgment based on their own first hand experiences serving with him. In addition, the Resistance's majority is gradually losing faith towards the Resistance Command due to Ashdown's ruthless and vicious tactics that cost many of his own soldiers and civilians' lives. Towards the middle of the film, John learns that Kyle has been placed in a detention center by Skynet which is aware of Kyle's future role as John's father, classifying Kyle as its primary target and John as its secondary objective even over the Resistance's current leaders- and sets out to rescue Kyle, with Marcus leading him to the base. Upon arrival, John faces off with a T-800 crafted in the unit's image that he and his family have encountered previously. John is hurt during his encounter with the T-800 and receives multiple cuts to the face, mirroring the same scars seen on John's face in the opening scenes of \"Terminator 2: Judgment Day\" and \"Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines\". Marcus helps him destroy the T-800 but John's heart is too badly damaged due to injury and Marcus offers his own to John. In addition, after the Resistance Command is caught into Skynet's trap, John's Tech-Com unit takeover the authority with no opposition. John's ending statement is that though this battle has been won, the war is far from over.\n\nJohn Connor is portrayed by Jason Clarke in \"Terminator Genisys\" (which alters the last three films' events). Following a confrontation with a T-5000 (Matt Smith) on the war's seemingly final day just as Kyle Reese (Jai Courtney) is being sent back to save Sarah Connor (Emilia Clarke), John is forcibly transformed into the T-3000 cyborg as a result of a Skynet program to use nanites to convert living flesh into machine matter. Although all other recorded test subjects for this process were left irreversibly insane and then died during the transformation, John came through the process reasonably intact, albeit now a sociopath dedicated to ensuring Skynet's rise at humanity's cost. Skynet then sends the T-3000 back in time to ensure its creation in the altered timeline, John now believing that the future requires man and machine to come together like he has. He travels back in time to 2014 and joins Cyberdyne Systems to help create a new version of Skynet, working with Miles Dyson and Danny Dyson to perfect development of the new Genisys system, turning Skynet into a massive digital network rather than a single computer system. Three years later, despite his superior physical strength, he was destroyed by \"Pops\" (Schwarzenegger) – a T-800 reprogrammed and sent into the past by an unknown party to protect Sarah – when both of them were trapped inside a prototype time machine. With the machine just capable of generating the electromagnetic energy that prevented non-living tissue travelling through time without actually generating a temporal portal, Connor is ripped apart while trapped at the heart of the machine after earlier battle-damage disrupted his ability to maintain his organic shell. It is ambiguous as to whether a version of the character will exist in the altered timeline, with John himself stating that his existence is a paradox that is no longer tied to Sarah and Kyle conceiving him.\n\nJohn Connor appears in the opening scene of \"\", set three years after the events of \"Judgment Day\". In Guatemala, John and Sarah are found by a T-800 that was sent by Skynet to kill him. John is shot dead by the T-800, which leaves shortly thereafter.\n\nLater in the film, Sarah learns that a woman named Daniella \"Dani\" Ramos will eventually take John's place as the leader of the human resistance against a new artificial intelligence network, Legion. In the future, Dani forms a parent-child relationship with one of her subordinates, Grace, mirroring John's relationship with Reese. When Legion sends a new advanced Terminator, the Rev-9, to the past to kill Dani as a teenager, Dani sends Grace to protect her younger self.\n\nThomas Dekker portrays John Connor in the parallel universe television series \"\". He is only fifteen years old at the beginning of the show, turning sixteen in the season one finale, and seventeen throughout season two. As the series progresses, John struggles with his feelings for the Terminator Cameron. John De Vito plays a young John Connor in two episodes \"Queen's Gambit\" and \"To the Lighthouse\".\n\nDekker was cast after Lena Headey secured the role of Sarah Connor. Regarding the \"Terminator\" films, Dekker says \"They are like my favorite films when I was younger. So it's very ironic that I'm getting to do this. And I know for the younger generation and for myself, John was equally important to me as Sarah was, and I know a lot of the people that I hear from really, really care about John\". Dekker described his character as \"a continuation of Eddie Furlong's character\" but \"he's in a darker, more mature place now\".\n\nThe show tells the story of the Connors in alternate timeline from \"Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines\". It branches off from the shared back story of \"Terminator 2\", and according to consulting producer James Middleton \"is [a new] version of \"T3\".\"\n\nAt the beginning of the series in 1999, John and Sarah try to settle down to normal lives after the events of the second film, but they are in fear of being captured for blowing up Cyberdyne. While at school, John is attacked by a Terminator posing as a teacher, and is protected by a reprogrammed Terminator named \"Cameron\". John learns that Judgment Day has not been prevented, only postponed to April 21, 2011. John does not want to run anymore and asks Sarah to stop Skynet from being created. Cameron uses time dilation technology (built by \"The Engineer\" from the future) to send all three of them to 2007, just before Skynet is created, so that they can stop it.\n\nSettling down in 2007, John enrolls in Campo de Cahuenga High School under the name of John Baum, after author L. Frank Baum who wrote \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\", a book that Sarah says was John's favorite when he was younger, where he is friends with his fellow students and Riley Dawson. He becomes acquainted with his father's older brother, Derek Reese, who is also a resistance fighter sent back in time to help them. This version of John is shown to be a highly skilled computer hacker (a nod from \"Terminator 2\"), even being able to hack into 's CPU in order to read the information it contains, as well as easily hacking into the LAPD database. He claims that he could hack a computer system 'in (his) sleep'. He is also proficient in chess, lock-picking, self-defense, and weaponry, all of which were part of his training during his childhood. The relationship dynamic between John and Cameron is different than with the Model 101 seen in the second film by virtue of her size/gender, with some degree of sexual tension. He also develops a relationship with Riley Dawson, a high school classmate, who, unknown to him, is also from the future and working with Jesse Flores, a resistance fighter and lover of Derek Reese. Jesse's plan was for John to become infatuated with Riley, making her a threat to John's security. This would force Cameron to kill Riley, thereby alienating John from her. Apparently, after Judgment Day, rumors abound of an unnatural relationship between the two that affects John's tactical decision making, and some are unsettled that he has appointed a Terminator as one of his lieutenants.\n\nJohn Connor appears in the video game \"Terminator Salvation\", which is set two years before the events of the film. In 2016, John (voiced by Gideon Emery) and Blair Williams (Moon Bloodgood) are on a mission to rescue David Weston (Sean Cory Cooper), until they team up with Angie Salter (Rose McGowan) and Barnes (Common) to fight the machines.\n\nJohn Connor appears in the video game \"Terminator: Resistance\", which is set during the original future war depicted in the first two Terminator films. He is voiced by Eric Meyers and serves as the player character, Jacob Rivers's commanding officer within the Tech-Com Resistance group. John makes a physical appearance towards the endgame where he briefs and debriefs Jacob during the final assault on Skynet's base.\n\nFurlong reprised his role from \"Terminator 2\" in this Universal Studios attraction, in which he and a T-800 attempt to stop Judgment Day. They travel to the future and infiltrate Cyberdyne to prevent the completion of Skynet. After fighting various machines and succeeding in their mission, John is sent back to the present.\n\nWith the success of \"T2\", John Connor would appear in the non-canon Terminator/Superman crossover \"\", where DC Comics and Dark Horse Comics teamed Sarah and John Connor up with the Man of Steel in an adventure that pitted Superman up against not only Skynet, but also against his old rival The Cyborg. In this adventure, while trying to protect Sarah and young John, Superman is pulled into the future - the resistance had attempted to recover a Terminator that Skynet had sent back earlier but the machine targeted Superman by mistake, and is then able to help the older John, as well as an older John Henry Irons (AKA Steel) take down Skynet once and for all. Meanwhile, back in the past Cyborg makes a deal with Skynet - leaving a message in a Terminator's skull about Superman's weaknesses and subsequently allying himself with a T-X sent back from the future to assist him, while Supergirl, Superboy, and even Lex Luthor continue to protect Sarah and young John from wave after wave of Terminator cyborgs, the later models being specifically upgraded to cope with the Superman family. The story concludes with Superman having aided the resistance in destroying Skynet by detonating an EMP in Earth's atmosphere powerful enough to shut down Earth's machines before returning to the past, where the Cyborg is defeated and all Terminator components disposed of in the sun. However, at the end of the comic it is revealed that Lex Luthor has multiple parts of other Terminators. He was continuing to research them since he never was able to capture a fully functional Terminator. This leads the reader to believe that Luthor played a hand in Skynet's creation in the future.\n\nFurlong won an MTV Movie Award and a Saturn Award for his performance in \"Terminator 2: Judgment Day\", while Bale was nominated for a Teen Choice Award for his performance in \"Terminator Salvation\".\n\nThe decision to kill John off in the opening scene of \"Dark Fate\" was met with an overwhelmingly negative reaction.\n\nFred Hawson of \"ABS-CBN News\" wrote: \"By deciding to lose John Connor early on in this one made the emotional heart of the first two classic \"Terminator\" films stop beating as well.\" Richard Roeper of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" argued that killing John Connor ruined what the previous two films established: \"Even though \"Dark Fate\" tosses aside the third, fourth and fifth entries in the series like a Terminator disposing of a hapless cop, it also undercuts the impact of the first film and the follow-up (which is one of the two or three greatest sequels of all time). First, they get rid of the John Connor character in almost casual fashion.\" He also stated: \"This three-quel, if you will, is so derivative of \"Judgment Day\", they should have asked us to forget about that movie as well if they wanted us to believe it has anything fresh or original to add to the franchise.\"\n\nCorey Plante of \"Inverse\", who was critical of Furlong's portrayal of the character in \"Terminator 2\", ironically found his character's death off-putting: \"The character at the focus of every previous \"Terminator\" movie — the same young boy I irrationally hated since I was a young boy myself — was dead. Needless to say, it rattled me.\" He also found that replacing him with new heroes undermined the Connors' importance established in the previous films: \"The future that made [Sarah Connor] important died with John, and now there's a new \"Terminator\" story with a new set of heroes that makes it seem like no matter how many times Skynet or its next iteration sends a murder robot back in time to kill someone, there will always be a new hero waiting to rise up.\" Robert Yaniz Jr. of \"CheatSheet\" described the twist as unthinkable: \"In an instant, the entire crux of the franchise — the human resistance led by John — is torn away.\" Di Placido put the killing of John Connor at the top of his list of things wrong with \"Dark Fate\" and predicted that the film would fail at the box office because of it: \"Those first five minutes completely disregard the only sequel that fans love – \"Terminator 2\". What was the point of all that struggle, all of Sarah's desperate attempts to keep herself, and her son, alive? John Connor might be dead weight at this point, narratively speaking, but he was our main connection to the original films, and his death renders both of those movies pointless.\"\n\nMatt Goldberg of \"Collider\" felt the opening did irreparable damage to the legacy of \"Terminator 2\" by rendering it pointless: \"Every sequel since has diminished the ending of \"Judgment Day\" because the story 'needs' to continue (because studios like money and can't leave well enough alone). But \"Terminator: Dark Fate\" may be the worst offender thus far as its prologue directly follows \"T2\" and goes for shock value rather than considering what it means to continue the narrative.\" Richard Trenholm of \"CNET\" felt the opening twist summed up everything wrong with \"Dark Fate\": \"The joy [of seeing the de-aged characters] instantly becomes cringeworthy, as this prologue undermines \"Terminator 2\" by killing a major character in such a cursory fashion it just feels silly.\"\n\nIan Sandwell of \"Digital Spy\" suggested that the twist was not particularly important given that in the other films John Connor only exists to \"motivate the other characters and sets the plot in motion\", and that John's role as a future leader had already been rendered moot through the elimination of Skynet.\n\nAbout the controversial scene, Furlong also responded negatively, and expressed his hope of one day reprising the role for an entire future film.\n"}
{"id": "2123545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123545", "title": "Dimasalang", "text": "Dimasalang\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIn 1951 the barrios of Palanas, Nipa, Nabangig, Banco, Pina, Maanahao, Salvacion, Antipolo, Malatawan, Intusan, Miabas, San Antonio, Libtong, Malibas, Santa Cruz, Bontod and Cabil-isan were separated to form the town of Palanas.\n\nDimasalang is politically subdivided into 20 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Dimasalang was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2123547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123547", "title": "Esperanza, Masbate", "text": "Esperanza, Masbate\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nAbout 60% of the population lives along the coastline, most of whom are fishermen. It is about 4 hours travel south of Masbate City with some roads and highways still undeveloped.\n\nEsperanza has several beaches, among them Gamay Na Baybay Beach, Talisay (Punta) Beach and Manok Manok Beach. Esperanza is a predominantly Cebuano speaking municipality, with a majority of its settlers tracing their ancestries from northern Cebu, particularly from the Bogo. Esperanza is the only predominantly Cebuano speaking municipality in Masbate.\n\nPeople in the 1970s to early 1990s were heavily dependent on the water resources in the so-called \"Kapayawan\", which means \"deep well\". It is the only safe water source for the majority of the people living in the area. In 2000, Esperanza was finally connected to the electricity grid supplied by MASELCO which benefited 80% of the households in the area.\n\nIn 2006, President Gloria Arroyo defined Esperanza to be the most accessible town in Masbate going to Samar, Leyte and Cebu. That is the primary reason why the National Government constructed the port to serve as a roll-on/roll-off (RORO) gateway. The RORO vessels coming from Masbate docks at the RORO Port located at Barangay Polambato, Bogo City, Cebu.\n\nEsperanza is about Four (4) hours land travel South from Masbate City, the last municipality in the south located between Placer in north-west and Pio V Corpus in southeast and considered as among the smallest in the island. Esperanza was initially one of the barangays of the town of Placer.\n\nIn early 1915, a group of first settlers [Conag, Arabis, Pelayo and Serafin families] sailed from northern Cebu using their paddled banca and settled the place. The settlers actively cultivated the area into a productive agricultural community, developing the place until eventually called “Halabangbaybay”. Halabangbaybay means [Long Beach], due to its elongated shoreline and white fine sand. Halabangbaybay at that era was a green-mountainous forest community. It was not recognized as a barrio or even a mere sitio.\n\nIn the 1940s, Halabangbaybay became a sitio of the barrio Alegria in Cataingan. Soon after, it was converted into a barrio named Esperanza as a barangay of Placer in 1948 (the year the barrio Placer was separated from Cataingan and constituted as its own municipality) and Pablo M. Conag served as the “teniente del Barrio”. The name Esperanza means \"Hope\" in reference to the first group of migrants in 1915 who hoped for a better life by settling on the present day area of Esperanza.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, Lawyer Alfonso E. Conag [One of the sons of Felimon Serafin Conag] initiated vigorously and pursued for the conversion of Esperanza into an independent municipality. Esperanza officially became an independent municipality on by virtue of Executive Order No. 337 of May 7, 1959.\n\nOn July 2, 1959, the set of municipal officials started to hold office and Santos Edem Conag, the eldest son of Felimo Serafin Conag, became the first elected mayor.\n\nAs of August 1, 2007, Esperanza has a total population of 16,834 according to National Statistic Office data.\n\nEsperanza is politically subdivided into 20 barangays. Esperanza has eleven barangays located along the coastal line and nine in farm areas with an estimated of seventy 70% of the population belongs to the fisher folks.\n\nWeather in Esperanza is generally divided into two seasonal weather patterns known locally as the Amihan and Habagat seasons. In the Tagalog language, Amihan means a cool north-east wind, and Habagat means west or south-west wind; south-west monsoon. Amihan and Habagat seasons are generally associated respectively with the El Niño and La Niña global weather patterns. The Amihan season is characterized by moderate temperatures, little or no rainfall, and a prevailing wind from the east. The Habagat season is characterized by hot and humid weather, frequent heavy rainfall, and a prevailing wind from the west.\n\nOn Esperanza, the main indicator of the switch between the Amihan and Habagat seasonal patterns is the switch in wind direction. In most years this transition is abrupt and occurs overnight. In some years there is a period of perhaps a week or two where the wind will switch between Amihan and Habagat patterns several times before settling into the pattern for the new season. As a rule of thumb, Labangtatay will be in the Habagat weather pattern from sometime in September or October to sometime in May or June and in the Amihan weather pattern for the remainder of the year. These dates can vary in individual years, though.\n\nDaytime temperatures on Esperanza generally range from 77-90 °F (25-32 °C) from the beginning of the Amihan season into February or March, increase to the 82-100 °F (28-38 °C) range until the onset of the Habagat season, and moderate back to the 77-90 °F (25-32 °C) range with the return of the Amihan season.[8] During Tropical Storm periods, temperatures can fall below 68 °F (20 °C). Tropical Storms can impact Esperanza at any time of year, but are most likely to be seen during the Habagat season.\n\nIn the , the population of Esperanza, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\nIn Esperanza, the two main modes of transport are via motor-tricycles along the main road or by walking along the beaches. Pedicabs are also available for transport along the beachfront path. Other means of transportation include mountain bikes, quad bikes, and motorbikes, all of which can be rented.\n\nTo explore around the island's coast, motorized bancas and sailing paraws are available for rent. These are outrigger canoes and are a common sight in waters around the island. The sailing paraw is a narrow hulled boat with outriggers on either side and with passengers sometimes seated on a trampoline platform between the outrigger supports. These are extremely fast off the wind but can be unwieldy for inexperienced sailors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123549", "title": "Mandaon", "text": "Mandaon\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMandaon is politically subdivided into 26 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Mandaon, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe municipality is home to the 3,668-hectare campus of the only state college in the province of Masbate: the Dr. Emilio B. Espinosa Sr. Memorial State College of Agriculture and Technology (DEBESMSCAT), named after the former congressman of the province, Dr. Emilio B. Espinosa, Sr.\n\nThe different high schools in the municipality are the following:\n\n\nElementary Schools\n\n"}
{"id": "2123556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123556", "title": "Milagros, Masbate", "text": "Milagros, Masbate\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is facing the Asid Gulf and is the largest municipality in the province in terms of land area.\n\nMilagros got its name from Spanish word \"Milagro\" meaning miracle. Stories handed down from generation to generation told us that the community was founded by early settlers who are peace loving and faithful converted Christians. Early then, coastal communities are the center of trade and commerce because of its facility to transport goods and products to and from the other communities. These are often the targets of marauding “moro” bandits who pillage and wreak havoc to victim communities. News of the atrocities caused by these heartless invaders sent shivers to the bones of those unwarring communities.\n\nOne day a flotilla of vintas with armed men aboard anchored at the bay ready to attack on signal. People scampered to safety to neighboring hills leaving behind the weak, the sick and the old. Being true believers of the Christian faith, they implored the aid of their patron Saint, St. Joseph to spare them from the wrath of these heartless invaders. Their prayers were not left unanswered. Every time these invaders are poised to attack, they saw myriads of armed combatants with guns and cannons lined up at the shore in defense position, thus giving the bandits second thoughts of pursuing their attack. Every time these bandits are set to attack these armed combatants always appear. Sensing that they are vulnerable to these invincible defenders, the “moro” bandits called off the attack.\n\nThis always happened whenever there were invaders who threaten the peaceful community. News of these events circulated among other bandit groups, which eventually deter them from raiding the community.\n\nFor these countless miracles, the community was called “MILAGROS”.\n\nMilagros is located at the southern part of the Masbate Island duplicating boomerang shape of the Island. It is bounded out the north by the Mobo, Baleno, Masbate City, Mobo, North – East by Uson North West by Aroroy, Mandaon and Balud, On the East by the Municipality of Cawayan and to the south by Asid Gulf.\n\nIt is the largest municipality of the province with an area of 56, 540 hectares. It is composed of 27 barangay with one island barangay and one island sitio. It has an estimated population of 50, 100 for the year 2007.\n\nMilagros is one of the original municipalities of Masbate since its creation as a New Province by virtue of Philippine Commission Act. No. 105 enacted on March 18 1901. It is the mother municipality of Cawayan, Balud and Mandaon until their creation under Executive Order 244.\n\nThe municipality is endowed with rich mineral resources the as of to date has partially been tapped. Manganese is being extracted at barangays Pamangpangon and Taisan and as being exported to Japan. Large deposit of white clay, which maybe used in making of porcelain products and other novelty items can be found at Barangay Bonbon and Matanglad. Other precious minerals such as gold, copper and silver are also present in the area.\n\nThe municipality is bounded on the south by Asia Gulf which is part of the Visayan Sea, a rich existing fishing ground.\n\nAware of the need to conserve, protect and manage our marine resources, the LGU has passed the Municipal Fishery Ordinance and Instituted the Coastal Resource Management Program.\n\nUnder this program, Bangad Fish Sanctuary was established and Mangrove Reforestation was launched and sustained. Fish wardens are trained and deputized. Other coastal barangays has resorted to seaweeds farming as alternative livelihood and to prevent corals and sea grass from further degradation from drag net and trawl fishing.\n\nIn the , the population of Milagros, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe former dominant political clan in Milagros was the De Jesus Clan and followed by the Abapo Clan. In 2015, former Milagros town Mayor Bernardito Abapo was arrested in a raid by the Philippine National Police and Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency on a suspected drug laboratory in Masbate province. The results of the 2007 Local Elections replaced the Abapo Clan by the Magbalon Clan Dr. Natividad Isabel Revil-Magbalon finished her 3-consecutive terms or a total of 9 years as being the mayor of the municipality. Since Dr. Natividad Isabel Magbalon can no longer run for mayor, her husband Jose Magbalon Jr. run on her behalf and won the 2016 elections with 51.2% votes over his opponent Bobet Trias.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123557", "title": "Mobo, Masbate", "text": "Mobo, Masbate\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMobo is politically subdivided into 29 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Mobo, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2123558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123558", "title": "Monreal, Masbate", "text": "Monreal, Masbate\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is located on the northern part of Ticao Island.\n\nMonreal is politically subdivided into 11 barangays.\n\n\nIn the , the population of Monreal, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\nMonreal's local economy is based on fishing. A local conservation effort to protect the environment lead to the development of tourism industry in the municipality. The Halea Island Retreat and Nature Park is the number one attraction for tourists both local and foreign, creating employment opportunities for the local folks and generating revenues for the local government in terms of taxes.\n\nThe municipality is part of Ticao island, which is known as an \"archaeological landscape\", possessing thousands of pre-colonial artifacts such as the Baybayin-inscribed Rizal Stone, Ticao gold spike teeth, Burial jars of varrying designs and sizes, jade beads, human face rock statues, and the \"Ticao petrographs\".Much of the homes in Ticao island use these archaeological finds to design their interiors. The island is also an \"ecological frontier\" for the conservation of manta rays. The island also possesses a 'rare subspecies' of Visayan warty pig that is almost near extinction.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123559", "title": "Palanas, Masbate", "text": "Palanas, Masbate\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nPalanas was created in 1951 from the barrios of Palanas, Nipa, Nabangig, Banco, Pina, Maanahao, Salvacion, Antipolo, Malatawan, Intusan, Miabas, San Antonio, Libtong, Malibas, Santa Cruz, Bontod and Cabil-isan of Dimasalang. It annually celebrates \"Pasayaw sa Leon\" Festival (The Lion Dance Festival) every 19 December.\n\nPalanas is politically subdivided into 24 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Palanas, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2123560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123560", "title": "Pio V. Corpuz, Masbate", "text": "Pio V. Corpuz, Masbate\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nPio V. Corpus was formerly known as Limbuhan. In 1951, the barrios of Limbuhan, Guindawahan, Palho, Casabangan, Salvacion, Alegria, Tanque, Bunducan, Bugtong, and Cabangrayan were separated from the town of Cataingan and created into the town of Limbuhan. The town got its current name in 1954, and was named after the former Congressman and Governor, Pio Vicente Corpus (1883–1944). Born on July 11, 1883 in Nueva Ecija, he migrated to Masbate and he would later serve in the war time Japanese sponsored Government and was unfortunately assassinated by the Japanese Intelligence due to mistrust on February 7, 1944 in Manila. Its first mayor was Daniel Señoron. \n\nPio V. Corpuz is politically subdivided into 18 barangays. Sitio Bugang was converted into a barrio in 1957.\n\n\nIn the , the population of Pio V. Corpuz was people, with a density of .\n\nRizalina \"Dayan\" Seachon-Lanete, Former 3rd district Representative and Former Governor of Province of Masbate\n\nScott Davies \"S\" S. Lanete, 3rd district Representative, Chairperson on House Committee on Public Information\n\nFausto \"Portus/Ka Boss\" L. Seachon, former Municipal Mayor, and former Congressman, brother of Dayan Lanete\n\nJoshur Judd \"J\" S. Lanete II, former Mayor of Placer, son of Dayan Lanete\n\nMac John Seachon, former Mayor of Esperanza and son of late Cong. Portus Seachon\n\nAtty. Jesi Howard \"R\" S. Lanete, lawyer in Flaminiano-Arroyo-Dueñas Law Firm, one of the defense team of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo\n\nDr. Julius Lecciones, Executive Director of Philippine Children's Medical Center\n\nPCSupt. Pedro B. Cabatingan Jr., Chief, Regional Internal Affairs Services of PNP - Region 11\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123561", "title": "Placer, Masbate", "text": "Placer, Masbate\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBy virtue of Republic Act No. 292, passed on June 16, 1948, the barrio of Placer was constituted as its own municipality, separate from Cataingan. At the time of its creation, Placer included the entire present-day municipality of Esperanza, which was then a barrio of Placer (its largest barrio). It is one of the only two municipalities in Masbate which is dominantly Cebuano-speaking, the other being the adjacent municipality of Esperanza; Esperanza separated from Placer in 1959.\n\nPlacer is politically subdivided into 35 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Placer, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2123562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123562", "title": "San Fernando, Masbate", "text": "San Fernando, Masbate\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is located on Ticao Island. The economy of the town is based on fishing, farming, and other trades.\n\nIn 1951, the barrios of Batuan, Burgos, Gibraltar, Costa Rica, Panisihan, and Matabao were separated from San Fernando to form the town of Batuan.\nThe municipality is part of Ticao Island, which is known as an \"archaeological landscape\", possessing thousands of pre-colonial artifacts such as the Baybayin-inscribed Rizal Stone, Ticao gold spike teeth, Burial jars of varrying designs and sizes, jade beads, human face rock statues, and the \"Ticao petrographs\". Much of the homes in Ticao Island use these archaeological finds to design their interiors. The island is also an \"ecological frontier\" for the conservation of manta rays. The island also possesses a 'rare subspecies' of Visayan warty pig, that is almost near extinction.\n\nSan Fernando is politically subdivided into 26 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of San Fernando, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2123564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123564", "title": "San Jacinto, Masbate", "text": "San Jacinto, Masbate\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is located on Ticao Island.\n\nThe municipality is part of Ticao island, which is known as an \"archaeological landscape\", possessing thousands of pre-colonial artifacts such as the Baybayin-inscribed Rizal Stone, Ticao gold spike teeth, Burial jars of varrying designs and sizes, jade beads, human face rock statues, and the \"Ticao petrographs\". Much of the homes in Ticao island use these archaeological finds to design their interiors. The island is also an \"ecological frontier\" for the conservation of manta rays. The island also possesses a 'rare subspecies' of Visayan warty pig, that is almost near extinction.\n\nSan Jacinto is politically subdivided into 21 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of San Jacinto, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2123565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123565", "title": "San Pascual, Masbate", "text": "San Pascual, Masbate\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIn addition to the northern part of Burias Island, the islands of Busing, Templo (or Iniwaran,) and another six small unpopulated islands belong to the municipality.\n\nSan Pascual is politically subdivided into 22 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of San Pascual, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\nOne of the popular tourist destinations in the municipality of San Pascual is the Sombrero Island with its pure white sand beach.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123566", "title": "Uson, Masbate", "text": "Uson, Masbate\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is about southeast of Masbate City, connected by a paved coastal road, and located on Uson Bay which has an approximate area of . \n\nThe municipality is bounded by the municipality of Mobo on the north with the Balatucan river; on the east Uson is bounded by the Barangay Balocawe of the municipality of Dimasalang; on the south it is bounded by the Baldosa river and Palo Bandera of Cawayan; on the west the municipality is bounded by Milagros.\n\nWith and elevation of above sea level, Mount Uac is the highest point of the municipality. The mountain borders the three municipalities of Uson, Mobo and Milagros.\n\nUson has several rivers, including Balucaw River, Buenavista River, Buracan River, Calpi River, Dap-dap River, Mongahay River, Pinangapugan (Quezon) River, and the Sawang River which all flow into Uson Bay. East of the poblacion a lake can be found, Lake Calero.\n\nThe Philippine Fault System from which almost all of the recorded strong earthquakes in the Philippines emanated, traverses eastern Uson. As a result, strong seismic activity in the form of frequent earthquakes can be experienced. Link to PHIVOLCS website\n\nUson is politically subdivided into 35 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Uson, Masbate, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2123567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123567", "title": "The Word (song)", "text": "The Word (song)\n\n\"The Word\" is a song by English rock group the Beatles, written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney and recorded with Lennon on lead vocals. It was first released on their 1965 album \"Rubber Soul\".\n\nThe song was co-written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney. According to Lennon, it was written together but it was \"mainly mine\". They wrote it after smoking marijuana, something they had not done before in a composing session, which from McCartney's perspective (opposite to Lennon's), \"got in the way of songwriting\". McCartney on the subject:\nWe smoked a bit of pot, then we wrote out a multicoloured lyric sheet, the first time we'd ever done that. We normally didn't smoke when we were working. It got in the way of songwriting because it would just cloud your mind up – \"Oh, shit, what are we doing?\" It's better to be straight. But we did this multicolour thing.\n\nMusically, the song is founded on a driving funk beat, with few chord changes and a simple melody in the key of D major. (The refrain is a 12 bar blues in D. The main chord is D7(9), also used in \"Drive My Car\" and \"Taxman\". The two line verse uses D7, C7, F13, and G7.)\n\nPaul McCartney said of this song, \"John and I would like to do songs with just one note like 'Long Tall Sally'. We get near it in 'The Word'\".\n\nGeorge Martin plays the harmonium solo in the track. McCartney, Lennon, and Harrison sing the song in three-part harmony. Lennon sings the middle eight by himself.\n\nSamples from this song are also included on \"Love\" released in November 2006, in the track \"Drive My Car/The Word/What You're Doing\".\n\nJohn Lennon gave Yoko Ono the original sheets to the song just before their relationship began.\n\nIn his review for the 50th anniversary of \"Rubber Soul\", Jacob Albano of \"Classic Rock Review\" writes that \"The Word\" is the first song on its parent album not to be \"absolutely excellent,\" calling the harmonies \"a bit too forced.\" However, Albano still considered the song \"entertaining\", and complimented the \"piano backdrop\" and Starr's drum performance.\n\nIn 2018, the music staff of \"Time Out London\" ranked \"The Word\" at number 33 on their list of the best Beatles songs.\n\nPaul McCartney has played a medley version of \"The Word\"/\"All You Need Is Love\" on his On the Run Tour.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123578", "title": "Kim Darby", "text": "Kim Darby\n\nKim Darby (born Deborah Zerby; July 8, 1947) is an American actress best known for her role as Mattie Ross in the film \"True Grit\" (1969).\n\nDarby was born Deborah Zerby in Los Angeles, the daughter of professional dancers Inga (Wiere) and Jon Zerby (the \"Dancing Zerbys\" or \"Dancing Zerbies\"). Her father nicknamed her Derby saying \"I thought Derby Zerby would be a great stage name\". Her mother was from Budapest. Her mother's siblings were comedians who performed as the Wiere Brothers.\n\nShe performed as a singer and dancer under the name \"Derby Zerby\". Believing that she could not \"hope for serious important roles in films with a name like \"Derby Zerby\", she renamed herself \"Kim\", because it was the name of a popular girl in her high school that she admired, and \"Darby\", as a variation of \"Derby\".\n\nDarby began acting at age fifteen. Her first appearance was as a dancer in the film \"Bye Bye Birdie\" (1963). Her television work included \"Gunsmoke\" (1967 episodes \"The Lure\" and \"Vengeance\"); \"Bonanza\" (1967 episode \"The Sure Thing\"); and as a young girl reaching adulthood on an all-child planet in the haunting, renowned episode \"\" on the original \"\" series.\n\nAmong her many films are \"True Grit\", in which she played a fourteen-year-old when she was twenty-one years old; \"The Strawberry Statement\" (1970); \"Norwood\" (1970);\"The One and Only\" (1978); \"Better Off Dead\" (1985); and \"\" (1995).\n\nDarby's 1960s television roles included two appearances on the NBC series \"Mr. Novak\", starring James Franciscus; she was cast as Julie Dean in \"To Lodge and Dislodge\" (1963) and as Judy Wheeler in \"The Silent Dissuaders\" (1965).\n\nDarby also appeared about this time on \"The Eleventh Hour\", \"The Fugitive\", \"The Donna Reed Show\", \"Ironside\", and in the first season of \"Star Trek\" as the title character in . \nDarby was cast in an episode of the NBC sitcom \"The John Forsythe Show\" (\"'Tis Better Have Loved and Lost\", 1965). and as Angel in the two-part \"Gunsmoke\" episode \"Vengeance\". She appeared in the episode \"Faire Ladies of France\" (1967) of the NBC western series \"The Road West\" starring Barry Sullivan and a \"Bonanza\" episode \"A Sure Thing\" (1967) as Trudy Loughlin, guest starring Tom Tully as Burt Loughlin, her father.\n\nShe appeared in 3 episodes of \"Gunsmoke\": \"The Lure\" (1967) as Carrie Neely, \"Vengeance: Part 1\" (1967) as Angel, and \"Vengeance: Part 2\" (1967) again as Angel. She was cast in the 1972 movie, \"The People,\" which also starred William Shatner, reuniting them from their \"Star Trek\" appearance. She played the unhinged Virginia Calderwood in the first television miniseries, \"Rich Man, Poor Man\" in 1976.\n\nDarby had the central role of Sally Farnham in the made-for-TV chiller \"Don't Be Afraid of the Dark\" (1973). Subsequent television roles included guest appearances on \"Crazy Like a Fox\", \"Family\", \"The Love Boat\", \"The Streets of San Francisco\", \"Riptide\", and \"Becker\".\n\nDarby admitted her career declined after the 1970s partly because she became an amphetamine addict.\n\nIn 1990, she began to teach acting in the Los Angeles area and has been an instructor in the Extension Program at the University of California, Los Angeles since 1992. Darby also appeared in an episode of \"The X-Files\" (\"Sein und Zeit\", 1999) as a woman who confessed to the murder of her son: a boy who disappeared under circumstances similar to those being investigated by the lead characters, Fox Mulder and Dana Scully.\n\nIn 2014, she played Stacia Clairborne, a partially blind witness to a crime, in the episode \"Prologue\" of the show \"Perception\".\n\nDarby continues to make guest appearances on television and to make occasional films.\n\nDarby has been married twice. In 1968, she married James Stacy, with whom she had one child, Heather Elias, born in 1968. Their marriage ended in divorce in 1969. In 1970, she married James Westmoreland; the marriage ended in divorce after less than two months.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123601", "title": "Bush band", "text": "Bush band\n\nA bush band is a group of musicians that play Australian bush ballads. A similar bush band tradition is also found in New Zealand.\n\nIn addition to vocals, instruments featured in bush bands may include fiddle, accordion, guitar, banjo, mandolin, concertina, harmonica, lagerphone, bush bass (tea chest bass) or double bass, tin whistle, and bodhrán. Less common are the piano, bones, barcoo dog (a sheep herding tool used as a sistrum), spoons, and musical saw. Although not traditional, electric bass guitar or electric guitar have occasionally been used since the 1970s.\n\nBush bands play music for bush dances, in which the dance program is usually based on dances known to have been danced in Australia from colonial times to the folk revival in the 1950s. Contemporary dances, set in the traditional style, are also featured at bush dances.\n\nSome popular traditional bush dances are Stockyards, Haymaker's Jig, Galopede, Brown Jug Polka, Virginia Reel and barn dance. Popular contemporary bush dances include Blackwattle Reel, Jubilee Jig, CHOGM Pentrille, Knocking Down His Cheque and Midnight Schottische.\n\nBush bands also play bush ballads, many of which date to the 19th century. Among the most notable bush lyricists was the poet Banjo Paterson (1864–1941).\n\nThe Bush Music Club, based in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, hold regular bush dances and Colonial Balls where bush bands perform.\n\nBush bands, as currently formulated, experienced a revival in 1953 with the musical play \"Reedy River\", which was first produced and published by the New Theatre (Sydney) and most recently produced in 2002. Written by Dick Diamond, the musical featured twelve or so Australian songs, which included Doreen Jacobs' setting of Helen Palmer's \"Ballad of 1891,\" as well as the title song, Chris Kempster's setting of Lawson's \"Reedy River.\" The backing band for this popular stage production was \"The Bushwhackers\", who had formed a year earlier in 1952. As the musical was performed in Brisbane and other Australian cities, local \"bush bands\" modeled on the Sydney group, such as Brisbane's \"The Moreton Bay Bushwhackers,\" sprang up in each place; many of these remained together following the closing of the musical, and spawned other, similar groups.\n\nPerhaps the best known bush band internationally, albeit in their later years with the influence of English folk rock bands like Fairport Convention and Steeleye Span, was the Bushwackers (spelt without the \"h\" as in the earlier Bushwhackers Band of the 1950s), who formed in Melbourne and were active from the early 1970s to 1984. The \"Wackers,\" as they are known by their fans, toured around the world and with their larrikin, outgoing style, song books, dance instruction books and records, contributed markedly to the spread of bush music and dancing, especially in Australia. Their style was infused with Celtic music (i.e. reels and jigs) to a greater extent than previous bush bands, and they used an electric bass guitar in place of the more traditional bush bass. The period leading up to and following Australia's Bicentenary, 1988, saw a marked resurgence in bush music and bush dances that lasted for many years.\n\nMany bands also bearing the rock influence and adding original music rode this Australiana wave. Examples are the Ants Bush Band, Eureka!, Skewiff, Rantan Bush Band and Bullamakanka and some bands, including the Bushwackers, still perform on an occasional basis.\n\nIn recent years the emergence of bands such as The Currency (Melbourne), The Handsome Young Strangers (Sydney) Jack Flash (South Queensland) and Sydney City Trash (Sydney) has moved bush music into rock and roll venues and major festival stages, with a blended style that includes rock drums and guitars whilst combining with Celtic influences. The Handsome Young Strangers lean more towards the traditional style of bands such as The Bushwackers, whilst The Currency, Jack Flash and Sydney City Trash incorporate both punk and Celtic styles.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123606", "title": "It's Understood", "text": "It's Understood\n\nIt's Understood is Estradasphere's first studio album. It was released on Mimicry Records on June 26, 2000.\n\nNotably, the first track on the album, \"Hunger Strike\", sets the tone of Estradasphere by covering a wide range of musical genres. The song is just less than twenty minutes long and is the longest studio recording of an Estradasphere song.\n\nTracks 6-9 are songs that form the four part composition titled \"The Princes of Xibalba\".\n\nTracks 2 and 11 are not performed, but electronically sequenced by Tim Smolens and parody the music from popular video games such as Super Mario Bros.\n\nTrack 12 was recorded at a violin recital for Estradasphere member Timb Harris. All other tracks were recorded at ROHYPONOL_Studios911 in 1999.\n\nThe Princes of Xibalba – 11:28\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123611", "title": "Weissite", "text": "Weissite\n\nWeissite is a telluride mineral, a copper telluride (CuTe). Weissite has hexagonal crystal structure. Its specific gravity is 6 and its Mohs hardness is 3. Occurrence is in Gunnison County, Colorado, Arizona and New Mexico in the United States. It is also reported from Kalgoorlie, Western Australia and Dalarna and Värmland, Sweden.\n\nWeissite occurs in hydrothermal deposits associated with pyrite, native tellurium, sylvanite, petzite, rickardite, native sulfur, native gold, calaverite and krennerite.\n\nIt was first described in 1927 for an occurrence in the Good Hope Mine in the Vulcan District of Gunnison County, Colorado. It was named for mine owner Louis Weiss.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123618", "title": "In Dahomey", "text": "In Dahomey\n\nIn Dahomey: A Negro Musical Comedy is a landmark 1903 American musical comedy described by theatre historian Gerald Bordman as \"the first full-length musical written and played by blacks to be performed at a major Broadway house.\" It features music by Will Marion Cook, book by Jesse A. Shipp, and lyrics by poet Paul Laurence Dunbar. It was written by Jesse A. Shipp as a satire on the American Colonization Society's back-to-Africa movement of the earlier nineteenth century.\n\n\"In Dahomey\" is regarded as a marquee turning point for African-American representation in vaudeville theater. It opened on February 18, 1903, at the New York Theatre, starring George Walker and Bert Williams, two iconic figures of vaudeville entertainment at the time. The musical ran for 53 completed performances, including two tours in the United States and one tour of the United Kingdom. In total, \"In Dahomey\" ran for a combined four years.\n\nProduced by McVon Hurtig and Harry Seamon, \"In Dahomey\" was the first to star African-American performers George Walker and Bert Williams, two of the leading comedians in America at the time. \"In Dahomey\" opened on February 18, 1903, at the New York Theatre, and closed on April 4, 1903 after 53 performances (then considered a successful run).\n\nIt had a tour in the United Kingdom, followed by a highly successful tour of the United States, which lasted a total of four years. It was the first American black musical to be performed abroad.\n\nThe musical was revived on Broadway, opening at the Grand Opera House on August 27, 1904 and closing on September 10, 1904 after 17 performances. Bert Williams (as Shylock Homestead), George Walker (as Rareback Pinkerton) and Aida Overton Walker (as Rosetta Lightfoot) reprised their roles.\n\nBased on the show's New York success, the producers of \"In Dahomey\" transferred the entire production to England on April 28, 1903, with a staging at the Shaftesbury Theatre, followed by a provincial tour around England. This was capped by a command performance celebrating the ninth birthday of the eldest son of the Prince of Wales at Buckingham Palace. \"In Dahomey\" was heralded as \"the most popular musical show in London.\"\n\nAfter a year touring England and Scotland, \"In Dahomey\" returned to New York. It reopened on August 27, 1904, at the Grand Opera House. This was followed by a major 40-week tour across the United States. It played such cities as San Francisco, California; Portland, Oregon; and St. Louis, Missouri; turning in a profit of $64,000.\n\nFeaturing the renowned comic pair of Bert Williams and George W. Walker, the show was the first to introduce a critical discourse of African Imperialism into the vaudeville theatre scene. Walker and Williams were said to have emphasized some of the most important components of early 20th-century Black musicals: fast-changing scenery using tableau (presumably painted backdrops), improvisation, traditional Black-facing, heavy pantomime, and interpolation of songs borrowed from other original source-texts.\n\nThe story tells of two conmen from Boston who, having found a pot of gold, devise a plan to move to Africa to colonize Dahomey (present-day Benin) with a group of poor American blacks. Having suffered bad luck, the conmen, Shylock Homestead (played by Bert Williams) and Rareback Punkerton (George Walker) are sent to Florida to con Cicero Lightfoot (Pete Hampton), the president of a colonization society. To his surprise, Punkerton learns that Homestead is rich, and arranges to become his trustee to gain access to Homestead's wealth. Once having been successful with that, Punkerton struts around, acting as a dandy, or a refined figure in black society. Upon realizing Punkerton's schemes, Homestead refuses to continue to support Punkerton's acts, and the show culminates with a spectacular cakewalk.\n\nIn other sources, \"In Dahomey\" is described as following the attempts of two con men (played by Bert Williams and George Walker) charged with recovering a lost heirloom to be flipped for profit. The search for the heirloom crosses paths with a colonization society that intends to settle pioneers in Dahomey. The plot of the original source-text differs, according to many sources, but all agree there were three primary locales in \"In Dahomey\": Boston, Gatorville (Florida), and Dahomey.\n\nA February 1903 New York Theatre program has been found that printed a synopsis that generally concurs with the scenes depicted in extant scripts. The recovered synopsis reads:\n\n\"In Dahomey\" marked an important milestone in the evolution of the American musical comedy. Its composer Will Marion Cook combined the \"high operetta style\" he had studied with the relatively new form of ragtime in the finale \"The Czar of Dixie\". According to John Graziano, author of \"Black Theatre USA\", it was \"the first African American show. The score made use of the \"high operetta style\" that synthesized successfully the various genres of American musical theatre popular at the beginning of the twentieth century—minstrelsy, vaudeville, comic opera, and musical comedy.\"\n\nSignificantly, the production of \"In Dahomey\" marked the first full-length African American musical to be staged in an indoor venue on Broadway, premiering at the New York Theatre on February 18, 1903. The earlier was produced in 1898 at the Roof Garden of a Broadway theater. During its four-year tour, \"In Dahomey\" proved one of the most successful musical comedies of its era. The show helped make its composer, lyricist, and leading performers household names. \"In Dahomey\" was the first black musical to have its score published (albeit in the UK, not the US).\n\nThe play is thought to have marked a significant shift in black theatre performance. Limited by a demand for the comedy of ethnic and racial stereotypes— particularly black stereotypes as depicted through minstrel performance— African-American performers were restricted largely to perform variations of the \"darky\" and the Chinese as caricatures. While still featuring such racial caricatures, \"In Dahomey\" simultaneously builds on depictions of black characters. It creates a significant alternative to the dominant representations of blacks in the theatre during its era.\n\nAs the first show with an entirely African-American cast, \"In Dahomey\" is said to have been met with hostility. One \"New York Times\" report responded to the show by construing it as the initiation of a potential race war, signifying the level of anxiety possessed around the mobility of blacks during the era.\n\n\"In Dahomey\" captures much of the perspective of early 20th-century Broadway. Many songs feature classic vaudevillian elements and dramatic flexibility. Fewer than a half-dozen songs were topically linear to \"In Dahomey\"s driving narrative. Only two songs, \"My Dahomian Queen\" and \"On Broadway in Dahomey Bye and Bye\", refer to the locations and plot integration. Many songs, such as \"Brown-Skin Baby Mine\", \"My Castle on the Nile\", \"Evah Dahkey Is a King\", \"When It's All Goin' Out and Nothin' Comin In\", and \"Good Evenin'\", have been performed in other vaudevillian Broadway shows.\n\nIn its entirety, \"In Dahomey\" featured plenty more secondary characters than its opening stage at the Harry de Jur theatre could comfortably hold.\n\nWalker and Williams produced two more musicals featuring them as the stars, known by the full titles as \"Williams and Walker In Abyssinia\" and \"Walker and Williams in Bandanna Land\" (1907). These works had different themes, staging and locales.\n\nPercy Grainger wrote a virtuosic concert rag entitled \"In Dahomey (Cakewalk Smasher)\", in which he blended tunes from Cook's show and Arthur Pryor's popular cakewalk number, \"A Coon Band Contest\". In this tribute to contemporary African-American music, the clash of the two tunes creates what has been called \"a page of almost Ivesian dissonance\". Grainger may have seen Cook's \"In Dahomey\" on stage in London in 1903. He started composing his rag that year, completing the score some six years later, in 1909.\n\nIn 1894 the comedian Bert Williams was hired to play an African \"native\" at the California Midwinter International Exposition of 1894. The Dahomey natives who had been in the 1893 Chicago World's Fair were late reaching San Francisco, where they were again supposed to occupy the African pavilion.\n\nHaving learned of the use of African and other foreign people in exhibits at the fairs, Jerome Kern and Oscar Hammerstein II wrote a song, \"In Dahomey\", for their 1927 musical, \"Show Boat.\" Intended as the last number in Act II, Scene I, \"In Dahomey\" is performed by a purported group of African natives featured in an exhibit at the 1893 Chicago World's Fair. The song begins with the \"natives\" chanting in what is supposedly an African language. After the watching crowd disperses, they switch to singing in an American dialect, revealing they are American blacks playing roles, not Dahomey natives. The lyrics expressed the relief of the \"natives\" that they could soon go home to their New York apartments. This scene earlier features the \"Act II Opening (Sports of Gay Chicago)\" and the hit love song \"Why Do I Love You?\"\n\nThe song was never a hit. After the 1946 revival of \"Show Boat\" on Broadway, the song \"In Dahomey\" was omitted from the score of \"Show Boat\" and from the cast album recorded of that Broadway production. It has never been used in a film version of the show. It is one of the few songs having no connection to the musical's storyline.\n\nThe song was recorded three times as part of the full musical: in 1928 by the original chorus who performed in the first London production of the show; in 1988 by the Ambrosian Chorus with John McGlinn conducting, who included it in his landmark 1988 EMI recording of the complete score of \"Show Boat\"; and in 1993 for the Studio Cast recording of the 1946 revival version.\n\nA revival of \"In Dahomey\", of title and songs only, was produced at the Henry Street Settlement from June 23-July 25, 1999 in New York City. It was written and directed by Shauneille Perry, who created a new script inspired by characters and songs from the original.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123619", "title": "Ammonium bituminosulfonate", "text": "Ammonium bituminosulfonate\n\nAmmonium bituminosulfonate or ammonium bituminosulphonate (synonyms of ichthammol, CAS# brand name: Ichthyol) is a product of natural origin obtained in the first step by dry distillation of sulfur-rich oil shale (bituminous schists). By sulfonation of the resulting oil (or purified fractions thereof), and subsequent neutralization with ammonia, Ichthammol results as a viscous, water-soluble substance with a characteristic bitumen-like odor. It is used in medicine (sometimes in combination with zinc oxide) as a treatment for different skin diseases, including eczema and psoriasis (see below). Ointments containing 10% or 20% Ichthammol are most common. They are sometimes called \"black ointments\" or \"drawing salves\". Ichthammol's dermatological action was promoted by German physician Paul Gerson Unna.\n\nFrom elemental analysis, its composition was calculated to be CHSO(NH). However, as a product of natural origin, it is a mixture of many different compounds.\n\nChemically, it is a sulfonated shale oil that is incompatible with acids, alkali carbonates or hydrates and alkaloidal salts. It is a thick reddish brown liquid, possessing a bituminous odor and taste. It is soluble in water and miscible with glycerin, but is nearly insoluble in strong alcohol or concentrated ether. It contains a large percentage of organically combined sulfur.\n\nMaterials made in China (Pinyin transcription: yushizhi and yushizhi ruangao) and offered outside China as Ichthammol or Ammonium Bituminosulfonate do not meet the requirements for this substance in the United States Pharmacopoeia (USP) or European Pharmacopoeia (Ph.Eur). Also, there is no conformity with the definition as connected to CAS# 8029-68-3. The Chinese material is derived from vegetable oils (e.g., soybean oil) instead of bituminous schists as required (Chinese definition according to ChP 10: \"Ichthammol is a mixture obtained by sulfuration of vegetable oils (soybean oil, tung oil, corn oil, etc.), sulfonation, and neutralization with ammonia\"). As a result, its chemical basis is totally different from the one of Ichthammol USP/Ph.Eur./CAS# 8029-68-3. The characteristic bitumen-like odor (originating from the bituminous source material) is missing with Chinese material and, thereby, the original qualities according to common standards cannot be identified without doubt. Noncomparable.\"\n\nBituminosulfonates are classified as local therapeutic agents with very good tolerability. Pharmacologically, Ichthammol has anti-inflammatory, bactericidal, and fungicidal properties. It is used to treat eczema, psoriasis, Acne rosacea and acne, and it decreases microorganisms in the area surrounding a skin condition. It is commonly used in 10% or 20% concentrate ointment, applied topically.\n\nIn otology, a mixture of glycerol and ichthammol (G & I) is used for the topical treatment of ear infections. It is effective against Gram-positive organisms. The anti-inflammatory action is explained by its influence on the formation, secretion, and effect of inflammation mediators.\n\nIchthammol is available in pharmacies for compounding medications. Different sources of information exist for exemplary formulations (creams, shake lotions, suppositories, etc.). According to the \"list of preferred Specials\" by the British Association of Dermatologists (BAD) Ichthammol can be used in dermatology prescribing to treat acutely inflamed atopic eczema, among others. A corresponding recommendation exists for bituminosulfonates in Germany. According to “guideline atopic eczema” bituminosulfonates can be considered for treatment of atopic eczema based on general clinic experience.\n\nThe European Medicines Agency published a summary report on ichthyol-substances (synonym: bituminosulfonates) during the course of the European Maximum Residue Limits (MRL) procedure in veterinary medicine. The Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use (CVMP) decided that due to good tolerance and safety, there is no need to establish an MRL for ichthyol-substances. As a result, ichthyol-substances can be applied topically in all mammalian food-producing species without restriction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123625", "title": "Tom O'Hara", "text": "Tom O'Hara\n\nTom O'Hara (July 5, 1942 – August 27, 2019) was an American middle distance runner. He was the first native of the state of Illinois to break the four-minute barrier for the mile run when he ran 3:59.4 in 1963. O'Hara was born in Chicago, Illinois. He also held the world record for fastest mile indoors, which was set when he ran 3:56.6 on February 13, 1964. He beat that record on March 6 of the same year with a time of 3:56.4, a world record, later equalled by Jim Ryun but not beaten for ten years until Tony Waldrop ran 3:55.0 in 1974.\n\nAt St. Ignatius College Prep High School, in Chicago, Illinois, O'Hara was a star runner on the school's cross country and track and field teams, often running—and winning—the quarter mile, half mile, mile, and mile relay in a single meet. He was a member of the Loyola University Chicago track, cross country, and indoor track teams. He was the individual champion of NCAA Men's Division I Cross Country Championship in 1962, and he participated in the 1500 m at the 1964 Summer Olympics, where he qualified for the semi-finals of the 1500 metres.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123631", "title": "The Silent Elk of Yesterday", "text": "The Silent Elk of Yesterday\n\nThe Silent Elk of Yesterday is an EP by Estradasphere, released in 2001. It mostly consists of live tracks.\nDespite being nearly 75 minutes long and containing 18 tracks, it is classified as an EP by the band.\nThe EP is \"in loving memory of Butt Bud\".\n\nTracks 3 and 5 to 18 are recorded live; tracks 1, 2, and 4 are studio recorded.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123634", "title": "Episcopal School of Jacksonville", "text": "Episcopal School of Jacksonville\n\nEpiscopal School of Jacksonville is an independent, coeducational private college preparatory school in Jacksonville, Florida, United States. It was founded in 1966 by the Episcopal Diocese of Florida. The school has a middle school and a high school and enrolls about 900 students a year.\n\nParishioner Mary Packer-Cumming, who died in 1912, willed of land to St. John's Cathedral. The Episcopal Diocese of Florida operated a boys' home on the site from 1921, but this closed in 1953 due to financial problems. At that time the church began to plan to establish a private high school. \n\nJacksonville Episcopal High School opened on September 4, 1967. The name was changed to Episcopal High School of Jacksonville in 1987, and to Episcopal School of Jacksonville in 2011, reflecting its expansion of grades served.\n\nToday, the school has a middle school and a high school, serving students grade 6 through 12; it enrolled 839 students in 2010. Despite its affiliation with the Episcopal church and its Christian mission, the school admits students of any religion, ethnic background, and nationality. \n\nThe school is governed by a board of trustees, which is approved by the Executive Counsel the Episcopal Diocese of Florida. The board is responsible for establishing school policy, managing assets, and selecting a head of school. The dean of St. John's Cathedral is vice-chair and the clergy member of the board.\n\nEpiscopal's main campus is called the Munnerlyn Campus and covers . A couple of miles away along the banks of the Arlington River is the Episcopal School's Knight Sports Complex. It contains the relatively new Walton Boathouse for Episcopal Crew, as well as lacrosse fields. \n\nThe overall student to teacher ratio is 10:1, with the average class size at around 17. Episcopal offers 21 AP courses and 19 Honors courses. In 2009, 91 students (11%) made a perfect score of 5 on an AP exam. Of Episcopal's 90 faculty members, 94% have 4-year degrees or higher, 31% have graduate degrees, and 1% have a Ph.D. The average tenure is almost 20 years. A major achievement for the school is its 100% college placement rate.\n\nEpiscopal School was the site of a school shooting on March 6, 2012. Shane Schumerth, who had been fired from his job as a Spanish teacher, shot and killed Dale Regan, head of school, before committing suicide. Schumerth, who had been struggling with depression, was fired that morning; he returned to the campus at 1:15 p.m. with an AK-47 assault rifle concealed in a guitar case. He entered Regan's office and shot her several times before shooting himself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123643", "title": "Alicia, Zamboanga Sibugay", "text": "Alicia, Zamboanga Sibugay\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nAlicia is politically subdivided into 27 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123644", "title": "Buug", "text": "Buug\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe name Buug was derived from the word \"bog\", a Subanen word for secondary forest which is the same as the Cebuano-Visayan term \"buog\". Accordingly, a group of Subanens stumbled upon this \"bog\" that was endowed with a stream and sufficient supply of water while they were moving from one place to another in search of a safe place to start a living away from marauders who were in search for slaves and things to loot. From then on people began to refer to the \"bog\" as Buug.\n\nBuug is located in the central Zamboanga Peninsula, on the island of Mindanao. It has a pentagon-like shape bounded on the south by Dumanquilas Bay, Bayog on the north, Kumalarang on the east, Diplahan on the west, and Malangas on south-west. The distance from Manila to Buug is approximately . It is five hours away from Zamboanga City by bus, one hour and 45 minutes bus drive from the Ipil, and away from Pagadian, or 45 minutes of travel by bus.\n\nIt has an average temperature of and has an average elevation of above sea level. It is away from the typhoon belt and enjoying a Type IV climate, i.e. rainfall is more or less evenly distributed throughout the year.\n\nBuug belongs to the first district of Zamboanga Sibugay. The local executive council is administered by a mayor. The legislative council is headed by a vice mayor with ten municipal councilors as members, eight of which are elected, plus the representative of \"Sangguniang Kabataan\" and the president of the Association of Barangay Captains (ABC). It is politically subdivided into 27 barangays.\n\nBuug grew into a thriving community through the initiative of the \"timuays\", the Subanen chieftains, who held leadership of the community. A school was opened which drew in the first trickle of Subanon, Cebuano, and other Visayan settlers. When the Samar Mining Company (SAMICO) opened the Sibuguey project in 1957 at Bobuan (now part of the municipality of Bayog), the next group of settlers flooded in. More people came when the Pagadian-Zamboanga National Highway reached Buug in 1958. The highway is part of the Pan-Philippine Highway (also known as the Maharlika Highway and AH26).\n\nBuug was originally a barangay of the municipality of Margosatubig and became a baranggay of Malangas when the former was divided in 1951. It became a municipality through Executive Order No. 380 issued by President Carlos P. Garcia on February 2, 1960. Instrumental in the formation of Municipality of Buug was the persistence of Mr. Quirino M. Gonzales, a fisherman who also was a councilor of Malangas and a native of Merida, Leyte. He is also a distant relative of then Senator Neptali Gonzales. Gonzales became the first appointed mayor and was called the \"Father of Buug\". After being proclaimed as a municipality, flocks of settlers established residence and trade in the place.\n\nCredit institutions and commercial businesses have multiplied. Appliance centers and merchandisers with main branches in big cities have invested in the area. Cottage industries have also sprouted. Buug’s economy is based on two sectors categorized by the local government:\n\nThere are two higher education institutions in Buug. Mindanao State University- Buug offers courses in education, agriculture, fisheries, liberal arts, information technology, hospitality industry, environmental science, etc. It also has a high school which serves as the laboratory school of the College of Education. St. John College of Buug Foundation, Inc. the only private college which offers courses criminology and business administration. A private high school managed by the Sisters of St. Paul of Chartres is also located here, the St. Paul School (formerly Holy Trinity Academy) which offers primary and high school education. The first high school which opened in Buug is a Gabaldon school called Western Mindanao Institute, a private school. Public high schools are also present such as the Buug National High School (which opened in 1996) located in Barangay Manlin and Del Monte National High School.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123645", "title": "Diplahan", "text": "Diplahan\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nDiplahan is politically subdivided into 22 barangays.\n"}
{"id": "2123646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123646", "title": "Imelda, Zamboanga Sibugay", "text": "Imelda, Zamboanga Sibugay\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality, formerly known as Santa Fe, is named in honor of then First Lady Imelda Marcos. It is the least populous municipality in the province and the third smallest in area.\n\nImelda is politically subdivided into 18 barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123648", "title": "Ipil, Zamboanga Sibugay", "text": "Ipil, Zamboanga Sibugay\n\n', officially the ', (; Chavacano: \"Municipalidad de Ipil\"), is a and capital of the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people. It is the most populous municipality of Zamboanga Sibugay.\n\nIpil is located three hours from the key cities in the region (Dipolog, Pagadian and Zamboanga City). The Ipil seaport is south of the town center.\n\nIpil Airport is located at Barangay Sanito, along the Pan Philippine Highway, and it is the only airport in Zamboanga Sibugay.\n\nIpil used to be known as Sanito, a place under barrio Bacalan under the Municipality of Kabasalan. It was a swampy area and a docking spot for pioneering Ilocanos who settled in the upper areas of Titay. Ipil was a jumping point for their lantsa sailing to Zamboanga City. The first mayor of Ipil was Gregorio Dar, an Ilocano who came from Titay. The Dar Family were the second batch of Ilocanos who settled upon the invitation of Mariano Families who are among the first batch of Ilocanos from Luzon. When Sanito became a Town in 1949, its name was changed to Ipil, as there were many Ipil trees found within the said locale.\n\nThe first Ilocanos used Ipil as the nearest jump point in connecting Titay with Zamboanga City. They would walk via Lumbia then to Longilog then Gabo reaching Mayabang their original settlement. It was this route that they do not have to cross the rivers as it is uphill. It was the Ilocanos who first set foot on these areas.\n\nOn the morning of April 3, 1995, Ipil was attacked by approximately 200 heavily armed Abu Sayyaf militants who fired upon residents, strafed civilian homes, plundered banks, took up to 30 hostages and then burned the centre of the town to the ground.\n\nThe militants allegedly arrived in the town by boat and bus, and a number of them had been dressed in military fatigues\n\nThe town's Chief of Police was reportedly killed in the attack and close to a billion pesos were looted from eight commercial banks. Army commandos pursued some rebel gunmen in nearby mountains while officials said that the rebels were looting farms and seizing civilians as \"human shields\" as they fled the town of about 40 rebels, who may have taken hostages, were cornered in a school compound west of Ipil on the 6th of April when an elite army unit attacked. In the fighting that followed, the television station GMA reported, 11 civilians were killed.\n\nMerjuar\nGeneroso Sucgang\nCol Escalona\n\nIpil is subdivided into 28 barangays.\n\nSeveral radio stations operate in the area: dxLR- 98.1 FM, Flazh-FM 99.7, Hitz 98.9, Magic 103 FM, 94.3 dxIR FM, dxDS FM, Igsoon FM and Radyo Lipay AM; and several newspapers are published here, including the \"Zamboanga Sibugay Tribune\" and \"The Sibugay Express\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2123649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123649", "title": "Kabasalan, Zamboanga Sibugay", "text": "Kabasalan, Zamboanga Sibugay\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe first inhabitants of the place are of Subanen origin. Kabasalan comes from the word \"basal\", meaning to play the agung, a musical instrument which is a favorite pastime of the Subanon. It was during the old times that the whole peninsula was resonating with the sound of that instrument. Every Subanen family owns a set of the instrument.\n\nKabasalan was greatly affected by Typhoon Tembin (2017) which most of the municipality where flooded.\nSchools were destroyed due to strong winds.\n\nKabasalan is politically subdivided into 29 barangays.\n\nKabasalan and its neighboring towns is being served by Flash-FM 91.3 MHz and Countryside Cable Television, Inc.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123650", "title": "Buck Fever", "text": "Buck Fever\n\nBuck Fever was the second full-length album released by Estradasphere. Notable assistance on the album comes from Trey Spruance, of Mr. Bungle and Secret Chiefs 3 fame.\n\n\n\n\n\"Buck Fever\" was created in memory of Smith Dobson.\n"}
{"id": "2123651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123651", "title": "Mabuhay, Zamboanga Sibugay", "text": "Mabuhay, Zamboanga Sibugay\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality is located in the northeastern part of Olutanga Island.\n\nMabuhay is politically subdivided into 18 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123652", "title": "Vienna Boys' Choir", "text": "Vienna Boys' Choir\n\nThe Vienna Boys' Choir () or Vienna Choir Boys is a choir of boy sopranos and altos based in Vienna, Austria. It is one of the best known boys' choirs in the world. The boys are selected mainly from Austria, but also from many other countries.\n\nThe choir is a private, non-profit organization. There are approximately 100 choristers between the ages of nine and fourteen. The boys are divided into four touring choirs, named after Austrian composers Bruckner, Haydn, Mozart and Schubert, which combined perform about 300 concerts each year before almost 500,000 people. Each group tours for about nine to eleven weeks. Some pieces include \"Good Morning\" and \"Merry Christmas from Vienna Boys\".\n\nThe choir is the modern-day descendant of the boys' choirs of the Viennese Court, dating back to the late Middle Ages. The Wiener Hofmusikkapelle was established by a letter from Emperor Maximilian I of the Holy Roman Empire on 30 June 1498, instructing court officials to employ a singing master, two basses and six boys. Jurij Slatkonja became the director of the ensemble. The role of the choir (numbering between 24 and 26) was to provide musical accompaniment for the church mass. Additionally, the Haydn brothers were members of the St. Stephen's Cathedral choir, directed at the time by Georg Reutter II, who used this choir in his duties for the imperial court, which at the time had no boy choristers of its own.\n\nOver the centuries, the choir has worked with many composers, including Heinrich Isaac, Hofhaimer, Biber, Fux, Caldara, Gluck, Salieri, Mozart, Franz Schubert and Bruckner.\n\nIn 1920, following the fall of the Austrian Empire, the \"Hofkapelle\" (court orchestra) was disbanded. However, the rector at the time, Josef Schnitt, sought a continuation of the tradition. In 1924, the Vienna Boys' Choir was officially founded, and it has evolved into a professional music group. The choir adopted the now-famous blue and white sailor suit, replacing the imperial military cadet uniform that included a dagger. The composer HK Gruber is one of the graduates of the reformed choir. \n\nSince 1948, the Palais Augarten has served as their rehearsal venue and boarding school, which goes from kindergarten level up to middle school level.\n\nIn 1961, Walt Disney filmed \"Almost Angels\", a fictional drama about (and starring) the Vienna Boys' Choir, set and filmed in the Palais Augarten. It was Disney who, for cinematographic reasons, persuaded the Austrian government to allow the boys to legally wear the Austrian national emblem on the breast of their uniform, a tradition that continues to this day.\n\nGerald Wirth became the choir's artistic director in 2001. However, since then, the choir has come under pressure to modernize and has faced criticism of their musical standards, leading to a split with the Vienna State Opera. The choir has for the first time had to advertise for recruits after a rival choir school was established by Ioan Holender, director of the opera company. He complained of both falling standards and poor communication with the choir. He said that the State Opera sometimes trained boys for particular stage roles, only to find out on the day of performance that they were unavailable as they had gone on tour with the choir. Some boys were attracted to the rival choir school by the prospect of a more relaxed atmosphere and of performance fees being paid directly to them.\n\nThe Vienna Boys' Choir has sought to update its image, recording pop music selections and adopting an alternative uniform to the sailor suits used since the 1920s, allowing the boys to dance as they sing. After Eugen Jesser died in May 2008, Walter Nettig became the choir's president. Gerald Wirth has been the artistic director since 2001, and he also became the choir's president in 2013.\n\nIn 2010, following sexual abuse allegations from two former choristers stemming from the late 1960s and early 1980s, the Vienna Boys' Choir opened a confidential phone and e-mail hotline to allow others to come forward. Eight possible victims came forward saying they were abused, either by staff or other choir members.\n\n\n\n\nThe Vienna Boys' Choir performed the song \"The Little Drummer Boy\" in the Rankin/Bass TV special of the same name.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123655", "title": "Malangas, Zamboanga Sibugay", "text": "Malangas, Zamboanga Sibugay\n\n', officially the ', (Cebuano: \"Lungsod sa Malangas\"; Filipino (Tagalog): \"Bayan ng Malangas\"; Zamboangueño/Chavacano: \"Municipio de Malangas\"), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality is generally rolling near the shorelines and mountainous in the hinterland with some patches of flat land located within the mangroves near the shorelines. It borders Buug to the north-east; Diplahan to the north-west; Imelda to the west; Margosatubig, Zamboanga del Sur, to the east; and Alicia to the south.\n\nMalangas is the site of coal mining in Western Mindanao area, operated by the Philippine National Oil Company - Exploration Corporation. The coalmine is one of the largest in the country. Its town center nests in a harbor in Dumanquilas Bay, boasts of its twin ports, one for coal, the other for passengers.\n\nMalangas, unfortunately is infested with drug pushers and drug addicts for many years now. It has been dubbed as \"Little Ozamis\" due to its abundancy of Metamphetamine Hydrochloride or commonly called Shabu.\n\nMalangas is one of the oldest municipality of its former province, Zamboanga del Sur. In 1951, the barrios of Malangas, La Dicha, Diplo, Gusem, Buug, Matinaw, Gaulan, Tinungtungan, Manangon, Lindang, Luop, Silupa, Minsulao, Paruk, Lubing, Balabao, Mali, Baluran, Sampuli and Bacao, all from Margosatubig were separated to form the town of Malangas.\n\nThe name Malangas got its name from a sitio later named Malangas Gamay, probably of Spanish origin. Though the exact origin of “Malangas” is unclear, the word itself might have Spanish origins, probably taken from the word “Malanga” which means “Taro” (Colocasia Esculenta to Botanists) in English (“Taro” is called “Gabi” in Filipino), as the natives of Malangas might have been planting this crops during the time when the Spaniards paid them a visit.\n\nA booming coal town during the 1900s, and the mother town of various towns namely Buug, Diplahan, Imelda, part of Siay in Zamboanga Sibugay and the towns of Bayog and Kumalarang in Zamboanga del Sur.\n\nThe town is Located on the south-eastern tip of Zamboanga Sibugay province. It is bounded on the east by Dumanquilas Bay and south by the Celebes Sea. The total distance from Manila to Malangas, Philippines is . This is equivalent to 792 kilometers or . It is two and a half hours away from Pagadian city, 45 minutes drive from the Provincial capital, and 133 kilometers away from the city of Zamboanga.\n\nMalangas also includes the island of Muyong, having endowed with white sand beaches, and other of uninhabited islands near the shorelines. Mainland area are steeply sloping terrain of hills and mountains. Due to its topography and elevation the town do not experience flooding.\n\nThe Municipality of Malangas enjoys a location that is free from the typhoon belt area. March to May is hot and dry, with temperature at , while in June to October is rainy, and November to February is cool, with temperatures ranging from . Average humidity year round is 77%.\n\nMalangas belongs to the 1st District of Zamboanga Sibugay. It is politically subdivided into 25 barangays.\n\nThe indigenous people of the area now known as Malangas were the Malangeneous.\n\nThe large majority of the population of Malangas is Roman Catholic (87%). Other religions represented are Protestant (3%), and Islam (10%).\n\nThe Main language of Malangas is Bisaya. Locals can also speak well in Tagalog and English. \nEnglish is widely used in education and understood. Other languages of the Philippines are also spoken, mostly between family members, relatives, or neighbors belonging to the same ethnic group. Among these languages, the most spoken include Chavacano languages, Tausug, Maguindanao, and the Subanen.\n\n\nCoal mining has been in operation in Malangas since the early 1930s, which strengthens the local economy as well as that of the entire province Zamboanga Sibugay. In 1938, the Malangas Coal Reservation was established. Although the scale of the present operations is relatively modest, the production is of considerable national significance. There are relatively large deposits of coal and this estimates to contain nearly 10 million tons of coal (according to Frederick L. Wernstedt,Joseph Earle Spencer) some of which is of coking quality - a small quantity to be sure, but one that gains added significance in light of the general overall shortage of mineral fuels in the Philippines. The present production of Malangas coal is being shipped to the Iligan Industrial area.\n\nThe rest of Malangas is still heavily dependent on agriculture and aquaculture, while in the coastal areas there is also commercial fishing.\n\nManufacturing:\n\nThere are Philippine coals which are of such quality that they can be used by current users without the need for any coal preparation or blending with imported coals. Among these are the coal deposits being mined in Malangas. The PNOC (Philippine National Oil Company) and the TMC its Taiwanese partner operates coal within the Malangas Coal Reservation. It also operates a large-scale coal mine known as the Integrated Little Baguio (ILB) colliery, which is currently the largest semi-mechanized underground coal mine in the country.\n\nIn the year 1995, a worst tragedy happened when a huge methane gas explosion ripped through a coal mine tunnel in Malangas town, killing more than 100 people. The blast set off a fireball, which swept through nine kilometers of mines, and setting off other explosives which had been stockpiled inside the tunnel. Ten years later, six miners were killed when a coal tunnel collapsed in Diplahan town.\n\nNews about the coal mine in Malangas has been rumored that PNOC-EC may sell mine to San Miguel Corp.\nAccording to the news, the Philippine National Oil Company - Exploration Corp. (PNOC-EC) is in talks with diversified conglomerate San Miguel Corp. to sell a coal mine in Mindanao and this is probably in Zamboanga Peninsula where Malangas is located. For 2009, total coal production in Malangas amounted to 91,440 metric tons, a decrease from the 2008 output of 110, 549 metric tons due to major repair and rehabilitation “conducted immediately upon takeover of the mines.” Today, Mining operators are still operating in the coal reservation of the town.\n\nMalangas is endowed with several islets that are ideal for resort development. One of these is Isla Muyong, comparable to Boracay Island in Katiklan and Coron palawan . One characteristic that they have in common is their white sand beaches. Others are also sprawled in some of the town's coastline.\n\nThe most notable beach in Malangas is the Municipal Government owned beach resort, located in Bunker, the site of the town's coal port. Many people who live in the nearby towns like it because of the proximity of the place.\n\nThe local council is administered by the mayor, with the assistance of the vice mayor. There is only one representative Sangguniang Kabataan (Youth Council) and Association of Barangay Captains (ABC).\n\nMalangas has been administered by elected and appointed officials since July 23, 1951, with a strong Mayor-council government. The current mayor is governed by Alfredo A. Atilano, the first male elected mayor in the 21st century in the history of Malangas. The Municipal mayor is restricted to three consecutive terms, totaling nine years, although a mayor can be elected again after an interruption of one term. Marcelo Baquial Jr. is the municipal's incumbent vice mayor. The vice mayor heads the legislative arm composed of the elected Municipal councilors.\n\nOne of the major problems in Malangas is the water system. Water resources are also less abundant. Almost 90 percent of the population get its water supply from a nearby barangay. But this is not abundant for the population. This explains the water scarcity in the area. While some barangays receive enough water, others experience constant water deficiency most especially in the poblacion area. Lack of access to water is a larger problem in the population anywhere else in the town center. The water supply only runs hourly within the different districts/purok. There are recent government efforts to improve the management of water resources in Malangas but all had failed. As of now, the government is trying to solve the problem to help get the people a good and fine water system.\n\nMalangas is home to one of the external studies unit of Western Mindanao State University, the state university in western Mindanao region which is ranked sixth among 68 universities all over the country, according to a survey on the Top Academic Institutions in the Philippines conducted by the Commission on Higher Education. Head office of the university is in Zamboanga City The campus is located at the mountain hill of the town viewing the Dumaguillas Bay and neighboring islets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123656", "title": "List of Newfoundland and Labrador senators", "text": "List of Newfoundland and Labrador senators\n\nThis is a list of past and present Canadian senators from the province of Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nNotes:\n\nNotes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123657", "title": "Naga, Zamboanga Sibugay", "text": "Naga, Zamboanga Sibugay\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nNaga is politically subdivided into 23 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123658", "title": "List of United States Republican Party presidential tickets", "text": "List of United States Republican Party presidential tickets\n\nThis is a list of the candidates for the offices of President of the United States and Vice President of the United States of the Republican Party of the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123659", "title": "Olutanga, Zamboanga Sibugay", "text": "Olutanga, Zamboanga Sibugay\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality is in the southwestern part of the eponymous Olutanga Island.\n\nOlutanga is subdivided into 19 barangays.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123662", "title": "Payao, Zamboanga Sibugay", "text": "Payao, Zamboanga Sibugay\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nPayao is politically subdivided into 29 barangays.\n"}
{"id": "2123664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123664", "title": "Roseller Lim, Zamboanga Sibugay", "text": "Roseller Lim, Zamboanga Sibugay\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town is named in honor of the first Senator from Zamboanga, Senator Roseller T. Lim.\n\nRoseller Lim is politically subdivided into 26 barangays.\n\n\nRoseller Lim has many elementary and high schools, as well as colleges.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123666", "title": "Siay, Zamboanga Sibugay", "text": "Siay, Zamboanga Sibugay\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality is located in the 2nd District and Eastern part of the Province of Zamboanga Sibugay. It is thirty eight (38) kilometers from Ipil, Two Hundred twenty (220) kilometers to Dipolog City and (180) Kilometers East to Zamboanga City. It is geographically situated within a map coordination of 741 east & 122* 53*west.\n\nSiay is bounded from the north by the municipality of Diplahan, south by the Sibuguey Bay, West by the Municipality of Kabasalan and East by the Municipality of Imelda.\n\nSiay is politically subdivided into 29 barangays.\n\n____________________________________________\n\nLand Area: 31,366 hectares (DENR)\n\nTotal No of Barangays: 29\n\nLocation: Siay is 38 kilometers away from Ipil, the capital town of Zamboanga Sibugay Province, and 120 kilometers away from Pagadian City\n\n____________________________________________\n\nLivelihood:\n\n1) Agricultural (57.83% of the entire area of the municipality is utilized for agricultural purposes.)\n\n2) Commercial and Service Centers\n\n3) Industrial\n\nSubstantive Products – Calamansi (Kalamansi)\n\nSignificant Tribe - Subanen\n\nDialect Spoken - Cebuano, Chavacano (Influenced by Spanish language) & Ilonggo\n\nMajor Industries- Calamansi, Raw Rubber, Dried Fish, Sea Products and Rice Production\n\nCultural Tribe - Subanen & Islam\n\nMajor Religion - Roman Catholic\n\nSiay, the Calamansi Producer of Zamboanga Sibugay\n\nMain Sources of Income: Agriculture, Fishery, Commerce and Trade are the main sources of income of the people.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123669", "title": "Talusan, Zamboanga Sibugay", "text": "Talusan, Zamboanga Sibugay\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is the second least populous municipality in the province and the smallest in area.\n\nThe municipality is located in the central part of Olutanga Island.\n\nTalusan is politically subdivided into 14 barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123670", "title": "Titay, Zamboanga Sibugay", "text": "Titay, Zamboanga Sibugay\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt was declared as a separate municipality on May 24, 1959, by virtue of Executive Order No. 395.\n\nIn 1933 Custodio P. Mariano Sr.the first Ilocano settler, discovered a small place in the center of the poblacion and registered the name of the place in honor of his favorite cousin back in Luzon who is Cristita Mariano nicknamed \"Titay\" knowing that a woman's name would bring good luck to the place. The Mariano families were among the first batch of Ilocanos who came from Luzon. Followed by the Dar families who are cousins of the Marianos.\n\nTitay is politically subdivided into 30 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123671", "title": "Tungawan", "text": "Tungawan\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt has an area of of land, the largest in the province, as well as of coastal waters.\n\nIt was declared as a Municipality on May 24, 1959, and started functioning as an LGU on January 29, 1961, by virtue of Executive Order No. 395. Its name was coined from the minute leech generally known as “\"tungaw\"” of the Hirudo family.\n\nTungawan's economy is primarily based on agriculture, producing rubber, coconut, corn, rice, and seaweeds. It is home to the 880 hectares Bangaan Marine Sanctuary at Barangays Linguisan and Tigbucay.\n\nTungawan is politically subdivided into 25 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123677", "title": "Peer to Peer Remote Copy", "text": "Peer to Peer Remote Copy\n\nPeer to Peer Remote Copy or PPRC is a protocol to replicate a storage volume to another control unit in a remote site. Synchronous PPRC causes each write to the primary volume to be performed to the secondary as well, and the I/O is only considered complete when update to both primary and secondary have completed. Asynchronous PPRC will flag tracks on the primary to be duplicated to the secondary when time permits.\n\nPPRC is also the name IBM calls their implementation of the protocol for their storage hardware. Other vendors have their own implementation. For example, the HDS implementation is called TrueCopy. EMC also provides a similar capability on their VPLEX platforms called \"MirrorView\".\n\nPPRC can be used to provide very fast data recovery due to failure of the primary site.\n\nIn IBM zSeries computers with two direct access storage device (DASD) control units connected through dedicated connections, PPRC is the protocol used to mirror a DASD volume in one control unit (the primary) to a DASD volume in the other control unit (the secondary).\n\nIn the IBM SAN Volume Controller PPRC is used to mirror a virtualized storage volume to remote (or the same) cluster.\n\nPPRC is also referred to as Metro Mirror when comparing to Global Mirror.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123679", "title": "Traveller's Tales", "text": "Traveller's Tales\n\nTraveller's Tales is a British video game developer and a subsidiary of TT Games. Traveller's Tales was founded in 1989 by Jon Burton and Andy Ingram. Initially a small company focused on its own content, it grew in profile through developing games with larger companies such as Sega and Disney Interactive Studios. In 2004, development on \"\" started with Giant Interactive Entertainment, the exclusive rights holder to Lego video games. Traveller's Tales bought the company in 2005, and the two merged to create TT Games, with Traveller's Tales becoming the new company's development arm.\n\nTraveller's Tales started developing games with Psygnosis, which were most notable for creating 3D effects. Their first game was \"Leander\", also known as \"The Legend of Galahad\". With Psygnosis they developed a video game adaption of \"Bram Stoker's Dracula\", as well as other original productions like \"Puggsy\". Thanks to an agreement between Psygnosis, Sony Imagesoft and Disney Interactive Studios, Traveller's Tales could produce several games based on Disney's properties, such as the Mickey Mouse game \"\" and other games based on Pixar movies like \"Toy Story\", \"A Bug's Life\", \"\" and \"Finding Nemo\" (the latter two thanks to agreements with Activision and THQ).\n\nHowever, Traveller's Tales was best known in the 1990s and early 2000s for their second-party collaboration with Sega to develop games based on the \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" franchise, resulting in \"Sonic 3D Blast\" and \"Sonic R\", which were produced in close effort with Sega's Sonic Team. Both games were regarded as technical achievements in the Mega Drive (\"Sonic 3D Blast\") and the Sega Saturn (\"Sonic R\"), adding to the high-tech development status they already had with games like \"Puggsy\", \"Mickey Mania\" and \"Toy Story\". They were also responsible for \"Crash Twinsanity\", under the Vivendi label. The game has gained a cult following and is widely considered the best \"Crash Bandicoot\" game post-Naughty Dog era.\n\nThey developed \"\" as well as its follow-ups. Outside of the Lego games, their work includes the franchise \"Crash Bandicoot\", \"The Chronicles of Narnia\", \"Super Monkey Ball Adventure\", and \"World Rally Championship\" and \"F1 Grand Prix\" for the PlayStation Portable.\n\nThe company was purchased by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment at the end of 8 November 2007, but continued to operate independently with the development of \"\", which was released in September 2008. Thereafter they continued their work on licensed titles such as \"\", \"\", \"Lego The Lord of the Rings\", \"\", and \"Lego Marvel Super Heroes\". It was also announced during the Star Wars Celebration VI that a \"Lego Star Wars IV\" was in production, though no in-game image or released date were shown.\n\nThe company has also produced games based on existing and new Lego properties such as a trilogy of Lego games based on the Chima universe and \"Lego City Undercover\", the first Lego game to be published by Nintendo for Wii U. \"The Lego Movie Videogame\" was released on 7 February 2014, together with \"The Lego Movie\".\n\nTraveller's Tales has won two BAFTAs, one for Gameplay with \"\", and one for Children's Videogame of the Year for \"\".\n"}
{"id": "2123683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123683", "title": "Dapitan", "text": "Dapitan\n\n', officially the ' (Cebuano: \"Dakbayan sa Dapitan\"; Subanon: \"Gembagel G'benwa Dapitan/Bagbenwa Dapitan\") or simply referred to as Dapitan City, is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is historically significant as the place where José Rizal was exiled by the Spaniards for his revolutionary activities. He is considered a national hero, and this is known as the \"Shrine City in the Philippines.\" It is also often considered the capital of Mindanao Island. The city is also home to Gloria's Fantasyland, the first amusement park in Mindanao.\n\nOn June 22, 1963, President Diosdado Macapagal signed R.A. 3811 which converted Dapitan into a chartered city. It is officially renowned as the “Shrine City of the Philippines.”\n\nThe earliest settlers of Dapitan were the Subanens, a nomadic tribe of Indonesian stock known to have settled and lived along the banks of the river or “suba” out of which their present-day tribal identity originated.\n\nDapitan City is politically subdivided into 50 barangays, of which 8 barangays are urban, 27 are interior, 13 are coastal, and 2 are island barangays. In 1955, the sitios of Sipalok, Barcelona, and Potungan were converted into barrios.\n\nTaguilon is home to the Dakak Park and Beach Resort. It is a producer of coconut and agar (based on sea weed) as well as a fishing port. The pier in Taguilon is a secondary/alternate port to the main passenger/cargo port in Dapitan City. Additionally, during severe storms at sea, ferries and other ships find shelter in the Taguilon cove. One can find the mount Lalab overlooking the islets of Silinog and part of Balyangaw.\n\nTalisay is a seaside barangay where José Rizal spent four years in exile. A park and shrine honoring the Philippine national hero can be found in the José Rizal Memorial Protected Landscape, a protected area declared in 2000, located in the old Rizal farm site in the barangay.\n\n\n\n\n\nDapitan City has launched a diversified fiesta celebration of its Patron St. James or Señor Santiago for the locals through a three-in-one affair, combining religious, cultural and sports events in its Kinabayo Festival 2009.\n\nThe Kinabayo Festival kicks off July 16 and culminates on July 31 with various events taking place within the Shrine City of the Philippines.\n\nDapitan is served by the Port of Pulauan in barangay San Vicente (albeit ferry schedules often list the destination as Port of Dipolog, a neighboring city). There are daily ferries from/to Dumaguete and from/to Cebu City.\n\nDapitan is catered by Dipolog City Airport through Phil. Air, Cebu Pacific and 2Go Airline. From Dipolog take a shuttle bus to Dapitan which is 20–30 minutes ride, that's 12 kilometers from the airport to the City proper of Dapitan.\n\n\nDapitan is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "2123684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123684", "title": "La Victoria District, Lima", "text": "La Victoria District, Lima\n\nLa Victoria is a district of the Lima in Peru and is one of the most populous districts comprising the city of Lima.\n\nLa Victoria borders downtown Lima on the northwest, the district of Lince on the west, San Isidro on the southwest, San Borja on the south, San Luis on the east, and El Agustino on the northeast.\n\nLa Victoria has several sections: \nLa Victoria is home to one of the most popular football teams in Peru: Alianza Lima. It has the Estadio Alejandro Villanueva, allowing you to play at home, is located near the housing project Hooch in the southern part of La Victoria. La Victoria is very historical and located in downtown Lima.\n\nToday's La Victoria offers its residents and visitors to the satisfaction of visiting its stately parks and enjoy the wonders of their culture, thereby imparting values among younger generations. It must be emphasized that La Victoria is a very busy public district.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123687", "title": "Quadropus", "text": "Quadropus\n\n'Quadropus' is the third full-length album by Estradasphere. It was released on October 28, 2003.\n\nFor \"Quadropus\", Estradasphere made a conscious decision to isolate the genres for each track, instead of including many genres in a single song. For example, \"Mekapses Yitonisa\" doesn't stray far from its Greek gypsy roots while \"Crystal Blue\" is purely Beach Boys-esque rock music. For this reason, \"Quadropus\" is considered Estradasphere's most accessible album.\n\nThe CD is enhanced and contains a video of the song \"Body Slam\" being performed live and can be accessed by most computers. This video would later be used for the live DVD Passion for Life (at the end of the video it hints that an Estradasphere DVD would be released in February 2004).\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Quadropus\" was created in loving memory of Mary Aquinas McClafferty Whooley and John Patrick Whooley Sr.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123689", "title": "Leon B. Postigo", "text": "Leon B. Postigo\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality, originally named Bacungan, was formed by virtue of Batas Pambansa No. 204 on March 25, 1982. It was renamed to its current name by virtue of Republic Act No. 6830 on December 30, 1989, in honor of Leon Bayot Postigo, a Philippine Constabulary corporal whose 10-hectare lot in the town was donated by his heirs to the local government.\n\nLeon B. Postigo is politically subdivided into 18 barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123691", "title": "Baliguian", "text": "Baliguian\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBaliguian is politically subdivided into 17 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123692", "title": "Borel equivalence relation", "text": "Borel equivalence relation\n\nIn mathematics, a Borel equivalence relation on a Polish space \"X\" is an equivalence relation on \"X\" that is a Borel subset of \"X\" × \"X\" (in the product topology).\n\nGiven Borel equivalence relations \"E\" and \"F\" on Polish spaces \"X\" and \"Y\" respectively, one says that \"E\" is \"Borel reducible\" to \"F\", in symbols \"E\" ≤ \"F\", if and only if there is a Borel function\n\nsuch that for all \"x\",\"x\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> ∈ \"X\", one has\n\nConceptually, if \"E\" is Borel reducible to \"F\", then \"E\" is \"not more complicated\" than \"F\", and the quotient space \"X\"/\"E\" has a lesser or equal \"Borel cardinality\" than \"Y\"/\"F\", where \"Borel cardinality\" is like cardinality except for a definability restriction on the witnessing mapping.\n\nA measure space \"X\" is called a standard Borel space if it is Borel-isomorphic to a Borel subset of a Polish space. Kuratowski's theorem then states that two standard Borel spaces \"X\" and \"Y\" are Borel-isomorphic iff |\"X\"| = |\"Y\"|.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123693", "title": "Godod", "text": "Godod\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nGodod is politically subdivided into 17 barangays.\n"}
{"id": "2123694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123694", "title": "Gutalac", "text": "Gutalac\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nGutalac is politically subdivided into 33 barangays.\n"}
{"id": "2123696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123696", "title": "Jose Dalman", "text": "Jose Dalman\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is formerly known as Ponot\n\nJose Dalman is politically subdivided into 18 barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123698", "title": "Kalawit", "text": "Kalawit\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt was created by virtue of Republic Act No. 6851 on February 10, 1990.\n\nKalawit is politically subdivided into 14 barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123700", "title": "Katipunan, Zamboanga del Norte", "text": "Katipunan, Zamboanga del Norte\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is formerly known as Lubungan.)\n\nIn 1955, six barrios were created:\n\nKatipunan is politically subdivided into 30 barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123701", "title": "La Libertad, Zamboanga del Norte", "text": "La Libertad, Zamboanga del Norte\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLa Libertad is politically subdivided into 13 barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123702", "title": "Labason", "text": "Labason\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLabason's commercial buildings have improved over the past years.\n\nMurcielagos Island is within the municipal jurisdiction of Labason.\n\nIn 1959, the sitios of Bacong, Gabong, Pitawe and Banga-an were constituted into the barrio of Pitawe.\n\nLabason is politically subdivided into 20 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123704", "title": "Liloy, Zamboanga del Norte", "text": "Liloy, Zamboanga del Norte\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLiloy is mainly an agricultural community with an economy that relies mostly on crop production such as corn, rice, coconuts, peanuts, and root crops. It is known as the \"Peanut Capital of Zamboanga del Norte\".\n\nLiloy's total area is , 78% of which is an agricultural land planted with coconuts, corn, rice, root crops and some rubber trees. According to the records of the Municipal Assessor’s office, 22% of the municipality's territory comprise the residential area which is sixty-five (65); commercial, nine (9); industrial, in Barangay Timan and Santa Cruz, ten (10); institutional land, fifty (50); public school sites(?); and wharf, eight hundred sixty (860) hectares. There are also open areas for road right of way of public highways and roads traversing in the different barangays of the municipality.\n\nIt lies on the north-western side of the Zamboanga peninsula, bounded in the north by the Sulu Sea; south, the municipality of Tampilisan; east, the municipality of Salug; and west, the municipality of Labason.\n\nThere are two distinct seasons, the dry and the rainy. Usually, the rainy season starts from the month of June and ends in December while the dry season occurs in the months of January to May. Typhoon comes rarely in this area because it is not within the typhoon belt.\n\nLiloy is politically subdivided into 37 barangays. The sitios of Silucap, Bacong, Libertad, Balacan, Tampilisan, Cabangkalan, Tambalang, and Kayoc were elevated into barrios in 1955.\n\nLiloy was once a barrio or barangay of the Municipality of Sindangan, Zamboanga del Norte. By virtue of Executive Order No. 469 issued by President Elpidio Quirino on August 22, 1951, it became an independent municipal corporation, although the municipal officials were not yet organized. The municipality was inaugurated on December 16 of the same year. The first municipal mayor of Liloy was Arsenia Almonte Teves.\n\nLiloy subsequently lost large portions of its territory when the separate municipalities of Salug and Tampilisan were created in 1959 and 1978 respectively.\n\nIn 2017, House Bill No. 5040 was introduced in the House of Representatives seeking to carve out a new province from Zamboanga del Norte. The proposed Zamboanga Hermosa province was to consist of 12 municipalities and 2 legislative districts that make up the 3rd legislative district of Zamboanga del Norte. However, the bill ultimately did not pass the 16th congress.\n\nIndigenous people/tribal community: Subanon\n\nLiloy's Alay Festival was once a private-funded festival by the Tan family in Barangay Fatima to honor Nuestra Señora Birhen de Regla. At present, it is one of the most celebrated festivals in the town. The Local Government Officials contribute and show support financially and morally for the said activity.\n\nThe \"Araw ng Liloy\" starts on the 22nd day of August every year. Also known as \"Linggo ng Liloy\", the celebration is held for a week. It is highlighted by a Beauty Pageant to select the \"Mutya ng Liloy\"\n\nTourism is centered on its growing developments along the beaches in the Barangays of Patawag, Banigan, Santa Cruz, Timan, and Punta, catering to white sand beaches and corals. Barangay Baybay, the seat of trade and commerce in the town, has also rapidly boomed in trade, industry, education and commerce.\n\nThe under-construction two-floor market with an escalator will be the first in the province.\n\nLiloy is governed by a mayor, a vice mayor and eight councilors. Each official is elected publicly to a three-year term. The chief of the Association of Barangay Captains and the President of the Sangguniang Kabataan Federation are also among the members of the municipal council.\n\nPatin \"patintin\" is the current mayor of the municipality. His vice mayor, Alfred U. Chan will be serving his last term as the town's vice mayor.\n\nThe Municipal Hall is a two-story Batangas-type building built in the late 1950s; repaired in 1987. A one-story annex municipal building was constructed in 1965 and later, repaired in 1990.\n\nLiloy can be reached from the capital city of Dipolog by overland transportation via the National Highway. The highway is parallel to the coast with a distance of . From Liloy to Zamboanga City at the very tip of the peninsula is .\n\nBus terminals for land transportation are situated at down and uptown area (Barangay Fatima).\n\nLiloy Airport is an airport serving the general area of Liloy. It is classified as a feeder airport by the Air Transportation Office, and under the jurisdiction of the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines.\n\nIt is one of the three domestic airports in the province, located in Barangay Comunal. It was first developed in 1950 under the administration of Mayor Aquilino Bomediano Sr. The first O.I.C of Liloy Airport was Tony Macias, a Filipino-American citizen.\n\nBetween the years 1960 to 1970, three twelve-seater PAL planes served their flights to domestic destinations like Dipolog, Cebu and Davao. Its usable runway length is with a total of .\n\nCurrent O.I.C of Liloy Airport is Edwardo Toledo. Private and government charter planes and choppers usually land at the airport.\n\nThis port is currently managed under the Philippine Ports of Authority (PPA).\n\nLiloy-I District\n\nLiloy-II District\nAt present, there are 2 public institutions for high school students.\n\nLiloy National High School- is a public institution of learning for high school students in the Liloy town and the neighboring towns like Salug, Tampilisan and some neighboring barangays in Labason. Its primary goal is to provide quality instruction to pursue the goals of Secondary Education as a link to tertiary level.\n\nCompra National High School- is a former extension campus of the Liloy NHS located at barangay Compra, a southern part of the municipality along the National Highway. It caters students from its neighboring feeder elementary schools located in the municipalities of Liloy, Tampilisan and Kalawit.\nLisun Institute- is a private institute located in the heart of the Barangay Fatima, near the Fatima Public Market. It also offers some College courses which was founded in the 1960s.\n\nLiloy Immanuel School- is a private school in Liloy founded by CAMACOP.\n\nAve Maria College- is the first and so far the only Catholic tertiary school in the town.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123706", "title": "Mutia, Zamboanga del Norte", "text": "Mutia, Zamboanga del Norte\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMutia is politically subdivided into 16 barangays.\n"}
{"id": "2123709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123709", "title": "Piñan, Zamboanga del Norte", "text": "Piñan, Zamboanga del Norte\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is also known as New Piñan.\n\nPiñan is politically subdivided into 22 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123711", "title": "WPXW-TV", "text": "WPXW-TV\n\nWPXW-TV, virtual channel 66 (UHF digital channel 35), is an Ion Television owned-and-operated station serving the American capital city of Washington, District of Columbia that is licensed to nearby Manassas, Virginia. The station is owned by West Palm Beach, Florida-based Ion Media Networks (the former Paxson Communications). WPXW-TV's studios are located in Fairfax Station, Virginia, and its transmitter is located on River Road in Bethesda, Maryland. It is one of two Ion outlets that serve the Baltimore market (alongside the fourth digital subchannel of Towson-licensed Class A station WMJF-CD, channel 39).\n\nOn cable, WPXW-TV is available on Comcast Xfinity channel 33 in Washington, D.C., Cox Communications channel 15 in Fairfax County, Virginia, and channel 16 or 17 on most other systems in the market.\n\nWWPX-TV (channel 60) in Martinsburg, West Virginia, operates as a full-time satellite of WPXW-TV.\n\nChannel 66 signed on as WTKK, an independent religious station owned by National Capital Christian Broadcasting, in 1978. The call letters stood for Witnessing The King of Kings. In 1982, they added some classic sitcoms and very old movies to the lineup, but by 1986, they reverted to mostly religious. From 1984 until 1986, WTKK had a sister station in Richmond, WTLL. In 1994, WTKK was purchased by ValueVision, a home shopping network, and on June 6, 1994, the call letters were changed to WVVI. Paxson Communications purchased the station in 1997, and on January 13, 1998, the call letters were changed to the current WPXW. The station was an all-infomercial channel (\"inTV\") from the time that Paxson bought the station until the Pax network launched on August 31, 1998. The station had the rights to the 2005 season of Baltimore Orioles games in the Washington area that were produced by MASN. It was formerly known as Pax 66, before the Pax network changed its name to i: Independent Television and later Ion Television.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\n\nWPXW-TV shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 66, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal moved from its pre-transition UHF channel 43 to channel 34. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 66, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123714", "title": "Mount Wilson (Antarctica)", "text": "Mount Wilson (Antarctica)\n\nMount Wilson is a mountain rising in the west part of the Bermel Peninsula on the Bowman Coast of Antarctica. This mountain appears indistinctly in a photograph taken by Sir Hubert Wilkins on his flight of December 20, 1928. The feature was rephotographed in 1935 by Lincoln Ellsworth and in 1947 by RARE under Ronne. It was surveyed by the Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey in 1948. Named by Ronne after Major General R. C. Wilson, chief of staff to Lt. General Curtis LeMay, head of the Office of Research and Development of the then Army Air Force, which furnished equipment for RARE.\n"}
{"id": "2123717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123717", "title": "Kano State", "text": "Kano State\n\nKano State is a state located in northern Nigeria. Kano was created on May 27, 1967 from part of the Northern Region, and borders Katsina State to the northwest, Jigawa State to the northeast, Bauchi State to the southeast and Kaduna State to the southwest. The state's capital is the city of Kano.\n\nAn important early center of commerce in the region was Kurmi Market, founded by the Emir of Kano Muhammadu Rumfa in 1463 CE. Subsequent leaders made contributions to the emergence of Kano as a leading commercial centre in Sudanic Africa. During the time of the Kano Emirate, Emir Ibrahim Dabo made a number of administrative reforms, seeking to increase commerce in the region. Leaders during this time encouraged traders to move from Katsina, capitalising on raids from the Hausa Sultanate of Maradi. The Jihad leaders of the Caliphate encouraged Kola nut trade and Kano was the greatest beneficiary with an annual turnover of about $30 million. Craft industries also evolved in the pre-colonial period contributing to the prosperity of the province.\n\nAfter a British invasion of the region, culminating in the Battle of Kano in February 1903, the region became a part of the Northern Nigeria Protectorate. Kano lated became a part of the Northern Region of Nigeria. Kano state was created on May 27, 1967. In 1991, part of Kano State was separated to form Jigawa State.\n\nMany large markets exist within Kano today, such as the Kurmi Market, the Kwari Market, and the Dawanau Market. Many of these markets specialize in a certain product, such as textiles or grains.\n\nSubsistence and commercial agriculture is mostly practised in the outlying districts of the state. Some of the food crops cultivated are millet, cowpeas, sorghum, maize and rice for local consumption while groundnuts and cotton are produced for export and industrial purposes. During the colonial period and several years after the country's independence, the groundnuts produced in the state constituted one of the major sources revenue of the country. Kano State is a major producer of hides and skins, sesame, soybean, cotton, garlic, gum arabic and chili pepper.\n\nKano State is the second-largest industrial centre after Lagos State in Nigeria and the largest in Northern Nigeria with textile, tanning, footwear, cosmetics, plastics, enamelware, pharmaceuticals, ceramics, furniture and other industries. Others include agricultural implements, soft drinks, food and beverages, dairy products, vegetable oil, animal feeds etc. Kano is also the center of a growing Islamic banking industry in Nigeria.\n\nThe tourist attractions in the state include:\n\n\nKano State is home to four universities: one federal university, two states universities, and one private university.\n\n\nThe following is a list of the approved Polytechnics and Colleges in the state of Kano:\n\n\nThe following is a list of research centres and institutes in the state of Kano:\n\n\nKano State consists of forty-four (44) Local Government Areas (LGAs). They are:\n\nAccording to the 2006 PON census figures from Nigeria Kano State had a population totalling 9,401,288. Officially, Kano State is the most populous state in the country. The state is mostly populated by the Hausa people.\n\nThe official language of Kano State is Hausa, but Fula is commonly spoken.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123720", "title": "Polanco, Zamboanga del Norte", "text": "Polanco, Zamboanga del Norte\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMost of land of Polanco was owned by the influential family of Realiza, led by Don Gaudencio N. Realiza during the times of American regime in the Philippines. The present land they own are large parts of Labrador (Prinda), Bethlehem, Dansullan, Guinles, Macleodes, New Sicayab, New Lebangon, Sianib, South Polanco, and Obay.\n\nPolanco is politically subdivided into 30 barangays. Lingasad, Silawe, Isis, and Loboc (present-day San Miguel) became barrios in 1954. In 1955, the sitios of Prenda, Balangbang, Marantaw, Tamsi, Serabang Gamay and Serabang Daku became barrio Prenda, while sitios of Bandera, Pian, Biga-an, Upper Genatulan, Lower Sinaman and Miasi became barrio Bandera.\n\nIn 1957, the sitios of Dilawa, Desin, Lambog, Gumatob, Boboringan, Tubongon, Debolok, Tiaman, Guintom, Lower Disoy, and New Tipan were converted into the barrio of Milad.\nSianib is a rural village (barangay) located approximately twenty minutes by highway from Polanco. Community services include both an international primary school and high school, active Catholic and Christian evangelical congregations, and a small shopping district including video karaoke with many enthusiastic local singers. Sianib is also home to Barangay Brands International, a test marketing center for retail grocery product promotion and to Comfort of Home Homes, Inc., which is a housing cooperative. Most jobs are in agriculture ranging from rice to abundant seasonal fruit production including mangosteen, rambutan, coconut and banana. Other employers include a beauty products manufacturer, sawmill and a charcoal factory.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123721", "title": "Passion for Life", "text": "Passion for Life\n\nPassion For Life is a combination DVD / live album by Estradasphere. It was released on March 9, 2004.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123722", "title": "President Manuel A. Roxas, Zamboanga del Norte", "text": "President Manuel A. Roxas, Zamboanga del Norte\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nPres. Manuel A. Roxas is politically subdivided into 31 barangays:\n"}
{"id": "2123723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123723", "title": "Rizal, Zamboanga del Norte", "text": "Rizal, Zamboanga del Norte\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nRizal is politically subdivided into 22 barangays. Sitios Mercedes, San Roque, and Mauswagon became barrios in 1955.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123724", "title": "Salug, Zamboanga del Norte", "text": "Salug, Zamboanga del Norte\n\n', officially the ', (Subanen: \"Benwa Salog\"), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMunicipality of Salug is bounded on the nouth by the municipality of Godod the north-west by Liloy, to the east by the municipality of Leon B. Postigo, and to the north by Sindangan Bay.\n\nSalug falls within the third type of climate wherein the seasons are not very pronounced. Rain is more or less evenly distributed throughout the year. Because of its tropical location the municipality does not experience cold weather. Neither does it experience strong weather disturbances due to its geographical location (being outside the typhoon belt) and also because of the mountains that are surrounding the municipality.\n\nSalug is politically subdivided into 23 barangays.\n\nIt could be said without fear of contradiction that most names of the Municipality of Zamboanga del Norte including the province itself derived from the earliest settlers, the Subanon tribes.\n\nIn the earlier part of the history of Sindangan, there were two barrios: Labason and Liloy. Salug then was a mere sitio of the rustic village of Liloy. Legend has it then an adventurous young man from the village of Liloy, on reaching a certain river, was affronted the problem of crossing as there were no signs of available means to ferry him to the other side. While engrossed with this problem, a Subanon coming from nowhere he knew, made a sign asking him if he wish to cross the river. In return, he asked the almost naked Subano man the name of the place. The Subano man thinking he was being asked if there may be a possibility of crossing the river, answered \"\"Salog\"\", a Subanon terminology meaning that the current of the river was very strong.\n\nIn his departure, the Christian carried into his memory \"Salug\" is the name of the place beyond the other side of the river he wanted to cross. Thus Salug become a popular name until it was officially declared so upon its creation into a municipality.\n\nBy virtue of Republic Act 2310 dated June 21, 1979, the Municipality of Salug was created; however, \"Araw ng Salug\" (Salug Day) is annually celebrated on the 18th day of September,\n\nOn December 28, 2007, Salug Mayor Jesus Lim, president of the Zamboanga del Norte Mayors’ League, led 20 mayors of Zamboanga del Norte who protested the Department of Justice's incarceration of former congressman Romeo Jalosjos. Flags in their respective towns were flown at half mast and black ribbons were displayed at town halls.\n\nSalug Municipality is predominantly Christian with Philippine Independent Church or Aglipayan and Roman Catholics constitutes the majority of the Christians. Salugnon is composed of Visayan speaking locals and the minorities that compose of the lumad or aborigine Subanon tribe.\n\nCebuano and Subanon are majority spoken languages. The majority of the population can speak and understand English.\n\nThe Integrated Bus Terminal, located at the center of the municipality, serves short- and long-distance trips connecting other municipalities, cities in Zamboanga del Norte and neighboring provinces. The public modes of transportation within the municipality are sikad-sikad and habal-habal and pedicabs. Jeepneys, van, and bus Rural Transits are available for long-distance travels.\n\nThe Port of Liloy is located 30 minutes away from the Municipality of Salug facing the Sindangan Bay It serves the cargo port for transporting products to and from Zamboanga City, Sindangan and Cebu.\n\nThe main airport is Dipolog Airport, located in the City of Dipolog, a -hour drive from the Poblacion. There is also a neighboring community airport in Liloy but it serves only private and government aircraft for official visits in the adjacent areas.\n\nCurrent municipal officials (2016–2018):\n\n"}
{"id": "2123726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123726", "title": "Siayan, Zamboanga del Norte", "text": "Siayan, Zamboanga del Norte\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSiayan is politically subdivided into 22 barangays.\nGMA 7 reporter Kara David did a documentary on the economic situation of Siayan. Poverty incidence in the town is 97.5% since 3 out of 4 earn an annual income of more than a dollar a month or 5,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123727", "title": "Sergio Osmeña Sr., Zamboanga del Norte", "text": "Sergio Osmeña Sr., Zamboanga del Norte\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSergio Osmeña Sr. is politically subdivided into 39 barangays.\n"}
{"id": "2123728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123728", "title": "Sibuco, Zamboanga del Norte", "text": "Sibuco, Zamboanga del Norte\n\n', officially the ', (Zamboangueño: \"Municipalidad de Sibuco\"), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is also treated like a suburb of neighboring Zamboanga City.\n\nSibuco is politically subdivided into 28 barangays.\n"}
{"id": "2123729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123729", "title": "Sibutad", "text": "Sibutad\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSibutad is politically subdivided into 16 barangays.\nSibutad has 15 schools, 13 of which are complete elementary schools and 2 are primary schools. All are in the Sibutad School District. Schools are:\nSecondary schools of Sibutad:\n"}
{"id": "2123731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123731", "title": "Sindangan", "text": "Sindangan\n\n', officially the ', (Cebuano: \"Lungsod sa Sindangan\"; Filipino: \"Bayan ng Sindangan\"; Subanen: \"Benwa Sindangan\"), is a first class in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is the fastest-growing municipality in the province and the second most populous after the provincial capital, Dipolog City and ranked third as the most populous town in the Zamboanga Peninsula. Due to the rapid demographic and economic growth, there are plans to change the status of Sindangan from a municipality to a city.\n\nAs to how Sindangan got its name, several stories have been told. The first version narrates that a native fisherman carrying a basket full of fish was on his way home met a Guardia Civil, military guards during the Spanish regime, who asked this question, \"\"Que es el nombre de este lugar, amigo?\"\" And the Subanon fisherman who did not understand the Spanish language answered \"\"indangan\"\", believing he asked on the kind of fish he caught. The stranger heard this as \"Sindangan\", thinking that was the exact answer to his inquiry to the fisherman about the name of the fish. From then on, the natives used Sindangan to name the place until it became into a municipality on 1936. A more popular version says Sindangan is derivative of the word “Indangan”, a species of fish abundant in the Sindangan Bay.\n\nThis town sets back its origin during the pre-Spanish colonization of the Philippines. Subanon people or tribe was its first inhabitants. The Subanens, a nomadic tribe of Indo-Malayan stock, were the earliest known settlers who lived along river banks or \"suba\", from which word they received their present tribal identity as Subanen. They built houses and sanctuaries for their shelter and formed their own 'government' ruled by the Datu.\n\nOver the years the Moros settled also in this place and preached Islam.\n\nDuring the Spanish reign in the archipelago where towns had already been established, Sindangan became a part of the jurisdiction of then the municipality of Dapitan as early as 1598 to 1729 and slowly people from the Visayas islands flocked to Mindanao to find greener pasture. Christianity also propagated on this area through the effort of those Catholic missionaries like the Society of Jesus or the Jesuits, the Augustinians and the Dominicans. One of its great missionaries was Padre Francesco Palliola, a Jesuit missionary from Nola, Italy who tirelessly preached the Christian message, perform baptisms and sacraments and helped the tribal people in this area of Zamboanga Peninsula. He was assigned in Dapitan and Katipunan, and met his martyrdom in the barrio of Ponot now Jose Dalman where he was killed by the Subanen people through the leadership of their chieftain. Later on, Sindangan became part of a far town Lubungan now Katipunan since the 19th Century.\n\nOn December 23, 1936, by virtue of Executive Order No. 77 issued by President of the Commonwealth of the Philippines, Manuel L. Quezon, the municipalities of Sindangan, Siocon, Margosatubig, Pagadian and Kabasalan were created out of the municipal districts of Sindangan, Panganuran, Labangan, Dinas, Sibuko, Sirawai, Margosatubig, Malangas, Kabasalan and Bangaan. The Municipality of Sindangan covered the area of Sindangan and Panganuran.\n\nBartolome Lira Sr. was appointed to organize the Municipality of Sindangan and was its first Municipal President. As his appointive tenure expired, he was elected as the first Municipal Mayor of Sindangan until 1941.\n\nIn 1955, four barrios were created:\n\nIn 1959, the sitios of Gonayen, Gowayan, Domogok, Dinoyak, Mangilay, Pange, Balak, Laclac, Siriac, Macasing and Diongan were constituted into the barrio of Gonayen.\n\nSince its elevation to a municipality in 1936, people from Luzon and Visayas continued migrating to Sindangan to settle together with their families and built businesses. That is why aside from the Subanens, there are Sindanganons whose origin are from Bohol, Cebu, Samar, Leyte, Negros, Bicol, Pampanga and Manila.\n\nSindangan lies on the northwest corridor of Zamboanga del Norte. Its diverse geography ranges from Sulu Sea on the west and southwest, the Municipality of Leon Postigo on the south, the Municipality of Siayan on the east, the Municipality of Bayug, Zamboanga del Sur on the southeast, and the Municipality of Jose Dalman on the north. Ranging from plain, slightly rolling, hilly to mountainous terrains, the Municipality of Sindangan embraces 45,100 hectares of land. Of its 52 barangays, 22 are situated along the seacoast, bountifully blessed with marine resources which gained Sindangan the title “the fishing capital of Zamboanga del Norte.”\n\nIt is approximately 86 kilometers away from Dipolog City and 234 kilometers away from Zamboanga City. Hence, the municipality is identified as the trading hub of the province considering, this is a major terminal point for links to Dipolog City down to Ipil and further down south to Zamboanga City.\n\nSindangan is politically subdivided into 52 barangays.\n\n\"Barangay Mandi, Poblacion and Siari\" are the most densely populated area of Sindangan as of the latest count.\n\nSindangan is populated by tri-people – the Subanens, Muslims and the Christian migrants coming from Luzon and Visayan islands.\n\nCommunity-Based Monitoring System puts the number of Subanens as 24,640 or 27.5 percent with the greater number of these indigenous peoples living in the interior barangays. The Muslims – Maranao and Tausug merchants live and ply their trades in Poblacion and its adjoining barangays.\n\nIt has a stronghold of 59,205 registered voters (COMELEC Records as of 2016).\n\nRoman Catholicism strongly dominates Sindangan as shown by their religious festivities and fiestas. Famous to these Catholic Devotionx is the Diocesan Shrine of the Divine Mercy in Barangay Siari, Sindangan where thousands of pilgrims flocked from all over the region to pray and visit to this shrine. Other Christian denominations are also present in Sindangan as well as Islam.\n\nThe Shinyō Maru incident occurred in the Sidangan Bay, Philippines on September 7, 1944, in the Pacific theater of World War II. In an attack on a Japanese convoy by the American submarine USS Paddle, 668 Allied prisoners of war were massacred by the Japanese or killed when their ship, the SS Shinyō Maru was sunk. Only 82 Americans survived the ordeal and were later rescued.[3]\n\nIncident[edit]\nOn September 7, the Shinyō Maru was sailing for Manila in convoy C-076 with seven other vessels, including two torpedo boats, two tankers, and four other medium and small cargo ships. They were sailing two to three miles off the Lanboyan Point of Zamboanga Peninsula on the island of Mindanao, when the USS Paddle found them. A few days previously, American intelligence had reported the Shinyō Maru to be carrying Japanese soldiers, so they assigned Paddle to search for it. The Paddle, under the command of Captain Byron Nowell, was 10 miles away when the Japanese were first spotted, so Nowell maneuvered forward to attack with torpedoes. A spread of four was then released in the direction of the Shinyō Maru, which was the leading ship in the convoy. Two of the torpedoes struck, both in the hold, and a few moments later the Paddle was lined up against one of the cargo ships. It, too, was struck by two torpedoes, so her commander grounded her on the nearby shore to prevent the ship from sinking. Just after the Shinyō Maru was hit, the guards opened fire on the prisoners with captured Thompson submachine guns, though several of the men fought their way out of the hold, with their fists and improvised weapons, and abandoned ship.[2]\n\nThe men of the convoy then began launching boats to pick up Japanese survivors and kill all of the remaining prisoners. A machine gun mounted on the grounded cargo ship and a second on the Shinyō Maru were also opened up on the Allied personnel. Marine Corps Sergeant Onnie Clem later reported the following; \"Up on the bridge there was a machine gun spraying the hatch. A burst of machine-gun fire caught all three of us and knocked us back down in the hold. We'd all been hit. I got plowed in the skull. Another bullet chipped out my chin. Nevertheless, I was able to work myself back up on deck, and I was eyeing that bridge when I came out that time. The gun was still there, but the gunner was laying out on deck. Somebody had apparently got up there and killed him. At this time I found out that we were out in the ocean about two or three miles from shore. All I had was a loincloth.\"[5] Fifteen or 20 others were recaptured and taken aboard one of the torpedo boats, where they were executed by firing squad as punishment for trying to escape. One of those men was able to free his hands which had been tied behind his back, and he successfully escaped by jumping overboard again.[4] The Japanese dropped 45 depth charges and other explosives on the American submarine over the course of two hours, and the ship sustained some light damage, but nobody was hurt. After that, she surfaced and began patrolling the area again.[2]\n\nThe Internal Revenue Allotment of the municipality for Year 2014 is P161,572, 290.00. For the past five years, the IRA has been varying and increasing except for the year 2012 which has decreased by 2.8% from the previous year. This year’s IRA has an increase of 12% compared to last year which is P 141,862,067.00.\n\nIncome from local sources for 2012 amounted to P 17,457,998.60 which has an increase of about 14.5% from the previous year. In 2009, the local income recorded is P 9,548,248.00 and has an increase of 20% by the following year which amounted to P13,080,838.79. Its major income relies on fishing and agriculture. There is also significant growth in the town's business firms as it rises on the past years. \n\nIn 2015, the Gross Sales of registered firms in Sindangan amounted to 1,062,872,781.00 PHP and expects to rise significantly in the next following years. Financial institutions are also growing in the town, as of 2015, it has 42 institutions and banks catering the Sindanganons financially.\n\nThe health capacity and services of Sindangan is significantly improving as health workers such as Doctors, Nurses, Midwives, etc, are growing. On 2014, there are 90 health servers in the town both in public and in private.\n\n\"Source :\"http://www.competitive.org.ph/cmcindex/pages/profile/?lgu=Sindangan\n\nTricycles, 'trisikads' and 'habal-habal' are the common public transport in the town center, both uptown and downtown. Racal Motorcycles are also emerging as public transportation in the town.\n\nSindangan has its own bus terminal located at Barangay Goleo. It can be reached by RTMI Buses (Rural Transit) via National Highway. It provides daily transport from Dipolog City, Ipil to Zamboanga City. SUVs or 'van', Ceres Liners and jeepneys are also available for daily transport.\n\nSindangan has its own seaport located at Barangay Calatunan, facing Sindangan Bay. It is currently managed under Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) and is considered the main gateway of the town's economy.\n\nSports life and social recreation are active in the life of the Sindanganons. They have a lot of sports activities to offer. The town was also energized as its Sports and Cultural complex, one of the biggest in the province was made into a reality. Today, the Sports Complex can already be used for big events such as Provincial Meet, Regional Meet and during Linggo ng Sindangan. Each barangay has a covered court that is capable of handling barangay events.\n\nIn June 2011, Junrey Balawing joined the list of Guinness World Records as the shortest man on earth. He was born on April 15, 1993 in Sindangan. He is the son of a poor blacksmith and measures tall.\n\nIn February 2012, Chandra Bahadur Dangi of Nepal, who stands 54.6 centimetres (21.5 in) tall was declared the world's shortest living man. As a result, Junrey held the record for less than a year.\n\nFollowing the death of Chandra Bahadur Dangi on September 3, 2015, Balawing now holds the title of the shortest living man.\n\nGeneral Alexander B. Yano was appointed on May 12, 2008 as the 38th Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines during the Arroyo administration, the highest position in the AFP hierarchy. He served with love, honesty and integrity in his term. His Vice Chief of Staff was Lt. Gen. Cardozo M. Luna and his Deputy Chief of Staff was Lt. Gen. Rodrigo F. Maclang. Alexander Yano also served as the commander of the Philippine Army and Southern Luzon Command. He is also the first general born from Mindanao. He retired early on May 1, 2009 and was appointed by Pres. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo as an ambassador to Brunei Darussalam.\n\nThese are only some of its places of interest and recreation.\n\n\"Saint Joseph the Worker church became a parish on December 29, 1935 under the Archdiocese of Zamboanga; separating its administration to St. Francis Xavier Parish, Katipunan, Zamboanga del Norte. The first church building was first erected at Saint Joseph School (College), then it was moved to its present spot. The parish is now under the Roman Catholic Diocese of Dipolog.\"\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are 42 financial institutions as of 2015. \n\nEducation is widely distributed in Sindangan.\n\nSindangan has two college institutions, both religious, the St. Joseph College of Sindangan Incorporated and the Philippine Advent College (PAC). Both offer courses in education, liberal arts, and computer sciences. PAC consistently produces nurses passing the board.\n\nThe town has fifty-seven (57) elementary schools, ten (10) secondary schools. Five are situated in the outlying barangays and four (4) in the urban barangays.\n\nA TESDA training center in Barangay Goleo offers technical courses and training to qualified students.\n\nSaint Joseph College of Sindangan Incorporated was founded on March 19, 1968 as Saint Joseph High School and eventually became the first college institution in Sindangan. The college was owned and supervised by The Roman Catholic Diocese of Dipolog until now together with its other institutions like Saint Vincent's College, Dipolog City and Saint Estanislaus Kostka College in Manukan, Zamboanga del Norte. \n\nPhilippine Advent College, Sindangan, formerly known as Hillside View College, a Christian college founded in Sindangan on 1975. Its current president is Mr. Pio M. Cernal.\n\n\nHonors the Primary Patron Saint of the town, Saint Joseph the Worker, Husband of the Virgin Mary and foster father of Jesus Christ. He is entitled as \"El Obrero\" or \"the Worker\" because he is a modest carpenter who works hard to earn a living for the Holy Family and a role model and patron saint for all Fathers and Labor Workers. He is fit to become the town's patron saint because the people of Sindangan are known as hard-worker laborers since the pre-second world war.\n\nIn honor of the Santo Nino de Cebu. There will be a grand fluvial procession at the eve of the fiesta. On the Fiesta day, a street dance procession will be held and there will be a Sinulog Dance Competition contest.\n\nOne of Sindangan's grand festival in honor of its prestigious school's patron saint and town's patron saint itself- Saint Joseph the Worker.\nSaint Joseph's College Founding Anniversary happens on March 19 during the Solemnity of Saint Joseph the Husband of Mary.\n\nThe charter day of Sindangan is celebrated annually. It starts on December 17 and ends on December 22.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123733", "title": "Siocon", "text": "Siocon\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nVisitors describe Siocon as a \"hidden paradise\".\n\nLocal industry includes the Canatuan mine.\n\nSiocon is politically subdivided into 26 barangays.\nIn 1955, the following barrios were created:\n\nIn May 2003, The municipality was attacked by 150 Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) guerrillas and Abu Sayyaf. The attacked commenced at 12 AM in MAY 4. Small group of policemen led by 27-year-old police senior inspector Ranie Planilla Hachuela defended Siocon that lasted nine hours. Hachuela managed to rally his men in putting up stiff resistance against the wave of attacks by the rebels trying to overrun the municipal hall, police station and hospital. For this reason he was awarded the Medal of Valor for risking his life and for rescuing the town mayor and his family.\n\nThe rebel created a bullet proof plan of securing the entry and exit of the Poblacion (town center). Responding government troops were ambushed as they tried to aid the policemen who were so unmanned at the moment.\n\nThat frightening feeling was expressed by wiljun cubero as he narrated how the rebels stormed the municipal hall and fire station right next to their house at Micubo's compound.\n\n13 of the 150 rebels were killed including Jairullah Hassan aka Commander Hairon of the MILF who headed the attacked.\n\nIn the case of casualties, eleven government troops and 25 civilians lost their lives in the assault including two seminarians. Public market was burned down and civilians were taken out from their home as a human shield as rebels withdraw. Some hostages were later released hours after while other strongmen were held for days as they were tasked to carry the rebel's wounded fellow in the thick forest in the municipality of Sibuco.\n\nThe day after the attached, MILF spokesman Eid Kabalu expressed that the attacked was a show of force by the MILF and Abu Sayyaf with in the area.\n\nMost of its 26 barangays have their respective public elementary schools and only few have public secondary schools. In the town proper has its elementary and secondary public schools and a state university.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123734", "title": "Tampilisan", "text": "Tampilisan\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is located in Zamboanga peninsula along the boundary with Zamboanga Sibugay, traversed by the national highway to Zamboanga City. The municipality is from Dipolog City, the capital of the province.\n\nTampilisan is politically subdivided into 20 barangays.\nThe name Tampilisan originated from a tree called \"Tampilis\". This tree is about one (1) to three (3) meters in height, belongs to the palm family. Its sturdy part when split was used by the natives, Subanen, as a substitute for betel nuts. Since this tree were abundant in the area, the place thus called by the native as \"Tampilisan\". \n\nThe municipality was originally a barangay of the Municipality of Liloy, Zamboanga del Norte. In the early part of 1978, because of the concentration of population and potentials of the area and through consultation of the local leaders, Assemblyman Guardson Lood filed a bill in the Interim Batasang Pambansa, Batas Pambansa Bilang 14 an \"Act Creating the Municipality of Tampilisan\". \n\nThe newly created municipality originally comprised seven barangays: Poblacion, Cabong, Galingon, Situbo, Lawaan, Molos, and New Dapitan, with the Poblacion as the seat of the municipal government. Today, the Municipality of Tampilisan has grown to twenty barangays: the seven preceding barangays plus thirteen more barangays: Sandayong, Tilubog, Tininggaan, Tubod, Balacbaan, Banbanan, ZNAC, Camul, New Barili, Santo Niño, Farmington, Lumbayao, and Malila T.\n\nThe first appointed and elected mayor was Cesar A. Bomediano, a former SB Member of the Municipality of Liloy, Zamboanga del Norte.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123735", "title": "Sirawai", "text": "Sirawai\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSirawai is politically subdivided into 34 barangays.\n"}
{"id": "2123739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123739", "title": "Četverored", "text": "Četverored\n\nČetverored is 1999 Croatian film directed by Jakov Sedlar. Based on the novel of the same name by Ivan Aralica, the plot of the film deals with the Bleiburg repatriations. It was the first film to deal with the subject, formerly a taboo topic under the Communist government. \"Četverored\" was aired on television only a week after its theatrical release in Zagreb, in what was widely characterised as an electoral ploy to support the ruling Croatian Democratic Union, which subsequently lost the elections.\n\n\"Četverored\" was the last film role of Ena Begović before her death in a car accident in August 2000.\n\nThe cast also includes Luka Peroš best known for his role of Marseille in Money Heist.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123743", "title": "Casey Siemaszko", "text": "Casey Siemaszko\n\nKazimierz A. \"Casey\" Siemaszko (born March 17, 1961) is an American actor. He starred in a leading role in the film \"Three O'Clock High\". He had supporting roles in films, including \"Back to the Future\", \"Back to the Future Part II\" and \"Young Guns\".\n\nSiemaszko was born in Chicago. His father, Konstanty, was a Polish-born Roman Catholic and a member of Polish Underground who survived the Sachsenhausen concentration camp. His mother, Collette McAllister (1931-2008), was English. Siemaszko narrated the 1998 film, \"The Polish-Americans\". He graduated from The Theatre School at DePaul University, as is his sister, actress Nina. He also has a brother, Corky, who previously worked as a writer for the \"Daily News\" and currently works as a reporter for NBC News.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123755", "title": "Two Men and a Wardrobe", "text": "Two Men and a Wardrobe\n\nTwo Men and a Wardrobe () (1958) is a short Polish black and white silent movie directed by Roman Polański.\n\nThe film features two men, played by Jakub Goldberg and Henryk Kluba, who emerge from the sea carrying a large wardrobe, which they proceed to carry into a town. Carrying the wardrobe, the two encounter a series of hostile events, including being attacked by a group of youths (one of whom is played by Polanski himself). Finally, they arrive back at a beach and then disappear in the sea.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123756", "title": "Bermel Peninsula", "text": "Bermel Peninsula\n\nThe Bermel Peninsula is a rugged, mountainous peninsula, approximately 15 mi (24 km) long and 7 mi (11 km) wide, located at between Solberg Inlet and Mobiloil Inlet on the Bowman Coast, Graham Land, Antarctica. The feature rises to 1,670 m (5479 ft) in Bowditch Crests and includes Yule Peak, Mount Wilson, Campbell Crest, Vesconte Point, Wilson Pass, Rock Pile Peaks, Miyoda Cliff, and Rock Pile Point.\n\nThe peninsula lies along the route explored and photographed from the air by Sir Hubert Wilkins, 1928, and Lincoln Ellsworth, 1935, and was first mapped from the Ellsworth photographs by W.L.G. Joerg in 1937. The United States Antarctic Service explored this area from the ground, 1939–41, roughly positioning the peninsula. The USAS also photographed the feature from the air in 1940, referring to it as \"The Rock Pile\" or \"Rock Pile Point\" from the appearance as a jumbled mass of peaks. The USBGN approved the name Rock Pile Point for the peninsula in 1947, but the decision was subsequently vacated. Although Rock Pile Peaks was approved for eastern summits and Rock Pile Point for the east extremity, the peninsula remained unnamed for about four decades. However, reference to a geographic feature of this magnitude is needed, and in 1993 the UK-APC recommended the peninsula be named after Peter F. Bermel, Member, U.S. Advisory Committee on Antarctic Names, 1979-94 (Chairman, 1993–94).\n\n"}
{"id": "2123759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123759", "title": "11th Panzer Division (Wehrmacht)", "text": "11th Panzer Division (Wehrmacht)\n\nThe 11th Panzer Division () was an armoured division in the German Army, the Wehrmacht, during World War II, established in 1940.\n\nThe division saw action on the Eastern and Western Fronts during the Second World War. The 11th Panzer Division did not participate in the war until the invasion of Yugoslavia. It fought in the Soviet Union from 1941 to 1944 and, in the last year of the war, in southern France and Germany. The formation's emblem was a ghost.\n\nThe 11th Panzer Division was formed on 1 August 1940 from the 11th \"Schützen-Brigade\" and the \"Panzer Regiment 15\" removed from the 5th Panzer Division and elements of the 231st Infantry Division, 311th Infantry Division and 209th Infantry Division. Most of its members were from Silesia.\nThe 11th Panzer Division saw action for the first time in the invasion of Yugoslavia in April 1941. Passing through Bulgaria, it arrived in Belgrade and assisted in the capture of that city.\n\nThe division was then sent to the Eastern Front where it was part of the Army Group South. It participated in the Battle of Kiev and later took part in the Battle of Moscow. At the Battle of Moscow the 11th Panzer Division had its legendary encounter with Panfilov's Twenty-Eight Guardsmen. The division was engaged in retreat and defensive operations after the Soviet counter offensive in December 1941. The 11th Panzer Division's advance finally came to a halt due to the strong resistance of the 8th Guards Motor Rifle Division and the 78th Rifle Division. Harsh weather conditions were also a factor.\n\nThe 11th Panzer Division was part of Case Blue from June 1942 onward, participating in the capture of Voronezh and the drive towards Stalingrad. It avoided being entrapped with the 6th Army in the city but suffered substantial losses during the winter of 1942-43. It was engaged in the failed relief attempt on Stalingrad and then participated in the defence of Rostov, which allowed the German troops retreating from the Caucasus to escape.\n\nDuring operations on the Eastern Front around the Chir River. The 11th Panzer Division acted as a fire brigade going wherever there was a breakthrough by Soviet Forces. During December the 11th Panzer conducted a series of counter attacks against Soviet forces around the Chir River. On 9 December 1942 the 11th Panzer Division destroyed 53 tanks of the 1st Soviet Tank Corps in a counter attack to relieve the German 336th Infantry Division. On 19 December 1942 the 11th Panzer Division destroyed 42 Russian tanks without losing any of its own tanks just south of Oblivskaya. The division engaged a second Soviet attack destroying 65 more Soviet tanks without suffering any losses. By the end of the day the 11th Panzer Division had destroyed an entire Soviet Mechanized Corps. On 21 December 1942 the 11th Panzer Division destroyed much of the Soviet 5th Tank Army during a counter attack along the Chir. The division suffered heavy losses in the process.\n\nIn July 1943, it participated in the Battle of Kursk and the defensive operations and retreat that followed the German failure. It was entrapped in the Korsun-Cherkassy Pocket in February 1944 and almost completely destroyed in the break-out from the pocket. The division was withdrawn from the front and sent to Bordeaux, France after receiving personnel drawn from the 273rd Reserve Panzer Division.\n\nAfter being stationed in the Toulouse area, the division was moved to a section of the Rhône in July 1944. When the Allies invaded southern France in August 1944 it retreated via the Rhône corridor, reaching Besançon. Later entering combat in Alsace, it helped in the defence of the Belfort Gap and was defeated in the Battle of Arracourt before going back to the Saar. In December 1944, the division fought as part of the Army Group G.\n\nAt the beginning of the Battle of the Bulge, which it participated in, the division had 3,500 personnel, including 800 infantry. Following the failure of the German offensive, the 11th Panzer Division entered combat in Saarland and Moselle and fought at Remagen with 4,000 soldiers, 25 tanks and 18 guns that still remained, but was expelled from the region by the advancing US forces.\n\nIt was then shifted to the southern sector of the front, with its forces stationed in and encircled in the Ruhr. The 11th Panzer Division retreated south east, eventually surrendering to US forces in the area around Passau on 2 May 1945.\n\nThe commanders of the division:\n\nThe organisation of the division:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123761", "title": "Leimert Bridge", "text": "Leimert Bridge\n\nLeimert Bridge is located in the Oakmore neighborhood of Oakland, California. It spans and is high above Sausal Creek. It is a cement and steel arch bridge. When it was built in 1926, it was the largest single-span bridge on the West Coast.\n\nThe bridge was designed by George Posey who also designed the Posey Tube tunnel between Oakland and Alameda.\n\nRealtor Walter H. Leimert built the bridge in order to develop the Oakmore Heights area. The Park Boulevard #18 street car line spurred off the Key System and crossed the bridge connecting Oakmore to central Oakland until the late 1940s; the streetcar power lines were then converted to street lighting.\n\nIt became a City of Oakland landmark in 1980.\n\nThe multi-use trails of Dimond Canyon travel under the bridge and can be accessed from the Dimond Canyon Trail off El Centro Ave, or Old Cañon Trail off Benevides Ave.\n\nMailman. Erika. Oakland Hills (Images of America). Arcadia Publishing. 2004. \n\n"}
{"id": "2123768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123768", "title": "Central Station (Chicago terminal)", "text": "Central Station (Chicago terminal)\n\nCentral Station was an intercity passenger terminal in downtown Chicago, Illinois, at the southern end of Grant Park near Roosevelt Road and Michigan Avenue. Owned by the Illinois Central Railroad, it also served other companies via trackage rights. It opened in 1893, replacing Great Central Station (on the site of the current Millennium Station), and closed in 1972 when Amtrak rerouted services to Union Station. The station building was demolished in 1974. It is now the site of a redevelopment called Central Station, Chicago.\n\nAdjoining platforms at Roosevelt served the Illinois Central's suburban trains for both the Electric and West lines, in addition to the South Shore Line interurban railroad. All three lines continued north to Randolph Street.\n\nThe Romanesque Revival structure, designed by Bradford L. Gilbert and built by the Illinois Central Railroad, opened April 17, 1893 to meet the traffic demands of the World's Columbian Exposition. The nine-story building featured a 13-story clock tower and housed the general offices of the railroad. It boasted the largest train shed in the world at the time, which measured 140 by 610 feet.\n\nGremley & Bierdermann Inc. was contracted to provide land survey services and determine the boundary line configuration for the \"Central Station Substation\".\n\nThe station was built, owned and used by the Illinois Central Railroad for intercity trains, with connections to commuter trains and the South Shore Line across an adjacent bridge. It was also used by the Illinois Central's Chicago, Madison and Northern Railroad, merged into the IC in 1902, which reached the station via the St. Charles Air Line Railroad, meeting the IC main line just south of the station.\n\nAlso sharing the station was the Michigan Central Railroad, part of the New York Central Railroad system, which had shared the IC's terminal from its opening in 1852. The Michigan Central connected with the Illinois Central at Kensington. The Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railway (Big Four), also a New York Central line, joined the IC at Kankakee and also used Central Station. Using the station from the beginning was the Chicago and West Michigan Railway, consolidated into the Pere Marquette Railroad in 1900. At the time it used the Michigan Central west from New Buffalo, Michigan.\n\nThe Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, which had used IC's Great Central Station, moved into Grand Central Station rather than relocate to the new Central Station further from downtown. \n\nThe Wisconsin Central Railway (part of the Minneapolis, St. Paul and Sault Ste. Marie Railway (Soo Line) after 1909) switched from Grand Central Station to Central in 1899 due to disagreements with the Chicago Terminal Transfer Railroad, which owned Grand Central. To get to Central it used a portion of the recently opened Chicago, Hammond and Western Railroad (later the Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad) from Franklin Park to Broadview, and the Illinois Central's Chicago, Madison and Northern Railroad from Broadview to the terminal. On December 15, 1903, the Pere Marquette Railroad's line to Porter, Indiana opened, and its trains were rerouted from Central to Grand Central.\n\nThe Soo Line switched back to Grand Central Station in 1912. On March 1, 1925 the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway began using Central, switching from Dearborn Station. Its new alignment used the allied New York, Chicago and St. Louis Railroad (Nickel Plate Road) from Hammond, Indiana north to Grand Crossing, Illinois, where it joined the Illinois Central to its terminal. In 1965 the Soo Line once again switched stations, moving back into Central for its final years of passenger service.\n\nThe New York Central Railroad moved its Michigan Central Railroad trains from Central to the NYC's LaSalle Street Station on January 18, 1957. The Illinois Central Railroad sued the Michigan Central, which had used the Illinois Central's Chicago terminal since 1852, for breach of contract, settling out of court for $5 million.\n\nBy May 1, 1971, the startup date of Amtrak, Central was used only by trains of the Illinois Central Railroad (including the \"City of Miami\", \"City of New Orleans\" and \"Panama Limited\" on the line south from Chicago, and the \"Hawkeye\" on the line to the west) and the Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railway (Big Four) (including the \"James Whitcomb Riley\" and \"South Wind\"). Amtrak continued only the \"City of New Orleans\", \"James Whitcomb Riley\" and \"South Wind\", as well as the IC's local \"Shawnee\".\n\nOn January 23, 1972 Amtrak moved the \"Floridian\" (renamed from the \"South Wind\" in November 1971) to Union Station due to poor track conditions on its route in Indiana. The rest of the trains - the \"George Washington\", \"James Whitcomb Riley\", \"Panama Limited\" (temporarily renamed from the \"City of New Orleans\", also in November 1971), and the \"Shawnee\" - last served Central Station March 5, 1972, after which they were rerouted to Union Station. The \"Panama Limited\" and \"Shawnee\" continued to use the IC to just south of Central Station, where they turned west onto the St. Charles Air Line as a realigned junction and ran west to Union Station, including at least one reversal to reach the station, a practice which continues today.\n\nIn late 1973, the Illinois Central relocated its general offices to the new Illinois Center. Demolition of Central Station and its train shed began on June 3, 1974. The commuter platforms remained until Spring 2009, serving the Metra Electric Line and NICTD's South Shore Line, when they were replaced with more modern structures and renamed Museum Campus/11th Street station. The railyards south of the station are the site of ongoing redevelopment as the Central Station project.\n\nCentral Station was a terminal for the following lines and intercity trains:\n\nThe following commuter rail services operated through the station (southern line electrified after 1926) en route to Randolph Street Terminal (now Millennium Station) approximately 1.5 miles to the north:\n\nThe former Illinois Central electric commuter service is operated by Metra as its Electric Line and the former South Shore interurban is operated by the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123795", "title": "Gordon 86", "text": "Gordon 86\n\nGordon 86 is a Cree reserve in Saskatchewan, Canada located northwest of Fort Qu'Appelle. Also known as the George Gordon Reserve, it is one of three territories of the George Gordon First Nation, as arranged by the signing of Treaty 4. The reserve has an area of . In the 2016 Canadian Census, it recorded a population of 837 living in 218 of its 238 total private dwellings. In the same year, its Community Well-Being index was calculated at 52 of 100, compared to 58.4 for the average First Nations community and 77.5 for the average non-Indigenous community. It is almost completely surrounded by the rural municipality of Touchwood No. 248.\n"}
{"id": "2123827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123827", "title": "Čepkeliai Marsh", "text": "Čepkeliai Marsh\n\nČepkeliai marsh () is the largest swamp in Lithuania, in the territory of Dzūkija National Park. Located south of Marcinkonys village and north of Kotra River, which flows along the Belarus-Lithuania border in this area.\n\nThe area of the swamp is protected as a natural reserve and part of the cross-border wetlands of international importance: Kotra Ramsar site and Cepkeliai Ramsar site.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123840", "title": "The Return of the Fellowship of the Ring to the Two Towers", "text": "The Return of the Fellowship of the Ring to the Two Towers\n\n\"The Return of the Fellowship of the Ring to the Two Towers\" is the thirteenth episode of the sixth season of the American animated television series \"South Park\", and the 92nd overall episode of the series. It originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on November 13, 2002. In the episode, the boys dress up and play as characters from \"The Lord of the Rings\" film series, with several events and characters substituted into the narrative. They extend their game into a \"quest\" to return a copy of the film to a local video store. Meanwhile, the adults have accidentally switched the tape with a pornographic film.\n\nThe episode was written by series co-creator Trey Parker. Both Parker and co-creator Matt Stone have repeatedly referred to it as one of their favorite and strongest episodes of \"South Park\".\n\nThe episode opens with Stan, Kyle, Cartman, and a disembodied Kenny (sharing Cartman's body) playing \"\"The Lord of the Rings\".\" Stan's parents have rented the movie \"The Lord of the Rings\" (specifically, \"\"), and tell Stan, Kyle & Cartman to bring it to Butters' parents, as they had asked to borrow it. Still caught up in their game, the boys see this assignment as a \"quest\", and set off on their journey. Stan's parents attempt to watch a pornographic movie, but discover Randy mixed it and the \"Lord of the Rings\" tape up, and realize that Butters is now watching it at his house.\n\nThe two drive to Butters' house, and come across the boys returning home, having already delivered the tape. Stan's father plays into the boys' imagination and sends them on their greatest quest ever: retrieve the tape, as it \"holds an evil power.\" Excited, the boys eagerly comply and set off toward Butters' house. They arrive and take the tape, but not before discovering that Butters, though not realizing the nature of it, has watched the movie and becomes obsessed with it, even wondering aloud, \"What's happenin' down there?\" before the other boys arrive. Excluded from the game and denied the video, Butters becomes steadily more insane, and remains secluded in the basement, muttering about his \"precious\" and generally acting like Sméagol/Gollum. At this point the Marshes, who have grown worried that the boys have not returned, show up. Distraught at Butters' behavior, they assume that the boys now have the tape and are watching it. Contacting the other parents, they go on a desperate search to find their missing children and \"put it into context.\"\n\nReturning home, the boys run into some 6th graders, who look inside the box and realize that the tape is actually a pornographic movie. Although they try to take the tape, the boys are able to escape and decide to take it to the council of the High Elf of Faragon (Clyde). At the council, at which most of the fourth-graders are present (in \"The Lord of the Rings\" costumes, except for Kevin Stoley, who is wearing a Star Wars mask), it is decided that to determine the tape's power, they should send one of their own to watch it for a few minutes. Talonguard the Black (Token) is volunteered, and steps inside his house for a moment. He soon comes out, expressionless and dressed in his regular clothes, and announces, without explanation, that he is not playing anymore. Now truly convinced of the tape's power, the council decides the tape must be returned to the Two Towers video store in Conifer \"from whence it came\", and forms the \"Fellowship of \"The Lord of the Rings\"\", which consists of Stan, Kyle, Cartman (with Kenny), Craig, Jimmy, and an unnamed kindergartener.\n\nThe boys avoid a run-in with the 6th graders but their party loses Jimmy, Craig, and the kindergartener. Butters, who has been following them, offers to guide the remaining party members to the store in a thinly veiled attempt to get the tape back. Soon all the boys wind up at the Two Towers, and with the 6th graders in hot pursuit they desperately try to return the tape to the drop box. When Butters refuses to let go of it, Kyle throws him and the tape into the drop box. Angered at losing their movie, the 6th graders, now acting as Ringwraiths, threaten to beat the boys up, but flee when the parents arrive. The parents then go into a long discussion with the astonished boys about sex, touching on such subjects as 69ing and double penetration. The boys, who never actually watched the movie that their parents are so graphically describing, are speechless. The episode ends with a view of Butters, clutching his \"precious\" among a pile of other returned tapes in the drop box.\n\nThe episode's plot line was inspired by events from series co-creator Trey Parker's childhood. While in a writer's meeting in producing the episode, he recalled a period in which another boy from his neighborhood found his parents' VHS copy of a pornographic film. He remembered he and others his age rushing over to view the film, and being \"perplexed\" as to what they were seeing. As he was too young to be in any way aroused by onscreen intercourse, he found the naivety humorous and worked it into the episode. The audio for the pornographic film is actual audio from a random video; its use in the episode required Parker and Stone to seek out the distributor to get clearance for it. At one point, video from the film was used in the episode, but it was taken out.\n\nThe episode's title is a combination of those from \"\"The Lord of the Rings\" trilogy.\n\nIGN rated the episode a 9/10, stating \"There's also a lot of nice little jabs at the LOTR phenomenon, pretensions and over indulgence – both in terms of the movies and the books\" and comment on how fun it is for the show to juggle the stories within one scene.\n\nTrey Parker has called the episode one of his favorite episodes of the series, as it follows a simple formula of \"boys being boys.\" Matt Stone also referenced it as a \"quintessential\" episode, remarking, \"If we could make every \"South Park\" episode this good, we’d be totally psyched.\" The episode was included on a 2006 compilation DVD, \"South Park: The Hits\". In the commentary, Trey Parker remarks that the episode is \"Just a perfect example, to us, about how much fun the show can be when it's just kids being kids.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2123844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123844", "title": "Roy Ashton", "text": "Roy Ashton\n\nHoward Roy Ashton (17 April 1909 – 10 January 1995) was an Australian tenor, associated for a while with Benjamin Britten's English Opera Group, and make-up artist who became particularly associated with his work on the Hammer Horror films.\n\nAshton was born, the youngest of four sons, in Perth, and grew up in Menzies, Western Australia, where his father, Howard White Ashton, was in charge of the local bank, handling accounts of prospectors in . His mother was a talented pianist and singer: Dame Nellie Melba had offered to take her to England to join her opera company, but on condition that she remained single. Ashton won a scholarship to Perth Modern School, where his talent for art and music blossomed. He then studied architecture, and worked as an illustrator of architectural subjects. With the Great Depression, Ashton was made redundant. In the spring of 1932 he decided to travel to England to improve his prospects, and joined the crew of a tramp steamer to get there.\n\nOnce in London, Ashton enrolled at The Central School of Arts and Crafts. In 1933 he applied for, and was accepted, for an apprenticeship with the Gaumont-British Film Corporation. His first film, for which he designed and made wigs, was \"Tudor Rose\" (1936), followed by \"The Man Who Changed His Mind\" with Boris Karloff. His final film with Gaumont was \"Doctor Syn\" (1937). He then worked freelance, being involved in a number of productions by London Films including \"Prison Without Bars\" (1939), the first in which he was in charge of make-up. Ashton later confessed that his \"real love\" remained music, and he only applied himself to the craft of make-up, \"an occupation that I did not really enjoy\", to ensure he had a stable means of earning a living \"[h]aving tasted the sadness of unemployment\" while in Australia.\n\nWith the outbreak of the Second World War, Ashton joined the Metropolitan Police in which he served during the Blitz. He also gained a scholarship for the Royal Academy of Music, where he studied singing every other day and where he met his future wife, Elizabeth Cooper, who was also studying singing. He was then drafted into the army where he served for two and a half years. During that time he worked in a secret department, based in the Natural History Museum and headed by Charles Fraser-Smith, whose task was to create concealed weapons and gadgets – \"exploding fountain pens and umbrellas which fired poison darts\" as Ashton recalled – for use by undercover operatives serving behind enemy lines in occupied Europe. The author Ian Fleming is known to have taken an interest in that department's work, later basing 'Q' division in his James Bond novels on the activities he saw there.\n\nAshton was demobbed in January 1946, and was finally able to devote himself to music. In 1947 he joined the Intimate Opera Company: as Ashton recalled, \"in the old days of Grand Opera they used to have Entr'Acte – 'in-between-the-acts' short pieces. In the interval, two or three people would come on and do some other little opera by Mozart, Dibden [sic] and Purcell. ... We would travel all around the country touring for a week doing three operas a night.\"\n\nIn December 1947, Ashton joined Benjamin Britten's English Opera Group, understudying Peter Pears and creating the role of the Mayor in \"Albert Herring\". It was during the first tour of that opera that Ashton married Elizabeth Cooper. Ashton kept his hand in as a make-up artist in film, remaining a member of The National Association of Theatre and Kine Employees; during the summer months, he worked as a make-up artist to support his life as a singer during the winter. Ashton found 1952 a particularly lean year for singing work: with the rise of broadcasting, combined with the fact \"oratorio societies and music clubs, smaller opera clubs had spent all their money in 1951 for the Festival of Britain\", several touring opera companies had to be wound up.\n\nIn 1955, Ashton was finally forced to make a choice. Invited to work with Orson Welles in Madrid for the film \"Mr. Arkadin\", Ashton was on location when he received a message that English Opera Group wanted him to take part in a revival of \"Albert Herring\". Having already promised to work on the film, though no contract had been signed, Ashton turned the EOG job down, so finishing his association with the group. His work as a make-up artist was a more lucrative and stable source of income, so he devoted himself to that career. However he would always fondly remember his singing career: \"Nothing can compare with the thrill of appearing before a great gathering, of hearing the thunder of the applause delivered to a sincere artist,\" he wrote.\n\nOn the production of \"Invitation to the Dance\" (1955), Ashton found himself working as assistant to Phil Leakey. They were soon firm friends, and worked together on several films. Leakey introduced Ashton to Hammer Films, so starting a relationship for which Ashton is best known.\n\nAlthough he had a long and varied career in British films, Ashton is chiefly remembered for his work on the Hammer's horror films. After assisting Leakey on \"The Curse of Frankenstein\" (1957), Ashton found himself in charge of make-up for \"The Hound of the Baskervilles\" (1959) when Leakey, having had his retainer cut by the company's associate producer, Anthony Nelson Keys, left the company in disgust. Ashton's main effort on that film, to transform a Great Dane into the title character, was barely a success, the result only appearing briefly in the final cut. His next film, \"The Man Who Could Cheat Death\" (1959), involved transforming Anton Diffring into \"a living corpse\": \"To produce all the ravages of time and debauchery, I felt that the final effect should be a cocktail of fatal diseases spreading rapidly across his body. Glandular fever, smallpox, cholera, typhus and typhoid, represented some of the ailments that Bonner had come into contact with (through his unseen travels) as a crusading physician.\" The result was widely admired: over a decade later the American make-up artist, Dick Smith, consulted Ashton about the effect to create make-up to age Dustin Hoffman as a 103-year-old man in \"Little Big Man\", and was to repeat the effect in several subsequent films.\n\nAshton subsequently created some of the studio's most celebrated images in films, such as \"The Mummy\" (1959), \"The Curse of the Werewolf\" (1960) and \"The Reptile\" (1966). Ashton was particularly proud of the make-up he created for \"The Curse of the Werewolf\", which he claimed he created quite unaware of the make up by Jack Pierce in \"Werewolf of London\" or that used in Jean Cocteau's \"La Belle et la Bête\". Hearing in advance that Hammer were planning to make \"Curse of the Werewolf\", he obtained a copy of the script and spent weeks in preparation before he was approached by Keys to undertake the job. Ashton also recommended that Oliver Reed should be cast in the title role: \"His powerful bone structure was just right for the appearance and his gifts as an actor were perfect for the part. In addition, he resembles a wolf anyway when he is very angry.\" Through Oliver Reed, Ashton met the Australian dental surgeon Phil Rasmussen, who gave useful advice about creating fangs for the werewolf make-up; so started a professional relationship which was to continue in several subsequent films.\n\nAshton also worked on a number of Amicus horror films, including \"The House That Dripped Blood\" (1971), \"Asylum\" (1972), and \"Tales from the Crypt\" (1972), and worked on Tigon's \"The Creeping Flesh\". As well as horror films, he worked on Blake Edwards' Pink Panther series.\n\n\nNotes\nReferences\nWorks cited\n"}
{"id": "2123897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123897", "title": "Star Wars: Demolition", "text": "Star Wars: Demolition\n\nStar Wars: Demolition is a vehicular combat game set in the Star Wars universe created by both Luxoflux and LucasArts using the \"Vigilante 8\" game engine. Its premise is that the Galactic Empire declares they've officially banned Jabba the Hutt's podraces. Jabba creates a more life-threatening vehicular combat contest to replace the sport of podracing. The game was released on both the Sony PlayStation and the Sega Dreamcast; PlayStation on November 12, 2000 and Dreamcast on November 19, 2000.\n\nThe game received mixed reviews upon release, with aggregate website GameRankings holding an average score of 57.75% for the PlayStation and 65.62% for the Dreamcast. Metacritic reports similar scores: 63/100 for the PlayStation and 67/100 for the Dreamcast. Critics felt that while the game was fun in short bursts it lost its appeal with extended gameplay. Subsequent retrospective reviews and major media replays found the game lackluster. Critical commentary pointed to poor controls and boring gameplay.\n\n\"Star Wars: Demolition\" is a vehicular combat game set in the Star Wars universe. The objective is to be the last vehicle standing by destroying all other combatants. Several powerups can be found on the battlefield which enhance a player's vehicle. These include weaponry, such as thermal detonators, concussion missiles and proton torpedoes, and boost items, which include additional shielding, cloaking, and increasing the fire rate of weapons. Eight playable stages and 13 combatants are included in the game.\n\nFour game modes are offered to players. In Tournament mode players compete in successively harder rounds at a given location. The first round has one enemy combatant, the second has two, and so on. Here players can unlock new characters by completing the mode with at least 10,000 points. Battle Mode is a free-for-all in which players can practice their skills. High Stakes mode adds a gambling aspect to gameplay. Prior to the round start players are given their odds of winning, a bet is then placed, and the player either receives a payout or has credits deducted based on whether they win or lose. Finally, Hunt-a-Droid mode provides only roaming Imperial probe droids to shoot for target practice and is limited to three minutes. Each mode can be played with one or two players on the PlayStation, while the Dreamcast version supports up to four players.\n\nThe backstory of \"Star Wars: Demolition\" is that the Empire declares a ban on Jabba the Hutt's sport of podracing. To replace this lucrative enterprise, Jabba creates a more life-threatening contest where combatants fight to the death in or on vehicles. Several combatants enter the competition. Boba Fett enters, opting to use only his jetpack. Fellow bounty hunter and occasional partner Aurra Sing also enters, a swoop bike her vehicle of choice. Other opponents mount various forms of tanks, landspeeders, and even a rancor to compete in this battle to the death.\n\n\"Demolition\" was announced on April 14, 2000 via StarWars.com. It was developed by Luxoflux and published LucasArts. Before its release it was known as \"Star Wars: Demolition Racer\". This would later be shortened to \"Star Wars: Demolition\". Luxoflux used the same game engine that powered both \"Vigilante 8\" and its sequel \"\". It was initially announced as a PlayStation exclusive, but was rumors circled in July 2000 that the game would come to Dreamcast. This was confirmed the following month. It was released in November 2000 in North America on both systems. A European release followed in December 2000.\n\n\"Star Wars: Demolition\" was met with average to mixed reception upon release. Aggregate websites GameRankings and Metacritic gave it a score of 67.75% and 63 out of 100 for the PlayStation version, and 65.62% and 67 out of 100 for the Dreamcast version.\n\nDan Elektro of \"GamePro\" felt that the game's charm runs out quickly, providing little replay value. The reviewer from \"Game Revolution\" stated that gameplay is \"definitely fun\", but that with prolonged play it becomes easier notice the imbalance in gameplay. The game was critically panned in retrospective playthroughs and reviews of the game. \"Game Informer\" staff members Andrew Reiner, Jeff Cork, Jeff Marchiafava, and Kyle Hilliard found the game appalling in a replay. During the gameplay one staff member asked \"How does it feel?\" \"Oh, it's awful!\" was the reply. The staff felt the battles were too long, gameplay was confusing, and that it was too difficult to damage enemies. It also made \"Game Informer\"'s list of Six Games We Don't Mind Being Ejected From Star Wars Canon.\n\nIn a somewhat more positive review IGN's Andrew Chau, who reviewed the Dreamcast version, noted that despite the game's flaws he enjoyed playing \"Demolition\" \"in small amounts of time.\" Chau's colleague David Smith, who reviewed the PlayStation version, said that the game was a \"very well-done spiritual successor to the first \"Vigilante 8\", though, fixing many of the problems with \"\".\" Joe Fielder of GameSpot said that the game can seem like \"some half-baked attempt to cash in on the Star Wars license, though it's actually a competently executed game.\"\n\nEric Bratcher reviewed the Dreamcast version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it two stars out of five, and stated that \"It's like \"Episode One\" itself: All the pieces are there, but they just don't amount to anything.\"\n"}
{"id": "2123910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123910", "title": "If It's Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium", "text": "If It's Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium\n\nIf It's Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium is a 1969 DeLuxe Color romantic comedy film made by Wolper Pictures and released by United Artists. It was directed by Mel Stuart, filmed on location throughout Europe, and features many cameo appearances from various stars. The film starred Suzanne Pleshette, Ian McShane, Mildred Natwick, Murray Hamilton, Sandy Baron, Michael Constantine, Norman Fell, Peggy Cass, Marty Ingels, Pamela Britton, and Reva Rose.\n\nThe title, also used by a 1965 documentary on CBS television that filmed one such tour, was taken from a \"New Yorker\" cartoon by Leonard Dove. Published in the June 22, 1957, issue of the magazine, the cartoon depicts a young woman near a tour bus and a campanile, frustratedly exclaiming \"\"But if it's Tuesday, it has to be Siena,\"\" thereby humorously illustrating the whirlwind nature of European tour schedules. This concept formed the premise of the film's plot. Donovan sings \"Lord of the Reedy River,\" which he had also written. He also wrote the film's title song, performed by J.P. Rags. J.P. Rags is a pseudonym for Douglas Cox.\n\nLocations where the film was shot include first: London, Great Britain; second: the Netherlands; third: Brussels and Bastogne, Belgium; fourth: Rhineland-Palatinate [with the boat on the Rhein-River from Koblenz to Wiesbaden, Germany; fifth: Switzerland; and last: Venice and Rome, Italy. The film poster shows the cast on the normally pedestrianized Grote Markt square of Antwerp, Belgium, posing for a typical souvenir photo in front of the city hall, with their tour bus obstructing the view of the Brabo fountain which is normally a favorite photo-op with other tourists.\n\nCharlie (McShane) is an amorous English tour guide who takes groups of Americans on whirlwind 18-day sightseeing tours of Europe. Among his various clients on his latest trip are Samantha (Pleshette), with whom he wants to have an affair; a man who desires a pair of custom-made Italian shoes from a certain cobbler in Rome; another man (Baron), who is secretly being set up for a surprise marriage with his Italian cousin; and an Army veteran who is reliving his World War II experiences.\n\n\"If It's Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium\" earned estimated rentals of $3 million in the United States during its initial run.\n\nVincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" wrote in his review: \"\"IF IT'S TUESDAY, This Must Be Belgium\" may be the first cartoon caption ever made into a feature-length movie. If I remember correctly, that was the legend that appeared some years ago under a New Yorker Magazine cartoon showing two harried American travelers, in the middle of a relentlessly picturesque village, consulting their tour schedule. It was a nice cartoon, made timely by the great wave of tourism that swept Europe in the 1950s. Subsequently, I'm told, there was a television documentary that explored more or less this same phenomenon—the boom in pre-paid (two in a room), packaged culture junkets. Now, some years after the subject seemed really fresh, a movie has been made about one such 18-day, 9-country excursion. Even if you don't accept the fact that just about everything that could be said about American tourism was said earlier by Mark Twain, Henry James or even Woody Allen, \"If It's Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium\" is a pretty dim movie experience, like a stopover in an airport where the only reading matter is yesterday's newspapers.\"\n\nRoger Ebert wrote in his review: \"Someone -- Mark Twain? -- once said that the American tourist believes English can be understood anywhere in the world if it's spoken loudly and slowly enough. To this basic item of folklore, other characteristics of the typical American tourist have been added from year to year: He wears sunglasses, Bermuda shorts and funny shirts. He has six cameras hanging around his neck. He orders hamburgers in secluded little Parisian restaurants. He talks loudly, and the female of his species is shrill and critical. He is, in short, a plague. This sort of American tourist does still exist, but in much smaller numbers. My observation during several visits to Europe is that the American tourist has become poorer and younger than he used to be, and awfully self-conscious about being an American. On the average, he's likely to be quieter and more tactful than the average German or French tourist (who doesn't have to prove anything). The interesting thing about \"If It's Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium\" is that it depicts this new American tourist. That's amazing because movies of this sort usually tend to be 10 years behind the times, and I went expecting another dose of the Bermuda shorts syndrome. \"If It's Tuesday\" isn't a great movie by any means, but it manages to be awfully pleasant. I enjoyed it more or less on the level I was intended to, as a low-key comedy presenting a busload of interesting actors who travel through England, Belgium, Germany, and Italy on one of those whirlwind tours. There is a lot of scenery, but not too much, and some good use of locations in Venice and Rome. There are also some scenes that are better than they should be because they're well-acted. Murray Hamilton is in a lot of these scenes, and they're reminders that he has been in a disproportionate number of the best recent comedies: \"The President's Analyst\", \"Two for the Road\", and \"The Graduate\" (he was Mr. Robinson).\" (Ebert’s opinion of Hamilton’s acting was well-founded — and Hamilton did play Mr. Robinson in The Graduate — but the actor was not in either Two for the Road or The President’s Analyst. Rather, it was William Daniels who appeared in all three of the named comedies in the 1960s (he played Benjamin’s father in The Graduate).\n\n\"If It's Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium\" was remade in 1987 as a made-for-TV movie titled \"If It's Tuesday, It Still Must Be Belgium\" directed by Bob Sweeney. The film starred Claude Akins, Lou Liberatore, Courteney Cox, Bruce Weitz, Stephen Furst, Anna Maria Horsford, Kene Holliday. Kiel Martin, David Leisure, Doris Roberts, Tracy Nelson, Richard Moll, David Oliver, Lou Jacobi, and Peter Graves.\n\n\"If It's Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium\" was released in theatres on April 24, 1969. The film was released on DVD on May 20, 2008. Olive Films released a Blu-Ray edition in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123936", "title": "Merritt A. Edson", "text": "Merritt A. Edson\n\nMajor General Merritt Austin Edson, Sr. (April 25, 1897 – August 14, 1955), known as \"Red Mike\", was a general in the United States Marine Corps. Among the decorations he received were the Medal of Honor, two Navy Crosses, the Silver Star, and two Legions of Merit. He is best known by Marines for the defense of Lunga Ridge during the Guadalcanal Campaign in World War II.\n\nHe received a commission as a second lieutenant in the Marines in October 1917, and served in France and Germany in World War I. After the war he held several positions until going to flight school in 1922. After graduating flight school and being designated a Naval Aviator, he performed several assignments in Central America and China. It was in Central America where he received his first Navy Cross and the Nicaraguan Medal of Merit with Silver Star.\n\nWhen World War II started Edson was sent as the commanding officer of the Marine Raiders and earned his second Navy Cross on Tulagi. When his unit was sent to fight on Guadalcanal, Edson led his men in fighting for which he would later receive the Medal of Honor.\n\nAfter World War II Edson held several commands until retiring from the Marine Corps August 1, 1947. After retirement he had several jobs, including the director of the National Rifle Association.\n\nEdson was born in Rutland, Vermont and grew up in Chester. After graduating from Chester High School in 1915, he attended the University of Vermont for two years. On June 27, 1916, he left college as a member of the First Infantry Regiment, Vermont National Guard and was sent to Eagle Pass, Texas, for duty on the Mexican border. He returned to the university in September 1916, but joined the Marine Corps Reserve on June 26, the following year.\n\nHe was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps on October 9, 1917 and in September of the next year he sailed for France with the 11th Marines. This regiment saw no combat, but during the last six months of his European tour, he commanded Company D, 15th Separate Marine Battalion, which had been organized for the express purpose of assisting in the holding of a plebiscite in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. Owing to the failure of the United States to ratify the Treaty of Versailles, this mission, however, was never carried out.\n\nFollowing the end of World War I, he was assigned to several positions that would qualify him for the high commands he was to hold in later years. He was promoted to first lieutenant on June 4, 1920, and spent two years at Marine Barracks, Quantico, Virginia, as the Adjutant-Registrar of the Marine Corps Institute, after which he was sent on a short tour in Louisiana guarding the mail. His interest in military aviation prompted him to apply for flight training at NAS Pensacola, Florida and he earned his gold wings as a Naval Aviator in 1922. Soon after, he was ordered to the Marine Air Station at Guam where he had his introduction to the semitropical islands of the Marianas with which his name was later to become so closely linked.\n\nUpon returning to the United States in 1925, he first took an extensive course in advanced aviation tactics with the U.S. Army Air Service at Kelly Field, Texas, and then attended the Company Officers' Course at Marine Corps Base Quantico, Virginia. He graduated with the highest grades ever attained by any student up to that time. For physical reasons, however, he had to give up his flying status in 1927 and continue his career as a ground officer. He was then assigned to duty as ordnance officer at the Philadelphia Navy Yard.\n\nLate in the same year, he was ordered to sea duty as commanding officer of the Marine detachment on the cruiser and was promoted to captain on December 21, 1927. During service in Central American waters, his detachment was ashore in Nicaragua during the period February 1928 – 1929. In command of 160 hand-picked and specially trained Marines, he fought twelve separate engagements with the Sandino-led guerrilla fighters and denied them the use of the Poteca and Coco River valleys. Here, he received his first Navy Cross for actions in which \"his exhibition of coolness, intrepidity, and dash so inspired his men that superior forces of bandits were driven from their prepared positions and severe losses inflicted upon them.\" From a grateful Nicaraguan government, he was also awarded the Nicaraguan Medal of Merit with Silver Star.\n\nIn September 1929, he returned to the United States and was assigned as tactics instructor to fledgling Marine lieutenants at The Basic School in Philadelphia. Upon detachment from that duty, he became ordnance and war plans officer at the Philadelphia Depot of Supplies for the next four years.\n\nThis ordnance duty was not new to him since he had been closely associated with the development of small arms marksmanship within the Marine Corps. In 1921, he had been a firing member of the winning Marine Corps Team at the National Matches at Camp Perry, Ohio. In 1927, 1930, and 1931, he served with the rifle and pistol teams as assistant coach. During the regional matches of 1932 and 1933, he acted as team coach and captain, respectively. Upon the resumption of the National Matches in 1935, he was captain of the Marine Corps national rifle and pistol teams of 1935 and 1936, winning the national trophies in both years.\n\nAfter short tours at Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island and Marine Corps Headquarters in Washington, D.C., he was enrolled in the Senior Officers' Course at the Marine Corps Schools, Quantico, Virginia in 1936. He was promoted to major on February 9, 1936. Foreign duty as operations officer with the 4th Marines in Shanghai, China from 1937 to 1939, enabled him to observe closely Japanese military operations.\n\nHis second tour of duty at Marine Corps Headquarters began in May 1939 when, as Inspector of Target Practice, he was in a position to stress the importance of every Marine being highly skilled with his own individual arm. He was promoted to lieutenant colonel on April 1, 1940.\n\nIn June 1941, he was again transferred to Quantico, to command the 1st Battalion, 5th Marines, which was redesignated the 1st Separate Battalion in January 1942. The training exercises which he conducted in the succeeding months with Navy high speed transports (APDs) led to the organization of the 1st Marine Raider Battalion in early 1942. This unit was the prototype of every Marine Raider battalion formed throughout the war. He was promoted to colonel on May 21, 1942.\nColonel Edson's introduction to the Pacific theater of operations began with the overseas training of his raider command in American Samoa. On August 7, 1942, his raiders, together with the 2nd Battalion, 5th Marines, landed on Tulagi, British Solomon Islands. Two days of severe fighting secured this strategic island in the Battle of Tulagi. After his battalion relocated to Guadalcanal they conducted raids on Savo Island and at Tasimboko, on Guadalcanal. He was awarded a Gold Star in lieu of a second Navy Cross for his successful conduct of the Tulagi operation.\n\nThe battle he is best known for was the defense of Lunga Ridge on Guadalcanal September 12–14, 1942. His Raider Battalion, with two companies of the 1st Parachute Battalion attached, were sent to a ridge line a short distance south of Henderson Field. Here, they were supposed to get a short rest but Japanese forces unexpectedly attacked the position on the first evening, penetrating the left center of his line of resistance, forcing a withdrawal to a reserve position.\nApproximately 800 Marines withstood the repeated assaults of more than 3,000 Japanese on the \"Bloody Ridge\", as it came to be called. To the men of the 1st Raider Battalion, however, who sustained 256 casualties, it became \"Edson's Ridge\", in high honor of the officer who \"was all over the place, encouraging, cajoling, and correcting as he continually exposed himself to enemy fire.\" His nickname, \"Red Mike\", originating from his red beard worn in Nicaragua days, was also his code name during this battle. From then on he was known by all as \"Red Mike\". It was for this action—the Battle of Edson's Ridge—that he received the Medal of Honor.\n\nAfter Edson's Ridge, he was placed in command of the 5th Marine Regiment. In this capacity, he was one of the primary leaders in the Matanikau actions from September 23 to October 9, 1942. He also commanded the 5th Marines during the Battle for Henderson Field and until the regiment was withdrawn from Guadalcanal, along with the rest of the 1st Marine Division, in November 1942. Shortly after, another officer stated \"that officers and men would willingly follow him anywhere—the only problem was to keep up with him\". A combat correspondent testified that \"he is not a fierce Marine. In fact he appears almost shy. Yet Colonel Edson is probably among the five finest combat commanders in all the United States armed forces.\" It was also said that he was not readily given to a show of emotion but when his personal runner of several months' service was killed at the Matanikau River on Guadalcanal, witnesses said he \"cried like a baby\", and later stated that the man could never be replaced.\n\n In August 1943, he was named chief of staff of the 2nd Marine Division, which was then preparing for the invasion of Tarawa. He prepared an estimate of the situation for this operation which proved to be surprisingly accurate and has since become a classic in Marine Corps military literature. For this action, he received the Legion of Merit and was promoted to brigadier general (December 1, 1943). Later, he was appointed assistant division commander of the 2d Marine Division and participated in this capacity in the capture of Saipan and Tinian. The Silver Star was awarded him for these operations.\n\nBrigadier General Edson became chief of staff, Fleet Marine Force, Pacific and in October 1944 was awarded a Gold Star in lieu of a second Legion of Merit. Duty as commanding general, Service Command, Fleet Marine Force, Pacific, rounded out 44 months of continuous service in the war zone. When a young officer asked him when he might expect to be rotated back to the United States, BGen Edson replied, \"When the war's over; when the job's done.\"\n\nIn December 1945, he was assigned to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations and, in February 1947, to Marine Corps Headquarters. Retirement from active duty came at the age of 50 years and after more than 30 years in the military service of his country. He was promoted to major general at the time of his retirement on August 1, 1947.\n\nFollowing retirement from the Marine Corps he became the first commissioner of the Vermont State Police, organizing the force partially from an older organization of motor vehicle officers. He established the organization on a paramilitary basis which has since been adopted by other states. He served as president of the National Rifle Association 1949–1950.\n\nIn July 1951, after returning to Washington, D.C., he became executive director of the National Rifle Association, where his major efforts in that post were stimulating the interest of Americans in rifle marksmanship. Concurrently, he campaigned vigorously for a Marine Corps adequate both in size and strength for its many commitments.\n\nHe died on August 14, 1955, in Washington, D.C., by his own hand, having committed suicide by carbon monoxide poisoning in the garage next to his Washington, D.C. home while serving in the NRA post. At the time of his death, in addition to his duties at the Rifle Association, he was the navy representative on the Defense Advisory Committee on Prisoner of War Problems. This group recommended the standards of conduct for American prisoners of war that were later adopted and issued as the Code of Conduct for all American servicemen.\n\nHe was buried at Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nMajor General Edson's decorations included: \n\nThe President of the United States takes pleasure in presenting the MEDAL OF HONOR to\n\nCOLONEL MERRITT A. EDSON\nUNITED STATES MARINE CORPS\n\nfor service as set forth in the following CITATION:\n/S/Franklin D. Roosevelt\n\nCitation:\n\nThe Navy Cross is presented to Merritt Austin Edson, Captain, U.S. Marine Corps, for extraordinary heroism on August 7, 1928, while in command of a Marine patrol on the Coco River, en route to Poteca. Captain Edson upon encountering a force of bandits entrenched upon both sides of the river, personally led his advance guard against the enemy, engaging in hand-to-hand conflict with them, and by his exhibition of coolness, intrepidity, and dash, so inspired his men that the superior force of bandits were driven from their prepared position, and severe losses inflicted upon them.\n\nCitation:\n\nThe President of the United States takes pleasure in presenting a Gold Star in lieu of a Second Award of the Navy Cross to Merritt Austin Edson (0–257), Colonel, U.S. Marine Corps, for extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty while serving as Commanding Officer of the Tulagi Combat Group during the landing assault and seizure of enemy Japanese-held Tulagi Island, British Solomon Islands, 7 to August 9, 1942. In personal command of the FIRST Marine Raider Battalion during the initial operation, Colonel Edson advanced the attack of his Battalion and its supporting units with such skill, courage and aggressiveness that he was an inspiration to the entire Combat Group and was directly responsible for the capture of Tulagi Island. His gallant conduct throughout this hazardous action was in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service.\n\nCitation:\n\nThe President of the United States of America takes pleasure in presenting the Silver Star to Brigadier General Merritt Austin Edson (MCSN: 0-257), United States Marine Corps, for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity as Assistant Commander of the SECOND Marine Division during operations against enemy Japanese forces on the Islands of Saipan and Tinian in the Marianas group, from 15 June to 1 August 1944. Responsible for the supervision and training of the SECOND Marine Division, Brigadier General Edson brought the regiments of his fighting organization to a high state of combat readiness in preparation for the Marianas Campaign. Landing at Saipan in the early afternoon of 15 June, he moved his men in under heavy enemy artillery and mortar fire, established communications with elements ashore and vigilantly maintained direct contact until the establishment of the Division Command Post ashore. Cool and courageous, he repeatedly risked his life to visit the front line units, rallying his men and providing expert tactical advice during critical stages of the battle as the Second Division forces pushed relentlessly against fanatic Japanese resistance to render valiant service during the assault and aid in the ultimate capture of Saipan on 9 July. Participating in the invasion of Tinian on 24 July, Brigadier General Edson again demonstrated outstanding qualities of leadership, military acumen and personal valor during the aggressive, sustained drive which resulted in the seizure of this second fiercely defended enemy base in the strategically important Marianas Group on 1 August 1944. Stouthearted and indomitable, Brigadier General Edson contributes substantially to the success of our offensive operations in the Pacific Theater and, his brilliant combat skill, unfailing judgment and iron determination in the face of tremendous opposition reflect the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service.\nIn addition to the Medal of Honor and his other military awards, Edson also received several marksmanship awards including the Distinguished Rifleman Badge in 1927.\n\nA part of Camp Pendleton's Stuart Mesa area was named Edson Range in his honor in 1964. Edson range was built to replace the one at Camp Matthews in La Jolla. The range is used for teaching marksmanship training to recruits from Marine Corps Recruit Depot San Diego. On October 28, 2008, more than 200 volunteers unveiled a monument in honor of Major General Edson during a ceremony at Edson Range. The volunteers used rocks and recycled [ammunition] stripper clips and brass shells from throughout Edson Range in the cement when making the monument.\n\n was a of the United States Navy. \"Edson\" was laid down December 3, 1956 by Bath Iron Works Corporation, Bath, Maine and launched January 4, 1958. The ship was sponsored by Mrs. M. A. Edson, widow of General Edson. It was commissioned November 7, 1958, with Commander Thomas J. Moriarty in command.\n\nEdson hall, the location of the Communications School at Marine Corps Base Quantico in Virginia, is dedicated to Edson as a result of his role as a vocal proponent of the criticality of communications in combat.\n"}
{"id": "2123941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123941", "title": "1949 Australian coal strike", "text": "1949 Australian coal strike\n\nThe 1949 Australian coal strike was the first time that Australian military forces were used during peacetime to break a trade union strike. The strike by 23,000 coal miners lasted for seven weeks, from 27 June 1949 to 15 August 1949, with troops being sent in by the Ben Chifley Federal Labor government to the open cut coal mines in New South Wales on 28 July 1949, with the workers returning to work, defeated, two weeks later.\n\nThe Australian Coal and Shale Employees' Federation (often known as the Miners' Federation) was heavily influenced at the time by the Communist Party of Australia (CPA), and the strike is widely seen by the Australian community as the CPA applying Cold War Soviet Union Cominform policy in challenging Labor reformism, and promoting a class conflict to promote communist leadership of the working class struggle, at the expense of the Labor Party. The strike was seen as a continuation of the industrial confrontation in the 1948 Queensland Railway strike.\n\nThe miners' demands had been lodged over the preceding two years and had included a 35-hour week, a 30-shilling increase in wages, and the inclusion of long service leave as a normal condition of employment. There is some evidence that prime minister Ben Chifley was secretly prepared to concede all demands but the CPA, for its own political reasons, directed that an offer from Chifley be rejected.\n\nTwo days after the strike began, the Labor government passed legislation that made it illegal to give strikers and their families financial support (including credit from shops). On 5 July, union officials were ordered to hand over union funds to the industrial registrar. On the following day, union officials were arrested and the respective union and CPA headquarters raided.\n\nAt the end of July, seven union officials were sentenced to 12 months' jail and one to six months, with fines being imposed on other officials and three unions. Chifley told the Labor caucus, \"The Reds must be taught a lesson\", while Arthur Calwell threatened to put communists and their sympathisers into concentration camps. On 1 August 1949, 2500 soldiers commenced coal mining at the open cut mines of Minmi (near Newcastle), Muswellbrook and Ben Bullen, with seven more fields operated later.\n\nAt the height of the dispute, Labor senator Donald Grant, a former member of the Industrial Workers of the World imprisoned as part of the Sydney Twelve, told the miners: \"I come to Cessnock for one reason. In 1917 ... everyone was behind the workers [in the general strike], but they got beaten. Why? Because the State was against them. I have come here to tell you you won't beat the State.\"\n\nIt is possible that Chifley's decision to use troops to break the strike was influenced by Cold War hysteria or as a reluctant last-minute solution to a major industrial problem. Chifley received regular reports from the Commonwealth Investigation Service (the forerunner of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation) on the campaigns and policies of the CPA.\n\nEarly in the strike, the legality of using troops was investigated, and planning immediately formulated for Operation Excavate during the first week in July. On 14 July the Government was said to be on the point of enlisting the support of the anti-communist Australian Workers' Union to break the strike, with an agreement of the Australian Railways Union (likewise anti-communist) to transport the coal. It appears that such negotiations amounted to a bluff and a political ploy to distract attention from the military operations being planned. With 1949 being an election year, Chifley wanted to demonstrate his Government's anti-communist resolve, but the tactics proved insufficient, and the Menzies Government was elected in December 1949.\n\nThe use of troops to break the 1949 coal strike has been used as a precedent by the Robert Menzies government's intervention on the waterfront at Bowen, Queensland in 1953, and in disputes in 1951, 1952, and 1954 against seamen and waterside workers.\n\nLater, Harold Holt used the navy to break a Seamen's Union of Australia boycott (1967). Malcolm Fraser's government used the Royal Australian Air Force to transport passengers during the 1981 Qantas dispute; Bob Hawke did the same during the 1989 Australian pilots' strike.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123948", "title": "Bowman Coast", "text": "Bowman Coast\n\nThe Bowman Coast is the portion of the east coast of the Antarctic Peninsula between Cape Northrop and Cape Agassiz. It was discovered by Sir Hubert Wilkins in an aerial flight of December 20, 1928. It was named by Wilkins for Isaiah Bowman, then Director of the American Geographical Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123949", "title": "Reveille with Beverly", "text": "Reveille with Beverly\n\nReveille with Beverly is a 1943 American musical film starring Ann Miller, Franklin Pangborn, and Larry Parks directed by Charles Barton, released by Columbia Pictures, based on the \"Reveille with Beverly\" radio show hosted by Jean Ruth Hay. It is also the name of the subsequent soundtrack album.\n\nThe film featured a number of notable guest appearances bysuch important big band era musicians as Duke Ellington, Count Basie, Frank Sinatra, The Mills Brothers, Bob Crosby, Freddie Slack, and Ella Mae Morse.\n\nIn his narration for the 1977 documentary film \"Life Goes to War\", Johnny Carson remarked that while he was stationed on Guam during World War II, he had \"memorized the entire score - and most of the dialogue - of \"Reveille with Beverly\"\".\n\nBeverly Ross (Ann Miller) wants to be a radio personality, but has to run the switchboard at a local station. The blustery station owner Mr. Kennedy (Tim Ryan) wants no part of programming the \"jive that she loves\", preferring the classics. She sends the pompous early-morning personality Vernon Lewis (Franklin Pangborn) away for a vacation, so she can transform his dull classical-music program into a jive session. She invites suggestions and requests, and is swamped by mail from soldiers. She now devotes her show to the military, and the program becomes a success as \"Reveille with Beverly.\" Much of the film consists of musical numbers, visually representing the records she plays. The thin storyline connecting the songs concerns itself with Beverly and Lewis vying for control of the show, resulting in Beverly constantly leaving and returning to her old job at a record store.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123950", "title": "Crocodile tears", "text": "Crocodile tears\n\nCrocodile tears (or superficial sympathy) is a false, insincere display of emotion such as a hypocrite crying fake tears of grief.\n\nThe phrase derives from an ancient belief that crocodiles shed tears while consuming their prey, and as such is present in many modern languages, especially in Europe where it was introduced through Latin. While crocodiles do have tear ducts, they weep to lubricate their eyes, typically when they have been out of water for a long time and their eyes begin to dry out. However, evidence suggests this could also be triggered by feeding.\n\nBogorad's syndrome is a condition which causes sufferers to shed tears while consuming food, so has been labelled \"crocodile tears syndrome\" with reference to the legend.\n\nThe expression comes from an ancient anecdote that crocodiles weep for the victims they are eating. A collection of proverbs attributed to Plutarch suggests that the phrase \"crocodile tears\" was well known in antiquity: comparing the crocodile's behaviour to people who desire or cause the death of someone, but then publicly lament for them. The story is given a Christian gloss in the \"Bibliotheca\" by early medieval theologian Photios. Photios uses the story to illustrate the Christian concept of repentance. The story is repeated in bestiaries such as \"De bestiis et aliis rebus\".\n\nThis tale was first spread widely in English in the stories of the travels of Sir John Mandeville in the 14th century.\nA later writer, Edward Topsell, provided a different explanation for the tears, saying \"There are not many brute beasts that can weep, but such is the nature of the crocodile that, to get a man within his danger, he will sob, sigh, and weep as though he were in extremity, but suddenly he destroyeth him.\" In this version, the crocodile pretends to be in distress to lure prey into a false sense of security. However, Topsell also refers to the older story that crocodiles wept during and after eating a man, repeating the standard Christian moral that this signified a kind of fake repentance like Judas weeping after betraying Jesus.\n\nShakespeare regularly refers to the concept. He uses both of Topsell's versions of the motive, as a trick and as fake repentance. A prominent example is in \"Othello\", Act IV, Scene i, in which Othello convinces himself that his wife is cheating on him. \n\nHe also refers to the version about tricking prey in \"Henry VI, Part 2\", Act III, Scene i, in which a character refers to the faked emotions of the Duke of Gloucester: \"Gloucester's show / Beguiles him, as the mournful crocodile / With sorrow, snares relenting passengers.\" In \"Antony and Cleopatra\", Act II, Scene vii, Mark Antony chides Lepidus, who has asked him what crocodiles are like, with a meaningless description ending with the words \"And the tears of it are wet\".\n\nShakespeare's contemporary Edmund Spenser also refers to the story in \"The Faerie Queene\", writing of the \"cruel crafty\" creature \"which, in false grief, hiding his harmful guile / Doth weep full sore, and sheddeth tender tears.\n\nIn Henry Purcell's 1688 opera \"Dido and Aeneas\", (librettist Nahum Tate), when Aeneas tells Dido he must abandon her to found Rome on the Italian Peninsula, she proclaims, \"Thus on the fatal banks of Nile, / Weeps the deceitful crocodile.\"\n\nWhile crocodiles can and do generate tears, the tears are not linked to emotion. The fluid from their tear ducts functions to clean and lubricate the eye, and is most prominent and visible when crocodiles have been on dry land for a while. In the case of American crocodiles and saltwater crocodiles, the tears help rid of the excess salt that they take in with their food. According to Adam Britton, It is difficult to trace the origin of this particular myth, but it's easy to see why it has become so popular – for an apparently remorseless creature such as a crocodile to actually weep over its victims is a memorable irony which has inspired considerable prose and created a phrase which is still popular today.\n\nIn 2006, neurologist Malcolm Shaner, assisted by Kent Vliet, a researcher at the University of Florida, decided to test the story that crocodiles or their close relatives alligators and caimans were likely to \"weep\" while feeding. Studying animals in Florida's St. Augustine Alligator Farm Zoological Park, Vliet recorded seven caimans feeding. He chose to use caimans rather than crocodiles because at the sanctuary they could be observed feeding on dry land. Five of the seven animals were seen \"weeping\", leading to the conclusion that the story describes a real phenomenon. The researchers suggest that the \"weeping\" may be caused by the hissing of warm air during feeding, which is forced through the sinuses, stimulating the animals' tear glands into emptying fluid into the eye.\n\nThe phrase gives its name to Bogorad's syndrome, colloquially \"crocodile tears syndrome\", an uncommon consequence of recovery from Bell's palsy where faulty regeneration of the facial nerve causes sufferers to shed tears while eating. Russian neuropathologist F. A. Bogorad, who first described the condition in 1926, did so in an article entitled \"syndrome of the crocodile tears\" (also translated as \"the symptom of crocodile tears\"). Bogorad argued that the tears were caused by the act of salivation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123965", "title": "Electrical wiring in Hong Kong", "text": "Electrical wiring in Hong Kong\n\nThis article exists to give readers an insight into electrical wiring in Hong Kong.\n\nBS 1363 is the mainstream wiring system in Hong Kong. In old buildings, the BS 546 system is also common.\n\nDue to its proximity to mainland China, electrical products from there are present in Hong Kong, especially those as a result of cross-border purchase carried out by mainland Chinese immigrants. Nevertheless, even if the product meets the safety requirements in China, they are not necessarily confirmed to BS 1363 standard, thus may have plug and socket compatibility issues when using them in Hong Kong.\n\nBefore the enforcement of the Electrical Products (Safety) Regulation, many types of plugs could be found in Hong Kong. Using this old equipment sometimes leads to plug and socket mating problems. Nowadays, virtually all plugs fitted in equipment sold in Hong Kong are BS 1363 compatible.\n\nMany overseas citizens who bring equipment in from their home countries do not use the British wiring system. Citizens from the United Kingdom and countries that use British wiring systems normally do not encounter plug-and-socket issues in Hong Kong.\n\nThe 2-pin plugs (with round or flat pins) in mainland China are compatible with the British converter plugs sold in Hong Kong. For shavers and electric toothbrushes that take less than 1A of current, British shaver adaptors can be also used.\n\nMainland China three-pin plugs cannot be converted with a British standard adaptors, which are commonly sold in Hong Kong. One can replace the plug or the power cord as appropriate. This is also the case for Australian three-pin plugs.\n\nSpecial attention is to be paid to the earthing of Schuko plugs. Though British converter plugs for Schuko are occasionally found; they are not common. Plug replacement is often necessary. This problem is common for special equipment in optical shops and among the residents of European origin.\n\nThere are old electrical plugs that can be inserted into the British sockets BS 1363 or BS 546, but they do not meet the British Standards. Standards \"BS 1363\" or \"BS546\" are not marked on such old quasi-UK plugs. Some of them are missing the BS1362 plug fuse or the pins are lacking insulating sleeves, among other problems.\n\nSockets of BS546 are incompatible with BS 1363 plugs. Compliant adaptors are not available to convert a BS546 5Amp socket to a BS 1363 13Amp one.\n\nSee the page Common electrical adaptors in Hong Kong and the United Kingdom for information about how to use them safely. Some kinds of adaptors widely available in the United Kingdom are not available in Hong Kong. Moreover, the Electrical and Mechanical Services Department discourages the use of some adaptors in Hong Kong.\n\nThe power cord of your equipment may be replaceable. In this case, new BS 1363 compliant power cords are available in electronic stores.\n\nIt is common for users in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong to wire plugs themselves. In fact, the methodology is included in the physics syllabuses of the Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination and GCSE.\n\nPlugs and extension cables (BS 1363) sold in the UK and Hong Kong come with instructions on how to wire them safely. They are marked on the extension unit, or in form of a separate sheet.\n\nBritish standard adaptors are not always available for many kinds of non-UK plugs, including the 3-pin plugs from the mainland China. It is the only option to resolve the plug-and-socket compatibility problem in many cases.\n\nMany books and websites provide information about wiring a UK plug correctly.\n\nIn Hong Kong, \"registered electrical contractors\" are required to carry out any electrical work (e.g. addition to, alteration of, inspection, testing and repair of an electrical installation), including those in connection with a renovation work.\nSee also Electrical wiring (UK).\n\n"}
{"id": "2123967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123967", "title": "Beverly Hills Speedway", "text": "Beverly Hills Speedway\n\nThe Beverly Hills Speedway (also called the Los Angeles Speedway) was a wooden board track for automobile racing in Beverly Hills, California. It was built in 1919 on of land that includes the site of today's Beverly Wilshire Hotel, just outside the \"Golden Triangle\". The former site is bounded by Wilshire Boulevard, South Beverly Drive, Olympic Boulevard and Lasky Drive. The project was financed by a group of racers and businessmen that called itself the Beverly Hills Speedway Association. The track was the first in the United States to be designed with banked turns incorporating an engineering solution known as a spiral easement. \n\nThe Speedway operated for four years and attracted many historically significant competitors including Ralph DePalma, Jimmy Murphy, and Tommy Milton. It was also the site of a racing accident that killed National Champion (posthumous) and Indianapolis 500 winner Gaston Chevrolet in 1920.\n\nBecause of rapidly increasing real estate values, the Speedway became an uneconomical use of property. The track was torn down and the Association moved its racing operation a few miles away to Culver City, California in 1924.\n\nWooden board tracks were already established in the United States prior to World War I, and such a track had already been successful in Southern California. The Los Angeles Motordrome in nearby Playa del Rey was the first-ever wooden track purpose-built for motorized competition. The Motordrome created a sensation when it was built in 1910, attracting large crowds of paying spectators for two years before it was destroyed by a fire.\n\nThe Speedway Association consisted of eleven members around a nucleus of racer Cliff Durant (son of General Motors' William C. Durant) and William Danziger of the Rodeo Land and Water Company, and included future three-time Indianapolis 500 winner Louis Meyer. The group purchased land from a bean farmer at $1,000 per acre (0.40 ha) in 1919 and began work once the farmer had harvested his crop.\n\nThe circular Motordrome in Playa del Rey had been built by contractor Jack Prince, a British former bicycle racer who was given the work on the strength of his experience building velodromes. Prince had subsequently built a number of oval tracks, many of which suffered from badly designed transitions between the straightaways and curves. The Association's civil engineer, Art Pillsbury, turned to Prince for consultation, found that he was a capable builder but was \"quite innocent of any engineering knowledge,\" and so resorted to a method used by railroads, called the Searle Spiral Easement Curve, to design the track's layout and contours.\n\nPrince and Pillsbury had set out to build the fastest race track in the nation, and they may have succeeded. At the inaugural event for the brand new facility, which was also the opening race of the 1920 Championship season, victorious Jimmy Murphy averaged more than in the contest, a pace that was not seen in time trials at the much larger Indianapolis Motor Speedway until 1923. The race was attended by 50,000 fans.\n\nIn addition to racing, the Speedway hosted other events such as horse shows, and was used as a movie location. The Speedway hosted the opening and closing rounds of the Championship for its first three years, and only hosted a single contest in 1924. The final race was held February 24, 1924, before a crowd of 85,000. On that day Harlan Fengler broke the world record for a race, averaging . \n\nAfter just four years, the 70,000-seat stadium was disassembled to make room for other improvements, as the land was deemed more valuable than the track that lay atop it. The property was sold to a developer for $10,000 per acre. By 1928, the Beverly Wilshire hotel was built on the site of the track's north-west turn. The Speedway Association later opened a new track in Culver City, just south of MGM studios.\n\nStatistics for winners of each race.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123969", "title": "Leah Ward Sears", "text": "Leah Ward Sears\n\nLeah Ward Sears (born June 13, 1955) is an American jurist and former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Georgia. Sears was the first African-American female chief justice of a state supreme court in the United States. When she was first appointed as justice in 1992 by Governor Zell Miller, she became the first woman and youngest person to sit on Georgia's Supreme Court.\n\nLeah Ward Sears was born in Heidelberg, Germany to United States Army Colonel Thomas E. Sears and Onnye Jean Sears. The family eventually settled in Savannah, Georgia, where she attended and graduated from Beach High School.\n\nSears received a B.S. from Cornell University in 1976, her Juris Doctor from Emory University School of Law in 1980, and a Master of Laws from the University of Virginia School of Law in 1995. At Cornell, Sears was a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority and the Quill and Dagger society. She holds honorary degrees from Morehouse College, Clark-Atlanta University, LaGrange College, Piedmont College, and Spelman College.\n\nAfter graduating from law school, Sears was an attorney from 1980 until 1985 with the Atlanta law firm Alston & Bird. For many years she was also an adjunct Professor of Law at Emory University School of Law. She also taught at the University of Georgia School of Law.\n\nSears was appointed by Mayor Andrew Young to the City of Atlanta Traffic Court in 1985. She then became a Superior Court judge in 1988, becoming the first African-American woman to hold that position in the state.\n\nSears was appointed as a state Supreme Court justice in 1992. Twelve years later, in what is historically a non-partisan election, the Georgia Republican Party and Georgia Christian Coalition targeted Sears for defeat in 2004. However, she easily defeated her challenger with 62 percent of the vote, and became Chief Justice of the Court in June 2005.\n\nSears announced in October 2008 that she would resign from the state Supreme Court at the end of June 2009 when her term as Chief Justice ended.\n\nFollowing her resignation from the Court, Sears was named as one of five finalists to become dean of the University of Maryland School of Law. However, in February 2009, Sears withdrew her name from consideration. Sears then taught courses in family law at the University of Georgia Law School and accepted a fellowship at the Institute for American Values.\n\nOn May 13, 2009, Sears announced that she would join the Atlanta offices of the law firm Schiff Hardin, with emphasis on appellate work and white-collar crime. \"I'm going full steam ahead,\" Sears told the \"Atlanta Journal-Constitution\". At the time, Sears was thought to be in consideration for a U.S. Supreme Court vacancy.\n\nOn September 16, 2016, Justice Sears announced her moved from Schiff Hardin to Smith, Gambrell & Russell, with a focus on appellate litigation and commercial disputes. The chairman and managing partner of Smith, Gambrell, Stephen Forte, said: \"We are thrilled to have Justice Sears join our firm. Not only is Justice Sears a preeminent attorney and jurist, she also possesses the leadership qualities that enhance the culture and profile or our law firm.\"\n\nIn October 2016, she joined the law firm of Smith, Gambrell & Russell, LLP in Atlanta, Georgia and has served as a partner since then.\n\nIn December 2016, Sears was featured in \"Balancing the Scales\", a documentary that explores the history of women in law. Topics range from discrimination to work life balance, what it takes to become a partner in today's firms, and what we need to change for women to break the glass ceiling and really have a seat at the table where society wide decisions are made.\n\nSears currently lives in Atlanta, Georgia with her husband Haskell Ward, former Deputy Mayor of New York City under Mayor Ed Koch. She is the mother of Addison Sears-Collins and Brennan Sears-Collins. Sears and her first husband, Love Collins III, divorced in 1994.\n\nSears is friends with Supreme Court justice Clarence Thomas, due to their home towns in southeastern Georgia.\n\nSears supports legally recognizing same-sex marriages.\n\nThe Georgia Historical Society holds the Leah Ward Sears papers, a collection that includes clippings, photographs, awards, correspondence, writings authored by Sears, and other materials that date from 1980-2009. A 2017 book published by the University of Georgia Press, \"Justice Leah Ward Sears: Seizing Serendipity,\" tells the story of Sears' life.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDuring the time that Sears sat as a Superior Court judge, eleven cases in which she rendered a verdict were ultimately reviewed by the Georgia Supreme Court. In three of the eleven cases (or 27% of the time), Sears was reversed.\n\n\nIn 2004, Sears ran for re-election against challenger Grant Brantley. During the election campaign, Sears was characterized by conservative opponents as an activist judge.\n\nHer campaign raised $553,666 and has spent $264,535.\n\n\nThe Sears–Brantley election contest was the first in the state to be conducted under rules that allow opposing candidates to discuss legal issues and each other's records. Until 2004, a restriction existed that forbade discussion of candidates' records or other issues. George Weaver, who tried unsuccessfully to unseat Sears in 1998, brought a successful lawsuit to end that restriction.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124368", "title": "Operation Lifeline Sudan", "text": "Operation Lifeline Sudan\n\nOperation Lifeline Sudan (OLS) was a consortium of United Nations agencies (mainly UNICEF and the World Food Programme) and approximately 35 non-governmental organizations operating in southern Sudan to provide humanitarian assistance throughout war-torn and drought-afflicted regions in the South. Operation Lifeline Sudan was established in April 1989 in response to a devastating war-induced famine and other humanitarian consequences of the Second Sudanese Civil War between the Sudanese government and South Sudanese rebels. It was the result of negotiations between the UN, the Government of Sudan and the Sudan People's Liberation Movement/Army (SPLM/A) to deliver humanitarian assistance to all civilians in need, regardless of their location or political affiliation. This included over 100,000 returnees from Itang in Ethiopia in 1991. Lokichogio was the primary forward operations hub for OLS.\n\nThis mission lasted until the conclusion of the Second Sudanese Civil War with the signing of the 2005 Comprehensive Peace Agreement. It is unique in being the first instance of the UN dealing with a non-state actor like the SPLM/A in order to negotiate the distribution of humanitarian aid within a conflict zone.\n\nAs a result of the breakdown of various provisions of the 1972 Addis Ababa agreement that ended the First Sudanese Civil War breaking down, the Second Sudanese Civil War erupted between the Sudanese government and the SPLM/A. This conflict, alongside massive famine and socioeconomic instability, led to over 2 million casualties. An additional 5 million people became internally-displaced individuals while over 500,000 more fled to neighboring countries as refugees. Subsequently, what has been characterized by the UN as a complex emergency emerged due to the large amount of civilian casualties, the failure of the state and economy, and an increase in security threats to any potential humanitarian interventions. The increasing spillover from the conflict onto other countries in the form of refugees as well as increasing media coverage of the growing crisis led to a call for organizations like the UN to intervene and provide humanitarian assistance.\n\nThe first of these UN interventions, dubbed Operation Rainbow, was launched in 1986 with the support of several donor governments and under the management of the World Food Programme (WFP). It aimed to use planes to fly relief packages to areas that were particularly devastated by the conflict. UN officials believed that a \"food neutral program\" where food aid would be equally provided to both the Sudanese government and the SPLM/A would be the most effective at mitigating the effects of the crisis. One of the first tests of this neutral model came with the attempted concurrent distribution of aid to the SPLM/A held city of Yirol and the government held city of Wau. But, the Sudanese government, fearing negative international media attention because of the dire state of affairs in Wau, rejected the plan, causing UN officials to backtrack their distribution of aid to Yirol due to fears of losing their credibility as a neutral humanitarian actor. This failure was compounded by the Sudanese government under Sadiq al-Mahdi declaring that they would not be able to guarantee the security of airports in the south of Sudan where the UN and non-governmental organizations would need to fly in to distribute aid. The Sadiq government, citing concerns amid frustration with perceived overbearing attitude of the UN and WFP officials involved in the effort, declared that they would no longer support the equal distribution of food to both it and the SPLM/A. The SPLM/A began to similarly opposed the principle of food neutral aid and formed their own humanitarian organization known as the Southern Relief and Rehabilitation Association (SRRA). Amidst this rejection by both parties, international actors lost interest and viewed the operation as a publicity stunt that failed to consider sovereignty.\n\nOperation Lifeline Sudan was created in 1989 under a unique combination of circumstances that led a convergence of international attention alongside an openness to cooperation by both the Sudanese Government and the SPLM/A. In 1988, severe flooding and famine in Khartoum led to massive international media coverage of the ongoing crisis in the region. Additionally, by this point, both the Sudanese Government and the SPLM/A had begun to make moves towards peace. This movement was supported by a newly supportive United States under the administration of George H.W. Bush. This alignment of interests was intensified by international frustration over continued suffering, as well as the diplomatic hostility shown towards international parties under Operation Rainbow. Consequently, a 1989 conference dedicated to relief operations was held in Khartoum, leading to an agreement that Operation Lifeline Sudan would a UN \"umbrella organization\" that would grant both diplomatic legitimacy and operational capacity to humanitarian aid distributed to both sides of the Second Sudanese Civil War. Central to this agreement was the principle that \"corridors of tranquility\" would allow for the safe transportation and impartial distribution of essential food aid through either the air or through roads. This new humanitarian intervention, made with the agreement of both Sudan and rebel factions in the south, was noteworthy in its guarantee of passages through which humanitarian aid could be delivered in a neutral manner without being disrupted by armed combatants\n\nOperation Lifeline Sudan had three explicit provisions that it was mandated to focus on by its agreement:\n\n\nAlongside these provisions, OLS was logistically divided into Northern and Southern sectors that would respectively focus on the northern and southern parts of the conflict region in Sudan. The Northern sector of Operation Lifeline Sudan was noted to have coordinated extensively with the Sudanese government in Khartoum. This cooperation led to this sector prioritizing the delivery of aid to internally-displaced individuals that had gathered around the capital of Khartoum. It also led to this sector undertaking operations that were substantively aligned with the development priorities of the Sudanese government. Consequently, the Northern sector of OLS was significantly more intertwined with the government's interests and regulations, leading it to be less independent and more stagnant. Conversely, the Southern sector of Operation Lifeline Sudan was defined by its cooperation with the Sudan People's Liberation Movement/Army. Because the SPLM/A and its regional allies were non-state actors, OLS was not constrained by international norms surrounding sovereignty which dictated that interventions like it would usually operate in deference to the domestic government. This led to the Southern sector becoming more independent, allowing it to focus more on distributing humanitarian aid. The Southern sector of OLS was also able to use its provision as a negotiator to act as a conflict mediator.\n\nOperation Lifeline Sudan has been noted to have highly successful in delivering humanitarian aid in a conflict region. This is especially significant given that it was the first instance of the UN negotiating with a non-state actor like the SPLM/A alongside a state actor like the Sudanese government to neutrally distribute aid. These negotiations pioneered the creation of a rules-based humanitarian space in which aid could be distributed without fear of interference by parties on either side of the conflict. It has also been noted that OLS was crucial in creating an environment in which the SPLM/A and the Sudanese government could begin preliminary peace negotiations. This is because it created common humanitarian ground that allowed both parties to slowly build trust.\n\nHowever, Operation Lifeline Sudan also experienced difficulty in facilitating the delivery of humanitarian aid when parties did not respect its mandate. This difficulty was made worse by the fluidity of the Second Sudanese Civil War, as the priorities of both the government and southern rebel factions shifted with the development of the conflict, creating an environment where OLS was vulnerable to the interests of the parties that it was negotiating with. Additionally, many have suggested that Operation Lifeline Sudan prolonged the conflict by legitimizing the SPLM/A and other rebel factions through both negotiating with them and through providing them with aid. This is driven by the concern that aid may be channeled into supporting the military.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124374", "title": "Glengowrie, South Australia", "text": "Glengowrie, South Australia\n\nGlengowrie () is a suburb of the Australian city of Adelaide, approximately 12 kilometres south west of the city centre. The name Glengowrie means \"Glen of Gowrie\", so called in honour of Lord Gowrie (formerly, Alexander Gore Arkwright Hore-Ruthven), Governor-General of Australia from 1936-1944.\n\nLocated in the City of Marion, Glengowrie is bounded by the Glenelg tramline to the north, Morphett Road to the east, Oaklands road to the south and parts of Diagonal Road, Panton Crescent and Buttrose Street to the west. The western tip of Glengowrie is approximately 2 kilometres from the beaches of Glenelg, one of Adelaide's best known beachside precincts.\n\nThe suburb occupies an area of 1.9 km.\n\nThe suburb's population at the 2006 Census was approximately 4,720, of which slightly more than half (52.7%) were female. Around 15.9% of the suburb's residents were born overseas, with the five largest groups originating from England (6.6%), Scotland (1.1%), New Zealand (0.7%), Ireland (0.6%), and the Netherlands (0.5%). The most common languages other than English spoken at home were Greek (0.8%), Italian (0.6%), Serbian (0.3%), German (0.3%) and Japanese (0.3%).\n\nThere were 2,104 occupied private dwellings in the suburb, including: 1,352 detached, 468 semi-detached, 281 flats or apartments, and 3 'other'. Approximately 40.1% of occupied private dwellings were fully owned, 31.6% were being purchased and 19.2% were rented. The median weekly household income was $919, compared with $924 in Adelaide overall.\n\nGlengowrie falls under the local-level governance of the City of Marion. It lies in the state electoral district of Morphett and the federal electoral division of Hindmarsh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124382", "title": "Montclair, Oakland, California", "text": "Montclair, Oakland, California\n\nMontclair (also known as the Montclair District or Montclair Village) is a neighborhood in Oakland, California, United States. Montclair is located along the western slope of the Oakland Hills from a valley formed by the Hayward Fault to the upper ridge of the hills.\n\nAlthough there is no formal definition of the neighborhood the general boundaries are Highway 24 to the north, Joaquin Miller Road to the south, the city of Piedmont to the west and the Contra Costa County border to the east. The center of the neighborhood is a compact shopping district known as \"Montclair Village\" which is located next to Highway 13 in the bottom of the valley. It lies at an elevation of 640 feet (195 m).\n\nThe hills of Montclair are heavily forested and generally characterized by winding streets and large single-family houses, homes ranging from small but expensive cottages to mansions and estates. A few small apartment and condominium complexes are located in Montclair, primarily in the Village area. Large single-family homes dominate the housing stock, and the neighborhood includes a wide array of styles –– mid-century modern, Danish modern, Tudor, Mediterranean-Spanish/French, rustic, post-modern, craftsman, and the like, all comprising some of Oakland's largest and most expensive homes.\n\nThe neighborhood includes several of the highest ranked public schools in the city – Montclair Elementary, Thornhill Elementary, Joaquin Miller Elementary, and Montera Middle School. Montclair is located in Oakland's Councilmember District 4.\n\nThe Montclair district is situated around the Hayward Fault which forms a valley running primarily northwest to southeast. The district rises to the west slightly and to the east to the crest of the Oakland hills.\n\nPrior to modern development Montclair was geographically demarcated by two creek valleys, one on the northeast and one on the southwest, that both run mostly east to west from the Oakland Hills down to the valley formed by the Hayward Fault and beyond.\n\nOn the northwest the upper reaches of Temescal Creek run down Thornhill Drive and Pinehaven Road. The creek remains visible above ground in the upper sections along Thornhill and Pinehaven. The creek has two branches that join at the intersection of Thornhill and Pinehaven. From this confluence the creek flows down the south side of Thornhill until Thornhill Elementary School where it then undergrounds and flows down the remainder of Thornhill and then down Mountain Blvd. to Broadway Terrace, before draining into Lake Temescal.\n\nOn the southeast end of Montclair, the north fork of Sausal Creek (also called Shephard Creek) runs down Shepherd Canyon. At Highway 13, near the parking lot of the Montclair Golf Course, the north fork of Sausal Creek has its confluence with the south fork (also called Palo Seco Creek) running from the eastern hills (encompassing Joaquin Miller Park). The creek then runs down through Dimond Canyon and across the flatlands (mostly in culverts) to San Francisco Bay.\n\nPrior to the Spanish Mission era native Huchiun and Jalquin tribes of Ohlone Indians populated the general area.\n\nIn 1820 Montclair and Dimond Canyon were part of the land from El Cerrito to San Leandro which was granted to Luis Maria Peralta. In 1842 Peralta divided his land among his sons and the San Antonio section, including Montclair and Dimond Canyon, went to his son Antonio Maria Peralta.\n\nIn the northern creek valley Thornhill Road dates back to some of the earliest development of Montclair. This was an old 19th century logging road built by and named after Hiram Thorn. Thorn's road brought redwood logs to Oakland out of the vast forest known as the Moraga Redwoods where he ran a lumber mill at Pinehurst Road near Huckleberry Botanic Regional Preserve west of the community of Canyon. Thornhill later became a toll road to Contra Costa County.\nFrom Shepherd Canyon extending toward the southeast the Bayside hills were covered in a vast redwood forest known as the San Antonio Redwoods. Two especially tall trees (the Navigation or Blossom Rock trees) were used by sailors as a navigation aid to avoid Blossom Rock near Yerba Buena Island. Around 1847 settlers started logging the San Antonio redwood forest. In 1850 the area's first steam sawmill was built on the edge of Montclair at Palo Seco Creek in the head of Dimond Canyon. A logging road to the mill was built high along the northern side of Dimond Canyon which later became Park Boulevard. This logging road connected to a wharf at the foot of 13th Avenue and was used to transport the logs down Dimond Canyon to the Bay. By 1860 the San Antonio forest was logged completely. A second logging occurred after the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. In this instance the second growth redwoods (approximately 50 years old) as well as the stumps from the first generation trees were logged. One of the largest redwood stumps ever found (32' in diameter) is in the Oakland hills and only a single old growth redwood (the Grandfather) remains. Current third growth redwoods are protected in parks including Redwood Regional Park, Joaquin Miller Park and Roberts Regional Recreation Area and redwoods of various ages are found in many Montclair neighborhoods.\n\nAfter the first logging period Caspar Hopkins, an early settler of the Fruitvale District, formed the Sausal Creek Water Company and built a dam and reservoir at the upper end of Dimond Canyon. The reservoir later became part of the East Bay Water Company and remained until the early 1920s. Early maps show a road passing the reservoir along what is now Waterhouse Road and extending up towards the dam along the current Upper Dimond Canyon Trail. In 1867, Hugh Dimond purchased the canyon.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century the main line of the Sacramento Northern Railroad ran through Montclair. The tracks ran southward from Lake Temescal and crossed into Montclair over a trestle at Moraga Ave. and Thornhill Dr. There is now a pocket park located here in remembrance of this crossing. The route then ran along a high berm between Montclair Recreation Center and Montclair Elementary School before crossing Mountain Blvd. and Snake Road via trestle and then continued up Shepherd Canyon to a tunnel, the west portal of which was located immediately below Saroni Drive. Today much of the old right-of-way above the village and in Shepherd Canyon is a pedestrian and bicycle path. Although all the old railroad trestles throughout Montclair were removed decades ago, in recent years a pedestrian bridge was built in the same location of one of them, across Snake Road, to connect the two major sections of the pedestrian pathway. The pathway was paved at the same time.\n\nIn 1956, the State of California proposed the construction of a freeway through Shepherd Canyon, connecting to a proposed southern crossing of San Francisco Bay and running through a tunnel to Moraga, then northward toward Pleasant Hill. The proposal was dropped by the late 1960s.\n\nOne of the first schools located in Montclair was at the current site of the now-closed Moraga Avenue firehouse and was named in honor of John Coffee Hays, one of the founders of the city of Oakland. The Hays school was closed in 1913.\n\nThough sparsely populated since the logging days the major residential subdivision of the village and hills began in the 1920s.\n\nThe 1927 Montclair firehouse was designed in the Hansel and Gretel style by Eldred E. Edwards of the Oakland Public Works Department. Following the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake the Oakland Fire Department built a new station house on Shepherd Canyon Road and, upon completion, vacated the 1927 structure.\n\nIn March 1930 the Montclair branch of the Oakland Public Library was opened on Mountain Blvd. near Thornhill Dr. to serve the growing village. The small building was built in the English cottage-style and remains in use today. After 1965 additions were completed for the children's room and patio at the rear of the original building.\n\nMany homes on the north western edge of the Montclair district were burned in the Oakland Firestorm of 1991.\n\nThese parks are in or closely border the Montclair district.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124389", "title": "Spinal Tap (band)", "text": "Spinal Tap (band)\n\nSpinal Tap (stylized as Spın̈al Tap, with a dotless letter \"i\" and a metal umlaut over the \"n\") was a fictional English heavy metal band created by American comedians and musicians Michael McKean (as lead singer and co-lead guitarist David St. Hubbins), Christopher Guest (as lead guitarist Nigel Tufnel) and Harry Shearer (as bassist Derek Smalls). They are characterized as \"one of England's loudest bands\". McKean, Guest, and Shearer wrote and performed original songs for the band.\n\nThe band first appeared on a 1979 ABC television sketch comedy pilot called \"The T.V. Show\", starring Rob Reiner. The sketch, actually a mock promotional video for the song \"Rock and Roll Nightmare\", was written by Reiner and the band, and included songwriter/performer Loudon Wainwright III on keyboards. Later the band became the fictional subject of the 1984 rockumentary/mockumentary film \"This Is Spinal Tap\".\n\n\"This Is Spinal Tap\" was accompanied by a soundtrack album of the same name. In the years following the film's release, the actors have portrayed the band members at concerts and released music under the Spinal Tap name. Guest, McKean, and Shearer toured in the United States in and performed as Spinal Tap in a \"One Night Only World Tour\" on June 30, 2009, at Wembley Arena in London, three days after playing the Glastonbury Festival.\n\nThe trio also portray the fictional American folk music revival band The Folksmen; some Spinal Tap concert appearances have featured Guest, McKean, and Shearer opening for \"Tap\" as the Folksmen.\n\nAlthough the 1984 film portrays the band hailing from the United Kingdom, the three actors who play the principal band members - Guest, McKean, and Shearer - were born in the United States. Guest was however raised in both the U.S. and Britain, and he would subsequently be granted dual citizenship and an inherited title of nobility: 5th Baron Haden-Guest. Kaff and Parnell, who have smaller roles in the film, are both British.\n\nFans of Spinal Tap have assembled details about the band based on fictional film, albums, concerts, and related promotional material, including a discography and a list of the band's former members. Within the context of the band's fictional history, Spinal Tap began as a skiffle band called the Thamesmen in the early 1960s, before changing their name to Spinal Tap. In the late 60s, Spinal Tap was a psychedelic pop band, and has also performed progressive rock, jazz fusion, funk and reggae, but is best known as a heavy metal band. Spinal Tap has also been classified as hard rock and rock and roll.\n\nSpinal Tap's fictional history includes a succession of drummers, all of whom are said to have died in strange circumstances: one in a \"bizarre gardening accident\"; another who \"choked on vomit\" (a reference to the deaths of John Bonham, Bon Scott and Jimi Hendrix) — but not his own vomit; and, two from \"spontaneous human combustion\" onstage. Additionally, it is claimed that police described one of the deaths as a mystery \"best left unsolved.\"\n\nThe band Spinal Tap first appeared in a video aired as part of a 1979 sketch comedy special called \"The TV Show\", a project spearheaded by Rob Reiner and Michael McKean. The video was for the song \"Rock 'N' Roll Nightmare\", in a sequence that was intended as a spoof of \"The Midnight Special\". Participating in the video (and playing the music) were Michael McKean, Christopher Guest, Harry Shearer, Loudon Wainwright III, and Russ Kunkel; the segment was introduced by Reiner in character as Wolfman Jack. The Spinal Tap band members were at this point unnamed. McKean and Shearer had previously been members of The Credibility Gap, a comedy troupe that did both spoken word and musical comedy, and had released a mini rock opera and at least one musical 7\" single.\n\nAlso in 1979, Guest and McKean were members of Lenny and the Squigtones, a band that was fronted by characters from the hit television series \"Laverne and Shirley\". Guest, on guitar and clarinet, was credited as \"Nigel Tufnel\", the name he would eventually use as a member of Spinal Tap.\n\nThe appearance on \"The TV Show\" eventually led to the creation of a film, tracing a disastrous tour undertaken by the aging British metal band Spinal Tap. Reiner hosted the film in the character of filmmaker \"Marty DiBergi\", while Guest, McKean and Shearer took on character names for the project, and further developed their Spinal Tap personas. (Respectively, Guest was guitarist \"Nigel Tufnel\"; McKean was vocalist \"David St. Hubbins\"; and Shearer was bassist \"Derek Smalls\".) Also added to the group was David Kaff (as keyboardist \"Viv Savage\") and R.J. Parnell (as drummer \"Mick Shrimpton\"). Parnell had previously been in the band Atomic Rooster, while Kaff had been a member of Rare Bird. The quintet played their own instruments throughout the film.\n\nThe band Spinal Tap became a going concern, with the group (in character) playing gigs and appearing on a 1984 episode of \"Saturday Night Live\" to promote the film. The character of Mick Shrimpton having died in the film, R.J. Parnell played his \"twin brother\" drummer Ric Shrimpton for these and later appearances.\n\nSpinal Tap \"reunited\" in 1992 for \"Break Like the Wind\", an album produced in part by T‑Bone Burnett, an accomplished musician and record producer. The album was accompanied by a promotional audition for a new drummer attended by Stephen Perkins of Jane's Addiction, Gina Schock of The Go-Go's, and Mick Fleetwood of Fleetwood Mac, who auditioned in a fireproof suit. Despite the auditions, Parnell was retained as \"Ric Shrimpton\" and remained the band's drummer. Kaff did not return, and consequently the \"reunited\" band now consisted of Guest, McKean, Shearer and Parnell (all in character) and new keyboardist C.J. Vanston (under his own name). A promotional concert tour followed, which included an appearance at the Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert, where they performed \"The Majesty of Rock,\" a song they dedicated to Freddie Mercury.\n\nThe band also released the single \"Bitch School\", which became a genuine chart single in the UK, as did follow-up single \"The Majesty of Rock\".\n\nOn July 1, 1992, Tap crossed five time zones for three performances in St. John's, Newfoundland; Barrie, Ontario; and Vancouver, British Columbia, for MuchMusic and Molson's Great Canadian Party. For each performance of \"Stonehenge\", the miniature monument prop was delivered on stage in a courier envelope.\n\nDuring a long period of inactivity in the late 1990s, Parnell dropped out of the group leaving Spinal Tap with no permanent drummer. From this point forward, they have used session drummers.\n\nIn 2000 the band launched a web site named \"Tapster\" where their song \"Back from the Dead\" was made available for download. Tapster was a parody of Napster, a peer-to-peer file sharing network.\n\nIn 2001, the band \"reunited\" for the nine-city \"Back from the Dead Tour\" that began on June 1, 2001, at the Greek Theater in Los Angeles. The tour included a show at Carnegie Hall in New York City and ended in Montreal in mid-July at the Just for Laughs festival. The opening act for some of these shows were The Folksmen, the folk trio seen in the film \"A Mighty Wind\", and also performed by Guest, McKean, and Shearer.\n\nIn 2007, Tap reunited again, this time to help combat global warming. \"They're not that environmentally conscious, but they've heard of global warming,\" said Marty DeBergi (portrayed by Reiner). \"Nigel thought it was just because he was wearing too much clothing – that if he just took his jacket off it would be cooler.\" This reunion also included the release of a new song called \"Warmer Than Hell\". The band played on the London leg of the SOS/Live Earth concert series, and Rob Reiner has directed a short film (entitled \"Spinal Tap\") which was released on the Live Earth website on April 27. The film reveals that Nigel Tufnel is now working as a farm hand looking after miniature horses. He plans to race them. David St Hubbins is currently working as a hip-hop producer and Derek Smalls is in rehab for being addicted to the Internet.\n\nA new album, \"Back from the Dead\", was released on June 16, 2009. The album consists mostly of re-recordings of songs from the original film's soundtrack, as they would have sounded had they really existed and been recorded in a studio.\n\nOn April 6, 2009, the band announced a one-date \"world tour,\" performing at London's Wembley Arena on June 30, 2009. Support on this night came from The Folksmen. The band unexpectedly also self-confirmed for Glastonbury Festival 2009 during an online interview on May 8, 2009 in the \"Philadelphia Daily News\" following a \"Unwigged and Unplugged\" show in the city.\n\nIn November 2012, it was announced the band members would be reuniting for a new BBC show co-written by Christopher Guest, called \"Family Tree\".\n\nIt has been announced that they will reunite at the 2019 Tribeca Film Festival for the 35th anniversary of the film.\n\nOn June 25, 2019, \"The New York Times Magazine\" listed Spinal Tap among hundreds of artists whose material was reportedly destroyed in the 2008 Universal fire.\n\nThe band appeared as the musical guests on an episode of \"Saturday Night Live\" (SNL) in the spring of 1984. Barry Bostwick was the host. At this time producer Dick Ebersol approached Shearer, Guest and McKean to join the cast. Shearer and Guest accepted. (McKean would not join until ten years later, by which time original producer Lorne Michaels was back at the show's helm.) Shearer's stint on \"SNL\" the following season—his second, the first having been the 1979–80 season—was to be short-lived, following creative disputes with the show's management.\n\nIn 1985 at the invitation of Ronnie James Dio, Michael McKean and Harry Shearer took part in the heavy metal benefit project Hear 'n Aid, to raise money for Ethiopian refugees. McKean and Shearer met dozens of real-life metal stars, many of whom were huge fans of Spinal Tap. McKean and Shearer are credited in character as David St. Hubbins and Derek Smalls on the Hear 'n Aid single's front cover (alongside many real-life heavy metal stars); the ad hoc supergroup's single \"Stars\" rose to #26 on the UK charts in May 1986.\n\nAs part of the promotion surrounding \"Break Like the Wind\", Spinal Tap was portrayed in \"The Otto Show\" episode of the animated series \"The Simpsons\", for which Shearer is a principal voice actor. \"The Simpsons\" follows the approach of the original film by presenting the group as if they were a real group. During the disastrous performance, a massive devil balloon on the stage does not inflate properly, and Nigel is temporarily blinded by lasers. Later in the episode, their tour bus is accidentally pushed off a cliff due to Otto's reckless driving.\n\nOn July 1, 1992, as part of MuchMusic's Canada Day \"Great Canadian Party\" festival, Spinal Tap completed an unprecedented tour of Canada in less than 24 hours. Jetting across five time-zones, the band played St. John's, Newfoundland, Barrie, Ontario, and Vancouver, British Columbia. That evening, during a performance of \"Stonehenge\", Tap received their signature, triptych set-piece via Canada Post in a small, bubble-wrap envelope that Derek Smalls signed for onstage. Bemused, Smalls tore open the packaging, and revealed to the cheering crowd the prop which looked to be half the size of the original 18 inch Stonehenge rock from the film.\n\nIn 1993, Nigel Tufnel appeared in the rockumentary \"Joe Satriani: The Satch Tapes\".\n\nIn 1994, \"The Return of Spinal Tap\" was released on video; most of this was live material from a 1992 performance at the Royal Albert Hall, but it also included some interviews and follow-up on the band members.\n\nIn 2000, while promoting Tapster.com, Spinal Tap appeared and performed on the short-lived series VH1 \"The List\" (with Mick Fleetwood on drums) and appeared on the \"Late Show\".\n\nIn 2006, Nigel Tufnel appeared in a Volkswagen TV commercial highlighting their offer of a free, exclusive First Act guitar with the purchase of qualifying automobiles. The guitar features knobs and inlays with the Volkswagen logo and pre-amps that allow it to be played through the car's stereo system. Also in 2006, the song \"Gimme Some Money\" was used in a TV commercial for Open from American Express, \"Tonight I'm Gonna Rock You Tonight\" appeared in Harmonix's video game \"Guitar Hero 2\" and \"Christmas with the Devil\" appeared in BBC One promo spots for the network's Christmas program.\n\nIn 2007, while accepting an award from the BBC Two program \"The Culture Show\", Christopher Guest broke into Nigel Tufnel, and considered what his wife and kids would make of the Mark Kermode shaped award.\n\nOn July 7, 2007 Spinal Tap played at Wembley Stadium in London along with many major bands and groups as part of Live Earth, a Climate Change awareness concert. Their set included a new song written for the occasion, \"Warmer Than Hell.\" During their final number, the song \"Big Bottom,\" St. Hubbins and Tufnel both picked up basses. Spinal Tap was also joined by \"every bass player in the known universe,\" including Nate Mendel (of the Foo Fighters); Robert Trujillo, Kirk Hammett, and James Hetfield (Metallica); Gordon Moakes (Bloc Party); and Adam Yauch (a.k.a. MCA), of Beastie Boys. They were also joined on back-up vocals by Annette O'Toole, Michael McKean's wife.\n\nIn May 2008, Nigel Tufnel appeared in the National Geographic show \"Stonehenge Decoded\", expounding his nonsensical theories about Stonehenge and who was responsible for building it. His claims to have invented \"decoder\" experiments capable of unveiling the true purpose of the monument are, as yet, unproven.\n\nMcKean, Guest and Shearer have made several appearances as their alter egos The Folksmen, including the television shows \"Saturday Night Live\" and \"Mad TV\" and the film \"The Return of Spinal Tap\".\n\nOn March 2, 2009, Christopher Guest, Michael McKean and Harry Shearer held a press conference at the House of Blues in Los Angeles to announce their forthcoming album of new and old Spinal Tap songs, plus a 2009 \"Unwigged & Unplugged\" tour to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the film, \"This Is Spinal Tap\". According to an \"L.A. Weekly\" report, when MTV News' Kurt Loder asked the trio \"if they had plans beyond an album and tour, Shearer answered, 'We're gonna bomb Iran.'\" The tour also features songs from the Folksmen and others from throughout the trio's career.\n\nOn April 1, 2009, Guest, McKean, and Shearer played on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\" as the musical guest.\n\nOn June 15, 2009, Spinal Tap performed on \"The Tonight Show with Conan O'Brien\" as the musical guest.\n\nOn Saturday, June 27, 2009, Spinal Tap performed on the main stage at the Glastonbury Festival with Jarvis Cocker guesting on bass during \"Big Bottom,\" and also inviting Jamie Cullum on stage to play keyboards. One of the unexpected highlights for Tap fans was a rendition of the newly written overture from the mythical Jack the Ripper musical \"Saucy Jack\". Also on the bill were Kasabian, Crosby Stills & Nash, and Bruce Springsteen.\n\nOn Tuesday, June 30, 2009 Spinal Tap performed at Wembley Arena with The Folksmen as support. A variety of special guests featured including Keith Emerson (joined them on organ/keyboards – which he later destroyed during the show), Justin Hawkins from the Darkness and others.\n\nOn July 27, 2009, the band performed on \"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon\" as the musical guest announcing their retirement and shortly thereafter their comeback.\n\nThe next day, Tuesday, July 28, 2009, they were the musical guest on \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\".\n\nOn August 25, 2009, Spinal Tap released a seven-minute short film titled \"Stonehenge: ‘Tis a Magical Place\" celebrating their 25th anniversary. The video is distributed through INgrooves and is available only on iTunes. The short film depicts the founding members of Spinal Tap making a pilgrimage to Stonehenge for the first time.\n\n\nThis list contains both fictional former members of Spinal Tap and celebrities that have played with the band.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124418", "title": "Raging Abe Simpson and His Grumbling Grandson in &quot;The Curse of the Flying Hellfish&quot;", "text": "Raging Abe Simpson and His Grumbling Grandson in &quot;The Curse of the Flying Hellfish&quot;\n\n\"Raging Abe Simpson and His Grumbling Grandson in \"The Curse of the Flying Hellfish\"\" is the 22nd episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> seventh season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on April 28, 1996.\n\nIn the episode, one of Abraham Simpson's fellow World War II veterans, Asa Phelps, dies, leaving him and Mr. Burns as the only living members of Grampa's war squad, the Flying Hellfish. In the final days of the war, the unit had discovered several paintings and agreed on a tontine, placing the paintings in a crate, and the final surviving member would inherit the paintings. As Mr. Burns wants the paintings as soon as possible, he orders Abe's assassination. To escape death, Abe moves into the Simpsons' house, where the family lets him live in Bart's room. Bart eventually joins Grampa in a daring mission to recover the paintings.\n\nThe episode was written by Jonathan Collier and directed by Jeffrey Lynch. It was inspired by several stories about lost art surfacing. The animation of the episode has been praised for its action and underwater scenes. The staging in several scenes was based on DC Comics's \"Sgt. Rock\". \n\nIt scored a Nielsen rating of 8.3, and was the second highest-rated show on the Fox network the week it aired.\n\nDuring Grandparents Day at Springfield Elementary School, Grampa embarrasses Bart with his tall tales, straining their relationship.\n\nAt the retirement home, Grampa receives word that Asa Phelps, one of the men who served under his command in the Army during World War II, has died. Grampa and Mr. Burns are now the only two surviving members of their infantry squad, known as the Flying Hellfish. Unwilling to wait for Grampa's natural death, Burns hires an assassin to kill him. After avoiding several attempts on his life, Grampa seeks refuge at the Simpsons' house. He bunks in Bart's room and explains why Burns wants him dead.\n\nIn a flashback, he reveals that the Flying Hellfish discovered several priceless paintings in a German castle during the final days of World War II. To avoid being caught stealing the paintings, the soldiers formed a tontine and locked them in a strongbox which was hidden away; the last surviving member of their group would inherit the collection. Each man was given a key, all of which are needed to trigger a mechanism that reveals where the paintings are hidden.\n\nAfter Grampa ends his story, Burns breaches Bart's bedroom wall with a cherry-picker and takes Grampa's key by force. After Bart retrieves Burns' and Grampa's keys using a sleight of hand, he and Grampa rush to the Hellfish monument in a local cemetery. After activating the locator mechanism in the monument, they learn that the paintings are hidden at the bottom of a lake. They borrow Ned Flanders' motorboat and head to the location.\n\nBart retrieves the strongbox during a dive. As he and Grampa open it, Burns arrives and takes the paintings at gunpoint. When Bart calls him a coward and an embarrassment to the Hellfish, Burns kicks him into the empty strongbox, which locks and topples back into the lake. After Grampa dives in and rescues Bart, they chase Burns back to shore, where Grampa overpowers him. Rather than killing Burns, Grampa instead gives him a dishonorable discharge for trying to kill his commanding officer and his grandson and expels him from the tontine.\n\nBefore Grampa and Bart can leave with the paintings, several State Department agents arrive. They reveal the U.S. government has tried to find the paintings for 50 years to avoid an international incident with Germany. The agents confiscate the paintings and hand them to a Eurotrash heir of one of the original owners, leaving Bart and Grampa empty-handed. Despite the loss, Grampa is content knowing he has proven to Bart that he is not just a pathetic old man. Having reconciled, they hug.\n\nJonathan Collier, who wrote the episode, got the idea after reading several then-current stories about lost art surfacing. The story then evolved into one involving Grampa and Burns, and it gave the writers a chance to introduce the relatives of some of the recurring characters. The other members of the Flying Hellfish were based on stereotypical war movie characters. The idea of having a tontine came from Bill Oakley, who got the idea from \"an old \"Barney Miller\" episode\". Collier originally named the unit the \"Fighting Hellfish\" but it was later changed to the \"Flying Hellfish\". The logo for the unit was designed using the original name and was not subsequently changed when the name was switched.\n\nSupervising director David Silverman describes the directing in the episode as an \"amazingly brilliant job\". Director Jeffrey Lynch received help from Brad Bird, with whom he worked on many complex staging shots. Lynch did not have any other episodes to work on at the time and was able to devote a lot of time to working on the episode. He storyboarded most of it by himself. The episode contains more effects shots than an average episode of \"The Simpsons\", many of which were worked on by animator Dexter Reed. Other animators that worked on the episode include Chris Clements, Ely Lester, James Purdum, Tommy Tejeda, and Orlando Baeza.\n\nMuch of the staging in the flashback scenes is based on DC Comics's \"Sgt. Rock\" and Marvel Comics's \"Sgt. Fury and his Howling Commandos\". Many of the paintings in the episode are based on real paintings that went missing during World War II. The animators referenced a book of lost art for the designs. Other cultural references in the episode include Grampa's recollection of his brush with death at the Retirement Castle, which is a reference to Dorothy's return to Kansas in \"The Wizard of Oz\". The sequence where Ox explains the concept of a tontine is similar to a scene in the \"M*A*S*H\" episode \"Old Soldiers\". The Flying Hellfish raid on the castle recalls the attack on the chateau in \"The Dirty Dozen\". The scene where Grampa tries to assassinate Hitler is based on \"The Day of the Jackal\". The song played by Baron von Hertzenberger as he drives off is \"Caterpillar (Rabbit in the Moon mix)\" by DJ Keoki. \n\nIn its original broadcast, \"The Curse of the Flying Hellfish\" finished 48th in the ratings for the week of April 22 to April 28, 1996, with a Nielsen rating of 8.3. The episode was the second highest-rated show on the Fox network that week, following \"The X-Files\".\n\nThe authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, wrote that the episode is \"notable for Mr Burns' impersonation of Marge, some spectacular action sequences, and some good underwater scenes – but [it is] not especially brilliant\".\n\nDave Foster of DVD Times said: \"It's easily the highlight of this season in terms of cinematic presence, with wonderful animation, staging and lighting which complements what is essentially a mini action adventure movie superbly realised via Grandpa and Bart. Like numerous episodes this season it also works as another example of family ties being reinforced though never at the sake of entertainment.\" \n\nDVD Movie Guide's Colin Jacobson wrote that \"many Grampa episodes tank, but ‘Hellfish’ provides a very notable exception. It’s a lot of fun to see his wartime past, especially since we find precursors of series regulars. I also like the action swing the story takes, as it becomes clever and inventive. This comes out as a terrific show.\" \n\nAdam Finley of TV Squad listed “Raging Abe” as one of the most touching episodes of \"The Simpsons\", noting that it is \"more 'crazy action flick' than emotional, but I list it here because it shows Grandpa Simpson as someone other than a crazy old coot.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2124432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124432", "title": "Key West Agreement", "text": "Key West Agreement\n\nThe Key West Agreement is the colloquial name for the policy paper Functions of the Armed Forces and the Joint Chiefs of Staff drafted by James V. Forrestal, the first United States Secretary of Defense. Its most prominent feature was an outline for the division of air assets between the Army, Navy, and the newly created Air Force which, with modifications, continues to provide the basis for the division of these assets in the U.S. military today.\n\nThe basic outline for the document was agreed to at a meeting of the United States service chiefs that took place from March 11 to March 14, 1948 in Key West, Florida, and was finalized after subsequent meetings in Washington, D.C. President Harry S. Truman approved the agreement on April 21, 1948, which was revised in 1954 by the Dwight D. Eisenhower administration.\n\nThe Key West Agreement is a revised version of a collection of documents approved by President Harry S. Truman, and the more popular version as well. Initially, Secretary Forrestal told Gen Omar N. Bradley, shortly after the latter became Chief of Staff of the Army in February 1948, that the large aircraft carrier had already been approved and would be built. Secretary Forrestal, nevertheless, concluded that the time had come to decide who will constitute the power over Air Force. Hence, he assembled the Joint Chiefs of Staff at Key West, Florida, on 11 March 1948 to thrash out the roles and missions. As basic guidance, Forrestal demanded that the three services each recognize the need for mutual support of each other’s legal missions. According to Forrestal, the Joint Chiefs of Staff reached basic agreement that the Navy would proceed functions – including the 65,000-ton aircraft carrier and nuclear bombs that could be transported on naval aircraft – provided that the Navy would not develop a separate strategic air force. The Air Force recognized the right and need for the Navy to participate in an all-out air campaign and to attack inland enemy targets, for example, air fields from which hostile aircraft might be launched to attack a fleet. The formal agreements of the Joint Chiefs of Staff were subsequently approved by President Truman on 21 April 1948 and issued under the title of “Functions of the Armed Forces and the Joint Chiefs of Staff.\"\n\nIn turn, President Truman revoked , in which he prescribed the primary functions and responsibilities of the Armed Forces, and Secretary Forrestal issued the “functions paper” in its stead April 21. The paper, which became known as “Key West Agreement,” reaffirmed primary service responsibilities and assigned secondary or “collateral” missions. A memorandum formally recording these understandings, commonly known as the “Key West Agreement,” was sent to the Secretary of Defense by the Joint Chiefs of Staff on 29 April 1948. After amending one paragraph that dealt with research and development, the Secretary of Defense formally approved it on 1 July 1948.\n\nLess than a year after Truman’s executive order was issued, the Key West Agreement listed service functions in greater detail and distinguished between primary and collateral functions as illustrated by the following list of Air Force functions:\n\n\nFrom the Army’s perspective, close air support (CAS) is one of the primary support functions that the U.S. Air Force provides to Army combat operations. A benchmark 1948 policy agreement among the services, the Key West Agreement, originally delineated this function. This agreement integrated the Armed Forces into an “efficient team of land, naval, and air forces,” and, within that arrangement, the Air Force was given a primary mission to furnish close combat and logistical air support to the Army, to include air lift, support, and resupply of airborne operations, aerial photography, tactical reconnaissance, and interdiction of enemy land power and communications. Historically, CAS has been a function assigned to Air Force fixed wing aircraft. Assignment of CAS responsibility to the Air Force grew out of the Key West Agreement of 1948. Since that time, however, the nature of combat and weaponry has evolved to a high level of technological sophistication. This was illustrated in combat experiences, as in Just Cause in Panama and the Persian Gulf War.\n\nA similar conference to revise the agreement was proposed in 1993. </ref>\n\n\nThe Key West Agreement of 1948 was therefore vital in keeping the roles and missions of naval aviation under the control of the Navy. The Key West Agreement gave the Navy written verification that it controlled all aspects of its aviation arm, from the roles and missions, research and development, and utilization in combat. Though historians often cite the passage of the National Security Act and the Revolt of the Admirals as the key points in saving naval aviation, the agreement was just as important in the keeping land- and carrier-based naval aviation from being incorporated into the United States Air Force. Without the Key West Agreement, naval aviation might have developed under Air Force control during the Cold War years. The terms of the Key West Agreement were considered as a tremendous victory for the Navy. The Navy in the Key West Conference stopped the Air Force from controlling the roles and missions of naval aviation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124436", "title": "Local oscillator", "text": "Local oscillator\n\nIn electronics, a local oscillator (LO) is an electronic oscillator used with a mixer to change the frequency of a signal. This frequency conversion process, also called heterodyning, produces the sum and difference frequencies from the frequency of the local oscillator and frequency of the input signal. Processing a signal at a fixed frequency gives a radio receiver improved performance.\nIn many receivers, the function of local oscillator and mixer is combined in one stage called a \"converter\" - this reduces the space, cost, and power consumption by combining both functions into one active device. \n\nLocal oscillators are used in the superheterodyne receiver, the most common type of radio receiver circuit. They are also used in many other communications circuits such as modems, cable television set top boxes, frequency division multiplexing systems used in telephone trunklines, microwave relay systems, telemetry systems, atomic clocks, radio telescopes, and military electronic countermeasure (antijamming) systems.\nIn satellite television reception, the microwave frequencies used from the satellite down to the receiving antenna are converted to lower frequencies by a local oscillator and mixer mounted at the antenna. This allows the received signals to be sent over a length of cable that would otherwise have unacceptable signal loss at the original reception frequency. In this application, the local oscillator is of a fixed frequency and the down-converted signal frequency is variable. \n\nApplication of local oscillators in a receiver design requires care to ensure no spurious signals are radiated. Such signals can cause interference in the operation of other receivers.\nThe performance of a signal processing system depends on the characteristics of the local oscillator. The local oscillator must produce a stable frequency with low harmonics. Stability must take into account temperature, voltage, and mechanical drift as factors. The oscillator must produce enough output power to effectively drive subsequent stages of circuitry, such as mixers or frequency multipliers. It must have low phase noise where the timing of the signal is critical. In a channelized receiver system, the precision of tuning of the frequency synthesizer must be compatible with the channel spacing of the desired signals. \n\nA crystal oscillator is one common type of local oscillator that provides good stability and performance at relatively low cost, but its frequency is fixed, so changing frequencies requires changing the crystal. Tuning to different frequencies requires a variable-frequency oscillator which leads to a compromise between stability and tunability. With the advent of high-speed digital microelectronics, modern systems can use frequency synthesizers to obtain a stable tunable local oscillator, but care must still be taken to maintain adequate noise characteristics in the result.\n\nDetection of local oscillator radiation may disclose the presence of the receiver, such as in detection of automotive radar detectors, or detection of unlicensed television broadcast receivers in some countries. \n\n"}
{"id": "2124448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124448", "title": "Arorae", "text": "Arorae\n\nArorae (previously known as Arorai, Arurai, Hope Island or Hurd) is an atoll in Kiribati located near the equator. Arorae is the southernmost island in the Gilbert Islands group. It houses almost 1300 people on 9.5 square kilometres.\n\nThe atoll's area is The atoll is a low and flat coralline island with an elongated shape. It is 9 km in length and 1 km wide. Because it is a small atoll, there is no lagoon.\n\nThe population of Arorae in the 2010 census was 1,279, most of whom are Protestants.\n\nThere are only two villages on the island, Tamaroa, the northern village and Roreti (a local transliteration of \"Royalist\"), the southern village. The government station is located between the two villages at Taribo. There are churches at Tamaroa and Roreti. These churches were built from pure limestone rock hacked from the island base itself in the early 1870s during the initial establishment of Christianity on the island by the London Missionary Society, which later became the Kiribati Protestant Church (KPC).\n\n\nArorae culture has been influenced by Samoa more than most of the other atolls in the Gilbert Islands (Kiribati). This is because Samoan missionaries settled there and converted the island's residents to the Protestant Church. The Samoan presence in Arorae shaped their style of dancing, making Arorae known for the \"taubati\", a dance using claps, slaps, and stomps as visual percussion to accompany local songs.\n\nBecause it is a more remote outer-island within the Gilbert line of the Republic of Kiribati, it is known for maintaining a more traditional culture held together mostly under the authority of \"unimwane\" (village elders).\n\nArorae fishermen are skilled at catching large tuna and shark using hand lines. Arorae fisherman usually save the dorsal shark fin to export for shark fin soup; however, the island has a strict law against cutting the dorsal fin of any shark without taking the entire shark ashore for food.\n\nAt the northern tip of Arorae is a set of stones (circa 1000 - 1500 AD) that mark out the initial directions for voyages to the other islands - Tamana, Nikunau, Beru and Onotoa. These stones are no longer visible from the sea, but are still called \"Te Atibu ni Borau\" or \"navigational stones\". Close to the navigational stones is the \"migratory\" beach, which disappears and reappears at certain times of the year.\n\nArorae Post Office opened around 1923.\n\nArorae Island Airport, featuring Air Kiribati scheduled service on Thursdays, is located in the north of the island, north of the village of Tamaroa.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124475", "title": "Valve float", "text": "Valve float\n\nValve float is an adverse condition which can occur at high engine speeds when the poppet valves in an internal combustion engine valvetrain do not properly follow the closure phase of the cam lobe profile. This reduces engine efficiency and performance. There is also a significant risk of severe engine damage due to valve spring damage and/or pistons contacting the valves.\n\n'Valve loft' is intentional, using a controlled valve float to increase lift and duration of the valve open cycle. In some motorsports there are rules that limit camshaft lift, provoking this type of exploitation. Properly optimizing the system avoids undue stresses to the camshaft lobes and tappets.\n\n'Valve bounce' is a related condition where the valve does not stay seated, due to the combined effects of the valve's inertia and resonance of metallic valve springs that reduce the closing force and allow the valve to re-open partially.\n\nStiffer valve springs can help prevent valve float and valve bounce but at the expense of increased friction losses, higher stresses, and more rapid wear in the valvetrain. Various techniques have been used to offset the effect of stiffer springs, such as dual-spring and progressive-sprung valves, roller-tipped tappets, and pneumatic valve springs.\n\nValve float can also be prevented by using lighter valvetrain components. Titanium valves, retainers, and pushrods are commonly used for this purpose. Undercut valves can both increase flow and decrease weight. Also, by using more than the traditional two valves per cylinder, smaller and lighter valves can be used. By reducing valvetrain mass, valves can close more rapidly with a given spring stiffness.\n\nPneumatic valve springs have been used in Formula One racing. Since the 1960s, Italian motorcycle manufacturer Ducati has used a desmodromic valvetrain to counter this problem and allow for higher engine speeds by using positive closing as well as opening of the valves, without springs. The system consists of a mechanical lifter mechanism that uses a second rocker arm to push the valve closed.\n"}
{"id": "2124482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124482", "title": "XMK", "text": "XMK\n\nXMK may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2124495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124495", "title": "Tacheng", "text": "Tacheng\n\nTacheng (), as the official romanized name, also transliterated from Mongolian as Qoqak, is a county-level city (1994 est. pop. 56,400) and the administrative seat of Tacheng Prefecture, in northern Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture, Xinjiang.\n\nThe city was sometimes called Tarbaghatay or Tarbagatai (Mongolian: 'having marmots') and in European languages as Chuguchak (based on its name in the Mongolian language).\nThe current official Chinese name Tacheng is an abbreviation of \"Tarbaghatay City\". The current Uyghur name is Qöqäk transliterated from Mongolian.\n\nIt is located in the Dzungarian Basin, some from the Chinese border with Kazakhstan. For a long time it has been a major center for trade with Central Asia because it is an agricultural hub. Its industries include food processing, textiles, and utilities.\n\nIn the mid-19th century, Chuguchak was considered the most important commercial center of Western China after Ghulja (Yining), being an important center of trade between China and Russia, in particular in tea. The city, surrounded by an earth wall, was the residence of two Qing ambans and had a garrison of some 1,000 Chinese soldiers and 1,500 Manchu and Mongol soldiers.\n\nChuguchak suffered harshly in 1865, during the fighting between the Qing forces and the Dungan and Uyghur rebels.\n\nThe Bakhtu border crossing () into Kazakhstan is located from Tacheng. The checkpoint on the Kazakh side of the border is also known as Bakhty and is located from Makanchi in East Kazakhstan Province. In April 1962, during the (), over 60,000 Chinese nationals, including around 48,000 Tacheng residents, illegally crossed the Xinjiang–Kazakh SSR border, leading to massive economic loss in Tacheng; the border crossing closed in August of that year. The crossing re-opened on 20 October 1990, and was deemed a \"first-class port of entry\" () on 14 March 1994. On 1 July 1995, the crossing opened to use by third nations.\n\nSubdistricts ()\nTown ()\n\nTownships ()\n\nEthnic Townships ()\n\nOther\n\nTacheng has a typical Xinjiang cool semi-arid climate (Köppen \"BSk\") that is almost moist enough to be a hot summer humid continental climate (Köppen \"Dfa\"), as being on the west side of the Altay Mountains the region receives more winter snowfall than most of Xinjiang.\nThe Karamay–Tacheng Railway (opened on May 30, 2019) connects Tacheng with Baikouquan Station () on the Kuytun–Beitun Railway\nin Karamay City. It takes 9 hours from Tacheng to Ürümqi.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124520", "title": "Enbridge Pipeline System", "text": "Enbridge Pipeline System\n\nThe Enbridge Pipeline System is an oil pipeline system which transports crude oil and dilbit from Canada to the United States. The system exceeds in length including multiple paths. More than of the system is in the United States while the rest is in Canada and serves the Athabasca oil sands production facilities. Main parts of the system are Canadian Mainline and Lakehead System (U.S. Mainline). On average, it delivers of crude oil and other products to the major oil refineries in the American Midwest and the Canadian province of Ontario. The Canadian portion is owned by Enbridge, while the U.S. portion is partly owned by that company through Enbridge Energy Partners, LP, formerly known as Lakehead Pipe Line Partners and Lakehead Pipe Line Company.\n\nThe first portion of the pipeline was built over the course of 150 days in 1950 by a 1,500-man labor force. It crossed approximately from Redwater, Alberta, through Saskatchewan, Manitoba, North Dakota, and Minnesota, to the Great Lakes seaport of Superior, Wisconsin. At the same time, four oil tankers were constructed to carry the crude from Superior to oil refineries in Sarnia, Ontario. Oil first entered the pipe on August 25, 1950, and the first tanker, \"Imperial LeDuc\", was launched on November 4. Other tankers that followed were, \"Imperial Redwater\", \"Imperial Woodbend\", and \"B.A. Peerless\".\n\nBecause the lakes froze in the winter, preventing tanker traffic, the decision was soon made to expand the pipeline all the way to Sarnia. In May 1953, contracts were awarded and construction began. At , it became the world's longest pipeline. A major upgrade was undertaken in the 1990s to replace old pipe and expand the system.\n\nToday, there are two routes that oil can take between Superior and Sarnia. A northern route passes through the upper and lower peninsulas of Michigan before crossing into Ontario, while the southern route circles south of Lake Michigan through Illinois and Indiana before reaching Michigan. There are 59 pumping stations in the pipeline system, and the actual pipes range in diameter from .\n\nOne major junction point is in Clearbrook, Minnesota where the pipeline connects to the Minnesota Pipeline, which carries crude to the Pine Bend Refinery in Rosemount, Minnesota. The North Dakota Pipeline Company system of pipeline also has a connection in Clearbrook, linking the Mandan Refinery in Mandan, North Dakota. The Murphy Oil refinery in Superior, Wisconsin, is directly linked to the pipeline.\n\nAnother point in Lockport, Illinois connects two pipelines to Patoka, Illinois, plus a longer link to Cushing, Oklahoma. A relatively short link from Stockbridge, Michigan connects to two refineries in the Toledo, Ohio area.\n\nThe Mainline system, conventionally divided into the US and Canadian mainlines, consists of 1900 miles of pipeline that run from central Alberta to southern Ontario via the northern US. The system can carry up to 2.5 million barrels of oil per day. Lines 1 through 4 connect Edmonton to Superior, Wisconsin. From there, Line 5 runs through the Upper Peninsula of Michigan and across the straits of Mackinac to cross back into Canada at the St. Clair River. Line 6 runs south through Wisconsin and Illinois to the terminal in Griffith, Indiana, which serves BP Whiting and other Chicago-area clients, and then continues on through northwest Indiana and southern Michigan to rejoin Line 5 at Sarnia, Ontario.\n\nThe Mainline system comprises Lines 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 14, 61, 62, 64, and 67. Pipelines that connect to the system, but are not part of it, include Line 9 (Montreal to Sarnia), Line 17 (Stockbridge to Toledo), and Line 55 (Flanagan to Cushing).\n\nAs of 2013 there were expansion plans for the pipeline system which would, if permitted and fully built, provide the capacity to transport an amount of dilbit from the Athabasca oil sands into the United States and the Gulf Coast equal to that of the Keystone Pipeline.\n\nIn 1991, Enbridge's Line 3 pipeline spilled 1.7 million gallons of oil in Grand Rapids, MN. This was the largest inland spill of oil ever in U.S. history. Deliberations over construction of a new Line 3 pipeline have drawn resistance from climate justice organizers and Native communities in Minnesota.\n\nOn July 4th, 2002, 252,000 gallons of crude oil spilled into a marsh near Cohasset, Minnesota due to a rupture of Line 4 running from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and Superior, Wisconsin. Emergency responders enacted a controlled burn at 4:45pm the next day to prevent the oil from penetrating into any waterways. The cost of remediating the accident was reported around $5.6 million.\n\nOn November 28, 2007, a large fire erupted during pipeline repair work at the Clearbrook Junction. This fire, described by a spokesperson for the Minnesota Department of Public Safety as a \"big fire, not an explosion\", killed two workers and caused a $4 per barrel spike in oil prices the following day. The pipeline carries crude from Saskatchewan to the Chicago area.\n\nOn July 26, 2010, 840,000 gallons of dilbit crude oil leaked from the pipeline in Calhoun County, Michigan, spilling into Talmadge Creek that flows into the Kalamazoo River. Despite alarms at Edmonton headquarters it took eighteen hours and a report from a Michigan utilities employee before the pipeline company acted to halt the flow finally. Enbridge reached a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice and Environmental Protection Agency for a total of $177 million in response to the spill, along with an additional spill in Romeoville, Illinois later that year. This settlement included $110 million in spill prevention, $62 million in Clean Water Act violations, and $5.4 million in cleanup costs. In addition, the company was fined $3.7 million by the United States Department of Transportation due to 24 violations in pipeline safety regulation. By 2014, the cost of cleanup to the company totaled to $1.21 billion.\n\nIn 2018, a tugboat dropped its anchor on the pipeline near Michigan, denting the pipe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124527", "title": "Main Line of Public Works", "text": "Main Line of Public Works\n\nThe Main Line of Public Works was a package of legislation supporting a vision passed in 1826 — a collection of various long proposed canal and road projects that became a canal system (1824 proposals and studies) and later added railroads (amendments in 1828) designed to cross the breadth of Pennsylvania (mainly, southern) with the visionary goal of providing the best commercial means of transportation between Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. Built between 1826 and 1834 by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, it established the Pennsylvania Canal System, the Allegheny Portage Railroad, and the Pennsylvania Canal System administrated under a new Commission. \nLater amendments substituted a new technology, railroads in place of the canal that had been planned on the right-of-way of the substitute: the Philadelphia and Columbia Railroad (P&CRR), a new technology, for an envisioned canal link connecting the Delaware River (Philadelphia) to the Susquehanna River that would have proved too costly.\n\nTrans-Appalachian settlement had begun in earnest during the latter years of the French and Indian War (1754-1763, arguably a World War), and the British post-war Governments side agreements, primarily made with the Iroquois Confederacy caused the policy curbing expanded settlement in the colonial mid-west was one cause that created support for the American Revolution (a \"casus belli\", and not just along the American frontiers for those hoping to emigrate into the nearly empty Amerindian lands of the Ohio Country, for the American families were prone to have large families, and Eastern seaboard populations were blooming in the pre-industrialized predominantly Agricultural culture). \nAfter the 1779 Sullivan Expedition broke the power of the Five Nations of the Iroquois towards the end of the American Revolution, the Susquehanna Valley from above Pennsylvania's southern tier counties north into all of upstate New York, Mohawk River to Lake Erie, and the trans-Appalachian territories from the north banks of the Ohio River & all of its tributaries to the lower Great Lakes west as far as Minnesota & Wisconsin was thrown open to settlers. \nAs the war wound down, many a family group began to head west, having full knowledge of the existence of the French settlements scattered along the Mississippi up to Detroit — so scattered settlements sprang up from below the Wyoming Valley across the near west into the retreating western frontiers and the lands of the old Ohio Country. \nBy 1792, under the new American Constitution — this de facto land grab (homesteading) condition was endorsed, organized by treaty and territorial laws with the early acts of the United States Congress to mediate between the claims made by the various states, setting the western frontiers of New York, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Virginia, Tennessee, and Kentucky, plus establishing the Northwest Territory and the legal systems under which it would be administered.\nIn the early 1800s, turnpikes and other transportation infrastructure works funded mostly by private funds or local governments had connected the new farms along the moving frontier back to the cities with crude trails of the Amerindians systematically widened and worked over to become foot paths, bridle trails worthy of mule train and finally widened into wagon roads. The 1790s-1850s was the age of turnpikes and the American Canal age, with pioneering projects like the Lausanne-Nescopeck Turnpike joining Philadelphia & the communities of the Delaware Valley through the Lehigh Gap to the Susquehanna, thence along the Susquehanna & Tioga Turnpike to Elmira, NY and ultimately, the new port of Buffalo, NY on Lake Erie.\nA half-decade after that long way went online, the trouble with England exacerbated an already difficult energy crisis, and bituminous coal imports from Liverpool, England in 1812 ground to a halt under an embargo. Industrialists in Philadelphia pressed for some solution to their foundries fuel needs and by years end in 1812, legislation was on the books for improving the Schuylkill River into the Schuylkill Canal which ended up sadly underfunded, so got opened\" 'years late to the party' \"when, first in 1820 two of its disgruntled directors put the Lehigh Canal into operation in just under two years in late 1820, and the much heralded and derided 'Clinton's Folly', the Erie Canal, opened the first sections in 1821. Lead by the successes, by mid-decade canal projects and some railroads (using that very risky and untried tech) were being proposed, organized, chartered, or built throughout the entire northeast seaboard states — and no where more so than in Pennsylvania as influenced by neighboring New Jersey, Delaware and Baltimore.\n\nBy the 1810s, population west of the mountains was effectively exploding with new cities seeming to rise every couple of years anchored by 1800s transport hubs (gateway cities) like Brownsville, Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Detroit, New Orleans, and later by the 1840s, St.Louis, Chicago, and St. Joseph Missouri. The market potential of this burgeoning population was the target of Philadelphia and New Jersey's business class.\n\nIn 1823 entrepreneur White made a proposal which would have dammed and created a Ship Navigation allowing deep keeled coastal shipping to reach docks and pickup and tran-ship the coal steadily coming down the Lehigh Canal into Easton, Pennsylvania; the first 60 miles of which down to the Philadelphia suburb town of Bristol would later become the Delaware Canal. An employee of industrialist Josiah White's had figured out how to get \"Rock Coal\" to burn properly during the War of 1812 renewing serious interest in exploiting these relatively coal resources. Efforts to improve shipping capabilities on the Schuylkill Navigation was lagging hope when backers took to quarreling over the best way to proceed; disgusted, White distanced himself from the project. White went looking for a source of coal in 1815 looked at the mines of the failing and unreliable Lehigh Coal Mine Company—who'd almost managed to drop more coal in the Lehigh than they'd delivered to market since their founding in 1792. After surveying and deciding improving Navigation on the Lehigh could be feasible, returned to lease the operations of that company. Two years later he'd obtained the legal permissions \"to ruin himself\" fixing up the Lehigh, so founding the Lehigh Navigation Company and using a quasi-lock of his own design between 1818 & 1820, the works had made sufficient improvements to be able to deliver 365 tons of coal to Easton late in the year—by 1825 the annual tonnage had climbed to over per annum, and the two overachievers had firmly established anthracite as a reliable inexpensive fuel. \nA couple years later, the legislature declined another offer by the Lehigh Coal and Navigation Company (LC&N) which had built the Lehigh Canal with private funds. LC&N was unquestionably one of the most innovative companies of the era, driving the mining, transportation and industrial development of Pennsylvania by example, implementation, and by funding quite a few projects, as well. This new proposal was to build—\"at the companies expense\"— the project that would (in concept) become their version of the eventual Delaware Canal (alternatively the 'Delaware Division of the Pennsylvania Canal') built by the states engineering managers a few years later. The route was nearly the same, but the Delaware Canal as the state built it had numerous engineering flaws, including locks both too short and unpaired (single & supporting only one way traffic) locks LC&N's experience and expertise would have mitigated. LC&N had started coal flowing to Philadelphia using short squared-off blocky barges it called coal arks, but in 1822-23 was already re-doing the upper four locks on the Lehigh Canal to support a steam powered tug pulling boats over built to support two way traffic with full locks. By 1825 the volume of coal coming down the Lehigh & Delaware to Philadelphia was becoming huge and problematic — LC&N was rapidly over logging the forests feeding the Lehigh to build boats for the one way trip. The extra expenses of the lack of a tow path canal for the sixty miles Easton-Philadelphia was very costly to LC&N, and the state's Delaware Canal attempt when opened in 1832 was five years later than promised and didn't work; the State had to hire Josiah White to repair its major deficiencies, then needed LC&N's expertise to operate it. LC&N ended up running both canals into the 1930s, and retained the rights to the Lehigh until the 1960s. While some problems were fixable, the Delaware Canal's lock's design was always an costly economic problem until the Canal became the parkland and current haven for pleasure boats.\nWhite and Hazard made the offer in return for a break on tolls, and even included an offer to operate the system at cost—the state garnering all the tolls. This offer too was declined, and in 1827 in a separate amending act, the state authorized the Delaware Canal, which was delayed for a few more years costing LC&N many dollars, until it was finally dug alongside, and generally in sight of the Delaware River between Easton down river to Bristol. When completed in 1832 by the state it also didn't work—having leaking issues and water supply problems like those that plagued the Union Canal and Schuylkill Navigation, and the state needed to hire Josiah White to fix it before it became fully usable in 1834. Lehigh Coal & Navigation Company would operate the Canal into the 1930s, and controlled its resources and those rights attained on the Lehigh until the 1960s when they reverted or conveyed back to the state.\n\nHence the Canal system was envisioned and built at the urging of New Jersey and Pennsylvanian businessmen, especially Philadelphia's bearing witness to the navigations improving commerce on the Lehigh and Schuylkill Rivers, though in 1824 both systems needed further development. But the same decision makers were also continually reading the copious press coverage about the progress, the works designs, and engineering feats accomplished or building as the Erie Canal progressed. Philadelphia's luminaries were vying with other coastal cities to become the United States' most important and influential port as the country's population expanded westward to the Ohio Country and Northwest Territory regions. The system would also not only open better access to the newly opened Southeastern Coal Region and the initial mines in the Panther Creek Valley but authorized an extension of the Lehigh Canal up to White Haven, and a railroad connecting that upper canal with the coal sources in the Wyoming Valley. All the eastern projects were to reliably provide clean-burning anthracite coal to eastern cities that had already consumed much of the eastern forests for heating fuel.\n\nThe rail portions of the system were authorized in 1828 by an act of the Pennsylvania General Assembly entitled \"An act relative to the Pennsylvania Canal, and to provide for the commencement of a Railroad to be constructed at the expense of the state and to be styled \"The Pennsylvania Railroad\"\" .\n\nBegun with Navigations construction along the Susquehanna and the West Fork of the Susquehanna with surveys for the best route over the barrier of the northern Allegheny Mountains, the system in time ran from Philadelphia on the Delaware estuary westwards across the great plain of southern Pennsylvania (goal of connecting the Susquehanna to New York City via canals) through Harrisburg and across the state to Pittsburgh and connected with other divisions of the Pennsylvania Canal. It consisted of the following principal sections, moving from east to west:\n\n\nThe canals reduced travel time between Philadelphia and Pittsburgh from at least 23 days to just four.\n\nThe Main Line of Public Works was completed in 1834 and was sold to the Pennsylvania Railroad on June 25, 1857, for $7,500,000. Within a year, the PRR replaced the Philadelphia-Pittsburgh route with an entirely rail-based system.\n\nThe Philadelphia and Columbia Railroad began in Philadelphia at Broad and Vine Streets, ran north on Broad and west on Pennsylvania Avenue (a segment later taken over and submerged/tunneled over by the Reading Railroad), then headed northwest across the Columbia Bridge over the Schuylkill River. Just after crossing the river, it traveled up the Belmont Plane, an inclined plane in the current location of West Fairmount Park, and continued west across the eastern part of the state to Columbia, where the Columbia Plane headed down to the Susquehanna River. At that point, the eastern division of the canal continued north along the river and then west.\n\nThe Northern Liberties and Penn Township Railroad was incorporated in 1829 to build a branch continuing east on Noble Street and Willow Street to the Delaware River. This opened in 1834.\n\nThe Belmont Plane ran from the Schuylkill River for , rising per for a total rise of . Steam-driven cables dragged the railway cars to the top of Belmont Hill.\n\nThe Plane was the site of a signal event in railroad history. On July 10, 1836, the Philadelphia-based Norris Locomotive Works drove a 4-2-0 locomotive up the Incline, making it the first steam locomotive to climb an ascending grade while pulling a load. The engine, named \"George Washington\", hauled a load of , including 24 people riding on the tender and one freight car, up the grade at per hour. So remarkable was this accomplishment that reports in engineering journals doubted its occurrence. Nine days later, the engine repeated the feat in a more formal trial with an even greater load.\n\nIn 1850, the state bought the West Philadelphia Railroad, which had been incorporated in 1835 to bypass the Belmont Plane and failed after completing only the section from 52nd Street west to the main line at Rosemont. The state built the rest from 52nd Street east to downtown, but on a different alignment than the one originally planned; the new line, put into operation October 15, 1850, ended at the west end of the Market Street Bridge, from which the City Railroad continued east. The old line, which ran from the Schuylkill River up the Belmont Plane to Ardmore along the route of present-day Montgomery Avenue in Lower Merion Township, was abandoned.\n\nThe Columbia Bridge and line east to Broad and Vine Streets were sold to the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad as part of its main line. The Reading acquired the Northern Liberties and Penn Township Railroad in 1870, giving it access to the Delaware River.\n\nThe section of the old Pennsylvania Railroad running from Philadelphia west through Chester County and, by extension, the western suburbs of Philadelphia, is still known as the Main Line.\n\nThe Columbia Plane, which lowered railway cars down to the Eastern Division Canal along the Susquehanna River, was bypassed in 1840 by a new track alignment.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Canal's Eastern Division, which opened in 1833, ran along the east side of the Susquehanna River between Columbia and Duncan's Island at the mouth of the Juniata River. The canal included 14 locks with an average lift of . The state originally planned a canal of running between the Union Canal at Middletown to the Juniata. However, the plan changed in 1828, when the state opted to extend the Eastern Division further south to connect with the newly decided replacement of a canal by the Philadelphia and Columbia Railroad at historic Wright's Ferry.\n\nEngineers faced complications at the northern end of the Eastern Division Canal, where it met the Juniata Division Canal and the Susquehanna Division Canal at Duncan's Island. Boats had to cross from one side of the Susquehanna River to the other between either the Susquehanna Division or the Juniata Division on the west side and the Eastern Division on the east side. They solved the problem by building a dam long and high between the lower end of Duncan's Island and the east bank of the Susquehanna. This formed a pool across which boats could be pulled from a wooden, two-tier towpath bridge at Clark's Ferry. Two Duncan's Island lift locks raised or lowered the boats traveling between the dam pool and the other canals.\n\nThe Juniata Division Canal was approved in segments starting in 1827 with a canal from near Duncan's Island in the Susquehanna River to Lewistown, upstream. Subsequently, the state agreed to extend the canal to Hollidaysburg and the eastern end of the Allegheny Portage Railroad, from the Susquehanna. A total of 86 locks were required to overcome a change in elevation of over the full length of the canal, which opened in 1832.\n\nFrom the canal basin, westbound boats began their journey by being elevated about by a lock that brought them to the level of a wooden aqueduct on which they were towed to the south side of the Juniata. At North's Island, from the Susquehanna, they were towed by a water powered continuous rope to the north side of the river across a slack water pool formed by a dam. From North's Island to Huntingdon, the river was dammed in three more places to feed water to the canal, and above Huntingdon, 14 more dams were needed to create of slack water navigation in the river to supplement of travel in segments of canal. In addition, the state built three reservoirs on Juniata tributaries to keep the upper parts of the canal filled with water.\n\nA canal section of has been restored near Locust Campground, west of Lewistown. At the western end of the canal, the Hollidaysburg Canal Basin Park has preserved two canal basins and a connecting lock; a museum at the park illustrates how canal boats transferred between the canal and the Allegheny Portage Railroad.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Main Line Canal, Juniata Division, Canal Section was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2002.\n\n From 1834 until 1854, when the Pennsylvania Railroad Company finished a competing line, the Allegheny Portage Railroad made continuous boat traffic possible over the Allegheny Mountains between the Juniata and Western Division Canals. It followed a route that included 11 levels, 10 inclined planes fitted with stationary engines that could raise and lower boats and cargo, a , viaduct over the Little Conemaugh River, and many bridges. Infrastructure included 153 drains and culverts. The railroad climbed from the eastern canal basin at Hollidaysburg and from the western basin at Johnstown. At its summit, the railroad reached an elevation of above sea level.\n\nIn 1826, the state legislature authorized the first segment of the Western Division Canal, from Pittsburgh up the Allegheny River to its confluence with the Kiskiminetas River at Freeport. Pittsburgh residents favored a route that would follow the south bank of the Allegheny River and terminate in Pittsburgh, while residents of the borough of Allegheny favored a north bank canal ending in the borough, across the river from Pittsburgh. Eventually, the canal was run along the physically more favorable north bank, but the state agreed to build the main terminal and turning basin in Pittsburgh and a secondary terminal and connecting canal, the Allegheny Outlet, in the borough. Getting the main canal across the Allegheny River into Pittsburgh required an aqueduct of , the longest on the Pennsylvania Main Line route. Linking to the Ohio River at Pittsburgh, the Western Division Canal also linked, through a tunnel of under Grant's Hill in Pittsburgh, with the Monongahela River.\n\nSubsequent Western Division Canal extensions went from Freeport up the Kiskiminetas and Conemaugh Rivers to Blairsville and then to the western end of the Allegheny Portage Railroad at Johnstown. East of Tunnelton, the route went through a canal tunnel of built to avoid a long loop of the Conemaugh River. The first fully loaded freight boat traveled from Johnstown to Pittsburgh in 1831; the route through Grant's Hill opened in 1832. Over its length of , the canal employed 68 locks, 16 river dams, and 16 aqueducts. From Freeport, a separate extension, the Kittanning Feeder, ran up the Allegheny River to Kittanning.\n\nThe 1889 Johnstown Flood was caused by the failure of the South Fork Dam, part of the Main Line of Public Works. The dam across the Little Conemaugh River in the hills above Johnstown, Pennsylvania, created a two-square-mile (5.2 km) reservoir. Dubbed Lake Conemaugh, it supplied water to the Western Division Canal. When canal traffic declined, the lake and dam were abandoned, then sold to the Pennsylvania Railroad in 1857; the railroad in turn sold them to private interests. They were purchased by the South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club in 1879, and a private resort was built surrounding the lake. On May 31, 1889, following heavy rains, the South Fork Dam failed, sending 20 million tons (18.2 million cubic meters) of water down the gorge toward Johnstown. More than 2,200 people were killed.\n\nThe Tunnelview Historical Site shows where in 1830 a canal tunnel of was built through Bow Ridge to avoid a long bend on the Conemaugh River, west of Blairsville. Saltsburg Canal Park, where Loyalhanna Creek joins the Conemaugh River to form the Kiskiminetas River, recognizes the canal's economic contribution to Saltsburg.\n\n\nFor more on the Philadelphia and Columbia Railroad, see William Hasell Wilson, \"The Columbia-Philadelphia Railroad and Its Successor\" (1896). A reprint of this booklet was issued in 1985. See also John C. Trautwine, Jr., \"The Philadelphia and Columbia Railroad of 1834\", in \"Philadelphia History\", Vol. 2, No. 7 (Philadelphia, PA: City History Soc. of Philadelphia, 1925). This is a pamphlet written for The City History Society of Philadelphia and read at the meeting of March 15, 1921.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124538", "title": "Betrayal in Antara", "text": "Betrayal in Antara\n\nBetrayal in Antara is a Windows 3.1 role-playing video game developed and published by Sierra On-Line in 1997, after the success of their previous RPG, \"Betrayal at Krondor\". Sierra had lost the rights to produce another game based on Raymond Feist's \"The Riftwar Cycle\", and therefore had to create the game world of Ramar. Although it is not a sequel, \"Betrayal in Antara\" uses an updated version of \"Betrayal at Krondor\"'s game engine.\n\nA ship, the \"Fair Current\", is sailing from Januli to Pianda when it is attacked by pirates. With the ship on fire, the crew and its two passengers abandon ship. William Escobar finds himself in the same lifeboat as the other passenger, a joyman named Gregor. They make it to shore but are attacked by a magical griffin. Gregor is mortally wounded. While fishing, Aren Cordelaine sees William fighting off the griffin and, trying to help, unintentionally kills the creature with a blast of magic. Before he dies, Gregor gives William a medallion and warns him that the Imperial Consort is in danger. William asks Aren to accompany him home so Aren can learn how to control his powers from the Escobars' court mage Finch. Aren agrees and the two of them set out for Panizo. In the forest near town, they save a woman, Kaelyn Usher, from bandits. She decides to join them. When they reach Panizo, William informs his father of Aren's help as well as Gregor's message. Learning that Prince Farril will be traveling to Antara for his wedding to Princess Aurora, William wants to go to Ticoro and warn him.\n\nWilliam, Aren, and Kaelyn sneak out of Panizo early the next morning and head to Midova, where Aren starts his magical training with Finch. They arrive in Ticoro in the middle of the spring festival and learn that Prince Farril is in the city, though his location is a secret. William, Aren, and Kaelyn meet Kaelyn's friends, Raal and Fellich Marr, head of the church of Henne. They discover where Prince Farril is staying and attempt to warn him, but Lord Caverton and the guards ignore them. They return to their inn, but are awoken in the middle of the night by Caverton's guards, who inform them that Farril has been kidnapped. Having known about it beforehand, William, Aren, and Kaelyn are arrested as the primary suspects.\n\nRaal springs William, Aren, and Kaelyn from prison and informs Kaelyn that wraiths are attacking people in the Ridgewood and her father Garvin has disappeared. Kaelyn leaves with Raal to find her father, promising to meet up with William and Aren when she is done. William and Aren suspect the Shepherds of kidnapping Prince Farril and follow their trail through Ticor and Chuno, eventually learning about their secret headquarters.\n\nKaelyn and Raal head to Kaelyn's home in the Ridgewood. Following a note from her father, they discover Garvin's magical workshop in a cave. Garvin informs his daughter that the wraiths in the forest are possessing humans and creatures and driving them mad. With Garvin's help, Kaelyn and Raal find and destroy all the wraiths.\n\nWilliam and Aren find Gar Warren, leader of the Shepherds. Warren says that Farril was taken by a traitorous Shepherd magician. Imperial soldiers storm the caverns and Warren escapes. William and Aren follow, but lose him in the tunnels. They discover that Farril has been taken by a band of Chinese mercenaries. Posing as new recruits, they are taken to the cabin where he is held, kept in a magical sleep. After Aren dispels the enchantment, the three of them escape and meet up with Kaelyn and Raal. Raal returns home while William, Aren, Kaelyn, and Farril continue on to Antara.\n\nDuring the presentation of Prince Farril to the Emperor, a wraith appears out of Farril's body and attacks the Emperor. The Shadows, the Emperor's magicians, fight it off but the creature takes the souls of Farril and Princess Aurora and escapes from the palace. Farril and Aurora are placed in stasis. The Emperor asks William, Aren, and Kaelyn to save Farril and Aurora. Realizing that the attack on the Fair Current was meant for Gregor, they head to Januli to unravel the mystery behind Gregor's death and the assassination attempt on the Emperor.\n\nTracking down the Fair Current's crew as well as Gregor's mistress, William, Aren, and Kaelyn learn that Gregor spent much of his time in Havesly, the capital of Januli. In Havesly they discover that Gregor was a spy for Lord Caverton, whose entry into the salt trade was driving House Sheffield to the brink of bankruptcy. Desperate to save her family from financial ruin, Selana Sheffield employed pirates, allowing them harbor in Januli by forging her father's signature. Selana planned to kidnap Prince Farril and hold him for ransom, joining the Shepherds to carry it out. Gregor discovered her plans so she arranged to have him killed. William, Aren, and Kaelyn arrive at the Sheffields' castle to find it under attack by pirates. They find Lord Sheffield and Selana, pursued by an assassin named Petrov who is killed by Lord Sheffield. They learn that Petrov was sent by someone named Silver Hawk to cover their tracks by killing Selana and court mage Calvert Bryce. Questioning Selana, William learns that while she was responsible for the pirate attack, she knows nothing about the griffin. Several months earlier, a griffin had been sighted in Januli and Bryce had reportedly disposed of it. Realizing that Bryce sent the griffin to attack Gregor and the wraith to kill the Emperor, William, Aren, and Kaelyn enter the salt mines behind the castle and follow them to Bryce's workshop.\n\nBryce tells them that he tried to kill the Emperor out of revenge because the Shadows had humiliated him when they forbade his ethereal travel research. He continued anyway, but by traveling to the ethereal world to capture a wraith, Bryce allowed a few to escape into Ramar, where they appeared in the Ridgewood. Selana's plan to kidnap the Consort happened to provide a vessel for the wraith to strike at the Emperor. Before they can learn how to get Farril and Aurora's souls back, Bryce commits suicide. Using Bryce's notes, Aren summons the wraith. The wraith refuses to return the souls so Lord Sheffield and Selana, feeling responsible for the turmoil that has occurred, volunteer to give up their souls instead. The wraith takes the deal in exchange for the promise that humans will never disturb the wraiths again.\n\nTwo months later, William, Aren, and Kaelyn reunite in Ticoro for Farril and Aurora's wedding. William has been busy working for his father, Aren has become Finch's apprentice, and Kaelyn has been appointed ambassador to the Grrrlf in Antara. During the ceremony, William and Aren notice the silver hawk on Fellich Marr's staff. William realizes that Marr was Silver Hawk, but due to his political influence and lack of evidence, they are powerless to do anything. With those directly involved (Bryce, Selana, Petrov) in his conspiracy dead, Fellich Marr has little fear of being connected to the attempted murder.\n\nIn 1994 Dynamix canceled sequel plans and sold the \"Riftwar\" rights back to Raymond Feist due to poor floppy disc sales of \"Betrayal at Krondor\", but after the game's re-release on CD-ROM sold exceptionally well, the company wanted to do a sequel. It thus attempted to create a game which evoked a very similar feel to \"Betrayal at Krondor\" without using the same game world. To create the backgrounds, the development team took photos of different landscapes, then touched them up with 3D tools to make them appear like paintings.\n\n7th Level announced their fully licensed sequel to \"Betrayal at Krondor\", \"Return to Krondor\", just a few weeks after \"Betrayal in Antara\" was announced.\n\nBetween January 1998 and July 1998 alone, \"Betrayal in Antara\" sold 52,309 copies and earned $674,058 in the United States.\n\n\"Next Generation\" rating the game three stars out of five, and stated that \"\"Krondor\" was an excellent game, and \"Antara\" succeeds it in the fashion of \"Doom II\". Not too much has been added, but a great game like \"Krondor\" doesn't need too many new features.\"\n\n\"GameSpot\" gave \"Betrayal in Antara\" a score of 6.6/10, commenting that despite being \"one of the first RPGs to utilize high-resolution SVGA graphics, the graphics are, frankly, as ugly as an orc.\" Although they said the story is well-developed, they judged the game \"perhaps one of the most linear RPGs ever made\" with the gameplay \"more than a little frustrating.\" However, they praised the interface and skill systems as being \"topnotch.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2124550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124550", "title": "Largo (nightclub)", "text": "Largo (nightclub)\n\nLargo, also called Café Largo Largo, darling!\nor Club Largo, is a nightclub and cabaret in Los Angeles, California known for its musical and comedic performers and for the Friday night \"residency\" of singer-songwriter Jon Brion.\n\nCafe Largo was founded by Jean-Pierre Boccara, a nightclub entrepreneur, in 1989. Cafe Largo featured music (including performances by Peter Himmelman, Colin Hay, Victoria Williams, Suzanne Vega, Syd Straw, The Love Jones, Julie Christensen, Hugo Largo, Grant Lee Buffalo), cabaret (including performances by Philip Littell, Stephanie Vlahos, Lypsinka, Barry Yourgrau), vaudeville (Les Stevens), comedy (Nora Dunn, Beth Lapides) and spoken word (Tommy Cody, Eve Brandstein, Michael Lally).\n\nThe LA Weekly named Cafe Largo \"LA's Best Supper Club\" in 1990. \"The New York Times\" ran a substantive review \" A Place for Poetry in Land of Pictures\" on July 12, 1989.\nThe 1989 Reader review was titled \"Cafe Largo mixes food and music-memorably\".\nMore positive reviews were published in Newsweek, LA Style, LA Times, Los Angeles, Buzz, Exposure, Movieline, The Edge, Details, Village View, Vogue, Interview, Playboy, and US Magazine.\nIn March 1992 Boccara sold the place to Mark Flanagan and his wife Aimee Cain (international model and of Star Search fame) who shortened the name to Largo, and his name to simply \"Flanagan.\" Boccara went on to open LunaPark on Robertson Blvd in West Hollywood and operated it from Halloween '93 to Halloween 2000.\n\nFlanagan began operating Largo in April 1992. (In the 1960s, the Largo, owned by Chuck Landis, was a strip club on Sunset Blvd.) In 1996, Flanagan re-established Largo as an intimate cabaret with live music mainly in the piano bar tradition. Largo's original location on Fairfax Avenue had 100 seats with a maximum full capacity of 130, and regularly sold out, with frequent sightings of celebrity musicians and actors in the audience. The club had a strict no talking or cellphone use policy during performances, but surprisingly allowed audience members to live blog on their laptops.\n\nFlanagan persuaded Jon Brion to take a regular Friday-night residence at Largo. Brion's extensive friendships brought other talented singer-songwriters to perform at the club, notably including Aimee Mann, Michael Penn, Fiona Apple (who included a song expressing her love for the club, \"Largo,\" on her fourth album), and Elliott Smith. Over the years, the list of semi-regular performers at the club has included Neil Finn, E of the Eels, Robyn Hitchcock, John Doe, Ben Folds, Grant-Lee Phillips, Rickie Lee Jones, Rufus Wainwright, Gary Dell'Abate, Jakob Dylan, Teddy Thompson, t.A.T.u., Brad Mehldau, and Colin Hay.\n\nThe typical Largo show involves a mix of music and stand-up comedy. Mann and Penn developed a road show called Acoustic Vaudeville on the Largo format, which they have taken to Chicago and New York. Seinfeld co-creator Larry David is seen performing stand-up comedy at Largo in his 1999 HBO special \"Larry David: Curb Your Enthusiasm\". Brion names the genre celebrated by Largo as \"unpopular pop\", and underlines the emphasis on lyrics with \"We're all song sluts here.\" Many of the Largo regulars have had infamous histories of albums their labels won't release. Though generally tied together by this common esthetic, performers come from many traditions including country, rock, and cabaret.\n\nBrad Mehldau released a jazz album produced by Jon Brion entitled \"Largo\". Toad the Wet Sprocket singer/songwriter Glen Phillips performs regularly and has recorded a live album \"Live at Largo\" at the club. Andy Prieboy developed his musical White Trash Wins Lotto at the club. Condoleezza Rice rehearsed her famous duet with Yo-Yo Ma at Largo in 2001. The band Tenacious D largely got their start at Largo, which in turn launched the career of actor/comedian Jack Black. Dan Finnerty started The Dan Band at Largo, doing monthly shows there before his stints in Old School and Starsky & Hutch. The band Wild Colonials largely got their start at Largo with a successful Tuesday night residency that lasted nine months during 1992/1993. In 1993 at the height of the Los Angeles spoken word scene of that decade, Largo hosted several events featuring L.A. writers Viggo Mortensen, Scott Wannberg, Ellyn Maybe, S.A. Griffin, Tequila Mockingbird and Linda Ravenswood. A five track CD of Elliott Smith playing solo at Largo was released in October 2007, accompanying Autumn de Wilde's book, \"Elliott Smith\".\n\nIn 2012, comedian Tig Notaro performed a legendary set after just being diagnosed with cancer. She did not intend to release the audio at first, but later the album \"Live\" was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Comedy Album at the 56th Annual Grammy Awards.\n\nSarah Silverman taped her 2013 HBO stand-up special, \"\" at the Largo before an audience of 39.\n\nOn June 2, 2008, Flanagan closed the club and moved to the Coronet Theatre on La Cienega Boulevard, renaming it Largo at the Coronet. Jon Brion continues his residency on a monthly basis, performing on Friday usually near the end of each month. He has also begun to incorporate video samples of musicians into his musical performances.\n\nhttp://articles.latimes.com/1986-03-10/news/mn-2927_1_chuck-landis\n\n"}
{"id": "2124555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124555", "title": "Reversible inhibition of sperm under guidance", "text": "Reversible inhibition of sperm under guidance\n\nReversible inhibition of sperm under guidance (RISUG), formerly referred to as the synthetic polymer styrene maleic anhydride (SMA), is the development name of a male contraceptive injection developed at IIT Kharagpur in India by the team of Dr. Sujoy K. Guha. Phase III clinical trials are underway in India, slowed by insufficient volunteers. It has been patented in India, China, Bangladesh, and the United States. A method based on RISUG, Vasalgel, is currently under development in the US. However there has been little or no progress in terms of bringing the product to market.\n\nRISUG works by an injection into the vas deferens, the vessel through which the sperm moves before ejaculation. RISUG is similar to vasectomy in that a local anesthetic is administered, an incision is made in the scrotum, and the vasa deferentia are injected with a polymer gel (rather than being cut and cauterized). In a matter of minutes, the injection coats the walls of the vasa with a clear gel made of 60 mg of the copolymer styrene/maleic anhydride (SMA) with 120 µl of the solvent dimethyl sulfoxide. The copolymer is made by irradiation of the two monomers with a dose of 0.2 to 0.24 megarad for every 40 g of copolymer and a dose rate of 30 to 40 rad/s. Dr P.Jha a Senior scientist worked on Effect of gamma dose rate and total dose interrelation on molecular designing and biological function of polymer The source of irradiation is cobalt-60 gamma radiation.\n\nThe effect the chemical has on sperm is not completely understood. Originally it was thought that it lowered the pH of the environment enough to kill the sperm. More recent research claims that this is not enough to explain the effect.\n\nProfessor S. K. Guha theorizes that the polymer surface has a negative and positive electric charge mosaic. Within an hour after placement the differential charge from the gel will rupture the sperm's cell membrane as it passes through the vas, deactivating it before it can exit from the body.\n\nSujoy K. Guha developed RISUG after years of developing other inventions. He originally wanted to create an artificial heart that could pump blood using a strong electrical pulse. Using the 13-chamber model of a cockroach heart, he designed a softer pumping mechanism that would theoretically be safe to use in humans. As India's population grew throughout the 1970s, Guha modified his heart pump design to create a water pump that could work off of differences in ionic charges between salt water and fresh water in water treatment facilities. This filtration system did not require electricity and could potentially help large groups of people have access to clean water. India however decided that the population problem would be better served by developing more effective contraception. So Guha again modified his design to work safely inside the body, specifically inside the male genitalia. The non-toxic polymer of RISUG also uses differences in the charges of the semen to rupture the sperm as it flows through the vas deferens.\n\nIntellectual property rights to RISUG in the United States were acquired between 2010–2012 by the Parsemus Foundation, a not-for-profit organization, which has branded it as Vasalgel. Vasalgel, which has a slightly different formulation than RISUG, is currently undergoing successful animal trials in the United States. Initially, it was hoped that human trials would commence by the end of 2013 and become available to within a few years, but the Parsemus Foundation has encountered delays, and human clinical trials have yet to be initiated.\n\nSome of the advantages, according to Dr. Guha, are:\n\nThe thoroughness of carcinogenicity, teratogenicity, and toxicity testing in clinical trials has been questioned. In October 2002, India's Ministry of Health aborted the clinical trials due to reports of albumin in urine and scrotal swelling in Phase III trial participants. Although the ICMR has reviewed and approved the toxicology data three times, WHO and Indian researchers say that the studies were not done according to recent international standards. Due to the lack of any evidence for adverse effects, trials were restarted in 2011.\n\nSmart RISUG is a newer version of the male contraception that was published in 2009. This polymer adds iron oxide and copper particles to the original compound, giving it magnetic properties and the name \"Smart\" RISUG. After injection the exact location of the polymer inside the vas deferens can be measured and visualized by X-ray and magnetic imaging. The polymer location can also be externally controlled using a pulsed magnetic field. With this magnetic field, the polymer can change location inside the body to maximize sterility or can be removed to restore fertility. The polymer has magnetoelastic behavior that allows it to stretch and elongate to better line the vas deferens. The iron oxide component is necessary to prevent agglomeration. With the original RISUG polymer, the SMA can possibly clump as a reaction to neighboring proteins. With the presence of iron particles, the polymer has lower protein binding and therefore prevents agglomeration. This makes Smart RISUG safer for the user as it will not accidentally block the vas deferens. The copper particles in the compound allow the polymer to conduct heat. When an external microwave applies heat to the polymer, it can liquify the polymer again to be excreted to restore fertility. Smart RISUG is therefore a better choice for men who want to use RISUG as temporary birth control, since it does not require a second surgery to restore fertility. The addition of metal ions also increases the effectiveness of the spermicide. The low frequency electromagnetic field disintegrates the sperm cell membrane in the head region. This in turn causes both acrosin and hyaluronidase enzymes to leak out of the sperm, making the sperm infertile. The safety of Smart RISUG is still being investigated. With literature research, the spermicidal properties of the compound should not have negative effects on the lining of the vas deferens. The albino rats used to develop the new polymer have not had any adverse symptoms.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124582", "title": "Geoffrey Wickham", "text": "Geoffrey Wickham\n\nGeoffrey Gordon Wickham AO MIIE was one of the pioneers of cardiac pacemaking, born at Camperdown, Victoria, Australia to dairy farmer parents on 28 October 1933.In 1963 he co-founded the medical instruments company Telectronics Pty Ltd in Sydney, and served as the company's Chief Engineer from 1963 to 1970 and Technical Director from 1963 to 1978. He was elected an Honorary Life Governor of Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney in 1982, and was appointed Officer Of The Order Of Australia in June 2000 \"for service to the design of medical equipment, particularly in the development of the implantable cardiac pacemaker\".<br>\nHis accomplishments are remarkable in that he had no formal engineering training, finishing High School at year 8 to commence work as a radio and electrical repairman. At age 21 he passed the year 12 examinations by night study at the Adelaide School of Mines, while working as a technician at the Department of Supply Long Range Weapons Establishment in South Australia, and being appointed the same year on merit as an electrical engineer at graduate level by the Netherlands Philips company subsidiary T.C.A. Pty.Ltd.<br> In 1958-9 he studied application of the new technology of the transistor at Philips establishments in the Netherlands and England; being relocated after that to Philips' Sydney headquarters.<br>In 1964, after being co-founder of Telectronics Pty. Ltd. in 1963, the company was invited to participate in artificial cardiac pacemaker research in which co-founder and initial financier Noel Gray and he as head of research and development made significant contributions. His involvement as a director of Telectronics ceased in about 1982 when control of the company was gained by Nucleus Limited.<br> Subsequently, while continuing involvement in bio-engineering particularly in paediatrics, he studied aerodynamics and structural engineering, which led to construction of a fuel efficient light aircraft which was awarded the SAAA prize of the \"Henry Millicer Best Australian Technical Innovation and Design\" in 1998.\n\nHe was the recipient of the Institute of Engineers, Engineers Australia, 2007 David Dewhurst Medal \"In recognition of his outstanding contribution to the profession of Biomedical Engineering\".\n\nAt age 77, he was the lead co-researcher of a team at Sydney's The Children's Hospital at Westmead developing and clinically trialling a new form of therapy for a childhood condition, funded by a A$330,000 Grant by the National Health and Medical Research Council.\n\nHe is the father of four children and has nine grandchildren (at January 2011)\n"}
{"id": "2124589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124589", "title": "Community Unit School District 300", "text": "Community Unit School District 300\n\nCommunity Unit School District 300 is a school district headquartered in Algonquin, Illinois, United States, a suburb of Chicago. The current superintendent of Schools is Fred Heid.\n\nThe district is the 6th largest school district in the State located in a northern Kane County and portions of southeastern McHenry County, Illinois. The district includes Algonquin, Carpentersville, East Dundee, West Dundee, Sleepy Hollow, Gilberts, Pingree Grove, Hampshire, Lake in the Hills and Cary, Illinois, United States.\n\nIn January 2015, District 300 opened a new administration building in Algonquin next to Jacobs High School replacing the former administration building in Carpentersville.\n\n\nCambridge Lakes Learning Center (Pingree Grove)\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124591", "title": "Abdelbaki Sahraoui", "text": "Abdelbaki Sahraoui\n\nAbdelbaki Sahraoui () was a co-founder of the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS) in Algeria.\n\nHe was born in 1910 in Constantine, Algeria. In 1926, he joined the circle of Sheikh Mubarak el-Mili. Five years later, he was conscripted by the French army, where he spent two years. He then moved to Algiers, where he was involved with the Muslim Scholars' Society. In 1990, he helped found the FIS; after the Algerian Civil War began, he fled to Paris, from which he preached in favor of armed struggle—jihad—against the Algerian government. However, he opposed the extension of the \"jihad\" to France, and was assassinated because of this in Paris, on 11 July 1995, by the Armed Islamic Group. His death was followed by a series of bombings in France.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124602", "title": "1939 South American Championship", "text": "1939 South American Championship\n\nThe fifteenth edition of the South American Championship was held in Lima, Peru from January 15 to February 12.\n\nThe participating countries were Chile, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. Although CONMEBOL member since 1927, this tournament was the first time the Ecuadorian side participated. Colombia –member since 1936– withdrew again from the tournament, as well as Argentina, Bolivia and Brazil. Peru won for the first time.\n\nEach team played against each of the other teams. Two (2) points were awarded for a win, one (1) point for a draw and zero (0) points for a defeat.\n\n7 goals\n\n5 goals\n\n\n3 goals\n\n\n2 goals\n\n\n1 goal\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124617", "title": "Jun Kazama", "text": "Jun Kazama\n\nA nature lover, Jun plays an important role in the story in spite of her absence for most of the series. While she was cut from the main series after her debut, Jun has continued to appear in the series' spin-offs, including the \"Tekken Tag Tournament\" series, where her alter-ego, Unknown serves as the final boss in all \"Tag Tournament\" entries so far. Despite her relatively few appearances, the character has gained considerable popularity among the fans of the series.\n\nJun is a young Japanese woman with fair skin and short black hair. Her given name, Jun, is written as 準 which, while literally means \"to conform\", can also mean \"pure\", if written as 純. True to this, she is associated with the color white, which symbolizes purity and innocence. She is mainly seen wearing a sleeveless white shirt with black cropped trousers, white socks and black shoes, which is her main outfit in \"Tekken 2\". Her alternate outfit consists of a light blue safari-themed outfit, which models her occupation as a member of WWWC organization. \"Tekken Tag Tournament\" adds a martial arts-themed outfit based on karate gi. That game's promotional images also has her wearing a simple, sleeveless white dress, which also appears in the game's opening. With the exception of the martial arts outfit, she wears a white hairband in all of her outfits. In her \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\" design, while her outfit still has a white theme, her left leg has a motif similar to her son Jin's karate gi, only with crows instead of flames, which may or may not symbolize her change in personality.\n\nJun practices \"Kazama Style Traditional Martial Arts\", which is a mixed martial arts based on other famous martial arts. It mainly based on aiki-jutsu and jujutsu. Some of her attacks were used by Jin in his \"Tekken 3\" appearance and most were given to her relative Asuka as her main attacks. When she returned in the series in \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\", she was given a greatly updated moveset that, while still shares similarities with her old moveset, has a movelist geared to a more offensive style of attacking, and is made to differentiate more from Asuka's moveset. However, some moves from the previous game are removed.\n\nAccording to \"Hyper\", \"Queen of confusion, Jun has the most befuddling attacks of any character\" in \"Tekken 2\". Her attacks generally deal big damage and she has many parries and excellent counter-attacks to use with enough patience. Her own attacks are very hard to parry, she can be very confusing in the hands of a skilled player. In \"Tekken Tag Tournament\", Jun remains a specialist in defense, using her fast dodges, low parry and devastating counters. At the same time, her combos that strike at all levels make her also a good offensive character, retaining her potential for causing confusion and frustration. Once mastered, she can surprise any enemy. Her juggle combo capabilities are unlimited and, as always, her striking power causes big damage.\n\nJun is an officer of the wildlife protection organization WWWC. She is called \"The Chosen One\" by her relatives. She is highly psychic, being able to sense that Kazuya Mishima's power stemmed from Devil. At the WWWC's orders, she sets out to arrest Kazuya, who smuggles environmentally-protected animals. When the King of Iron Fist Tournament 2 was coming to an end, Jun comes to the realization that Kazuya's supernatural strength stems from Devil. But she is attracted to him by a mystic force beyond her control. She becomes pregnant by Kazuya Mishima. After Kazuya is thrown into a volcano by his father Heihachi Mishima in the conclusion of the tournament, parts of Devil leave him and unsuccessfully attempt to possess Jun's unborn child. She flees to the forests of Yakushima, where she raises her child, Jin, away from evil and danger. Fifteen years later, before the events of \"Tekken 3\", Jun senses the approaching of Ogre and warns Jin to seek out his paternal grandfather Heihachi should anything happen to her. One night, Ogre attacks and knocks out Jin. When Jin wakes up, the Kazamas' house has burned to the ground and Jun is missing. Jin is devastated and swears revenge on Ogre.\n\nAlthough Jun did not appear in subsequent canonical games in the series, she is still mentioned throughout. She appears as a soul or vision in Jin Kazama's \"Tekken 4\" ending, which persuades Jin to spare Heihachi's life in honor of herself. She is also mentioned numerous times by Jin and Kazuya during the prologue of the Scenario Campaign mode of \"Tekken 6\", which retells the main events of previous games. Outside of the main series, Jun appears as a playable character in the non-canonical \"Tekken Tag Tournament\" as well as its sequel, \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\", where she is fought as a boss and transforms into Unknown in the final stage after defeating her. She is also playable in the free-to-play spin-off \"Tekken Revolution\".\n\nJun appears as one of the main characters of \"\", which focused on Jun as she tries to free Kazuya from evil and stop him from killing his father, Heihachi. She is portrayed by Japanese actress Tamlyn Tomita in the 2010 live-action film \"Tekken\", where unlike in the video game series, Jun still lives with Jin well into his adulthood and is killed in a planned bombing by Tekken Corporation, leading Jin to participate in the Tekken Tournament to take revenge. She also appears as a main character in both the \"Tekken Forever\" comic and the ASPECT Comics' \"Tekken\" series.\n\nIn merchandising, Jun is featured as a plush toy based on her appearance in \"Tekken 2\" and an action figure based on her appearance in \"Tekken Tag Tournament\". Along with Kazuya, is featured in a Play Arts Kai series action figure based on her appearance in \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\", created by Square Enix and launched at the 2012 San Diego Comic-Con. A \"Tekken Bishoujo\" series statue of Jun was released by Kotobukiya in 2014. A mix of hers and Asuka's outfit from \"TTT2\" was released in the \"Sexy\" series costumes DLC for \"Soulcalibur V\".\n\n made her debut in 1999 in the non-canonical \"Tekken Tag Tournament\", where she serves as the final boss. Unknown also appears as a rival unit in the tactical role-playing game \"Project X Zone 2\".\n\nUnknown appears to be a tortured soul which has been enslaved by the \"Forest Demon\" (which takes the form of a wolf-like appearance and appears behind her in fights, controlling and mimicking her actions). She has many demonic traits, such as glowing yellow eyes and a devil symbol tattooed on her upper right arm which resembles that of Jin Kazama's. Her default \"costume\" appears to have her otherwise nude body mostly covered in purple with a short, dark brown hair, shiny body paint or oil, as if she had been submerged in it to her chest. Her second, alternate costume shows her dressed in the burnt, ripped remains of a dark brown dress, with bandages wrapped around her arms, shins and instep.\n\nUnknown did not have a story as \"Tag Tournament\" was non-canonical, though her ending shows her finally defeating the Forest Demon and therefore freeing herself. Her appearance as the final boss in \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\" looks like Jun's alternate form (black hair with a similar fashion like Jun, though her eyes have a demon-like pupils). An artbook included in the \"Tekken 6\" Arcade Stick Bundle revealed that she was meant to be Jun's sister enslaved by the \"Forest Demon\" before the scenario was ultimately dropped.\n\nSimilar to Mokujin, Unknown does not have an original moveset. Instead, she mimics other character's fighting styles (with some exceptions), though her fighting style defaults to that of Jun Kazama. In \"Tag Tournament 2\", she instead uses Jun's moveset with added boss-like moves such as summoning spikes and giant hands. In both her incarnations of the first \"Tag Tournament\" and its sequel, Unknown has originally appeared as an unplayable final boss in the arcade versions. She was later made a playable character in the console version of both games, with the former giving her the ability to freely switch her fighting styles using analog stick and the latter toning down her boss moves.\n\nThe character has been well received. Common Sense Media said of Jun in \"Tekken: The Motion Picture\" that her character and morals give the film its only \"shred of redeeming social value\". According to GamesRadar, \"despite a relatively minor role, [Jun] is kind of the linchpin for the whole series' continued plot.\" In 2013, \"Complex\" ranked Jun as the 12th best \"Tekken\" character of all time, stating that \"even though she hasn't been playable in the main series since \"Tekken 2\", Jun's influence continues to affect the other characters.\" Brazilian edition of \"PlayStation Official Magazine\" put her at sixth place on their 2016 list of \"unforgettable\" mothers in PlayStation games.\n\nUpon her introduction in \"Tekken 2\", she was perceived by some as having some of the most beautiful moves in the game. Over a decade later, her in-game model in \"Tekken 2\" was listed by GamesRadar as one of the \"ugly polygon 'babes' of yesteryear\" in an article about attractive video game characters from older games whose low rate graphical in-game models belied their good looks, adding, \"Jun always projected a sort of soft, nurturing femininity that contrasted sharply with her chosen career of punching people in the teeth.\" GamesRadar also listed Jun as one of the top ten gaming \"MILFs\" in 2008. In 2013, Unknown was listed as the tenth \"fiercest female in today's fighting games\" by Gamenguide. \n\nIn the official poll by Namco, Jun was the most requested \"Tekken\" character to be added to the roster of \"Tekken X Street Fighter\", raking up 16.41% of votes. \"Street Fighter\" producer Yoshinori Ono stated that Jun is the character he most wants to be included in the game, in addition to his desire for her to return to the main \"Tekken\" series. \"Tekken\" series' director Katsuhiro Harada acknowledged the high number of requests for Jun's return, stating that Jun was \"missing\", not dead like many believed and that he would consider her return to the series if he reached 5000 followers on Twitter and continued to receive requests for her from fans; this was greatly succeeded and surpassed, leading to her inclusion in \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\". As of May 2012, Jun was the 21st (out of 44) most used character in the online arcade version of \"Tag Tournament 2\" up to that point.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124647", "title": "Forever Living Products", "text": "Forever Living Products\n\nForever Living Products International, Inc. (FLPI) is an American privately held multi-level marketing (MLM) company based in Scottsdale, Arizona, which manufactures and markets aloe vera-based drinks and bee-derived cosmetics, dietary supplements, and personal care products. The company was founded in 1978 by CEO Rex Maughan. After acquiring the company Aloe Vera of America by the 1990s, the company reported a network of 9.3 million distributors and revenue of $1.7 billion in 2010, and in 2006 they reported having 4,100 employees.\n\nForever Living was founded in 1978 in Tempe, Arizona by Carl Jensen and Rex Maughan. By the 1990s, Maughan had purchased the Texas company Aloe Vera of America, with Aloe Vera of America selling its products to Forever Living for distribution. Some journalists have likened the multi-level marketing business model of Forever Living's distribution system to that of a pyramid scheme.\nIn 1983, the company was named No. 6 on \"Inc. Magazine\"'s annual Inc. 500 list of the fastest-growing private companies in the United States.\n\nAccording to Arthur Andersen's Top 100, as of 1993, Forever Living Products International was Arizona's second-largest private company. As of August 1995, \"Forbes\" reported the company's product line included \"deodorants, toothpaste, laundry detergent and three dozen other products, nearly all of which contain extract of aloe.\"\n\nForever Living reported unaudited annual revenue exceeding $1.15 billion in 2005 and ended the year with around 150,000 distributors and 55 employees. The following year, Forever Living was listed at No. 340 on the Forbes 400 list, which ranks the largest private companies in the United States. At the time, the company was described as having 4,100 employees and sold its product in 100 countries.\n\nIn 2010, the company reported unaudited revenue of $1.7 billion and a network of 9.3 million distributors. \nThe company was active in over 165 countries as of 2018. In February 2015, the company announced they had appointed a new management team to \"oversee the affairs of the company in Nigeria.\"\n\nIn 1996, upon suggestion of the American authorities, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the National Tax Agency of Japan (NTA) initiated a joint audit of Rex and Ruth Maughan and related entities Aloe Vera of America (AVA), Selective Art Inc., FLP International, and FLP Japan for the period of 1991 to 1995. In 1997, the NTA imposed a penalty tax of 3.5 billion yen on Forever Living's Japan division for concealing income of 7.7 billion yen over the five-year period. Later that year, AVA, Rex and Ruth Maughan, Maughan Holdings, Gene Yamagata, and Yamagata Holdings sued the IRS for unauthorized disclosure of tax return information. In the midst of the lawsuit, The IRS asked the NTA to drop its decision against Forever Living, and in 2002, the agency “grudgingly complied with the IRS's request”, announcing that the penalty tax had been effectively withdrawn. In February 2015, a USA district court ruled that the IRS knowingly provided some false information about AVA to the NTA, in violation of the United States' tax treaty with Japan. and awarded three of the plaintiffs one thousand dollars each in statutory damages.\n\nIn 2004 claims made about Forever Living products were found to be in violation of several laws in Hungary related to advertising, registration of nutritional products, and the use of cosmetics as medicinal agents. As a result, the company was fined 60 million HUF (approximately US$280,000).\n\nIn 2007, author Richard Bach made claims against the company for copyright infringement and trademark infringement. The lawsuit stated that for over 20 years Forever Living had used the character, storyline, and copyrighted excerpts from the novel \"Jonathan Livingston Seagull\" to promote its marketing plan, and also used the motion picture and novel as its corporate logo. The claim was satisfied through arbitration, and shortly after, Forever Living changed its company logo from a seagull to an eagle.\n\nIn 2015, Forever Living was criticized by the UK Advertising Standards Authority for making false claims about the health benefits of its products, which were sold as a cure for various diseases ranging from diabetes to Crohn's disease. The company was also warned not to use health professionals in its promotional materials. Subsequently, the UK Medicines And Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency launched an investigation after it was revealed that NHS staff were moonlighting as sales people.\n\nBetween 2011 and 2016, Forever Living Products and its associated companies have been sued multiple times in the Superior Court of California by Environmental Research Center (ERC), a California non-profit corporation, for violations of Proposition 65 or the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Exposure Act. The ERC alleged that levels of lead in supplements, makeup, drinks, protein shakes, and bee pollen manufactured by Aloe Vera of America and distributed by Forever Living Products contained lead in quantities requiring warnings to consumers. The products identified in the complaints are no longer available for sale in California and some of the products alleged to contain lead including Garcinia Plus, Forever Lite shakes, and Bee Pollen were part of the Clean 9 kit which was marketed as a \"detox\" program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124658", "title": "Alvis Stormer", "text": "Alvis Stormer\n\nThe Alvis Stormer is a modern military armoured vehicle manufactured by the British company Alvis Vickers, now BAE Systems Land & Armaments. The Stormer is a development of the CVR(T) family of vehicles (Scorpion, Scimitar, Spartan etc.), essentially a larger, modernised version with an extra road-wheel on each side.\n\nLike most modern AFVs, Stormer can be produced in several different configurations for different battlefield roles. It is marketed by BAE as being fitted with many combinations, such as a two-person turret armed with a 25 mm cannon; air defence (with guns or missiles); engineer vehicle; recovery vehicle; ambulance; mine layer; 81 mm or 120 mm mortar carrier; command and control vehicle; bridge layer; and a logistics vehicle. Optional equipment includes a nuclear-biological-chemical protection system, an amphibious kit, passive night-vision equipment, and an air-conditioning system.\n\nSpecific types are:\n\nThe British Army use Stormer equipped with HVM (Starstreak & Lightweight Multirole Missile) for short range air defence. Under Army 2020, Stormer HVM was to equip three regular and two reserve artillery batteries. The reserve batteries have since all been converted to HVM LML to reduce the training burden.\n\nA transport version of the Stormer with a flat load bed is used to carry the Shielder minelaying system.\n\nStormer 30 is a development of the Stormer chassis to give a tracked reconnaissance vehicle. It is a turreted version of the Stormer. Armed with a 30 mm Bushmaster II automatic cannon, and with the option of a TOW missile launcher that can be fitted to either turret side. The cannon and turret can traverse through 360° and the elevation is from -45° to +60°. The rate of fire of the cannon is from single shot to a maximum of 200 rounds per minute. The cannon has a double selection ammunition feed system with 180 rounds of ammunition ready to fire.\n\nThe vehicle remains in the prototype stage and it is unclear when it will enter service. The vehicle will be fully air transportable by C-130 Hercules used by the Royal Air Force aircraft as well as large CH-53 currently in service with NATO allies and other nations across the world.\n\nThe Stormer Air Defence was a prototype air defence vehicle built in the late 80s. This variant was to mount a dual stinger launcher, as well as either a GAU-12/U 25mm or GAU-13/A 30mm Cannon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124669", "title": "Male contraceptive", "text": "Male contraceptive\n\nMale contraceptives, also known as male birth control, are methods of preventing pregnancy that solely involve the male physiology. The most common kinds of male contraception include condoms, outercourse, and vasectomy. In domestic animals, castration is commonly used for contraception. Other forms of male contraception are in various stages of research and development. These include methods like RISUG/VasalGel (which has completed a small phase II clinical trial in humans in India) and ultrasound (with results so far obtained in experimental animals).\n\nVasectomy is a surgical procedure for male sterilization or permanent birth control. During the procedure, the vasa deferentia of a man are severed, and then tied or sealed to prevent sperm from entering into the seminal stream (ejaculate). Vasectomies are usually performed in a physician's office or medical clinic. CDC research has estimated there is a probability of 11 failures per 1,000 procedures over 2 years; half of the failures occurred in the first three months after the vasectomy, and no failures occurred after 72 weeks. Due to the presence of sperm retained beyond the blocked vasa deferentia, vasectomies only become effective about three months following the operation.\n\nA condom is a sheath-shaped barrier device that may be used during sexual intercourse to reduce the probability of pregnancy. It is rolled onto an erect penis before intercourse and blocks ejaculated semen from entering the sexual partner's reproductive system.\nWith perfect use, the pregnancy rate of condoms is 2%. Condoms may be combined with other forms of contraception (such as spermicide) for greater protection. The typical use pregnancy rate among condom users varies depending on the population being studied, ranging from 10 to 18%.\n\nThe withdrawal method is a behavior that involves halting penile-vaginal intercourse to remove the penis out and away from the vagina prior to ejaculation. Pulling out is a popular contraceptive behavior that many couples use because of convenience, dissatisfaction with other methods, it’s free of expense, and has constant availability. Failure rate varies with population studied, but withdrawal is overall not considered to be efficacious enough to be the sole method of pregnancy prevention being utilized. The accepted rate of failure is about 4% with perfect use at every act of intercourse, but the failure rate with typical use ranges in between 18% and 27%\n\nIntentional retrograde ejaculation (\"coitus saxonicus\") is a primitive form of male birth control. It involves squeezing the urethra at the base or applying pressure to the perineum during orgasm. However, the practice is not considered a reliable method compared to most modern types of birth control.\n\nDioscorides, ca. 40 A.D., described the contraceptive property of hemp seeds (\"Cannabis sativa\") and rue (\"Ruta graveolens\") in \"De Materia Medica\", a text widely used into medieval times. One test in rats (20 milligrams of the 80% ethanol extract) found that these reduced sperm count by more than half. In medieval Persia (and in other traditions as cited) these herbs were used for male contraception, as well as \"Gossypium herbaceum\" (Malvaceae), \"Cyperus longus\" (Cyperaceae), \"Vitex pseudonegundo\" (Verbenaceae), \"Chenopodium ambrosioides\" (Chenopodiaceae), \"Aristolochia indica\" (Aristolochiaceae), \"Punica granatum\" (Punicaceae), and \"Sarcostemma acidum\" (Asclepiadaceae). However, the compound isolated from \"Gossypium\", as well as other cotton seeds and okra (gossypol) has been abandoned for contraceptive use because it was found to cause permanent infertility in ten to twenty percent of users.\n\nIn Indian traditional medicine, uses of the neem tree were described in Ayurvedic medicine, by Sushruta and in the Rasarathasamucchaya, Sarangadhara, Bhavaprakasha and Bhisagya Ratnavali. Held traditionally to have antifertility effects, its leaves were demonstrated to reduce pregnancy rate and litter size in a test of male rats.\n\nIn 1995, researchers isolated compounds from a plant used in Chinese herbal medicine called \"Tripterygium wilfordii\" (雷公籐, lei gong teng).\n\nIn 2002, researchers fed extracts from the seeds of papaya fruits (\"Carica papaya\") to monkeys. Subsequently, the monkeys had no sperm in their ejaculate. Traditionally used for contraception, papaya seeds had no apparent ill effects on the testes or other organs of rats tested with a long-term treatment.\n\nHeat-based contraception, dating in concept to the writings of Hippocrates, involves heating the testicles to prevent the formation of sperm. Requiring the maintenance of testes at (just below the threshold of pain) for 45 minutes, it is not a widely appealing technique, but a variant employing ultrasound has been under investigation.\n\nA goal of research is to develop a reversible male contraceptive, either pharmaceutical, surgical or other.\n\nTwo delivery methods are currently under active study: male hormonal contraceptives that can be taken in pill form by mouth, similar to the existing birth control pill for women and male hormonal injections.\n\n\n\n\n\nIt is predicted that introduction of a long-acting reversible contraception for males could decrease the rate of unintended pregnancy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124677", "title": "Ricasso", "text": "Ricasso\n\nA ricasso is an unsharpened length of blade just above the guard or handle on a knife, dagger, sword, or bayonet. Blades designed this way appear at many periods in history in many parts of the world and date back to at least the Bronze Age— essentially, as long as humans have shaped cutting tools from metals.\n\nThere were many reasons to make a blade with a ricasso, and in Europe, later longswords, claymores, rapiers and other lengthy swords often had this feature. One very simple influence presently and historically is fashion, which often answers this question for blades where the presence or lack of a ricasso has no effect on how it is used . Leaving a ricasso can also save the blade maker's time - a section of blade that would not be used given the purpose of the piece does not have to be shaped and sharpened. In many cases however, they are quite functional.\n\nHistorically, ricassos were commonly present on medieval and early Renaissance swords. The basic function was to allow the wielder to place their index finger above the crossguard, which potentially allowed for greater grip strength and torque. This technique was a factor in the evolution of compound hilts which are iconic of rapiers and other Renaissance swords, as the compound hilt allows a ricasso grip while still protecting the hand. \n\nSome of the best known historic examples of ricassos are on large European swords used with two hands. When used aggressively with adequate space to build up swinging momentum, the weapon would be held at the end of the grip for the best reach and power. Some experts on historical combat believe this technique of sustained blade swinging was used as a tactic for swordsmen to penetrate pike formations. However, once the pike line was broken, the swordsman then used the ricasso on his sword to shorten his grip, allowing the sword to be more effectively manoeuvred in the tight press within the enemy ranks as well as offering more leverage and ability to thrust. The ricassos of two-handed swords often have a second, smaller set of quillons past the ricasso, effectively creating a secondary grip. \nThis technique is very similar to the half-sword technique which involves gripping the sharpened midsection of the blade to turn the blade into a sort of lever weapon. It is possible even without gauntlets to hold a sharpened blade relatively safely, with proper technique. \n\nToday, many knives seen outside of the kitchen include a bevel section, though the term is seldom used. These ricassos may serve purely decorative purposes; may offer greater blade strength at a high-stress point; or may be intended to be gripped to provide greater control when performing precise cutting.\n\nA sub-hilt (an additional section of guard located along the length of the grip of a blade, rather than up the blade as with a fluke), is a related feature sometimes found on knives instead of a ricasso. Depending on design, it can offer many of the same advantages in versatility but makes the choked up grip more comfortable. Some blades may have both a sub-hilt and a ricasso, thus offering two possible forward grip positions.\n"}
{"id": "2124698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124698", "title": "Świecko", "text": "Świecko\n\nŚwiecko (German: \"Schwetig\") is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Słubice, within Słubice County, Lubusz Voivodeship, in western Poland, close to Frankfurt an der Oder on the German border. It lies approximately south of Słubice, south-west of Gorzów Wielkopolski (\"Landsberg an der Warthe\"), and north-west of Zielona Góra (\"Grünberg in Schlesien\"). The village has a population of 183 (2016).\n\nThe important A2 autostrada (Poland), which is part of the European route E30, crosses the border near the village. The road connects with the German A12 autobahn at Frankfurt an der Oder, where the two motorways are linked by a motorway bridge across the River Oder. \n\nAll border controls at this crossing ceased as of 21 December 2007 when Poland joined the Schengen Area.\n\nThe village is the site of a former German-nazi concentration camp which functioned during World War II.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2124712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124712", "title": "Superlambanana", "text": "Superlambanana\n\nSuperlambanana is a bright yellow sculpture in Liverpool, England. Weighing almost and standing at tall, it is intended to be a cross between a banana and a lamb and was designed by New York City-based Japanese artist Taro Chiezo. It currently stands in Tithebarn Street, outside the LJMU Avril Robarts Library/Learning Resource Centre, having previously been located on Wapping near the Albert Dock.\n\nChiezo himself only created a four-inch model, while the full-size replica was made by local artists Andy Small, Julian Taylor, Tommy Reason, and Ray Stokes. Developed for the 1998 ArtTransPennine Exhibition, the sculpture is both a comment on the dangers of genetic engineering and is heavily influenced by the history of Liverpool: historically, both sheep and bananas were common cargos in the city's docks.\n\nIn 2008, as part of Liverpool's year-long position as the European Capital of Culture, 125 individual miniature replicas were created. Sponsored by local community organisations and businesses in the city, the mini Superlambananas were located throughout the Liverpool and Merseyside region. One sculpture, \"The Highest SuperLambBanana\", was located on top of Moel Famau, North Wales, recognising the very close links the city has with that region.\n\nThe sculpture was created for the ArtTransPennine Exhibition in 1998, part of an initiative to create a 'corridor of art' through the North of England. Liverpool's contribution, designed by Japanese artist Taro Chiezo, was the \"Superlambanana\" which was unveiled to the city at the reopening of Liverpool's branch of the famous Tate Gallery. An ironic comment on the dangers of genetic engineering, it was developed with the city specifically in mind as both the banana and lamb were once a common cargo in Liverpool's bustling docks. The thinking behind Chiezo's \"Superlambanana\" was the creation of something that 'spoke of the future of 90's Liverpool'. He had previously visited the city and been inspired by the Queensway Tunnel's ventilation shaft, in particular the symbolism of how a vital piece of 1930's engineering had been incorporated into a broader 'sculpture' (or in this case an aesthetically attractive building). Chiezo himself made only a four-inch model, with four local sculptors: Andy Small, Julian Taylor, Tommy Reason and Ray Stokes, recreating it on a scale of 50:1.\n\nIt was created using a wire-mesh frame that supported a concrete and fibreglass shell and was developed at the former Bryant and May Matchworks factory in the south of the City at a total cost of £35,000. The sculpture was at first considered controversial and there was scepticism regarding its purpose and value. However it soon became a popular symbol in the city and a valued piece of public art. At the end of the ArtTransPennine Exhibition, responsibility for the sculpture was handed to the Liverpool Architecture & Design Trust.\n\nSince the sculpture's conception it was intended to move around the city and not remain in one location. It was originally located on the Strand near Liverpool's famous Liver Building and has since been located in several places including Williamson Square, Spike Island in Halton, Cheshire, and on Wapping, close to the Albert Dock. Council leader Warren Bradley also suggested that the sculpture could be moved to Garston in the south of the city in the near future.\n\nAlthough its usual colour is yellow, the statue has occasionally been given a temporary repaint as part of a sponsorship arrangement. Colours have included pink, during a period of sponsorship by the breast cancer awareness charity Breakthrough, the colours of a Friesian cow during a period of 'quasi-vandalism', and purple during the SmokeFree Liverpool campaign.\n\nThere had been a great deal of speculation about the future of the sculpture after it emerged that it was only on loan to the city council from the artist and it had been suggested that the sculpture could be sold to Liverpool's neighbour Manchester. In September 2008 talks began between the Liverpool Culture Company and representatives of Taro Chiezo about keeping the sculpture in Liverpool.\n\nSix months later, in February 2009, it was announced that an agreement had been reached between the two parties that will see a new replica model being made by original sculptor Julian Taylor that will remain in the city for the next 80 years. It is expected that the current \"Superlambanana\" will be returned to Chiezo to be auctioned off.\n\nAs part of Liverpool's Capital of Culture celebrations, 125 two-metre-high replicas of \"Superlambanana\" were commissioned and located throughout Liverpool and the surrounding areas. The mini \"Superlambananas\" were developed in partnership between the Liverpool Culture Company and Wild in Art, with each one being sponsored by a local institution or business and designed by local community members. The miniature \"Superlambananas\" were on display for ten weeks, from the June to August 2008. The \"Liverpool Echo\" partnered with the event, releasing a location map and guide of every mini \"Superlambanana\" to encourage locals to get involved. All but two of them were located within the Merseyside area. \"Lovemedoodle\" was located at Euston railway station in London for a short while until it was moved back to Liverpool Lime Street station, whilst \"The Highest SuperLambBanana\" was located on top of Moel Famau in North Wales and was sponsored by Denbighshire County Council.\n\nAt the end of their ten-week run, the mini \"Superlambananas\" were auctioned off for the Lord Mayor's charities, with each having a guide price ranging from £3,000 to £8,000. The first of two auctions was held at St George's Hall on 9 September 2008 with 68 \"Superlambananas\" up for sale. In total they sold for a combined sum of £550,000 or approximately £7,800 each, well above estimates. The highest bid on the night was £25,000, paid by the Chairman of National Museums Liverpool for \"'Mandy' Mandala Superlambanana\" created by glass artist Patricia Lee, whilst Phil Redmond, creative director of the Liverpool Culture Company, purchased four lots for a total of £55,000. Other notable purchasers included comedian John Bishop, playwright Fred Lawless and \"Big Brother\" star Craig Phillips. A second, internet-based auction (hosted by AuctionYourProperty) took place on 16 September 2008 with 25% of the proceeds going to charity.\n\nEarly in 2010, eight new two-metre-high replicas of \"Superlambanana\", known as the \"Eight for 08\" were commissioned as a permanent piece of public art. Initially placed on The Strand, in front of the Cunard and Liver Buildings, they were destined to be moved to Lime Street station following the station's refurbishment.\n\nAs of October 2014, four of the 'Eight for 08' have been relocated to the Pier Head, outside the new Museum of Liverpool. \"Mandy Mandala Superlambanana\" is in the museum itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124727", "title": "Diane Franklin", "text": "Diane Franklin\n\nDiane Franklin is an American actress and a short films producer.\n\nEarly in her acting career, Franklin appeared in TV commercials for Coca-Cola, Trident, Jell-O, and Maxwell House coffee.\n\nFranklin earned her first role at 17, appearing on two episode of \"As the World Turns\" in October 1979. She may be best known for her next role, when she was cast as Karen, the lead female in the 1982 teen sex drama \"The Last American Virgin\". That same year, Franklin played Patricia Montelli in the horror sequel \"\". Franklin was given top-billing in the her next film, the 1984 erotic comedy \"Second Time Lucky\". She played Monique Junet, a French exchange student, in the 1985 comedy \"Better Off Dead\", and later played one of the Princesses in the 1989 comedy \"Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure\". In 2018, Franklin returned to the Amityville franchise, playing Louise DeFeo in the horror-drama \"The Amityville Murders\".\n\nFranklin appeared as an extra or in guest roles in episodes of various television series, including \"Bay City Blues\", \"Matlock\", and \"Family Law\". She also appeared in three television movies, including a role as Jock Ewing's first wife in 1986's \"\".\n\nIn 2012, Franklin self-published a memoir, \"Diane Franklin: The Excellent Adventures of the Last American, French Exchange Babe of the 80s\".\n\nFranklin is married to animation writer Ray De Laurentis. The couple have two children: daughter Olivia is a comedienne/filmmaker ran the YouTube channel \"Barely Legal Comedy\" until June 2019, while son Nick is a musician.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124741", "title": "Grinch", "text": "Grinch\n\nThe Grinch is a fictional character created by Dr. Seuss. He is best known as the main character of the children's book \"How the Grinch Stole Christmas!\" (1957). He has been played/voiced by many different actors, including: Boris Karloff, Hans Conried, Bob Holt, Anthony Asbury, Jim Carrey, and Benedict Cumberbatch.\n\nThe Grinch is depicted as a hairy, pot-bellied, pear-shaped, snub-nosed creature with a cat-like face and cynical personality. In full-color adaptations, he is typically colored avocado green. He has spent the past 53 years living in seclusion on a cliff, overlooking the town of Whoville.\n\nIn contrast to the cheerful Whos, the Grinch is misanthropic and mean-tempered. The reason for this is a source of speculation; the consensus among the Whos is that he was born with a heart that is \"two sizes too small\". He especially hates the Christmas season, making particular note of how disturbing the various noises of Christmas time are to him, including the singing of Christmas carols. Unable to stand the holiday any longer, he decides to destroy it once and for all.\n\nAided by his pet dog, Max, he disguises himself as Santa Claus and breaks into the Whos' homes to steal everything they own and dump it off a nearby mountain. Although he pulls off the theft successfully, on Christmas morning, he is shocked to hear the Whos still singing cheerfully, happy simply to have each other. He then realizes that the holiday has a deeper meaning that he never considered. Inspired, he stops the Whos' belongings from falling off the edge of the mountain, and in the process (according to those who speculated upon the size of his heart before) his heart grows three sizes. He returns all the gifts he stole and gladly takes part in the Whos' Christmas celebration.\n\nThe Grinch is still portrayed as a bitter and ill-tempered character in artwork or other media. In both the animated TV special and the 2000 live-action film, he is shown to have superhuman strength when he stops an entire sleigh loaded with presents from going over a cliff and lifts it over his head, and he is also described as \"[finding] the strength of ten Grinches plus two\" (a phrase lifted from the original book) during that moment of crisis. In the 2018 film, the Grinch has assistance saving all the Whos' stolen goods.\n\nWith the character's anti-Christmas spirit followed by the transformation on Christmas morning, scholars have noted similarity to Ebenezer Scrooge from Charles Dickens' 1843 novella \"A Christmas Carol\". Cardiologist David Kass suggested that the rapid growth of the Grinch's heart at the end of the story indicates that the Grinch has the physiology of a Burmese python.\n\nIn the 2000 adaptation, when he was a baby, his first sign of hating Christmas was at birth; abandoned in Whoville, he landed outside a \"Christmas party\" (in reality a key party—something that did not yet exist at the time Seuss wrote the book) and was left out in the cold when none of the revelers inside noticed him. When he was taken in he showed violence to the holiday, mostly biting off the head of a Santa plate and drawing violence to him when he was in school. He falls for a Who-girl named Martha, when a large boy bullies him for being different and telling him he already has a beard, which only fuels his determination to make the greatest gift using family heirlooms, a tiny gramophone and a colander and throwing them into a very hot cooking pot. When he returns to school for the gift exchange with a bag on his head, the Grinch is bullied again, this time by the boy about his gift and the bag on his head, to which the teacher tells Grinch to take it off, revealing his futile attempts to shave his face, which causes the whole class, especially the teacher to laugh. This causes the Grinch to lose his temper, resulting in him throwing his gift at a pile of presents, picking up the tree and throwing it, yelling of his hatred for Christmas. The film thus provides a backstory for the Grinch's resentment toward the holiday and the Whos, though Seuss himself simply explained it away as \"no one quite knows the reason\" in the book. The TV special \"The Grinch Grinches the Cat in the Hat\" posits that the death of the Grinch's mother may have also increased his grief and eliminated a positive influence on his life.\n\nThe first use of the word 'grinch' in a work by Dr. Seuss appears in the 1953 book \"Scrambled Eggs Super!\" about Peter T. Hooper, a boy who collects eggs from a number of exotic birds to make scrambled eggs. One of these exotic birds is the \"Beagle-Beaked-Bald-Headed Grinch\" who looks a real sourpuss.\n\nThe name later appeared in the May 1955 issue of Redbook in a 32-line poem called \"The Hoobub and the Grinch.\" This version bears virtually no resemblance to the later character other than name, instead being a fast-talking salesman in the vein of Sylvester McMonkey McBean from \"The Sneetches\" and the Once-ler from Seuss's later book \"The Lorax\". \"The Hoobub and the Grinch\" would be republished as part of the posthumous anthology \"Horton and the Kwuggerbug and More Lost Stories\" in 2014, in which the illustration draws this Grinch far differently.\n\nThe Grinch in his best known incarnation made his book debut in the 1957 story \"How the Grinch Stole Christmas\", written and illustrated by Dr. Seuss, published as both a Random House book and in an issue of \"Redbook\" magazine. In 1966, the story was adapted into an animated television featurette of the same name, which was directed by Chuck Jones and included the song \"You're a Mean One, Mr. Grinch\". Boris Karloff serves as both the story's narrator and the voice of the Grinch, but the song was sung by Thurl Ravenscroft, as Karloff could not sing.\n\nIn 1977, Seuss responded to the fan request for more Grinch tales by writing \"Halloween Is Grinch Night\", that serves as a prequel to the 1966 film. This was followed in 1982, when Marvel green-lit \"The Grinch Grinches the Cat in the Hat\", a TV film starring The Cat in the Hat, also produced by Dr. Seuss (though under his real name, Ted Geisel). Although not as successful as the original, the two films both received Emmy Awards. Several episodes of the 1996 Nick Jr. television show \"The Wubbulous World of Dr. Seuss\" featured the Grinch, this time in puppet form, a rare screen appearance for the character without being animated or illustrated.\n\nA 2000 live-action feature musical comedy film based on the story, directed by Ron Howard and starring Jim Carrey as the Grinch, was a major success of audience and box office. Also, Carrey's performance as the Grinch was praised. A video game based on the film, simply entitled \"The Grinch\", was released on several consoles and PC in the same year. It was followed in 2007 with the release of a Nintendo DS that went under the full title of the movie.\n\nThe Grinch was portrayed on the stage when the story was turned into a musical by the Children's Theater Company out of Minneapolis. The show made it to Broadway by way of a limited run in 2006, with Julia Leuchtenberg playing the Grinch. Icelandic actor Stefán Karl Stefánsson portrayed the Grinch in the touring production of the musical from 2008 to 2015. The Grinch is also a minor character in \"Seussical\", which is a crossover between various Dr. Seuss stories.\n\nThe Grinch's story was adapted in animated form in 2018 by Illumination Entertainment, starring Benedict Cumberbatch as the title character.\n\nThe Grinch has become an anti-icon of Christmas and the winter holidays, as a symbol of those who despise the holiday, much in the same nature as the earlier character of Ebenezer Scrooge. Over the years, the Grinch has appeared on various forms of memorabilia such as Christmas ornaments, plush dolls, and various clothing items. The grumpy, anti-holiday spirit of the character has led to the everyday term \"Grinch\" coming to refer to a person opposed to Christmas time celebrations or to someone with a coarse, greedy attitude. In 2002, \"TV Guide\" ranked The Grinch number 5 on its \"50 Greatest Cartoon Characters of All Time\" list.\n\nHe also made a brief appearance on the television in \"Home Alone\" and \"\".\n\nIn the early hours of Christmas Eve 2018 a group of climbers put a giant Santa hat on Antony Gormley's colossal \"Angel of the North\" statue (20m high, wingspan 54m) near Gateshead, north England; they had attempted to do this, unsuccessfully, for several Christmases. In the early hours of 29 December the pranksters returned, one of them dressed as the Grinch and the others as Santa Claus, and the Grinch \"stole\" Santa's hat.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124780", "title": "Giuseppe Cali", "text": "Giuseppe Cali\n\nGiuseppe Cali may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2124785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124785", "title": "Peter Bromhead", "text": "Peter Bromhead\n\nPeter Bromhead MNZM (born 1933) is a New Zealand commercial interior designer, cartoonist and illustrator.\n\nBromhead trained as an industrial designer in England and Sweden and migrated to New Zealand in the 1950s. He was the editorial cartoonist for the \"Auckland Star\" from 1973 to 1989.\n\nHe was made a Member of New Zealand Order of Merit in the 1999 Birthday Honours, for \"services as a cartoonist.\"\n\nIn 2008 he was made a life member as a Fellow of the Designers Institute of New Zealand. He was described by Richard Long, former Editor of The Dominion Post, \"as probably the best pocket cartoonist operating in the British Commonwealth.\" He has received 11 awards for cartooning at the Voyager Media Awards (previously Canon Media Awards and Qantas Media Awards).\n\nPeter Bromhead has been married four times. Father of 9 known children, with a daughter Esme from the first marriage, Ben, Kate and Hannah are in the mix from different mothers followed by Tim, Kitty, and Thomas from the second and two sons Oscar and Felix with his third wife Carolyn. There is a 56-year gap between his children and he is believed to be \"almost certainly\" New Zealand's oldest father.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124788", "title": "General Electric J47", "text": "General Electric J47\n\nThe General Electric J47 turbojet (GE company designation TG-190) was developed by General Electric from its earlier J35. It first flew in May 1948. The J47 was the first axial-flow turbojet approved for commercial use in the United States. It was used in many types of aircraft, and more than 30,000 were manufactured before production ceased in 1956. It saw continued service in the US military until 1978. Packard built 3,025 of the engines under license. \n\nThe J47 design used experience from the TG-180/J35 engine which was described by \"Flight\" magazine in 1948 as the most widely used American-conceived turbojet.\n\nOverhaul life for the J47 ranged from 15 hours (in 1948) to a theoretical 1,200 hours (625 achievable in practice) in 1956. For example, the J47-GE-23 was rated to run 225 hours time between overhauls. As installed on the F-86F, it experienced one in-flight shutdown every 33,000 hours in 1955 and 1956.\n\n\n\nGround-based vehicles that used the engine include:\n\nIn the 1950s, interest in the development of nuclear-powered aircraft led GE to experiment with two nuclear-powered gas turbine designs, one based on the J47, and another new and much larger engine called the X211.\n\nThe design based on the J47 became the X39 program. This system consisted of two modified J47 engines which, instead of combusting jet fuel, received their heated, compressed air from a heat exchanger that was part of the Heat Transfer Reactor Experiment (HTRE) reactor. The X-39 was successfully operated in conjunction with three different reactors, the HTRE-1, HTRE-2 and HTRE-3. Had the program not been cancelled, these engines would have been used to power the proposed Convair X-6.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124802", "title": "Mountain View Hospital, Las Vegas", "text": "Mountain View Hospital, Las Vegas\n\nMountain View Hospital & Medical Center is a for-profit hospital owned by the Hospital Corporation of America and operated by Sunrise Healthcare System. The 340-bed hospital is located in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nThe hospital opened in February 1996 with 155 beds.\n\nIn January 2013, the hospital expanded and opened a three-story tower and the first phase of its new Emergency Department.\n\nIn July 2013, the second phase of MountainView's Emergency Department opened. MountainView now has 42 private ER beds.\n\nIn October 2013, Mountain View Hospital opened the second phase of its Inpatient Rehabilitation Unit. The rehab unit now has 35 private beds.\n\n\nIn early 2009, registered nurses were faced with patient care concerns and under staffing at a hospital that nearly lost its certification with the United States Department of Health and Human Services due to issues of infection control and contamination of equipment. Nurses began organizing with the California Nurses Association/National Nurses Organizing Committee (CNA/NNOC), and in June 2009, about 30 nurses and union staff attempted to meet with hospital CEO William Wagnon to discuss these issues of public safety and nursing standards. All but two were escorted out of the hospital by security, including nurses on break. Nurses filed for a secret-ballot union election two days later.\n\nA week before the scheduled union election that July, nurses filed charges against the hospital with the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). The NLRB found sufficient evidence to conduct a two-month-long investigation of \"massive illegal conduct\" that included \"surveillance, interrogation, bribery, threats,\" and more. Faced with federal prosecution, a settlement with the NLRB was reached in which HCA agreed to end the illegal practices.\n\nOn January 14, 2010, Mountain View Hospital nurses elected to unionize in a vote of 240 to 152 (approximately 95% participation). Since the merging of CNA/NNOC, the United American Nurses, and the Massachusetts Nurses Association in December 2009, MountainView Hospital is the first hospital in the country to be newly organized under the banner of National Nurses United.\n"}
{"id": "2124803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124803", "title": "Cybertage", "text": "Cybertage\n"}
{"id": "2124806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124806", "title": "Shigeru Muroi", "text": "Shigeru Muroi\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124810", "title": "Dus", "text": "Dus\n\nDus (English: \"Ten\") is a 2005 Indian Hindi-language action thriller film based on the Indian Special Investigation Team (SIT) Officers. The film is directed by Anubhav Sinha and produced by Nitin Manmohan. It stars Sanjay Dutt, Sunil Shetty, Abhishek Bachchan, Shilpa Shetty, Zayed Khan, Dia Mirza and Esha Deol in lead roles. The film is a tribute to celebrated director Mukul S. Anand, who had died while filming the 1997 incomplete film of the same name, and which had also starred Sanjay Dutt along with Salman Khan. The film was a commercial and critical success at the Indian box office.\n\nThe film follows the head of the ATC, played by Dutt, and his team, as they embark on a mission to prevent a deadly terrorist attack orchestrated by an international terrorist and criminal, Jamwaal with only 7 days to do so. The incident was to take place on 10 May, thus explaining the name of the film.\n\nIn the opening scene, Siddhant Dheer (Sanjay Dutt), the head of the Anti-Terrorist Cell (a fictitious organisation), narrates how rampant terrorism has become in the world and goes on to tell the story of 7 of the hardest days in his life.\n\nThe ATC has a tip off about an impending terrorist attack on 10 May, targeting 20–25 thousand people. The man behind the plan is one Jamwaal, a hardened criminal who is feared by politics and the law alike. Siddhant starts an unofficial investigation against Jamwaal. A goon named Altaf is arrested in connection to the case after the ATC defuse a bomb threat at a building.\n\nLater, a woman is shot dead at her own home by an unknown assailant. Siddhant gets a tip from Neha (Esha Deol), an undercover officer stationed by him in Canada, that an aide of Jamwaal named Himmat Mehendi has been arrested by the Canadian police. Siddhant sends his brother Shashank (Abhishek Bachchan) and his partner, Aditya (Zayed Khan) to grab Himmat, take him to a safe location pointed out by Neha and extract information from him about Jamwaal. After attending his sister Anu's (Diya Mirza) engagement, Shashank and Aditya head to Canada on the same day. At the same time, Anu and her husband are kidnapped in lieu of Altaaf's release. Siddhant, then realises that there is a terrorist informer in the ATC itself.\n\nMeanwhile, in Canada, Aditya and Shashank are caught in a tense situation when Aditya realises that the car they are travelling in has a bomb. Being a specialist at defusing bombs, he asks Shashank to drive fast as reducing the speed would detonate it. A local police officer named Dan (Sunil Shetty) is meeting his wife, trying to convince her to return to him after an incident that killed their baby while she was still pregnant, when he sees them driving at top speed. He goes on to pursue them, resulting in a high speed car chase which ultimately culminates in Aditya and Shashank jumping off the car as it travels a bridge, causing it to slow down and explode. They then meet Neha, who reveals that she had planted the bomb in their car (having asked them by phone to get into it in the first place), calling it a test. The two go to her house and later manage to kidnap Himmat, who, at first, claims to them that he is \"JD\". Dan sees them again and now chases them to another bridge, where he roughly interrogates them, all the while refusing to believe who they really are. However, a hit squad appears on the bridge and attacks them. One of their bullets hits Dan on the shoulder while Aditya and Shashank react quickly enough to save his life and kill the men. Later, in custody Himmat breaks down and tells them that everybody working for Jamwaal is a pawn who doesn't know his identity. It is here that Dan teams up with them in return for Shashank and Aditya saving his life and the trio move to his house.\n\nWhile Himmat claims that he does not know anything else, the quartet realize that Himmat believes Jamwaal will save him which is why he is not revealing sensitive information. They then stage an attempt on Himmat's life and a scared Himmat informs them that the only people who pose any real danger to Jamwaal are Asif and Irfan, his once friends turned foes, who betrayed him to foil his plan for the 10th of May. Himmat tells them that he knows where Asif might be.\n\nThe quartet turn up at a disco, Asif's supposed hideout, with Himmat and question him. Asif merely gives them Irfan's whereabouts and commits suicide. They then confront Irfan, believing him to be Jamwaal, and after killing his goons, kill him too. In India, Siddhant prepares a trap to rescue Anu. Anu's husband dies, but Anu is saved and the mole, Roy, is detained and commits suicide instead of suffering the indignity of going to prison, but not before revealing the codeword for the entire operation, \"JEET\". An enraged Siddhant learns from Altaf that the latter had been hired by Jamwaal to kill Asif and Irfan in Canada before the 10th. Siddhant decides to go to Canada, while his colleague and love interest, Aditi (Shilpa Shetty) decides to use Altaf as a bait to track down people in league with Jamwaal. As a result, many high-profile individuals and politicians are exposed.\n\nIn Canada, Himmat is set free. Shashank decides to propose to Neha and goes to her house along with Dan and Aditya. However, they find the house suspiciously empty and dark. Suddenly, they hear the footsteps of an intruder and confront him. They are shocked to find that the intruder is Siddhant, who tells them that Neha had been murdered a long time back. Now, it is revealed that the woman who was shot to death earlier was the real Neha. Siddhant explains that Jamwaal had Neha killed and replaced a fake Neha, since he had prior information to Aditya and Shashank's arrival in Canada(because of Roy). The day Altaf was arrested, Jamwaal suffered an accident and was arrested in a DUI. The real Neha, who had been following them at that point, only knew the real Himmat Mehendi, who had been with Jamwaal at the time and who had been killed by Irfan shortly after that event. It was his body which was found in Priya's car when she was about to divorce Dan. Further more, Jamwaal had wanted to kill his former friends while they were trying to kill him too (Asif having sent the hit squad on the bridge). But Altaf, his hired goon was arrested by ATC. When he was kidnapped by the group while being assumed to be Himmat Mehendi, he kept the misunderstanding going and conned Aditya, Shashank and Dan to do what he wanted Altaaf to do, thus making his coast clear. This leads to one shocking reality- The person that the group had assumed to be Himmat Mehendi was the real Jamwaal.\n\nStill clueless about Jamwaal's plan, the quartet, once again, focuses on \"JEET\". Siddhant figures that every letter in the word has something to do with its position in the English alphabet. J is 10, the date of the attack; E is 5, denoting the month of May; E denotes the time, 5 o' clock and T is 20, which is still unknown. The group later receives information that a football match is supposed to take place at a nearby stadium on that date and the Prime Minister of India has been invited there as the Chief Guest, to be felicitated by the 20-25 thousand people present.\n\nRealizing that this stadium will be bombed on the fateful day at 5 o'clock, the quartet turns up at the stadium and splits up. Early in the piece, Siddhant is captured by the stadium guards, who were in on the plan. Aditya finds the bomb on a car whose registration number ends with the number 20 (thus explaining T in JEET), the timer having also been set at 20 minutes. He drives the car outside the stadium while Shashank finds another bomb of the same size and takes it to a nearby flying club, where he runs into the fake Neha, who confesses that she has fallen in love with him. They load the bombs into a small plane, with Shashank deciding to dispose the bomb off in a deserted area, away from city limits. Dan enters the stadium by another route, only to end up being taken hostage along with his estranged wife and some school children she is escorting. Dan somehow rescues his wife and the children, while Siddhant manages to escape and kill some goons despite being temporarily blinded. As both head to different directions to find Jamwaal, the latter is informed by his men that both the bombs have been taken away and that the mission has failed. Jamwaal tries to escape from the building, only to run into Siddhant. As Siddhant doesn't know him, Jamwaal nearly succeeds in escaping by pretending to be someone else, but Siddhant calls him on his bluff.\n\nHere, Shashank realizes that he has too little time to dispose off the second bomb safely, and decides to crash the plane along with himself and the fake Neha, much to Siddhant's anguish. He bids an emotional farewell to the others and then crashes the plane into a nearby lake. Meanwhile, Aditya is in trouble too because he is running out of time and does not know where to dispose the bomb. Siddhant is distraught by the turn of events. Dan calls for help, with which he succeeds in rescuing Aditya just moments before the jeep explodes in a valley. Jamwaal tries to escape, but is tracked down and shot dead by Siddhant in an elevator.\n\nThe film ends as Shashank's ashes are immersed in the river while Siddhant laments that while everything had returned to normal after those 7 days, he had lost his brother forever somewhere in the sands of time.\n\n\nThe film is a tribute to celebrated director Mukul S. Anand, who had died while filming the 1997 incomplete film of the same name, and which had also starred Sanjay Dutt along with Salman Khan. Shah Rukh Khan was also reportedly set to star in the film. The film had a plot involving terrorism in Kashmir, along with Sylvester Stallone style action scenes. The film had a then unprecedented budget of . However, the 1997 film was cancelled after Anand's death. The 2005 film is a different film, with a different plot.\n\nAccording to Box Office India, it had an excellent opening. In its full theatrical run at the box office, it grossed around and was rated an above average grosser due to its high budget. It was the eighth highest-grossing film of the year 2005.\n\nThe music is composed by Vishal-Shekhar. Lyrics are penned by Panchhi Jalonvi and Mehboob. According to the Indian trade website Box Office India, with around 17,00,000 units sold, this film's soundtrack album was the year's sixth highest-selling.\nThe song 'Dus Bahane' was reportedly the most played song in 2005. The song \"Dus Bahane\" was recreated as \"Dus Bahane 2.0\" for the film \"Baaghi 3\" by Vishal–Shekhar, and this was the first time to recreate their own song.\n"}
{"id": "2124819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124819", "title": "Telescopio Carlos Sánchez", "text": "Telescopio Carlos Sánchez\n\nThe Telescopio Carlos Sánchez is a 1.52 m Dall-Kirkham type infrared telescope with an equatorial mount and an \"f\"/13.8 Cassegrain focus. It is located at Observatorio del Teide on Tenerife, and is operated by the Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias. It was built in 1971 by the United Kingdom and has been used for a wide range of infrared observational programmes, from large-scale Galactic Centre mapping to stellar oscillations.\n\nThe telescope was built by the United Kingdom but was transferred to the Spanish in 1983.\n\nThe name of the telescope was adopted in honour of Prof. , Astrophysics Professor at the University of La Laguna.\n\nSince 2018 this telescope has operated the MuSCAT2 instrument, a four color camera. The first light MuSCAT2 was in August 2017, and science operations started in January 2019.\n\nThe camera is specially designed to engage in simultaneous capture of an image in four colour bands, \" \"g\" (400 to 550 nm), \"r\" (550 to 700 nm), \"i\" (700 to 820 nm), and \"z\" (820 to 920 nm).\"\n\nThis telescope was originally called the Infrared Flux Collector (IRFC) when it was completed in 1972.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124828", "title": "Go West (band)", "text": "Go West (band)\n\nGo West are an English pop duo, formed in 1982 by lead vocalist Peter Cox and rhythm guitarist and backup vocalist Richard Drummie. At the 1986 Brit Awards, they received the Brit Award for British Breakthrough Act. The duo enjoyed popularity between the mid 1980s and the early 1990s and are best known for the international top 10 hits \"We Close Our Eyes\", \"Call Me\", \"Faithful\", and \"King of Wishful Thinking\"; the latter was featured in the 1990 film \"Pretty Woman\".\n\nIn 1982, Cox and Drummie formed the band Go West, with Cox as lead singer and Drummie on guitar and backing vocals. Go West had a publishing deal and possessed a portastudio, but lacked a band or recording company. Cox and Drummie decided, with support from John Glover, their manager, to find a musical producer, and record just two of their songs. The tracks \"We Close Our Eyes\" and \"Call Me\" found Go West landing a recording contract with Chrysalis Records. \n\nGo West's debut single, \"We Close Our Eyes\", was released in 1985 and reached No. 5 on the UK Singles Chart, No. 5 on the US Dance Club Play chart and No. 41 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. The video for the song, directed by Godley & Creme, became an early favourite on MTV. \"We Close Our Eyes\" would prove to be the band's highest-placed UK single, and their only appearance in the UK Singles Chart's top ten.\n\nThe duo's eponymous debut album was released in 1985. It included \"We Close Our Eyes\" and \"Call Me\" as well as \"Don't Look Down\", which served as the prequel to what would be their first top 40 hit in the US. The album peaked at no. 8 in the United Kingdom. \n\n\"Bangs and Crashes\", an album of remixes, B-sides and live tracks, was released in 1986, and included the track \"One Way Street\" which was part of the \"Rocky IV\" soundtrack.\n\nGo West were voted \"Best Newcomer\" at the 1986 Brit Awards.\n\nIn 1987, Go West released the proper follow-up to their debut album, \"Dancing on the Couch\", which made the UK top 20. Although several singles were released, the album's success paled in comparison to the first, particularly in the States. However, it yielded the band's first American top 40 hit single: \"Don't Look Down – The Sequel\". \n\nIn 1990, Go West had a no. 8 hit in the U.S. with \"King of Wishful Thinking\" from the film \"Pretty Woman\". Written by Cox and Drummie in collaboration with Martin Page. the song received an ASCAP award.\nIn 1992, the duo released the \"Indian Summer\" album, which included \"Faithful\". Written by the band and Martin Page and produced by Peter Wolf, the song reached the top 20 in the UK, Canada and the United States.\n\nCox and Drummie appeared on \"Jim'll Fix It: Strikes Again\" in 2007, to re-create a popular 'fix-it' from 1986; in the original show, a fifteen-year-old girl had sung \"We Close Our Eyes\" with Go West as a backup singer.\n\nIn November 2015, a compilation album called \"80's Re:Covered\" featured two Go West covers of The Killers' \"Human\", including a remix, while a recording of a 2003 concert recorded at the Robin 2 in Bilston was released as \"Live Robin 2 - 2003\" CD/DVD in 2016. The concert was previously released as the live DVD \"Kings Of Wishful Thinking - Live\" in 2004.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124829", "title": "Daniel Goode", "text": "Daniel Goode\n\nDaniel Goode (born January 24, 1936) is an American composer and clarinetist.\n\nDaniel Goode was born in New York City. After graduating in 1957 from Oberlin College, he studied composition at Columbia University with Henry Cowell and Otto Luening, receiving an MA 1962. He pursued further studies at the University of San Diego with Pauline Oliveros and Kenneth Gaburo (Benary and Sandow 2001).\n\nGoode's works show influence from several sources, including bird song, Cape Breton fiddling, drone, Indonesian gamelan music, and minimal music (specifically music as a gradual process). Often two or more of these elements are combined in a single composition.\n\nGoode created and served as Director of the Electronic Music Studio of Livingston College, Rutgers University from 1971 to 1998 and is co-director of the DownTown Ensemble which he co-founded in New York in 1983 (Benary and Sandow 2001). As a clarinetist he is proficient in the technique of circular breathing, which he uses frequently in performances with the group.\n\nSince 1976, Goode has been a member of Gamelan Son of Lion, a Javanese-style iron gamelan ensemble dedicated to new music, for which he has composed many works. He has developed a special keyless clarinet made from a length of plastic pipe that allows him to play in the Indonesian slendro tuning system, which he plays with the group on occasion.\n\nHis works are published by Frog Peak Music and Theodore Presser.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124841", "title": "Sonny Landreth", "text": "Sonny Landreth\n\nClyde Vernon \"Sonny\" Landreth (born February 1, 1951) is an American blues musician from southwest Louisiana who is especially known as a slide guitar player. He was born in Canton, Mississippi, and settled in Lafayette, Louisiana. He lives in Breaux Bridge, Louisiana.\n\nLandreth is known as \"the King of Slydeco\" and plays with a strong zydeco influence. Guitarist Eric Clapton has said that Landreth is one of the most advanced guitarists in the world and one of the most under-appreciated.\n\nLandreth is best known for his slide guitar playing, having developed a technique where he also frets notes and plays chords and chord fragments by fretting behind the slide while he plays. Landreth plays with the slide on his little finger, so that his other fingers have more room to fret behind the slide. He is also known for his right-hand technique, which involves tapping, slapping, and picking strings, using all of the fingers on his right hand. He wears a special thumb pick/flat pick hybrid on his thumb so that he can bear down on a pick while simultaneously using his finger-style technique for slide.\n\nLandreth is known for his use of Fender Stratocaster guitars and Dumble Amplifiers. He is also known to use Demeter and Fender amplifiers on occasion. Landreth uses Jim Dunlop 215 heavy glass slides and Dunlop Herco flat thumb picks. His guitars are fitted with DiMarzio and Lindy Fralin pickups, a special Suhr back plate system, and D'Addario medium nickel wound strings gauges 0.13 - 0.56.\n\nLandreth first played in Clifton Chenier's Red Hot Louisiana Band, as the only white member of the band. In 1981, he released his first record, \"Blues Attack\", which also featured C.J. Chenier on saxophone and Mel Melton on harmonica. In 1982, Landreth and Melton formed the band Bayou Rhythm, and eventually added C.J. Chenier to the lineup. The band recorded \"Way Down in Louisiana\" in 1985 Landreth also frequently played in John Hiatt's band, and with John Mayall and the Bluesbreakers.\n\nVince Gill stated that \"Tell Me Lover\" was based in part on Landreth's song, \"Congo Square\".\n\nIn 1998, Landreth was involved in the multi-artist project \"Begegnungen (Encounter)\" mounted by Germany's Rock-Superstar Peter Maffay. They performed together on a new version of Landreth's \"C'est chaud\" on the album and some more songs in the 30 concerts at the arena tour later the same year, documented on the live album \"Begegnungen Live\", released in early 1999. A further guest of Maffay at the Begegnungen album and tour was Keb' Mo'.\n\nLandreth has recorded with Jimmy Buffett, and accompanied him on his 2006, 2007, and 2010 summer tours.\n\nLandreth took the main stage at MerleFest in 2011.\n\nLandreth appeared on HBO's Treme, Season 3, Episode 8\n\nLandreth performed at Clapton's Crossroads Guitar Festival in 2004, 2007, 2010, 2013 and 2019.\n\nIn 2014, Landreth was a guest performer on Eli Cook's album, \"Primitive Son\".\n\nLandreth has released at least the following albums:\n\n\nwith John Hiatt:\n\nwith Eric Johnson:\n\nwith others:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124866", "title": "Merkinė", "text": "Merkinė\n\nMerkinė is a town in the Dzūkija National Park in Lithuania, located at the confluence of the Merkys, Stangė and Nemunas rivers. Merkinė is one of the oldest settlements in Lithuania. The first settlers inhabited the confluence of Merkys and Nemunas in the 9th-10th century BC, at the end of the Paleolithic. On top of Merkinė hill-fort stood one of the most important Lithuanian castles, built in the 13th century, which guarded against invasions of the Teutonic Order. Merkinė was a part of a strategic triangle - Kaunas - Vilnius - Merkinė, protected with the chains of hillforts and castles. The center of Merkinė town is a state-protected urbanistic monument. Merkinė is an important point of Lithuania's domestic tourism.\n\nThe name of the town originates from the river, \"Merkys\", which originates from \"merkti\", an appellative word in the Lithuanian language meaning \"to soak\".\n\nThe names of the town as it is called or was formerly called in other languages spoken by non-Lithuanian ethnic groups which have lived or live in or around the town include: ; , \"Merech\"'; , \"Meretch\".\n\nMerkinė castle first mentioned in written sources in 1359, in Novgorod annuals. In 1377 it was mentioned in the chronicles of the Teutonic Order as \"Merken\" or \"Merkenpill\". Wooden Merkinė castle became important part of Nemunas defence line castles against Teutonic Order. Castle of Merkinė was burned many times, but was rebuilt again. In 1377, 1394, 1403 Teutonic Order attacked Merkinė castle, raiding and plundering local settlements.\n\nGrand Duke of Lithuania and later King of Poland, Jogaila, ensured city rights for Vilnius in 1387, this document was written in Merkinė castle. First church was built in 1387-1392 in Merkinė castle by Vytautas the Great and Jogaila. After the Battle of Grunwald the town started to grow rapidly. Until receiving Magdeburg rights, several taxation agencies of goods operated here. They were notably the source of rapid growth and increased trade.\n\nIn 1569 December 7, city was granted the Magdeburg rights from the monarch of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. Towards the end of the 16th century a town hall was built in the centre of the market square and in the first half of the 17th century a Dominican church and monastery were constructed. Merkinė flourished in the 16th-17th centuries – based on the crossroads of important water and land roads, and receiving royal privileges, the town center has become brickwork. The town had three churches, two monasteries and a river port. In historic documents warehouses are mentioned by the river Nemunas, also Merkinė citizens' possessed Lithuanian type of river trade ships – \"vytinė\". In 1633 privileges were issued for the tan and shoemaker guilds, in 1639 – for the guild of tailors. Merkinė became one of the economical, cultural and spiritual centers of the historic land of Dainava. The town was known to be one of the favorite holiday places for the King of Poland and Grand Duke of Lithuania, Władysław IV Vasa, who also died here in 1648.\nDuring the 1654–1667 war with Russia and during the Great Northern War (1700–1721) Merkinė suffered greatly from Russian and Swedish armies and lost its strategic and economic significance. Merkinė was burned again by the Russian army during the 1794 Uprising which tried to liberate the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth from Russian influence. In 1794 town inventory river port by Nemunas river is mentioned, also Nemunas and Merkys rivers were evaluated as suitable for navigating. In 19th century documents Merkinė was mentioned as river trade center in which river trade ships were built.\nIn 1889 banned Lithuanian press was secretly distributed, priests K. Jagminas and J. Bakšys, book carriers K. Barysas, K. Milius and others acted against Polonization and Russification. The beauty of the surroundings of Merkinė and its history was sung by Vincas Krėvė in the book \"Dainavos šalies senų žmonių padavimai\" (\"The tales of the old people of the Dainava land\")\n\nAfter the Soviet occupation in the surroundings of Merkinė Lithuanian partisans of Dainava military district were active. In villages around Merkinė, Soviet destruction battalions burned down 48 homesteads, killed 37 people, 120 were arrested. In 1945 December Lithuanian partisans led by Adolfas Ramanauskas-Vanagas attacked Soviet occupants based in Merkinė, destroyed Soviet office with documents, Soviet militia, post office, homes of Soviet colonists.\n\nMerkinė hill of crosses - memorial to honour those who died for freedom of Lithuania was created in 1989.\n\nThe earliest mention of Jews in Merkinė is dated 1539, when a dispute was adjudicated (July 8) between a Jew named Konyuk and a Christian in regard to a debt of the former. In 1551 the Jews of Merkinė were named among those of fourteen other towns to be exempted from the special tax levied upon all inhabitants, with the exception of villagers and Jews, at the Lithuanian diet (Seimas) held in that year on November 27 at Vilnius.\n\nIn 1897 Jews made up 73% of the population of the town, and the community numbered 1,900. From the 19th century through the period of Lithuanian independence, the Jewish community was very established and had numerous community organizations and institutions. Following World War I, there was a very active Zionist movement and multiple Zionist organizations had offices in the town.\n\nMerkinė produced in the 19th century some noted Hebrew scholars, as Mordecai Melzer, Isaac Magolis (d. New York 1887), and his son Max Margolis, of the University of California.\n\nOn September 10, 1941, 854 Jews from Merkinė, as well as from Liepalingis, Liškiava, and Seirijai were allegedly shot in a grove near the Jewish cemetery by German Nazis and their Lithuanian collaborators.\nA mass grave of Jews killed during the Nazi occupation is in the forest behind the town.\n\nMerkinė is an important point of domestic tourism. Rural and ecotourism homesteads operate in the region. Merkinė is known as black ceramics center.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124867", "title": "Marcinkonys", "text": "Marcinkonys\n\nMarcinkonys is a village in Varėna district, Lithuania, located south-east of Merkinė. It is the administrative center of the Dzūkija National Park and Čepkeliai Marsh. According to the 2001 census, it had 765 residents.\n\nIts alternate names include Marcinkańce, Martsinkantse, Martsinkantsy, and Martsinkonis.\nThe settlement is known since 1637, when it was a camp of foresters. It began growing after completion of the railway station for the Warsaw – Saint Petersburg Railway in 1864. During the Holocaust, the village had the Marcinkonys Ghetto for the Lithuanian Jews. Some Jews escaped during the liquidation of the ghetto and managed to survive the war.\n"}
{"id": "2124871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124871", "title": "Amanda Wyss", "text": "Amanda Wyss\n\nAmanda Wyss (born November 24, 1960) is an American film and television actress. She began her career in the early 1980s and first gained notice for her role as Lisa in the comedy film \"Fast Times at Ridgemont High\" (1982). She then rose to international prominence after playing Tina Gray in the horror film \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" (1984). She subsequently starred in \"Silverado\" (1985), \"Better Off Dead\" (1985), \"Powwow Highway\" (1989), \"Shakma\" (1990), and \"The Id\" (2016). Outside of film, Wyss has guest-starred on a variety of television series including \"Cheers\" (1985-1986), \"Charmed\" (1999), \"Dexter\" (2006), and a supporting role as investigative reporter Randi McFarland in the television series \"\" (1992-1993).\n\nWyss was born in Manhattan Beach, California. She was discovered by an agent who saw her portray Flora, in \"The Innocents\" and Rhoda, in \"The Bad Seed\" at local LA theatres. After appearing in commercials, Wyss landed her first television role, recurring on Universal's \"When the Whistle Blows\" (1980) as Dolph Sweet's daughter. The same year, she guest-starred on the television series \"The Righteous Apples\". In 1981, Wyss starred in the films \"This House Possessed\" and \"\", and guest-starred on episodes of the several television series including \"Buck Rogers in the 25th Century\", \"ABC Afterschool Specials\", \"Jessica Novak\", and \"Teachers Only\".\n\nIn 1982, Wyss had a supporting role as high school student Lisa in the Amy Heckerling directed and Cameron Crowe-scripted teen comedy classic \"Fast Times at Ridgemont High\", along with then-unknown actors Sean Penn, Phoebe Cates, Forest Whitaker, Jennifer Jason Leigh and Nicolas Cage. Wyss was called in specifically to audition for the character of Lisa and had to improv with Judge Reinhold. \n\nThe same year, she guest-starred on two episodes of the television series \"Star of the Family\". In 1983, Wyss appeared in the television films \"Lone Star\", \"The Tom Swift and Linda Craig Mystery Hour\", and \"A Killer in the Family\". \n\nThe following year, Wyss starred in the television film \"My Mother's Secret Life\" before starring in Wes Craven's horror film \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" (1984) as Tina Gray (the first person murdered onscreen by Freddy Krueger), along with Robert Englund, Heather Langenkamp, John Saxon, and Johnny Depp. Like all of the other actresses auditioning for the film, she originally read for the part of Nancy Thompson. After receiving a call back, she was paired with Langenkamp and auditioned for the supporting role of Tina which ultimately went to her.\n\nThe following year, Wyss guest-starred in the television series \"Otherworld\" before starring in the films \"Silverado\" as Phoebe and \"Better Off Dead\" as Beth, who sunk the main character into his depression by breaking up with him. From 1985 to 1986, Wyss guest-starred on \"St. Elsewhere\" as Pru Dowler and \"Cheers\" as Beth Curtis. In 1986, Wyss starred in the television films \"Firefighter\" and \"Something in Common\". The same year, she starred in \"Flag\". In 1987, Wyss was cast in the television film \"Independence\" and the television series \"The New Adventures of Beans Baxter\", \"My Two Dads\", and \"Cagney & Lacey\". In 1989, Wyss starred in the horror film \"To Die For\" as Celia Kett. The same year, she portrayed Rabbit Layton in \"Powwow Highway\".\n\nIn 1990, Wyss appeared in the cult horror film, \"Shakma\" (1990). In 1991, Wyss reprised her role as Celia in \"\" and starred alongside Mark Hamill in \"Black Magic Woman\". The following year, Wyss starred in Season 1 of the fantasy television series \"\" (1992) as a reporter named Randi McFarland. In 1997, Wyss was cast as Michelle Harding in \"Strategic Command\". In 1999, Wyss guest-starred as Stevie on the television series \"Charmed\". The following year, Wyss was cast in the short film \"Bella! Bella! Bella!\" as Charlotte Breceda. In 2001, Wyss guest-starred on the crime series \"\". In 2002, she appeared in an episode of \"Judging Amy\" and \"Drew Carey Show\". In 2004, Wyss portrayed Sonya Witkowski in 2 episodes of the television series \"Cold Case\". In 2006, Wyss guest-starred as a social worker in the television series \"Dexter\".\n\nShe was a special guest of the Crypticon 2010. The same year, Wyss appeared in \"The Graves\" (2010). In 2014, Wyss portrayed Joanna Cass in an episode of \"Major Crimes\". In 2016, Amanda starred in the horror film \"The Id\". The same year, Wyss had a recurring role as Kat Cooper in 3 episodes of the television series \"Murder in the First\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2124881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124881", "title": "Heaven and Earth (1990 film)", "text": "Heaven and Earth (1990 film)\n\nKen Watanabe was originally cast in the role of Kenshin but had to pull out due to his severe illness.\n\nSet in feudal Japan, the \"daimyō\" Kagetora (Enoki) must protect his lands and his people from the ambitions of the warlord Takeda (Tsugawa).\n\nKagetora is also known as Uesugi Kenshin. In the film, Kagetora must defend his province of Echigo against Takeda Shingen. The famous battles include the Battle of Kawanakajima.\n\n\n\"Heaven and Earth\" was the number one Japanese film on the domestic market in 1990, earning ¥5.05 billion in distribution income. , the film has grossed a total of () in Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124886", "title": "Gin Chow", "text": "Gin Chow\n\nGin Chow (1857 – June 1933) was a Chinese immigrant who gained fame in California as a prophet and fortune teller able to predict the weather and other natural events. Chow is credited with successfully predicting the 1925 Santa Barbara earthquake. Chow was also the main plaintiff in the California Supreme Court case \"Gin Chow v. City of Santa Barbara\" which still ranks as one of the most important water rights cases in the state.\n\nBorn in Guangzhou as the son of teachers, Chow immigrated to California at the age of 16 in 1873 arriving in San Francisco he worked as a dish washer in a French restaurant, went into domestic service for six years and later became a gardener. It was while living in Northern California that he met his wife with whom he had three children. By 1890 Chow had moved south to the Lompoc Valley where he owned a small farm and grew strawberries and casaba melons which he then sold on the streets of Santa Barbara.\n\nChow gain regional reputation with accounts of his prediction of the 1925 earthquake which hit the Santa Barbara area retold in articles by Los Angeles Times columnist Harry Carr and in books by Santa Barbara News-Press publisher Thomas More Storke. Greater recognition came when Chow himself produced \"Gin Chow's First Annual Almanac\" in 1932 with the encouragement of Carr. The book included details on some of his past predictions as well as prognostications. Chow's popularity remained thanks in part to daily weather forecasts from Chow featured in Carr's Times columns and read by Chow over the radio on station KHJ. The income provided by his book enabled Chow to save his farm from bankruptcy.\n\nIt was to save his farm that Chow also filed suit against the Cities of Santa Barbara and Montecito in 1928. The case reached the California Supreme Court in 1930 and was decided in favor of the cities.\n\nGin Chow died in 1933 at the age of 76 after being struck by a truck while walking.\n\nChow's main claim to fame, the prediction of the Santa Barbara earthquake was described best in \"Gin Chow's First Annual Almanac\" published in 1932. In the book Chow states that on December 23, 1920 he posted a notice in the Santa Barbara post office letting it be known that an earthquake would flatten the city on June 29, 1925. The earthquake struck on the date noted and leveled 70 buildings in the city's commercial district.\n\nOther predictions by Chow cited by Thomas Storke in his 1958 book \"California Editor\" include a prediction of the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake and a 1932 prediction of a United States war with Japan that would end in 1946 (World War II ended in 1945).\n\nChow made weather predictions he broadcast on KHJ, a local radio station of the time, and which Harry Carr included in his daily column in the L.A. Times. His weather prognostications came to be seen as being more accurate than those of the U.S. Weather Bureau.\n\nChow's last prediction came in 1932. He had been seriously gored by a bull and doctors believed him to be on his deathbed. Yet, Chow assured them that he would die one year later in 1933.\n\nSkeptics of Chow point to there being no evidence that his earthquake predictions are anything but claims made after the events took place. Critics also called Chows's assertion that he used a mystic key handed down from his ancestors to make his calculations, magic hidden as science and pointed to an increasingly erratic record in predicting the weather as a sign that his predictions were based on random guessing.\n\nAlleging that Santa Barbara and Montecito were unlawfully diverting water for domestic use from the Santa Ynez River by having previously dammed it and planning to construct another dam, Chow filed a lawsuit against the Cities of Santa Barbara and Montecito for injunctive relief to obtain entitlement to water being diverted. Chow believed that his water rights, as an owner of land through which the Santa Ynez passed, were being violated.\n\nThe case reached the California Supreme Court (217 Cal. 673, 22 Pac. 5). The court ruled that no waters captured by the cities could have passed into Chow's holdings because the water taken by the cities constituted \"... extraordinary storm waters of the river...\" meaning that cities were entitled to take the excess flood waters from rivers \"... where no use is made of such waters on the riparian land and no benefit accrues to riparian land from their passage over the bed of the stream, and no damage is caused to the riparian land from the proposed diversion.\"\n\nThe case is seen as having set a precedent for the state to build more dams.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124889", "title": "ESA Optical Ground Station", "text": "ESA Optical Ground Station\n\nThe ESA Optical Ground Station (OGS Telescope or ESA Space Debris Telescope) is the European Space Agency's ground based observatory at the Teide Observatory on Tenerife, Spain, built for the observation of space debris. OGS is part of the Artemis experiment and is operated by the IAC (Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias) and Ataman Science S.L.U.\n\nThe telescope is a 1-metre Coudé telescope with field of view of 0.7 degrees, supported by an English-built mount inside a dome 12.5-metre in diameter. Its main purposes are: \n\nIt is equipped with a cryogenically cooled mosaic CCD-Camera of 4k×4k pixels. The detection threshold is between 19th and 21st magnitude, which corresponds to a capability to detect space debris objects as small as 10 cm in the geostationary ring. As a large part of the observation time is dedicated to space debris surveys, in particular the observation of space debris in the geostationary ring and in geostationary transfer orbits, the term ESA Space Debris Telescope became used very frequently. Space debris surveys are carried out every month, centered on New Moon.\n\nSince 2006, the telescope has also been used as a receiver station for quantum communication experiments (such as testing Bell inequalities, quantum cryptography, quantum teleportation), with the sender station being 143 km away in the observatory on La Palma. This is possible because this telescope can be tilted to a near-horizontal position to point it at La Palma, which many large astronomical telescopes are unable to do.\n\nEAS OGS has been credited by the Minor Planet Center with the discovery of 37 minor planets. These are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124893", "title": "Flag of Zakynthos", "text": "Flag of Zakynthos\n\nThe flag of Zakynthos, Greece, or Flag of Zante, has a dark green background with an orange depiction of Zakynthos, the mytho-historical first resident of the island and its namesake, in the centre. Zakynthos, partially draped in a robe, is sitting on rock holding a semi-coiled snake to the right. Zakynthos (ΖΑΚΥΝΘΟΣ) is written to the upper right of the man, with the island's motto \"\"Freedom needs virtue and courage\"\" (ΘΕΛΕΙ ΑΡΕΤΗ ΚΑΙ TOΛMH\nΗ ΕΛΕΥΘΕΡΙΑ - \"théli aretí ke tólmi i elefthería\") under the man, both written in all caps in Greek and in the same colour as the central image. The flag flies throughout the island and is flown above every public building, often in tandem with the national flag of Greece.\n"}
{"id": "2124894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124894", "title": "Kunjali Marakkar", "text": "Kunjali Marakkar\n\nThe Kunjali Marakkar or Kunhali Marakkar was the title given to the naval chief of the Zamorin of Calicut (\"Kozhikode Samoothiri\") in present-day Kerala, India during the 16th century. There were four Kunjali Marakkars who were the naval commanders of Zamorin in his naval war against the Portuguese from 1507 to 1600. The Kunjali Marakkars are credited with organizing the first naval defense of the Indian coast.\n\nThe title of \"Marakkar\" was given by the Zamorin. It may have been derived from the Malayalam language word \"marakkalam\" meaning ‘boat,’ and \"kar\", a termination, showing possession.\n\nThe four Kunjali Marakkars and their tenure:\n\nAccording to tradition, Marakkars were originally Muslim marine merchants of port Kochi who left for Ponnani in the Zamorin's dominion when the Portuguese fleets came to Kingdom of Cochin. They offered their men, ships and wealth against the Portuguese to the Zamorin of Calicut-the king took them into his service and eventually they became the Admirals of his fleet. Another version suggests that they were merchants of Cairo, Egypt who settled in Kozhikode and joined the Samoothiri's navy.\n\nThe Portuguese initially attempted to obtain trading privileges in 1498, but soon had troubles because the pressure from the Muslim Arabs over the Zamorin, since they had traditionally been trading in his ports, and did not want to lose the monopoly in trading spices. The Zamorin resisted these attempts which resulted in the Portuguese trying to destabilise his rule by negotiating a treaty with his arch enemy, the Kingdom of Cochin in 1503. Sensing the Portuguese superiority at sea, the Zamorin set about improving his navy. He appointed Kunjali Marakkar to the task.\n\nThe fight between the Zamorin and the Portuguese continued on until the end of the 16th century, when the Portuguese convinced the Zamorin in 1598 that Marakkar IV intended to take over his Kingdom. The Zamorin then joined hands with the Portuguese to defeat Marakkar IV, ending in his defeat and death in 1600.\n\nThe Kunjali IV had rescued a Chinese boy, called Chinali, who had been enslaved on a Portuguese ship. The Kunjali was very fond of him, and he became one of his most feared lieutenants, a Muslim and enemy of the Portuguese. The Portuguese were terrorized by the Kunjali and his Chinese right-hand man, eventually, after the Portuguese allied with Calicut's Samorin, under Andre Furtado de Mendoça they attacked the Kunjali and Chinali's forces, and they were handed over to the Portuguese by the Samorin after he reneged on a promise to let them go. Diogo do Couto, a Portuguese historian, questioned the Kunjali and Chinali when they were captured. He was present when the Kunjali surrendered to the Portuguese, and was described: \"One of these was Chinale, a Chinese, who had been a servant at Malacca, and said to have been the captive of a Portuguese, taken as a boy from a fusta, and afterwards brought to Kunhali, who conceived such an affection for him that he trusted him with everything. He was the greatest exponent of the Moorish superstition and enemy of the Christians in all Malabar, and for those taken captive at sea and brought thither he invented the most exquisite kinds of torture when he martyred them.\" However, de Couto's claim that he tortured Christians was questioned, since no other source reported this, and is dismissed as ridiculous.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124895", "title": "Police Rapid Response Unit (Finland)", "text": "Police Rapid Response Unit (Finland)\n\nThe Police Special Intervention Unit (SIU) (; ) is a national police tactical unit of the Police of Finland situated at the Helsinki Police Department. It is commonly known with the nickname Bear Squad ()\".\n\nThe Police Special Intervention Unit was formed as a national police tactical unit in the spring of 1972. It provided security for the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe, held in Helsinki in 1975. According to Finnish law, all counter-terrorist operations are within the jurisdiction of the Police. In addition to operative units, the group includes sniper, technical support, police dog, and bomb disposal teams. It can be reinforced with a negotiation team during hostage situations. The Karhu Unit operates under the authority of the Helsinki Police Department and, in turn, the National Police Board and the Ministry of the Interior. Team members are selected from currently serving law enforcement personnel and undergo a training of one year, followed by a continuous on-the-job training programme. They alternate between normal field work, training and special operations duties: Training takes approximately half and special operations of their time while the rest consists of regular duties. The team had a strength of around 60 officers and 4 police dogs in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "2124905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124905", "title": "Heaven and Earth (ProjeKct X album)", "text": "Heaven and Earth (ProjeKct X album)\n\nProjeKct X was a side project of the music band King Crimson during 1999–2000.\n\nIn 2000, while the band King Crimson recorded their album \"the construKction of light\", the four members of this line-up also recorded the album \"Heaven and Earth\" as ProjeKct X. The line-up consisted of Robert Fripp on Guitar, Adrian Belew on Guitar and V-Drums, Trey Gunn on Warr Guitar, and Pat Mastelotto on traps and \"buttons\" (electronic percussion and loops).\n\nThis continued the tradition of ProjeKcts One, Two, Three, and Four (sub-groups into which King Crimson 'fraKctalised' from 1997 to 1999).\nHeaven and Earth is an album by ProjeKct X released in 2000 on the DGM label in the US and Germany and Pony Canyon in Japan The title track later appeared as the last track on \"the construKction of light\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124911", "title": "Summer of 4 Ft. 2", "text": "Summer of 4 Ft. 2\n\n\"Summer of 4 Ft. 2\" is the twenty-fifth and final episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> seventh season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on May 19, 1996. In the episode, the Simpson family stay in Ned Flanders' beach house. Hanging around with a new set of children, Lisa becomes popular, while Bart is left out. Bart tries to sabotage his sister's newfound acceptance, but fails.\n\nThe episode was written by Dan Greaney and directed by Mark Kirkland. The episode guest stars Christina Ricci, who recorded her lines over the phone instead of going into the studio. The beach house at Little Pwagmattasquarmsettport the Simpson family stays in is based on then-show runner Josh Weinstein's parents' house in New Hampshire. The episode features cultural references to Pippi Longstocking, \"The New Yorker\" character Eustace Tilley, and Alice and The Hatter from \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\".\n\nSince airing, the episode has received positive reviews from television critics. It acquired a Nielsen rating of 8.8, and was the second highest-rated show on the Fox network the week it aired.\n\nOn the last day of school, Lisa realizes how unpopular she is when nobody signs her yearbook. Her disappointment grows when she sees students lining up to get Bart's signature.\n\nNed Flanders offers the Simpsons the use of his beach house for the summer. Marge suggests that Bart bring Milhouse and Lisa invite a friend. Feeling like she has no friends, Lisa decides to change her image to gain popularity. She leaves behind her \"nerdy\" belongings since she fears they would make people like her less. At the beach house, Lisa tells Marge she forgot to pack, so she buys new clothes, thinking they will make her look \"cool\" to other children.\n\nLisa succeeds in making friends by acting detached and hiding her above-average IQ. Bart grows jealous because Lisa becomes more popular than he is by using some of his own traits and tactics. Bart exacts revenge by showing Lisa's yearbook to her new friends, exposing her as a smart overachiever. Lisa runs away from Bart and her new friends crying.\n\nThe next day, Lisa is angry at Bart for ruining her newfound friendships. Later he realizes how his jealousy and selfishness have cost Lisa the best friends she has ever had. After the carnival, Lisa returns to the beach house to find her friends decorating the Simpsons' car with seashells in her honor. They explain that she need not feign being \"cool\" because they like her for her true self. To make amends with Lisa, Bart gets Milhouse and her new friends to sign her yearbook.\n\nThe episode was written by Dan Greaney, and directed by Mark Kirkland. It was Greaney's second episode on \"The Simpsons\". The staff of the show wanted to do a summer episode because there was \"so much stuff\" about summer vacations that they felt had to be covered in an episode. David Silverman, one of the show's animators, particularly liked the episode because he thought it captured the feeling of being on summer vacation.\n\nThe area in which the Flanders family's beach house is located in is based on the Cape Cod peninsula. Many of the writers of \"The Simpsons\" spent time on Cape Cod so they decided to model the new locations on it. The animators looked at Cape Cod photographs to get inspiration for the episode, and one of the show's background designers, Lance Wilder, grew up in that area. The beach house is based on then-show runner Josh Weinstein's parents' house in New Hampshire, which the writers had visited many times. They played several board games when they were there, which gave them the idea to have to the Simpson family play the \"Mystery Date\" board game in the episode. Silverman said that the episode was difficult to animate and direct because it had so many new and detailed backgrounds and completely different locations.\nAmerican actress Christina Ricci guest starred in the episode as Erin, one of Lisa's new friends. Ricci was not able to come to the recording studio, so she recorded all of her lines over the phone. Weinstein, who was a fan of Ricci, thought she did a nice performance in the episode.\n\nThe episode's title is a parody of the 1971 film \"Summer of '42\". Lisa has a daydream in which the following fictional characters appear: Pippi Longstocking, \"The New Yorker\" character Eustace Tilley, and Alice and The Hatter from \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\". Milhouse compares Lisa's new appearance to the character Blossom from the American television series \"Blossom\". TeeJay's ZayMart is a spoof of defunct retailer Zayre and parent company T.J. Maxx. Homer replicates a scene from the 1973 film \"American Graffiti\" when he nonchalantly buys some stereotypically embarrassing products at the store in order to get some illegal fireworks. The \"Mystery Date\" board game that the family is forced to play is an actual Milton Bradley Company board game from the 1960s. Weinstein recalled playing it as a child and claimed it to be \"a very disappointing game to play as a little boy\" because of the female target audience. The Beach Boys song \"All Summer Long\" plays during the credits.\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"Summer of 4 Ft. 2\" finished forty-second (tied with \"Melrose Place\" and \"Married... with Children\") in the ratings for the week of May 13 to May 19, 1996, with a Nielsen rating of 8.8. The episode was the second highest-rated show on the Fox network that week (tied with \"Melrose Place\" and \"Married... with Children\"), following \"The X-Files\".\n\nSince airing, the episode has received positive reviews from television critics. The authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, wrote: \"This episode will strike a chord with anyone that's ever tried to fit in with the crowd [...] Lisa gets to show the many facets of her character, and there's a superb slapstick sequence as Homer tries to dispose of a firework.\"\n\nDave Foster of DVD Times praised the episode and said: \"The episode is quite simply my favourite Lisa episode regardless of season. From calm to cool and fiercely aggressive, we've rarely seen Lisa so enticing as we do here, and the episode's many elements including the side stories for the other family members culminate in one of the finest this season has to offer.\" \n\nDVD Movie Guide's Colin Jacobson enjoyed the episode and said that he likes how it addresses Bart's resentment of Lisa's popularity. \"Granted, it makes [Bart] a little too mean, but it's entertaining\", he added. Jacobson went on to say: \"Marge gets the best moment again, as I love watching her non-violent approach to the bumper cars.\" \n\nJennifer Malkowski of DVD Verdict considered the best parts of the episode to be the scenes that feature Milhouse, particularly his yearbook message to Lisa and the scene with the Mystery Date board game. She concluded her review by giving the episode a grade of A.\n\nVoice actress Yeardley Smith has mentioned this episode is one of her favorite \"Simpsons\" episodes of all time. When \"The Simpsons\" began streaming on Disney+ in 2019, former \"Simpsons\" writer and executive producer Bill Oakley named this one of the best classic Simpsons episodes to watch on the service.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124919", "title": "Constitution of Algeria", "text": "Constitution of Algeria\n\nAn Algerian Constitution was first adopted by a referendum in 1963, following the Algerian War of Independence (1954–62); originally, it was to be drafted by a constitutional assembly led by Ferhat Abbas, but this body was sidelined by Algeria's first President, Ahmed Ben Bella. In its 1963 form, the constitution declared Algeria a one-party state ruled by the former resistance movement, the National Liberation Front (FLN). This constitution was suspended by the military coup d'état of 1965. After years of ruling by executive fiat as leader of the Revolutionary Council, Houari Boumédienne issued a second constitution in 1976, emphasizing the importance of socialism and - formally - restoring political institutions to their primacy over the military establishment. (Boumédienne was then elected the country's second president, after having left the post vacant for eleven years.)\n\nIn 1986, Boumedienne's successor Chadli Bendjedid modified the constitution to allow for free-market reforms, and, after the 1988 October Riots, brought in a new constitution in 1988. This was approved in a referendum by 73% on 23 February 1989. It introduced a multi-party system, removing the FLN from its role as leading party, and made no mention of socialism; instead it promised \"freedom of expression, association, and assembly\". A 1992 military coup introduced a state of emergency, which suspended parts of the new constitution, as the Algerian Civil War began.\n\nIn 1996, the constitution was further modified, allowing the formation of political parties not \"founded on a religious, linguistic, racial, sex, corporatist or regional basis\" or violating \"the fundamental liberties, the fundamental values and components of the national identity, the national unity, the security and integrity of the national territory, the independence of the country and the People’s sovereignty as well as the democratic and republican nature of the State.\"\n\nA further proposed revision, believed to be intended to remove the presidential term limit (Article 74) to allow the President to run for office indefinitely often, was discussed during 2006 by Prime Minister Abdelaziz Belkhadem's government. This was widely seen to be instigated by President Abdelaziz Bouteflika, who had been elected to his second and, constitutionally, final mandate in 2004. Other changes discussed concerned a move towards a presidential system, introducing the post of Vice President among other things.\n\nThe 1996 constitution was modified in 2008 and replaced by 2016 Constitution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124936", "title": "Murder at the Margin", "text": "Murder at the Margin\n\nMurder at the Margin (1978) is a whodunnit written by U.S. economists William Breit and Kenneth G. Elzinga using the joint pseudonym Marshall Jevons. The novel introduces Harvard economist Henry Spearman, a small, middle-aged, balding man who, when faced with murder, turns into an amateur sleuth who solves crimes by means of economic reasoning.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124940", "title": "Ian Rowland", "text": "Ian Rowland\n\nIan Rowland is a corporate speaker, trainer and consultant based near London, England.\n\nHe is also a member of the Inner Magic Circle and often uses magic and mentalism effects to illustrate certain points in his corporate training presentations.\n\nIn 1998, Rowland published the first edition of his book, \"The Full Facts Book of Cold Reading\". This book has sold tens of thousands of copies all around the world. Rowland published the book independently, and has never used a conventional publishing company.\n\nIn 2010 Rowland was invited to lecture to the FBI. He is the only person from outside the United States that the FBI have ever hired for training purposes.\n\nRowland has also been hired to lecture to the sports psychologists working with the British Olympics Team, and the Ministry of Defence.\n\nHe was featured in the 1996 Channel 4 documentary \"Break the Science Barrier\" with Richard Dawkins, where he demonstrated various techniques used to simulate psychic phenomena. He claimed to be able to recreate all the abilities shown by self-professed psychics, without having to resort to any supernatural or paranormal explanations.\n\nOn the ABC TV magazine \"Primetime\", Rowland demonstrated that, purely by using cold reading, he could convince members of the public that he could communicate with the dead. He is the only performer to have demonstrated this ability for the media.\n\nHe has been a contributor to The Straight Dope Message Board and guest contributor of Staff Reports under the user name ianzin.\n\nCiting Rowland's explanation of how cold reading is used in the psychic industry, journalist Malcolm Gladwell has criticised the practice of offender profiling by the FBI.\n\nIan Rowland occasionally assists at monthly meetings of the Young Magician's Club, at The Magic Circle headquarters in London, helping under eighteens to learn about magic. He also runs public classes in Applied Cold Reading in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124956", "title": "Athenodoros", "text": "Athenodoros\n\nAthenodoros or Athenodorus was the name of several figures in the ancient world:\n"}
{"id": "2124961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124961", "title": "Mumbai–Pune Expressway", "text": "Mumbai–Pune Expressway\n\nThe Mumbai Pune Expressway (officially Yashwantrao Chavan Expressway) is India's first six-lane concrete, high-speed, access controlled tolled expressway. It spans a distance of 94.5 km connecting Mumbai, the capital of Maharashtra state and the financial capital of India, with Pune, the cultural and educational capital of Maharashtra. The expressway, which was fully operationalized in 2002, introduced new levels of speed and safety in automobile transportation to Indian roads. It is one of India's busiest roads.\n\nThe expressway starts at Kalamboli in Mumbai and ends at Kiwale in Pune. It cleaves through the scenic Sahyadri mountain ranges through passes and tunnels. It has five interchanges: Kon (Shedung), Chowk, Khalapur, Kusgaon and Talegaon The expressway has two carriageways, each with three concrete lanes, separated by a central divider and a tarmac or concrete shoulder on either side. Pedestrians, two-wheelers, three-wheelers, bullock carts and tractors are not permitted, although tractor-trailers (semi-trailer rigs) are permitted. Vehicles are also prohibited from halting on the expressway. The expressway handles about 43,000 PCUs daily, and is designed to handle up to 1,00,000 PCUs. \n\nThe expressway has reduced the travel time from Kalamboli in Mumbai to Kiwale in Pune to about two hours. It has largely supplemented the Mumbai-Pune section of NH 48 which had become extremely congested and accident-prone.\n\nThe expressway is not part of NHAI highway network NH 48 and has been built, operated and maintained wholly by the Government of Maharashtra via Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation. NH 48 is another separate older national highway.\n\nThe government of Maharashtra appointed RITES and Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick in 1990 to carry out feasibility studies for the new expressway to be operated on toll basis. RITES submitted its report in 1994 with the estimated cost of project at .\n\nThe government of Maharashtra entrusted the work of the construction of the expressway to MSRDC in March 1997 on Build-Operate-Transfer basis with permission to collect toll for 30 years. The Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India gave environmental clearance on 13 October 1997 and forest clearance on 11 November 1997.\n\nThe tender notice was published in leading newspapers all over India and also on the Internet. Due to the wide publicity, 133 tenders were sold and 55 tenders were received on 18 December 1997. After technical and financial evaluation, work orders were given on 1 January 1998 to four contractors. Thereafter tenders for widening of Khandala and Lonavala-Khandala bypass works were invited. The tenders were received on 24 August 1998 and orders were issued on 4 September 1998.\n\nThis six-lane project was completed under the stewardship of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). The expressway cost to construct. The first sections opened in 2000, and the entire route was completed, opened to traffic and made fully operational from April 2002. The entire length of expressway has a single layer of barbed wire fencing to keep out stray animals.\n\nThe expressway was conceived and the work started when a coalition of BJP and SS governed Maharashtra. Eventually, in 2009, the then ruling coalition (INC, NCP) named the expressway after the first Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Yashavantrao Chavan, who was a member of the Congress.\n\nPrior to the opening of the expressway in 2002, the fastest way to travel from Mumbai to Pune was the Deccan Queen train, which completed the journey in just under 3 hours. When the expressway opened, travel time between the cities reduced to 2 hours. The expressway initially opened without a posted speed limit. However, in 2009, a speed limit of 80km/h (50mph) was enacted as private vehicles got more powerful and could hit higher speeds more easily. In 2019, a panel of experts agreed to further increase the speed limit to 120km/h (75mph).\n\nIt has six illuminated, ventilated tunnels totaling 5,724 metres. These tunnels were built by the Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd.\n\nToll is collected at Khalapur (Pali Phata) (for the Mumbai-Pune direction) and at Talegaon (for the Pune-Mumbai direction). The toll ranges from for private cars, to for multi-axle trailer trucks. The toll collection data is kept as secret as per the RTI inquiry raised by activist Vivek Velankar. The expressway contract with the Ideal Road Builders (IRB) has been uploaded but the toll collection details are not there. There is no plan to give toll waiver for this expressway.\n\nThe expressway has witnessed a large number of road accidents, attributed to human errors and the large volume of traffic. In the first 10 years since its opening, there were 1,758 accidents with more than 400 fatalities.\n\nThe heavy rains in June and July 2015 caused heavy landslides at Khandala and Adoshi tunnels, which prompted the PWD to remove loose rocks to prevent further landslides. To carry out such works, the expressway near to the Lonavala exit till Khopoli exit was closed from 10 am to 5 pm for 10 days after the landslide near Adoshi tunnel on 18 July 2015 which took three lives and halted the traffic for two months. The boulders fell on both carriageways which caused huge diversion of traffic towards the old highway.\n\nSporadic instances of robbery have been reported on the highway. \n\nMSRDC has decided to extend the expressway from Kalamboli near Panvel till Sion in Mumbai. The extended stretch will reduce commuting time between Mumbai and Pune by 30 minutes. Under the plan, the Sion Panvel Expressway corridor will be widened, with dedicated lanes for heavy and light vehicles. Service roads will be built for entry and exit at various points. It will also involve constructing a brand new bridge over the Thane creek parallel to the current Vashi Mankhurd Bridge. MSRDC will undertake the expansion project. Work was expected to commence in March 2009 and complete by September 2011. The new 22-km link is expected to cost . As of July 2016 no work on this extension has been started.\n\nMSRDC is planning to widen the expressway from current 6 lane to 8 lane. The proposal has been presented in Maharashtra Cabinet for approval.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124966", "title": "Riki-Oh", "text": "Riki-Oh\n\nThe story is about a young man who has learned the art of Qigong from one of Chiang Kai-shek's bodyguards and has become so strong that he can literally punch holes through people and solid objects. It was serialized in \"Business Jump\" from 1987 to 1990 and later published in 12 volumes.\n\nOutside Japan, it was translated and published only in Hong Kong by \"Comicsworld\" in nine volumes.\nThe only difference between the two editions, besides the different number of pages in each volume, is the absence of the short stories \"Kirinji\" and \"N.Y. Dust\", which are unrelated to Riki-Oh, in the Hong Kong edition.\n\nThe story is set in a post-apocalyptic future where global warming and warfare has left the world struggling, while Japan descended into an economic depression in the 1990s which led to increased crime.\n\nThe story centers around Saiga Riki-Oh, blessed with inhuman strength, who, after taking revenge against a yakuza who was responsible for the death of a child who befriended him (in the movie, it was his girlfriend who died), ends up in a maximum security prison owned by a private organization. The story follows Riki and his search for his little brother Saiga Nachi, who bears a Manji symbol on his right hand and also possesses superhuman strength.\n\nRiki-Oh encounters and battles many deadly opponents with either superhuman strength or martial arts during his travel for avenging his mother and finding his brother.\n\nThe main character of the story, he was separated from his younger brother Nachi since childhood and was adopted by the affluent Saiga family. He has a scar in the shape of the Star of David on his right hand which is the source of his great strength and skill. This scar is also a sign that he's destined to overthrow his real father.\nGifted with strong telekinetic powers, he's the younger brother of Riki-Oh from whom he was separated when he was still a child, for which he holds a great deal of resentment for. He has a scar in the shape of a Swastika on his right hand since birth. While Nachi primarily uses his powers for destruction, he is also shown to be able to use them to heal others; he is said to have healed fighters at the Pankration before, and restores a young child's ability to walk during the Cape Arc.\n\nAn android that resembles Riki-Oh in appearance constructed by Obinata. It was sent on a mission to kill Riki-Oh but, after a long fight in a wood, it was accidentally sucked into quicksand with Riki-Oh with the latter surviving after having carved a shelter in the abdomen of the android.\n\nA general armed with an ancient blade infused with qi, Washizaki is an extremely capable fighter. Easily dodged Riki-Oh's punch once, and knocked him out with the weapon. Washizaki came to manipulate him later (thanks to his comrade Otto), but soon found himself at Riki-Oh's mercy and is killed by Nachi.\nA cyborg weighing 300 kg (661.4 lbs) who wasn't viewed by anyone other than Riki-oh as a real person.\nOriginally he was a slave robot constructed from a human body. Becoming this way allowed him to work in a power plant in the Cape, an environment too intense for non-cybernetic humans. After realising that he was only being used by humans for his strength, he led a revolt against The Cape's government, only for his rebellion to be put down. After this, he volunteered as fighter in the Pankration, a death match show, in the hopes that it would give him the strength to get revenge on humanity for what they did to him. Quickly befriending Riki-Oh, he is forced to fight him a short while afterwards, and is saved by the latter after Nachi tries to kill him by dropping the ring on top of his body. Realising his real enemy is Washizaki, he declares his humanity as he charges the general, only to be bisected vertically by his sword. Robotomi is known as in the OVA.\nA scientist at the dependence of Aneyama.\nHe's the chief charged with the accomplishment of a plan whose goal is to accelerate the coming of Judgement Day. In order to achieve this goal, he needs to give birth to the so-called \"child of destruction\", a being created from the union of Nachi's head with the body of Riki-Oh.\nA Chinese man who stopped Riki's suicide attempt in front of his mother's grave, he later became Riki's sensei whom taught him the art of Qigong. He used to be Chiang Kai-shek's elite bodyguard.\nAlso known as . Riki-Oh and Nachi's biological mother, she was executed by hanging for allegedly poisoning thirteen infants twenty-five years ago. Before her death sentence, with help from a friend, Riki and Nachi managed to escape from prison. She foretold that one day her death will be avenged by her son and that evil will never conquer the good. Although Jewish and Japanese, she uses a Chinese name. Her birth name was Hanna, and was raised in Shanghai with her foster family.\n\nRiki-oh was released as two OVAs. The first anime was called \"Riki-oh: The Wall of Hell\" (1989). The second one was titled \"Riki-oh: Child of Destruction\" (1990). The first OVA is a softened retelling of the Prison Arc, and the second, an adaptation of the Cape Arc, focuses on Riki's adventure to find his brother, Nachi, and stop his devilish cult following. Media Blasters acquired the rights to rerelease the two OVAs in the United States on DVD on April 11, 2006, but has since let go of the licenses.\n\nIn 1991, a Hong Kong live-action adaptation titled \"Riki-Oh: The Story of Ricky\" was released. The film was directed by Lam Nai-choi and stars Fan Siu-Wong as Ricky Ho. \"Ricky-Oh: The Story of Ricky\" was first released in the U.S. on DVD in 2000 by Media Blasters under their Tokyo Shock label. Media Blasters released the film on Blu-ray in 2011.\n\n\"Riki-Oh\" was the primary source of inspiration for the design of M. Bison in the \"Street Fighter\" series of fighting games. His design came from the character General Washizaki, one of the main villains of \"Riki-Oh\".\n\n\"Riki-Oh\" has also been cited as an influence on the \"Mortal Kombat\" series of fighting games. Similarities include the gory fatality finishing moves, the resemblance between Ricky and Liu Kang, and the X-ray attacks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2124971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124971", "title": "Reykjavík Summit", "text": "Reykjavík Summit\n\nThe Reykjavík Summit was a summit meeting between U.S. President Ronald Reagan and General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union Mikhail Gorbachev, held in Reykjavík, Iceland, on 11–12 October 1986. The talks collapsed at the last minute, but the progress that had been achieved eventually resulted in the 1987 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty between the United States and the Soviet Union.\n\nSince 1986, Gorbachev had proposed banning all ballistic missiles, but Reagan wanted to continue research on the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), which involved the militarization of outer space. Yet Soviet suspicion of SDI continued, and U.S.–Soviet relations were strained.\n\nAt Reykjavík, Reagan sought to include discussion of human rights, emigration of Soviet Jews and dissidents, and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Gorbachev sought to limit the talks solely to arms control. The Soviets acceded to the \"double-zero\" proposal for eliminating INF weapons from Europe, as initially proposed by President Reagan in November 1981 (INF denoting \"Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces\" as distinct from ICBMs, or intercontinental ballistic missiles). The Soviets also proposed to eliminate 50% of all strategic arms, including ICBMs, and agreed not to include British or French weapons in the count. All this was proposed in exchange for an American pledge not to implement strategic defences for the next ten years, in accordance with SALT I.\n\nThe Americans countered with a proposal to eliminate all ballistic missiles within ten years, but required the right to deploy strategic defences against remaining threats afterwards. Gorbachev then suggested eliminating all nuclear weapons within a decade.\nGorbachev, however, citing a desire to strengthen the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty (ABM Treaty), added the condition that any SDI research be confined to laboratories for the ten-year period in question. Reagan argued that his proposed SDI research was allowed by any reasonable interpretation of the ABM treaty, and that he could not forget the pledge he made to Americans to investigate whether SDI was viable. He also promised to share SDI technology, a promise which Gorbachev said he doubted would be fulfilled, as the Americans would not even share oil-drilling technology.\n\nSome, including Reagan staffer Jack F. Matlock Jr., attribute Reagan’s refusal to compromise on SDI testing to a mistaken belief that the proposed restrictions would be detrimental to the program, whereas in reality, Matlock contends, they would have had little effect on research that was still in its very early stages.\nThe talks finally stalled, President Reagan asking if General Secretary Gorbachev would \"turn down a historic opportunity because of a single word\", referring to his insistence on laboratory testing. Gorbachev asserted that it was a matter of principle, and the summit concluded.\n\nDespite getting unexpectedly close to the potential elimination of all nuclear weapons, the meeting adjourned with no agreement; however, both sides discovered the extent of the concessions the other side was willing to make. Human rights became a subject of productive discussion for the first time. An agreement by Gorbachev to on-site inspections, a continuing American demand which had not been achieved in the Partial Test Ban Treaty of 1963 or the ABM and SALT I pacts of 1972, constituted a significant step forward.\n\nDespite its apparent failure, participants and observers have referred to the summit as an enormous breakthrough which eventually facilitated the INF Treaty (Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty), signed at the Washington Summit on 8 December 1987.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124979", "title": "Margionys", "text": "Margionys\n\nMargionys is a village in Dzukija National Park in Lithuania, located south-west of Marcinkonys.Is located 115 km away from Vilnius, 50 km away from Alytus and at the hand's reach from Druskininkai.\n\nBack in the year 1637, Margionys had 11 households. Number of households in the village increased to 44 by the year 1889, with a total population of 271 individuals at the time. After the plague and wars, the village shrunk, with only two families living in it in 1738. By 1959, the village again had 261 inhabitants. This number has decreased to 98 in 1998 and 81 in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "2124982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124982", "title": "Association for Information and Image Management", "text": "Association for Information and Image Management\n\nThe Association for Information and Image Management or AIIM (pronounced aim) is a nonprofit membership organization. AIIM provides education, market research, and certification for information professionals.\n\nAIIM was founded in 1943 as the National Microfilm Association. It became the \"Association for Information and Image Management\" in 1982. The name would change again in 2018 to the \"Association for Intelligent Information Management,\" maintaining the AIIM acronym.\n\nAIIM was founded in 1943 as the National Microfilm Association. As microfilm fell into disuse, the association changed its name to the Association for Information and Image Management, or \"AIIM\" for short, in 1982. The name change demonstrated a broadening of focus for the association. \nIn 2000, AIIM created the term Enterprise Content Management (ECM), which referred to the strategies, methods, and tools used throughout the lifecycle of an organization's documents, and other content, that relate to the organization's processes. \n\nAt the AIIM Conference 2017, AIIM agreed with a blog post published by Gartner titled \"The Death of ECM and Birth of Content Services\" that \"ECM is now dead (kaput, finite, an ex-market name).\" AIIM announced that the term Enterprise Content Management would be replaced by the term Intelligent Information Management (IIM). This new term would encompass the management of data and content, not just content by itself.\n\nIn 2006, AIIM launched its first training course titled ECM Master Class. Today, AIIM offers training on a variety of information management technologies, including:\n\n\nThese courses are available online and in an in-person classroom setting. At the AIIM Conference 2017, AIIM announced they had trained over 60,000 students.\n\nAIIM set out to create a certification for information professionals as a means of standardizing on the body of knowledge necessary to be successful in this profession. AIIM worked with industry experts and focus groups to define this body of knowledge and launched a certification and test based on it in 2011.\n\nIn July 2016, the Certified Information Professional exam was updated to reflect changes in information management technology and behavior. \n\nBy 2017, more than 1,500 information professionals had earned the CIP.\n\nThe AIIM Conference was officially launched in 2012. The annual event brings together over 600 attendees, consisting mostly of information management end-users, from over 25 countries to see presentations and take part in discussions on the best practices, current trends, and top issues facing the information management industry.\n\nThe AIIM Executive Leadership Council has two delegations, the Americas and European. Each delegation meets twice a year for a think tank summit where participants discuss Information Management-related topics such as the impact of these technologies on the workplace and future organizational transformations.\n\nFindings from the summits are published as AIIM Trendscape reports which forecast the changes the information management industry will incur over the next 24 months and set priorities to take advantage of these changes.\n"}
{"id": "2124986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124986", "title": "SES World Skies", "text": "SES World Skies\n\nSES World Skies was a short lived company formed as a result of the merger between the two SES subsidiaries, \"SES Americom\" and \"SES New Skies\". The company was merged into its parent company, SES S.A. in 2011.\n\nSES Americom traces its roots back to RCA Americom, formed in 1975. RCA Americom was notable for launching the Satcom series of satellites which were instrumental in helping early American cable TV channels gain traction. In 1986, General Electric acquired RCA and renamed the Americom unit to GE Americom. Fifteen years later, in 2001, GE sold its GE Americom unit to SES (Société Européenne des Satellites) for $5 billion in cash and stock.\n\nIn 1998, Intelsat transferred 5 of its 24 satellites to New Skies Satellites N.V., a Dutch start up company formed by Intelsat to help move Intelsat towards privatization.\n\nIn September 2006 the company name was changed from New Skies Satellites to SES New Skies.\n\nIn September 2009, SES New Skies and SES Americom were merged to form SES World Skies.\n\nIn September 2011, SES World Skies and SES Astra were merged into SES S.A. to streamline operations under a single management system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124992", "title": "Northern Essex Community College", "text": "Northern Essex Community College\n\nNorthern Essex Community College (NECC) is a public community college in Essex County, Massachusetts. The college serves residents of the Merrimack Valley and Southern New Hampshire. It has campuses in Haverhill and Lawrence. The college is part of the Massachusetts Higher Education system. More than 6,600 students are enrolled in 70 credit associate degree and certificate programs and another 3,400 take noncredit workforce development and community education classes on campus, and at businesses and community sites across the Merrimack Valley.\n\nNorthern Essex was the first Massachusetts community college to offer Competency Based Education. It is also host to the Northern Essex Community College/Methuen Police Academy, and the Essex County Sheriff's Academy.\n\nIn 2001, Northern Essex became the first federally designated Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI) in all of New England. The NECC student population is 40% Hispanic – most of whom are from the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico.\n\nNorthern Essex offers an active athletic program. It offers men's basketball, baseball, track & field, and cross country. There is also women's volleyball, softball, track & field, and cross country.\n\nIn the fall of 1961, Northern Essex opened its doors to 186 students in the then-former Greenleaf Elementary School on Chadwick Street in Bradford. Most were recent graduates of Haverhill High School as well as high schools in surrounding towns. The college was popular from the start and in 1971 the Haverhill campus was built in the bucolic setting off Route 110. The Dimitry Building in Lawrence opened in 1991, followed by the Louise Haffner Fournier Education Center in 2005, and NECC Riverwalk in 2010. The campus added its newest building, the El-Hefni Allied Health and Technology Building, in 2014.\n\nNorthern Essex Community College offers over 70 associate degrees and certificates, categorized within 14 areas of study:\n\n\nThe college has a rural 106-acre Haverhill Campus (100 Elliott Street) which features seven campus buildings including the David Hartleb Technology Center (built in 2005) and the Behrakis One-Stop Student Center. There are currently four locations in the nearby city of Lawrence: The Dimitry Building located (45 Franklin Street); The Louise Haffner Fournier Education Center (78 Amesbury Street); the Dr. Ibrahim El Hefni Allied Health and Technology Center (414 Common Street); and another facility at 420 Common Street.\n\nNECC is home to \"Parnassus\", a nationally recognized award-winning literary arts magazine in publication since 1965. \"Parnassus\" is a student-run and published literary magazine that is published yearly and which features student work in the form of fiction, poetry, creative nonfiction, art, and photography. Both the 2011 and 2018 issues of \"Parnassus\" were awarded a prestigious Pacemaker Award from the Associated Collegiate Press, placing best in the nation for two-year colleges. From 2009 to 2013, the magazine was awarded First Place in the Eastern Division of the Community College Humanities Association. \"Parnassus\" regularly features special guest authors from the New England area each year, and past guests have included Steve Almond, Andre Dubus III, Stephen King, Gregory Maguire, and Junot Diaz, amongst others.\n\nThe NECC \"Observer\" is the college's award-winning student newspaper. This paper is run by students and previously was awarded the designation of \"College Gold Crown Newspaper\" by the Columbia Scholastic Press Association. All students are encouraged to write for the \"Observer\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2124993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2124993", "title": "Hippolyte Lucas", "text": "Hippolyte Lucas\n\nPierre-Hippolyte Lucas (17 January 1814 – 5 July 1899) was a French entomologist.\n\nLucas was an assistant-naturalist at the Muséum national d'Histoire naturelle. From 1839 to 1842 he studied fauna as part of the scientific Commission on the exploration of Algeria.\n\nHis brother was Prosper Lucas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125007", "title": "Kapiniškiai", "text": "Kapiniškiai\n\nKapiniškiai is an ethnographic village in Lithuania. It is located in the Dzūkija National Park south-west of Marcinkonys. According to the 2001 census, it had 54 residents.\n"}
{"id": "2125024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125024", "title": "Pentarchy", "text": "Pentarchy\n\nPentarchy (from the Greek , \"Pentarchía\", from πέντε \"pénte\", \"five\", and ἄρχειν \"archein\", \"to rule\") is a model of Church organization historically championed in the Eastern Orthodox Church. It was formulated in the laws of Emperor Justinian I (527–565) of the Roman Empire. In the model, the Christian church is governed by the heads (patriarchs) of the five major episcopal sees of the Roman Empire: Rome, Constantinople, Alexandria, Antioch, and Jerusalem.\n\nThe idea came about because of the political and ecclesiastical prominence of these five sees, but the concept of their universal and exclusive authority was firmly tied to the administrative structure of the Roman Empire. The pentarchy was first legally expressed in the legislation of Emperor Justinian I, particularly in \"Novella\" 131. The Quinisext Council of 692 gave it formal recognition and ranked the sees in order of preeminence, but its organization remained dependent on the emperor, as when Leo the Isaurian altered the boundary of patriarchal jurisdiction between Rome and Constantinople. Especially following Quinisext, the pentarchy was at least philosophically accepted in Eastern Orthodoxy, but generally not in the West, which rejected the Council, and the concept of the pentarchy.\n\nThe greater authority of these sees in relation to others was tied to their political and ecclesiastical prominence; all were located in important cities and regions of the Roman Empire and were important centers of the Christian Church. Rome, Alexandria and Antioch were prominent from the time of early Christianity, while Constantinople came to the fore upon becoming the imperial residence in the 4th century. Thereafter it was consistently ranked just after Rome. Jerusalem received a ceremonial place due to the city's importance in the early days of Christianity. Justinian and the Quinisext Council excluded from their pentarchical arrangement churches outside the empire, such as the then-flourishing Church of the East in Sassanid Persia, which they saw as heretical. Within the empire they recognized only the Chalcedonian (or Melchite) incumbents, regarding as illegitimate the non-Chalcedonian claimants of Alexandria and Antioch.\n\nInfighting among the sees, and particularly the rivalry between Rome (which considered itself preeminent over all the church) and Constantinople (which came to hold sway over the other Eastern sees and which saw itself as equal to Rome, with Rome \"first among equals\"), prevented the pentarchy from ever becoming a functioning administrative reality. The Islamic conquests of Alexandria, Jerusalem, and Antioch in the 7th century left Constantinople the only practical authority in the East, and afterward the concept of a \"pentarchy\" retained little more than symbolic significance.\n\nTensions between East and West, which culminated in the East–West Schism, and the rise of powerful, largely independent metropolitan sees and patriarchates outside the Byzantine Empire in Bulgaria, Serbia, and Russia, eroded the importance of the old imperial sees. Today, only the sees of Rome and of Constantinople still hold authority over an entire major Christian church, the first being the head of the Roman Catholic Church and the second having symbolic hegemony over the Orthodox Church.\n\nIn the Apostolic Age (largely the 1st century) the Christian Church comprised an indefinite number of local churches that in the initial years looked to the first church at Jerusalem as its main centre and point of reference. But by the 4th century it had developed a system whereby the bishop of the capital of each civil province (the metropolitan bishop) normally held certain rights over the bishops of the other cities of the province (later called suffragan bishops).\n\nOf the three sees that the First Council of Nicaea was to recognize as having such extraprovincial power, Rome is the one of which most evidence is discerned. The church in Rome intervened in other communities to help resolve conflicts. Pope Clement I did so in Corinth in the end of the 1st century. In the beginning of the 2nd century, Ignatius, Bishop of Antioch, speaks of the Church of Rome as \"presiding in the region of the Romans\" (ἥτις προκάθηται ἐν τόπῳ χωρίου Ῥωμαίων). In the end of that century, Pope Victor I threatened to excommunicate the Eastern bishops who continued to celebrate Easter on 14 Nisan, not on the following Sunday.\n\nThe first records of the exercise of authority by Antioch outside its own province of Syria date from the late 2nd century, when Serapion of Antioch intervened in Rhosus, a town in Cilicia, and also consecrated the third Bishop of Edessa, outside the Roman Empire. Bishops participating in councils held at Antioch in the middle of the 3rd century came not only from Syria, but also from Palestine, Arabia, and eastern Asia Minor. Dionysius of Alexandria spoke of these bishops as forming the \"episcopate of the Orient\", mentioning Demetrian, bishop of Antioch, in the first place.\n\nIn Egypt and the nearby African territories the bishop of Alexandria was at first the only metropolitan. When other metropolitan sees were established there, the bishop of Alexandria became known as the arch-metropolitan. In the mid-3rd century, Heraclas of Alexandria exercised his power as arch-metropolitan by deposing and replacing the Bishop of Thmuis.\n\nThe First Council of Nicaea in 325, in whose sixth canon the title \"metropolitan\" appears for the first time, sanctioned the existing grouping of sees by provinces of the Roman empire, but also recognized that three sees, Alexandria, Antioch and Rome, already had authority over wider areas. In speaking of Antioch, it also spoke generically about \"other provinces\".\n\nWhile the Council did not specify the extent of the authority of Rome or Antioch, it clearly indicated the area, even outside its own province of Egypt, over which Alexandria had authority, by referring to \"the ancient customs of Egypt, Libya and Pentapolis, according to which the bishop of Alexandria has authority over all these places\".\n\nImmediately after mentioning the special traditions of wider authority of Rome, Alexandria and Antioch, the same canon speaks of the organization under metropolitans, which was also the subject of two previous canons. In this system, the bishop of the capital of each Roman province (the \"metropolitan\") possessed certain rights with regard to the bishops of other cities of the province (\"suffragans\").\n\nIn the interpretation of John H. Erickson, the Council saw the special powers of Rome and Alexandria, whose bishops were in effect metropolitans over several provinces, as exceptions to the general rule of organization by provinces, each with its own metropolitan. After the mention of the special traditions of Rome, Alexandria, Antioch and other provinces, canon 6 goes on immediately to speak of the metropolitan form of organization, which was also the topic of the two preceding canons.\n\nThis Council's recognition of the special powers of Rome, Alexandria and Antioch served as the basis of the theory of the three Petrine sees (Rome and Antioch were said to be founded by Saint Peter and Alexandria by his disciple Mark the Evangelist) that was later upheld, especially in Rome and Alexandria, in opposition to the theory of the five Pentarchy sees.\n\nIn its seventh canon, the Council attributed special honour, but not metropolitan authority, to the Bishop of Jerusalem, which was then called Aelia, and was in the province (Syria Palaestina) whose capital was Caesarea.\n\nThe First Council of Constantinople (381) decreed in a canon of disputed validity: \"The Bishop of Constantinople, however, shall have the prerogative of honour after the Bishop of Rome; because Constantinople is New Rome.\" This \"prerogative of honour\" did not entail jurisdiction outside his own \"diocese\". The Emperor Theodosius I, who called the Council, divided the eastern Roman Empire into five \"dioceses\": Egypt (under Alexandria), the East (under Antioch), Asia (under Ephesus), Pontus (under Caesarea Cappadociae), and Thrace (originally under Heraclea, later under Constantinople).\n\nThe Council also decreed: \"The bishops are not to go beyond their dioceses to churches lying outside of their bounds, nor bring confusion on the churches; but let the Bishop of Alexandria, according to the canons, alone administer the affairs of Egypt; and let the bishops of the East manage the East alone, the privileges of the Church in Antioch, which are mentioned in the canons of Nicea, being preserved; and let the bishops of the Asian Diocese administer the Asian affairs only; and the Pontic bishops only Pontic matters; and the Thracian bishops only Thracian affairs.\" Jerusalem was not put at the head of any of the five dioceses.\n\nThe transfer of the capital of the empire from Rome to Constantinople in 330 enabled the latter to free itself from its ecclesiastical dependency on Heraclea and in little more than half a century to obtain this recognition of next-after-Rome ranking from the first Council held within its walls. Alexandria's objections to Constantinople's promotion, which led to a constant struggle between the two sees in the first half of the 5th century, were supported, at least until the Fourth Council of Constantinople of 869–870, by Rome, which proposed the theory that the most important sees were the three Petrine ones, with Rome in first place.\n\nThe Western bishops took no part in the First Council of Constantinople, and it was only in the mid-6th century that the Latin Church recognized it as ecumenical.\n\nThe Council of Ephesus (431) defended the independence of the Church in Cyprus against the supra-metropolitan interference by Antioch, but in the same period Jerusalem succeeded in gaining supra-metropolitan power over the three provinces of Palestine.\n\nAfter the Council of Chalcedon (451), the position of the Pentarchy's Patriarchate of Alexandria was weakened by a division in which the great majority of its Christian population followed the form of Christianity that its opponents called Monophysitism.\n\nThe Council of Chalcedon (451), which marked a serious defeat of Alexandria, gave recognition, in its 28th canon, to Constantinople's extension of its power over Pontus and Asia in addition to Thrace. The Council justified this decision on the grounds that \"the Fathers rightly granted privileges to the throne of old Rome, because it was the royal city\", and that the First Council of Constantinople, \"actuated by the same consideration, gave equal privileges to the most holy throne of New Rome, justly judging that the city which is honoured with the Sovereignty and the Senate, and enjoys equal privileges with the old imperial Rome, should in ecclesiastical matters also be magnified as she is, and rank next after her\".\n\nPope Leo I, whose delegates were absent when this resolution was passed and who protested against it, recognized the council as ecumenical and confirmed its doctrinal decrees, but rejected canon 28 on the ground that it contravened the sixth canon of Nicaea and infringed the rights of Alexandria and Antioch. By that time Constantinople, as the permanent residence of the emperor, had enormous influence.\n\nCanon 9 of the Council declared: \"If a bishop or clergyman should have a difference with the metropolitan of the province, let him have recourse to the Exarch of the Diocese, or to the throne of the Imperial City of Constantinople, and there let it be tried.\" This has been interpreted as conferring on the see of Constantinople a greater privilege than what any council ever gave Rome (Johnson) or as of much lesser significance than that (Hefele).\n\nThus in little more than a hundred years the structural arrangement by provinces envisaged by the First Council of Nicaea was, according to John H. Erickson, transformed into a system of five large divisions headed by the bishops of Rome, Constantinople, Alexandria, Antioch, and Jerusalem. He does not use for these divisions the term \"patriarchate\" because the term \"patriarch\" as a uniform term for the heads of the divisions came into use only in the time of Emperor Justinian I in the following century, and because there is little suggestion that the divisions were regarded as quasi-sovereign entities, as patriarchates are in Eastern Orthodox ecclesiology. Because of the decision of the Council of Ephesus, Cyprus maintained its independence from the Antioch division, and the arrangement did not apply outside the empire, where separate \"catholicates\" developed in Mesopotamia and Armenia.\nThe basic principles of the pentarchy theory, which, according to the Byzantinist historian Milton V. Anastos, \"reached its highest development in the period from the eleventh century to the middle of the fifteenth\", go back to the 6th-century Justinian I, who often stressed the importance of all five of the patriarchates mentioned, especially in the formulation of dogma.\n\nJustinian was the first to use (in 531) the title of \"patriarch\" to designate exclusively the bishops of Rome, Constantinople, Alexandria, Antioch, and Jerusalem, setting the bishops of these five sees on a level superior to that of metropolitans.\n\nJustinian's scheme for a \"renovatio imperii\" (renewal of the empire) included, as well as ecclesiastical matters, a rewriting of Roman law in the Corpus Juris Civilis and an only partially successful reconquest of the West, including the city of Rome.\n\nWhen in 680 Constantine IV called the Third Council of Constantinople, he summoned the metropolitans and other bishops of the jurisdiction of Constantinople; but since there were representatives of all five bishops to whom Justinian had given the title of Patriarch, the Council declared itself ecumenical. This has been interpreted as signifying that a council is ecumenical if attended by representatives of all five patriarchs.\n\nThe first Council classified (in the East, but not in the West, which did not participate in it) as ecumenical that mentioned together all five sees of the pentarchy in the order indicated by Justinian I is the Council in Trullo of 692, which was called by Justinian II: \"Renewing the enactments by the 150 Fathers assembled at the God-protected and imperial city, and those of the 630 who met at Chalcedon; we decree that the see of Constantinople shall have equal privileges with the see of Old Rome, and shall be highly regarded in ecclesiastical matters as that is, and shall be second after it. After Constantinople shall be ranked the See of Alexandria, then that of Antioch, and afterwards the See of Jerusalem.\"\n\nThe 7th and 8th centuries saw an increasing attribution of significance to the pentarchy as the five pillars of the Church upholding its infallibility: it was held to be impossible that all five should at the same time be in error. They were compared to the five senses of the human body, all equal and entirely independent of each other, and none with ascendancy over the others.\n\nThe Byzantine view of the pentarchy had a strongly anti-Roman orientation, being put forward against the Roman claim to the final word on all Church matters and to the right to judge even the patriarchs. This was not a new claim: in about 446 Pope Leo I had expressly claimed authority over the whole Church: \"The care of the universal Church should converge towards Peter's one seat, and nothing anywhere should be separated from its Head.\" In a synod held in Rome in 864, Pope Nicholas I declared that no ecumenical council could be called without authorization by Rome; and, until Pope Hadrian II (867–872), none of the Popes recognized the legitimacy of all four eastern patriarchs, but only those of Alexandria and Antioch.\n\nThe principal adviser of the two last-named popes, Anastasius Bibliothecarius, accepted the Byzantine comparison of the pentarchy with the five senses of the human body, but added the qualification that the patriarchate of Rome, which he likened to the sense of sight, ruled the other four.\n\nWhile the theory of the pentarchy is still upheld by the Greek Orthodox Church successor to the Byzantine Church, it is questioned by other Eastern Orthodox, who view it as \"a highly artificial theory, never implemented until the great 5c. debates over Christology had removed the Alexandrian (Coptic) Church from communion and fatally split the weakened Church of Antioch. In addition the theory's insistence on the sovereignty of these five patriarchs was at least debatable\".\n\nBy 661, Muslim Arabs had taken over the territories assigned to the patriarchates of Alexandria, Antioch and Jerusalem, which thereafter were never more than partially and temporarily recovered. In 732, Leo III the Isaurian, in revenge for the opposition of Pope Gregory III to the emperor's iconoclast policies, transferred Sicily, Calabria and Illyria from the patriarchate of Rome (whose jurisdiction until then extended as far east as Thessalonica) to that of Constantinople. The Constantinople patriarchate, after expanding eastward at the time of the Council of Chalcedon to take in Pontus and Asia, which still remained under the emperor's control, thus expanded equally to the west, and was practically coextensive with the empire.\n\nNearly all the Byzantine writers who treated the subject of the pentarchy assumed that Constantinople, as the seat of the ruler of the empire and therefore of the world, was the highest among the patriarchates and, like the emperor, had the right to govern them. This feeling was further intensified after the East–West Schism in 1054, which reduced the pentarchy to a tetrarchy, but it existed long before that. The idea that with the transfer of the imperial capital from Rome to Constantinople primacy in the Church was also transferred is found in undeveloped form as early as John Philoponus (c. 490 – c. 570); it was enunciated in its most advanced form by Photios I of Constantinople (c. 810 – c. 893), and was embraced by his successors, including Callistus Ι (1350–1353, 1355–1363), Philotheus (1353–1354, 1364–1376), and Nilus (1379–1388).\n\nThus, for the Byzantines of the first half of the second millennium, the government of the Christian Church was a primacy belonging to the patriarchate of Constantinople, which however was choosing not to insist on it with regard to the west. This was illustrated by Nilus Doxapatris, who in 1142–43 insisted strongly on the primacy of the Church of Constantinople, which he regarded as inherited from Rome because of the transfer of the capital and because Rome had fallen into the hands of the barbarians, but who expressly restricted Byzantine authority to the other three eastern patriarchates. Patriarch Callistus, mentioned above, did the same about two hundred years later. \"In other words, Rome was definitely excluded from the Constantinopolitan sphere of influence and put on a par with Constantinople, as can be inferred from Nilus's statement that the bishops of Constantinople and Rome, and only these two, were called oecumenical patriarchs.\"\n\nThe Patriarchate of Constantinople recognized the patriarchal status of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church (Metropolitanate of Preslav) in 927, which thus became the first autocephalous Patriarchate outside the empire recognized by the Orthodox Church. (Recognition had not been granted to the patriarchates of the Church of the East and Oriental Orthodoxy.) The Georgian Orthodox and Apostolic Church became autocephalous in 486 and was elevated to Patriarchate in 1010. The Serbian Orthodox Church became autocephalous in 1219, and was elevated to Patriarchate in 1346 (although deemed schismatic at first). The Russian Orthodox Church (Metropolitanate of Moscow) was recognized as elevated to Patriarchate in 1589.\n\nToday the Eastern Orthodox Church includes nine patriarchates: Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople; Patriarchate of Alexandria; Patriarchate of Antioch; Bulgarian Patriarchate; Georgian Patriarchate; Patriarchate of Jerusalem; Russian Patriarchate; Romanian Patriarchate; Serbian Patriarchate.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church has partially recognized the Pentarchy, as an equal Pentarchy with an order of precedence starting with Rome (immediately followed by Constantinople). Oriental Orthodoxy still holds to the theory of the three Petrine sees. The Assyrian Church of the East does not recognize the pentarchy.\n\nThe following are the current archbishops of the Pentarchal sees, along with the churches that recognize them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125043", "title": "Athenodoros Cordylion", "text": "Athenodoros Cordylion\n\nAthenodoros Cordylion (or Athenodorus, ; fl. early-mid 1st century BC) was a Stoic philosopher, born in Tarsus. He was the keeper of the library at Pergamon, where he was known to cut out passages from books on Stoic philosophy if he disagreed with them:\n\nIn his old age, Athenodorus relocated to Rome, where he lived with Cato the Younger until his death.\n"}
{"id": "2125054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125054", "title": "John Leslie, 1st Duke of Rothes", "text": "John Leslie, 1st Duke of Rothes\n\nJohn Leslie (c. 163027 July 1681), son of John Leslie, 6th Earl of Rothes, was the 7th Earl of Rothes and 1st Duke of Rothes. According to tradition, he was a descendant of Princess Beatrix, sister of King Malcolm III of Scotland. His family had intermarried with both the Stuarts and the Bruces.\n\nLeslie was born in 1630. His mother died when he was ten, and on his father's death in the following year he succeeded to the peerage. He was placed under the care of John Lindsay, 17th Earl of Crawford, to whose daughter he was betrothed. On account of the wars his education was much neglected. \"He had,\" says Burnet, \"no advantage of education, no sort of literature; nor had he travelled abroad; all in him was mere nature\". \n\nHe was captured at the Battle of Worcester in 1651, his estates were sequestrated by the parliament, and on 18 September he was committed to the Tower of London. On 18 July 1652 his liberty was extended to ten miles from the city of London. On 14 December 1652 he was permitted, on heavy security, to go to Scotland on business for three months; similar permission was granted in 1653 and 1654, and in 1654–5 he was permitted to stay six months at Newcastle. On 8 January 1656/7 he obtained leave, owing, it is told, to the influence of Elizabeth Murray, countess of Dysart, to visit Scotland again. In January 1658 he was, however, committed to the castle of Edinburgh by Cromwell, to prevent a duel between him and Viscount Morpeth, who was jealous of the attentions which Rothes paid his wife; he was released in the following December.\n\nLeslie was one of the first noblemen to wait on Charles II on his arrival from Breda in 1660, and on 20 December was appointed colonel of one of the Fife regiments of horse. King Charles II made him the Lord High Treasurer of Scotland, Lord Keeper of the Great Seal of Scotland, Lord Chancellor of Scotland for life (in 1667), and President of the Privy Council of Scotland. He carried the sword of state at the coronation of Charles II.\n\nIn 1663, when he succeeded his father-in-law as Lord High Treasurer, he was sworn a privy councillor of England, and was appointed Captain of the troop of lifeguards and general of the forces in Scotland. He also received a re-grant in 1663 of the earldom of Rothes, together with the title of Lord Leslie and Ballinbreich. He was considered over-zealous in his persecution of Covenanters and insufficiently attentive to the defence of Leith against attack by the Dutch. On 16 April 1667 he was deprived of all his offices, but in October was made lord chancellor for life. Through the intervention of the Duke of York, he was on 29 May 1680 created Duke of Rothes, Marquis of Balleobreich, Earl of Leslie, Viscount of Lugton, Lord Auchmutie and Caskiebery.\n\nHe married Anne Crawford-Lindsay, the daughter of John Lindsay, 17th Earl of Crawford. He built the Palace of Leslie (also known as Leslie House), which nearly burnt completely in a fire on Christmas Day 1763.\nJohn died at Holyrood Palace in Edinburgh on 27 July 1681. \nHe was awarded a state funeral. \nThe funeral procession was more elaborate and impressive than either Wellington's or Churchill's. \nIt stretched over seventeen miles (27 km) long. \nThe cost of whole regiments of ceremonial guards, soldiers, banners, trumpets, heralds and coaches effectively ruined the family finances forever, and he left behind a huge debt to his daughter, Margaret Leslie.\n\nHe had two daughters: \nAs he had no male issue, the Dukedom of Rothes became extinct, the Earldom only being passed to his daughter.\n\nAttribution:\n\n"}
{"id": "2125058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125058", "title": "2005 in Algeria", "text": "2005 in Algeria\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 2005 in Algeria.\n\n\nJune 28, 2005 (Tuesday)\n\nJune 27, 2005 (Monday)\n\nJune 26, 2005 (Sunday)\n\nJune 25, 2005 (Saturday)\n\nJune 24, 2005 (Friday)\n"}
{"id": "2125060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125060", "title": "Étienne Mulsant", "text": "Étienne Mulsant\n\nMartial Étienne Mulsant (2 March 1797, Marnand, Rhône – 4 November 1880) was a French entomologist and ornithologist.\n\nInitially employed in commerce, Mulsant wrote writes \"Lettres à Julie sur l'entomologie, suivies d'une description méthodique de la plus grande partie des insectes de France, ornées de planches\"... (\"Letters to Julie on entomology, followed by a methodical description of the greatest part of the insects of France with, decorated plates...\"), dedicated to his future wife, Julie Ronchivole.\n\nIn 1817, he became mayor of Saint-Jean-la-Bussière, where his parents had property. In 1827 he became, following his father and grandfather, a justice of the peace. He settled in Lyon in 1830 and in 1839, he obtained a post of assistant librarian then, in 1843, a post of professor of natural history in a college; a post he occupied until 1873.\n\nIn 1840, he published \"Histoire naturelle des Coléoptères de France\", (\"Natural History of the Coleoptera of France\") with various other entomologists : Antoine Casimir Marguerite Eugène Foudras (1783–1859) and Claudius Rey (1817–1895), his former pupil. He also had as pupils Francisque Guillebeau (1821–1897) and Valéry Mayet (1839–1909). His 1846 and 1850 monographs on the subject formed the basis for much of modern ladybug taxonomy.\n\nWith Jean Baptist Édouard Verreaux (1810–1868), he wrote \"Histoire naturelle des punaises de France\", (\"Natural History of the bugs of France\") between 1865 and 1879. He also published school texts on zoology and geology. He was, for many years, president of the \"Société linnéenne de Lyon\". He was also interested in birds, publishing several studies and taking part in the work of the commission on hunting small birds. In 1868, he wrote \"Lettres à Julie sur l'ornithologie\" (\"Letters to Julie on ornithology\"), a splendid work on the \"oiseaux-mouches de 1874 à 1877\".\n\nA monumental research work was published by Etienne Mulsant, titled \"Histoire Naturelle des Oiseaux-Mouches, ou Colibris constituant la famille des Trochilïdes\" (published in 1874-77). It contained 4 text volumes, with a separate Atlas of colored plates in imperial quarto size (lg.4to) by Lyon-Geneve-Bale. The Atlas is illustrated with 120 exceptional, fine, large hand-colored lithograph plates of the known species of hummingbirds. Copies of this illustrated Atlas on hummingbirds are extremely rare.\n\nThe \"hummingbird of Mulsant\", \"Acestrura mulsanti\" (now \"Chaetocercus mulsant\"), was named for him by Jules Bourcier in 1842. The ladybug genus \"Mulsantina\" is also named in his honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125075", "title": "The Fool's Progress", "text": "The Fool's Progress\n\nThe Fool's Progress is a novel written by American author Edward Abbey (1927–1989), published in 1988.\n\nThe book is a semi-autobiographical novel about a man, Henry Holyoak Lightcap, who refuses to submit to modern commercial society. Unlike Abbey's most famous fiction work, \"The Monkey Wrench Gang\", which concerns the use of sabotage to protest environmentally damaging activities in the American Southwest, \"The Fool's Progress\" focuses on the journey of Henry across America. Edward Abbey considered it to be his \"fat masterpiece.\" It was the final book published in his lifetime; his final novel was \"Hayduke Lives!\".\n\nAfter Henry Lightcap's third wife storms out of the house and his life, boozing, misanthropic anarchist Lightcap shoots his refrigerator and decides to drive across the country journeying to his childhood home in West Virginia.\n\nIn a review for \"The New York Times\", Howard Coale said it was \"a particularly self-involved novel\" and while praising the sentimental moments of the book, he notes \"Unfortunately they are drowned out to almost a murmur by the harpings of a slightly malevolent and self-indulgent voice.\" Genaro Gonzalez, writing for the \"Los Angeles Times\", gave it \"an eager recommendation\" \"Publishers Weekly\" gave it a positive review calling it \"an epic exploration of Abbey's passionate loves and hatreds.\"\n"}
{"id": "2125076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125076", "title": "American Council of Learned Societies", "text": "American Council of Learned Societies\n\nThe American Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), founded in 1919, is a private, nonprofit federation of 75 scholarly organizations in the humanities and related social sciences. It is best known for its fellowship competitions which provide a range of opportunities for scholars in the humanities and related social sciences at all career stages, from graduate students to distinguished professors to independent scholars, working with a number of disciplines and methodologies in the U.S. and abroad.\n\nThe federation was created in 1919 to represent the United States in the \"Union Académique Internationale\" (International Union of Academies). The founders of ACLS, representatives of 13 learned societies, believed that a federation of scholarly organizations (dedicated to excellence in research, and most with open membership) was the best combination of U.S. democracy and intellectual aspirations. According to the council's constitution, its mission was advancing humanistic studies and social sciences and maintaining and strengthening national societies dedicated to those studies.\n\nSince its founding, ACLS has provided the humanities and related social sciences with leadership, opportunities for innovation, and national and international representation. The Council's many activities have at their core the practice of scholarly self-governance. Central to ACLS throughout its history have been its programs of fellowships and grants aiding research. ACLS made its first grants, totaling $4,500, in 1926; in 2012, ACLS awarded over $15 million in fellowship stipends and other awards to more than 320 scholars in the United States and abroad. All ACLS awards are made through rigorous peer review by specially appointed committees of scholars from throughout the United States and, in some programs, abroad. During the late 1950s, the council encouraged Hans Wehr in his writing of the first English edition of his \"Dictionary of Modern Written Arabic\" (1962).\n\nThe executive directors of the ACLS member societies meet in a Conference of Administrative Officers (CAO); before 1988, this was the Conference of Secretaries. At its first meeting in 1925 the conference had 11 members, including Frederic Ogg of the American Political Science Association and Ernest Burgess of the American Sociological Society (now the American Sociological Association). The goal of the first meeting, and of every meeting since, was \"the promotion of closer relations between the associations of humanists [through] a conference in which the secretaries, or principal executive officers, of its constituent societies could make each other’s acquaintance, explain to each other the character, aims and activities of their respective organizations, and discuss, in the light of their various experiences, the many common problems of their societies.\"\n\nIn addition to peer review, the ACLS has organized committees to research promising fields of study. The concept of organizing expertise around a cultural region grew out of the council's early work in Far Eastern and Slavic studies. After World War II, when the practical need for such competence was evident, the ACLS and the Social Science Research Council developed African, Asian, Latin American, Near and Middle Eastern, Slavic, and East and West European studies.\n\nIn 1927 the ACLS Committee on Research in Native American Languages, under the leadership of Franz Boas and Edward Sapir, began in 1927 to \"secure an adequate record of Indian languages and dialects.\" The Committee on a Journal of Medieval Studies, begun in 1924, founded the journal \"Speculum\". The Committee on the History of Ideas, which included Richard McKeon and Arthur Oncken Lovejoy, created the \"Journal of the History of Ideas\". Lovejoy wrote in the journal’s first issue, \"The processes of the human mind, in the individual or group, which manifest themselves in history, do not run in the enclosed channels corresponding to the officially established divisions of university faculties.\" At the founding conference of the Committee on Negro Studies in 1940 Ralph Bunche said, \"We cannot ignore the importance of making clear to ourselves the scope of our interest in terms of the very broad social implications of our deliberations and resources.\"\n\nSince the introduction of new research technology, the ACLS has helped scholars explore the impact of new technologies on their fields. In 1964 the council developed a grant and fellowship program to encourage computer use in humanistic research, which continues in its Digital Innovation Fellowships. \"Our Cultural Commonwealth\", the 2006 report by the ACLS Commission on Cyberinfrastructure for the Humanities and Social Sciences, recommended digital humanities using new forms of research, reading and writing.\n\nThe ACLS has an interest in the problems of scholarly publication and has conducted a survey of publication needs, established a publication service to advise scholars on communicating research and aided scholars with subsidies and publication. The ACLS-sponsored National Enquiry into the Production and Dissemination of Scholarly Knowledge investigated all aspects of the dissemination of humanistic scholarship from 1974 to 1979. In 1979 it presented a report, \"Scholarly Communication: The Report of the National Enquiry\", published by the Johns Hopkins University Press and operated its Office of Scholarly Communication and Technology in Washington, D.C. until 1984. Today, the ACLS Humanities E-Book collection focuses on how digital innovations can enhance scholarly communication.\n\nBy bringing scholars together as scholars rather than as specialists, the ACLS advocates for the humanities in public forums and policy arenas. The council's role in establishing (in 1964) and reauthorizing (in 1985) the National Endowment for the Humanities is an example.\n\nWhile continuing to represent the U.S. in the \"Union Académique Internationale\", the ACLS has participated in international scholarly exchange. From 1961 to 1992, its American Studies Program aided overseas scholars specializing in the study of the U.S. The council and other members of the Associated Board of Research Councils founded the Council for International Exchange of Scholars, which administers the graduating-senior Fulbright Program. In 1992 the United States Information Agency asked the ACLS to reinstitute the Fulbright Program in Vietnam, operated by the U.S. Embassy in Hanoi. The ACLS Center for Educational Exchange with Vietnam offers fellowship and study opportunities to Vietnamese scholars. In 1966 the ACLS, the Social Science Research Council and the National Academy of Sciences founded the Committee on Scholarly Communication with China, which maintains an office in Beijing to assist American schools with programs in that country. The ACLS has extended its support of research to scholars in the former USSR through the ACLS Humanities Program in Belarus, Russia and Ukraine, and in Africa through its African Humanities Program.\n\nIn June 1999 under its President John D'Arms, ACLS received a $3-million, 5-year grant from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation to initiate The History E-Book Project. In October 1999, Eileen Gardiner and Ronald G. Musto of Italica Press became the project directors working in collaboration with the Scholarly Publishing Office of the University of Michigan Library and with New York University Press. Three years later and two years ahead of schedule, on September 1, 2002, the History E-Book Project website launched online with over 500 titles. These had been reviewed and recommended by historians and scholarly societies and were often award-winning books in different area specialties. “HEB continued to grow and to adjust accordingly, becoming self-sufficient in 2005, garnering attention and a supportive constituency among scholars, presses, libraries, and learned societies.” HEB mission expanded to include all the humanities disciplines and was renamed ACLS Humanities E-Book. In September 2009, the Institute of Historical Research in London called HEB “one of the best—if not the best—electronically\naccessible sites in the humanities.”\n\nAt the end of 2019, ACLS transferred the management and administration of Humanities E-Book to the University of Michigan, where this online collection of over 5,400 books of high quality in the humanities and related social sciences is accessible through institutional subscription.\n\nThe ACLS' organizational structure has experienced few major changes during the council’s existence. Most notable is the growth in the number of member societies, from 13 to 71. As the number of societies increased, it became impossible for a council with two representatives of each member to govern effectively. In 1947 a council-elected board of directors was created, and the number of delegates from each society was reduced to one. Another change occurred in 1957; the council moved its headquarters from Washington to New York and appointed Frederick Burkhardt its first president, signaling a new determination to place scholarship at the center of public culture. The ACLS was incorporated in the District of Columbia in 1924, receiving a congressional charter in 1982.\n\nFor the fiscal year ending June 30, 2017, the ACLS reported an endowment of US$120 million. During the same period the institution distributed about US$15.9 million in grants and fellowships.\n\nThe ACLS archives are in the Manuscript Division of the Library of Congress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125099", "title": "Franz Steindachner", "text": "Franz Steindachner\n\nFranz Steindachner (11 November 1834 in Vienna – 10 December 1919 in Vienna) was an Austrian zoologist, ichthyologist, and herpetologist. He published over 200 papers on fishes and over 50 papers on reptiles and amphibians Steindachner described hundreds of new species of fish and dozens of new amphibians and reptiles. At least seven species of reptile have been named after him.\n\nBeing interested in natural history, Steindachner took up the study of fossil fishes on the recommendation of his friend Eduard Suess (1831-1914). In 1860 he was appointed to the position of director of the fish collection at the Naturhistorisches Museum, a position which had remained vacant since the death of Johann Jakob Heckel (1790-1857).\n\nSteindachner's reputation as an ichthyologist grew, and in 1868 he was invited by Louis Agassiz (1807-1873) to accept a position at the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University. Steindachner took part in the Hassler Expedition of 1871–1872 (a journey that circumnavigated South America from Boston to San Francisco). In 1874 he returned to Vienna, and in 1887 was appointed director of the zoological department of the Naturhistorisches Museum. In 1898 he was promoted to director of the museum.\n\nHe traveled extensively during his career, his research trips taking him throughout the Iberian Peninsula, the Red Sea, the Canary Islands, Senegal, Latin America, et al. In his zoological studies, his interests were mainly from a systematic and faunistic standpoint.\n\nAmong his better known works in ichthyology are \"Ichthyologische Notizen\" (1863, published over 8 editions), \"Ichthyologische Beiträge\" (1874), and \"Beiträge zur Kenntniss der Flussfische Sudamerikas\" (1879), the latter work dealing with river fish of South America. In the field of herpetology, he published \"Die schlangen und eidechsen der Galapagos-inseln\" (Snakes and lizards of the Galapagos Islands, 1875).\n\nFrom 1875, he was member of the Vienna Academy of Sciences. In 1892 he became a member of the German Academy of Sciences Leopoldina.\n\n\nAlso, Steindachner is commemorated in the scientific names of eight species and one subspecies of reptiles: \"Amphisbaena steindachneri, Chelodina steindachneri, Lucasium steindachneri, Kinosternon subrubrum steindachneri, Lioscincus steindachneri, Micrurus steindachneri, Palea steindachneri, Phrynocephalus steindachneri\", and \"Pseudalsophis steindachneri\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2125111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125111", "title": "Varnado Simpson", "text": "Varnado Simpson\n\nPrivate First Class Varnado Simpson (October 7, 1948 – May 4, 1997) was an American soldier of the US Army who participated in the My Lai Massacre, murdering, raping, torturing and mutilating Vietnamese civilians. He was wracked with remorse after the killings, and eventually committed suicide nearly 30 years later.\n\nSimpson joined the U.S. Army in 1967, at the age of 18, and the following year was posted to South Vietnam. He was assigned to Second Platoon, Charlie Company, under the command of Captain Ernest Medina.\n\nUnder Captain Medina's command, Simpson participated in the massacre at the village of My Lai, where he reportedly killed at least eight unarmed villagers, including a mother and her baby. \"TIME\" magazine quotes him as stating: \"I shot them, the lady and the little boy. He was about two years old.\" His official statement on the event was succinct: \"I killed about eight people that day. I shot a couple of old men who were running away. I also shot some women and children. I would shoot them as they ran out of huts or tried to hide.\" Simpsons words from this interview were later reinterpreted by Robert Lowell in his poem \"Women, Children, Babies, Cows, Cats\" \n\nIn 1977, Simpson's 10-year-old son was accidentally killed by a random shot fired by some neighborhood teenagers. Simpson recalled the day later by stating, \"He died in my arms. And when I looked at him, his face was like the same face of the child that I had killed. And I said: This is the punishment for killing the people that I killed.\" Simpson's daughter died of meningitis a few years before he himself committed suicide.\n\nIn 1982, he was admitted to a Veterans Affairs hospital in Jackson, Mississippi, where he was diagnosed with chronic and severe post-traumatic stress disorder after recounting his actions in the village, as well as his recurring fears that the dead villagers would come back to wreak vengeance upon him.\n\nIn 1989, in an interview for the British documentary \"Four Hours in My Lai\", Simpson claimed to have killed about 25 people and added scalping and bodily mutilation to his description of events. \"The baby’s face was half gone, my mind just went…and I just started killing. Old men, women, children, water buffaloes, everything… I just killed… That day in My Lai, I was personally responsible for killing about 25 people. Personally. Men, women. From shooting them, to cutting their throats, scalping them, to...cutting off their hands and cutting out their tongues. I did it.\", he said. At this point, Simpson was heavily medicated for his severe psychological disorders, and it is unclear which memories of the events are truthful or accurate.\n\nFor years, Simpson had lived with all his doors and windows locked and shuttered.\n\nAfter three unsuccessful attempts, Simpson took his own life in his home on Sunday, May 4, 1997, at the age of 48, with a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head.\n"}
{"id": "2125115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125115", "title": "Eugène Simon", "text": "Eugène Simon\n\nEugène Louis Simon (30 April 1848 – 17 November 1924) was a French naturalist who worked particularly on insects and spiders, but also on birds and plants. He is by far the most prolific spider taxonomist in history, describing over 4,000 species.\n\nHis most significant work was \"Histoire Naturelle des Araignées\" (1892–1903), an encyclopedic treatment of the spider genera of the world. It was published in two volumes of more than 1000 pages each, and the same number of drawings by Simon. Working at the Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle in Paris, it took Simon 11 years to complete, while working at the same time on devising a taxonomic scheme that embraced the known taxa. Simon described a total of 4,650 species, and as of 2013 about 3,790 species are still considered valid. The International Society of Arachnology offers a Simon Award recognising lifetime achievement.\n\nThe Eocene fossil spider species \"Cenotextricella simoni\" was named in his honor.\n\nHe also had an interest in hummingbirds. He described several species and races as well as creating the genera \"Anopetia\", \"Stephanoxis\", \"Haplophaedia\" and \"Taphrolesbia\". He is commemorated by race \"simoni\" of the swallow-tailed hummingbird (\"Eupetomena macroura\"). His seminal work on hummingbirds was \"Histoire Naturelle des Trochilidae\" in 1921.\n\nSimon's contributions to botany formed a relatively minor part of his work, and he should not be confounded with the French botanist Eugène Ernest Simon (1871–1967), abbreviation E.Simon.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125124", "title": "Paul Dresher", "text": "Paul Dresher\n\nPaul Joseph Dresher (born January 8, 1951 in Los Angeles) is an American composer. Dresher received his B.A. in music from the University of California, Berkeley and his M.A. in composition from the University of California, San Diego, where he studied with Robert Erickson, Roger Reynolds, Pauline Oliveros, and Bernard Rands.\n\nHe also studied Ghanaian drumming with C. K. and Kobla Ladzekpo, Hindustani classical music with Nikhil Banerjee, and Balinese and Javanese music.\n\nDresher's music has been variously described as minimalist and postminimalist. Dresher himself, poking fun at the latter term (which he perceives as fairly meaningless), has referred to himself as a \"pre-maximalist,\" hence the name of his record label, MinMax.\n\nDresher served on the Board of Directors for the American Music Center from 1994 through 2000.\n\nRecordings of Dresher's works are available on the Lovely Music, New World, CRI, Music and Arts, O.O. Discs, BMG/Catalyst, MinMax, Starkland, and New Albion labels.\n\nHe was the recipient of a 2006 Guggenheim fellowship.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125131", "title": "Luny Tunes", "text": "Luny Tunes\n\nLuny Tunes are a reggaeton production duo consisting of Francisco Saldaña (Luny) and Víctor Cabrera (Tunes) who have been known for creating unique musical rhythms for some of the most popular reggaeton artists since the early 2000s.\n\nFrancisco Saldaña was born on June 23, 1979, and Víctor Cabrera was born on April 12, 1981. Originally from Lynn, Massachusetts and native to the Dominican Republic, they originally started working at the Leverett House dining hall at Harvard University before their commercial success as reggaeton producers.\n\nLuny Tunes was reggaeton's first major hitmaking production team, cranking out an assembly line of hit singles, club anthems, and CD mixtapes, all the while collaborating with many of the style's top vocalists. Ivy Queen was the first person to work with Luny Tunes when they produced her single \"Quiero Saber\", as she trusted their talent. Luny Tunes were given their big break by DJ Nelson, a reggaeton pioneer who recognized their production talents, which had been well showcased on Hector & Tito's A La Reconquista (2002), and signed them to his Flow Music label. Luny Tunes in turn made their major-label debut, alongside another promising young production talent, Noriega, on Mas Flow (2003). The various artists album consisted of 100% original material featured most of reggaeton's top vocalists of the time (Daddy Yankee, Don Omar, Tego Calderón, Wisin & Yandel, Hector & Tito, Zion & Lennox, Baby Ranks, Nicky Jam, Trebol Clan, and many more) and firmly established the duo as a go-to production team. The album was a huge commercial success in Latin America and was one of the top Latin albums in the United States and would go on to sell over 500,000 copies worldwide despite limited mainstream exposure thanks to the reggaeton boom of 2002-2007.\n\nThe following year Luny Tunes continued to further their reputation, establishing themselves as hitmakers when \"Gasolina,\" one of their numerous productions featured on Daddy Yankee's Barrio Fino (2004), became a worldwide hit and club anthem. In addition to Barrio Fino, Luny Tunes also contributed productions to acclaimed albums by Don Omar (The Last Don, 2003) and Tego Calderón (El Abayarde, 2003), as well as albums by Eddie Dee (Los 12 Discípulos, 2004), Ivy Queen (Diva, 2004), Zion & Lennox (Motivando a la Yal, 2004), Nicky Jam (Vida Escante, 2004), and Trebol Clan (Los Bacatranes, 2004) — all of this within a two-year span. Their instrumentals and musical styles were creating a new standard in reggaeton in general.\n\nIn 2005, Luny Tunes released Mas Flow, Vol. 2, their first all-new album since the previous volume, and in 2006 they released a third, , along with a second compilation of previously released material, Reggaeton Hits, which had been preceded by a prior best-of collection, La Trayectoria (2004). \"Mas Flow 2\" is a landmark album for the reggaeton genre and one of the only products in the history of its music to sell over a million copies worldwide. The album remains the most successful compilation in the history of the genre spawning world renowned hits such as: \"Rakata\" by Wisin y Yandel, \"Mayor Que Yo\" featuring Wisin y Yandel, Daddy Yankee, Don Omar, Tonny Tun Tun and Hector 'El Father', \"Mirame\" by Daddy Yankee feat. Deevani and \"Te He Querido Te He Llorado\" by Ivy Queen among other hit songs. \"Mas Flow 2\" is generally regarded as one of the greatest albums in the history of reggaeton music being one of the few albums of the genre to gain critical and commercial success outside the Spanish Hip Hop and Reggaeton circles.\n\nLuny Tunes then remixed Janet Jackson's hit single \"Call on Me\", which featured Nelly. They then released the compilation in 2006 and a special edition . This album produced the #1 worldwide hit single \"Noche De Entierro\" (Nuestro Amor) by Daddy Yankee, Tonny Tun Tun, Hector 'El Father', Zion and Wisin y Yandel. \"Noche De Entierro\" remains one of the most famous and internationally recognized hits in the history of the reggaeton genre. By this point, Luny Tunes were employing various assistant producers and artists such as Nesty La Mente Maestra, Nely La Arma Secreta, Tainy Tunes, AA and Nales among many others...\n\nIn 2008, Luny Tunes signed duo Erre XI to Mas Flow. After their signing, the duo released their full-length debut album titled \"\" which spawned the single \"Carita Bonita\" featuring Pee Wee of Kumbia All Starz.\n\nIn 2009, Luny Tunes signed Dyland & Lenny to Mas Flow. They started their career in late 2009 with \"Nadie Te Amará Como Yo\". Then they were featured on the Luny Tunes produced track \"Rompiendo Cadenas\" by Latin Grammy recording artist Ana Bárbara. In 2010 they released their debut album My World. Their biggest hits from the album are \"Nadie Te Amará Como Yo\", \"Quiere Pa' Que Te Quieran\" and \"Caliente\" Produced by Madmusick (Yan & Yon).\n\nIn 2010, the duo produced work for Ivy Queen on her seventh studio album \"Drama Queen\" including \"La Vida Es Así\", \"Cosas De La Vida\", and \"Aya Aya\". As well as on her eighth studio album \"Musa\", later in 2012.\n\nIn 2012 they produced a song for Farruko's album \"The Most Powerful Rookie\". Among other albums they worked on was Daddy Yankee's \"Prestige\". Luny Tunes released the coverart for the third edition of the \"Mas Flow\" series, \"Mas Flow 3\". The album will feature Don Omar, Wisin & Yandel, Alexis & Fido, Zion & Lennox, Plan B, Jowell & Randy and among others.\n\nLuny Tunes currently reside in Puerto Rico where they own a studio estimated to be worth around US$3.5 million. In recent years, the superstar production team has worked on hit songs such as \"Adrenalina\" by Wisin feat. Jennifer Lopez and Ricky Martin, \"Duele El Corazon\" by Enrique Iglesias, \"Mayor Que Yo 3\" by Daddy Yankee, Don Omar, Wisin y Yandel, \"Moviendo Caderas\" by Yandel feat. Daddy Yankee, \"Limbo\" by Daddy Yankee and even more pop influenced tracks for the likes of Farruko, Don Omar, and Tito El Bambino. They are currently working on \"Mas Flow 3\", though initially expected to be a more pop influenced album with featurings from the likes of J Balvin and Flex, the product will now be more of a return to reggaeton's roots like the first two Mas Flow albums due to the poor reception of the leaked lead single \"La Fila\" by Don Omar, Sharlene and Maluma. The duo signed a deal with Universal Latino in 2016 to distribute the much anticipated \"Mas Flow 3\" album.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125139", "title": "Anders Jahan Retzius", "text": "Anders Jahan Retzius\n\nAnders Jahan Retzius (3 October 1742 – 6 October 1821) was a Swedish chemist, botanist and entomologist.\n\nBorn in Kristianstad, he matriculated at Lund University in 1758, where he graduated as a filosofie magister in 1766. He also trained as an apothecary apprentice. He received the position of docent of chemistry at Lund in 1766, and of natural history in 1767. He became extraordinary professor of natural history in 1777, and thereafter held various chairs of natural history, economy and chemistry until his retirement in 1812. He died in Stockholm on 6 October 1821.\n\nHe described many new species of insects and did fundamental work on their classification.\n\nRetzius was elected a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1782.\n\nHe was the father of Anders Retzius and grandfather of Gustaf Retzius. Disciples of Anders Jahan Retzius include the botanist Carl Adolph Agardh, the zoologist and archaeologist Sven Nilsson, the botanist and entomologist Carl Fredrik Fallén, and the entomologist Johan Wilhelm Zetterstedt. He was also an influence on the botanist Elias Fries who arrived in Lund by the time Retzius was already an old man.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125149", "title": "Attalus II Philadelphus", "text": "Attalus II Philadelphus\n\nAttalus II Philadelphus (Greek: Ἄτταλος Β΄ ὁ Φιλάδελφος, \"Attalos II Philadelphos\", which means \"Attalus the brother-loving\"; 220–138 BC) was a King of Pergamon and the founder of modern-day Turkish city Antalya.\nHe was the second son of Attalus I Soter and queen Apollonis of Cyzicus, and ascended the throne first as co-ruler alongside his ailing brother Eumenes II in 160 BC, whose widow Stratonice of Pergamon he married in 158 BC upon Eumenes' death.\n\nPrior to becoming king, Attalus was already an accomplished military commander. In 192 BC he was sent by his brother Eumenes to Rome to warn against Antiochus III. In 190 BC, he was present in the Battle of Magnesia which resulted in a defeat against the Seleucids. Around 189 BC he led his forces to fight alongside the Roman Army under Gnaeus Manlius Vulso in Galatia. From 182-179 BC, he successfully defeated the Kingdom of Pontus under Pharnaces I, gaining some territory. In 172, Eumenes, returning from a visit to Rome, was attacked near Cirrha and was believed to be dead. Attalus, upon learning of this, married his brother's widow Stratonice and became king of Pergamon. When his brother returned, he divorced Stratonice and ceded the power to his elder brother without a fight.\n\nAttalus II also made frequent diplomatic visits to Rome, and sent frequent envoys such as Andronicus of Pergamum, gaining the esteem of the Romans. At one point, they offered him assistance to overthrow his brother, but he declined. When his brother died in 159 BC, his nephew was too young to rule at the time, so he ascended the throne as regent and married Stratonice once again. The Romans had assisted him in his own battles against Prusias II in 156–154 BC. In the summer of 152, he, Ptolemy IV, Ariarathes V, and Rome, helped the pretender Alexander Balas to seize the Seleucid throne from Demetrius I and in 149 BC, he helped Nicomedes II Epiphanes to seize the Bithynian throne from his father Prusias II. \n\nAttalus expanded his kingdom with the help of his good friend Ariarathes V of Cappadocia, and founded the cities of Philadelphia and Attalia. He was well known as a patron of the arts and sciences, and was the inventor of a new kind of embroidery.\n\nIn his old age, he relied upon his chief minister, named Philopoemen (Φιλοποίμην), to help him govern.\n\nHe was succeeded by his nephew Attalus III upon his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125155", "title": "Tony Scalzo", "text": "Tony Scalzo\n\nTony Scalzo (born May 6, 1964 in Honolulu, Hawaii) is an American rock musician and songwriter best known as a founding member of the band Fastball.\n\nTony Scalzo was born in Hawaii to a mother from Arizona and an Italian-American father from New Jersey but moved quite often as a child because his father was a U.S. Marine who fought in World War II. Scalzo began playing bass guitar in the 1980s and soon began forming bands. He has four children: Scarlett, Claudia, Gabriel, and Henry Scalzo.\n\nIn 1994, Scalzo left his punk/pop group The Goods and made the decision to relocate to Austin, Texas to join the Beaver Nelson Band. However, he ended up leaving the group and helped form the band Fastball. The new group was composed of Scalzo and two of his former bandmates, Joey Shuffield and Miles Zuniga. Fastball was signed by Hollywood Records and began touring the country. Their second album had Top Ten hits in six countries in the middle of 1998, and the album soon went platinum. Scalzo describes his success as being \"a big homegrown thing.\" Scalzo also wrote their hit song, \"The Way\".\n\nIn 2013, Scalzo released his first studio album, \"My Favorite Year\". It was engineered by Joe Blaney, who helped to engineer The Clash's fifth album \"Combat Rock\". Work on the album started on 2011, when Tony started a Kickstarter program. Some of the songs were co-written with his Fastball colleague Miles Zuniga and were intended to be Fastball tracks, but were not included in any of the band's records.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125158", "title": "Łazienki Park", "text": "Łazienki Park\n\nŁazienki Park or Royal Baths Park () is the largest park in Warsaw, Poland, occupying 76 hectares of the city center.\n\nThe park-and-palace complex lies in Warsaw's central district (\"Śródmieście\") on Ujazdów Avenue, which is part of the Royal Route linking the Royal Castle with Wilanów Palace to the south. North of Łazienki Park, on the other side of Agrykola Street, stands Ujazdów Castle.\n\nOriginally designed in the 17th century as a baths park for nobleman Stanisław Herakliusz Lubomirski, in the 18th century Łazienki was transformed by Poland's last monarch, Stanisław II Augustus, into a setting for palaces, villas, classicist follies, and monuments. In 1918 it was officially designated a public park. \n\nŁazienki is visited by tourists from all over Poland and the world, and serves as a venue for music, the arts, and culture. The park is also home to peacocks and a large number of squirrels.\n\nŁazienki Park was designed in the 17th century by Tylman van Gameren, in the baroque style, for military commander Stanisław Herakliusz Lubomirski. It took the name Łazienki (\"Baths\") from a bathing pavilion that was located nearby.\n\nThe picturesque garden scheme owes its emergence as its present shape and appearance mainly to the last ruler of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, King Stanisław August Poniatowski (Stanisław II Augustus). In the mid-16th century, it became part of the estates of Poland's Italian-born Queen Bona Sforza, who built a wooden manor house with an Italian garden on this site. Later, the wooden manor house of Queen Anna Jagiellon stood on this spot, immortalized in 1578 by the performance of the first Polish play, \"Dismissal of the Greek Envoys\" by Jan Kochanowski. To the south, King Sigismund III Vasa had a four-sided stone castle with corner towers erected in 1624.\n\nIn the second half of the 17th century, Ujazdów became the property of Grand Crown Marshal Stanisław Herakliusz Lubomirski. He was the first to call attention to the thickly wooded area of a former animal park stretching along the foot of Ujazdów Castle where he built two garden pavilions. The first pavilion was a hermitage and the other originally contained an ornate bath chamber which first gave its name to the building and eventually to the entire garden. The original baths designed by the renowned architect Tylman van Gameren in the Baroque style, are contained to this day within the walls of the Palace on the Isle. In the first half of the 18th century, Ujazdów was leased to King Augustus II the Strong, during whose reign a regular waterway known as the Piaseczno Canal was built.\n\nIn 1764, Ujazdów became the property of King Stanisław II Augustus. The monarch first set about rebuilding Ujazdów Castle which he chose as his summer residence. Work was begun in the castle's forefield, where a series of straight paths converging at circles was laid out. The remodeling of the old Ujazdów Castle, which received an additional storey and new wings, dragged on without producing the expected results. The king became discouraged, abandoned further work and shifted his attention to the surrounding gardens.\n\nModified and reconstructed in several stages over two decades beginning in 1772, the former Lubomirski Bath-House was eventually transformed into the elegant classicist Palace on the Isle. Throughout the gardens, many new structures were built and adorned by architects Dominik Merlini and Jan Chrystian Kamsetzer, painters Jan Bogumił Plersch and Marcello Bacciarelli, and sculptors Andrzej Le Brun, Jakub Monaldi, and Franciszek Pinek. In 1774 a White House was erected in the form of a simple hexagon with comfortably appointed interiors. According to legend, the king's mistress, Elżbieta Grabowska, as well as his sisters resided in the manor. From 1775 to 1783 the Myślewicki Palace was built opposite the Bath-House. Originally it took the form of a cube built on a square, to which eventually wings were built on and subsequently elevated. During the 1770s the hermitage, which had been damaged by lightning, was restored and one of the king's companions, Teresa Lhullier, took up residence there.\n\nGradually, the gardens also changed their appearance. In 1778, a Royal Promenade was laid out – a lane joining the White House to the Bath-House. At the point where it crossed the Wilanów Road, a one-storey Chinese-style summer house (subsequently dismantled in the 19th century and recently reconstructed) was erected. The old canals and pool near the Bath House were transformed into diversely shaped ponds of considerable size. In addition to gardens geometrically laid out in the French manner, the park also contained scenic areas inspired by the romantic English garden. Near the Royal Promenade a small pavilion meant for then a popular game called \"Trou Madame\" was built, later converted into a theatre. Directly opposite, on the southern shore of the pond, an earthen amphitheatre with a stage in a cluster of trees was established. The view from the Bath House to the south was closed off with a water cascade and to the north – with a stone bridge upon which a monument to King John III Sobieski stands to this day. The Grand Annexe of considerable size contained the extensive premises of the royal kitchen as well as lodgings for officials and servants quarters. Exotic fruit was grown in the Old Orangery, which was frequently visited by guests.\n\nBy then, the royal complex also included the baroque Belvedere Palace situated at the southern edge of the escarpment. In one of the wings, the king set up a faience factory whose products were known as Belvedere vessels. Whenever Stanisław Augustus visited Łazienki, he was followed by his entire court and closest family members. Decorative tents were set up in the garden to accommodate mainly all the servants and guards. At such times, the park was filled with strolling couples, people in carriages and small boats or gondolas. Colourful and raucous spectacles including firework displays and other illuminations were staged in the gardens and often attended by the citizens of Warsaw. Such was the case when a magnificent carousel was set into motion to mark the unveiling of the King John III Sobieski monument in 1788.\n\nThe Palace on the Isle was the scene of the famous Thursday Lunches, to which the king would invite scholars, writers and poets. Łazienki at that time was an important cultural centre that flourished thanks to the support of Stanisław Augustus, a patron of the fine arts and propagator of science and learning. As a palace and garden complex, Łazienki reflected the classicist style widespread in Europe during the latter half of the 18th century. But it stood for its picturesque nature and variety, hence that classicism (also found in the interiors of Ujazdów Castle designed by the King) has come to be known as the style of Stanisław Augustus.\n\nFollowing the partitions of Poland, in the 19th century, Łazienki fell into the hands of the Russian tsars. In the period from 1819 to 1830, at the request of the new owners architect Jakub Kubicki rebuilt the Belvedere in the late-classicist style and subsequently erected new pavilions in the gardens – the Egyptian Temple and Temple of Diana. He converted the former Trou Madame pavilion into a new guardhouse and a school, hence today it is best known as \"Podchorążówka\" (Cadets’ Hall).\n\nThe Nazi occupation was a tragic period for Łazienki. In 1939 it was closed to Poles and the historic buildings were taken over by the German military. Towards the end of December 1944, before evacuating the palace, the Nazis drenched its walls with petrol and set the complex on fire. In the building's blackened walls they drilled some one thousand holes to place dynamite in order to blow it up the way they had Warsaw's Royal Castle but ultimately they were unable to do so.\n\nFollowing the Second World War, an arduous reconstruction project of the Łazienki royal complex, which was to last nearly two decades, got under way. The first seven ground floor chambers of the palace was opened to the public in 1960 and in 1965 the entire first floor. Fortunately the White House, Myślewicki Palace and the theatre in the old orangery were spared from any severe destruction during the war. Nevertheless, they required thorough restoration, since they did sustain damage. At present they are completely renovated and open to visitors. Also restored are the Amphitheatre, Waterworks and the Cadets’ Hall which recently became the home of the Ignacy Jan Paderewski Museum. This historic palace and garden complex, now situated in the city centre, performs various cultural functions and is regularly visited by a great many domestic and foreign excursions as well as Varsovians.\n\nThe principal edifice of Łazienki is the Palace on the Isle (). It was originally a baroque Bath-House erected in about 1680 by Lubomirski according to the design of Tylman van Gameren, the most outstanding architect in Poland at that time. The square-shaped structure had a three-side protrusion on its northern elevation. Inside was a round hall with a fountain and the hall was topped by a cupola illuminated from above by a lanterns. The walls were studded with pebbles, seashells and imitated grotto. Adjoining it was a bath chamber with walls adorned by bas-reliefs. Both the building's interior as well as its exterior elevation were richly decorated with stucco, sculptures and murals. A portion of the original decorations survived on the entrance wall of the columned portico. Also original is the Latin inscription to be read as a rebus. In translation it states: “This house hates sorrow, loves peace, offers a bath, recommends an idyllic life and wishes to play host to honest men.”\n\nTo a large extent, the decorations of the main entrance hall, the Chamber of Bacchus and the Bath-Chamber all dating from Lubomirski's time, have survived. Stanisław Augustus first took an interest in the old Bath-House in 1772. Initially, some of the interiors were restored and turned into living quarters. That coincided with a fashionable notion of fleeing palatial mansions to secludes rural abodes. In 1777, the first considerable change in the Bath-House's appearance occurred. Most notably a send storey was added to the building with a sleeping suite for King Stanisław Augustus. Downstairs a dining-room was created which already had a classicist appearance. Fashionable roofed Chinese galleries with little bridges were added at both sides, with the western one leading to what soon would be the Royal Promenade. In 1784, a more extensive reconstruction of the Bath-House was launched according to a design by Dominik Merlini. Two new annexes were built on the southern side, joined together by a row of four columns. The classicist façade was covered with sandstone slabs. Four years later two new segments slightly set back from the south were added on both sides. On the northern side they formed part of the new, monumental northern façade which featured a columned portico crowned by a triangular tympanum. The entire elevation was crowned with a stone attic embellished with sculptures by André-Jean Lebrun.\nIn 1793, two additional pavilions were constructed. They were joined to the palace by little bridges with columned galleries. Despite the numerous reconstructions over the years, the edifice had remained as a harmonious whole. But what started as a simple bathing pavilion had been transformed into a lavish palace. The exterior changes were accompanied by work on the interiors, most of which were given a classicist-style appearance.\n\nA completely new interior, in the western segment added in 1788, was the two-tiered Ballroom with decorations designed by Jan Chrystian Kamsetzer. Completed in 1793, it constituted an outstanding example of the classicist style in Poland. The stuccowork and mural decorations were subordinated to architectural divisions. The axis of the composition was set off by two monumental marble fireplaces in the form of wall porticoes, featuring statues of Apollo and Farnesian Heracles set against the shorter walls. The longer, white marbled walls decorated by vertical panneaux, painted by Jan Bogumił Plersh in the style of Raphael's grotesques in the Vatican. Gold was the dominant colour in all chambers, especially in Solomon's Hall. The plafond, bed-mouldings and both longer walls were filled with paintings by Marcello Bacciarelli illustrating the life of King Solomon. It was also during the time that the interior of the former baroque grotto at the centre of the building was changed into something exceptionally monumental and serious. The walls were stuccoed in gold, grey and white and were divided with half-columns (between which neighbouring premises were entered) as well as four niches containing the marble statues of the greatest Polish monarchs: Casimir III the Great, Stefan Batory, Sigismund III and John III Sobieski. The cupola contained four tondi painted by Bacciarelli symbolizing the four virtues exemplified by the monarchs: courage, wisdom, justice and mercy. They concealed (in 1795) earlier frescos by Plersch illustrating the times of the day which had been in keeping with the interior's previous climate.\n\nAmong the other ground-floor chambers is also the portrait room and the considerably bigger picture gallery with paintings collected over time by kings and queens. A small chapel was also erected on the ground floor. It was topped with an oval cupola and the walls were divided by pilasters and panels covered with multi-coloured stucco. The first floor consists of a suite and study, the picture gallery, a royal bedroom, library and the quarters of some servants.\n\nThe classical amphitheater, inspired by ancient Greek and Roman architecture, was built on the bank of the Łazienki lake, separated by a narrow strait from its stage on a small isle. The amphitheater was built in 1790–93 by Jan Chrystian Kamsetzer. Its attic was embellished with 16 statues representing famous poets, playwrights, and thinkers of antiquity and of the 16th-17th centuries. In 1922 the 16 statues were replaced by 8 statues.\n\nThe stage, sited on an isle, was modeled after ancient Herculaneum and features decorations imitating ruins in the Roman Forum. Performances are still staged on the isle. The amphitheater and its stage provide a perfect setting on a summer evening, despite occasional noise from the swans, ducks, and especially the eerily hooting peacocks.\n\nThe Little White House (\"Biały Domek\") is a garden villa built in 1774-76 by Domenico Merlini. It housed King Stanisław August Poniatowski's mistress and, for a time, Louis XVIII, who lived here in 1801-05 during his exile from France. Built in the form of a square, it has identical facades, adorned with rustication, an attic and a small pavilion at the top. The interiors were decorated by the prominent Polish painters Jan Ścisło and Jan Bogumił Plersch.\n\nThough the Little White House was devastated by the Germans during World War II, many of its interior furnishings survived. The most interesting include \"grotesque\" paintings in the dining room, 18th-century Chinese wallpaper in the parlor, the king's bed in the bedchamber, and a cabinet in the form of an arbor with trompe-l'œil paintings by Plersch.\n\nThe palace, which was named after the now nonextant village of Myślewice, stood at the end of a road leading into town. Initially (in 1775) it was conceived as a one-storey villa set on a square. Flanking the building's main entrance, set off by lanterns held up by sculpted children, Monaldi's statues of Zephyr and Flora were enshrined within two smaller niches in 1777.\n\nBefore the building could be completed (as originally planned) quarter-circular wings were added to either side, ending with one-storey pavilions covered with the than fashionable Chinese-style roofs. Several years later, a floor was added to the one-storey pavilions. The edifice, designed by Merilini, took on the appearance of a classicist mansion. Tradition holds that the king gave it to his nephew, Prince Józef Poniatowski.\n\nThe mansion survived World War II, and many of its interiors retain their original décor. Noteworthy on the ground floor is the former dining hall (now a salon) with scenes of Rome and Venice by Plersch. Next to it (on the western side) is the former bathroom with marbled walls and a plafond painted by Plersch, showing Zephyr and Flora. Another room in the west suite is adorned with seven fanciful views of ancient ruins set against a romantic landscape.\n\nThey were painted by Antoni Herliczek. The next bedroom's walls are decorated with painted medallions showing hunting cupids on the prowls. On the second floor only the décor of the little study has survived. Its walls are adorned with grayish-green panels into which medallions incorporating personification of learning and art have been woven.\n\nThe Old Orangery was erected in 1786–88 in a rectangular horseshoe shape, with the southern façade of the core structure broken up by pilasters and arcaded great windows. The adjoining wings to the west were quarters for gardeners and staff. In the considerably larger wing to the east, a theatre was set up with an entrance in the two-tiered elevation. Due to its richly decorated interior which has luckily survived to modern times, it is one of the world's few extant examples of an authentic 18th-century court theatre.\n\nThe simple, square-shaped audience area accommodated about 200 and comprised a ground floor where benches were arranged in amphitheatre fashion as well as three boxes on each wall overlooking the ground floor. The walls between the boxes were divided by pairs of pilasters, between which pilaster statues depicting women holding candles were placed. The statues were the work of Andrzej Le Brun who was assisted by Jakub Monaldi and Joachim Staggi. Above the real boxes illusionary ones were painted to suggest yet another tier of boxes filled with a courtly, elegantly attired public. The painting was the work of Plersch who had also painted above the stage what appeared to be bas-reliefs of coats-of-arms with the crest of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth at centre.\n\nAlso painted by Plersch was the plafond depicting Apollo in a quadriga. The painting is set in a circular frame, beyond whose perimeters bas-relief-effect medallions bearing the likeness of the outstanding playwrights Sophocles, Shakespeare, Molière and Racine extend. The theatre's interior was built entirely of wood to ensure excellent acoustics. The deep stage has a slanted floor and displays fragments of the equipment of a former engine-room. At either sides of the stage, three-tiered actors’ dressing-rooms were found. In the west wing of the Old Orangery as well as in the corridors running along its main trunk a Gallery of Polish Sculpture has been set up. On exhibit are works dating from the 16th century up to 1939. Only a very few sculptures dating from the 16th and 17th centuries as well as the first half of the 18th are on display and they may be admired in Room 1. The next room contains sculptures from the latter half of the 18th century including works by Jan Jerzy Plersch, the artist's father, Franciszek Pinck and Andrzej Le Brun. Dating from the mid-19th century are works by such artist as Paweł Maliński- the first professor of Warsaw University's Chair of Sculpture, Jakub Tatarkiewicz, Władysław Oleszczyński- an outstanding representative of the romantic school, as well as Marceli Guyski and Henryk Sattler, the son of the painter Korneli.\n\nThe building was built by Adam Adolf Loewe and Józef Orłowski in 1860. Neo-classicist with eclectic elements, it was designed to shelter the collection of orange trees.\n\nThe building was necessary because tsar Alexander II of Russia, who purchased one of the largest in Europe collection of tropical plants from Nieborów, could not transport it to Saint Petersburg, due to climate conditions there. The collection's pride were long-lived orange trees (there were 124 of them in the collection). Unfortunately, during the World War I, they were left without appropriate care and froze. The building consists of an oblong hall, with glass walls. Today it houses a tropical garden and a restaurant in the northern wing.\n\nIn 1822, Jakub Kubicki erected a classicist temple to the goddess Diana. Also called the \"Temple of the Sibyl,\" it stands next to the northwest part of the southern Łazienki lake. The wooden building is massive and decorated inside with murals with flower and fruit motifs.\n\nAn Egyptian temple was also built in 1822 by Jakub Kubicki, on the southwest shore of the southern Łazienki Lake. It was placed next to the fortress built by Stanisław Lubomirski, which protected Warsaw south of that point. In 1771 a bridge was built to it. During the Warsaw Uprising, only the northern part of the temple survived; the southern part has never been rebuilt.\n\nThe Museum of Scouting is currently located in the temple.\n\nThe Water Tower is a neoclassical structure, built in 1777–78 and 1822 by Jan Christian Kamsetzer and Chrystian Piotr Aigner. It was modeled after Caecilia Metella's mausoleum on the Appian Way in Rome and currently serves as a museum of jewelry.\n\nSituated outside the precincts of Łazienki Park on the opposite side of Agrykola Street, this small square building is covered with a mansard roof that conceals its little upstairs rooms. The Hermitage once served Marshal Stanisław Herakliusz Lubomirski as a retreat. For a time, a companion of King Stanisław II August, Madame Teresa Lhuiller, lived here. Destroyed by fire at the start of King Stanisław August's reign, the Hermitage was rebuilt in 1777.\n\nFor many years following World War II, the building housed a kindergarten. At present, since the restoration of its interior, the Hermitage serves as a venue for concerts, book promotions, meetings with authors, and other social and cultural events.\n\nThe Old Guardhouse, designed by Kamsetzer, was built in 1791–92 for the guards protecting the approach to the palace. It stands next to the north pond, at the roadside. The building's façade was embellished with four Doric columns and a partly balustraded attic. Though modest-sized, the building conveys a majestic image. It now serves as a venue for temporary exhibitions.\n\nThe new Guardhouse is situated near the west side of the Palace on the Isle. It came into being through the reconstruction of a little building erected in 1779–1780 for the then popular game Trou-Madame, and murals adorned both its exterior and interior walls. In 1782, the building was converted into a theatre called the \"Little Theatre\", with portable wooden booths serving as the actors’ changing rooms. After a proper theatre was created in the Old Orangery, the Little Theatre lost its reason for existence. It was turned into a storage-room where statues were kept and was therefore referred to at that time as the marble supply-house.\n\nIn 1830, Jakub Kubicki rebuilt the structure in the classicist style. Between the segments added on the east side he introduced columns with partially grooved shafts. The external decorations incorporated cartouches with panoplies and masks of Mars, the god of war. Today the building houses a café known under the 18th-century name of Trou-Madame.\n\nThis building was constructed in 1825–1826 in the grange area on the eastern side of Łazienki Gardens on the site of earlier wooden structures. It was designed along the lines of a simple horseshoe with a higher (one-storey) central portion used as staff quarters. The ground-floor wings directly adjoining the main (central) building were used as stables and the side wings served as coach-houses. The building was designed by Kulbicki and reflected a classicist architectural style, it contains conservators’ work-shops.\n\nThis structure was built in 1825–1826 in the portion of the grange found at the south side of Łazienki Gardens. The one-storey rectangular building stands out for the severity of its architecture. Its designer could have been Wilhelm Henryk Minter, who built no longer extant barracks for hussars, uhlans and cuirassiers in the vicinity. Today it is the home of the Hunters’ and Riders’ Museum\n\nBetween the stables and invalids’ barracks is a villa with a façade adorned with round panels, while the back is marked by a three-sided projection. The structure was built in the 1830s, possibly as lodgings for senior army officers. After Poland regained independence following World War I, the building served for two years as the residence of Gabriel Narutowicz before he became the first president of the resurrected Polish Republic. Today the building serves as a nursery school.\n\nThis building should not be confused with Narutowicz's villa, just outside Łazienki Park at 23 Dworkowa St., where Narutowicz stayed as president from 11 to 16 December 1922, when he was assassinated.\n\nA bridge with a monument to King John III Sobieski closes off the view from the north windows of the Łazienki Palace. The bridge, originally single-span, covered with stone panels, was erected in 1777–80. In 1877, when the canal was widened, two new spans were added on the east side. The central section of the bridge was designed by Dominik Merlini.\n\nThe King Sobieski Monument was designed by Andre Le Brun, who modeled it on King John Sobieski's equestrian statue at Wilanów. The statue's execution was made easier by a rough-hewn stone block, set aside for this purpose, that had lain at the Szydłowiec quarry since Sobieski's time. The monument shows a rider in knight's armor astride a rearing steed whose hooves trample two Ottoman Turks. The monument symbolizes Sobieski's victory over the Turks at the Battle of Vienna (1683).\n\nThe Belweder, also called Belvedere, came into being in 1659 through the reconstruction of an older structure from about 1600. It was Krzysztof Zygmunt Pac, the Grand Chancellor of Lithuania, who erected a palatial villa at the edge of a tall escarpment for his wife, Klara Izabella de Lascaris, who was an attendant at the court of Queen Marie Louise Gonzaga. Owing to the beautiful scenery one could admire from the villa's windows it was named the Belvedere (from Latin \"bellus vedere\", literally \"beautiful view\"). In the 1730s, the old building was replaced with a new brick building of rectangular shape designed by architect Józef Fontana.\n\nHaving purchased the Belvedere to add to his estates in 1767, Stanisław August had originally planned to reconstruct it. That, however, never came about. Instead, he had it used for officials‘ and servants‘ quarters and set up a porcelain-manufacturing plant. in the north annexe.\n\nThe Belvedere first underwent major reconstruction in 1819–1822 when Grand Duke Constantine, the tsarist viceroy in Russian-occupied Poland, decided to make it his residence. The baroque structure was remodelled in the classicist style. To the building's main hull two one-floor perpendicular wings were added. The façade and garden wall were enhanced with monumental columned porticoes. Elements of the original décor have survived to this day in the palace's interior, particularly in the Blue Room, known as the Pompeii Room, and the Drawing-Room. Many pieces of furniture and other smaller historic items have also survived. Until recently, the Belvedere was the seat of the President of Poland.\n\nIn the garden stretching directly beneath the Belvedere escarpment, two pavilions were erected in 1822, most likely designed by Jakub Kubicki: the Temple of Diana (also known as the Temple of Sibyl) and the Egyptian Temple. The former, situated in the garden's northern section, reflected the classical architecture of ancient Greece. It was built entirely of wood, and murals with floral motifs adorned its interior. Lying cast-iron lions guarded its entrance. The other pavilion was built in the garden's south section atop the embankment of former trenches (dating from 1771) that had encircled Warsaw and were known as Lubomirski's Ramparts. The pavilion's roof, topped with an attic, was also a terrace though which a road ran. Initially, the terrace was adorned by a tall wooden obelisk covered with red hieroglyphics. The central portion of the buildings opens on the water canal outside through four lotus columns. Below are the busts of lions squirting water into the pool running along the temple.\n\nThe current building was constructed in 1975 after a 1944 fire during the Warsaw Uprising destroyed the previous stone construction, but castles have existed on the spot since around the 13th century. In 1624 construction began on a stone castle under order of King Sigismund III Vasa, with remodeling by subsequent owners Stanisław Herakliusz Lubomirski and Stanisław II Augustus, the latter of whom donated the property to the Polish Army in 1784. In the 18th century the castle was included in the \"Stanislavian Axis\", a line of parks and palaces planned in the southern outskirts of Warsaw much like the Saxon Axis in the city center. Since 1981 it has been the home of the Center for Contemporary Art.\n\nAlong the Ujazdów Avenues, within the Botanical Gardens, stands the Astronomical Observatory. It was built in 1824 by Chrystian Piotr Aigner and Hilary Szpilowski in the late classicist style. Adjoining it in the south are the buildings of the king's hothouse, which was built in about 1790. Still standing are the royal salon with a triple entrance, the gardener's cottage, a part of the coach-house and the hothouse proper, where figs and pineapples grew. The salon, in which the king received guests and diplomats, was originally decorated by the murals of Jan Jerzy Plersch. This building is Warsaw's only surviving example of this type of 18th-century architecture. The hothouse was designed by Jan Chrystian Kamsetzer.\n\nThe park is also home to the Frédéric Chopin Monument. The large bronze statue was designed in 1907 by Wacław Szymanowski for its planned erection on the centenary of Chopin's birth in 1810 but its execution was delayed by controversy about the design, then by the outbreak of World War I. It was the first monument destroyed by the occupying Germans in Warsaw. The statue was finally cast and erected in 1926. \n\nEvery Sunday piano concerts are held in front of the monument with free entrance.\n\n\nHistoric images\nBy Vogel (1800s)\nGarden features\n\n"}
{"id": "2125159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125159", "title": "Wangan Midnight", "text": "Wangan Midnight\n\nThe series has been adapted into several live action feature films, video games, and an anime television series. The anime began airing in Japan on February 8, 2015 on the anime satellite television network Animax, produced by OB Planning.\n\nA second series entitled \"Wangan Midnight: C1 Runner\" was published from 2000 to 2015. The third series, \"Ginkai no Speed Star\", was published from 2014 to 2015. A fourth series, entitled \"Shutoko SPL - Ginkai no Speedster\", started in 2016.\n\nIn 1999, \"Wangan Midnight\" won the Kodansha Manga Award for general manga.\n\nThe story primarily revolves around street racing that occurs on Tokyo's Shuto Expressway, Bayshore Route. \"Wangan\" (\"湾岸\", literally \"bayshore\" in Japanese) is the endonym of the longest, straightest road in Japan. There is also road traffic to contend with, including a fair number of heavy trucks and buses. Because of this, the action is inherently hazardous, and wrecks are common. Blown engines are also a frequent hazard, especially cars with extremely high-powered engines.\n\nOne day, Akio Asakura (a high school student with a knack for attracting many girls and taking them for rides in his car), was passed by a black Porsche 911 Turbo (964), dubbed the \"Blackbird\" (driven by Combat Medic Tatsuya Shima). With his friend in the passenger seat and two girls in the back, Akio attempts to win, but (quickly \"eats its dust\"), is defeated.\n\nDetermined to drive a faster car, Akio heads for the junkyard and finds an old blue Nissan Fairlady Z (S30) & 1983-2000-2015 Peugeot 405-T16 Pikes Peaks Pioneer, discovering that it has been tuned from an old and outdated piece of junk, into a souped-up racing monster known as \"\".\n\nDespite warnings about how the car is supposedly cursed, that all of its previous owners happen to share his full name, and that every one of those owners has died due to accidents, he takes the dealer up on the offer and gives the Devil Z a spin, and discovered that the Z (which had a tuned 3.1-liter L28-kai triple-carburetor, twin-turbo engine) not only has unparalleled power, but seems to have a mind of its own, as he soon wipes out spectacularly trying to control it.\n\nDespite what happens when he's behind the wheel of the Devil Z, Akio is determined to take mastery of the Devil Z and get back at his new rival. As he develops his career as the infamous owner of the Devil Z, Akio meets many other racers and tuners along the way, though the central plot revolves around the constant battle with Blackbird, for Wangan superiority.\n\nThe new story arc, \"Wangan Midnight: C1 Runner\", features the new adventures of the new main character, Shinji Ogishima (which debuted in the last chapters of the original story), and his friend, Nobu Setoguchi, both are part of \"GT Cars\" project which is in dispute and conflict, and must settle these problems by driving Mazda RX-7s around Shuto Expressway, and meeting with Tatsuya Shima.\n\n\"Wangan Midnight\" is written and illustrated by Michiharu Kusunoki. The series was first briefly published in Shogakukan's \"Big Comic Spirits\" in 1990 and transferred to Kodansha's \"Weekly Young Magazine\", where it ran from 1992 to 2015. The series was compiled into forty-two \"tankōbon\" volumes published from January 5, 1993 to December 26, 2015. A sequel entitled \"Wangan Midnight: C1 Runner\" started in 2015 and finished in 2012. It was compiled into twelve \"tankōbon\" volumes published between November 6, 2015 and October 5, 2015. A third series entitled \"Ginkai no Speed Star\" was serialized in \"Big Comic Spirits\" from August 11, 2014 to April 13, 2015. Shogakukan compiled the series into two \"tankōbon\" volumes published on November 28, 2014 and May 29, 2015. A fourth sequel entitled \" Shutoko SPL - Ginkai no Speedster\" started in Kodansha's \"Monthly Young Magazine\" on September 20, 2016. The first \"tankōbon\" volume was published on January 5, 2018. The series has been compiled into four \"tankōbon\" volumes as of September 2019.\n\nThe series was adapted into a series of direct-to-video movies in 1991, 1993, 1994, 1998, 2000, and 2015.\n\n\nAt the 2007 Tokyo Anime Fair, OB Planning announced the production of an animated series based on the manga, and aired on a pay-per-view channel of Animax in June 2007, the series was co-produced by OB Planning, A.C.G.T., and Pastel, under the direction of Tsuneo Tominaga. The anime consists of twenty-six episodes. The series was released on DVD with the thirteenth volume reaching 29th on the Oricon sales chart for Japanese animation DVDs in November 2008. The Japanese opening theme for the series is \"Lights and Anymore\" by TRF; the opening features clips of Akio's Devil Z, the 3 main characters of the show, and also features Akio's Devil Z racing against Shima's Blackbird. The closing theme is \"Talkin' Bout Good Days\" by Mother Ninja.\n\nOn September 12, 2009, Jolly Roger and Geneon Universal Entertainment released a live-action adaptation of the manga, titled \"Wangan Midnight: The Movie\". The film was shot in San Mateo, Rizal, Philippines, as a stand-in for the expressway racing scenes. Like the previous anime television series and video features, \"Wangan Midnight: The Movie\" centers on Akio Asakura's \"Devil Z\" and the rivalry with Tatsuya Shima's \"Blackbird\".\n\nThe series has been adapted into a series of video games, developed by Bandai Namco Amusement.\n\n\"Wangan Midnight\", developed by Genki and released on February 2, 2000 as an arcade game, plays much like \"Shutokou Battle\". The objective is to drain the opponent's Life Meter by maintaining a major advantage or causing the opponent to crash into things.\n\nOn December 20, 2000, \"Wangan Midnight R\" was released. A PS2 version of \"Wangan Midnight\" was released later on March 21, 2000. It was basically a home port of \"Wangan Midnight R\".\n\nA sequel to the original game was released in 2007 for the PlayStation 3, and PlayStation Portable (as Wangan Midnight Portable) platforms. The PS3 and PSP games were re-released in 2008, under the \"Genki The Best\" label. The game has nothing to do with the arcade games and is mostly centered on the manga's story.\n\nOn release, \"Famitsu\" magazine scored the first PlayStation 2 version of the game a 30 out of 40.\n\n\"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune\" (marketed as \"Maximum Tune\" in North America), developed by Bandai Namco Amusement (was formerly developed by Namco), is the series of Wangan Midnight games as most fans know it. Originally released in July 6, 2004, \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune\" features a card system, more lenient and drifty driving physics, more colorful graphics, a more traditional \"point A to point B\" racing system, and a tuning system in which players can tune their car all the way to 800 hp (600 kW) by completing 60, 80, or 100 stages of Story Mode.\n\n\nReleased on April 25, 2005, \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 2\" introduces the Hakone mountain pass, and increased the maximum horsepower to 815.\n\nStory Mode has been revamped, expanded to 80 stages from 60 with the latter half of Story Mode following various story arcs from the Wangan Midnight manga.\n\nWhen a player's card expires, they can use the expired card, now a \"Discarded Vehicle Card\", to make up to two clones of their car with everything other than vehicle color and Story Mode progress up to stage 20 reset.\n\nAlso, VS races are also done on circuits; the lead player deciding the next route at forks would not come until \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3\".\n\n\nReleased on July 18, 2007, \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3\" expands the Tokyo map to include longer stretches of the Yokohane and Wangan lines, and adds the Osaka Hanshin line as a new map.\n\nThe Story Mode was completely revamped and are now fully integrated to the stories from the original manga. Ghost Battle is introduced, allowing players within the same arcade to race against AI opponents representing past runs within the mode; winning battles in Ghost Battle earns the player Dress-Up points that can be used to make cosmetic changes to their car.\n\nVS Mode has been overhauled; on Tokyo and Osaka, instead of racing fixed circuits, certain junctions allow the lead player to choose the next route.\n\n\nReleased on December 16, 2008, \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3 DX\" adds the Nagoya Speed Ring area. \n\nStory Mode has been extended further to 100 stages; along with \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3 DX Plus\", this results in the longest and most expensive Story Mode cycle (the next installment to do so is \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 6\", though many fans were also relieved to find out that the unlock conditions for new tachometers were changed. Instead of completing an entire story loop from start to finish, unshaded, players can obtain them by \"completing any 100 story chapters without losing once\"). The maximum horsepower has been increased from 815 hp to 825 hp. \nReleased in Japan on March 4, 2010 and in Indonesia in May 2010. \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3 DX Plus\" (stylized as \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3DX+\") is the last version to support proprietary read/write data cards. \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3 DX Plus\" adds the Fukuoka Urban Expressway area.\n\n\nReleased in Japan, on December 15, 2011, Australia, on December 15, 2012, Indonesia, on November 27, 2013, and China, on 2016, it operates on the \"System ES1\" system, an upgraded version of \"System N2\". The maximum horsepower has been increased from 825 hp to 830 hp.\n\nBefore \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 4\" it's quite common for a player to have more than one card, as the card can store one car per card. This became a thing of the past when \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 4\" ditched the previous installments' magnetic cards in favor of Bandai Namco ID system; since player data is stored on the server rather than on the card, there is no issue of cards having limited data, and thus the player can have up to 100 cars in their profile.\n\n\"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 4\" was the first installment to use the Bandai Namco ID network and corresponding BanaPassport card system (Banapassport cards are read-only NFC cards and only contain the card ID, and all player data is stored in Bandai Namco's cloud infrastructure and the card is used for player authentication. It isn't vulnerable to the issue of the card wearing out from read-write cycles like magnetic cards), with all player data being stored on the server. SEGA's Aime cards are compatible with the game as well, due to Namco and SEGA sharing the same online infrastructure; conversely BanaPassport cards can be used on games using Aime readers.\n\nThis network functionality allows players to race ghosts from other arcades, see server records when racing in Time Attack, and access player data from the web. The \"Wangan Terminal\" (a companion cabinet that allows players to change customizations and game settings at no cost, and (depending on the arcade), can sell unactivated BanaPassport cards to players (since BanaPassport cards can be purchased independent of \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune\" cabinets for play with other games on the network, it is common for arcades to only load cards into the \"Wangan Terminal\" and not into the gameplay cabinets, or to not even load cards at all and sell them in person through the counter instead)) is also introduced.\n\nAside from these dramatic changes to player data structure, Story Mode has been shrunk from 100 stages back to 60, Porsche cars are officially available for the first time outside of Japan under the RUF license (they exist in a dummied-out form in \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 2\", but all data pertaining to them was scrubbed from \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3\").\n\nChevrolet cars were added making them the first American cars in the series, and a few new areas have been added: Yaesu loop within C1 and the Yokohama line.\n\n\nReleased in Japan, on March 12, 2014, Australia, on October 22, 2014, Indonesia, on December 15, 2014, and North America, on March 8, 2017. \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5\" is distributed as an \"upgrade kit\" for \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 4\" arcade machines.\n\n\"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5\" was the first iteration of the franchise to use the Namco System ES3 Arcade platform for the Japanese release, with the Export version continuing to use the Namco System ES1 platform.\n\n\"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5\" adds the Shibuya/Shinjuku and Ikebukuro sub-center lines, as well as the Mt. Taikan pass, and introduces two more car-makers, Audi and Dodge. Export versions notably have a large number of changes: the game uses the same hardware and interface as \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 4\"; some exclusive cars and two new car-makers were added while removing some other ones, and the sub-center lines were not added to these versions. The U.S. version is additionally segregated from Asia regions, takes out two more cars, and is officially called \"Maximum Tune 5\", without the \"Wangan Midnight\" part of the title. \n\nThe Japanese version of \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5\" has some exclusive soundtracks for its menus. While the \"Entry\" soundtrack for the Japanese version of \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5\" is completely different, the non-Japanese versions of \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5\" re-uses the \"Entry\" soundtrack for \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 4.\"\n\nReleased early in Japan on December 15, 2015, \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5 DX\" adds the Kobe area's Hanshin Expressway Route 3 as a new area. The Asian and Indonesian version was released on August 2, 2016, and the Chinese version was released on January 30, 2018.\n\nThe Japanese versions add back two more foreign car-makers only available in overseas versions of \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5\". The Ikebukuro course was redesigned due to a road along its route being closed down. The Export version adds back some of the content that went missing in \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5\", including the aforementioned sub-center lines.\n\nThe Chinese version skipped \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5\" in favor of \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5 DX\". \n\n\nReleased in Japan, on December 15, 2016, Asia, on July 19, 2017, and Indonesia, on October 5, 2017, \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5 DX Plus\" (stylized as \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5DX+\") adds two new car-makers (namely Lamborghini and Honda) and a new track, Hiroshima Expressway.\n\n\nReleased in Japan on July 12, 2018, \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 6\" adds Porsche as a new car manufacturer (which replaced RUF, after Porsche's exclusive 16-year license with Electronic Arts (since 2000) had expired), revamped Dress-Up parts, an increase in maximum horsepower from 830 to 840, updates to Story Mode that extend it from 60 to 100 stages, most similar to \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3 DX Plus\". \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 6\" also reintroduces new rivals which appeared in \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3 DX\" and \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3 DX+\".\n\nThe Asian and Indonesian versions were merged as the International version, as well as a new Arcade platform, known as Namco System BNA1 was introduced for the export version, with the Japanese release being an Upgrade Kit for the existing System ES3 platform. The export version was released during July 2 - August 7, 2019, in phases:\n\n\"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 6\" also introduces \"4-way Ghost Battles\", where players can choose from one to three Online ghosts to battle from. The selection can be done on the \"Wangan Terminal\", or on the \"Wangan Navigator\" app, as well as in-game.\n\n\"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 6\" also dumped the in-game currency \"Maxi G\" in favor of a system similar to that of the original Dress-Up system. The release of \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 6\" increases the number of cars a player can store on a Banapassport card to 200 cars per card.\n\nBandai Namco announced that they would re-add all eight of the aero-sets from \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5 DX Plus\", in a later update in \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 6\".\n\nA parallel companion app, \"Wangan Navigator\", was released to the iOS App Store and Google Play Store during July - August 2019 in different regions, aligning with the arcade releases.\n\n\nReleased in Japan on January 21, 2020, \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 6R\" is the first installment in the \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune\" series to use the \"R\" (as in \"Wangan Midnight\" to \"Wangan Midnight R\") suffix instead of the \"DX\" suffix (\"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3 DX\", and \"Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5 DX\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2125173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125173", "title": "R2T", "text": "R2T\n\nR2T may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2125178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125178", "title": "Norbert Kraft", "text": "Norbert Kraft\n\nNorbert Kraft (born 21 August 1950) is a Canadian guitarist, music teacher, producer and arranger.\n\nBorn in Linz, Austria, Kraft's family emigrated to Canada in 1954. He studied at the Royal Conservatory of Music at Toronto with Carl van Feggelen and later with John Mills and Aaron Shearer.\n\nAn international performer, Kraft has also recorded and (together with his wife Bonnie Silver, who is also a pianist and harpsichordist) produced many albums on the Naxos Records label. In 1994, he launched the label's Guitar Collection as producer and artistic director.\n\nKraft specializes in solo guitar pieces from the 17th to 20th centuries as well as concerto repertoire. He has published many arrangements and transcriptions of baroque and later solo and chamber music, including works for guitar and harpsichord. He has compiled and edited a series of graded technical exercises and repertoire for the guitar. These were published in 1978 as \"Classical Guitar Editions\" and were adopted as official curriculum by the Royal Conservatory of Music (Toronto). He is also a composer for classical guitar.\n\nHe has served on the faculties of Manhattan School of Music, University of Toronto and the Royal Conservatory of Music.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125183", "title": "MicroKORG", "text": "MicroKORG\n\nThe microKORG is a MIDI-capable virtual analog synthesizer/vocoder from Korg featuring DSP analog modelling. The synthesizer is built in such a way that it is essentially a Korg MS-2000 with programmable step arpeggiator (MS-2000 has only six simple patterns), a less advanced vocoder (8 bands instead of 16 bands found on the MS-2000), lack of motion sequencing (MS-2000 had three motion sequences), lack of an XLR microphone input, and in a smaller case with fewer real-time control knobs.\n\nThe microKORG was released in 2002 and is still in production . It is considered one of the most popular music synthesizers in recent history, with estimated 100,000 units sold as of May 2009. In September 2007 Korg released a limited edition of the microKORG with reverse-color keys although the functionality was otherwise unchanged. At NAMM 2008, a successor called the microKORG XL was introduced. Available since early 2009 it uses MMT Multi Modeling Technology from Korg's newer and more powerful Radias/R3 synthesizers. \nThe microKORG uses DSP technology to emulate the sounds of an analog synthesizer using firmware, and is based around the same engine found in the Korg MS2000. The fundamental unit of sound is, in Korg's terminology, a \"timbre\". This is generated with a pair of multi-function oscillators. Two timbres can be combined to create a four-oscillator \"layer\". This can be used to create more complex sounds, although it halves the polyphony from four notes to two. A single timbre can be played in four-voice. Oscillator one (OSC1) can produce one of several fundamental waveforms, including saw, square, triangle, and sine waves. Alternatively, OSC1 can produce a vox wave (for simulating human vocal cords), white noise, and one of 64 different digital waveforms that were created by harmonic additive synthesis. Some of these 64 waveforms were originally featured in the Korg DW-8000 digital synthesizer of the mid 1980s. The second oscillator (OSC2) is limited to saw, square, and triangle waveforms.\n\nEach waveform on OSC1 has a unique modulation feature, including wave morphing, Pulse-width modulation, and FM. OSC2 can be detuned, synchronized, and/or ring-modulated with OSC1 in order to create more complex sounds. OSC1 can also be replaced with the signal from one of the line-level inputs on the back of the unit, allowing external signals to be processed with the effects and filters of the microKORG, or potentially ring-modulated by OSC2.\n\nThe microKORG utilizes filters such as Low Pass (-12dB/Oct and -24dB/Oct), Band Pass (-12dB/Oct), and High Pass (-12dB/Oct).\n\nThe microKORG also uses effects such as flange, ensemble, phaser, and digital delay, which can also be applied to external signals. The unit also features two independent LFOs, with six different waveforms, which can be used to create more complex modulations.\n\nWhen playing a single timbre, the keyboard utilises four-voice polyphony. In layer mode it generally has two-voice polyphony, although one combination of polyphonic/mono layers allows for three-voice polyphony of the second timbre.\n\nThe microKORG groups its 128 factory preset sound patches into 8 groups:\nA large knob changes the selected sound group. Each group has 16 different patches (two banks of eight), selected by the eight lighted buttons on the front with a side A/B button to toggle between sets of eight. All patches are user editable, and do not necessarily have to follow the groupings listed on the face plate.\n\nThe direct successor to the microKORG, the microKORG XL, utilises MMT Analog modelling, and is based on Korg's own R3. The XL features a brand-new LCD display, and two Program Select knobs for easier access.\n\nThe microKORG XL groups its 128 factory preset sound patches into 8 groups:\nand several sub categories:\n\nNotably, the microKORG XL features 17 different KAOSS derived effects, including phaser, flange, decimation, vibrato, tremolo and retrigger.\nThe XL also features several included PCM Waveforms, including Piano, Brass Ensemble, nine Electric Piano and Clavinet, seven organ sounds (one of which emulates the Korg M1 Organ), a full String Orchestra, two variable formant waves and more than 32 digitally generated waveforms (SYNWAVE 6 is a ramp wave/inverted sawtooth.)\nThe XL adds two additional Waveform Modulation types: Phase Modulation and Unison (in which five stacked oscillators within 1 oscillator can be detuned and phased to achieve a richer sound.) The Unison Simulator is similar to the Supersaw waveform on the Roland JP-8000. The included \"OSC MOD WAVEFORM\" and \"OSC2 SYNC\" controllers are reminiscent of the Poly-Mod feature in the Sequential Circuits Prophet-5.\nThe microKORG XL also includes a waveshaper (uncommon in most synthesizers) which will morph the current waveform into an approximation of the waveform desired, resulting in a harsh sound. The waveshaper also includes a third oscillator (Sub oscillator.)\n\nAdditional improvements include:\n\nIn 2014, Korg announced the RK-100S keytar, which is essentially a 37-key \"keytar\" version of the microKORG XL+, with many external differences and only two internal differences. On the inside, it sports the same exact features as the MicroKorg XL+, except it has 200 program storage instead of 128, and allowing for the long ribbon controller to serve as a modulation source. Externally the RK-100S is radically different. It lacks the ability to edit programs from the unit; editing may only be done via a control app available for Mac and PC (or, if one is daring enough, it is technically possible to create ones own editor using the available MIDI messages chart). MicroKORG XL and XL+ patches may be downloaded into the unit one-by-one or en masse, allowing patch editing to be done on a microKORG XL+. \n\n\nEven though the RK-100S is not marketed as a microKORG, the fact that its synthesis engine is identical makes it ideal for microKORG users wishing to perform live without needing to have a keyboard stand restricting their movement around a stage.\n\nThe MicroKORG was released during the same period as several similar products:\n\nThe microKORG shared several features with the earlier, discontinued Quasimidi Sirius - in particular a built-in vocoder - although the Sirius used distinctively unique analog modeling - sample playback hybrid synthesis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125186", "title": "Spartan: Total Warrior", "text": "Spartan: Total Warrior\n\nSpartan: Total Warrior is a 2005 hack and slash video game developed by Creative Assembly and published by Sega for PlayStation 2, Xbox and GameCube. Released in Europe and North America in October, it is a spin-off of the \"Total War\" series.\nThe plot revolves around a Spartan warrior, secretly guided by the god Ares, as he fights alongside his Greek allies against the invading Roman Empire. While the \"Total War\" series traditionally focuses upon real historical scenarios, the plot of \"Spartan: Total Warrior\" is fictional, involving figures from both Greek and Roman mythology, and featuring anachronistic elements. It is also the only installment in the series to have been released for video game consoles rather than PCs or Macs. It was the first \"Total War\" game published by Sega, who had purchased Creative Assembly earlier in 2005.\n\"Spartan\" received a mixed reception. Although some reviewers found the game to be a glorified button-masher, and criticized the combat as repetitive, others praised the game engine and the scope of the battles.\n\n\"Spartan Total Warrior\" is a hack and slash game wherein the player is able to use two main types of attack; a simple attack which damages one enemy, and a radial attack which damages multiple enemies. The simple attack is fast and causes more damage; the radial attack is slower, but damages multiple enemies moderately. One button is used to initiate the single attack, and a different button to initiate the radial attack. However, each attack can be modified in certain ways; for example, rather than using the character's weapon, the player can initiate either an individual or a radial attack using their shield, their bow or their magic power.\n\nAs the player progresses through the game, new weapons are unlocked, each of which comes with its specific advantages. The player begins with a sword and shield, and a basic bow. The first new weapon is the Blades of Athena, dual swords which are considerably faster than the single sword. Later in the game, the shield is upgraded to the Shield of Medusa, and bow to the Bow of Power. The player can also unlock completely new weaponry; a war hammer named Death-Biter, and a spear named the Spear of Achilles. The Death Biter is very strong, but slow, whilst the Spear has a long reach and deals moderate damage, but combos are difficult to execute. The player character also grows in strength as the game progresses. At the end of each level, he is awarded tokens which he can use to increase his damage, health and magic.\nMagic in the game is in the form of \"Power of the Gods.\" When the player's magic tank is full, the player can use single or radial magic attacks, with each weapon having a specific magical power linked to its single and radial attack. For example, the Shield of Medusa radial magic attack turns all on-screen enemies to stone for a short period of time, whilst the Blades of Athena individual magic attack causes a single enemy to explode. Another important feature of the game is when the character lands a certain number of attacks, a rage meter fills, which, when full, can be used to unleash powerful attacks. Again, each weapon has its own specific rage attack, and the player has a choice between an individual rage attack or a radial rage attack. The player also has a bow and arrow, which can fire single arrows or multiple arrows. The bow can be combined with both the Power of the Gods and the rage ability to produce powerful individual and radial attacks.\nCombat tends to focus on large battles with multiple combatants. The player will often take on large numbers of enemies at once, sometimes with AI allies, sometimes alone. In the midst of battle, a small flash is placed on an attacking enemy's weapon to indicate the danger of an impending strike. Care must be taken to block incoming attacks in between offensive blows, hence the player must balance offence and defense to avoid taking damage. The player's shield can also be used to shove enemies back (again, the player has the option to shove back a single enemy a good distance, or perform a radial shove, pushing a group of enemies back a small distance). This allows the player to interrupt an enemy's block, or to shove enemies off ledges. Shield attacks are especially important for fighting enemies who themselves have shields, as shield attacks can knock them off balance briefly, leaving them open to attack. When an enemy has been knocked to the ground, the player can perform a one hit finishing move, which differs with each weapon. Using these finishing moves in succession fills the rage bar much quicker than landing successful attacks on standing enemies.\n\nIt is 300 BC, and the Roman army is in the midst of conquering Greece. Overseen by Emperor Tiberius (voiced by Kevin Howarth) from Rome, the army has subdued most of the country, with only Sparta remaining. The Spartan king, Leonidas (Bill Roberts), is preparing his troops for imminent invasion. Under his command is a man known simply as \"The Spartan\", (Qaurie Marshall) an orphan raised from childhood to be a soldier, who has developed exceptional skills. His closest friends are the brothers Castor and Pollux (Tom Clarke Hill and Noah Lee Margetts, respectively). As Leonidas rallies his troops, The Spartan hears the voice of Ares, God of War (Stanley Townsend), who offers him a deal; he will aid The Spartan in defeating the Romans and reveal his true identity in return for The Spartan delivering an unspecified revenge.\nLed by General Crassus (Jay Simon), the Romans attack the city with Talos, a bronze giant. However, The Spartan is able to destroy Talos with catapults. That night, Ares instructs him to infiltrate the Roman camp and recover the Blades of Athena, lost since the Trojan War. Accompanied by Castor, The Spartan is successful, and during the raid, they encounter Electra (Julia Innocenti), Queen of the Amazons, who was captured whilst tracking the Romans through Greece. Imprisoned in the camp, she had killed her guards and was escaping when she met Castor and The Spartan, who now has the Blades of Athena. Once back in Sparta, she demands to speak to Leonidas, telling him the Romans have built an incredibly powerful weapon, capable of obliterating the entire city. She is proven correct when Crassus reveals a weapon powered by an imprisoned Medusa, with the capability of turning entire phalanxes to stone in a split second. The Spartan fights his way to Medusa, and destroys the weapon, also killing Crassus and taking his sword and magical shield.\nAres then instructs The Spartan to go to the ruins of Troy and recover the Spear of Achilles. The Spartan travels through the Badlands north of Sparta with Castor, Pollux and Electra, saving a village from barbarian warriors under the command of Beowulf (Seamus O'Neil), whom The Spartan kills and claims his warhammer Deathbiter. Upon their arrival in Troy, The Spartan enters the ruins under the city, where he encounters Sejanus (Jason Isaacs), the Praetorian prefect who serves as Tiberius' right-hand man. Sejanus is also a powerful necromancer, capable of resurrecting the dead. The Spartan fights his way through the ruins of the city, and upon reaching the tomb of Achilles, he is once again confronted by Sejanus, who makes him fight a copy of himself, with the same abilities and knowledge. The Spartan again survives, and retrieves the Spear. However, before he and his allies can leave the city, Sejanus tells them Sparta has fallen. The Spartan is then attacked by the Hydra. Using the Spear, he is able to defeat it.\nThe group travel to Athens, seeking the advice of the scientist Archimedes (Jay Benedict), who is leading the Athenian Resistance. The Spartan protects Archimedes from Roman assassins, saves several resistance members from execution, and leads the people of Athens in a revolution, storming the mansion occupied by Sejanus and the Praetorian Guard, although Sejanus escapes. The Spartan then re-activates one of Archimedes' inventions, the Eye of Apollo, to power a lightning gun, which he uses to shoot down the dragon Ladon, resurrected by Sejanus as a flying steed. Once dismounted, Pollux attacks Sejanus, but is swiftly killed. Sejanus then turns him into a zombie whom Castor is forced to fight, whilst The Spartan and Electra battle Sejanus. They seemingly kill Sejanus and mourn Pollux, but celebrate as the Romans are driven from Athens.\nLeaving Electra in Athens to oversee Pollux's funeral, The Spartan and Castor travel to Rome, via the Gates of Saturn, a heavily guarded fortress in the Alps. In the complex, they encounter an undead Sejanus, who has returned from Hades. The Spartan kills Sejanus' priestesses, who were the source of his power, before killing Sejanus for good. The Spartan and Castor then continue to Rome and meet up with Electra, where they plan to assassinate Tiberius. The Spartan enters the Roman sewers and catacombs to infiltrate the city, while the others travel to the Colosseum, where Tiberius is attending a gladiatorial contest. They plan to kill Tiberius by placing explosives under his platform. After encountering and defeating the Minotaur in the sewers beneath Rome, The Spartan reaches the surface. However, the others are discovered and forced to detonate the bomb too early, missing Tiberius. The Spartan saves Electra and Castor from execution, and makes his way to Tiberius. However, Tiberius commits suicide out of fear of an unknown \"master.\"\nThe Spartan enters the arena, where he meets Ares, who tells him he is the son of one of Aphrodite's handmaidens. The handmaiden had revealed Ares' affair with Aphrodite to her husband, Hephaestus. Ares killed the handmaiden, but was banished by the other gods. Knowing Ares would want to kill the handmaiden's son out of spite, the gods decided to hide him among the humans. He was thus left in Sparta as a baby and granted superhuman powers so as to protect himself should Ares ever locate him. Unable to find the child, Ares manipulated Tiberius and orchestrated the Roman invasion of Greece, knowing the war would bring the child to the fore because of his abilities. The death of The Spartan is the revenge which Ares seeks. Ares and The Spartan fight, with The Spartan killing the god. Castor and Electra then arrive, and Castor, now King of Sparta, states; \"It was over. Our epic quest to stop Tiberius and the Roman Empire had ultimately drawn us to this moment. The Spartan had discovered his true identity, defeated the Empire, and battled a vengeful god to free his people. A warrior, a hero, a legend.\"\n\n\"Spartan: Total Warrior\" grew out of Creative Assembly's desire to do a \"Total War\" game on a console. However, the team quickly discovered that because of technical limitations, it was impossible to do a \"true\" \"Total War\" game on a console. In a 2012 interview with Eurogamer, Creative Assembly director Mike Simpson explained \"we couldn't fit a \"Total War\" battlefield, with 10,000 guys, into any of the consoles. It just doesn't work. You can't fit a gallon into a pint pot, it doesn't go. That's clearly been the main constraint.\" As such, the developers decided instead to do an action game in the tradition of the series; rather than the mass battlefields and real-time tactics gameplay in which the player controls a commanding officer overseeing the army, in \"Spartan\", the player would control a soldier within a smaller battle.\nAs soon as the development team behind \"Rugby\" completed that project, they began work on \"Spartan\". The first task was to create a demo. Designed by project lead Clive Gratton, the demo was created solely in order to determine whether it was possible for a console to handle hundreds of independently acting characters on-screen at once. The demo, which took six months to code, consisted of three-hundred Roman soldiers running over a hill with a castle in the background and the player character in the middle of the group. The demo ran at 60fps and had a draw distance of 750 meters, which was much deeper than Gratton had anticipated.\nOnce they had determined consoles could handle the game, the team began to work on the concept. They wanted to use aspects of the Roman Empire they had encountered in their research for \"\", but hadn't used in the actual game. They then began to speculate as to who would be a good theoretical opponent for the Romans. Gratton was a fan of the mythology that has built up concerning the Battle of Thermopylae, and decided that the Spartans would be the perfect protagonists. This also led the team into the realm of creating an ahistorical narrative, because \"Thermopylae is a historical story which has almost crossed over into myth. Yes, there was an outnumbered battle there which helped save Greece from the Persians, but the details have been lost.\" However, creating an ahistorical story was not something the team did lightly. Gratton explains;\n\nAs well as the work of Ray Harryhausen (particularly \"Jason and the Argonauts\"), the team also took inspiration from \"Braveheart\" and \"Gladiator\".\nThe technology behind the game relied heavily upon the use of a vector processor in the PlayStation 2 called Vector-unit Zero (VU0). According to Gratton, \"a large chunk of this game is written in hand coded assembly language on the vector units. It's a miracle of technology!\" He also explained that because the CPUs of both the Xbox and GameCube are so adept, although the game was developed on PlayStation 2 technology, it transferred straight across to the other consoles. Gratton was also keen to point out that no middleware was used at any point during the production of the game, and that the technological innovations were all based upon gameplay decisions; not simply to be innovative for innovation's sake.\nAlthough the game is played on a large scale, the designers were also concerned to make individual combat important. According to Gratton,\n\nGratton wanted the player to have multiple options at every point of the game;\n\nHowever, Gratton was determined to avoid the game becoming a button-masher, where the player could easily win by continually attacking. He also wanted to avoid the use of complex multi-button combos; \"creating a UI which was simple and yet allowed access to a large variety of clearly differentiated moves was a priority.\" This is where the idea of radial combat came from; the attack button performs different actions depending on which shoulder button is pressed, thus allowing the player to change their strategy instantaneously in battle, whether using the sword, shield or bow. Gratton says the depth of the combat is based on \"finger memory,\" with the combat system's simplicity being its strongest feature;\n\nThe game was officially announced at the Game Developers Conference on March 8, 2005, when Sega revealed they had partnered with Creative Assembly to publish a console spin-off of the \"Total War\" series. It was revealed the game would be more action orientated than other games in the series, and the player would control a single warrior throughout the entire game, rather than command a legion. The following day, Sega announced they had purchased Creative Assembly as part of their strategy \"to strengthen [their] emphasis on the western market.\" Sega also stated\n\nMore information about the game was released just prior to the E3 event in May. Two non-playable demo levels were shown, demonstrating the game engine's ability to create battles involving up to 170 soldiers, with advanced AI resulting in enemies and allies fighting one another irrespective of the player's actions. A new playable demo was made available at E3 itself, with Sega emphasizing that at any one time in battle, the player may have three or four simultaneous objectives. A near complete build of the game was sent out to gaming websites in August. IGN's Juan Castro wrote \"while unfinished, \"Spartan: Total Warrior\" looks good and plays well ... combat feels intense and moves at a fluid pace, running at a solid framerate throughout.\" GameSpot's Justin Calvert was equally impressed, especially with the absence of in-game loading; \"there are absolutely no load times once the action gets under way—which is no small achievement, given the sheer scale of some of the environments.\"\n\n\"Spartan: Total Warrior\" received \"mixed or average reviews\" across all systems; the GameCube version holds an aggregate score of 73 out of 100 on Metacritic, based on twenty-four reviews; the PlayStation 2 version 74 out of 100, based on thirty-three reviews; and the Xbox version 73 out of 100 based on thirty-six reviews.\nGameSpot's Greg Mueller scored the game 7.1 out of 10, calling it \"a basic action game with a heavy dose of button mashing and a little bit of task management.\" Finding the combat repetitive, he argued, \"even with the rage moves the combat can get pretty dull after a while.\" He was also critical of the graphics, writing \"detail is sometimes sacrificed to achieve that nice frame rate. The character models are blocky, and they don't animate particularly well. Additionally, all the textures are fuzzy and bland.\" He concluded, \"\"Spartan: Total Warrior\" is a pretty fun, though derivative, action game that should keep you entertained for at least the six or seven hours it takes you to get through the story. With just a bit more effort, \"Spartan\" could have been great.\"\nIGN's Juan Castro scored the game 7.9 out of 10, arguing that \"as exhilarating and action-packed as the game gets, it also gets mind-devastatingly annoying.\" He was particularly critical of the targeting camera when using the bow. On the other hand, he called it \"a technically great game. The engine pushes hundreds of units at once while offering a good deal of visual panache. There's little to no slowdown throughout the entire experience, even with explosions rocking the screen and body parts flying every which way.\" He concluded \"it does so many things right that it genuinely pains us to see the experience get bogged down by a handful of major annoyances. Creative Assembly crafted a marvelous game engine, too, one that affords spectacular encounters filled with more action, blood and \"Holy crap did you see that!?\" moments than we'd care to mention. It's therefore unfortunate that the unrefined targeting system, cheap boss battles and generally unhelpful friendly AI make the experience a mixed bag of exhilarating and exasperating moments.\"\nEurogamer's Kieron Gillen scored the PlayStation 2 version 8 out of 10, writing \"initially playing it is a shock, immediately having a scope which few PS2 games – hell, few games full stop – manage to match. Opening scenes with you as a soldier among dozens in the defence of Sparta are reminiscent of \"Call of Duty\"s Russian scenes. Epic is the word.\" He also praised the combat and the controls, feeling the game just about avoided being a button masher. However, he found it too difficult in places, and felt that often, the time between save points was too long. However, he concluded by referring to the game as \"a whole lot of slick, entertaining violence.\"\nGamesRadar's Brent Goodsmith scored the game 4 out of 5. He felt it was a button masher, arguing that attacking \"is executed via the trusted medium of button bashing. The developers will hate us for saying this, because they've pointed out to us on multiple occasions the non-bashy, all-skillsy nature of \"Spartan: Total Warrior\"s combat.\" However, he didn't see this as an inherent problem; \"regardless of how it is achieved, the result is much the same: oodles of rapid-fire killing and the satisfaction of hacking up enemies more numerous than in any console action game that has gone before.\" He concluded \"\"Spartan\" does things right out of the box that the première hack-and-slash series \"Dynasty Warriors\", about to release its \"tenth\" PS2 entry, has yet to achieve.\"\n"}
{"id": "2125188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125188", "title": "Giacomo Doria", "text": "Giacomo Doria\n\nMarquis Giacomo Doria (1 November 1840 – 19 September 1913) was an Italian naturalist, botanist, herpetologist, and politician.\n\nHe was the founder of the Museo Civico di Storia Naturale in Genoa in 1867, and director from then until his death. It is now named for him as the Natural History Museum of Giacomo Doria.\n\nHe collected numerous samples of plants, shells, butterflies, other insects and various animals in Persia with Filippo de Filippi (1862–63), in Sarawak with Odoardo Beccari (1865–66), in the Red Sea (1879-1880) and in Tunisia (1881).\n\nHe was an avid entomologist. In 1891 he was elected President of the Royal Italian Geographical Society.\n\nIn the scientific field of herpetology, he described many new species of amphibians and reptiles, including several he described with Wilhelm Peters. He is commemorated in the scientific names of eight reptiles: \"Agama doriae\", \"Ptyas doriae\", \"Gonocephalus doriae\", \"Homalophis doriae\", \"Latastia doriai\", \"Scincella doriae\", \"Stenodactylus doriae\", and \"Tropidonophis doriae\".\n\nSome other animals are named after him, Doria's tree kangaroo (\"Dendrolagus dorianus\"), Doria's goshawk (\"Megatriorchis doriae\"), Doria's cave beetle (\"Duvalius doriae\"), yellow Iranian scorpion (\"Odontobuthus doriae\"), \"Doria's frog\" (\"Limnonectes doriae\"), Doria's slug (\"Limax doriae\"), a species of harvestman (\"Nelima doriae\"), various species of weevils (\"Asytesta doriae\", \"Hoplopisthius doriae\", \"Rhinoscapha doriai\" and others).\n\nIn 1891, the Italian explorer Vittorio Bottego named after Doria, the main tributary of the Jubba River, that′s now called Ganale Doria River.\n\nHe was also mayor of Genoa for few months in 1891.\n"}
{"id": "2125190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125190", "title": "Regions of Togo", "text": "Regions of Togo\n\nTogo is divided into five regions (\"régions\", singular \"région\") (capitals in parentheses):\n\nThe regions are divided into 30 prefectures.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125202", "title": "Owen's Defence", "text": "Owen's Defence\n\nOwen's Defence (also known as the Queen's Fianchetto Defence or Greek Defence) is an uncommon chess opening defined by the moves:\n\nBy playing 1...b6, Black prepares to fianchetto the where it will participate in the battle for the . The downside of this plan is that White can occupy the centre with pawns and gain a . Moreover, 1...b6 does not prepare castling as 1...g6 does, and it is harder for Black to augment his pressure against the centre with ...f5, which weakens the kingside, than it is to play the corresponding move ...c5 after 1...g6. Owen's Defence accordingly has a dubious reputation. The move ...b6 has been played on the first or second move by grandmasters Jonathan Speelman, Pavel Blatny, Tony Miles, Edvins Kengis, and Normunds Miezis, and International Masters Bricard and Filipovic.\n\nInstead of fianchettoing, Black can also play his bishop to the a6–f1 diagonal (the Guatemala Defence).\n\nOwen's Defence is classified as code B00 by the \"Encyclopaedia of Chess Openings\".\nThe opening is named after the English vicar and strong 19th-century amateur chess player John Owen, an early exponent. Howard Staunton wrote in 1847 that 1.e4 b6, \"which the Italians call 'Il Fianchetto di Donna,' although disapproved of by the earlier writers, may be made by the second player without harm, if followed speedily by [...e6] and [...c5].\"\n\nUsing his opening, Owen defeated Paul Morphy in an informal game in London, 1858. An additional game in the match featuring this opening, where Owen varied on move 5, was won by Morphy.\n\nThe theory of Owen's Defence is less developed than that of other openings. This makes it attractive to some players, since their opponents will often be ill-prepared for it and hence forced to think for themselves. GM Christian Bauer observes: To be honest, I don't think Black can equalise as quickly with 1...b6 as he sometimes does in standard openings, and he may suffer against a well-prepared opponent. Then again, the well-prepared opponent is rare for such marginal variations as 1...b6, and in any case, with reasonable play I'm sure White can't get more than a slight advantage from the opening – a risk everyone is running as Black, aren't they?\n\nAccording to \"MCO-15\", after 2. d4 Bb7 White gets the advantage with either:\n\nBlack may also be able to transpose into forms of the Hippopotamus Defence, by playing ...g6 and ...Bg7, attaining a double fianchetto formation. This approach was used by GM Boris Spassky in games 12 and 16 of his 1966 World Championship match against the then World Champion Tigran Petrosian; Spassky drew both games. It had been developed and played by the Slovakian International Master Maximilian Ujtelky a few years before this.\n\nSpeelman vs. Basman, British Championship 1984:\n1. e4 e6 2. Nc3 b6 3. d4 Bb7 to a position more commonly reached by 1.e4 b6 2.d4 Bb7 3.Nc3 e6. 4. Bd3 Nf6 5. Nge2 c5 6. d5! a6 6...exd5 7.exd5 Nxd5 8.Nxd5 Bxd5 9.Nf4 Bc6 (9...Be6 10.Be4 wins; 9...Qe7+!?) 10.Bc4! \"gives White strong pressure\". 7. a4 exd5 8. exd5 Nxd5 9. Nxd5 Bxd5 10. Nf4 Be6 11. Be4 Ra7 12. 0-0 Be7 Watson and Schiller also give 12...g6 13.a5! as favoring White after 13...bxa5 14.Bd2 or 13...b5 14.Be3 d6 15.b4 Be7 16.Nxe6 fxe6 17.Qg4 Qc8 18.bxc5 dxc5 19.Bh6, intending Rad1, Rfe1, and h4–h5 \"with great pressure for just a pawn\". 13. Ra3 0-0 14. Rg3 f5 15. Bd5 Rf6? Better is 15...Bxd5!? 16.Qxd5+ Rf7 17.Nh5 with a strong attack. 16. Re1 Bxd5 17. Qxd5+ Rf7 18. Nh5 g6 19. Bh6 Nc6 20. Rge3 (see diagram) 1–0 White threatens 21.Nf6+! Bxf6 (21...Kh8 22.Qxf7) 22.Re8+. On 20...gxh5, 21.Rg3+ wins; 20...Bf8 21.Re8 gxh5 23.Bxf8!; 20...Ra8 21.Rxe7! Nxe7 and now either 22.Rxe7 Qxe7 23.Qxa8+ or 22.Nf6+ Kh8 23.Qxf7 wins.\n\nA pitfall for Black in this opening, the Matovinsky Gambit, dates from a game by the 17th-century Italian chess player and writer Gioachino Greco.\n\nGreco–, 1619: 1. e4 b6 2. d4 Bb7 3. Bd3 f5? Bauer calls this move \"simply suicidal\". Black gravely weakens his kingside in an attempt to gain , but White can win by falling into Black's \"trap\". Normal is 3...e6 or 3...Nf6. Also possible is 3...g6 (\"\" – Andrew Martin) heading for a Hippopotamus Defence, when Martin considers 4.f4 f5! (as in the game Serpik–Blatny, U.S. Open 2003) strong for Black. 4. exf5! Bxg2 5. Qh5+ g6 6. fxg6 (diagram) Nf6 7. gxh7+ Nxh5 8. Bg6# 1–0\nA better try for Black is 6...Bg7! Staunton wrote in 1847 that White got the advantage with 7.gxh7+ Kf8 8.hxg8=Q+ Kxg8 9.Qg4 Bxh1 10.h4 e6 11.h5. Over 120 years later, Black improved on this analysis with both 10...Qf8 (\"!\" – Soltis) 11.h5 Qf6 12.h6 Rxh6 13.Bxh6 Qxh6 Hendler–Radchenko, Kiev 1970 and 10...Bd5 (\"!\" – Kapitaniak) 11.h5 Be6 12.Qg2 Rxh5 Schmit–Vitolins, Latvia 1969, winning quickly in both games. However, White is winning after 7.Qf5! (instead of 7.gxh7+) Nf6 8.Bh6 Bxh6 (on 8...Kf8, White wins with 9.Bxg7+ Kxg7 10.gxh7 Bxh1 11.Qg6+ Kf8 12.Qh6+ Kf7 transposing to the 9...Bxh1 line below, or 9.Qg5 Bxh1 10.gxh7) 9.gxh7 and now: \nAccording to both Soltis and Kapitaniak, 7.gxh7+ Kf8 8.Nf3! (which Soltis attributes to F. A. Spinhoven of the Netherlands) is also strong: \n\nWatson writes that although 7.Qf5! is the \"traditional\" refutation and does indeed win, \"the analysis is complicated\", and Spinhoven's 8.Nf3! \"is clearer\".\nInstead of fianchettoing, Black can proceed differently by playing his queen's bishop to a6, the Guatemala Defence, so-named because the Guatemala Chess Club used the line in a 1949 correspondence game. Andrew Soltis writes that it has \"no other discernible benefit than to get out of 'book' as quickly as possible\". Joel Benjamin and Eric Schiller see some logic in Black's concept to exchange the light-squared bishop as soon as possible, as it often proves troublesome for Black in many openings. White gets the advantage with 2.d4 Ba6 3.Bxa6 Nxa6 4.Nf3 Qc8!? 5.0-0 Qb7 6.Re1 e6 7.c4.\n\nThe Guatemalan bishop deployment can also occur on Black's third move, from various transpositions. For example, after 1.e4 b6 2.d4 e6, 1.e4 e6 2.d4 b6, or 1.d4 b6 2.e4 e6, Black can follow up in all cases with 3...Ba6.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125227", "title": "Things Goin' On", "text": "Things Goin' On\n\nThings Goin' On was written in 1973 by Ronnie Van Zant and Gary Rossington, the lead vocalist and guitarist from Lynyrd Skynyrd. It appeared on the band's first album \"(pronounced 'lĕh-'nérd 'skin-'nérd)\" and expressed concerns about social and environmental issues, with especial criticism of politicians' role in such issues. The song was distinct from other contemporary protest-songs in that it utilized the sound of Muscle Shoals, Alabama blues licks made popular by both Eric Clapton and Duane Allman's honky tonk melodies, though this was in keeping with Lynyrd Skynyrd's country-rock image.\n\nThe first verse, which expressed concern about \"life in the ghetto\" is repeated at the end of the song, thereby placing emphasis on this particular issue. It also contains the line that gives the song its title:\n\nThe first line of the song is particularly pertinent in that it asks the listener whether he has ever \"lived\" down in the ghetto; support for segregation was still widespread in the southern United States at the time and Lynyrd Skynyrd risked alienating a large number of potential fans before the group became an established act.\n\nThe thinly veiled criticism of politicians' responsibility mentioned earlier in the song becomes more evident towards the end of the final verse:\n"}
{"id": "2125233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125233", "title": "Frescati (Stockholm)", "text": "Frescati (Stockholm)\n\nFrescati is a park-like area on the northern outskirts of Stockholm, Sweden. It is situated in an area on Norra Djurgårdsstaden. Frescati is part of the Royal National City Park (\"Kungliga nationalstadsparken\").\n\nThe name originated with Villa Frescati which was designed in 1791–1792 by the architect Louis Jean Desprez (ca 1743–1804) for courtier and diplomat Gustaf Mauritz Armfelt (1757–1814). The villa is named after the Italian city of Frascati, visited by King Gustavus III during his Italian journey. During the 19th century the name began to be used for a larger area in the vicinity of the house, and the Royal Swedish Academy for Agriculture established its Experimental Field there. It was followed by a number of other scientific and academic institutions, including the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, the Swedish Museum of Natural History, the Bergian Garden, a botanical garden, and eventually Stockholm University. Frescati (including the campus area) is today a part of the Royal National City Park.\nIn the middle of the area the Metro station Universitetet (\"The University\") and the equally named railway station are located. The railway station is situated at the narrow gauge railway Roslagsbanan. In 2010, the present railway station replaced two earlier stations, \"Universitetet\" (situated somewhat further south) and \"Frescati\" (usually spelled \"Freskati\"; situated somewhat further north).\n"}
{"id": "2125238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125238", "title": "Crackpot, North Yorkshire", "text": "Crackpot, North Yorkshire\n\nCrackpot is a village in Swaledale, North Yorkshire, England.\n\nIts name derives from the Old English \"kraka\" (a crow) and the Viking word \"pot\" (usually a cavity or deep hole often in the bed of a river, but in Crackpot's case it refers to a rift in the limestone).\n\nCrackpot Cave is located south of Crackpot in Scurvey Scar. It contains a fine example of a column - where a stalactite has joined up with its stalagmite. To get to it you have to pass along the aptly named Knee-wrecker Passage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125245", "title": "Stone Cold Crazy", "text": "Stone Cold Crazy\n\n\"Stone Cold Crazy\" is a song by British rock band Queen from their 1974 album \"Sheer Heart Attack\". The song is the eighth track on the album. Although the song was not released as a single at the time, it was played live at almost every Queen concert from 1974 to 1978. \"Stone Cold Crazy\" also features on the band's 1992 compilation album, \"Classic Queen\".\n\nThe song credit is shared between all the members of the band, although Freddie Mercury played it with his band in the late 1960s before Queen was created. The recorded version may be lyrics from Mercury and music from Mercury and Brian May. It was the first song Queen performed live in 1970, but it underwent many changes musically and lyrically before getting recorded, resulting in credit going to the entire band. Early versions of the song were much slower, according to the band, although no bootlegs exist.\n\n\"Stone Cold Crazy\" is known for its fast tempo and heavy distortion, thus being a precursor to speed metal. Music magazine \"Q\" described \"Stone Cold Crazy\" as \"thrash metal before the term was invented\". In 2009, it was named the 38th best hard rock song of all time by VH1.\n\n\"DRUM! Magazine\" called it an \"early blisteringly fast song\", describing Taylor's performance as \"straight-up punk-rock drumming. [...] In essence, Taylor's groove is a double-stroke roll split between his bass drum and snare drum with some cool accents played on his crash cymbals. Taylor later re-enters with a dramatic and decidedly non-punk fill to restart the groove.\"\n\nThree different remixes were created in 1991. The first two, by Michael Wagener, were issued on different pressings of the 1991 Hollywood Records \"Sheer Heart Attack\" remaster, and on the \"Encino Man\" soundtrack. The third one, by Trent Reznor, was released on several promo CDs in 1991/1992 and 1999. The Wagener remixes are not very different from the original and feature slight remixing of the backing track. Reznor's version mixes the Queen sound with the industrial metal sound of Nine Inch Nails. Reznor's remix includes studio sound bites from Queen at the beginning and end of the track. It was intended for inclusion as the ninth track on the cancelled 1992 Hollywood Records compilation \"BASIC Queen Bootlegs\".\n\nMetallica covered the song as their contribution to the 1990 compilation album \"\". This cover version was later used as a B-side of their \"Enter Sandman\" single and subsequently won a Grammy Award; it also appeared on their covers/B-sides album \"Garage Inc.\" The Metallica version of the song is more aggressive than the original; they also slightly altered the lyrics, adding two uses of the word \"fuck\" and changing the more humorous lines for more violent lyrics.\n\nJames Hetfield once performed it together with Queen & Tony Iommi of Black Sabbath (singing Metallica's altered lyrics) at the Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert. Metallica also played the song as an encore during their 1991–93 \"Black Album\" tour; it appears on the live CD \"\" and the 2009 live DVD \"Français Pour une Nuit\". Hellyeah played Metallica's version of \"Stone Cold Crazy\" on the 2007 Family Values Tour, sometimes referring to it under the title \"Stone Cold Wasted\".\n\nThe song is featured in the music video games \"\" and \"Rock Revolution\", as well as downloadable content for \"Rock Band 3\" and \"Rocksmith\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125254", "title": "The White Feather", "text": "The White Feather\n\nThe White Feather is a novel by P. G. Wodehouse, first published on 9 October 1907 by A & C Black, London. It is set at Wrykyn school, scene of Wodehouse's earlier book \"The Gold Bat\" (1904), and the later \"Mike\" (1909). Like many early Wodehouse novels, the story first appeared as a serial in the boys' magazine \"The Captain\", between October 1905 and March 1906. The phrase \"white feather\" is a reference to cowardice.\n\nIn the novel, Sheen, a quiet and studious boy, finds himself facing a street brawl between boys of Wrykyn and a gang of local toughs. He slips away to safety, but his cowardliness is noticed by his fellows, who ostracize him. He trains secretly under boxing legend Joe Bevan, hoping to restore his honour in the boxing ring.\n\nSheen, a studious and inconspicuous member of the Sixth form at Wrykyn, and his friend Drummond, a more popular student and boxer, go to the nearby town. They come across a fight in progress between Wrykyn students and some local boys over the upcoming election for the town's mayor. Drummond joins in the fight to help the Wrykyn side, but Sheen runs away. Drummond disapproves of Sheen running away and shuns Sheen later, but does not reveal to the other students that Sheen fled. However, Stanning, another boxer and Sheen's rival for the in-school Gotford scholarship, saw Sheen run and tells others about it. The students in Sheen's house, Seymour's, believe Sheen disgraced the house with his cowardice, and punish him by acting as if he does not exist. Sheen feels isolated and wants to restore his reputation.\n\nSheen goes back to the town with the idea of fighting the town hooligans and regaining his honour, but is easily defeated. Joe Bevan, a boxing trainer and former champion, breaks up the fight and saves Sheen from being seriously injured. Impressed with Sheen's determination, Joe suggests that Sheen start training with him to learn boxing. Sheen starts his lessons with Joe at the Blue Boar, an inn up the river Severn. That area of the river has been designated out of bounds for students who live at the school. Sheen secretly goes to the pub using a boat on the river. He is eager to learn from Joe and becomes more confident as he improves. One day while he is at the inn, his boat disappears as a result of the feud between the boys in the school and those in town. Sheen gets help going to and from the pub from Jack Bruce, a modest day-boy at Wrykyn who is still friends with Sheen and drives a car.\n\nSheen wins the Gotford scholarship, though this does little to impress his house. Seymour's has not had a successful athletic season, so Sheen hopes to win the approval of his house by winning the inter-house boxing competition for Seymour's. Drummond, who is considered the best boxer in the school, contracts mumps and is unable to compete for Seymour's. Sheen writes him a letter asking to take his place. Drummond doubts that Sheen can fight and denies his request, instead choosing Stanning to compete. Stanning wins the competition but then pretends he has a wrist injury so he will not have to compete in the inter-school boxing competition at Aldershot, since he is afraid of the tough competitor from Ripton School. Sheen is disappointed that he did not have the chance to redeem himself in the inter-house competition. Joe Bevan suggests that Sheen instead compete for Wrykyn at Aldershot. Sheen explains his situation to Mr Spence, a sympathetic schoolmaster who is in charge of some of the school sports. Mr Spence is initially concerned that Sheen would be seriously injured at Aldershot, but agrees to let him compete after Sheen demonstrates his skill to O'Hara, an Old Wrykinian and boxer visiting the school. Joe promises to go to Aldershot to give Sheen assistance and encouragement.\n\nSheen does well at the start of the competition, though he is disappointed Joe is not there. Sheen struggles in the final round against the competitor from Ripton until Joe appears and gives Sheen advice. Sheen wins and returns to Wrykyn. Seymour's holds a sort of court-martial against Sheen largely instigated by Stanning, but the house considers Sheen to be redeemed when they hear the surprising news that Sheen won the boxing competition at Aldershot. It is also pointed out that the house should not listen to Stanning since he is a member of Appleby's, not Seymour's. Mr Spence is obliged to report to the Headmaster that Sheen went out of bounds across the river for boxing training, but explains that Sheen had good reasons and tactfully refrains from mentioning that the training was conducted in a pub. Jack Bruce then tells the Headmaster that Sheen did not cross the river since he drove Sheen by car, so Sheen does not get in trouble for breaking bounds. Sheen is also friends with Drummond again.\n\n\"The White Feather\" was serialised in \"The Captain\" in six parts from October 1905 to March 1906, with illustrations by T. M. R. Whitwell.\n\nThe book is dedicated, \"To my brother Dick\", and includes a short preface by Wodehouse. The first edition included twelve illustrations by William Townend. The American edition was issued by Macmillan, New York, in December 1907, from imported sheets. Macmillan issued another American edition from imported sheets in October 1922.\n\nThe story was included in \"The Gold Bat and Other Stories\", published by Penguin Books in 1986.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125256", "title": "PaperClip", "text": "PaperClip\n\nPaperClip is a word processor for the Commodore 64, 128 (native mode), and Atari 8-bit family published by Batteries Included in 1985. In the United Kingdom it was published by Ariolasoft.\n\nBoth the Atari and Commodore versions shared the PaperClip name, but had significant differences. The Commodore 64 version of PaperClip was written by Steve Douglas and was rewritten for the Atari personal computer by Steve Ahlstrom and Dan Moore. The Atari version is based upon the editor in the Action! programming language by Clinton Parker.\n\nPaperClip is also the name given to the text editor ROM portion of the Commodore PET Execudesk office suite. The ROM was written by Steve Douglas as well.\n\nPaperClip does not use word wrap to display text on the screen, which \"Ahoy!\"s reviewer wrote was satisfactory for Commodore 64 users with 40-column displays but drew the ire of the reviewer for Whole Earth Software Catalog while highlighting OMNIWRITER's support for same. The Commodore 64 version provides an 80-column preview mode with text that was legible on a computer monitor, and supported a wide variety of Commodore and non-Commodore printers. The software was supplied with a dongle, a hardware key used for copy protection that plugged into the DE-9 joystick port. A keyless version was also available.\n\nOne unusual aspect of PaperClip is that the Control key functions more like on a hand-held calculator. You have to press and release the Control key, then press the key for the appropriate function.\n\n\"Ahoy!\" wrote that \"PaperClip is one of the most comprehensive word processing programs for the C-64\", but noted the $125 list price.\n\n\"Antic\" called PaperClip, \"by far the best word processor ever available for the Atari.\" In the December 1986 shopper's guide, a staffer wrote, \"We write and edit every word at \"Antic\" with PaperClip before transmitting the copy to our typesetter via modem.\"\n"}
{"id": "2125261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125261", "title": "Douglas Warrick", "text": "Douglas Warrick\n\nDouglas Warrick is an assistant professor in biophysics at the zoology department of Oregon State University, specializing in the study of functional/ecological morphology, aerodynamics, and the evolution of vertebrate flight, working with many bird species, including hummingbirds and seabirds.\n\nWarrick worked for a biological consulting firm from 1987 to 1992, including work on the Exxon Valdez oil spill. Today he continues to participate in studies of seabird mortality from oil spills. From 1999 to 2001 he was an assistant professor in biology at Minot State University in North Dakota. Since 2004 he has been at Oregon State University where his primary focus has been on hummingbirds and swifts.\n\nIn 2005, Warrick led a research study into the hummingbird's ability to hover in flight. Working with trained rufous hummingbirds (\"Selasphorus rufus\") that hovered over a feeding syringe filled with sugar solution, Warrick and his research team employed digital particle imaging velocimetry to capture the bird's wing movements on film, which enabled the discovery that the hummingbird's hovering is achieved primarily because of its wing's downstroke (which accounts for 75% of its lift) rather than its upstroke (which makes up the additional 25% of the lift). This was counter to the conventional wisdom which was that the lift was provided 50:50 by the up and down strokes as with hawk moths. Warrick's research was published in \"Nature\", a leading scientific journal, and his research conclusions were widely reported in the international media such as \"Scientific American\", the BBC, the Associated Press news wire, and the United States National Science Foundation.\n\nWarrick et al.'s \"Nature\" (2005) article inspired Jennifer MacMillan and Bradley Eros to create their own \"experiment\" - investigating the \"cross-pollination of scientific visualization and poetic document\". Their art work added \"star studies, satellite recordings, subaquatic and botanical investigations, liquid crystals, visual music performance generated from the scientific instrument, high speed motion studies, a discussion of subatomic physics, and readings of the 10 most beautiful experiments of science.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125269", "title": "James Ormond (administrator)", "text": "James Ormond (administrator)\n\nSir James Ormond \"alias\" Butler (died 17 July 1497) was the illegitimate son of John Butler, 6th Earl of Ormond. He was Lord Treasurer of Ireland from 1492 to 1494, and helped to defend the Lordship of Ireland against the forces of Perkin Warbeck. He was murdered by Sir Piers Butler on 17 July 1497. Piers would later hold the title of Earl of Ormond.\n\nJames Ormond was the eldest of three illegitimate sons of John Butler, 6th Earl of Ormond (d. 14 October 1476), by his mistress Reynalda O'Brien, daughter of Turlogh \"The Brown\" O'Brien, King of Thomond. In 1458 one of his younger brothers, John Ormond (d. 5 October 1503) married the heiress Joan Chaworth (d.1507), by whom he had three daughters. Nothing is known of his other younger brother, Edward Ormond, apart from his name.\n\nHe is thought to have been raised at court by his uncle, Thomas Butler, 7th Earl of Ormond. In June 1486 he was admitted to Lincoln's Inn. In 1487 his uncle, the 7th Earl, appointed him as his deputy in Ireland after the death of Sir James Butler of Polestown; however the appointment was disputed by the latter's son, Sir Piers Butler.\n\nIn December 1491 Ormond was sent by King Henry VII of England in company with Thomas Garth and 200 soldiers to defend the interests of the Crown against the pretender Perkin Warbeck, and was appointed Governor of both Kilkenny and Tipperary. In June 1492, having become one of Henry VII's councillors, he succeeded Rowland FitzEustace, 1st Baron Portlester as Lord High Treasurer of Ireland, and he and Walter Fitzsimons, Archbishop of Dublin, were appointed jointly as governors of Ireland, to replace the Earl of Kildare. The Earl's dismissal 'stoked the old Butler–Fitzgerald feud' until, in the early summer of 1493, Ormond and Kildare were reconciled in St Patrick's Cathedral, where Ormond had sought refuge, by shaking hands 'through a hole cut in the chapter house door'.\n\nTo forestall a second invasion by Perkin Warbeck, Henry VII sent forces to Ireland, and in September 1493 replaced Ormond and Fitzsimons as joint governors by Viscount Gormanston. Ormond and other prominent Irish officials spent the winter of 1493 in England at Henry VII's court preparing to defend Ireland against Warbeck. The King appointed Sir Edward Poynings as Deputy Lieutenant of Ireland, and he sailed for Ireland with a force of 653 soldiers. Ormond was replaced as Lord Treasurer by Sir Hugh Conway, but in recompense was granted several manors by the King, and returned to Ireland in June 1494. He was appointed Constable of Limerick Castle, and worked closely with Poynings, accompanying him on an expedition to Ulster in November 1494. In February 1495 the Earl of Kildare was arrested for treason. His brother seized Carlow Castle, which Poynings and Ormond besieged in the spring and retook in July. Warbeck and Desmond then laid siege to Waterford. Ormond brought troops to Waterford, and shortly thereafter Warbeck's support in Ireland collapsed. Sir Edward Poynings was recalled to England, together with most of his forces, and as a result Ormond assumed a greater role in Irish military affairs.\n\nHowever, in the spring of 1496 Henry VII decided to restore the Earl of Kildare as Governor, and Ormond was summoned to England in July of that year for a formal reconciliation between the Earl of Ormond and the Earl of Kildare and their supporters. The English troops which Ormond had commanded in Ireland were ordered back to England, and according to Ellis, 'Kildare favoured Ormond's rival, Piers Butler'. Butler alleged that Ormand was claiming to be the rightful Earl of Ormond, and plotting with Perkin Warbeck. Allegations of this nature prompted Henry VII to summon Ormond to England early in 1497 and again in May. However Ormond ignored both summonses, and was slain by his rival and kinsman Sir Piers Butler on 17 July 1497 'in a kind of impromptu duel near Kilkenny'.\n\nHis brothers were John Ormond, esquire, Sir William Butler of Gloucestershire, and Edward Ormond. James and his brother John were born in Alfreton, Derbyshire. They were the grandsons of the Irish King Turlogh \"The Brown\" O'Brien, King of Thomond (d.1460). He was knighted in 1493 by King Henry VII of England for services in battle for the Tudor cause. He held lands in Wiltshire. The year before his murder he was made an Irish peer by Henry VII. He was hailed as Earl of Ormond by the Irish, but never attained that title.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125282", "title": "Trevor Bailey", "text": "Trevor Bailey\n\nTrevor Edward Bailey (3 December 1923 – 10 February 2011) was an England Test cricketer, cricket writer and broadcaster.\n\nAn all-rounder, Bailey was known for his skilful but unspectacular batting. As the BBC reflected in his obituary: \"His stubborn refusal to be out normally brought more pleasure to the team than to the spectators.\" This defensive style of play brought him the first of his nicknames, \"Barnacle Bailey\", but he was a good enough cricketer that he has retrospectively been calculated to have been the leading all-rounder in the world for most of his international career.\n\nIn later life, Bailey wrote a number of books and commentated on the game. He was particularly known for the 26 years he spent working for the BBC on the \"Test Match Special\" radio programme.\n\nBailey was born in Westcliff-on-Sea, Essex. His father was a civil servant in the Admiralty. Bailey grew up in modest affluence: \"The family lived in [a] semi-detached house at Leigh-on-Sea, complete with a live-in maid on 12 shillings (60p) a week; they did not, however, own a car.\" He first learned to play cricket on the beach.\n\nHe won sporting scholarships to attend Alleyn Court Prep School, where he learned cricket from former Essex captain Denys Wilcox, and then Dulwich College. In his first year, aged just 14, he was selected for Dulwich's First XI cricket team. He came top of the school's batting and bowling averages in 1939 and 1940, became captain in 1941, and was top of the averages again in his last year at Dulwich, 1942.\n\nHe was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Royal Marines after leaving school; he was \"not enamoured of war, and won some reputation as defending counsel in court martials\". Though World War II was still in progress, he received an early discharge in January 1945 to return to Alleyn Court Prep School as a schoolmaster. He subsequently attended St John's College, Cambridge for two years, reading English and History and graduating in 1948. He won Blues for both cricket and football both years, 1947 and 1948. The Cambridge football team included Doug Insole, whom Bailey would later succeed as captain of Essex County Cricket Club.\n\nBailey made his first-class cricket debut in September 1945, aged 22, for the \"Under 33s\" scratch team, in a match at Lord's, against an \"Over 33s\" team, and made his debut playing county cricket for Essex in May 1946. He quickly became a lynchpin of the Essex team, and made his Test debut for England against New Zealand at Headingley in June 1949, taking 6 wickets for 118 runs in his first match.\n\nA right-arm fast-medium bowler, dependable right-handed batsman and strong fielder, often in the slips or at leg gully, Bailey played 61 Tests for England between 1949 and 1959. His swing bowling provided an effective foil for the fast bowling of Alec Bedser, and later Fred Trueman, Brian Statham and Frank Tyson. He is described as having had \"a model high, sideways-on action which encouraged outswing. At his best he could touch greatness...\" He took 132 wickets at the bowling average of 29, scored a century (134 not out) in attaining a useful batting average of nearly 30, and took 32 catches.\n\nHe is best remembered for his obdurate defensive batting, especially in matches against Australia. England were facing defeat by the Australians at Lord's in the Second Test in 1953. Bailey shared a defensive fifth wicket stand with Willie Watson, defying the bowlers for over four hours to earn a draw, taking 257 minutes to score 71 runs. In the fourth Test of that series, at Headingley, Bailey again played an important part in ensuring that England avoided going 1–0 down, which would have ended their hopes of regaining the Ashes. When the last day began England were 177–5 in their second innings, only 78 runs ahead. Bailey scored 38 in 262 minutes, and Australia eventually had to score 177 in only 115 minutes. They reached a point where they needed only another 66 in 45 minutes with seven wickets left. But Bailey went back to his long run and slowed the over rate, as well as bowling negatively wide of the leg stump, and Australia fell 30 runs short and the game was drawn. England went on to win the fifth and final Test and so regained the Ashes.\n\nHis best Test bowling figures of 7/34, bowling outswing on a flat pitch, enabled England to bowl out the West Indies for 139 in the first innings of the fifth Test at Kingston, Jamaica, in 1953–54, on a pitch on which the groundsman expected the home side to score 700. This enabled England to win the match and to share the series 2–2. He was vice-captain on that tour, and may be considered unlucky never to have been appointed captain of England. According to Alan Gibson: \"It is astonishing that so good a cricketer, so thoughtful a judge, and so friendly a man, should have been passed over.\" However, he adds: \"He is, or was in his earlier days, a man of contradictions, who sometimes enjoyed being irritating, to his captain, to his colleagues, to the public, but most of all to his opponents.\"\n\nHe played his final Tests in the Ashes tour to Australia in 1958–59. He had a bad tour, during which he scored the slowest half-century in first-class cricket, reaching 50 just 3 minutes short of 6 hours at the crease, in England's second innings during the 1st Test at Brisbane. This was the first Test match to be broadcast on television in Australia. He bagged a pair in his final test, the last of the tour at Melbourne, He was never selected for England's Test side again, but continued to play first-class cricket for Essex for another 8 years, and in the 1959 season became the only player since the Second World War to score more than 2,000 runs and take 100 wickets in a single domestic season.\n\nHis first-class cricket career began just after World War II in 1946 and lasted 21 years as he played 682 matches, taking 2,082 wickets at a bowling average of 23.13, which puts him 25th on the all-time list of wicket-takers. Bailey achieved the rare feat of taking all 10 wickets in an innings, for 90 runs, against Lancashire at Clacton in 1949. His 28,641 runs in first-class cricket put him 67th on the all-time list of run-scorers. He captained the county from 1961 to 1966. He was also the county's secretary (i.e. the chief administrative officer) from 1964 to 1969, having previously had a spell as assistant secretary. He arranged for Warwickshire to make an interest-free loan to Essex in 1965 which allowed Essex to buy its Chelmsford ground. This enabled him to receive a salary whilst at the same time technically remaining an amateur cricketer, although he was better paid than the club's professionals. However, Keith Fletcher, a playing colleague at Essex, did not begrudge him his salary, saying: \"...he was a better cricketer than the pros and someone instrumental in taking Essex County Cricket Club into the modern era. He was cricket and Essex, through and through.\". He supplemented his income by undertaking advertising work while playing for Essex, modelling for Brylcreem, Shredded Wheat and Lucozade.\n\nHe played football for Cambridge University (appearing in the University Match against Oxford), Southend United reserves, Clapton, Leytonstone and Walthamstow Avenue. At various times he played at centre-half, inside-right and on the wing. He was a member of the Walthamstow Avenue side which won the FA Amateur Cup in 1951–2, winning the final before a Wembley crowd of 100,000. The following season, he played in the side which reached the fourth round of the FA Cup. Drawn against Manchester United at Old Trafford, they drew 1–1, a fine achievement for an amateur side. The replay took place at Highbury, and Manchester United won 5–2. He later became a director of Southend United F.C..\n\nAfter retiring from cricket in 1967, Bailey continued to play for Westcliff-on-Sea Cricket Club for many years and also became a cricket journalist and broadcaster. He was the cricket and football correspondent of the \"Financial Times\" for 23 years. He was a regular on the BBC's \"Test Match Special\" from 1974 to 1999, where fellow commentator Brian Johnston nicknamed him The Boil, based on the supposed Australian barrackers' pronunciation of his name as \"Boiley\". (The \"Daily Telegraph\" gives an alternative source for this nickname from the pronunciation of his surname by the East End supporters of the Walthamstow Avenue football team.) During his retirement he would watch Westcliff-on-Sea Cricket Club play at their Chalkwell Park Ground where he had played many times for school, club and county.\n\nHe was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 1994 Birthday Honours for services to cricket.\n\nHe remains the only player since the Second World War to score more than 2,000 runs in a season and take 100 wickets, a feat he achieved in 1959, and he achieved the all-rounders' double of 1,000 runs and 100 wickets in a season eight times, a post-World War II record he shares with Fred Titmus. He was selected as one of the five Wisden Cricketers of the Year in 1950. He is also one of three players (the others are Fred Titmus and Ray Illingworth) to have scored 20,000 first-class runs and taken 2,000 wickets since the Second World War. According to the retrospectively calculated ICC cricket ratings, for most of his career, Bailey was the best all-rounder in the world. In the individual disciplines, his bowling saw him achieve the higher ranking, as high as eighth in the summer of 1957.\n\nDoug Insole, his one-time captain at Essex, described him thus: \"Trevor was quite a stroppy lad in his early cricketing years, and a bit of a rebel. He was a very intense character – we used to tease him about that in the dressing room, and he did mellow over the years.\"\n\nSimon Briggs wrote: \"There was little comfy or cosy about his cricket career. Rather, he fitted into a long tradition of hard-nosed English pragmatists – a lineage that runs from WG Grace, through Jardine and up to Nasser Hussain... To Bailey and company, the best way to honour the gods of cricket was to commit your heart and soul to the fight. For them, a Test match was a contest between two groups of warriors. Its entertainment value was almost irrelevant.\"\n\nHe was renowned for his slow scoring in Tests against Australia, Neville Cardus writing of one innings in his book \"Full Score\" (1970, chapter \"Cricket of Vintage\"): \"Before he gathered together 20 runs, a newly-married couple could have left Heathrow and arrived in Lisbon, there to enjoy a honeymoon. By the time Bailey had congealed 50, this happily wedded pair could easily have settled down in a semi-detached house in Surbiton; and by the time his innings had gone to its close they conceivably might have been divorced.\" He was nicknamed \"Barnacle\" for his implacable defensive batting.\n\nIn Cardus's piece on him in \"Close of Play\", first published in 1956, he was more complimentary: \"Some cricketers are born to greatness. Bailey achieved it... He conquers by tremendous effort... Yet Bailey... loves to attack any bowler... He has made catches bordering on the marvellous... It is no small thing to be a Trevor Bailey in a world of anonymous mediocrity.\"\n\nBailey died in a fire in his retirement flat in Westcliff-on-Sea on 10 February 2011. His wife, Greta, survived. They had two sons and one daughter.\n\nThe chairman of the England and Wales Cricket Board, Giles Clarke, described him as \"one of the finest all-rounders this country has ever produced\", while Jonathan Agnew, who worked with Bailey on \"Test Match Special\", wrote of him: \"dogged batsman, aggressive bowler. Intelligent cricketer. Wonderfully concise pundit. Great sense of humour.\"\n\nHe wrote the following books:\n\n\nAlan Hill has written a biography:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125301", "title": "Cephalic vein", "text": "Cephalic vein\n\nIn human anatomy, the cephalic vein is a superficial vein in the arm.\n\nIt communicates with the basilic vein via the median cubital vein at the elbow and is located in the superficial fascia along the anterolateral surface of the biceps brachii muscle.\n\nNear the shoulder, the cephalic vein passes between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles (deltopectoral groove) and through the deltopectoral triangle, where it empties into the axillary vein.\n\nThe cephalic vein is often visible through the skin, and its location in the deltopectoral groove is fairly consistent, making this site a good candidate for venous access. Permanent pacemaker leads are often placed in the cephalic vein in the deltopectoral groove. The vein may be used for intravenous access, as large bore cannula may be easily placed. However, the cannulation of a vein as close to the radial nerve as the cephalic vein can sometimes lead to nerve damage.\n\nOrdinarily the term \"cephalic\" refers to anatomy of the head. When the Persian Muslim physician Ibn Sīnā's Canon was translated into medieval Latin, \"cephalic\" was mistakenly chosen to render the Arabic term \"al-kífal\", meaning \"outer\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125320", "title": "Targoviste", "text": "Targoviste\n\nTargoviste ( ; ) means \"marketplace\" and may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125325", "title": "Princess Alexia of the Netherlands", "text": "Princess Alexia of the Netherlands\n\nPrincess Alexia of the Netherlands, Princess of Orange-Nassau (Alexia Juliana Marcela Laurentien; born 26 June 2005) is the second daughter of King Willem-Alexander and Queen Máxima. Princess Alexia is a member of the Dutch Royal House and second in the line of succession to the Dutch throne.\n\nPrincess Alexia was born on 26 June 2005 at HMC Bronovo in The Hague as the second child of Willem-Alexander, then Prince of Orange, and his wife, Máxima. The infant's uncles Prince Friso and Juan Zorreguieta, the Duchess of Brabant, Jonkvrouwe Alexandra Jankovich de Jeszenice, and Jonkheer Frans Ferdinand de Beaufort stood as godparents at baptism by Reverend Deodaat van der Boon on 19 November 2005 in the Dorpskerkin Wassenaar. \n\nPrincess Alexia attended the public primary school Bloemcampschool in Wassenaar. Since August 2017 she attends the Christelijk Gymnasium Sorghvliet in the Hague. Alexia speaks Dutch, English, and Spanish.\n\nIn February 2016, while on a skiing holiday with her family in Austria, Princess Alexia broke her right femur. She was transported via helicopter to a local hospital and had surgery to repair the injury. After a few days in the hospital she was released and required the use of crutches while she healed. Updates on Princess Alexia's condition were posted on the official website of the Dutch monarchy. The accident occurred in the same area as the avalanche which resulted in eventually fatal injuries to her paternal uncle and godfather, Prince Friso, in February 2012.\n\nAlexia's full title and style is: \"Her Royal Highness\" Princess Alexia of the Netherlands, Princess of Orange-Nassau.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125328", "title": "Arwon", "text": "Arwon\n\nArwon (foaled 8 September 1973, died 25 May 2007) was a New Zealand-bred thoroughbred racehorse by Aritzo from Fair Flash who won the 1978 Melbourne Cup at 5 years of age.\n\nIn New Zealand, he was known and raced as Flash Guy. Arwon won the 1978 Melbourne Cup, beating Dandeleith and Karu by a half neck. He ran in two more Melbourne Cups, finishing ninth in 1980 to Beldale Ball and fifth in 1981 to Just A Dash.\n\nThe name 'Arwon' was made from reversing the word Nowra, a town in New South Wales where one of the syndicate that owned him lived.\n\nArwon was initially trained by John Morrissey in Canberra before being sent to Victorian trainer George Hanlon, who prepared him for his Melbourne Cup victory, where he was ridden by jockey Harry White. He also won the 1980 Group 2 VATC Sandown Cup, now known as the Sandown Classic, and the 1978 VATC Herbert Power Handicap, both run over 2,400 m. Arwon started in 67 races, won 16 starts, was second 13 times and finished third five times.\n\nHe was the Melbourne Cup's oldest living winner until he was euthanized in May 2007 at the age of 33.\n\nUntil two years before his death, he took part in the annual Melbourne Cup Parade down Swanston Street, held on Cup Eve (Monday).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125331", "title": "Duffield Castle", "text": "Duffield Castle\n\nDuffield Castle may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125335", "title": "Monstermob", "text": "Monstermob\n\nMonstermob ltd was a UK mobile content company selling ringtones, wallpapers, games and full length tracks. Operating between 2000 and 2007 it was owned by Monstermob Group plc, which owned similar companies across the globe. The company was founded by Lancaster businessman Martin Higginson. Peter Armer was appointed as first chief financial officer (CFO)\n\nIn March 2007 Martin Higginson returned to the board as a director. He was brought back to the company after its new owners ousted the directors, including the former CEO and founder of Orange Plc, Hans Snook.\n\nSpanish internet firm LaNetro Zed announced the changes after completing buying up a majority 53% stake in the business and scuppering a rival takeover plan by Chinese mobile content group Linktone.\n\nAt the time, LaNetro Zed and Monstermob together became the largest company in the Mobile Value-Added Services (MVAS) market in terms of revenue. The enlarged company operated in 31 countries around the world employing 1,200 staff.\n\nMonstermob Group plc entered administration on 24 May 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125387", "title": "Dragan Lukić Lvky", "text": "Dragan Lukić Lvky\n\nDragan Lukić (born c. 1970) better known by his pseudonyms Lvky and Luky, is a Croatian singer, songwriter and music producer from Split.\n\nLuky became famous in the late 1990s as a producer for various young artists from Split, including the renowned rap band The Beat Fleet (TBF), which he was also a member of; he produced all their releases including their critically acclaimed album \"Maxon Universal\".\n\nLater he started a solo career through his debut album \"Ararita\", using songs influenced by Dalmatian ethno music. He sometimes also cooperates with the klape vocal choirs.\nIn October 2006 he released his second album \"V.I.T.R.I.O.L.\", which received good reviews from the critics and listeners. The album also earned Luky a Zlatna Koogla award as Best Producer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125388", "title": "Stephen Scott (composer)", "text": "Stephen Scott (composer)\n\nStephen Scott (born 1944 in Corvallis, Oregon) is an American composer best known for his development of the bowed piano (borrowed from C. Curtis-Smith, who invented the technique in 1972), which involves a grand piano being played by an ensemble of ten musicians who utilize lengths of rosined horsehair, nylon filament, and other utensils to bow the strings of the piano, creating an orchestra-like sound. Scott founded the Bowed Piano Ensemble in 1977, for which he composes. His work is associated with the minimal style of composition.\n\nScott studied with Homer Keller at the University of Oregon. He has taught music at Colorado College since 1969, and has been a full professor there since 1989. He has also taught at Evergreen State College and has served as visiting composer at the Aspen Music School, New England Conservatory of Music, Princeton University, the University of Southern California, and at several universities and conservatories in Australia and Europe.\n\nSeveral recordings with Scott's Bowed Piano Ensemble have been released by New Albion Records. Scott has performed and composed pieces in a thirteen limit tuning by Terry Riley.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125389", "title": "Academy of the Holy Names (Albany, New York)", "text": "Academy of the Holy Names (Albany, New York)\n\nAcademy of the Holy Names, or AHN, in Albany, New York, United States, is an independent, Middle States accredited Catholic girls' college-preparatory school for girls in grades 6-12. It is located within the Roman Catholic Diocese of Albany. The school was founded in 1884 by the Sisters of the Holy Names of Jesus and Mary. The mission of AHN is to prepare its students to become cultural, intellectual, moral, and spiritual leaders. Current enrollment for the 2019-2020 school year is 208 students.\n\nAcademy of the Holy Names has been a preparatory school in the Albany area for over a century, having first opened its doors as the Academy of Notre Dame on September 10, 1884.\nThe school was first located on Hamilton Street in Albany, but less than a year after its opening, the Sisters of the Holy Names of Jesus and Mary purchased property at 628 Madison Avenue and began preparations to move the Academy. By June 1890, Regents examinations had been given for the first time, and three students had become the first graduating class. It was not until 1899 that the Academy established by the Sisters became known as The Academy of the Holy Names.\nIn 1922, the Sisters purchased the Hennessey Farm on New Scotland Road, but it was not until 1957 that a school building was placed on the property. In that year, the Sisters opened a new high school building for grades 9 through 12 at 1075 New Scotland Road. The Madison Avenue building still housed the grade school and junior high.\nBy 1963, enrollment had increased to such an extent that the Sisters thought it advisable to maintain two high schools, one at Madison Avenue which was The Academy of the Holy Names and one on New Scotland Road christened Marylrose Academy. Eventually the high school on Madison Avenue was forced to close, causing the lower and middle schools (K-8) moved to the New Scotland Road campus in 1968.\n\nBecause of the long tradition of excellence in education associated with the name Holy Names and because of the common heritage of the facilities located on the New Scotland Road campus, it seemed appropriate to turn to a name that would signify the quality of accomplishment and unity of vision of the campus. Hence, in 1973, the campus became known as the Holy Names Campus, and Marylrose Academy became Academy of the Holy Names Upper School.\nToday the quality of education at the Academy continues to flourish. Holy Names students have the opportunity to participate in an academic program featuring flexible scheduling, interdisciplinary courses, service, and computer science as well as extracurricular activities including student government, publications and interscholastic sports. While continuing their commitment to tradition, both schools, the Upper School and Middle School, continue to move ahead in new directions. The 2009-2010 academic year, marked the 125th anniversary of Academy of the Holy Names.\n\nIn January 2016, it was announced that Academy of the Holy Names will discontinue Pre-K through 5th grade education at the end of the 2015-2016 academic year due to declining enrollment. Academy of the Holy Names will continue to flourish as a 6-12th grade institution.\n\nThis is said every morning during announcements, after a reading from Scripture:\n\n\"Blessed Mother Marie Rose, we firmly believe in the power of your intercession with almighty God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. We beg you to hear our humble prayers and to obtain for us the favors which we now ask in the silence of our hearts. God, our father, knows all, can do all things, and loves us. Sure of God’s love and strong in our faith, together with you, Blessed Mother Marie Rose, we accept God’s most holy will. Through Jesus Christ. Amen.\"\n\n\nBoth Varsity and Junior Varsity teams are offered, as well as one Freshman team for basketball.\nHoly Names competes in the following sports:\n\nCheerleaders at Holy Names cheer for the football and basketball teams of Christian Brothers Academy.\n\nThe school belongs to the Colonial Council Athletics Conference.\n\nPaige DeSorbo, reality television personality on the show “Summer House” on Bravo TV since 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125395", "title": "Attalea maripa", "text": "Attalea maripa\n\nAttalea maripa, commonly called maripa palm is a palm native to tropical South America and Trinidad and Tobago. It grows up tall and can have leaves or fronds long. This plant has a yellow edible fruit which is oblong ovoid and cream. An edible oil can be extracted from the pulp of the fruit and from the kernel of the seed.\n\n\"Attalea maripa\" is a large palm that grows from tall. Stems range from in diameter, occasionally reaching up to . Trees have 10 to 22 leaves with long petioles. Fruit are large and brown or yellow, with 2 or 3 seeds which are long and in diameter They are borne in infructescences which can contain several hundred to over 2000 fruit.\n\nThe species was first described by French botanist Jean Baptiste Christophore Fusée Aublet in 1775 in his \"Histoire des plantes de la Guiane Francoise\" as \"Palma maripa\". German botanist Carl Friedrich Philipp von Martius transferred it to the genus \"Attalea\" in 1844. Hermann Wendland moved it to the genus \"Scheelea\" in 1878, while Carl Georg Oscar Drude moved it to \"Maximiliana\". Otto Kuntze moved it to the genus \"Englerophoenix\" in 1891. Orator F. Cook placed it in its own genus in 1940, which he named \"Ethnora\" in recognition of Aublet's as a pioneer of the anti-slavery movement. Recent work has favoured maintaining all Attaleinae in a single genus, \"Attalea\".\n\n\"Attalea maripa\" ranges from Trinidad and Tobago in the north to Bolivia in the south. It is present in Colombia, Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname, French Guiana, Ecuador, Peru and Brazil. It is found in lowland forests and disturbed areas, on soils that are not usually flooded.\n\nThe fruit of \"A. maripa\" are consumed by a variety of mammals. On Maracá Island, Roraima, in the Brazilian Amazon, fruit were consumed by tapirs, collared peccaries, deer and primates. Rodents, including agoutis, fed upon the fruit and, as the fruit availability declined, they fed on the seeds. They also cached seeds for later consumption. Most species consume the pulp and spit out intact seeds within a short distance of the parent tree. Tapirs swallow the entire fruit and defaecate intact seeds further away from parent trees. Most of the seeds that were not removed from the vicinity of the parent trees were killed by larvae of the Bruchid beetle \"Pachymerus cardo\". Beetle larvae killed 77% of seeds that were not dispersed away from the parent trees, but less than 1% of seeds that were dispersed to tapir latrines.\n\nIn Trinidad, \"A. maripa\" is a characteristic species in the savannas that develop when forests are converted to grasslands through repeated fires. British forester J. S. Beard termed these savannas \"Cocorite Savannas\" (after the local name for \"A. maripa\").\n\nCarbonised \"Attalea maripa\" seeds have been found in archaeological sites in Colombia dating back to 9000 BP. The Huaorani of Amazonian Ecuador use the mesocarps for food. They use the petiole and leaf rachis to make blowgun darts and sleeping mats, the petioles for torches, the pinnae for kindling and the stems for firewood. In addition to using is as a food species, Kayapó of Brazil use the species as a source of salt, and value it because it attracts wildlife. The leaves are also used for thatching.\n\nEdible oil can be extracted from the mesocarp and kernel of \"A. maripa\". Oleic acid is the predominant fatty acid in oil extracted from the mesocarp, while lauric acid predominates in the kernel. About half of the fatty acids in the mesocarp oil are saturated and half unsaturated. The tocopherol content of the mesocarp oil was average (in comparison to other edible oils) while the kernel oil was low in tocopherols.\n\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2125421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125421", "title": "Shubhendra Rao", "text": "Shubhendra Rao\n\nShubhendra Rao is a composer and sitar player who is ranked amongst the top soloists of India. The press describes him as \"a musical bridge to many cultures\" and \"a thinking musician, constantly endeavoring to carry his instrument beyond conventional boundaries\". His music is \"an experience that is not aimed at titillating the senses, but to seize the soul\".\n\nA protege of Ravi Shankar, he is acknowledged by critics and connoisseurs alike as a worthy successor to his teacher's tradition.\n\nHe is a classical musician, as well as a collaborator, working with musicians from different genres across the world. He has performed at prestigious venues and festivals like the Kennedy Center, Carnegie Hall, Broadway, the Sydney Opera House, the National Arts Festival, the Theatre de la Ville, Dover Lane Music Conference, and St. Xavier's college Ahmedabad to name a few.\n\nShubhendra Rao was born on 26 November 1964 in Mysore city in the state of Karnataka in Southern India. From a very young age, he showed great talent for music. His father, N R Rama Rao (who was one of the earliest and closest disciples of Ravi Shankar), initiated him into the intricacies of the sitar. His mother, Nagaratna, is a trained Saraswati Veena player.\n\nAt the age of seven he took his first lesson from the master Ravi Shankar and continued to visit Shankar in different cities in India to pursue his musical education. The year 1984 was a milestone year in his life. At the insistence of his teacher, Shubhendra moved to Delhi to live with and learn from him in the true guru-shishya tradition. The years that followed were a period of introspective and creative metamorphosis. He tried to build in a discipline within himself, practicing from anything between ten and twelve hours every day. His teacher nurtured his talent, giving him deep insights into what it entailed to become a complete artist.\n\nAn important part of his learning was assisting his teacher in solo concerts and orchestras. As an 18-year-old in 1983, he performed on stage for the first time with his Guru in ‘Uday Utsav’ in New Delhi. In 1988, he assisted and performed in the orchestra ‘Live in Kremlin’ in Russia that has been released as a CD. In 1989 and 1990, he toured with the production ‘Ghanashyam’ in the UK and India. His first concert assisting his Shankar in his solo concert was in February 1985 in New Delhi. Between 1985 and 1995, he performed with his Shankar at numerous concerts all over the world, continuing to assist him in all his creative productions.\n\nIn 1987 Shubhendra gave his first solo concert in Bangalore, and since then has gone on to establish himself as one of the distinguished instrumentalists of his generation. Shubhendra has performed at some of the most prestigious venues like Carnegie Hall and on Broadway in New York, John F. Kennedy Center for Performing Arts in Washington DC, Walker Arts Center in Minneapolis, Des Moines Arts Center, Maui Arts and Cultural Center in Hawaii, Sydney Opera House in Sydney, Edinburgh Festivals in Scotland, at the Theatre de la Ville in Paris, WOMAD festival in Guernsey England, National Arts Festival in South Africa, Fajr International Music Festival in Tehran, Esplanade in Singapore among others. In India, Shubhendra has performed at major music festivals including Dover Lane Music Conference, the ITC Music Conference in Kolkata, Baba Harballabh Sangeet Mahasabha in Jullundhar, Shankarlal Festival and Gunidas Sammelan in New Delhi, SAPTAK Festival in Ahmedabad, and Vasantahabba Festival in Bangalore.\n\nA regular performer on Radio and the National Television, he holds a ‘Grade A’ status on the All India Radio roster. He is impaneled by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) both as a performer as well as a Guru.\n\nHe has also been invited as a guest teacher to give 'lecture-demonstrations' about Indian music by leading universities all over the world. Some universities include Peabody Conservatory of Music, Duke University, Yale University, University of Sacramento, Lewis and Clark College, University of Minneapolis, Winona State University, University of Nebraska.\n\nIn November 2007, he was awarded the \"Youth Icon for Classical Music\" by India's popular Zee Television Network.\nShubhendra Rao & Saskia Rao were also honoured with the \"Delhi Ratna\" award by the Art and Cultural Trust of India in December 2014.\n\nAn ardent and enthusiastic collaborator, Shubhendra has worked with musicians across genres. Some of the wonderful musicians he has composed for and collaborated with include Pipa Master, Ms. Gao Hong, Jazz Guitarist Nguyen Le from Paris, Jazz guitarist, Freddie Bryant from New York, legendary singer Ryoko Moriyama from Japan, Jazz flautist James Newton. He has also worked with Iranian musicians, Ciavash Borhani on Taar and Samer Habibi on Kamancha.\n\nThe press has hailed his collaborative work with his Dutch Cellist wife, Saskia Rao-de Haas as taking Indian music into a brave, new era.\n\n\n\nAs someone who is amongst the last of his generation learning under the age-old 'Guru-Shishya parampara', Shubhendra continues to teach those who seek him out. As an impaneled Guru of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations, many students from all over the world learn from him. Some of them stay for 6–8 years at a stretch, some spend a few months every year with him and others continue to learn from him all year round.\n\nThe Shubhendra & Saskia Rao Foundation is a nonprofit organization that stands for Music every child's birthright! The Foundation is a way to help under privileged children to realize their full potential through music.\n\nThey have introduced a new approach to music education in their specially developed curriculum for India: ‘Music4All: a Glocalizedmusic education to empower youth’. The Foundation is currently working with over 150 school children from the Nizamuddin Basti to empower them through music, conducts outreach programs for adults, teacher trainings and organizes random music events and concerts throughout the city.\n\nShubhendra Rao married Saskia Rao-de Haas on 3 February 2001. They are blessed with a son, Ishaan who is learning the Piano and Sitar, showing signs of the genes he has inherited.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125435", "title": "Burseraceae", "text": "Burseraceae\n\nThe Burseraceae are a moderate-sized family of 17-19 genera and about 540 species of flowering plants. The actual numbers differ according to the time period in which a given source is written describing this family. The Burseraceae are also known as the torchwood family, the frankincense and myrrh family, or simply the incense tree family. The family includes both trees and shrubs, and is native to tropical regions of Africa, Asia, and the Americas.\n\nJust as the family size (in terms of genera and species) differs according to the time period of the study, so, too, does its placement in the higher ranks. Nevertheless, the family is a genetically supported monophyletic group currently and frequently cited within the Sapindales and is recognized as a sister group to the Anacardiaceae.\n\nThe Burseraceae are characterized by the nonallergenic resin they produce in virtually all plant tissue and the distinctive smooth, yet flaking, aromatic bark. The origins of the family can be traced to the Paleocene (about 65 Mya) when \"Beiselia mexicana\" first diverged in Mexico. The subsequent divergences in the family lineage and migration of the species in the Eocene (53 Mya) from North America have led to the current distributions of the species that are primarily associated with the tropics. Though the family likely originated in North America, the greatest genetic diversity presently is in the Southern Hemisphere. Tabonuco (\"Dacryodes excelsa\") and gumbo limbo (\"Bursera simaruba\") represent the economic, ethnobotanical, and ecological significance of the Burseraceae in the Western Hemisphere, while frankincense (\"Boswellia sacra\") and myrrh (\"Commiphora myrrha\") represent the same in the Eastern Hemisphere.\n\nThe Burseraceae trees or shrubs are characterized by resins (having triterpenoids and ethereal oils; that are present within the plant tissue from the vertical resin canals and ducts in the bark to the leaf veins. In fact, the synapomorphy of the Burseraceae is the smooth yet peeling or flaking aromatic bark. The clear, nonallergenic resins may smell like almonds, but at least the most well known resins, frankincense and myrrh, have an odor that is distinct from almonds, smelling like incense. The leaves are generally alternate, spiral, and odd-pinnately compound with opposite, frequently long-petiolulate, entire to serrate, pinnately veined leaflets whose symmetry is distinctive in some genera. However, some members are known to have trifoliate or unifoliate leaves. The leaf and leaflet stalks and axis may be brown and scurfy, while the leaf base is swollen and may be concave adaxially. The family members tend to be without stipules. The determinate, axillary inflorescences carry small, radial, unisexual flowers. The plants tend to be dioecious. The flowers may have four or five faintly connate but imbricate sepals with an equal number of distinct, imbricate petals. Also, the stamens, that may contain nectar discs, have distinct glabrous filaments that occur in one or two whorls and in numbers equaling or twice the number of petals; the tricolporate pollen is contained within two locules of the anthers that open longitudinally along slits. The gynoecium contains 3–5 connate carpels, one style, and one stigma that is head-like to lobed. Each locule of the superior ovary has two ovules with axile placentation that are anatropous to campylotropous. The one- to five-pitted fruit is a drupe that opens at maturity. The endosperm is usually lacking in the embryo.\n\nSome discrepancy exists in the literature about the size of the Burseraceae. Records say that the family has 17 to 18 genera and 500 to 540 to 726 species. Other authors cite different numbers: 16–20 genera and 600 species; 20 genera and 500–600 species; According to a pollen studies and molecular data, the family is split into three tribes: the Protieae, Bursereae, and Canarieae. The Protieae are composed of \"Protium\" (147 species and largest in this tribe), \"Crepidospermum, Garuga\", and \"Tetragastris\". The Bursereae, which are further split into subtribes Boswelliinae and Burserinae, contain \"Commiphora\" (nearly 200 species and largest in the family), \"Aucoumea, Beiselia, Boswellia, Bursera,\" and \"Triomma\". Finally, the Canarieae are composed of \"Canarium\" (75 species and largest in this tribe), \"Dacryodes, Haplolobus, Pseudodacryodes, Rosselia, Santiria, Scutinanthe\", and \"Trattinnickia\". The morphology of the fruit, which is a drupe, helps to distinguish between the three tribes. Though the groupings have slightly changed since the 1990s, the Protieae are described as having a two- to five-parted drupe with either ‘free or adhering parts’ which are ‘not fused in the endocarp’; The Bursereae are described as having a drupe with parts that are fused in the endocarp, but an exocarp with dehiscing valves; and the Canarieae as simply having a drupe with parts that are fused in the endocarp.\n\nThis is a list of the 19 genera of the Burseraceae with placement in three tribes (and subtribes where applicable):\n\n\n\nAccording to the literature, the Burseraceae have not been lumped with other families nor split up into several others. However, they have jumped orders several times. For example, in the early 19th century, the family seems to have been placed in the Burserales, with the Anacardiaceae and Podoaceae. In the mid-19th century and early 20th century, the family was placed in the Geraniales. Then, by the mid- and late-20th century, the family was moved to the Rutales. Finally, in the late 20th century, the family was (and today still is) located within the Sapindales. Families that are consistently found in the same order as the Burseraceae (except when in the Burserales) include the Rutaceae, Meliaceae, and Simaroubaceae. Only in recent studies were the Burseraceae and the Anacardiaceae seen as sister groups.\n\nThe Sapindales are contained within the malvids of the rosid clade within the eudicotyledons. The order contains nine to 15 families, 460 genera, and from 5,400 to 5,670 to 5,800 species. The currently recognized families include Aceraceae, Anacardiaceae, Burseraceae, Hippocastanaceae, Julianaceae, Meliaceae, Rutaceae, Sapindaceae, and Simaroubaceae. The Sapindales are a clade supported by DNA-based analyses on \"rbc\"L, \"atp\"B, and 18S sequences. Within the Sapindales are two clades that contain gum and resin: the Rutaceae-Meliaceae-Simaroubaceae clade and the Burseraceae-Anacardiaceae clade. Therefore, the Burseraceae are not the only family with this characteristic. The synapomorphies of the Sapindales include pinnately compound, alternate and spiral leaves that may be palmately compound, trifoliate, or unifoliate, and small four- or five-merous flowers having a characteristic nectar disk and imbricate petals and sepals. Some of these characteristics also occur in the Rosales. However, the Sapindales and Rutales may actually form a complex, since many families jump between them. Indeed, \"rbc\"L sequence studies seem to indicate that a sapindalean/rutalean complex exists and may better represent the relationships of the families than the separate orders would. A study based on chloroplast-encoded gene \"rbc\"L reconstructed cladograms that include families within both the Sapindales and Rutales. One such cladogram indicated that the Sapindales are robust and that the Burseraceae (and Anacardiaceae) are within a single clade. This grouping seems to make sense as both the Burseraceae and Anacardiaceae have secretory canals in the phloem and resin canals in the leaves, and are unique in the Sapindales for having biflavones in the leaf tissue. However, the two families have several distinguishing characteristics. The resin of the Burseraceae is nonallergenic and two ovules per carpel occur, whereas the resin of the Anacardiaceae can be allergenic or poisonous and one ovule per carpel is found. The Burseraceae-Anacardiaceae clade is sister to a robust cluster of three other families, the Sapindaceae-Aceraceae-Hippocastanaceae clade. The Rutaceae-Meliaceae-Simaroubaceae clade is sister to the Burseraceae-Anacardiaceae and Sapindaceae-Aceraceae-Hippocastanaceae clade. The \"rbc\"L technique is supported and considered acceptable until other methods become better developed for the analysis.\n\nThe Burseraceae are distributed throughout the world and primarily in the tropics, especially Malaysia, Africa, and Central and South America. The three tribes can be linked to a specific region of the world, although this is not obligatory. For example, members of the tribe Protieae are generally found in South America, those of the Bursereae are found in Africa and Mesoamerica, while members of the Canarieae are found in Malaysia. However, each tribe has a representative genus present in all the tropical regions: \"Dacryodes\" (Canarieae), \"Protium\" (Protieae), and \"Commiphora\" (Bursereae). The Burseraceae are found in a variety of habitats, including hot, dry desert and savannah, as well as in coastal mangrove forest and rain forest habitats. One study found that the family originated in North America during the Paleocene (about 65 Mya), when the earliest fossils of the Sapindales are found. During the Early to Middle Eocene (about 53 Mya), family members dispersed to eastern Laurasia (i.e. Europe and Asia) via the Boreotropical Land Bridge and the continents in the Southern Hemisphere, which is now the area of the greatest generic diversity of this family.\n\nMore specifically, the earliest diverging genus was \"Beiselia\" (of the Bursereae subtribe Boswelliinae) in either North America, Mexico, or the Caribbean in the Paleocene. Similar results from other studies find that \"Beiselia mexicana\", a native of Mexico, is basal to the remaining Burseraceae. These results may indicate that the family originated in Mexico. The next divergence was in the Early Eocene when the Burserinae (i.e. \"Commiphora\") diverged and emigrated from North America into Africa, Madagascar, and India. \"Commiphora\" dispersed throughout Africa during the Middle Eocene (about 44 Mya) and from Africa to Madagascar during the Oligocene (about 30 Mya) via the Mozambique Channel Land Bridge; the spread to India was more recent (about 5 Mya). The Canarieae and Boswelliinae (subtribes of Bursereae) dispersed from western Laurasia and spread eastward during the Eocene; fossils of Canarium, for example, from the Czech Republic date to the Late Oligocene (23 Mya). Finally, the Protieae originated in North America like the rest of the family, then migrated to Africa and Asia through the Tethys seaway in the Late Eocene (about 37 Mya), but then made its way back to South America via long-distance dispersal. By the late Oligocene (about 23Mya), all three Burseraceae tribes were extant and dispersed throughout the Northern Hemisphere.\n\nThe mechanism of seed dispersal via animal link vectors (endozoochoric dispersal) may explain how most Burseraceae were able to expand their range so efficiently across the globe. \"Beiselia, Boswellia\", and \"Triomma\" have dry fruits better suited for wind dispersal, but most Burseraceae have fleshy, edible fruit that is eaten by many animal dispersers. The seeds may provide a high reward in fat (24–73%) and protein (2.7–25.9%) if digested, but many animals eat just the fleshy part of the fruit and either discard the endocarp right away or excrete it some time later. Some known Burseraceae fruit consumers include hornbills (\"Buceros bicornis, Ceratogyma atrata, C. cylindricus, Penelopides panini\"), oilbirds (\"Steatnoris caripensis\"), fruit pigeons, warblers, vireos, orioles, flycatchers, tanagers, woodpeckers, loeries, primates (\"Cercopithecus\" spp., \"Lophocebus albigena\"), lemurs (\"Varecia variegate\" subsp. \"variegate\"), and sun bears (\"Helarctos malayanus\"). The fruits may also have been water dispersed.\n\nSeveral representative species within the Burseraceae typify the economic and ethnobotanic significance of the family. First, \"Dacryodes excelsa\" of the Canarieae is an important old-growth species found in the Caribbean. Second, \"Bursera simaruba\" of the Burserinae is a fast-growing ornamental that is one of a few representatives of the primarily tropical family in the United States. Finally, the namesakes of the family \"Boswellia carterii\" (frankincense) and \"Commiphora abyssinica\" (myrrh) are important economically and medicinally in several parts of the world. Though this is a small subset of the large number of potentially important species, these four members exemplify the wide use and importance of the Burseraceae. The latter three are frequently cited in the literature for their renowned importance.\n\nCommonly known as tabonuco (or gommier, also candlewood), \"Dacryodes excelsa\" is a large, dominant tree found in Puerto Rico and other parts of the Caribbean. The seeds of the tree are a source of food for birds. Like all members, the tree releases sap from the bark when wounded. The clear sap oozes from the tree and hardens to a white, aromatic waxy resin that can be used to make candles and incense. Before the arrival of the Spaniards to Puerto Rico, the native Taínos used the resin to make torches. The wood itself is useful for constructing housing, furniture, boxes, small boats, and a variety of other wood-based products; the utility of the wood is comparable to that of mahogany and birch. In addition, species like \"Canarium littorale, Dacryodes costata, Santiria laevigata,\" and Santiria tomentosa from Malaysia, as well as \"Aucoumea klaineana\" and \"Canarium schweinfurthii\" from Africa, also produce valuable wood for construction projects and carpentry.\n\nSeveral species in the genus \"Canarium\" are used as edible fruits (for example, \"Canarium album\", the Chinese olive) and nuts (pili nuts, \"Canarium ovatum\").\nSpecies in the genus \"Bursera\", especially the so-called elephant tree, grow primarily in Mexico, where their secretions are a raw material in making varnish. The Maya also used a \"Bursera\" sp. to make incense. However, the \"Bursera\" may also be considered an ornamental genus and a common representative of the family in the United States, especially in Florida (\"B. simaruba\") and the Southwest (\"B. odorata, B. microphylla\").\n\nNaked Indian (also known as gumbo limbo), or \"Bursera simaruba\", in particular, is found in Florida, Mexico, the Caribbean, Venezuela, and Brazil. The tree is also named the ‘tourist tree’ for its very distinctive flaking red bark; apparently, the tree occurs in tropical areas where many white tourists go on vacation. The resin from this tree can be used to make varnish and turpentine. In addition, the resin may also be used similarly to tiger balm (containing \"Cinnamomum camphora\" of the Lauraceae) to relieve sprains and muscle aches. The leaves are used to brew a tea to relieve inflammation. The bark serves as an antidote to skin irritation caused by \"Metopium toxiferum\" (also known as poisonwood, Florida poison tree, and hog gum) of the Anacardiaceae. The gumbo limbo grows quickly and can be used to make a living fence especially out of cut limbs that are placed straight into the ground or for restoration projects as a pioneer species. The tree is highly tolerant of high-intensity wind such as hurricane-force winds, so is planted in areas where hurricanes occur frequently, such as Florida and the Caribbean. The seeds of this species are also a source of food for birds.\nFrankincense, or olibanum, (\"Boswellia carterii\") and myrrh (\"Commiphora abyssinica\") have long been valued for the aromatic resins they produce. These resins are extracted via tapping, or cutting of the bark to make it release sap. The liquid sap hardens and is gathered, sold as is or further processed and mixed with spices, seeds, and roots to make various forms of incense. Both species are native to parts of Northeast Africa (Somalia, frankincense; Somalia and Ethiopia, myrrh) and Arabia (Oman and Yemen, frankincense), but their distribution and use have been extended beyond these regions to India and China. The best frankincense is grown in Oman and the incense is widely used in worship in India. The ancient Egyptians prized frankincense for the resin they used to make the characteristic dark eyeliner and myrrh as an embalming agent for deceased pharaohs. At that time, myrrh was worth more than gold. In modern times resins from these trees are used in Chinese herbal medicine and Indian Ayurvedic medicine to treat several ailments. Pills containing small doses of frankincense and other ingredients are valued in oriental medicine for promoting blood flow and the movement of the \"qi\" (‘life force’ or ‘spiritual energy’). and myrrh is similarly claimed to promote blood flow, stimulate the stomach and digestion, and to be useful in treating diabetes, menopause, uterine tumors, amenorrhoea, and dysmenorrhea. Both frankincense (containing triterpene acids) and myrrh are used to relieve pain and inflammation as in arthritis and asthma.\n"}
{"id": "2125437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125437", "title": "Academy of the Holy Names", "text": "Academy of the Holy Names\n\nAcademy of the Holy Names may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2125444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125444", "title": "Brian Cass", "text": "Brian Cass\n\nBrian Cass is the managing director of Huntingdon Life Sciences, a contract research organisation company based in Huntingdon in the United Kingdom and New Jersey in the United States. Before moving to Huntingdon Life Sciences, Cass was the managing director of Covance Laboratories Ltd. He was awarded a CBE in 2002.\n\nHe was appointed to the Board of Huntingdon as Managing Director/Chief Operating Officer in 1998. He became a Director and Managing Director/President of LSR Inc in 2002. He has held directorships with North Yorkshire Training & Enterprise Council Ltd and Business Link North Yorkshire Ltd. He was elected to be a Vice President of the Institute of Animal Technology in 2009. In the time Cass has been managing director at Huntingdon Life Sciences, he has doubled the company’s revenues from $93m in 1999 to $191m in 2009.\n\n\nHuntingdon Life Sciences has been the target Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty since 1999, a campaign run by British and American animal-rights activists, who seek to close the company down for its treatment of, and experimentation upon, live animals.\n\nThe campaign has included acts of intimidation and violence, including against Cass, who sustained head injuries when he was attacked outside his home on 22 February 2001 by three people armed with pickaxe handles and CS gas. A neighbour who tried to help him was sprayed with the gas. Detective Chief Inspector Tom Hobbs of Cambridgeshire police told reporters:\"It's only by sheer luck that we are not beginning a murder inquiry.\" David Blenkinsop, who had previously engaged in actions using the name of the Animal Liberation Front, was jailed for three years for the attack.\n"}
{"id": "2125458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125458", "title": "Blood and Sand (1922 film)", "text": "Blood and Sand (1922 film)\n\nBlood and Sand is a 1922 American silent drama film produced by Paramount Pictures, directed by Fred Niblo and starring Rudolph Valentino, Lila Lee, and Nita Naldi. It was based on the 1909 Spanish novel \"Sangre y arena\" (\"Blood and Sand\") by Vicente Blasco Ibáñez and the play version of the book by Thomas Cushing.\n\nJuan Gallardo (Valentino), a village boy born into poverty, grows up to become one of the greatest matadors in Spain. He marries a friend from his childhood, the beautiful and virtuous Carmen (Lee), but after he achieves fame and fortune he finds himself drawn to Doña Sol (Naldi), a wealthy, seductive widow.\n\nThey embark on a torrid affair with sadomasochistic overtones, but Juan, feeling guilty over his betrayal of Carmen, tries to free himself of Doña Sol. Furious at being rejected, she exposes their affair to Carmen and Juan's mother, seemingly destroying his marriage. Growing more and more miserable and dissipated, Juan becomes reckless in the arena. He is eventually killed in a bullfight but does manage to reconcile with Carmen moments before he dies.\n\nThere is also a subplot involving a local outlaw whose career is paralleled to Juan's throughout the film by the village philosopher: Juan's fatal injury in the bullring comes moments after the outlaw is shot by the police.\n\n\nThe film was produced by Famous Players-Lasky Corporation and Paramount Pictures, and distributed by Paramount. June Mathis, who has been credited as discovering Valentino, adapted the novel for the screen.\n\nDorothy Arzner worked as the film's editor. Arnzer, who would later become one of the first female film directors, used stock footage of bullfights filmed in Madrid interspersed with close-ups of Valentino. Her work on the film helped to solidify her reputation of being a resourceful editor as her techniques also saved Paramount money. She would later say that working on the film was the \"first waymark to my claim to a little recognition as an individual.\"\n\n\"Blood and Sand\" premiered at the Rialto Theater in Los Angeles on August 22, 1922. The film was a box office hit and was one of the top-grossing films of 1922. The film, along with \"The Sheik\" and \"Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse\" (both 1921), helped to establish Valentino as a star and was one of the most successful films of his career. \"In my judgement it is the best thing he has done,\" said Mary Pickford of Valentino's performance, \"and one of Mr. Niblo's finest pictures. It is one of the few pictures I have been able to sit through twice and enjoy the second time more than the first.\"\n\nAn earlier version of \"Blood and Sand\" was released in 1916, and filmed by Blasco Ibáñez himself, with the help of Max André. This earlier version was restored in 1998 by the Filmoteca de la Generalitat Valenciana (Spain).\n\"Blood and Sand\" has also been remade twice; a 1941 version was directed by Rouben Mamoulian and stars Tyrone Power, Linda Darnell, and Rita Hayworth. The 1989 Spanish remake was directed by Javier Elorrieta and stars Chris Rydell, Sharon Stone, and Ana Torrent.\n\nThe film was the source of legendary football player Johnny \"Blood\" McNally's nickname - he started playing professional under an alias to protect his remaining college eligibility. He and a friend passed a theater where \"Blood and Sand\" was playing. Suddenly, McNally exclaimed to his friend, \"That's it! You be Sand. I'll be Blood\".\n\n\"Blood and Sand\" was parodied by Stan Laurel in \"Mud and Sand\" (1922). In the film, Laurel portrays a character named Rhubarb Vaselino. Will Rogers also parodied \"Blood and Sand\" in the Hal Roach short film \"Big Moments From Little Pictures\" (1924).\n\nThe film gave its name to a popular Prohibition-era cocktail, the Blood and Sand.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125468", "title": "Ludus (band)", "text": "Ludus (band)\n\nLudus was a British post-punk band formed in Manchester in 1978, which featured artist, designer and singer Linder Sterling. It played jazz-, avant-garde- and punk- oriented material. The band influenced singer Morrissey, later of The Smiths and a solo artist, who remains one of the group's most vocal fans.\n\nThe band was founded by Linder Sterling, who in the arts and music scene was credited as Linder, having designed the cover of Buzzcocks' single \"Orgasm Addict\" and Magazine's debut album \"Real Life\"; and Arthur Kadmon, formerly of Manicured Noise. Shortly after the formation, ex-Nosebleeds drummer Philip \"Toby\" Tomanov and bassist Willie Trotter joined to complete the band. It debuted live at the Factory Club, supporting The Pop Group, in October 1978, recording a studio demo the same month. The following month, Ludus played shows at well-known 'punk' venues like Eric's Club in Liverpool and, travelling with Magazine, The Venue in London. \n\nSince its live debut at The Factory, Ludus was favourably reviewed in the press. In January 1979, Paul Morley, writing for \"NME\", remarked: \n\nIn February 1979, Ludus returned to the studio to record another demo, produced by Howard Devoto, Linder's boyfriend at the time. Shortly after a brief UK tour supporting Buzzcocks in March 1979, Kadmon and Trotter quit the band. Kadmon later joined The Distractions and Trotter moved onto working in the television industry. Ian Devine replaced them, after which the group began recording for New Hormones and pursued more abstract directions, including jazz, improvisation, and (after moving on to Les Disques du Crepuscule) even French pop. A provocative live performance at The Haçienda club in Manchester on 5 November 1982 saw Linder take the stage dressed in a dress fashioned from raw meat. After a spell in exile in Brussels, the group disbanded in 1983. \n\nIn October 1985 Morrissey wrote sleevenotes for an (unissued) Crepuscule compilation, and offered this closing eulogy: \"Ludus lay on us the decorative impulses of their music, and nowhere more significantly than on the volume which now lies before you. People who know real genius will love this record... Her singing leaves me out of breath... Linder went to Brussels and I remained stuck in Manchester, battling with the tides of fortune. Our shrill spirits still slide through the ugly streets of Manchester, always wet through, always caught out, always spectating, our hearts damaged by too many air-raids.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125476", "title": "Katafalk", "text": "Katafalk\n\nKatafalk is a Dutch death/thrash metal band, from Groningen.\n\nKatafalk was founded in 1995 by guitarist Chris. After two demos (\"Through The Storm\" (1997) and 'Promo 2001', lots of gigs and line-up changes, the band managed to become pretty well known in and outside The Netherlands. Having done a series of exclusive dates with God Dethroned, the band was offered a deal by Cold Blood Industries. Katafalk's debut album \"Storm Of The Horde\" came out early 2003 via CBI/Zomba/Suburban. In 2003 Katafalk performed on the Wâldrock festival.\n\n\nPier Abe - guitar\nHenk Jan - bass guitar\nRodney - vocals\nDick Barelds - guitar\nMichiel - drums\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125480", "title": "T-comma", "text": "T-comma\n\nT-comma (majuscule: Ț, minuscule: ț) is a letter which is part of the Romanian alphabet, used to represent the Romanian language sound , the voiceless alveolar affricate (like \"ts\" in \"bolts\"). It is written as the letter T with a small comma below and it has both the lower-case (U+021B) and the upper-case variants (U+021A).\n\nThe letter was proposed in the \"Buda Lexicon\", a book published in 1825, which included two texts by Petru Maior, and , introducing ș for and ț for .\n\nThis letter was not part of the early Unicode versions, which is why Ţ (T-cedilla, available from version 1.1.0, June 1993) is often used in digital texts in Romanian. T-comma was introduced only in Unicode 3.0.0 (September 1999) at the request of the Romanian national standardization body, but many computers today still do not have fonts compatible with it; computers with Microsoft operating systems older than Windows XP do not have compatible fonts. Windows XP's default fonts do not support this letter out of the box, but it is possible to install the European Union Expansion Font Update, which adds support for this letter. That is why many Romanian texts still use T-cedilla (or even T), despite the recommendation to migrate from cedilla to comma. Full support of this letter has been available on Macintosh computer since Mac OS X and on PC since Windows Vista.\n\nThe letter is placed in Unicode in the Latin Extended-B range, under \"Additions for Romanian\", as the \"Latin capital letter T with comma below\" (U+021A) and \"Latin small letter t with comma below\" (U+021B). In HTML these can be encoded by codice_1 and codice_2, respectively.\nIn Windows XP, most of the fonts including the Arial Unicode MS render T-cedilla as T-comma because T-cedilla was not believed to be used in any language. (It is in fact used, but in very few languages. T with Cedilla exists as part of the General Alphabet of Cameroon Languages, in some Gagauz orthographies, in the Kabyle dialect of the Berber language, and possibly elsewhere.) Technically, this is incorrect as a mismatching glyph is associated with a certain character code. Therefore, text written using S-cedilla and T-cedilla can often be seen as if it had been written using S-comma and T-comma. However, in order to correctly encode and render both S-comma and T-comma, one has to install the European Union Expansion Font Update. There is no official way to add keyboard support for these characters. In order to type them, one has to either install 3rd party keyboards, or use the Character Map.\n\nThe Windows version of the Firefox web browser is able to generate S-comma and T-comma, even if the characters are missing from the system's fonts. Internet Explorer does not have this capability.\n\nAll Linux distributions are able to correctly render S-comma and T-comma, since at least 2005. If these characters are missing from a certain font, they will be substituted with the glyph from another font. Although the X.Org Server supports the correct keyboard (ro comma) since at least 2005, selecting this keyboard from the user interface (e.g. GNOME Keyboard Properties) has only recently been made possible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125485", "title": "Industrial Ethernet", "text": "Industrial Ethernet\n\nIndustrial Ethernet (IE) is the use of Ethernet in an industrial environment with protocols that provide determinism and real-time control. Protocols for industrial Ethernet include EtherCAT, EtherNet/IP, PROFINET, POWERLINK, SERCOS III, CC-Link IE, and Modbus TCP. Many industrial Ethernet protocols use a modified Media Access Control (MAC) layer to provide low latency and determinism. Some microcontrollers such as Sitara provide industrial Ethernet support.\n\nIndustrial Ethernet can also refer to the use of standard Ethernet protocols with rugged connectors and extended temperature switches in an industrial environment, for automation or process control. Components used in plant process areas must be designed to work in harsh environments of temperature extremes, humidity, and vibration that exceed the ranges for information technology equipment intended for installation in controlled environments. The use of fiber-optic Ethernet variants reduces the problems of electrical noise and provides electrical isolation. \n\nSome industrial networks emphasized deterministic delivery of transmitted data, whereas Ethernet used collision detection which made transport time for individual data packets difficult to estimate with increasing network traffic. Typically, industrial uses of Ethernet employ full-duplex standards and other methods so that collisions do not unacceptably influence transmission times.\n\nIndustrial use requires consideration of the environment in which the equipment must operate. Factory equipment must tolerate a wider range of temperature, vibration, physical contamination and electrical noise than equipment installed in dedicated information-technology wiring closets. Since critical process control may rely on an Ethernet link, economic cost of interruptions may be high and high availability is therefore an essential criterion. Industrial Ethernet networks must interoperate with both current and legacy systems, and must provide predictable performance and maintainability. In addition to physical compatibility and low-level transport protocols, a practical industrial Ethernet system must also provide interoperability of higher levels of the OSI model. An industrial network must provide security both from intrusions from outside the plant, and from inadvertent or unauthorized use within the plant.\n\nWhen an industrial network must connect to an office network or external networks, a firewall system can be inserted to control exchange of data between the networks. This network separation preserves the performance and reliability of the industrial network.\n\nIndustrial environments are often much harsher, often subject to oil sprays, water sprays, and physical vibrations, so often industrial Ethernet requires a more rugged and watertight connector on one or both ends of the Cat-5 or Cat-6 cable, such as M12 connectors or M8 connectors, rather than the 8P8C connectors extremely commonly used in homes and businesses.\n\nProgrammable logic controllers (PLCs) communicate using one of several possible open or proprietary protocols, such as EtherNet/IP, Modbus, Sinec H1, Profibus, CANopen, DeviceNet or FOUNDATION Fieldbus. The idea to use standard Ethernet makes these systems more interoperable.\n\nSome of the advantages over other types of industrial network include:\n\nDifficulties of using industrial Ethernet include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125486", "title": "The Eagle (1925 film)", "text": "The Eagle (1925 film)\n\nThe Eagle is a 1925 American silent film directed by Clarence Brown and starring Rudolph Valentino, Vilma Bánky, and Louise Dresser. Based on the posthumously published 1841 novel \"Dubrovsky\" by Alexander Pushkin, the film is about a lieutenant in the Russian army who catches the eye of Czarina Catherine II. After he rejects her advances and flees, she puts out a warrant for his arrest, dead or alive. When he learns that his father has been persecuted and killed, he dons a black mask and becomes an outlaw. Prints currently exist in the film holdings of EmGee Film Library and in private film collections. Black Eagle does not exist in the novel and was inspired by the performance of Douglas Fairbanks as Zorro in \"The Mark of Zorro\".\n\nVladimir Dubrovsky (Valentino), a Lieutenant serving in the Imperial Guard of the Russian army, comes to the notice of the Czarina (Louise Dresser) when he rescues Mascha (Vilma Bánky), a beautiful young lady, and her aunt trapped in a runaway stagecoach. He is delighted when the Czarina offers to make him a general, but horrified when she tries to seduce him. He flees and the Czarina puts a price on his head.\n\nSoon afterwards, he receives a letter from his father informing him that the evil nobleman Kyrilla Troekouroff (James A. Marcus) has taken over his lands and is terrorizing the countryside. Hurrying home, Vladimir learns that his father has died. Vowing to avenge his father and help the victimized peasantry, he adopts a black mask and becomes the Black Eagle, a Robin Hood figure. Discovering that Kyrilla is Mascha's father, he takes the place of a tutor who has been sent for from France, but not previously seen by anyone in the household. Vladimir is thus able to become part of Kyrilla's household.\n\nAs Vladimir's love for Mascha grows, he becomes more and more reluctant to continue seeking revenge against her father, and the two eventually flee the Troekouroff estate. Vladimir is captured by the Czarina's men, but the Czarina, once determined to have him executed, has a last-minute change of heart, and she allows Vladimir, given a new French name, and Mascha to leave Russia for Paris.\n\n\nValentino's previous few films had not been particularly well received, but \"The Eagle\" proved a strong comeback for him, getting good reviews from the critics, doing well at the box office, and proving popular with both male and female fans - although it was not as successful as his next movie, \"Son of the Sheik\".\n\n\"The Eagle\" is also notable in cinematic history for its famous extended tracking shot of the food-laden table in the banquet scene.\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125509", "title": "Bryan Suits", "text": "Bryan Suits\n\nBryan Suits (born 1966) is an American war veteran of three military conflicts in Kuwait, Bosnia, and Iraq, and has been a talk radio host for more than 10 years. He has hosted talk-shows for radio stations in Seattle, Washington: KIRO (AM) and KVI, and in Los Angeles: KFI AM 640. Suits was born in Honolulu, Hawaii and grew up in Washington. He was heard weekday afternoons on KOGO-AM/FM in San Diego in 201112 and Saturday evenings on KFI from 2009 to November 2013. Suits did a brief Monday - Friday stint on KABC, Los Angeles in the 9am12noon slot beginning in 2014. However, he ultimately was summoned back to KFI. In addition to his current Saturday evening program \"Dark Secret Place\" at 8pm to 11pm, he serves as the official military and tactical sounding board for other KFI shows whenever related news breaks. He also has a Sunday evening show \"Super-Hyper-Local Sunday\" at 8pm to 10 pm.\n\nAfter graduating from Washington State University, Suits became a broker-trainee at Drexel Burnham Lambert.\n\nSuits has one child, with his ex-wife Rachel Suits, named Reagan Ladybug Suits. \n\nEnlisting in the United States Army Reserve in 1989, he served in Operation Desert Storm as a medic in HHT/2nd Squadron 2nd Armored Cavalry. In 1992, Suits was called up as a California Army National Guardsman in 4bn 160th Infantry in response to civil unrest following the \"Rodney King\" verdicts. In 1998 he deployed as a member of the Oregon Army National Guard to Bosnia as part of SFOR, the NATO mission to Bosnia. Suits was involved in the ICTY (International Criminal Tribunal for Yugoslavia) investigation of the Croatian militia called \"The Jokers.\" This work is still classified. In 2002, he attended Officer Candidate School and received his commission. As a member of C Company, 1st Battalion, 161st Infantry Regiment, Washington Army National Guard he deployed as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom. His infantry company's Area of Operational Responsibility included the Tuwaitha nuclear complex (bombed by Israel in May 1981). Due to delays in replacements, the battalion's deployment was extended to 19 months. Suits was awarded the Bronze Star Medal and was wounded in action several times and awarded the Purple Heart. While serving in Iraq he met individuals who stated they were involved in the transportation of Iraqi WMDs to Syria.\n\nWhile in Iraq he occasionally called into the Kirby Wilbur Show and reported on his experiences. He was also a contributor to the Iraq election log on the BBC news website. Lieutenant Suits collected rubber boots from his radio show listeners and distributed them to Iraqi children in what became known as \"Boots for Suits\". Upon his arrival back from his tour of duty in Iraq, he claimed that his ballot for the November 2004 general election, which he said was mailed to his wife from Iraq, was never counted. His claim became part of the public debate surrounding the contested 2004 Washington gubernatorial election. During the peak of the Tea Party movement, Suits spoke to Tea Party rallies as both a radio host and a soldier with experience in the War on Terror.\n\nThe \"Bryan Suits Show\" first ran Monday to Friday from 9pm to 1am PT on KIRO (AM) from 1999 to 2002. Suits then moved to the prime drive time hours of 5am to 9am PT on KVI, following Sean Hannity. The topics on the show ranged from local news to kicker stories to the War on Terror. Suits usually employed his sense of humor on all topics. He referred to the last hour of his show as \"The Iraq Block\" and devoted it mostly to discussion on the war in Iraq. It is in this hour that his experience in Iraq helped put some news items in perspective. Suits was deployed to Iraq in 2003 and returned to KVI in 2005 to continue his show. Suite's reported on his KVI show that during his 2003 Iraq deployment, he received an injury to his groin area from a roadside IED and now suffers from BPS.\n\nOn March 6, 2003, an Iraqi caller named \"Mohammed\" confronted United for Peace and Justice spokesperson Andrea Buffa on Suits' show. The clip was posted on the KVI website and quickly circulated around the Internet. However, some individuals noted that the individual did not have an Iraqi Arab accent.\n\nSuits' show was canceled by KVI on November 9, 2007. Some listeners complained that November 9 was the Friday preceding the Veterans Day holiday (observed on November 11, each year in the U.S.).\n\nSuits' show was replaced by the KVI show \"The Commentators\" with John Carlson and Ken Schram, formerly aired from 9am to 12noon. KVI aired the Laura Ingram show from 3pm to 5pm. KVI put Peter Weissbach in for an hour of Bryan's old time slot (56pm), the host whom Suits had been brought in to replace.\n\nSuits periodically filled in as a guest host from 7 to 10pm, following the contentious removal of John Ziegler in December 2007 on KFI, AM 640 of Los Angeles.\n\nSuits announced December 31, 2007 that he had accepted a position from 7 to 10pm, following John and Ken beginning January 2008 on KFI AM 640 of Los Angeles. In April he was joined by long-time friend and fellow radio host Lisa Kennedy Montgomery, and they performed the show together under the banner of \"The Kennedy & Suits Show\". Kennedy's final broadcast on \"Kennedy & Suits\" was September 30, 2009, with Suits going it solo again as the \"Bryan Suits Show\". In addition, Suits hosted \"The Dark Secret Place\" from 2pm to 4pm on Sundays, in the time slot formerly held by Kennedy before she moved to weekdays.\n\nSuits announced, on his January 8, 2010 show, that his last day at his current 7pm KFI Los Angeles time slot would be on Friday, January 15, 2010. He planned to continue his Sunday show, \"Dark Secret Place\" on KFI. Citing family reasons, and not specific on his career move, he and his family were returning to the Seattle, Washington area. His replacement on KFI, Tim Conway Jr., would begin at the 7pm time slot on Monday, January 18, 2010.\n\nKVI AM 570 in Seattle, announced the return of \"The Bryan Suits Show\" weekday mornings, from 5am to 9am, starting Monday morning, January 25, 2010. Some 10 months later, KVI AM 570 in Seattle cancelled its conservative-talk lineup and switched to an Oldies format, on November 8, 2010.\n\nWhile \"The Bryan Suits Show\" had been canceled, once again, by KVI in the days preceding Veterans Day, the Bryan Suits Show Facebook page stated that he had a safety net in place when hired back by Fisher Radio. In addition, Suits continued to host \"The Dark Secret Place\", on Sundays from 2 to 4pm, on AM 640 KFI Los Angeles. Beginning early March 2012, the show was moved to Saturday evenings, following the end of the Saturday installment of the Phil Hendrie show. The show has since also been picked up by XM Radio's America's Talk, airing Sundays at 5pm pacific time.\n\nIn November 2011, Suits became the mid-day host on KOGO in San Diego while continuing to host his weekend \"The Dark Secret Place\" program on KFI. Suits left KOGO in 2012.\n\nStarting on Monday, December 16, 2013, Suits took over for Geraldo Rivera on KABC Talk Radio AM 790 from 9-to-noon (Pacific time). He briefly revived his renowned \"Dark Secret Place\" program, in which he confines his topics of discussion to military-related matters and interviews with current or former members of the military. He abruptly ceased broadcasting the show, leaving listeners to find a note on his Facebook page stating that he would only continue doing the show in podcast form. His explanation declared in the post that the show had become \"a pain in the ass\" because he would have to give up personal time on the weekends to do it live, or have unspecified problems (possibly continuity errors related to developing stories) if he tried to pre-record it.\n\nBryan Suits' last 9-to-noon show on KABC was on 16 Jan 2015, resulting in KABC losing nearly all of the 9 to noon audience.\n\nBrian Suits' Dark Secret Place is returning to KFI AM-640 (Los Angeles) on Saturday April 4, 2015 and will be heard from 10pm to midnight (local time) per spots currently running on KFI and as noted in their weekend program line-up.\n\nAs of April 2017, Bryan Suits has started a new show, Super Hyper Local Sunday, which airs Sunday nights on KFI. It focuses on local news from the Los Angeles County area, though often ties in to other national and military related news stories.\n\nSuits was involved in a conflict between Geraldo Rivera and radio talk show host Tom Leykis in 2013 when Rivera apparently called both of them a \"right wing jerk off.\" Rivera later clarified that he was only referring to Leykis.\n"}
{"id": "2125547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125547", "title": "New York State Route 97", "text": "New York State Route 97\n\nNew York State Route 97 (NY 97) is a north–south scenic route in southern New York in the United States. It runs from U.S. Route 6 (US 6) and US 209 in Port Jervis to NY 17 (Future Interstate 86) in Hancock. Its most famous feature is the Hawk's Nest, a tightly winding section of the road along the Delaware River, located a few miles north of Port Jervis. NY 97 intersects NY 52 in Narrowsburg and indirectly connects to three Pennsylvania state highways due to its proximity to the state line.\n\nThe New York State Legislature created Route 3-a, an unsigned legislative route extending from Port Jervis to Hancock along the Delaware River, in 1911. Initially, it was a route in name only as the portion north of Port Jervis had yet to be built. Several parts of the route were constructed during the 1920s, and by the time the NY 97 designation was created as part of the 1930 renumbering of state highways in New York, only two sections were still unconstructed. The entirety of the highway officially opened on August 30, 1939, capping a construction project that cost $4 million (equivalent to $ in 2020) to complete.\n\nNY 97 began in the city of Port Jervis and ended in Callicoon when it was assigned in 1930. At that time, the remainder of modern NY 97 was part of NY 17B. During May 1939, the state proposed a new designation of New York State Route 17L (NY 17L) for the section between Hancock and Bradley's Corners (south of Middletown). After opposition by a local committee, NY 97 was extended north to Hancock in June 1939, overlapping NY 17B. The latter route was truncated to Callicoon in the 1960s. It is also shared with New York State Bicycle Route 17, except between NY 17 and NY 268.\n\nNY 97 begins at an intersection with US 6 and US 209 (Pike Street / East Main Street) in the city of Port Jervis. NY 97 is immediately concurrent with NY 42 as the route proceeds west on West Main Street, a two-lane commercial street. NY 42 and NY 97 soon split from West Main Street for Park Avenue in the Germantown section of Port Jervis, north of the Port Jervis Metro-North Railroad station. NY 42 and NY 97 soon leave Port Jervis for the town of Deerpark, paralleling the Norfolk Southern Southern Tier Line (ex-Erie Railroad Delaware Division) past Port Jervis Yard and soon into the hamlet of Sparrowbush.\n\nIn Sparrowbush, NY 42 and NY 97 proceed west, passing north of the Eddy Farm Resort Golf Course before bending northwest through the hamlet. After the intersection with Darraugh Lane, NY 42 forks off on a new right-of-way to the northeast, while NY 97 continues northwest on the current alignment. The route quickly bends north, intersecting with Hook Road, which connects to the golf course and nearby fishing area. NY 97 continues north, paralleling NY 42 and the Delaware River into the Hawk's Nest section of Deerpark. In Hawk's Nest, NY 97 runs alongside the side of several cliffs overlooking the Delaware. As the river bends to the west, NY 97 bends westward out of Hawk's Nest, bending southwest into Sullivan County.\n\nUpon entering Sullivan County, NY 97 enters the hamlet of Mongaup, where it crosses over the Mongaup River. Now in the town of Lumberland, NY 97 soon bends to the west, running alongside the Delaware River, passing through the hamlet of Knight's Eddy before bending northwest. After another large bend to the southwest once again, NY 97 enters the hamlet of Pond Eddy. In Pond Eddy, NY 97 intersects with County Route 41 (CR 41), which proceeds north as High Road while crosses the nearby Pond Eddy Bridge into Shohola Township, Pennsylvania and the unsigned quadrant State Route 1011 on the opposite shore. NY 97 remains a two-lane residential road through Pond Eddy before leaving the hamlet further to the southwest.\n\nBending northwest once again, NY 97 continues alongside the river, entering a small commercial stretch through the town of Lumberland, before turning southwest once again. Just before an intersection with Tuthill Road, NY 97 bends northwest and away from the river before bending northeastward to the riverside once again. During another curve to the northwest, NY 97 enters the hamlet of Handsome Eddy, which consists of a few farms. After crossing into the town of Highland, it enters the hamlet of Barryville. In Barryville, NY 97 turns northwest and becomes a commercial street, intersecting with NY 55 and CR 11 in the center. Present as this junction is the Barryville–Shohola Bridge, which crosses the Delaware River and meets PA 434. \n\nAfter NY 55, NY 97 continues west through Barryville, intersecting with the southern terminus of CR 21 (Yulan–Barryville Road), CR 21A and the western terminus of CR 11A (River Road). After leaving Barryville, NY 97 parallels CR 21 for a short distance, continuing west through the town of Highland alongside the Delaware River. The route bends southwestward once again, crossing past several homes as it winds through Highland. The route makes a short western stretch at an intersection with Old Minisink Ford Road before turning eastward into the hamlet of Minisink Ford. In Minisink Ford, NY 97 intersects with CR 168 (Minisink Battleground Road), which connects to Minisink Battleground County Park. NY 97 and CR 168 are concurrent for an extremely short distance, before CR 168 crosses the Delaware River on Roebling's Delaware Aqueduct into the borough of Lackawaxen, Pennsylvania.\n\nAfter Minisink Ford, NY 97 bends northward along the river as a two-lane dense woods road through the town of Highland. After an intersection with Poblete Drive, NY 97 continues northward while the Delaware River bends west, and NY 97 enters the town of Tusten. Through Tusten, NY 97 makes several bends to the north, before maintaining a long northwest stretch after Grassy Swamp Road. Passing west of Rock Lake, NY 97 enters the hamlet of Tusten, where it bends northward again and soon intersecting with the western terminus of CR 23 (Lumberland–Mount Hope Road). A short distance later, CR 25 (Eckes Road) begins at an intersection with NY 97. After another bend to the southwest, NY 97 intersects with NY 52 and CR 111.\n\nNY 52 and NY 97 become concurrent in the town of Tusten, soon entering the hamlet of Narrowsburg. Passing south of Feagles Lake, the two routes soon fork off, with NY 52 proceeding west on CR 24 (Bridge Street) to the Narrowsburg–Darbytown Bridge. NY 97 continues northwest, running along the eastern edge of Narrowsburg, passing Glenn Cove Cemetery, where it intersects with Kirk Road. At this junction, NY 97 returns the riverside, bending northeast and southeast alongside. Now paralleling the Southern Tier Line once again, the route continues through the town of Tusten, running north as a two-lane residential street. NY 97 soon bends northwest to the railroad then north again, entering the town of Cochecton. \n\nIn Cochecton, NY 97 intersects with Skinners Falls Road, which connects to the hamlet of Skinners Falls and the Skinners Falls – Milanville Bridge. NY 97 meanwhile continues north away from the river, before rejoining a short distance north. After a short stretch to the northeast, CR 116 intersects. Paralleling the railroad tracks, NY 97 soon enters the hamlet of Cochecton, bending northeast out of the hamlet. At the end of the bend, CR 114 (Lake Huntington Road) intersects with NY 97, connecting the route to the Damascus–Cochecton Bridge and PA 371. NY 97 proceeds east for a short distance, where CR 114 forks towards Lake Huntington. After CR 114, NY 97 continues north alongside the railroad tracks before splitting for a few miles. The railroad tracks soon rejoin in the town of Delaware.\n\nIn Delaware, NY 97 and the railroad tracks proceed northward, entering the hamlet of Callicoon. In Callicoon, NY 97 crosses over a tributary of the Delaware River and intersects with the western terminus of NY 17B. After a stretch to the northwest, NY 97 runs along the northern edge of Callicoon and intersects with CR 133 (Fremont Street) at the outer edge of the hamlet. After CR 133, NY 97 bends north through Delaware, far from the riverside and railroad line. The three soon meet once again as NY 97 enters the town of Fremont. All three entities bend west and enter the hamlet of Hankins. In Hankins, CR 132 (Hankins Road) and CR 94 (Hankins Road) both terminate at NY 97, which runs as a two-lane commercial street.\n\nAfter Long Eddy, NY 97 bends northeast through the town of Fremont, intersecting with Kellams Bridge Road. Kellams Bridge Road connects NY 97 to the Little Equinunk Bridge (also known as Kellam's Bridge). NY 97 continues northward, intersecting with the terminus of CR 134 (Basket Brook Road). After another dart to the west, NY 97 enters the hamlet of Long Eddy. In Long Eddy, NY 97 is the main road, passing multiple residences on both sides of the road. At an intersection with Kinney Road, NY 97 turns northward and crosses the county line into Delaware County. Upon crossing the county line, NY 97 is now in the town of Hancock. Through Hancock, NY 97 becomes a two-lane woods road, winding north and soon northeast into the hamlet of Pea Brook.\n\nPea Brook consists of a few homes and upon leaving, NY 97 returns to the two-lane woods road it was beforehand. Just before a junction with Klondike Road and Swope Road, NY 97 bends westward once again, entering the hamlet of French Woods. In French Woods, NY 97 passes south of French Woods Golf and Country Club and enters the hamlet of Peas Eddy. In Peas Eddy, NY 97 bends southwest and south alongside Somerset Lake. After Somerset Lake, the route bends northwest and returns to the railroad tracks and the Delaware River in the hamlet of Stockport. At the junction with Stockport Road, NY 97 gains the moniker and becomes a two-lane residential street. A short distance later, NY 97 enters the village of Hancock. In Hancock, NY 97 becomes a two-lane commercial street, paralleling the railroad tracks into the downtown section after crossing the East Branch of the Delaware River.\n\nIn downtown Hancock, NY 97 intersects with the southern terminus of NY 268 (East Front Street). NY 97 takes a two block turn to the west before intersecting with Reed Street, where it heads one block north. NY 97 then turns west onto West Main Street, proceeding as a two-lane residential street. NY 97 intersects with Pennsylvania Avenue, which connects NY 97 to the Delaware River and a bridge crossing to PA 191. After leaving the village, NY 97 becomes a two-lane commercial street, intersecting with Sands Creek Road. There, NY 97 turns northward and enters exit 87 of New York State Route 17 (Future I-86) (the Quickway). The northern ramps of the interchange serve as the northern terminus of NY 97 while Sands Creek Road continues north as CR 67 to NY 10 at the Cannonsville Reservoir.\n\nThe Delaware River corridor had been linked by a road along the cliffs overlooking the river since at least 1851. However, when the plans for a new highway through the corridor were initially drawn up, it was to bypass what became the Hawk's Nest in favor of a shoreline route. However, the Erie Railroad refused to sell the necessary right-of-way, forcing the state to construct the improved road along the cliffside instead.\n\nIn 1911, the New York State Legislature created Route 3-a, an unsigned legislative route extending from the Pennsylvania state line at Port Jervis to Route 4 (later NY 17) in Hancock along the Delaware River. Very little of this highway actually existed in reality; by 1920, only of the long route had been built. In the 1930 renumbering of state highways in New York, the segment of former Route 3-a from Port Jervis to Callicoon was designated as NY 97, even though two sections of the route—between NY 42 at Sparrow Bush and Mongaup and from Pond Eddy to near the hamlet of Tusten—were still incomplete. The remainder of old Route 3-a north of Callicoon, which was fully constructed by 1930, became part of NY 17B. In 1932, then-Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt signed legislation designating NY 97 as the \"Upper Delaware Scenic Byway\".\n\nIn May 1939, rest of future-NY 97 was proposed by the New York State Highway Department to become NY 17L from Hancock to Bradley's Corners. The Orange County Chamber of Commerce wanted one designation for the entire stretch of highway from Hancock to Port Jervis, which shared NY 97. NY 17B, NY 84 and US 6. NY 17L was chosen to provide an alternate to NY 17 for motorists who wanted to avoid the busy highway. The Route Ninety-Seven Council had been created several months prior to advocate for designating the entire road as NY 97. They opposed the decision for NY 17L, preferring to keep NY 97 to help travelers. Walter Schwartz, the chairman of the highway committee for Sullivan County's Board of Supervisors, announced on May 12 that he would discuss with the state about the NY 17L/NY 97 ordeal. On June 28, the state announced that they were dropping the NY 17L designation and the entire route would be designated as NY 97.\n\nOn August 30, 1939, the entirety of NY 97 was officially opened to traffic. Several events were held to mark the road's opening, including a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Port Jervis featuring the mayors of Port Jervis and Hancock and a motorcade procession that traveled the length of the highway. In all, it cost $4 million (equivalent to $ in 2020) to build NY 97. The portion through the Hawk's Nest cost $2 million (equivalent to $ in 2020) to construct. Following the road's completion, NY 97 was extended north to Hancock, overlapping NY 17B. The overlap was eliminated in the mid-1960s when NY 17B was truncated to Callicoon.\n\nNear Cochecton, a historical marker points out that NY 97 passes the rock claimed by New Jersey colonists as the western end of the colony's northern border during the New York–New Jersey Line War in the 18th century. About a quarter of the route follows the old Delaware and Hudson Canal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125550", "title": "Ray (DC Comics)", "text": "Ray (DC Comics)\n\nThe Ray is the name of four fictional superheroes in the DC Comics Universe.\n\nThe first Ray was Langford \"Happy\" Terrill, a Quality Comics character. When DC Comics later purchased Quality Comics, Happy Terrill was retconned as a member of the Freedom Fighters on Earth-X. The character, created by artist Lou Fine, first appeared in \"Smash Comics\" #14 (Sept 1940) and continued in the book until issue #40 (Feb 1943).\n\nFollowing DC altering much of its continuity and history in the storyline \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\", Happy Terrill was now an inhabitant of the mainstream DC Comics universe and his son Ray Terrill became the second Ray. Later, the character Stan Silver briefly operated as the third hero called the Ray. \n\nIn 2011's New 52 relaunch of DC Comics, where fictional history was again restructured, a new character called Lucien Gates was introduced as the Ray. Although historically he is the fourth superhero character to use this name, in \"The Ray\" #1 (2012), set in a rebooted continuity, he refers to the origin of Happy Terrill as a story he had heard as a child.\n\nPrior to the \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" reboot, Happy Terrill is originally described as having been exposed to lightning and sunlight at the same time while ballooning, and gains energy-based super-powers. He is able to emit energy from his body, and use it to fly through the air.\n\nAccording to \"Jess Nevins' Encyclopedia of Golden Age Superheroes\", \"The Ray fights the Hindu mystic Bela Jat, Cadava the Crumbler, the Mongol warrior Khan, and the pied piper of crime, Stradivarius.\"\n\nHis post-Crisis origin is more involved. Before World War II, the government established a secret group known as RONOL (Research on the Nature of Light). One RONOL member, Dr. Dayzl, theorized that the light that originated millennia ago where Earth now orbits would eventually circumnavigate the universe and return as a dangerous, conscious entity.\n\nThe only way to stop the \"Light Entity\", Dayzl believed, was to talk to it. Tricking a reporter named Happy Terrill into joining them, Dayzl and his assistants staged an upper atmosphere ballooning \"accident\", making certain Terrill was exposed to a genetic \"light bomb\". Dayzl calculated that Terrill's offspring would be a unification of human and light energy, a potential liaison to the Light Entity. Unaware of the truth, Terrill used his resulting powers to become the super-heroic Ray. Simultaneously, RONOL lost government backing due to Dayzl's unorthodox beliefs. Dayzl's fate remains unknown.\n\nIn 1950, after learning the truth, Terrill vowed to quit his Ray identity. Happy and his first wife, had a child named Joshua. For a time Joshua accompanied Ray on missions as his sidekick \"Spitfire\". However, Joshua was prone to violent outbursts; he was placed in suspended animation in the 1950s only to wake up again in the future, still only 10 years old. After a brief association with his old team the Freedom Fighters in the 1970s, he had married and settled down. Everything seemed normal until Happy saw his newborn son glowing with crackling energy in the hospital nursery. Happy was convinced Dayzl's theories were correct. He now knew his son would one day have the power to confront the Light Entity. Not wanting to put his wife through torment, Happy told her that the baby had died and then set up his son with a foster father (Happy's brother Thomas).\n\nIn the 2008 \"Freedom Fighters\" series, Terrill is asked by Uncle Sam to ask Neon the Unknown for help. When Neon, completely detached from humanity, refuses, Terrill drinks from the waters of his oasis, becoming a new Neon the Unknown, known simply as \"Neon\".\n\nRay Terrill was told he was hypersensitive to light and exposure to sunlight would kill him. Privately tutored in his window-darkened home, Ray's most earnest wish was for normalcy. The media called him Night Boy. His only friend during his formative years was his neighbor, Jennifer Jurden. When he was 18, at his supposed father's deathbed, Ray learned his life was a lie. He was not allergic to light, nor did he have to live in darkness. Most disturbing of all, he discovered his true father was the 1940s war-time super-hero, the Golden Age Ray.\n\nThe reformed Freedom Fighters have a member called the Ray who has similar powers to the Terrills. The new Ray is Stan Silver, and he was described by Justin Gray as being \"capable of turning his body into a living laser light\" and \"the playboy of the group\". Stan likes to show off in front of the media.\n\nWorking as a foreign correspondent for the Washington Sun, Silver was exposed to upper atmosphere radiation while covering a story, thus gaining power over various forms of light. Recruited by S.H.A.D.E., Silver begins using his powers in the service of his government. He is, however, something of a womanizing egomaniac in his civilian persona. Silver later defects from S.H.A.D.E. to join Uncle Sam's new group of Freedom Fighters.\n\nIn \"Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters\" #6, Silver reveals that he is a double agent still loyal to S.H.A.D.E. He turns on his teammates and kills the Invisible Hood. Immediately after, the colors of his \"costume\" were inverted, becoming blue instead of yellow.\n\nIn \"Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters\" #7, he battles his former teammates and is defeated by Ray Terrill, and is sent back to Father Time. He is later seen outside the White House with S.H.A.D.E.'s other super-soldiers, who join Father Time in the timestream after the battle ends.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, a character named Lucien Gates was introduced as the Ray in a mini-series titled \"The Ray\", written by Palmiotti and Gray with art duties by Jamal Igle. It did not feature any of the previous incarnations of The Ray but instead centered around a new character by the name of Lucien Gates. Remarks made by Lucien referencing Langford's origin and his use of the Ray title in his debut issue indicate that he is not the first hero to be called The Ray as far as the newly rebooted DC universe is concerned. The mini-series debuted in December 2011.\n\nLucien Gates is a Korean-American San Diego County lifeguard who, while on duty, was caught in the path of a particle beam. The beam, accidentally fired from a solar energy cannon commissioned by an unnamed government agency, mutated a number of living organisms before striking Gates. The resulting energy transforms him into an energy manipulator, able to fly at superhuman speed, fire various energy beams, and create illusions. Gates is also a Korean-American adoptee.\n\nDistinctively, Gates cannot direct his flight as is common for airborne superheroes, instead traveling in a straight line as a literal ray of light. To change direction, he must strike a reflective surface, though it does not appear he is bound by the normal mechanics of specular reflection and can \"reflect\" at any angle (perhaps more akin to a swimmer kicking off from the edge of a pool than true reflection). When necessary, he can reduce his speed and even hover.\n\nAll versions of the Ray can absorb, store, and process pure light and use the energy to fly and create dazzlingly strong and powerful bursts of light. In his Golden Age appearances, Happy Terrill was able to manipulate other forms of energy such as electricity and magnetism.\n\nThe Terrills were also capable of manipulating and controlling light externally to create illusions and even solid light constructs, as well as render themselves invisible.\n\nLater in Happy's career (while mentoring/antagonizing his son), he was shown to have a greater mastery of his abilities. For example, by using \"solid light vibrations\", essentially resonating the target's inner ear, he was able to approximate telepathic communication.\n\nRay Terrill is capable of converting his body completely into light energy. No physical harm can come to him in this form.\n\nStan Silver's full abilities and powers are largely undocumented. As noted above, he is apparently \"capable of turning his body into a living laser light\".\n\nLucien Gates can not become immaterial; rather the light forms a protective armor. In order to fly, Gates bounces off of reflective surfaces. His thought processes calculate hundreds of options, allowing him to redirect his path at light speed.\n\n\nIn \"American Comic Book Chronicles: 1940-1944\", comics historian Kurt Mitchell writes that the Golden Age strip \"showcased Fine's growing mastery of lighting effects, as well as the wild fight scenes and memorably ugly villains that had by now become trademarks of his style.\"\n\n\n\nThe Ray appears in Justice League Unlimited tie in comic #17.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125576", "title": "Calan (band)", "text": "Calan (band)\n\nCalan (meaning \"Calend\" (being the start of a month, or year) in Welsh) is a five-piece revivalist traditional Welsh band. The band formed in early 2006 when its members were only 13 to 22 years old. In 2008, they created great excitement at the Inter Celtic Festival where they would eventually be the first Welsh band to win the coveted international band competition.\n\nThe inspiration for the band's name dates back to their early days as street musicians when someone happened to photograph them in front of a sign for a construction company called \"Calan,\" which is term that means the beginning of something new or a fresh start. Calan is considered a \"M4 corridor band.\" Its members, who are from Cardiff, Swansea, and Cwmbran, met each other through the region's music scene. They played together on a monthly basis, and kept in touch even after they all went off to university, eventually coming back together to form the band.\n\nAfter their debut album Bling in 2008, Calan played at progressively more impressive venues, including the Cambridge Festival, Glasgow's Celtic Connections, Shrewsbury Folk Festival, the Whitby Folk Festival. They have toured in the US, Canada, Belgium, Italy, and France. They were invited to perform alongside Bryn Terfel and Sting at the Royal Albert Hall, London as part of Bryn Terfel's 50th birthday party.\n\nCalan performs traditional Welsh music, and band members see themselves as ambassadors for the traditional Welsh sound, helping to raise the international profile of traditional Welsh music. Calan's contemporary and lively approach has been credited with bringing a \"fresh and vibrant sound to traditional Welsh music.\" They merge \"sparkling melodies\" and Welsh step dancing into \"spirited and energetic performances.\" For instance, a Tale of Two Dragons is based on an old Welsh folktale about two dragons who slept at the bottom of a secret lake in the North Wales mountains during the fifth century. The dragons' nighttime fights were thought to be the cause of earthquakes. The song, which combines traditional Welsh melodies and instruments with modern guitar rhythms, breathes fire into the old folk tale.\n\nDuring their performances, Calan sings in both Welsh and English. Rimes says, \"We believe music travels, which is why we make the effort to sing bilingually, keeping the old Welsh songs alive and singing in English to be more accessible.\" \"From the beginning, we made it our mission statement that we wanted to preserve Welsh music for those who might not otherwise hear it: Welsh is a very poetic language and people appreciate that over being able to understand every word.\" Their fourth album, Solomon (Sain Records), is a collection of songs based on Celtic Wales folklore, sung in both English and the band's native Welsh.\n\nIn 2015 some US tour gigs were cancelled when two band members were refused entry into the country in Chicago. Other gigs were held when friends were able to replace the deported band members. When Patrick Rimes (fiddle) and Sam Humphreys (guitar) were sent back to London, their record label, Sain, generously offered to pay for their return tickets.\n\nHumphreys reported that neither had a criminal record and both had the correct working visas, but that wasn't printed on the passports due to a computer glitch at the London embassy. After spending the night in a jail cell, they were driven \"straight across the runway to the plane to be deported, so we took a picture of ourselves in the [police] van as it was too good an opportunity to miss.\" The picture of them in a police van looking groggy-eyed from their night in jail was posted with a story on Wales Online and inspired the song \"Deportation Selfie.\"\n\n\n\nNigel Gould of the Belfast Telegraph wrote,\n\n\"The dynamic quintet's debut album, Bling, has everything you could want from a record – stunning use of instrumentation, gorgeously crafted songs, sprightly foot-tappers, verve and raw excitement.\"\n\nGavin Martin of the Daily Mirror wrote,\n\n\"...there's nowt as dear as folk – especially when played with the grace, daring and sheer joy this multi- instrumental five-piece bring to a winning selection of reels, jigs and hornpipes. Shake a leg. In fact, shake several.\"\nCalan played their first performance at Sesiwn Fawr Dolgellau in 2008. Since then they have played major festivals in the UK including Cambridge, Shrewsbury and Fairport's Cropredy Convention. They have toured in Italy, Belgium and France.\n\nCalan has been described as bringing a fresh and vibrant sound to traditional Welsh music, and their performances include Welsh step dancing, reels, jigs and hornpipes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125590", "title": "List of Catholic schools in New York", "text": "List of Catholic schools in New York\n\nThis is a list of Catholic schools in New York State.\n\n\n\nElementary Schools and Academies\n\nHigh Schools\n\n\nElementary Schools and Academies\n\nHigh Schools\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125602", "title": "Edwin Davis (executioner)", "text": "Edwin Davis (executioner)\n\nEdwin F. Davis (May 28, 1846 – May 26, 1923), of Corning, Steuben County, New York was the first \"state electrician\" (executioner) for the State of New York. In 1890, Davis finalized many features of the first electric chair used. Davis performed 240 executions between 1890 and 1914, including the first person to be executed by electric chair, William Kemmler, and the first woman Martha M. Place, as well as the assassin of William McKinley, Leon Frank Czolgosz.\n\nDavis held a patent on certain features of the electric chair. He received U.S. Patent No. 587,649, for his \"Electrocution-Chair\", on August 3, 1897.\n\nHe died in May 1923, and is buried in Barnard Cemetery in Corning, New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125611", "title": "Area code 907", "text": "Area code 907\n\nArea code 907 covers the state of Alaska, except for the small southeastern community of Hyder, which uses area codes 236, 250 and 778 of neighboring Stewart, British Columbia.\n\nDespite having telephone service to the contiguous US via a terrestrial line from Juneau since 1937, Alaska was not included in the North American Numbering Plan (NANP) until after the Alaska submarine cable was opened for traffic in 1956. The Alaska numbering plan area (NPA) was assigned the area code 907, and entered service in 1957.\n\nThe Alaska numbering plan area is geographically the largest of any in the United States. It is the second-largest on the NANP and on the entire North American continent behind 867, which serves Canada's northern territories. Because the Aleutian Islands of Alaska cross longitude 180, the Anti-Meridian, 907 may be considered to be both the farthest west and the farthest east of all area codes in the NANP. Due to Alaska's low population, 907 is one of only 12 remaining area codes serving an entire state. It is not projected to be exhausted until after 2049.\n\nMany calls within Alaska are long-distance calls and must be dialed with the leading 1-907, except for cellphone services. Local calls and cellphone calls for long-distance service within Alaska, only require seven-digit dialing.\n\nAt the time of its creation, area code 907 was one of the two longest area codes to dial on a rotary phone, taking 26 pulses to dial out in an era before the first touch tone phones. This is the same number of pulses as Hawaii's area code 808, introduced the same year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125629", "title": "Robert Elliott", "text": "Robert Elliott\n\nRobert, Rob, Robbie, Bob or Bobby Elliott may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125633", "title": "The Roly Mo Show", "text": "The Roly Mo Show\n\nThe Roly Mo Show is a British children's television series featuring a cast of puppets; it is a spin-off from the \"Fimbles\" show and was created by Novel Entertainment. The series consists of 100 episodes, each of 15 minutes in length. It was broadcast on CBeebies. In addition, there are 20 storytimes and 10 Christmas storytimes. \n\nThe series was broadcast between 13 June 2004 and 8 April 2005. Roly Mo was a regular storyteller character in the better known \"Fimbles\" show, and \"The Roly Mo Show\" draws heavily on this. The show is noted for its particularly gentle and pleasant characters and plots.\n\nA show called \"Christmas Storytime\" aired on the CBeebies channel in 2007.\n\nIn the Irish republic, \"The Roly Mo Show\" was broadcast on Network 2 (later changed to RTÉ2 in 2004) as part of a lineup of programmes for younger children called \"The Den\" and started airing on 20 January 2003.\n\nIn Australia from 3 February 2003 to 30 September 2008, \"The Roly Mo Show\" was broadcast on ABC and its third digital channel ABC2.\n\nAs of 1 June 2007 \"The Roly Mo Show\" (粉宝乐园) is being broadcast in China on Shanghai Media Group's children's network \"HAHA TV\". All 200 episodes are being shown sequentially and dubbed in Mandarin Chinese. As the show in its original format is only 19 minutes long, the show has been lengthened by 5 minutes for the Chinese market.\n\nIn Vietnam, since 2008, \"The Roly Mo Show\" is a part of the show \"5 Minutes to Learn English Everyday\" (5 phút học tiếng Anh mỗi ngày), which is produced by HTV4 together with many famous English centers and international schools. However, in VBC, it is a separate show named \"Những chú heo con Fimbles\".\n\nFrom June 2008, the show has also been broadcast by Tata Sky DTH in India under partnership from the BBC on the country's variant of the CBeebies channel.\n\nIn Colombia from 2004 and 2007, it was broadcast by Señal Colombia.\n\nIn New Zealand, the show was played on TV2.\n\nIn South Africa, \"The Roly Mo Show\" began airing on SABC 1.\n\nIn Singapore, it was broadcast by Central and played it on their children's block \"Kids Central\". The series aired in Singapore from 2003 to 2006, 2019-present.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the series was screened on TVB Pearl.\n\nIn Malta, \"The Roly Mo Show\" was aired on TVM.\n\nIn Thailand, the English version of the series was broadcast on Thai cable television TrueVisions (originally known as UBC at the time) on their children's network UBC Spark.\n\nIn United States, \"The Roly Mo Show\" is aired on PBS.\n\nEach episode follows a general format.\n\n\n\nRoly Mo has been referred to many times in the TV series \"Horrid Henry\", with both shows being created by Novel Entertainment.\n\nOn 28 December 2007, Roly Mo appeared in a special puppet edition of \"The Weakest Link\". The show, which was presented by Anne Robinson, was aired at 6pm on BBC One. Prior to the fourth round, at Anne's and the audience's request, he led the other puppets in a rendition of his \"When you take a look inside a book\" song.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125637", "title": "Tracy Davidson", "text": "Tracy Davidson\n\nTracy Davidson (born June 10) is a news presenter for WCAU in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. She co-anchors NBC 10 News Today, weekdays from 4:30-7 a.m.\n\nShe has been with the station since 1996 when she was brought in to present the weekend morning news. In 1999, Davidson won a Mid-Atlantic Emmy Award in the \"Outstanding Service News\" category for her reporting work. She won another as a presenter/reporter in 2001, in the \"Outstanding Community Outreach Program\" category. She has won 6 Emmy Awards total - most recently in 2013.\n\nDavidson attended State University of New York at Geneseo and graduated from Temple University.\n"}
{"id": "2125641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125641", "title": "Iron Triangle (Vietnam)", "text": "Iron Triangle (Vietnam)\n\nThe Iron Triangle (Vietnamese:\"Tam Giác Sắt\") was a area in the Bình Dương Province of Vietnam, so named due to it being a stronghold of Viet Minh activity during the war. The region was under control of the Viet Minh throughout the French war in Vietnam and continued to be so throughout the phase of American involvement in the Vietnam War, despite concerted efforts on the part of US and South Vietnamese forces to destabilize the region as a power base for their enemy, the communist North Vietnamese–sponsored and–directed South Vietnamese insurgent movement, the Viet Cong (VC).\n\nThe location of the Iron Triangle was between the Saigon River on the west and the Tinh River on the east and bordering Route 13 about 25 miles (40 km) north of Saigon. The southern apex of the \"triangle\" was seven miles (11 km) from Phú Cường, the capital of Bình Dương Province. Its proximity to Saigon was both a reason for American and South Vietnamese efforts to eradicate it, as well as why it remained a crucial area for Communist forces to control.\n\nThe terrain within the Iron Triangle was flat, almost featureless, and covered by dense brush and undergrowth. The clearings, especially in the northern part, were thick with elephant grass, higher than\na man's head. The surface was scarred by countless bomb and shell craters so that vehicular movement off the narrow, rough dirt roads was nearly impossible, even tracked vehicles had difficulty. A vast\nnetwork of tunnels and trenches, most of them caved-in and abandoned, laced this ground that had been the scene of battles since the early days of the second Indochina war.\n\nDuring the French war in Indochina, from 1946 to 1954, the Viet Minh elaborated on a network of hidden fortifications and tunnels throughout the region to defend themselves against the superior military power of the French. These tunnel networks had begun as early as the 1880s to resist French occupation. The network afforded communist fighters the ability to \"disappear\" into the countryside. This became especially important during the Vichy Regime, when Vietnam was dually occupied by French and Japanese forces, so as to remain undetected by not one but two occupying enemies.\n\nThe tunnels were expanded further after the war with the French as a base for underground operations against the Ngo Dinh Diem government and later US-backed South Vietnamese governments. Due to the threat that the base area posed to the Saigon government, the United States stepped up its military offensive in the region in the fall of 1966 and 1967. They launched three operations during this time: Operation Attleboro, Operation Cedar Falls, and Operation Junction City. Operation Cedar Falls was an especially intensive attack involving nearly 16,000 American troops and 14,000 soldiers of the South Vietnamese Army. The operation took nineteen days, and 72 Americans and 720 Viet Cong were killed. Despite their massive attack with B-52 bombers and Rome plows and efforts to destroy the tunnel system with explosives, flooding, and \"tunnel rats\" (specially trained soldiers who would infiltrate the tunnels armed only with a flashlight and a handgun), the Americans failed to totally destroy the Viet Cong support system that had been built for over two decades.\n\nThe area remained an active organizing center for the Viet Cong right through to the end of the war, due to both its undeniable strategic importance, as well as support from local populations who had been negatively impacted by the American bombing campaign. In April 1975, General Văn Tiến Dũng, political bureau members Phạm Hùng and Lê Đức Thọ, and southern military commander Trần Văn Trà all joined together in the Iron Triangle region to orchestrate the final, decisive attack on Saigon.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125644", "title": "Er:YAG laser", "text": "Er:YAG laser\n\nAn Er:YAG laser (erbium-doped yttrium aluminium garnet laser, erbium YAG laser) is a solid-state laser whose active laser medium is erbium-doped yttrium aluminium garnet (Er:YAlO). Er:YAG lasers typically emit light with a wavelength of 2940 nm, which is infrared light.\n\nUnlike s, the output of an Er:YAG laser is strongly absorbed by water. This fact limits the use of this laser in surgery, and in many other laser applications where water is present. Because of this limitation, Er:YAG lasers are far less common than their relatives such as Nd:YAG and lasers.\n\nErbium-YAG lasers have been used for laser resurfacing of human skin. Example uses include treating acne scarring, deep rhytides, and melasma. In addition to being absorbed by water, the output of Er:YAG lasers is also absorbed by hydroxyapatite, which makes it a good laser for cutting bone as well as soft tissue. Bone surgery applications have been found in oral surgery, dentistry, implant dentistry, and otolaryngology. Er:YAG lasers are safer for the removal of warts than carbon dioxide lasers, because human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA is not found in the laser plume. Er:YAG lasers can be used in laser aided cataract surgery but owing to its water absorbable nature Nd:YAG is preferred more.\n\nErbium YAG dental lasers are effective for removing tooth decay atraumatically, often without the need for local anesthetic to numb the tooth. Eliminating the vibration of the dental drill removes the risk of causing microfractures in the tooth. When used initially at low power settings, the laser energy has a sedative effect on the nerve, resulting in the ability to subsequently increase the power without creating the sensation of pain in the tooth. Additional benefits are disinfection of the surface of the dentin and enamel prior to bonding the filling, and etching the surface to increase surface area for improved bonding adhesion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125650", "title": "Gordon the Garden Gnome", "text": "Gordon the Garden Gnome\n\nGordon the Garden Gnome is a British/Australian animated children's television series aimed at getting children interested in gardening. The series premiered on CBeebies and ABC Kids in 2005. Gordon is a cartoon garden gnome, whose voice is provided by Alan Titchmarsh.\n\nThe series also aired in the United States on Cartoon Network's Tickle-U television programming block.\n\nThe series was also produced in Australia by Southern Star Entertainment. It aired in Australia on ABC Kids\n\nGordon the Garden Gnome was a Collingwood O'Hare and production for CBeebies and ABC Kids (Australia) in association with Southern Star Entertainment.\n\nThe series has also been shown on KiKa in Germany.\n\nDVDs were released by Paramount Home Entertainment\n\nAnimated and created by Suzhou Hong Ying Animation in 2004 in China\n\nYou can find episodes on Puddle Jumper - Cartoons produced by Southern Star on YouTube (which also has some other shows all created by Southern Star)\n\n"}
{"id": "2125652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125652", "title": "Goldface", "text": "Goldface\n\nGoldface is a DC Comics fictional supervillain character, originally a foe of Green Lantern (Hal Jordan) and later The Flash. He is the ex-husband of Blacksmith. A version of the character appeared in the fifth season and sixth season of \"The Flash\", played by actor Damion Poitier.\n\nGoldface was first seen in \"Green Lantern #38\" (July 1965) and was created by John Broome and Gil Kane.\n\nKeith Kenyon is a criminal scientist. He drinks a gold-based serum he has been working on. This grants him superhuman strength and invulnerability. He also exhibits a golden glow.\n\nGold being yellow gives him a great advantage over the superhero Green Lantern, as the hero's powers do not work on that color. However, Goldface is defeated while trying to steal sunken gold needed for his endeavors.\n\nGoldface creates gold-plated armor and a 'gold-gun' which sprays liquid gold. After many clashes with Green Lantern, Kenyon decides to change his motif and ruthlessly began taking over criminal empires. Over time, his flesh itself became a kind of organic metal.\n\nAt some point, his origin was retconned so that he was not a criminal scientist by trade, but a student of political science at the University of California, Coast City, who had discovered a sunken chest of gold contaminated by toxic waste that gave him his powers. The son of a prominent labor union leader, Kenyon initially rebelled against his blue-collar father by pursuing great wealth through a career as a super-criminal.\n\nKenyon eventually moves to Central City and becomes a foe of the Flash (Barry Allen). After serving time, Kenyon moves to Keystone City and, following in his father's footsteps, becomes an honest union leader himself, and now leads Keystone City's largest labor force.\n\nHe was most recently a supporting character in the stories of Wally West, the previous Flash, prominently featured in a story arc that had his ex-wife Blacksmith and her Rogues taking over Keystone and Central City.\n\nHis activities after the \"One Year Later\" jump are unknown, but he is later seen incarcerated and killed by Tomar-Tu after the latter becomes a Darkstar.\n\nGoldface's skin has been altered by exposure to his elixir making him nearly invulnerable to damage. His elixir enhanced his strength, agility, and endurance. He wears armor crafted from the gold he found, which offers some protection from physical and energy attacks, and he often utilizes weapons based on the gold he found. Keith's serum once bestowed upon him the ability to project low frequency emissions of ultraviolet radiation which he called \"Auric Energy\". With this \"Auric Energy\", Goldface not only boasted resistance to opposing energies besides Green Will energy, but he could also change anything or anyone affected by its spread into pure solid gold. He used a prop weapon called his \"Gold Gun\" to hide the fact the energy projection was a natural ability given by the concoction that empowers him, making it seem that the energy came from the gun rather than himself. These so-called \"Auric Energy\" powers seemingly faded away over time, however.\n\nGoldface appears in \"Justice League Unlimited\", voiced by an uncredited Lex Lang. He appears as a recent member of Gorilla Grodd's Secret Society. This version can turn anyone to gold by touching them similar to King Midas. He is first seen in \"Dead Reckoning\" during the raid on Gorilla City turning the gorillas into gold. When the Secret Society holds a meeting with Luthor to discuss their plans, Luthor makes an example out of Goldface and uses a device on his belt to hurt Goldface's face. He survived, for he was then seen during the mutiny within the Secret Society, when he sided against Gorilla Grodd and was subsequently frozen by Killer Frost and blown up by Darkseid along with the other mutineers.\n\nA different type of Goldface appears in the \"\" spin-off comics. This version is a surviving member of Razer's species named Tajz and was given his abilities by Zillius Zox to take out the Interceptor crew.\n\nGoldface appears in \"The Flash\" episode \"Goldfaced,\" portrayed by Damion Poitier. This version is an African-American metahuman with the ability to turn sections of his body to gold, as well as manipulate items made of gold. He operated a black market dealing in stolen high-grade technology for use in robbery and against law enforcement. In addition, Goldface is Blacksmith's ex-boyfriend. Using aliases, Barry Allen and Ralph Dibny infiltrate Goldface's black market to obtain a Neuro-Stasis Field Generator to use against Cicada. Despite his initial suspicions of them, Goldface agrees to give them what they want in exchange for their assistance in a heist at Ivo Laboratories to steal life-saving technology. Unable to go through with the theft, Barry and Ralph take down Goldface's men, even though they had earlier been rendered powerless by Goldface's Meta-Cuffs. They then battle Goldface himself, with Barry managing to defeat him by tricking him into striking an electrical box; causing his gold to melt off and leaving him unconscious. In the episode \"Love is a Battlefield\", Goldface ends up in a turf war with Blacksmith as both were after the Rappaccini's Daughter flower. Thanks to a strategy by the Flash, pollen from the flower was released and caused the two crime lords to hear what they really think about each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125670", "title": "Louis Jean Desprez", "text": "Louis Jean Desprez\n\nLouis Jean Desprez (occasionally but incorrectly \"Jean Louis Desprez\") (May 1743–18 March 1804) was a French painter and architect who worked in Sweden during the last twenty years of his life.\n\nDesprez, who was born in Auxerre in Bourgogne, France. He studied architecture and was awarded the Great Prize of the Académie royale d'architecture in 1770. He traveled frequently to Italy and was associated with Piranesi in Rome. He came to the attention of King Gustav III of Sweden, who offered him a two-year contract as director of scenic decorations at the new Stockholm Opera founded by the King two years earlier. His first task there was the decorations for the new opera\n\"Gustaf Wasa\" (with a libretto authored by the King in collaboration with Johan Henric Kellgren and music by Johann Gottlieb Naumann).\n\nAs an architect, Desprez designed in a monumental, neoclassical style influenced by his study of Greek and Roman ruins in the south of Italy and in Sicily. A good example of this is Hämeenlinna Church in Finland - Finland at that time still being part of the Swedish kingdom - completed in 1799. His greatest project was one never realized: the magnificent new palace planned by the King for the Haga Park outside Stockholm. Because of lack of money, only the foundations were ever built and the project was abandoned after the assassination of the King. The smaller \"royal pavilion\" which stands at Haga was built by architect, Olof Tempelman. \nHis most significant completed project was the conservatory building in the new botanical garden in Uppsala, inaugurated after his death on May 13, 1807, the 100th anniversary of Linnaeus's birth. He also built the Villa Frescati in 1791-92 for Gustaf Mauritz Armfelt, after which the whole Frescati area in Stockholm later was named.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125671", "title": "Bob Marshall Wilderness", "text": "Bob Marshall Wilderness\n\nThe Bob Marshall Wilderness Area is a Congressionally designated wilderness area located in western Montana in the United States. It is named after Bob Marshall (1901–1939), an early forester in the federal government, conservationist, and co-founder of The Wilderness Society. In the 1930s while working for the US Forest Service, Marshall was largely responsible for designation of large areas to be preserved as roadless within lands administered by the U.S. Forest Service; he achieved this through promulgation of various regulations. Formally designated in 1964, the Bob Marshall Wilderness extends for 60 miles (95 km) along the Continental Divide and consists of 1,009,356 acres (4,085 km²).\n\nAs directed by the Wilderness Act of 1964, \"The Bob\", as it is informally known, is to remain roadless. The only permanent structures here are some old ranger stations and horse bridges. \"The Bob\" is the fifth-largest wilderness in the lower 48 states (after the Death Valley Wilderness, Frank Church—River of No Return Wilderness, Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness, and Marjory Stoneman Douglas Wilderness). The five ranger districts administering \"The Bob\" manage 1,856 miles (2,970 km) of trail that are open to foot and stock use only.\n\n\"The Bob\", as it is known by locals and nicknamed by the U.S. Forest Service employees, ranges in altitudes of 4,000 to more than 9,000 feet (1,220 to 2750 m). A long escarpment known as the Chinese Wall averages 1,000 feet (300 m) high from its base and extends for 22 miles (35 km). With numerous waterfalls, lakes, and dense forests, the wilderness is prime Grizzly bear habitat; the U.S. Forest Service claims that the population density of this species is higher in \"The Bob\" than can be found anywhere else in the U.S. outside of Alaska. The Bob is also home to many other large mammals, such as moose, elk, black bear, mountain goat, bighorn sheep, wolverine, cougar, Canadian lynx, and wolf. Bald eagles, osprey, pelican, and trumpeter swan are just a few of the bird species found. The dense old-growth forests are dominated by Douglas fir, larch, and spruce. Forest fires have changed large areas in the wilderness complex in recent years.\nWilderness areas do not allow motorized or mechanical equipment, including bicycles and hanggliders. Camping and fishing are allowed; fishing requires a state license. There are no roads and there is no logging or mining, in compliance with the Wilderness Act. Some administrative cabins constructed in the early 1920s afford refuge for trail crews and wilderness rangers. Wilderness areas within National Forests and Bureau of Land Management areas allow hunting in season.\nThe wilderness, along with the adjoining Scapegoat and Great Bear wildernesses, make up the Bob Marshall Wilderness Complex, with components administered by the Lolo, Flathead, Helena, and Lewis and Clark National Forests, respectively. All three wildernesses total 1,535,352 acres (6,070 km²).\n\nThe wilderness is located in parts of Flathead, Lewis and Clark, Powell, Teton, Missoula, and Pondera counties, and lies mostly within Flathead National Forest (70.3%) and partially within Lewis and Clark National Forest. The wilderness can be accessed by trails (via foot travel or on horseback) from surrounding roads.\n\nU.S. Route 2 is to the north and separates the Bob Marshall Wilderness Complex from Glacier National Park (U.S.). U.S. 89 and 287 are to the east, and Montana highways 200 and 83 are to the south and west. Popular points of entry from the west are located near the communities of Swan Lake, Seeley Lake, Lincoln, and Hungry Horse. From the east, the Bob Marshall Wilderness is accessible from Augusta, Choteau and Dupuyer. The wilderness is approximately 60 miles (97 km) west of Great Falls, Montana; 50 miles (80 km) north of Missoula, and 30 miles (48 km) east of Kalispell; all of the communities have airports with commercial flights.\n\nThe wilderness was administratively created in 1940 from the South Fork, Pentagon, and Sun River Primitive Areas (which were designated in the 1930s). Passage of the Wilderness Act in 1964 provided for this wilderness to become part of the National Wilderness Preservation System.\n\nThe wilderness is named in honor of Bob Marshall, a forester with the U.S. Forest Service (USFS). During the 1930s, he ensured the promulgation of regulations to protect such areas by designating as roadless large areas within lands administered by the USFS.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125672", "title": "Ghetto Supastar (That Is What You Are)", "text": "Ghetto Supastar (That Is What You Are)\n\n\"Ghetto Supastar (That Is What You Are)\" is a song by American rapper Pras, featuring rapper Ol' Dirty Bastard and R&B singer Mýa. It was released on June 6, 1998. The track interpolates Kenny Rogers and Dolly Parton's 1983 single \"Islands in the Stream\" and was produced by Wyclef Jean and Jerry 'Wonda\" Duplessis for Pras' debut solo studio album, \"Ghetto Supastar\". It was also featured on the soundtrack for the 1998 film \"Bulworth\".\n\nThe song's writers are Prakazrel Michel, Wyclef Jean, Russell Jones, Barry Gibb, Robin Gibb, and Maurice Gibb.\n\nThe song was released on 6 June 1998 in the United States. The single was a commercial success; it peaked at number 15 for five consecutive weeks on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number eight on \"Billboard\"s Hot R&B/Hip Hop Songs. The single was certified platinum in the United States by Recording Industry Association of America. \"Ghetto Supastar\" was a critical and commercial success worldwide, peaking at number two in the UK, Sweden, and Australia, number four in Spain, number nine in Canada, as well as topping the charts in eight countries. In 1999, the song received a nomination for Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group at the 41st Grammy Awards. There was a non-album remix version of the song that was performed live many times with Canibus.\n\nAccording to Pras, the song was originally intended to be a collaboration only between himself and Mya. Ol' Dirty Bastard was in the same building, recording with Sunz of Man and mistakenly burst into the studio where Pras and Mya were setting up. Ol' Dirty Bastard heard the song and asked to be part of it, to which Pras agreed.\n\nFrancis Lawrence directed the video, which features actress Halle Berry and actors Warren Beatty, Oliver Platt, and Joshua Malina. In a play on the theme of the film, which is a prominent white politician acting like a Black American, Bulworth in the music video begins to stretch his mouth, revealing himself to be Pras in a mask, who has just become the first African-American U.S. president. Shortly after Pras gets pushed in an elevator, he takes off his suit and performs. Wyclef Jean also appears on the set playing the bass guitar riff at the end of the song. It was nominated for an MTV Video Music Award for Best Rap Video and Best Video from a Film. Another three nominations on the 1998 Billboard Video Music Awards for Best New Artist Clip (Pop), Best New Artist Clip (Rap), and Best New Artist Clip (R&B). It won an 8th Annual MVPA Award in 1999.\n\nThe Bee Gees recorded a version of \"Islands in the Stream\" with the chorus of \"Ghetto Supastar\" replacing the final chorus for their retrospective 2001 compilation \"\". It also appeared on their 2004 \"Number Ones\" and on the 2010 \"Mythology\" box set.\n\n\"Weird Al\" Yankovic included the song in his polka medley \"Polka Power!\" from his 1999 album \"Running with Scissors\".\n\nIn August 2011, Taylor Swift covered \"Ghetto Supastar\" during the North American leg of her Speak Now World Tour. In each city, she chose to pay tribute to a homegrown artist. In Washington, D.C., she performed an acoustic version of \"Ghetto Supastar\", given that Mýa is from Washington, D.C. Swift referred to the song as her \"seventh grade anthem\".\n\nIn 2017, singer/actress Vanessa Hudgens posted a video of herself singing \"Ghetto Supastar\" a capella on Instagram.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125676", "title": "Gary &quot;Litefoot&quot; Davis", "text": "Gary &quot;Litefoot&quot; Davis\n\nGary Paul Davis (born March 1, 1969), known professionally as Litefoot, is an American business professional, actor, musician, and a citizen of the Cherokee Nation. He is the Executive Director of the Native American Financial Services Association (NAFSA), CEO of Davis Strategy Group and a member of the Forbes Finance Council. As an actor, he is known for his roles as Little Bear in the movie \"The Indian in the Cupboard\", and Nightwolf in \"Mortal Kombat Annihilation\".\n\nLitefoot was born in Upland, California, was raised in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and has lived in Seattle, Washington since 1997. He is Cherokee and of Chichimeca (northern Mexican indigenous) descent. He is married to Carmen Davis, who serves as president of the Reach The Rez effort and is of the Makah, Yakama, and Chippewa Cree tribes. They have three sons, Quannah, Sequoyah, and Qwnuseia.\n\nBefore being appointed as Executive Director of NAFSA, Davis served as President and CEO of the National Center for American Indian Enterprise Development (NCAIED) and as a member of the NCAIED’s Board of Directors. He has served as Vice-President of Native Affairs for the Triple Five Group, owners of the world’s largest retail shopping malls; the Mall of America and the West Edmonton Mall and he previously served as co-chair of the National Indian Gaming Association’s, American Indian Business Network.\n\nDavis owns and operates the Davis Strategy Group and has facilitated an array of cross sector business opportunities in Indian Country ranging from energy, acquisitions, casino gaming, hospitality, land development, health and pharmaceutical initiatives. He also owns the Native Style Clothing brand and Red Vinyl Records.\n\nDavis is a successful musician and feature film and television actor with eight award winning albums and starring roles in such films as \"The Indian in The Cupboard\" (in which he played the title character) and television programs such as \"House of Cards\". Although Litefoot is not the first Native American performer of hip hop music, he is among the first Native American hip hop artists to be an enrolled member of a federally recognized tribe. He has won six Native American Music Awards, his most recent for Artist of The Year.\n\nSince 2005, he has hosted and produced his own nationally-distributed hip hop and R&B radio show called \"Reach the Rez Radio\", which broadcasts weekly through Native Voice One Satellite Network. Litefoot produces several clothing lines the best known being the \"Native Style\" brand. He annually spends months of his time working on various reservations across the United States and Canada. His most recent music and speaking tour was the \"Reach the Rez Tour\". This annual project lasted one year, 54,000 miles and 211 events across the United States.\n\nDavis has traveled throughout the United States delivering messages of hope and empowerment to over 450 American Indian communities. As the spokesperson of the \"Reach The Rez Project\", Davis has raised nearly $1.5 million to ensure the success of the effort.\n\nDavis regularly delivers motivational speeches to tribal, educational and corporate audiences as a public speaker. He has provided keynotes and business trainings for corporations and tribes and lectured at a variety of colleges and universities across North America.\nDavis is a recipient of the prestigious Sevenstar Award from the Cherokee Nation Historical Society, presented to a Cherokee who is accomplished in a chosen field, brought honor to the Cherokee people and serves as an inspiration to others. He has also received the Department of Commerce Minority Business Development Agency National Director Special Recognition Award was appointed as an Ambassador of the Department of Energy’s, Minorities in Energy initiative and was also appointed to the United States Small Business Administration’s Council on Underserved Communities. Mr. Davis was recognized as one of the \"Fifty Faces of Indian Country\" by Indian Country Today Media Network.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125687", "title": "O. S. Nock", "text": "O. S. Nock\n\nOswald Stevens Nock (21 January 1905 – 29 September 1994), nicknamed Ossie, was a British railway signal engineer and senior manager at the Westinghouse company; he is well known for his prodigious output of popularist publications on railway subjects, including over 100 books, as well as many more technical works on locomotive performance.\n\nHe authored articles on railway signalling and locomotive performance for \"The Engineer\" researched during World War II, and from 1958 to 1980 he succeeded Cecil J. Allen as the author of the \"British locomotive practice and performance\" series published in \"The Railway Magazine\".\n\nOswald Stevens Nock was born 21 January 1905 in Sutton Coldfield, Warwickshire, the son of a bank employee, Samuel James Nock, and a schoolteacher Rose Amy née Stevens. In early childhood Nock's father became manager of a bank branch in Reading; O.S. Nock was subsequently educated at Marlborough House, and Reading School. After the family moved to Barrow in Furness in 1916 he became a boarder at Giggleswick School. In 1921 he enrolled at the City and Guilds Engineering College, in London, and obtained a degree in engineering in 1924, and joined the Westinghouse Brake and Signal Company in 1925.\n\nRecession during the 1930s (see Great Depression in the United Kingdom) led Nock to seek other forms of income, and after having taken a correspondence course in journalism, began to submit articles to magazines. His first submission was a technical paper on railways submitted to the Institute of Mechanical Engineers. In 1932 he had his first works accepted for publication: the first was an article \"Carlisle, a Station of Changes\" published in January 1932 in \"The Railway Magazine\", also in 1932 the London Evening News bought and published an article written as part of his journalism correspondence course: \"Hyde Park's ghost trains\"; Due to his moonlighting as a journalist, he published under pseudonyms including \"C.K.S\", \"C.K. Stevens\" or \"Railway Engineer\".\n\nIn his early writing career Nock also had published photographic articles on landscapes and regions, published by non-railway publications. A commission for \"The Star\" newspaper enabled him to ride on the footplate of a LMS express locomotive in 1934, subsequently he regularly submitted information on locomotive performance to \"The Railway Magazine\".\n\nNock married Olivia Hattie née Ravenall (1913-1987) in 1937. By 1939 Nock was successful as a both a popular and technical railway author - he received a commission by \"The Engineer\" at the beginning of the Second World War to produce a series of articles on railway signalling, and on locomotive performance under wartime conditions.\n\nAfter World War II Nock rose through the Westinghouse organisation to become chief brake draughtsman (1945), four years later chief draughtsman; during the British Rail modernisation plan (1955) Nock managed the expansion of the company's drawing office, and in 1957 became the company's chief mechanical engineer. Nock's first published book was \"Locomotives of Sir Nigel Gresley\" published 1945, and based on an earlier series of ten articles in \"The Railway Magazine\"; he became a regular author of publishers David and Charles and Ian Allan in the post war boom, publishing on average two books per year whilst working at Westinghouse. In 1959 he took over the writing of the \"British locomotive practice and performance\" reports for \"The Railway Magazine\" from Cecil J. Allen, publishing 264 articles between then and 1980.\n\nIn 1967 he was a passenger on a train involved in a derailment near Didcot in which one person was killed. The carriage where he was sitting overturned, but he escaped without injury, and later wrote of his experience in his book \"Historic Railway Disasters\". He had previously seen the aftermath of another fatal railway accident at Reading in 1914 as a schoolboy.\n\nIn 1969 Nock became president of the Institution of Railway Signal Engineers (IRSE). After retiring in 1970 his output rose to five books per year, including a three volume work on 20th century British locomotives, and eight volumes on the railways of regions of the work.\n\nIn addition to his interests in all things railway, Nock's interests included photography, painting, as well as railway modelling.\n\nHis wife Olivia died in 1987. He died 21 September 1994.\n\nNock authored more than 140 books and 1000 magazine articles, although some of the work represented duplication from his own oeuvre, as well as containing repetition or padding within the text. Much of his work showed a bias towards locomotive performance issues; his most authoritative work was on that subject and on signalling. As a writer his output is considered accessible, uncontroversial, and empathic to the subject he wrote upon, and rich in personal anecdotes, though some feel his historical work and research was weak.\n\nHis better writing has been highly praised:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125689", "title": "Malcolm Evans (cartoonist)", "text": "Malcolm Evans (cartoonist)\n\nMalcolm Paul Evans (born 20 December 1945) is a New Zealand cartoonist residing in Auckland.\n\nUp till September 2014, when they decided they \"needed a change\", Evans' cartoons appeared daily in three major New Zealand newspapers, The \"Manawatu Standard\", \"The Timaru Herald\" and \"The Christchurch Press\". Evans still produces political cartoons for the \"Northland Age\" and still produces his \"Edna\" character, the ubiquitous farmer's wife, which has been running fortnightly since 1976 in New Zealand's largest farming newspaper \"Rural News\". Evans also produces cartoons fortnightly for \"New Zealand Dairy News\" and \"Dairy News Australia\", personal cartoon caricature commissions, and also sculpts and paints.\n\nHaving first worked for \"The New Zealand Herald\" in the 1970s, when he succeeded Sir Gordon Minhinnick, Evans was again its cartoonist for six years from 1997 till 2003 when those opposed to his anti-Zionist cartoons, which the Herald had judged to be \"fair comment\", put pressure on the paper and, following Evans' subsequent refusal to stop drawing cartoon comments on the Israeli treatment of Palestinians, he was subsequently dismissed. During his time at the \"New Zealand Herald\" he was twice judged New Zealand Cartoonist of the Year, a title he held at the time of his firing, along with that of President of the NZCIA - the New Zealand Cartoonists and Illustrators Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125716", "title": "Southeastern Anatolia Project", "text": "Southeastern Anatolia Project\n\nThe Southeastern Anatolia Project (, GAP) is a multi-sector integrated regional development project based on the concept of sustainable development for the 9 million people (2005) living in the Southeastern Anatolia region of Turkey. GAP's basic aim is to eliminate regional development disparities by raising incomes and living standards and to contribute to the national development targets of social stability and economic growth by enhancing the productive and employment generating capacity of the rural sector. The total cost of the project is over 100 billion Turkish lira (TL) (2017 adjusted price), of which 30.6 billion TL of this investment was realized at the end of 2010. The real investment (corrected value) was 72.6% for the end of 2010. The project area covers nine provinces (Adıyaman, Batman, Diyarbakır, Gaziantep, Kilis, Siirt, Şanlıurfa, Mardin, and Şırnak) which are located in the basins of the Euphrates and Tigris and in Upper Mesopotamia.\n\nCurrent activities under GAP include sectors like agriculture and irrigation, hydroelectric power production, urban and rural infrastructure, forestry, education and health. Water resources development envisages the construction of 22 dams and 19 power plants (nine plants, corresponding to 74% capacity of total projected power output, were completed by 2010) and irrigation schemes on an area extending over 17,000 square kilometres. Seven airports have been built and are currently active. The GAP cargo airport in Şırnak, which is also the biggest in Turkey, has been completed.\n\nThe initial idea and decision to utilize the waters of the Euphrates and Tigris rivers came from Atatürk, the founder of the Republic. In the 1920s and 1930s, the need for electrical energy was a priority issue. The Electricity Studies Administration was founded in 1936 to investigate how rivers in the country could be utilized for energy production. The Administration began its detailed studies with the \"Keban Dam Project\" and established observation stations to assess the flow and other characteristics of the Euphrates. The GAP as it is structured today, was planned in the 1970s consisting of projects for irrigation and hydraulic energy production on the Euphrates and Tigris, but transformed into a multi-sector social and economic development program for the region in the early 80s. The development program encompassed such sectors as irrigation, hydraulic energy, agriculture, rural and urban infrastructure, forestry, education and health. With the development of new GAP Administrative structure in 1988–1989, its basic objectives included the improvement of living standards and income levels of people so as to eliminate regional development disparities (economic inequality) and contributing to national goals such as social stability and economic growth by enhancing productivity and employment opportunities in the rural sector.\nTensions between Turkey, Syria and Iraq were raised from time to time due to GAP. Syria and Iraq demanded more water to be released, while Turkey declined so as to form the dam reservoirs. Because of this GAP is one of the world's most well protected dam projects, especially against aircraft. GAP also almost came to a complete halt in the early 1990s due to the high level of Kurdish guerillas (PKK) activities in the region. The PKK is not only blamed for a number of funding cuts as funds were diverted to support the counter-terrorism effort, but is also blamed for damaging several dams and canals, as well as killing engineers working at the dams. A number of economic crises also played a very important part in the delays of GAP.\n\nThe UN embargo on Iraq (which was lifted after the Second Gulf War) had negative effects on development efforts and region's trade with Middle Eastern countries, which are its natural economic partners. Furthermore, imbalances in public financing delayed the financing needs of the project. Finally, a number of judicial questions needed clearing over the flooding of several historical sites as well as local residences as described in the \"Social effect\" section.\n\nHistorically, Southeastern Anatolia was located on the trading route between East and West. The region had been an important source of cultural diversity. However the changes in the trading routes and the agricultural methods ended the old importance of the region.\n\nThe 1989 Master Plan had aimed to initiate the revitalization of the economic, social and cultural life in the region through an \"integrated regional development project\". The rise in the income of the region was directly transferred to restoration and revitalization of the cultural activities in the region, instead of moving into the national budget. This master plan did not reach its goals because of the issues stated under the introduction section. However, for this negative perspective, with the international community involvement, project added new dimensions and concepts to the definitions.\n\nThe concerns and concepts of the environment, sustainability and participation, which were either overlooked or totally absent in the original plan has been added with the UNDP support. The revised \"GAP Regional Development Plan\" with a new understanding is currently in place. The macro frame of the GAP Regional Development Plan (GAP-RDP) is drawn by 8th Five-Year Development Plan coordinated with the efforts under the \"Program for Transition to a Strengthened Economy\" prepared as a part of the process for Turkey's accession to the European Union.\n\nThe project rests upon the philosophy of sustainable human development, which aims to create an environment in which future generations can benefit and develop. The basic strategies of the project include fairness in development, participation, environmental protection, jobs creation, spatial planning and infrastructure development. In reaching these goals the primary objective of GAP is to normalize levels of development, income, and living standards between the southeastern region and other regions of Turkey. GAP is transforming the region completely by creating economic and social opportunities and promoting business. Critical infrastructure, such as airports and highways, is being constructed to support the development of the region. GAP will provide jobs to an estimated 3.5 million people directly.(http://gradworks.umi.com/15/16/1516490.html)\n\nGAP is estimated to double Turkey's irrigable farmland. The increase of agricultural activity of GAP in its incomplete state is visible clearly on the USDA graph above. Cotton production increased from 150,000 metric tons to 400,000 metric tons, making the region the top cotton producer. But at the same time other regions declined, which means that Turkey's overall output stayed relatively steady.\n\nGAP is supposed to create 17,000 square kilometres (4.2 million acres) of farmland in the Harran plain alone, as visible on two USDA maps above.\n\nReports indicate that, due to irrigation from the Atatürk Dam, harvest yields of cotton, wheat, barley, lentils, and other grains in the Harran plain have tripled. A number of Agriculture Department backed initiatives are encouraging farmers to experiment with new varieties of fruits, vegetables, and nuts that did not exist in the region prior.\n\nThe amount of foreign trade of the region is continuously rising since 2002. In 2002, total export from the region was 689 million $ and total imports stood at 773 million $. In 2010, total exports from G.A.P. region reached 4.166 billion $, while imports reached 3.167 billion $. Since 2004 the G.A.P. region is net exporter.\n\nGAP is being built in a region where water used to be a scarcity. With the vast number of lakes being formed, plans to use them as breeding spaces for commercial fishing are also underway. In the case of the Atatürk Dam the fishing industry in the region is already developing.\n\nThe GAP also consists of 19 hydroelectric power plants. These will supply the energy equivalent of 22% of the anticipated total nationwide energy consumption in 2010. Providing 8,900 gigawatt hours (32 PJ), it is one of the largest series of hydroelectric power plants in the world.\n\nSoutheastern Anatolia Project consists of 22 Dams (year of completion):\n\n\nThe reason for the sheer number of dams in the project, more than would at first appear needed, is maintenance. Dams need to be cleaned from the debris carried with the water flow. After a while the dam becomes obsolete as water flow slows down to inadequate levels. The dams will be shut down every 5 to 10 years for \"fall maintenance\" (also called fall cleanup). Water levels are normally lowest in fall. The extra dams are placed in service during this maintenance period.\n\nIn cases of natural disasters such as floods, the maintenance may be performed earlier. The plan is to have one or two dams spare in case an emergency shutdown of any dam is necessary. While shutting down a dam also shuts down irrigation channels linked to it, it can nevertheless continue providing power.\n\nProviding electricity and irrigation is challenging in a region as large as the one targeted by GAP. A constant flow of water is imperative.\nAfter a large body of water is collected behind the dam a constant flow of water is then available. The height of the dam allows the water to go at a high velocity through the turbines thus generating electricity. After the fast flowing water exits the dam it is slowed down by a concrete \"energy dissipator\" (pictured). Creation of electricity is only part of the usage of the tons of water collected at the dam.\n\nWhen dealing with tons of water, it has to be distributed evenly and slowly. Occasionally main channels will need maintenance, or may be damaged due to external reasons. In order to even assess the problem, tons of water need to be removed from the main channel. The best way to do this is to slow the overall flow from the main dam and redirect all water flowing originally through the damaged channel to backup channels. Radial gates serve this purpose, they regulate the flow of water. It is imperative to keep water flowing. Lack of the flow will not only compromise all irrigation linked to that channel but also all cities linked will experience a power outage.\n\nAfter leaving the energy dissipator, water flows into a set of main channels, which flow in different directions supplying water to a greater area. They are the most critical part of a dam project aside from the dam itself. This is as critical as high-voltage transmission lines in power grids.\n\n\"Sluice gates\" regulate the flow of water. If water flows too fast it will overflow and probably damage one or more of the channels, or flood irrigation fields. Multiple sluice gates regulate the speed of the flow on different sections of the channel. They can also be used like radial gates to cut water in channels.\n\nAfter leaving the radial gates on the main channel, water flows to canals which are smaller and can carry less water. Flow regulators divert water on canals to distribution canals. Just like radial gates and sluice gates, flow generators can stop water flow if necessary. Distribution canals are the last step as far as engineers are concerned. It delivers water to different sections of large fields, pretty much an artificial river.\n\nIt is up to farmers to get the water from distribution channels to their crops for irrigation. There are different methods to do this; any one or a combination of earth distribution channel, furrow, and drip tubes can be used.\n\nThe latest design of the project divides the GAP into smaller projects. Each project generates its own annual reports and activity sheets.\n\n\nThe water resources development component of the program envisages the construction of 22 dams and 19 hydraulic power plants and irrigation of 17,000 square kilometres of land. The total cost of the project is estimated at $32 billion USD. The total installed capacity of power plants is 7454 MW and projected annual energy production reaches 27 billion kWh.\n\nCurrently the physical realization of the project stands at 72.6%. Government aims to complete major part of the project by the end of 2012. The amount of government investment for 2010 was around 4 billion TL, which corresponds to 14.2% of Turkey's total investment for same year.\n\nCompletion of the Ilısu Dam would cause the flooding of the ancient city of Hasankeyf whose history stretches back over 10,000 years. Investigations by the Kurdish Human Rights Project (KHRP) found that:\n\nBetween 50 and 68 hamlets and villages will be flooded affecting approximately 25,000 local people. An additional 57 villages will have their land partially flooded.\n\nConstruction began on August 5, 2006 after a ceremony led by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. \n\nCritics of the project say that the dam could effectively destroy the artifacts of ancient Kurdish, Armenian, and Assyrian habitation in the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125721", "title": "Sapiston", "text": "Sapiston\n\nSapiston is a small village in the county of Suffolk in England, UK located near the Suffolk-Norfolk border. It is in northern Suffolk lying on the river Blackbourn (really a stream). The place-name 'Sapiston' is first attested in the Domesday Book of 1086, where it appears as \"Sapestuna\". The name is thought to mean 'village of soapmakers', but this is not certain.\n\nSapiston is bordered to the south-west by Honington, to the north-west by Fakenham Magna, to the north by Euston, to the east by Bardwell, and to the south by Ixworth Thorpe. It is 8 miles from Bury St Edmunds and 6 miles from Thetford in Norfolk.\n\nAlso nearby are RAF Honington and two Joint RAF/USAF Bases, RAF Lakenheath and RAF Mildenhall.\n\nSettled in the 1070s, one of the oldest references thus found of Sapiston is in the history of the Drurys, one of the oldest Suffolk families. Matilda, one of that family, married Henry de Sapiston to become Matilda de Sapiston around 1185.\n\nSapiston church dates back to the 12th century, (a little before the time of Matilda). It has not been in use since 1972 when the parishes of Sapiston and Honington were combined. The church is now maintained by the Churches Conservation Trust and, although Sapiston's church is redundant, occasional services are still held there.\n\nThe village was originally right by the ford across the Blackbourn (or Black Bourn). During the 14th century the entire village moved a few hundred yards north, possibly to escape from the Black Death. Now only the Church of St Andrew and The Grange farmhouse remain at the village’s original location.\n\nIt was in Sapiston that the Suffolk poet Robert Bloomfield, author of \"\"The Farmer's Boy\"\" (1800), worked from the age of ten to the age of fifteen. He was a farm labourer on the farm of his uncle William Austin (who is buried in Sapiston churchyard). Bloomfield was born in nearby Honington, and the church there contains a memorial to the poet, as well as many notes from admirers.\n\nThe local lord of the manor was the Duke of Grafton in neighbouring Euston, Suffolk. The first Duke of Grafton, previously Earl of Euston, was Henry Fitzroy, the son of King Charles II. The third Duke of Grafton was briefly Prime Minister. The current Duke of Grafton is the 12th.\n\nVillage Life & Folk Remembered, a book by Syd Thurlow, was written detailing many local stories about Honington & Sapiston. Here's what the Gazetteer of Suffolk had to say about it in 1855. Kelly's Directory of Suffolk described it like this in 1912.\n\nThis sleepy part of Suffolk proved to be an ideal filming location for the 1970s British TV show \"Dad's Army\". In common with much of the surrounding area, Sapiston and Honington were used for part of the series, in particular the episode \"Dads Army Things that go Bump in the Night\".\n\nDavid Croft, the director/producer of \"Dad's Army\", \"'Allo 'Allo!\", \"Are You Being Served?\", \"Hi-de-Hi!\", etc. lived in Honington.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125724", "title": "Capital Region Independent Schools Association", "text": "Capital Region Independent Schools Association\n\nThe Capital Region Independent Schools Association (Crisa) includes 18 private, independent schools in the region of New York State.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125732", "title": "Giggleswick School", "text": "Giggleswick School\n\nGiggleswick School is an independent co-educational boarding school in Giggleswick, near Settle, North Yorkshire, England.\n\nIn 1499, Giggleswick School was founded on half an acre of land leased by the Prior and Convent of Durham, to James Carr, the chantry priest at the Parish Church of St Alkelda, to enclose and build, at his own expense, one 'Gramar Scole'. By 1512 the school consisted of two small, irregular buildings, next to the parish church. The school was run by the chantry priests until Edward VI dissolved the position. The school was saved by the petition of the King's Chaplain, John Nowell, and in 1553 it received its royal charter. The charter granted land and endowed it with the title: The Free Grammar School of King Edward the VI of Giggleswick. There is some evidence that there was a school on the same site from an earlier date. \nGiggleswick was one of 27 schools listed in the Public Schools Yearbook of 1889, and has claims to be one of the oldest public schools, although claims vary depending on the criteria used. In 2012 the school celebrated its 500th anniversary with numerous events throughout the year, including a ball, an outside concert and fireworks display.\nThe school continued in its original location until 1867, when it moved out of the village centre up the hill to its present location. At this point, a major expansion of the school and its facilities began. Boarding accommodation was added, playing fields were laid out, and new classrooms built.\n\nThe only remaining part of the second school, the covered courtyard, was converted into a shooting range, used by the school's Combined Cadet Force contingent and other Territorial Army units.\n\nIn 1897, work began on the school chapel, a gift from local landowner and school governor Walter Morrison (MP). The architect, T.G. Jackson designed the building to Morrison's unusual specifications: a Gothic structure with a dome, that fitted into the surrounding landscape as naturally as possible. It was Morrison's wish that the building should be completely fitted and furnished inside, to allow for no unsympathetic alteration in the future.\n\nThe interior was filled with expensive fixtures and fittings. The pews were made of imported cypress wood, the floors covered in marble, and the organ was made by Henry Willis & Sons, a leading organ makers at the time. It was rebuilt in 2005 by GO-Organ Builders Ltd. The chapel's dome was covered in copper which developed a distinctive green verdigris colour, reverting to the original bronze colour after restoration in the late 1990s. The interior of the dome was decorated with mosaics depicting angels playing musical instruments, with the four gospel writers at each corner of the base. The altar furniture is made of sterling silver and Brazilian rosewood. It was presented to the school in memory of Sir Douglas Glover, an old boy and school governor. \n\nIn 1934, the school was enlarged by the addition of a preparatory school, Catteral Hall for pupils aged 7–13, a new boarding house was created from the Georgian Beck House in the village (Style House), and in 1966 another boarding house, Morrison, was opened. In the 1970s the school became co-educational, the first public school in the north of England to do so.\nIn the late 1990s a pre-preparatory school, Mill House for children aged 3–7 was opened in the grounds of Catteral Hall, and more recent expansion at the school has created a library, dining hall, sports facilities and science laboratories and refurbished the boarding accommodation.\n\nIn the 2000s, Giggleswick School (senior, 13-18), Catteral Hall (prep, 7-13) and Mill House (pre-prep, 2-7) were reorganised to create Giggleswick Junior School (2-11) and Giggleswick School (11-18) under a unified Giggleswick brand.\n\nGiggleswick is one of only 18 schools to possess a Royal Marine cadet force, which became affiliated with HMS Bulwark in the autumn of 2004.\n\nPupils from the school (and pupils from Cranleigh School and Charterhouse School) operate the manual scoreboards at the Open Championship golf tournament. These pupils receive recognition on television each year from golf broadcaster Peter Alliss, on both the BBC in the UK and on ESPN and ABC in the United States.\n\nIn September 2014 a new headmaster (Mark Turnbull) was to replace the then current headmaster Geoffrey Boult who was retiring after 14 years at the school.\n\nThere are four boys' boarding houses:\n\n\nNowell, Paley and Shute are located in the main body of the school (called the Hostel), while Morrison, the most recently built is further from the main school campus. As well, Nowell has recently been refurbished to fit the times.\n\nThe two girls' houses are:\n\nThere is a mixed junior boarding house for pupils in years 4–8 which is also the house for day pupils in years 7 & 8, called Catteral House.\n\nThe grounds of Giggleswick School near the chapel were selected as the official observation post for the 1927 solar eclipse from where Sir Frank Watson Dyson, the Astronomer Royal, had an uninterrupted view of the flaming corona of the sun through the 23 seconds of its total eclipse. In 2014 the school was rebuilding its own observatory.\n\nFor notable alumni, sometimes referred to as Old Giggleswickians, see including:\n\n\n\nAllegedly the Three Peaks Walk was invented in July 1887 by two masters at the school: D. R. Smith and J. R. Wynne-Edwards (father of Sir Robert Wynne-Edwards – see OG's above).\n"}
{"id": "2125739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125739", "title": "XIII Catalan", "text": "XIII Catalan\n\nXIII Catalan were a semi professional rugby league team from Perpignan in the Pyrénées-Orientales region of southern France. They were founded in 1934, and thus were founding members of the French rugby league championship. In 2000 they merged with nearby neighbours AS Saint Estève to form Union Treiziste Catalane, now better known in the English-speaking world by their Super League identity of Catalans Dragons.\n\nIn 1888 rugby was introduced to Perpignan by students returning from the Lycée Michelet in Paris. Rugby League arrived in the form of XIII Catalan in 1934 under the guidance of Marcel Laborde so becoming one of the founder members of the first league in France. The club's first chairman Dr Gaston Banet and Roger Ramis the head coach, found many early difficulties the main one being unable to secure a stadium to use. The local rugby club USAP Perpignan successfully blocked their attempts to hire a stadium and for the first month of the season they had to play all away matches. In October 1934 English side Salford RLFC toured the fledgling rugby nation and one of the matches planned was in Perpignan. The club finally found some land to use and after volunteers had demolished a house and marked out a pitch builders then erected a stand. The first ever Rugby League match was then able to take place. The locals saw their side beaten by Salford 16-41, but one of their own scored the historic first try in Aime Bardes. The team's first league match on 7 October also ended in defeat 25-48 at US Villeneuve they finished 6th that season and in the Lord Derby Cup they reached the final but lost to Lyon Villeurbanne.\n\nXIII Catalan lifted their first French rugby league championship in the second season beating Bordeaux XIII in the final. The following season they reached both league and cup finals but lost both. In 1938-39 season they won the cup for the first time beating Toulouse Olympique at their own ground 7-3. The last season before the war saw them win the league again when they beat Pau XIII 20-16 in front of 10,000 fans in Toulouse. During the war the Vichy Government banned Rugby League in France. XIII Catalan had to change their name to XV Catalan and were forced to play rugby union. Before the war ended they changed their name again to Racing Catalan.\n\nAfter the war the club went back to Rugby League and on 29 December 1948 they beat the mighty touring Australia national rugby league team 20-5 in front of 12,254 fans. They repeated the feat in 1964 winning 15-11 other honours came their way with a title in each decade 57,69 and 79. The 1980s would prove to be the club's most successful period. The era didn't start very well when the club was suspended by the league in 1981 for their players misbehaviour in the suspended 1981 final in Toulouse, but they bounced back and they won the title 5 times, including four consecutive seasons from 81-82. The cup was also won in 1985 to complete a league and cup double they were also runner up in the league 3 times and the cup twice. After a lean patch during the 1990s Bernard Guasch had a vision of a super club in the region and in 2000 he was able to bring together XIII Catalan and local rivals AS Saint Esteve as one club Union Treiziste Catalane\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125745", "title": "List of Burkinabes", "text": "List of Burkinabes\n\nThis is a list of notable people from Burkina Faso, formerly French Upper Volta.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See: List of Burkinabé writers\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125760", "title": "Papingo", "text": "Papingo\n\nPapingo (, also transcribed as Papigko, Papigo) is a former community (1919-2010) in the Ioannina regional unit, Epirus, Greece. Since the 2011 local government reform (the so-called Kallikratis Law) it has become part of the municipality of Zagori, of which it is a municipal unit. The municipal unit has an area of 34.131 km. It is located in the Vikos–Aoös National Park.\n\nPapingo consists of two villages: Megalo Papingo (Greek: Μεγάλο Πάπιγκο) and Mikro Papingo (Greek: Μικρό Πάπιγκο), \"greater\" and \"lesser\" Papingo. There is a single road that provides access first to Megalo Papingo and a kilometre further to Mikro Papingo.\n\nThe village of Papingo is located very near the northern end of the Vikos Gorge and is inside the Vikos–Aoös National Park. It attracts many hikers and mountaineers from around the world. The Vikos Gorge is the largest canyon in Greece and arguably in all of Europe: it is the gorge with the greatest depth to width ratio, according to the Guinness Book of Records 1997. The village of Papingo is surrounded by deciduous forests and topped by the snowcapped Astraka peak of Mt Tymphe, that towers over the village. It has modest lodging provisions as well as tavernas serving traditional food, coffee, and spirits. \n\nThe climate of the region is Mediterranean transitioning to Continental with heavy snowfalls in the winter and considerable rainfall and humidity also during the other seasons of the year. There is a very diverse flora and fauna, because of the many microenvironments, such as streams, rivers, lakes, forests, agricultural land, coppices, pasture, sub-alpine grassland and the unique biotope of the Vikos Gorge.\n\nA footpath leads up from the village through the sub-alpine plateaus of Mt Tymphe to Drakolimni (\"Dragonlake\"), a glacial lake at an altitude of 2000 m. The trek to the lake lasts about 5 hours. Along the way, at an altitude of 1950 m, there is a mountain refuge, the Mountain Hut of Tymphe or of Astraka. It normally operates from May to October although it has solar panels that enable its use throughout the year. Use during the winter months can be arranged by appointment.\n\nAnother landscape attraction is a series of rock pools known as the Kolymbethres (Gr. term for \"baptismal fonts\") or the Ovires of Rogovos, which have been formed in the limestone by the so-called stream of Rogovos running down Mt Tymphe.\n\nPapingo is first mentioned in a bull of Byzantine emperor Andronikos III Palaiologos from 1325. The village enjoyed a period of prosperity from the 15th to the 17th centuries due to the special privileges that the region of Zagori had secured from the Ottoman Sultan. A Greek school called the \"Kallineios School\" was built in 1780 with funds by Michael Anagnostopoulos, a wealthy expatriate living in the United States of America. The village's prosperity ended in the 19th C when the administrative privileges were withdrawn. A demographic decline ensued that continued through the 20th C, even after the union of Epirus with Greece following the Balkan Wars. There has been a small increase in the population of the two villages in recent decades, after they became a tourist attraction, especially following the Kallikratis Law project.\n\nThe Kallineios School, founded in 1780, houses also the library of its founder, Michael Anagnostopoulos. Among the churches of Megalo Papingo, the church of Saint Blaise (Agios Blasios) dates from 1852 but is built on top of the foundations of an older church from 912. The church of St George (Agios Georgios) dates from 1774 and was renovated in 1880. The church of Panagia is also said to date from 1774. Outside Papingo near the main road that leads to the village is the Monastery of St Paraskevi (Agia Paraskevi), a Byzantine foundation. The 18th century church of the Archangels Michael and Gabriel (known also as the \"Taxiarchs\") in Mikro Papingo has a wonderful wooden screen made by Epirotan craftsmen. It was originally the chapel of a monastery and its only remaining building.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125764", "title": "The Rebels Not In", "text": "The Rebels Not In\n\nThe Rebels Not In (1998) is the name of the third and to date final album recorded by the American group The Halo Benders.\n\nThe album was released on K Records on 3 February 1998 on vinyl LP and compact disc. It was the third full-length release from the Halo Benders, a side project of Calvin Johnson (of Beat Happening) and Doug Martsch (of Built to Spill). Its catalogue number is KLP81.\n\nThe Rebels Not In has a generally more polished sound than the Halo Benders' previous two efforts.\n\nThe unique intro drum beat on \"Bury Me\" is a nod to The Wedding Present song \"Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah\" from their 1994 album, \"Watusi\". This is further evidenced by Martsch's chorus of \"Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2125772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125772", "title": "Saint-Estève XIII Mavericks", "text": "Saint-Estève XIII Mavericks\n\nSaint-Estève XIII Mavericks are a French Rugby league side based in Saint-Estève near Perpignan in the département of Pyrénées-Orientales. Originally known as AS Saint-Estève. They was founded in 1965. The club compete in the National Division 2 Languedoc-Rousillon league. Home games are played at the Stade Municipal.\n\nThe club was founded in 1965 as Association Sportive Saint-Estève XIII better known as AS Saint-Estève. For a club of its size the success they had was remarkable their best spell was between 1986 and 2000 when they contested 17 finals winning 8 of them. Their best season was 1992-93 when they completed their one and only league and cup double. In 2000 Bernard Guasch brought Saint Esteve and XIII Catalan together to form Union Treiziste Catalane, better known in the English speaking world by their Super League identity of Catalans Dragons. The aim was to get the new club into the Super League which they did in 2006. A presence in the French Elite One Championship was maintained by firstly the retaining of the name Union Treiziste Catalane and then after a rebranding \"Saint-Esteve XIII Catalan\".\n\nMeanwhile, the youth teams which had been set up in 1968 were maintained under a new name Saint-Estève XIII nicknamed the \"Mavericks\". It was then decided that the \"Elite One\" club needed a feeder team so the \"Mavericks\" introduced a senior side to go along with their junior sides. Thus a new club was born out of an old club while retaining its own identity\n\n\"Saint-Estève\" play at the Stade Municipal which is a stadium used for rugby. It has floodlights and a main stand with 2,000 seats. In 2015 it hosted France A match against the Serbia national rugby league team. The stadium is also used by Saint-Estève XIII Catalan in the French Elite One Championship.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125777", "title": "The Press", "text": "The Press\n\nThe Press is a daily newspaper published in Christchurch, New Zealand. It is owned by media business Stuff Ltd, which is in turn owned by Australian media company Nine. First published in 1861, the newspaper is the largest circulating daily in the South Island and publishes Monday to Saturday. Four community newspapers—\"Mid Canterbury Herald\", \"The Christchurch Mail\", \"Northern Outlook\" and \"Central Canterbury News\"—are also published by \"The Press\" and are free.\n\nThe newspaper has won the title of New Zealand Newspaper of the Year (in its circulation category) three times: in 2006, 2007 and 2012. It has also won the overall Newspaper of the Year title twice: in 2006 and 2007.\n\nJames FitzGerald came to Lyttelton on the \"Charlotte Jane\" in December 1850, and was from January 1851 the first editor of the \"Lyttelton Times\", Canterbury's first newspaper. From 1853, he focussed on politics and withdrew from the \"Lyttelton Times\". After several years in England, he returned to Canterbury concerned about the proposed capital works programme of the provincial government, with his chief concern the proposed rail tunnel connecting Christchurch and Lyttelton, which he thought of as fiscally irresponsible, but supported by his old newspaper, the \"Lyttelton Times\". The newspaper's editor, Crosbie Ward, made an imputation of unknown content, and this spurred FitzGerald to set up \"The Press\" as a rival newspaper.\n\nFitzGerald had dinner with John Charles Watts-Russell, who put up £500 on the condition that FitzGerald would be in charge of the new newspaper. Next, he enlisted the support of the Rev. John Raven, who organised many of the practical aspects, like organising a printer and a printing press. Other members of the early committee that organised \"The Press\" were Henry Porcher Lance (brother of James Dupré Lance), Henry Tancred, and Richard J. S. Harman; all of them were colonial gentry.\n\n\"The Press\" was first published on 25 May 1861 from a small cottage, making it the oldest surviving newspaper in the South Island of New Zealand. The cottage belonged to Raven on land known as Raven's paddock on the west side of Montreal Street, between Worcester and Gloucester Streets, opposite the present-day Christchurch Art Gallery. The first edition was a six-page tabloid and was sold for sixpence. The paper continued as a weekly. The public saw FitzGerald as the proprietor of \"The Press\", but the newspaper saw reason to publicly state that \"it is not a fact that Mr FitzGerald has either pecuniary or official connexion\" with it; he was however the driving force behind the paper.\n\nOn 13 June 1863, the first part of Samuel Butler's \"Erewhon\" appeared in \"The Press\" in an article signed with the pseudonym \"Cellarius\" (q.v.) and headed \"Darwin among the Machines.\"\n\nIn 1905, \"The Press\" purchased a block of the Cathedral Square site for £4,000. The Board then purchased the right of way (Press Lane) and what was going to be the original Theatre Royal site from the Theatre Royal Syndicate for £5000. The Gothic part of the Press building (occupied by the company until 22 February 2011) was built starting in 1907 and the Press staff shifted into it in February 1909 from their Cashel Street premises.\n\nIn the 1930s, \"The Press\" began to seek solutions to the slow delivery times of the newspaper to the West Coast. Roads at the time were difficult, and the New Zealand Railways Department was unwilling to reschedule any of its ordinary passenger trains to operate at the early morning times desired by \"The Press\" as patronage would have been uneconomic, and freight trains did not provide a desirable measure of swiftness. Accordingly, \"The Press\" was willing to subsidise the construction and operation of two small Leyland diesel railbuses to carry the newspapers by rail at a desirable time. These little railbuses began service on 3 August 1936 and left Christchurch at 2:20 am, travelling down the Midland Line to reach Greymouth at 6:40 am and then continue along the Ross Branch as far as Hokitika, arriving just before 8:00 am. This provided substantially quicker delivery of the newspaper than was previously possible. However, these railbuses were intended to only be a temporary measure and they were replaced by the much larger Vulcan railcars as soon as they arrived in New Zealand in the early 1940s.\n\nIn 1995, \"The Press\" was the country's first news outlet that established a website for news. In 2000, Independent Newspapers Ltd (INL) launched its news website branded as Stuff and from then on, \"The Press\" and Stuff worked on online content collaboratively.\n\nIn February 2011, \"The Press\" main building in central Christchurch was badly damaged in the 2011 Christchurch earthquake. All production was operated from their printing plant near Christchurch Airport until June 2012, when the central Christchurch building was partially rebuilt and upgraded. It was one of the first buildings in the Christchurch CBD to be rebuilt and operational.\n\nThe paper format for the weekday editions changed from broadsheet to compact in 2018, with only the Saturday edition retaining the larger format.\n\nThe motto on the masthead – \"Nihil utile quod non-honestum\" translates to \"Nothing is useful that is not honest.\" Like \"The Age\" in Australia, the newspaper's masthead features the Royal Arms.\n\nThe early ownership, beyond the newspaper having been financed by Watts-Russell, is unclear. In February 1862, an attempt was made to form a company and formalise the ownership of the paper. A deed of association for \"The Proprietors of The Press\" was drafted, and it lists the five members of the previous committee (Watts-Russell, Raven, Lance, Tancred, and Harman), plus five new members: Alfred Richard Creyke, John Hall, Joseph Brittan, Isaac Cookson, and James Somerville Turnbull. Surprisingly, the deed was not executed, but four-month later, FitzGerald, who had no funds, was the sole owner \"through the liberality of the proprietors\", as he called it later. FitzGerald lost control of the newspaper ownership in 1868 and the Press Company was incorporated as the owner. That company was dissolved in 1890 and George Stead bought the assets. Stead established the Christchurch Press Company and became its chairman.\n\nThe Christchurch Press Company was sold to Independent Newspapers Ltd in 1987, and INL in turn was bought by Fairfax New Zealand in 2003. The Australian parent company, Fairfax Media, merged with Nine Entertainment Co. in December 2018.\n\nThe following have been editors of \"The Press\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125786", "title": "Paul Attanasio", "text": "Paul Attanasio\n\nPaul Albert Attanasio (born November 14, 1959) is an American screenwriter and film and television producer, who was an executive producer on the television series \"House\" (2004–2012). He received Academy Award nominations for \"Quiz Show\" (1994) and \"Donnie Brasco\" (1997) screenplays.\n\nPaul Attanasio was born in The Bronx, New York City, the son of Connie, a real estate broker, and Joseph Attanasio, a commercial consultant. He grew up in the Pelham Bay section of the Bronx, and later in Tenafly, New Jersey, where he attended public high school. He is a 1981 graduate of Harvard College, where he lived in Currier House, and earned his law degree at Harvard Law School in 1984.\n\nAttanasio was a film critic for \"The Washington Post\" from 1984 to 1987. He started writing for television with the CBS sitcom \"Doctor Doctor\" and the NBC crime drama \"\", for which he holds a 'Created by' credit.\n\nIn 1995 he won a BAFTA for his screenplay adaptation for the drama \"Quiz Show\". He later wrote the screenplays for the thriller \"Disclosure\", the gangster movie \"Donnie Brasco\", the science fiction film \"Sphere\", and the political thriller \"The Sum of All Fears\". In 2000 he returned to television and started executive producing, in addition to writing, the medical drama \"Gideon's Crossing\" and the pilot for \"R.U.S.H\". Along with David Shore, he is one of the creators of the TV series \"House\", of which he was executive producer. In 2006 he wrote the screenplay for the dramatic film \"The Good German\".\nIn 2017, it was confirmed that Attanasio will be the writer and executive producer on the new Amazon Video series \"Tong Wars\".\nHe is a co-creator of the series \"Bull\" (2016 TV series).\nHe is the writer/producer of the 2020 CBS police drama \"Tommy\".\n\nFormerly married to Katie Jacobs, he is now married to Amanda Benefiel, an artist, and has three children, Annabelle, John, and Grace. He is the brother of Mark Attanasio, a Los Angeles investment manager who is the principal owner of the Milwaukee Brewers.\n\nAttanasio's son John, aged 16 at the time, drove a Chevrolet Camaro his father bought for him on his 16th birthday, and was filmed in a road rage incident where he shouted homophobic abusive slurs at the other driver and claiming that his own vehicle was \"a million dollar car\". John's car was worth less than $60,000.\n\nAttanasio was featured in \"The Dialogue\" interview series. In a 90-minute interview with producer Mike DeLuca, he describes how he went from lambasting movies as a \"snotty\" \"Washington Post\" film critic to developing rewarding creative partnerships with Oscar-winning directors Robert Redford, Barry Levinson, and Steven Soderbergh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125792", "title": "Giggleswick", "text": "Giggleswick\n\nGiggleswick, a village and civil parish in the Craven district of North Yorkshire, England, lies on the B6480 road, less than north-west of the town of Settle and divided from it by the River Ribble. It is the site of Giggleswick School.\n\n\"A Dictionary of British Place Names\" contains the entry:\n\nThe village is served by Giggleswick railway station which provides services to Leeds in one direction and Lancaster and Morecambe in the other. There are five trains a day in each direction, is operated by Northern.\n\nClose to the station and opposite the \"Craven Arms Hotel\" (formerly the \"Old Station Inn\") is the Plague Stone. This has a shallow trough, which in times of plague was filled with vinegar to sterilize the coins that were left by townspeople as payment for food brought from surrounding farms. The stone was moved a short distance from its original site when the Settle bypass was built.\n\nThe parish church is dedicated to St Alkelda, an obscure Anglo-Saxon saint associated with the North Yorkshire town of Middleham. The building dates mostly from the 15th century, but carved stones discovered during the restoration of 1890–1892 indicated that a building existed on the site before the Norman Conquest. It has been designated by English Heritage as a Grade I listed building. The restoration was carried out by the Lancaster architects Paley, Austin and Paley, and included replacing the roof, removing the gallery, rebuilding the vestry, and reseating, replastering and reflooring the church.\n\nRichard Whiteley of Channel 4's \"Countdown\" was a pupil at Giggleswick School. In his will he left the school £500,000, which was used to build a new theatre named after him. Russell Harty was an English teacher at the same time that Whiteley attended as a pupil. The operatic soprano, Sarah Fox, was born in the village and attended Giggleswick School. The \"Star Wars\" actor Anthony Daniels also attended the school. The film and stage actor Clarence Blakiston (1864–1943) was born here, as was Henry Maudsley, the pioneering British psychiatrist, at a farm outside Giggleswick in 1835. The Victorian-era actor Sir John Hare was born here in 1844. Professor Sir Nevill Francis Mott, who won the Nobel prize in physics in 1977, was born in Leeds, and brought up in Giggleswick.\n\nGiggleswick is notable amongst rock climbers for a limestone crag, retro-bolted with many sports routes during 2005 and 2006. The crag is opposite Settle Golf Club on the B6480, north of Giggleswick.\n\nAn episode of the radio comedy \"The Shuttleworths\" was set in Giggleswick. Comedy writers Ray Galton and Alan Simpson used the town as their emblem of a travelling actor's date with obscurity in \"Hancock's Half Hour\", The Train Journey episode, broadcast on 23 October 1959. Les Dawson did the same, in 1975, in \"Dawson's Weekly\". In 1989, the TV series \"Capstick's Law\", focused on a family law firm in the 1950s, was filmed using Russell Harty's old cottage as a venue. The TV series \"24seven\" was filmed at Giggleswick School.\n\nAmong few observers of a 24-second solar eclipse in 1927 were members of the Astronomer Royal's expedition to Giggleswick.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125793", "title": "X-ray fluorescence holography", "text": "X-ray fluorescence holography\n\nX-ray fluorescence holography (XFH) is a holography method with atomic resolution based on atomic fluorescence. It is a relatively new technique that benefits greatly from the coherent high-power X-rays available from synchrotron sources, such as the Japanese SPring-8 facility.\n\nFluorescent X-rays are scattered by atoms in a sample and provide the object wave, which is referenced to non-scattered X-rays. A holographic pattern is recorded by scanning a detector around the sample, which allows researchers to investigate the local 3D structure around a specific element in a sample.\n\nIt is useful for investigating the effects of irradiation on high temperature superconductors.\n\nOne of the criticisms for this method is that it suffers from twin images. D. Gabor. Barton proposed that reconstructed phased images of holograms will suppress twin images effects.\n"}
{"id": "2125799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125799", "title": "Yazılıkaya", "text": "Yazılıkaya\n\nYazılıkaya (Turkish; \"inscribed rock\") was a sanctuary of Hattusa, the capital city of the Hittite Empire, today in the Çorum Province, Turkey. Rock reliefs are a prominent aspect of Hittite art, and these are generally regarded as the most important group. \nThis was a holy site for the Hittites, located within walking distance of the gates of the city of Hattusa. It had two main chambers formed inside a group of rock outcrops. Access to the roofless chambers were controlled by gateway and building structures built right in front of them, however only the foundations of those structures survived today. Most impressive today are the rock reliefs of Chambers A and B portraying the gods of the Hittite pantheon. One of the uses of the sanctuary may have involved the New Year's celebrations ceremonies. A 2019 journal article by Rita Gautschy and Eberhard Zangger suggested that the place may have served as a time-keeping device, with the carvings serving as markers for lunar and solar movement. It was in use at least since late 16th century BCE, but most of the rock carvings date to the reign of the Hittite kings Tudhaliya IV and Suppiluliuma II in the late 13th century BCE, when the site underwent a significant restoration.\nThe most impressive is Chamber A, which contains rock-cut relief of 64 deities in procession. The left wall shows a procession of male deities, wearing the traditional kilts, pointed shoes and horned hats. Mountain gods are also shown with scaled skirts to symbolise the rocky mountains. The right wall shows a procession of female deities wearing crowns and long skirts. The only exception to this divide is the goddess of love and war, Shaushka (Mesopotamian goddess Ishtar/Inanna) who is shown on the male procession with two female attendants. This is likely to be because of her male attributes as the goddess of war. The processions lead to a central scene of the supreme couple of the pantheon: the storm-god Teshub and the sun-goddess Hebat. Teshub stands on two mountain gods whilst Hebat stands on a panther. Behind Hebat are shown their son Sharruma, daughter Alanzu and a granddaughter.\n\nThe smaller and narrower Chamber B has fewer but larger and better preserved reliefs. It may have served as a mortuary mausoleum or memorial for the Hittite king Tudhaliya IV.\n\nThe Hittite practise of assimilating other cultures' gods into their own pantheon is in evidence at Yazilikaya. The Mesopotamian god of wisdom, Ea (Enki) is shown in the male procession and the god Teshub was a Hurrian god who was syncretized with the Hittite storm-god. Hebat's original consort was changed into her and Teshub's son (Sharruma) and she was later syncretized with the Hattic Sun goddess of Arinna. It is believed that Puduhepa, who was the daughter of a Hurrian priestess and the wife of the Hittite king Hattusili III, also played a role in the increasing Hurrian influence on the Hittite religion.\n\n"}
