{"id": "2156973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2156973", "title": "University of Pittsburgh Medical Center", "text": "University of Pittsburgh Medical Center\n\nThe University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC) is a $21billion integrated global nonprofit health enterprise that has 89,000 employees, 40 hospitals with more than 8,000 licensed beds, 700 clinical locations including outpatient sites and doctors' offices, a 3.7million-member health insurance division, as well as commercial and international ventures. It is closely affiliated with its academic partner, the University of Pittsburgh. It is considered a leading American health care provider, as its flagship facilities have ranked in \"U.S. News & World Report\" \"Honor Roll\" of the approximately 15 to 20 best hospitals in America for over 15 years. As of 2016, UPMC is ranked 12th nationally among the best hospitals (and first in Pennsylvania) by \"U.S. News & World Report\" and ranked in 15 of 16 specialty areas when including UPMC Magee- Hospital. This does not include UPMC Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh which ranked in the top 10 of pediatric centers in a separate \"US News\" ranking.\n\nUPMC has its roots in the 1893 establishment of Presbyterian Hospital, which serves as the medical center's flagship facility, and the 1886 founding of the Western Pennsylvania Medical College. Soon after its founding, the medical college became affiliated with the Western University of Pennsylvania in 1892, and in 1908, was fully integrated into the university which that same year was renamed to the University of Pittsburgh. Already having worked out informal agreements for teaching and staffing privileges with a number of local hospitals, Pitt and its School of Medicine desired to establish an academic medical center, and by the mid-1920s had formed a plan with a coalition of city hospitals to have them relocate to the Oakland neighborhood of the city that the university had itself moved to in 1909. The University provided Presbyterian Hospital, then located on the North Side, with a tract of land on its campus for construction of a new hospital which broke ground in 1930 and was subsequently opened in 1938. By the end of the 1930s, the University of Pittsburgh had helped to form the \"University Medical Center\" which included Falk Clinic, Children's, Eye and Ear, Libby Steele Magee, Presbyterian General, and Women's Hospital, as well as the planned Municipal Hospital. In 1949, a new affiliation agreement between the University and Presbyterian Hospital established a three-tiered mission of patient care, research, and education and by 1951, the hospital name changed to Presbyterian University Hospital in order to reflect its close ties with the University of Pittsburgh. In 1958, the \"University of Pittsburgh Health Center\" was noted to comprise (1) Schools of Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Nursing, and the Graduate School of Public Health; (2) Presbyterian, Woman's, Children's, Eye and Ear, and Magee Hospitals; and (3) Falk Clinic, Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, Child Guidance Center, Salk Hall, and Central Blood Bank. Through the years, the University and the hospitals moved toward an ever-tightening alliance. In 1965, the University, Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic which was managed by the School of Medicine, Presbyterian-University, Magee and Women's, Eye and Ear, and Children's Hospitals incorporated the University Health Center of Pittsburgh (UHCP). In 1969, Montefiore Hospital joined UHCP. In the 1970s, a new model of administration, in which clinical revenues were invested into research, was implemented at Western Psychiatric under the leadership of Thomas Detre. After guiding the psychiatric institute to become one of the largest recipients of National Institute of Health funding, Detre assumed leadership overseeing all six of the University's schools of health sciences in the early 1980s. Implementing the same administrative model in those units, the collective schools of the health sciences and medical center were ultimately transformed into one of the largest centers for biomedical research in the nation.\n\nBeginning in 1986, members of the University Health Center including Presbyterian University Hospital, Falk Clinic, the Pittsburgh Cancer Institute and Eye & Ear Hospital began to consolidate. The consolidated group, re-termed the Medical and Health Care Division (MHCD) and led by Detre, became closely linked administratively, although Presbyterian University Hospital remained a separate entity. In 1990, MHCD acquired neighboring Montefiore Hospital which it merged with Presbyterian University Hospital to form the entity that was then renamed as the \"University of Pittsburgh Medical Center\" (shortened to UPMC), which was the first time the current name of the medical center was officially used. UPMC then began to form a network of affiliated specialty and community hospitals in 1994 termed the Tri-State Health System and established a for-profit health insurance division, UPMC Health Plan, which contracted with these hospitals. In 1996, UPMC had moved to acquire South Side, Aliquippa and Braddock hospitals. Meanwhile, UPMC began to merge with several of the already affiliated Tri-State hospitals including St. Margaret Memorial, Shadyside, and Passavant hospitals in 1997 and Magee- Hospital in 1998. The acquisition and mergers of hospitals morphed the Tri-State Health System into a consolidation of hospitals that currently makes up a significant portion of the UPMC health system. Due to its immense growth of the medical center, as well as the University's concerns regarding the financial risks associated with its faculty practice plans in the face of national changes in health care reimbursements, the University of Pittsburgh and UPMC restructured their relationship and legally separated in 1998 thus launching UPMC as an independent nonprofit corporation with the University identified as a supported organization in its articles of incorporation. The University consolidated its physicians' practice plans and transferred them, along with the university's hospital management functions, to UPMC, with UPMC providing ongoing financial support to the University and its academic missions in return. The result was a mutually exclusive partnership of close affiliation formalized by a series of interrelated agreements and mutual executive oversights, which includes the sharing of numerous board members. This created a collaborative and coordinated decision-making model in which UPMC oversees all clinical activity, while the University of Pittsburgh remains the guardian of all academic priorities, particularly faculty-based research.\n\nExpansion of UPMC continued in 2001 as Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh began merging with UPMC. Since then, UPMC's growth has continued, including a merger with Mercy Hospital in 2008; the opening of new Children's Hospital facilities in 2009; the integrations of Hamot Medical Center in Erie, Pennsylvania, in 2011, Altoona Regional Health System in Altoona, Pennsylvania, in 2013, and Jameson Health System in New Castle, Pennsylvania, in 2016; along with the continued expansion of overseas operations and for-profit business ventures. In October 2016, Susquehanna Health, a four hospital system in north central Pennsylvania, became the first domestic hospital outside Western Pennsylvania to join the UPMC system. Subsequently, UPMC Susquehanna merged with two additional community hospitals in October of the following year. In December 2016, WCA Hospital of Jamestown, New York became the first domestic hospital outside of Pennsylvania in the UPMC system. In September 2017, Pinnacle Health, a seven hospital system in South Central Pennsylvania, merged with UPMC and concurrently merged with Hanover Hospital. Cole Memorial hospital partnered with UPMC Susquehanna and merged with the UPMC system in March, 2018. Somerset Hospital, located in Somerset, Pennsylvania, merged with UPMC on February 1, 2019. On February 3, 2020, Western Maryland Health System became the first Maryland hospital to join the UPMC system. UPMC now operates over 35 academic, community, and specialty hospitals in Pennsylvania and New York, as well as over 600 outpatient sites and doctors' offices, more than 50 facilities for physical, occupational, speech and specialty therapies, and 14 retirement and long-term care site, along with its international and for-profit ventures.\n\nAmong the more renowned individuals who have worked with the University of Pittsburgh's medical center through its history are Jonas Salk who developed the polio vaccine while at the University of Pittsburgh, pediatric psychoanalyst Benjamin Spock, Peter Safar who pioneered CPR and the world's first intensive care training program at the medical center, and surgeon Thomas Starzl who perfected organ transplantation there. Other notable doctors include pathologist Maud Menten who is famous for her contributions to enzyme kinetics, leading orthopedic surgeon and sports medicine expert Freddie Fu, pioneering immunologist Niels Kaj Jerne, noted forensic pathologist and Allegheny County Coroner Cyril Wecht, Vitamin C's discoverer Charles Glen King, pediatrician Jack Paradise, leading head and neck cancer surgeon and otolaryngologist Eugene Nicholas Myers, laparoscopic liver resection pioneer David Geller, breast cancer treatment pioneer Bernard Fisher, and virologists Patrick Moore and Yuan Chang, who co-discovered Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus.\n\nUPMC has provided care to many celebrities, including Pennsylvania two-term governor and 1992 Presidential candidate Robert P. Casey for cancer, 10,000 Maniacs guitarist and founder Robert Buck for liver disease, sportscaster Bob Prince, publisher William Block, MCI CEO William G. McGowan, transplant recipient Stormie Jones and Pittsburgh mayors Bob O'Connor for lymphoma and Richard Caliguiri for amyloidosis. Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger was rushed to UPMC Mercy after his 2006 motorcycle crash and NASCAR driver Dale Earnhardt, Jr., was treated for concussions in 2012., Pittsburgh Steelers running back, James Conner was treated at UPMC Hillman Cancer Center The golfer Arnold Palmer, a native of Latrobe, Pennsylvania, died at UPMC Shadyside on September 25, 2016. In 2017, Manchester United striker Zlatan Ibrahimović traveled to a UPMC facility to have surgery to repair his torn anterior cruciate ligament.\n\nAdministratively headquartered in 29 floors of the U.S. Steel Tower in Pittsburgh's Central Business District, UPMC operates as a complete and integrated health provider system that, although legally separate from the University of Pittsburgh, identifies it as a supported organization in its articles of incorporation and remains closely affiliated with the university and its Schools of the Health Sciences including via the existence of mutual board memberships and subsidization of the university's academic programs. Under a collaborative and coordinated decision-making model, UPMC oversees all clinical activity, including a consolidated physicians' practice plan consisting of university faculty, while the University of Pittsburgh remains the guardian of all academic priorities, particularly faculty-based research. UPMC's 24-member Board of Directors equally splits representation between three groups: the University of Pittsburgh, the community at-large, and individuals historically involved in the governance of its system's hospitals. UPMC is composed of three major operating components: Provider Services, Insurance Services, and International and Commercial Services. The later two divisions include the for-profit health insurance company (UPMC Health Plan) and a for-profit International and Commercial Services Division that seeks to bring health care, management, and technologies to market throughout the world. UPMC is the largest employer in the state of Pennsylvania.\n\nUPMC's Provider Services consists of an array of clinical capabilities that includes hospitals, specialty service lines (including transplantation, behavioral health, cancer care, children's health, women's health, and rehabilitation services among other centers, institutes, and services), contract services (emergency medicine, pharmacy, and laboratory), supporting foundations, captive insurance programs, and approximately 3,600 employed physicians with associated practices. Hospital activity is categorized in four distinct groups: 1. academic hospitals that provide comprehensive clinical services and specialty services and that are the primary academic and teaching centers; 2. community hospitals that provide core clinical services to suburban populations; 3. regional hospitals that provide clinical core services to broader areas of the Western Pennsylvania region; and 4. pre- and post-acute care capabilities that include a network of home health services (UPMC HomeCare) and a network of 15 senior living facilities (UPMC Senior Communities).\n\nUPMC Insurance Services, operating under the umbrella UPMC Health Plan brand, was founded in 1998 and includes various for-profit and non-profit health care financing initiatives. The integrated products of the UPMC Insurance Services Division include UPMC Health Plan (HMO), UPMC Health Network (PPO), Work Partners (workers' compensation and disability for employers), UPMC for Life (Medicare products), UPMC for You (HMO for Medical Assistance beneficiaries), and Community Care Behavioral Health Organization (a non-profit behavioral health PPO for Medical Assistance beneficiaries). These products combine to offer a full range of HMOs, PPOs, and EPOs for group health insurance, Medicare, CHIP, Medical Assistance, behavioral health, employee assistance, and workers' compensation products and services. UPMC also offers consumer-directed health plans like health savings accounts and health reimbursement arrangements. UPMC's provider networks total more than 138 hospitals and more than 16,500 physicians across Pennsylvania and has around three million members making it the largest insurer in Western Pennsylvania. It is also ranked as one of the top commercial health plans in the United States according to \"U.S. News & World Report\". Also included in the Health Services Division are LifeSolutions, an employee assistance program; EBenefits Solutions, a web-based human resources consulting and benefits administration services; and Askesis Development Group, a software development group for behavioral health care.\n\nUPMC's International and Commercial Services Division (ICSD) actively manages UPMC's for-profit companies that seek to commercialize its expertise in health care, advanced technologies, and management skills to global markets. Its stated goal is \"to advance UPMC's mission of positively transforming the way health care is provided in the U.S. and abroad, while revitalizing the economy of western Pennsylvania.\"\n\nUPMC International provides health care consulting and management services around the world in areas in various areas including clinical program development, facility and construction planning, clinical investigation, clinical and administrative staff training, and health information technology, and quality, safety, and Innovation.\n\nUPMC Enterprises is an innovation and commercialization arm of UPMC which has invested over $700million in about 80 different ventures in the past twenty years. It seeks to create products and business arising from translational science and technology solutions by collaborating with entrepreneurs. In the past, it has also forged collaborations with companies such as dbMotion) and strategic and commercial product development partnerships with companies such as IBM and Alcatel-Lucent. UPMC Enterprises portfolio includes such companies as ALung, and Prodiogo Solutions.\n\nUPMC currently operates 40 academic, community, and specialty hospitals with more than 8,000 licensed beds, 600 clinical locations including outpatient sites and doctors' offices, and outpatient sites; over 50 cancer center locations; more than 70 facilities for physical, occupational, speech and specialty therapies; and 20 retirement and long-term care sites.\n\nUPMC Presbyterian Shadyside is UPMC's primary flagship medical entity and represents the core of UPMC's academic, teaching, trauma, specialty and research-related facilities, serving as the system's primary academic hub and Pennsylvania's largest inpatient acute care hospital.\n\nUPMC Presbyterian Shadyside includes UPMC Presbyterian hospital and the physically conjoined UPMC Eye & Ear and UPMC Montefiore hospitals as well as the UPMC Western Psychiatric Hospital that also serves as the University of Pittsburgh's Thomas Detre Hall. These facilities are all located on the western side of the University of Pittsburgh's main campus in the Oakland neighborhood of Pittsburgh. The hospitals are also physically connected to the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine's Scaife Hall, the University of Pittsburgh School of Nursing's Victoria Hall, Falk Clinic, three of the university's biomedical science towers, and the university's Lothrop Hall dormitory, all of which are surrounded by a variety of other academic facilities.\n\nUPMC Presbyterian Shadyside also encompasses the UPMC Shadyside hospital campus which includes the University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute in the UPMC Hillman Cancer Center which are located near the university's Centre Plaza Apartments student housing. The UPMC Shadyside facilities are located in the adjacent neighborhood of Shadyside approximately from the Oakland-based hospitals and are connected by regular shuttle service.\n\nAlso operating under UPMC Presbyterian Shadyside is the UPMC Rooney Sports Complex, located less than from the Oakland-based facilities on Pittsburgh's South Side.\n\nTaken together, the facilities contain over 1,600 beds making it the fourth largest hospital in the United States.\n\nUPMC Presbyterian is the historic and academic center of UPMC and is physically attached to the primary facility of the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Scaife Hall. Located in Oakland, the hospital has 792 beds and includes a Level I Trauma Center. Listed among \"Becker's Hospital Review\" 50 Best Hospitals in America, UPMC Presbyterian's specialties include organ transplantation, cardiology, trauma, gastroenterology, and neurosurgery. The School of Medicine uses UPMC Presbyterian for research and graduate programs.\n\nUPMC Montefiore, part of UPMC Presbyterian, was founded as Montefiore Hospital in 1908 by the Ladies Hospital Aid Society as a hospital for Jewish physicians and patients. Montefiore Hospital affiliated with the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine in 1957 and joined UPMC in 1990. It is the home to the clinical transplantation facilities originally headed by transplant pioneer Thomas Starzl and is physically connected to UPMC Presbyterian and UPMC Eye and Ear by a series of pedestrian bridges.\n\nUPMC Eye & Ear Institute is located in the Oakland neighborhood of Pittsburgh and is conjoined with the medical complex housing UPMC Presbyterian, UPMC Montefiore, the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, and associated medical research towers. UPMC Ear & Eye Institute is one of a few centers in the nation dedicated entirely to the management of problems related to otolaryngology and ophthalmology.\n\nUPMC's nine-story Clinical Laboratory Building (CLB) opened in 2013 and cost $39 million. The CLB is located in the Oakland neighborhood and is situated between Magee- Hospital and UPMC Presbyterian Hospital. Much of UPMC's laboratory testing is performed within the CLB. An extensive pneumatic tube system connects the CLB with UPMC hospitals that are in the Oakland neighborhood (Presbyterian, Magee-, Montefiore) to facilitate the transport of specimens from the hospitals to the laboratories.\n\nUPMC Shadyside is part of UPMC's flagship medical entity and is located in Pittsburgh's Shadyside neighborhood, with 520 beds and nearly 1,000 primary care physicians. Founded in as the Pittsburgh Homeopathic Hospital, it changed its name to that of the neighborhood of Shadyside on May 12, 1938. Shadyside agreed to be bought by UPMC on June 5, 1996. UPMC Shadyside is home to the Hillman Cancer Center, home of the University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute.\n\nThe UPMC Hillman Cancer Center, formerly titled the University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, is a National Cancer Institute designated cancer center and the flagship of the UPMC Cancer Centers network. Founded in 1985 at the University of Pittsburgh, the center is located in the Shadyside neighborhood of Pittsburgh and is connected to UPMC Shadyside via a pedestrian bridge.\n\nUPMC has two major facilities which are contained UPMC Presbyterian Shadyside's sports medicine operations.\n\nThe UPMC Rooney Sports Complex is a multipurpose, multisport training, sports science, and sports medical complex located along the shore of the Monongahela River in Pittsburgh and is unique in that it combines training facilities for the University of Pittsburgh football team and the Pittsburgh Steelers NFL team in one location with an academically based sports science and medicine program. The complex consists of four centers which include the Center for Sports Medicine, Sports Training Center, Indoor Training Center, and the Fitness and Conditioning Center.\n\nThe UPMC Lemieux Sports Complex, opened in 2015 in Cranberry Township, is a contains both a comprehensive outpatient facility for UPMC Sports Medicine and the primary training facilities for the NHL's Pittsburgh Penguins. The outpatient clinic includes orthopedic, primary care, physical therapy, concussion, imaging, and sports performance services. The training facility includes two-full-sized ice rinks, training and locker rooms, video review facility, and executive offices.\n\nUPMC Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh is a specialty hospital of UPMC, specializing in pediatrics and is located two and a half miles from UPMC Presbyterian in the Lawrenceville neighborhood of Pittsburgh. Serving as UPMC's primary pediatrics facility, it was originally located adjacent to UPMC Presbyterian in Oakland. Children's is one of four children's hospitals in the state, and its emergency department is one of only two Level I Pediatric Trauma Centers. More than 500,000 infants, children, and adolescents make trips to the hospital every year. Children's ranks in nine of the 10 pediatric subspecialties in the prestigious \"U.S. News & World Report\" annual Honor Roll of America's Best Children's Hospitals for 2018–2019.\n\nUPMC Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh boasts and has 415 beds, with a 41-bed emergency department and a 36-bed pediatric intensive care unit. A ten-story research center was constructed, with seven out of the ten floors dedicated to pediatric medical research.\n\nUPMC Magee- Hospital is a UPMC specialty hospital that serves as its primary facility for women's health. Opened mainly for women on January 19, 1911, it has offered some services for men since the 1960s. The hospital is located in the Oakland neighborhood of Pittsburgh near UPMC Presbyterian, a location it has been at since its fourth year in 1915. The hospital merged with UPMC in 1999. It currently is equipped with 360 beds, an emergency room and ambulatory facilities on four floors which allows it to offer all possible services under one roof including family medicine physicians, gastroenterologists, dermatologists, rheumatologists, pulmonary specialists, orthopedists, urologists and neurologists. Magee- has a staff of 2,500, of which 1,500 are medically licensed. It also operates a satellite hospital in the city's northern suburbs as part as the UPMC Passavant facility as well as 9 metro area imaging clinics. In 2011 the hospital undertook an expansion of its main facility which was completed in June, 2012. The expansion added six floors, increased the number of beds from 318 to 360 (including 14 additional intensive care rooms), and expanded the surgical and ambulatory facilities. 10,000 births are performed at Magee each year, which accounts for 45 percent of all births in Allegheny County. The hospital is built on the grounds of the home of legendary Pittsburgh political boss Christopher Magee and named in honor of his mother, Elizabeth Steel Magee.\n\nUPMC Western Psychiatric Hospital is one of the nation's largest and most renowned university-affiliated psychiatric hospitals and serves as UPMC's primary psychiatric facility. For more than 60 years, UPMC Western Psychiatric Hospital has been a national leader in providing best practice, research-based care and a broad array of innovative psychiatric and addiction services for children, adolescents, adults, and seniors at every stage of their recovery.\n\nLocated adjacent to UPMC Presbyterian Hospital in Thomas Detre Hall on O'Hara Street in the Oakland section of Pittsburgh, and connected to UPMC Presbyterian Hospital by a tunnel, Western Psychiatric houses the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine's Department of Psychiatry and serves as a main teaching hospital for psychiatry, psychology, and social work trainees. With nearly 400 inpatient psychiatric beds and more than 50 ambulatory programs, it is one of the largest behavioral health care providers affiliated with an academic medical center in the country.\n\nA fatal shooting incident occurred at Western Psychiatric's Thomas Detre Hall on March 8, 2012. 30-year-old John Shick, a Carleton College alumnus and former Duquesne University biology graduate student, entered the building at 1:42p.m. with two semiautomatic handguns and shot six people in the first-floor lobby. Michael Schaab, 25, a Western Psychiatric therapist, was killed. University of Pittsburgh police arrived just after 2 p.m. and engaged Shick in a gun battle, eventually killing him. Seven people, including Pitt police officers, were injured and two, including the shooter, were killed during the incident. Shick was reported to have a history of mental illness and had behaved erratically in the weeks before the shooting. Handwritten messages complaining about his medical treatment and the evils of \"corporate America,\" floor plans and blueprints of Thomas Detre Hall, and supplies for making Molotov cocktails were found in his apartment after the shooting.\n\nIn 2018, UPMC announced it would be constructing 3 additional specialty hospitals in Pittsburgh: a vision hospital set to open adjacent to UPMC Mercy, a 180-bed cancer hospital set to open adjacent to UPMC Shadyside, and a 620-bed heart and transplant specialty hospital set to open adjacent to UPMC Presbyterian.\n\nThe following tertiary hospitals are major full-service, referral hospitals of the UPMC system.\n\nUPMC Mercy is a 495-bed teaching and Level 1 trauma hospital located in the Bluff neighborhood adjacent to downtown and less than two miles (3km) from UPMC Presbyterian in Oakland. Mercy was the first chartered hospital in the city of Pittsburgh and was the first hospital in the world to have been established by the Sisters of Mercy. Mercy has retained its affiliation with the Catholic Church following its merger with UPMC in January 2008.\n\nThe UPMC Mercy South Side Outpatient Center, formerly UPMC South Side hospital, is a urgent care and outpatient facility serving the South Side neighborhood of Pittsburgh. It is one of several UPMC outpatient medical facilities serving various communities throughout the region.\n\nUPMC Altoona, located in Altoona, Pennsylvania, is a 361-bed, non-profit, private community hospital system that contains more than 20 affiliated health care companies and functions as the regional referral center and tertiary hub of UPMC in west central Pennsylvania.\n\nUPMC Hamot is 423-bed, tertiary care teaching medical center with a Level II trauma center located in Erie, Pennsylvania. Hamot offers primary medical care and the full complement of medical specialties. The hospital was founded in 1881 and officially became part of UPMC in 2011.\n\nUPMC Hamot Women's Hospital is a five-story, 165,000 square-foot, 93-bed stand-alone hospital that opened in 2011. The hospital houses obstetrics, neonatology, and gynecology specialities of UPMC Hamot and includes a Level III neonatal intensive care unit. As of October 2013, it also houses the Pediatrics wing of UPMC Hamot.\n\nUPMC Kane, formerly known as Kane Community Hospital, is a 31-bed acute care hospital located in Kane, Pennsylvania, that became an affiliate of UPMC Hamot in November, 2009. UPMC Kane was fully integrated into the UPMC network on April 1, 2017, and functions as a direct subsidiary of UPMC Hamot.\n\nUPMC Passavant is UPMC's tertiary care hospital of Pittsburgh's northern suburbs that consist of two campuses, one in McCandless and another in Cranberry Township with a combined 423 beds. Founded by Lutherans in 1849, Passavant was the first Protestant hospital built in the United States. In 1964, Passavant moved from the City of Pittsburgh to its location in McCandless to serve the communities of northern Allegheny and southern Butler counties. Passavant merged with UPMC in 1997 and in 2002, as part of UPMC's acquisition of St. Francis Medical Center for the conversion of its flagship facility into the new Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, UPMC converted St. Francis' hospital in Cranberry into a satellite campus of UPMC Passavant. In 2010, a seven-story 188,000 square foot patient pavilion was opened on the McCandless campus bringing total beds there to 399.\n\nUPMC Pinnacle Harrisburg is a 627-bed urban, teaching, community hospital in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, serving as the primary referral hospital for the UPMC Pinnacle system which comprises eight hospitals and additional clinics serving south central and southeastern Pennsylvania.\n\nUPMC Susquehanna Williamsport is a 224-bed tertiary hospital in Williamsport, Pennsylvania, serving as the primary referral hospital of the six hospital UPMC Susquehanna system serving north central Pennsylvania.\n\nUPMC operates the following acute care community hospitals dedicated to specific missions within their particular communities.\n\nInternationally, UPMC operates a transplant hospital in Italy (ISMETT), two hospitals and two cancer centers in Ireland, a cancer center in Rome and previously helped to establish an emergency medical system in Qatar. UPMC also implemented information technology solutions and assisting with the development of cancer centers in the United Kingdom, is providing consultation services and developing a network of co-managed hospitals in China, and, with the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, implemented a U.S.-style resident training program in Japan. UPMC is also a partner with the University of Pittsburgh and the governments of Italy and the region of Sicily in Fondazione Ri.Med, which is building a €210million Biomedical Research and Biotechnology Center in Carini near Palermo. In June 2019, UPMC signed a deal with the Wanda Group to develop and operate five private hospitals in major Chinese cities. The first hospital, the Chengdu Wanda-UPMC International Hospital, is expected to open in 2022.\n\nThe Mediterranean Institute for Transplantation and Advanced Specialized Therapies (Istituto Mediterraneo per i Trapianti e Terapie ad Alta Specializzazione, or ISMETT) is located in Palermo, Italy, and serves the region of Sicily and the Mediterranean as a hospital designed exclusively for transplants and treatment of end-stage organ failure. ISMETT is a joint public-private partnership between the Region of Sicily, through Civico and Cervello hospitals in Palermo, and UPMC, which manages and operates the facility. It is also a center for research in regenerative medicine and various international collaborations including the University of Pittsburgh's and UPMC's McGowan Institute for Regenerative Medicine.\n\nUPMC Kildare Hospital is a 39-bed private hospital located in County Kildare, Ireland. UPMC acquired the hospital in November 2019 in partnership with the Institute of Eye Surgery.\n\nUPMC Whitfield is an 80-bed private hospital located in Waterford, Ireland. UPMC, which had operated a cancer center at the hospital since 2006, acquired the hospital on May 24, 2018.\n\nUPMC Salvator Mundi International Hospital 75-bed private hospital in Rome, Italy, that is jointly owned by UPMC and Rome International Hospital Management Srl. UPMC owns a 50% stake in the hospital and leads its medical operations including having responsibility for selecting its medical director and chief operating officer.\n\nFormer UPMC hospitals include UPMC Beacon Hospital in Dublin, Ireland (2009 to 2014) which was acquired by Irish businessman Denis O'Brien; UPMC Braddock in Braddock, Pennsylvania (1996 to 2010) which was closed; UPMC South Side hospital in Pittsburgh (1996 to 2009) which was merged with UPMC Mercy and converted into UPMC Mercy South Side Outpatient Center; UPMC Lee Regional in Johnstown, Pennsylvania (1998 to 2005) which was sold to Conemaugh Health System; and UPMC Beaver Valley in Aliquippa, Pennsylvania (1996 to 2001) which was transferred back to its community board and subsequently closed. UPMC Pinnacle Lancaster, formerly St. Joseph's hospital in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, closed on February 28, 2019, and its services were consolidated into UPMC Pinnacle Lititz.\n\nUPMC has committed to several community projects, most notably pledging $100million to the Pittsburgh Promise, a scholarship program to help students graduating from the Pittsburgh Public Schools pursue post-secondary education, and $525million for construction of a new Children's Hospital. In fiscal year 2012, UPMC donated a combined $622million in charitable community benefits. This included $96million in community health programs and charitable donations to help stage more than 3,000 community health improvement programs, $288million in support for research and education, and $238million for charity care and unreimbursed health care, not including an additional $146million to cover Medicare reimbursement shortfalls. Despite its 60% market share, UPMC accounted for 78% of the care in Allegheny County's low income communities and 88% of the care for children living in poverty. UPMC contributed $887million, or more than 15 percent of its net patient revenue, to community services in Fiscal Year 2013, and provides more care to the most underserved areas than any other health care institution in the region.\n\nUPMC has been criticized for excessive profits, monopolistic practices, excessive advertising budgets, and focusing on overseas operations at the expense of domestic ones. In addition, various controversies have received significant local and national attention in recent years.\n\nIn 2008, the administration and reporting of UPMC's living donor liver transplantation program received national attention when internal studies, spearheaded by transplant pioneer Thomas Starzl, questioned the safety of the procedure and ultimately resulted in the forced resignation of liver transplant program head, Amadeo Marcos. Another controversy arose in May 2011 for UPMC's live-donor kidney transplant program when a kidney infected with hepatitis C was transplanted into a non-infected person. The incident led UPMC to voluntarily shut down its kidney transplant program for two months, and resulted in the suspension of a nurse and demotion of a surgeon. Federal reviewers with United Network for Organ Sharing concluded human error at fault for the oversight and corrective plans that included multiple redundancies were instituted with oversight from the Pennsylvania Department of Health. \nBecause of the botched living donor kidney transplant at UPMC, the federal Organ Procurement Transplant Network (OPTN) put UPMC's transplant program on probation, a rarely used form of discipline handed down for some of the most serious transplant errors.\nThe OPTN said it meted out the discipline not only because of the kidney transplant error, but because UPMC's transplant program was found to have problems in its communication and documentation procedures before.\n\nIn April 2009, rival West Penn Allegheny Health System filed an antitrust lawsuit against the UPMC and health insurer Highmark, claiming a conspiracy to create a monopoly. The lawsuit was later dismissed with prejudice. West Penn Allegheny filed an appeal of this judgment. Upon appeal, the case was unanimously reinstated by the US Third Circuit Court of Appeals.\n\nIn October 2009, UPMC's administration decision to close UPMC Braddock hospital resulted in multiple protest and lawsuits by community groups who disputed UPMC's claims that the hospital was losing money and was underutilized. The facility, now demolished in preparation for redevelopment, closed in January 2010.\n\nIn April 2013, UPMC has been criticized for paying low wages, and using unfair labor practices to thwart efforts by employees to unionize, as alleged in the Service Employees International Union's complaint to the National Labor Relations Board.\n\nIn March 2013, the City of Pittsburgh filed a lawsuit in Federal court challenging the tax exempt status of UPMC as a public charity, in an effort to make UPMC to pay back taxes. The city alleged that UPMC has abused its status to avoid paying property taxes. The city dropped its lawsuit in 2014.\n\nIn February 2019, the Pennsylvania Attorney General submitted legal actions against UPMC to enforce requirements for open health care access based on the non-profit status of UPMC. These actions stem from a long-standing dispute between Highmark Health and UPMC, the largest two health-care providers in Western PA. In 2011, Highmark entered a partnership with West Penn Hospital System (now Allegheny Health Network). Because of this competitive threat, UPMC declared they would not accept Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield Insurance. In order to protect public access to health care while agreements between the two systems unwound, both UPMC and Highmark Health accepted a state-brokered consent decree. With the consent decree expiring in 2019, the Pennsylvania Attorney General attempted to negotiate continued access to care with both companies. Highmark indicated that it would accept the terms while UPMC did not. It is the failure to accept the proposal that the PA Attorney General cited as leading to the legal actions of February 2019. UPMC then counter sued the Attorney General in federal court claiming his actions were \"anti-competitive\" and violate federal regulations and due process rights, while accusing him of \"intervening in a high-profile matter solely to advance his own political goals.\" In June 2019, UPMC and Highmark reached a deal for a 10-year contract to maintain access across both health systems and all lawsuits that had been brought by the Attorney General, UPMC, and Highmark were subsequently dropped.\n\nThe television medical dramas \"Heartland\" (2007) and \"Three Rivers\" (2009) were largely based on UPMC and the University of Pittsburgh's Thomas E. Starzl Transplantation Institute. In both cases the hospitals are fictionalized, but in the latter series UPMC is also specifically referred to as another Pittsburgh-area hospital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2156974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2156974", "title": "Lydeard St Lawrence", "text": "Lydeard St Lawrence\n\nLydeard St Lawrence or St Lawrence Lydiard is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated north west of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 506. The parish includes the hamlets of Westowe, Hoccombe and Pyleigh, with its 16th century manor house.\n\nThe Lydeard part of the name is believed to be a corruption of \"Lidegaard\" from the Celtic \"garth\" meaning \"ridge\" and Old English \"led\" meaning \"grey\". The second part of the village name is taken from the dedication of the church.\n\nFrom Saxon times the manor was owned by the Bishop of Winchester as part of their Taunton Deane estate. After the Norman Conquest it was granted to Wilward by William the conqueror and known as Pylegh. The parish of Lydeard St Lawrence was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nIn the 18th century the manor was acquired by the Hancock family.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe parish Church of St Lawrence dates from 1350 and has been designated as a Grade I listed building. It was granted to Taunton Priory by Simon de Florey in the late 12th century with the patronage later being held by the Portman family during the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\n\nThomas Benet, clerk, suffered the cutting down & removal of trees from his land in Lydeyerde St Laurence, in 1396.\n"}
{"id": "2156988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2156988", "title": "North Curry", "text": "North Curry\n\nNorth Curry is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated east of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The parish, which includes Knapp and Lower Knapp has a population of 1,640.\n\nNorth Curry sits on a ridge of land, above sea level. North Curry is a fairly large village, but is quietly tucked away on the southwestern side of the Somerset Levels, well away from the main highways. The buildings, history, and village life make North Curry a surprising gem amongst the winding, hedgerow-bordered country lanes that tie it to surrounding villages. North Curry Meadow () is a 1.3 hectare (3.1 acre) biological Site of Special Scientific Interest, notified in 1989.\n\nThe parish was part of the North Curry Hundred. North Curry was settled in Saxon times and was a royal manor in the 11th century. Around 1194, Richard the Lionheart (Richard I of England) deeded North Curry over to the Bishop of Wells, along with other possessions, in exchange for cash to pay off his ransom to the Austrian Emperor, Henry VI. North Curry parish traditionally included the hamlets of Helland, Knapp, Lillesdon, Moredon, Newport and Wrantage. In 1231 Henry III granted a licence for the Bishop of Bath and Wells to deforest the manor of North Curry and enclose the lands as parks.\n\nReclamation of the surrounding moors before 1311 allowed the village to expand. A market village since the 13th century, North Curry's sources of wealth have included hunting, fishing, and wool trade, with access to other markets via the nearby River Tone. Evidence of the prosperity of the village can be seen in the exemplary architecture, including 68 listed buildings.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nNorth Curry is in an electoral ward called 'North Curry and Stoke St. Gregory'. Whilst \"North Curry\" is the most populous area the ward stretches through Stoke St. Gregory to Burrowbridge. The total ward population taken at the 2011 Census is 3,226.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nNorth Curry Parish Church, dedicated to Saints Peter and Paul, is nicknamed ‘The Cathedral of the Moors’. Parts of the large, airy church date to the 14th century, and the church was erected on the site of an earlier church. Episcopal records in Wells mention a church in North Curry as early as 1199. The church has a good view of the Levels and moors, with benches placed for walkers and other visitors to enjoy the view from the slightly higher grounds of the churchyard. \n\nTo assist visitors tracing their ancestry to North Curry, the church has posted a map of the graves in the cemetery. In August 2007, North Curry Church was incorporated into the Athelney benefice of the Church of England. The vicar of the Athelney benefice covers the parishes of Burrowbridge, Lyng, North Curry, and Stoke St Gregory.\n\nNorth Curry has an active history society, village hall, playing fields, primary school, doctor's surgery, Women's Institute, cricket club, gardening club, musical and theatrical groups, and a luncheon club. In 2006, villagers opened a coffee shop, staffed by 70 volunteers, in a converted barn. The coffee shop offers artwork and crafts by local artists, along with hot food, homemade cakes, and good cheer. Proceeds from the coffee shop go to charity. The coffee shop is part of the refurbished Town Farm Barn, in the loft of which are housed the North Curry Archives. Apart from artefacts from the past, the records of people and places going back centuries are being sourced daily for those seeking Family Tree Information. In 2009 the Parish Council opened a new Sports Field in White Street with cricket and football pitches, a pavilion and community woodland - all maintained by a devoted crew of volunteers.\n\nAdmiral Sir Charles Holcombe Dare KCMG CB MVO was born in the village and his family were keen supporters of all aspects of village life.\n"}
{"id": "2156989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2156989", "title": "New Brunswick Route 17", "text": "New Brunswick Route 17\n\nRoute 17 is long and runs from the Canada–US border in Saint-Leonard to Route 11 in Glencoe near Campbellton. Saint-Quentin and Kedgwick are other towns along the route. With the exception of those towns, the highway runs almost entirely through sparsely populated forest land. It is the only highway connecting northwestern New Brunswick with the province's north shore.\n\nOver several decades, Route 17 has received several upgrades, and new sections of road built, to improve safety. These upgrades have been designed to meet present-day standards, including flatter grades, creation of more passing lanes, upgrades to guard rail requirements and increased shoulder widths. Some examples of these, have been the new alignments of the highway north of Saint-Leonard, or the bypassing of Dawsonville, west of Campbellton.\n\nRoute 17's northern terminus is at a T intersection with Route 11 in Glencoe (Route 17 is a continuation of the Route 11 direct right of way.) It runs southwesterly from there, passing through the communities of Glen Levit, and Squaw Cap. Between the two communities, is a new section of highway, opened in the early 2000s bypassing Dawsonville, and adhering to modern highway standards.\n\nAfter roughly 19 kilometres, Route 17 crosses the Upsalquitch River, and passes through Robinsonville, before climbing Upsalquitch Hill. With an 11% grade, it is the steepest arterial highway grade in the province.\n\nAtop of the hill, the road passes through Glenwood. Southwest of Glenwood, the highway descends and then climbs back up Adams Gulch, while passing through the community of the same name. After running west in the wilderness for almost 10 kilometres, Route 17 passes through Menneval, then Saint-Jean-Baptiste, before heading through Kedgwick, where there is a sharp 90 degree turn. Once past Kedgwick, Route 17 turns south, due for the town of Saint-Quentin.\n\nAfter Saint-Quentin, the highway heads in a southwesterly manner once more and heads through wilderness, with only J.D. Irving's Sawmill in Veneer, in that stretch of woods. Approximately 50 kilometres later, Route 17 hits civilization in Saint-Leonard-Parent, nearing its southern terminus. Roughly 10 kilometres to the southwest, the highway reaches the town of Saint-Leonard. Passing under the Trans-Canada Highway, Route 17 continues to the Canada–United States border, where it reaches it southern terminus.\n\nThe speed limit varies throughout the route, from 50 km/h in Kedgwick and Saint-Quentin, to 90 km/h, on many rural and uninhabited stretches.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2156992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2156992", "title": "Ludwigia alternifolia", "text": "Ludwigia alternifolia\n\nLudwigia alternifolia, commonly known as bushy seedbox and rattlebox, is a herbaceous perennial plant of the family Onagraceae.\n\nIts habitat includes wet, swampy localities.\n\n"}
{"id": "2156994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2156994", "title": "Teach Me Tonight", "text": "Teach Me Tonight\n\n\"Teach Me Tonight\" is a popular song that has become a jazz standard. The music was written by Gene De Paul, the lyrics by Sammy Cahn. The song was published in 1953.\n\nFive versions charted in 1954 and 1955: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2156996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2156996", "title": "High Seat (Lake District)", "text": "High Seat (Lake District)\n\nHigh Seat is a fell in the centre of the English Lake District. Despite being below 2,000 ft it is the highest point for about 5 miles in any direction; a consequence of the curious fact that the centre of the district is lower than the surrounding parts.\n\nThe main watershed of the Central Fells runs north-south, with Bleaberry Fell forming the northern end of the ridge. High Seat is the next fell to the south, before the land falls to High Tove.\n\nHigh Seat sends out the spur of Dodd to the north west, separated from the body of the fell by Ashness Gill — a feeder of Watendlath Beck. Oddly, by the time the Gill reaches the famed viewpoint of Ashness Bridge, it has actually become Barrow Beck. The western flank here is clad in broadleaved woodland, but further south along Watendlath Beck this gives way to rock. Reecastle Crag being the principal face.\n\nThe southern boundary of the fell is formed by Raise Gill on the western side of the ridge and Shoulthwaite Gill in the east. To say that they drain The Peewits — the hideous bog on the ridge to High Tove — would be untrue, but they are fed by it. Shoulthwaite Gill does not head due east for Thirlmere as might be expected, but turns due north to form the eastern boundary. It is cut off from the reservoir by the lower parallel ridge of Raven Crag and High Rigg and instead makes a beeline for the River Greta. Mere Gill, one of its many tributaries forms the north eastern edge of High Seat. This flows from a point on the ridge to Bleaberry Fell which bears the name of Threefooted Brandreth: (a brandreth being the word for a three-legged stand in an oven on which a griddle was placed when cakes etc. were baked.)\n\nBelow Threefooted Brandreth on the eastern slope, sitting on a shallow saddle above Mere Ghyll is the Litt's Memorial. On 9 March 1880 John Litt was following the Blencathra Foxhounds when he inexplicably fell behind and failed to return. A search party found his body at that place the following day. As recorded in the \"English Lakes Visitor and Keswick Guardian\" for March 1880:\n\nMan found dead on the mountains – Early on Wednesday morning it was reported that two men, named John Litt and John Vickers, who had been following the Blencathra hounds the previous day had not returned. Litt had been last seen on the bog about 200 yards west of Raven Crag where he had been, with other, resting and watching the hounds in the valley below. … Although he seemed somewhat fatigued he did not complain, and the hunters, absorbed in the chase did not look behind. When his absence from home was known a number of willing volunteers went to search for him. … Mr David Powley at once proceeded to Mr Oliver, the shepherd on Castlerigg Fell, who probably was the last person in Litt’s company, and the two immediately struck for the point where Mr Oliver parted from the deceased. They took a dog with them and it found the body not fifteen yards from the place they were making to. The searchers were: Messrs C. C. Thompson, Thos. Hodgson (Station Road), J. W. Grisdale, Thos. Harrison, David Powley, Joseph Bouch, Geo. Atkinson, Isaac Wren, Joseph Bristo, Benjamin Hodgson, A. G. Pettit, and Wm. Wood.\nThe memorial consists of two upright stones, one bearing a round plate inscribed 'In memory of J Litt who died March 9, 1880'. The second stone bears a faint inscription.\n\nThe summit is covered by peat, overlying the plagioclase-phyric andesite lavas of the Birker Fell Formation. There is a small bed of volcaniclastic sandstone to the south while the northern slopes are predominantly garnet-bearing porphyritic andesite.\n\nThe upper part of the fell, in excess of a mile square, is soft, peaty and drab. The exception is the ridge itself, which is considerably wetter. A fence runs along the ridge, a useful guide in mist and occasionally necessary for bog bouncing. The summit is set on a small rock platform with an Ordnance Survey column. A rocky knoll (called Man) stands on the other side of the fence. The views are extensive due to the central location and a lack of higher neighbours. The Helvellyn range is seen end to end, together with a panorama of high fells on the other side of the ridge from Crinkle Crags in the south to Blencathra in the north.\n\nBy parking near Ashness Bridge on the road to Watendlath, access to the western side of the ridge can be gained at high level. Ashness Gill can be followed upwards through increasingly wet country until a final bee-line is made for the summit. From further up the road at the base of Reecastle Crag a more direct line is possible, or the climb can be made from Watendlath itself, first ascending High Tove via the zig-zags. The direct ascent noted by Wainwright from the hamlet appears to have access problems.\n\nEastern approaches begin on the A591 at Rough How Bridge, making a start along the secluded valley of Shoulthwaite before heading up the fellside in the vicinity of Mere Gill.\n\n"}
{"id": "2156999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2156999", "title": "Norton Fitzwarren", "text": "Norton Fitzwarren\n\nNorton Fitzwarren is a village, electoral ward, and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated north west of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 3,046.\n\nThe village is on the southern slope of Norton Camp, a large hillfort that shows evidence of occupation from neolithic times, through the Bronze Age, to the Roman occupation of Britain.\n\nThe Church of All Saints dates from the late 13th and early 14th century. It has been designated as a Grade II* listed building.\n\nThe parish of Norton Fitzwarren was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nIt was the location of a 300-person Prisoner of War camp during World War II, initially housing Italian prisoners from the Western Desert Campaign, and later German prisoners after the Battle of Normandy. POW Camp Number 665 - 'Cross Keys Camp', Norton Fitzwarren.\n\nJust north of the village is Norton Manor Camp, home of 40 Commando, Royal Marines. For many years it was the base of Junior Leaders Battalion, Royal Army Service Corps (until 1965 when RASC was disbanded) which became Junior Leaders Regiment, Royal Corps of Transport. From the early 1960s to the late 1970s, it took boys from age 15 yrs to age 17½ years and trained them to be army transport drivers.\n\nNorton Fitzwarren is located on the confluence of many fast flowing local water flows, and from the 1700s onwards became the base for many water-powered weaving mills, and after the riots in London, also many Silk Mills, which gave part of the area its name.\n\nFor many years Norton Fitzwarren was the site of the main factory of the Taunton Cider Company producing cider brands such as Blackthorn Cider. Production was moved to Shepton Mallet after Matthew Clark plc, the UK division of Constellation Brands, bought Taunton Cider in 1995.\n\nNorton Fitzwarren was the site of a boat lift on the now disused section of the Grand Western Canal from 1839 to 1867.\n\nNorton Fitzwarren is on the former Bristol and Exeter Railway mainline, which was operated and then taken over by the GWR in 1890. The station became an important junction station, with branch lines to and diverging at this point. Resultantly, the station had two island platforms creating four platforms. There were also extensive freight handling facilities, as the station was located west of the Fairwater Yard, a large regional freight yard located south of the mainline. During World War II, the United States Army took over Norton Manor Camp located immediately northwest of the station, and equipped it with extensive railway sidings, all connected to the station. The first major railway accident occurred on 10 November 1890, and the second on 4 November 1940, which killed 13 Royal Navy personnel who were working at the camp. In 2018 a plaque honouring the victims of both crashes was unveiled in the village.\n\nNorton Fitzwarren station closed in 1966, the same year that the British Army supply depot closed. Taunton Cider took over the former goods yard to the north of the site, but this also closed in the early 1990s, and has been redeveloped as housing. Most of the former Minehead branch is now operated by the West Somerset Railway as a heritage railway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157004", "title": "Nynehead", "text": "Nynehead\n\nNynehead is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated on the River Tone, south-west of Taunton and north-west of Wellington, in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 415.\n\nThe first documentary evidence comes from 737 when the manor was granted to the Bishop of Winchester. In 890 the land was granted to a Wulfhere Gidding. The parish of Nynehead was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nThe village was the site of a boat lift on the Grand Western Canal, and the remains of two aqueducts are still standing.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Wellington Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nNynehead Court dates from the late 14th century with major additions in 1675 and the 18th century. The Nynehead Hollow is another prominent landmark in the village. It is believed that the \"Hollow\" was dug out by the Sandford family in the hope of making Nynehead Court quicker to get to from the servant houses which were situated in east Nynehead.\n\nThe church, dedicated to All Saints, is a small structure built of mostly of local red Permo-Triassic rock, probably on the site of an earlier church, with a square tower containing five bells. The interior of the church contains some monuments to the Sandford family of Nynehead Court.\n\nThe best known member of the Sandford family is probably the Reverend John Sandford, who was vicar of Nynehead from 1811 to 1834. From 1819 he was largely an absentee clergyman living in Italy, where he made a controversial marriage to Elizabeth Georgiana Morgan, who had been divorced in scandalous circumstances by her first husband, Valentine Lawless, 2nd Baron Cloncurry, after admitting to adultery with a neighbour. They had one daughter, Anna, Lady Methuen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157009", "title": "Western Australian Cricket Association", "text": "Western Australian Cricket Association\n\nThe Western Australian Cricket Association (known as the WACA) is the governing body for cricket in Western Australia.\n\nThe WACA was formed on 5 November 1885. In 1893 the association opened the WACA Ground.\n\nThe WACA is responsible for managing Western Australia's first-class cricket team, the Western Warriors, as well as the Western Fury in the Women's National Cricket League (WNCL) and Women's T20 (WT20).\n\nIn the Big Bash League, the WACA is represented by the Perth Scorchers.\n\nThe WACA is responsible for administering Western Australian Grade Cricket.\n\nThe Association also hosts a popular annual cricket festival at Lilac Hill in Guildford between a Chairman's XI and the visiting International XI team. The first match in 1990 drew a crowd of 12,000 to watch the hosts play the England XI. The last of these was held in 2009 due to the difficulty in scheduling matches of this type in international team tours.\n\nThe current President of the WACA is former Governor of Western Australia, the Honourable Dr Ken Michael AC.\n\nThe current Chief Executive Officer is Christina Matthews.\n\n\nThe WACA is affiliated with Cricket Australia.\n"}
{"id": "2157012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157012", "title": "Oake", "text": "Oake\n\nOake is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated west of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 765.\n\nThe parish includes the hamlet of Hillfarrance on Hillfarrance Brook a tributary of the River Tone, and the villages of Hillcommon and Heathfield.\n\nThe Sustrans cycle route 3 from Bristol to Padstow passes through the village, as does the route of the Grand Western Canal.\n\nThe village was named \"Acon\" in 897 based on the early presence of Oak trees. From Saxon times it formed part of the manor of Taunton Deane which belonged to the Bishop of Winchester.\n\nThe parishes of Heathfield and Hillfarrance were part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Wellington Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nBetween Oake and Bradford-on-Tone is Lang's Farm, a biological Site of Special Scientific Interest which provides an example of unimproved, herb-rich neutral grassland of a type now rare in Britain.\n\nThe Church of the Holy Cross in Hillfarrance dates from the 14th century, with the tower being added in 1540, and has been designated by English Heritage as a Grade II* listed building.\n\nIn Oake village the Church of St Bartholomew dates from the 13th century, whereas the Church of St John the Baptist in Heathfield retains its 13th century tower but the rest of the church was largely rebuilt in 1841.\n\nHillcommon had a Methodist chapel which was built in 1846 but fell into disuse. It has now been converted into residential accommodation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157018", "title": "Oliver Leese", "text": "Oliver Leese\n\nLieutenant General Sir Oliver William Hargreaves Leese, 3rd Baronet, (27 October 1894 – 22 January 1978) was a senior British Army officer who saw distinguished active service during both the world wars. He is most notable during the Second World War for commanding XXX Corps in North Africa and Sicily, serving under General Sir Bernard Montgomery, before going on to command the Eighth Army in the Italian Campaign throughout most of 1944.\n\nOliver William Hargreaves Leese was born on 27 October 1894 at St. Ermin's, Westminster, London, the first of four children of William Hargreaves Leese (later 2nd Baronet), a barrister, and Violet Mary Sandeman. He was educated at Ludgrove and Eton. In 1909, while at Eton, he joined the Officers' Training Corps (OTC).\n\nEarly in the First World War, he joined the British Army and was gazetted in the Special Reserve of Officers as a second lieutenant into the Coldstream Guards on 15 September 1914, later gazetted in the Land Forces on 15 May 1915. Despite receiving only five weeks of training, Leese was sent to France in mid-October 1914 and was posted to the 3rd Battalion, Coldstream Guards, part of the 4th (Guards) Brigade of the 2nd Division, near Ypres, Belgium. However, on 20 October, a week before Leese's 20th birthday, he was wounded, the first of three he was to receive during the war, after being hit in the back by shrapnel.\n\nHe returned to England for treatment, and in 1915 returned to France, serving this time with the 2nd Battalion, Coldstream Guards, also part of the 4th Brigade, 2nd Division, where he experienced trench warfare throughout most of the year, in July gaining a second wound, receiving multiple wounds to the face, but he remained on duty. In September his battalion, now transferred to the 1st Guards Brigade of the newly created Guards Division, fought in the Battle of Loos and, on 3 October, Leese was promoted to lieutenant. The next few months were spent holding the trenches, with no major engagements taking place.\n\nLeese was wounded for the third time during the Somme offensive in September 1916, an action in which he was mentioned in despatches and awarded the Distinguished Service Order (DSO). The citation to his DSO, which was gazetted in November 1916, read:\n\nAfter the war, he remained in the British Army, being promoted captain in 1921, and attending the Staff College, Camberley from 1927 to 1928. Among his many fellow students in the junior division there were a large number of future general officers, such as Robert Bridgeman, Eric Hayes, Angus Collier, Evelyn Barker, Philip Christison, Ronald Penney, Stephen Irwin, Eric Dorman-Smith, Reginald Savory, William Bishop, John Whiteley, George Surtees, Wilfred Lloyd, Stanley Kirby, John Hawkesworth, Charles Norman, Colin Jardine, Edmund Beard, Clement West, Christopher Woolner, Alfred Curtis, Oliver Edgcumbe and Eric Nares. Returning briefly to his battalion after graduation, in November 1929 he was appointed as brigade major to the 1st Infantry Brigade (Guards) and was formally promoted to major a few days later. He was promoted to brevet lieutenant colonel in July 1933.\n\nOn 18 January 1933 Leese married a granddaughter of Sir Baldwyn Leighton, 8th Baronet, Margaret Alice (died 1964), daughter of Cuthbert Leighton (recte Leicester-Warren), DL, JP, (1877–1954), of Tabley House, Knutsford, by Hilda Margaret Davenport; they had no children. Lady Leese's brother was the last of the line to own the Tabley estate which he left on his death in 1975 to the National Trust.\n\nFrom 1932 to 1938 Leese held a number of staff appointments and was promoted to lieutenant colonel in December 1936, brevet colonel in September 1938 and colonel in October 1938. In September 1938 he was posted to India to be a GSO1 instructor at the Staff College, Quetta. He had succeeded to the baronetcy on his father's death on 17 January 1937.\n\nLeese returned to England from India in March 1940, six months after the outbreak of the Second World War. It had been planned for him to command a brigade in Norway but with the German Army's invasion of Western Europe in May, he was sent to join General Lord Gort's headquarters as Deputy Chief of Staff of the British Expeditionary Force (BEF). He evacuated from Dunkirk with Gort on 31 May.\n\nOn his return to the United Kingdom Leese was ordered to form and train a large brigade group, the 29th Infantry Brigade. In December 1940 he was appointed acting major general and given command of the West Sussex County Division, which included the 29th Brigade. A month later he was moved to become General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 15th (Scottish) Infantry Division, then stationed in East Anglia. His rank was upgraded to temporary major general in November and was made substantive in December. In June 1941 he became GOC of the newly created Guards Armoured Division during its formation and training. \"A forceful personality, Leese proved extremely energetic in getting what he wanted from the War Office and then drove his men hard to create a thoroughly well organised division within a relatively short time\".\n\nIn September 1942 he was sent at the request of the British Eighth Army commander, Lieutenant General Bernard Montgomery, to North Africa to assume command, as an acting lieutenant general, of the Eighth Army's XXX Corps. Montgomery had formed a good opinion of Leese when he had instructed him at the Staff College, Camberley in 1927 and 1928 and had also been impressed by his work at GHQ in France. Leese commanded XXX Corps for the rest of the campaign which ended with the Axis surrender in May 1943 in Tunisia. He was mentioned in despatches for his services in North Africa. XXX Corps then took part in the Allied invasion of Sicily in July 1943 before returning to the United Kingdom after the Sicily campaign, which ended in August, to prepare for the planned invasion of Northwest Europe, scheduled for the spring of 1944. Leese was promoted to temporary lieutenant general in September.\n\nOn 24 December 1943, however, Leese received a telegram ordering him to Italy to succeed Montgomery as Eighth Army commander as Montgomery was to return to the United Kingdom in January 1944 to prepare for the Allied invasion of Normandy. Leese commanded the Eighth Army at the fourth and final battle of Monte Cassino in May 1944 (when the bulk of the Eighth Army was switched in secret from the Adriatic coast to Cassino to strike a joint blow with the U.S. Fifth Army under Lieutenant General Mark W. Clark, who Leese disliked working alongside) and for \"Operation Olive\" on the Gothic Line later in 1944. His rank of lieutenant general was made permanent in July 1944.\n\nIn September 1944 he was appointed to succeed George Giffard as the Commander-in-Chief (C-in-C) of Eleventh Army Group and assumed command in November, by which time the Army Group had been renamed Allied Land Forces, South-East Asia (ALFSEA). Leese was replaced as commander of the British Eighth Army by Lieutenant General Sir Richard McCreery. Leese viewed the existing command structure in South-East Asia as inefficient, and proceeded to appoint former members of his Eighth Army staff. The methods of the two staffs differed and the newcomers were resented. As Slim expressed it in his memoirs, \"His staff, which he brought with him... had a good deal of desert sand in its shoes, and was rather inclined to thrust Eighth Army down our throats.\" Leese commanded three groups: the Northern Combat Area Command under his American subordinate, Lieutenant General Dan Sultan, the Fourteenth Army under Lieutenant General Sir William Slim in central Burma and further south in the Arakan, Indian XV Corps under Lieutenant General Philip Christison, his Staff College classmate. Until the end of the year, he fought a successful campaign which led to the capture of Rangoon by an amphibious landing (Operation Dracula) in early May 1945.\n\nSlim had turned the Fourteenth Army into an effective military force and had commanded a highly successful campaign from the relief of Imphal to the recapture of Rangoon and the destruction of the Japanese forces in Burma. Leese believed that Slim was very tired (he had asked for leave once Rangoon had been taken) and proposed to the Supreme Commander South East Asia, Louis Mountbatten and the Chief of the Imperial General Staff (CIGS), Field Marshal Sir Alan Brooke, that he should be replaced by Philip Christison, who had experience in amphibious warfare and so would be well suited to leading the army in the planned seaborne landings in Malaya, leaving Slim to take over the new Twelfth Army, with the less demanding task of mopping up in Burma. Leese misread the reactions of Brooke and Mountbatten and having then met Slim to discuss the proposals, came away believing Slim had agreed to them. In fact, Slim reacted by telling his staff he had been sacked and wrote to Leese and General Sir Claude Auchinleck, the Commander-in-Chief India, to say he would refuse the new post and resign from the army in protest. Once the news circulated within the Fourteenth Army, mutinies and mass resignations of officers were threatened. Leese was obliged to reinstate Slim when Mountbatten refused to support him, even though he had authorised the original proposals. Mountbatten subsequently approached Alan Brooke (who had always doubted Leese's suitability for the role) and they agreed that Leese should be removed. He was succeeded by Slim.\n\nNone of the protagonists in the Slim affair show up well in retrospect. Richard Mead in \"Churchill's Lions\" suggests that Leese was naive, Slim petulant and Mountbatten devious. Leese's career suffered and he returned to the United Kingdom to be GOC-in-C Eastern Command, a significant downward move, having been one of only three army group commanders in the British Army. His promotion to full general is believed to have been blocked by Mountbatten and he retired from the army in January 1947. Leese became a noted horticulturist, writing books on cacti and keeping a well noted garden at his house, Lower Hall in Worfield, Shropshire. Although a keen cricketer, he had only modest success as a batsman in the 1914 Eton XI and was relegated to 12th man for that year's Eton v Harrow match but was President of the Marylebone Cricket Club in 1965. He served as High Sheriff of Shropshire in 1958. Leese was a guest on the April 10, 1960, \"What's My Line?\" game show. Following amputation of his right leg in 1973, Leese moved into Wales into a house called Dolwen at Llanrhaeadr-ym-Mochnant, near Oswestry. He died there after a heart attack on 22 January 1978, aged 83 and was buried at Worfield parish church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157019", "title": "Orchard Portman", "text": "Orchard Portman\n\nOrchard Portman is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated south of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 150.\n\nThe parish includes the hamlet of Thurlbear and the nearby Thurlbear Wood and Quarrylands Site of Special Scientific Interest. St Thomas' church in Thurlbear is home to the heaviest complete set (cast together at the same time) of four church bells in the world.\n\nThe estate was known as \"Orceard\" and was given by King Æthelwulf of Wessex to Taunton's minster church in 854.\n\nThe parish of Thurlbear was part of the North Curry Hundred, while Orchard Portman was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nBy 1135 the manor had passed to Elfric de Orchard and his descendants one of whom, Christina de Orchard, married Walter Portman. The village takes the second part of its name from the Portman family one of the earliest prominent members of which was Sir William Portman (died 1557), Chief Justice of the King’s Bench and lord of the manor. The estate was sold to the Commissioners of Crown Lands in 1944.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe parish church of St Thomas at Thurlbear shows clear signs of the Norman church upon which later structures were built. Pevsner cites the Norman arcades and narrow aisles characteristic of that era and \"never enlarged to satisfy later medieval taste.\" He dates the church to \"hardly later than c. 1110.\" The Churches Conservation Trust launched a programme of repairs at the church, with the Somerset County Council conducting an archaeological recording and survey in conjunction with these efforts.\n\nThe Church of St Michael in Orchard Portman also has Norman origins with the chancel being rebuilt in the early 15th century. It formed part of the former Portman family mansion on the site. The Portman chapel was erected as the south aisle around 1450, demolished in 1844 and rebuilt again in 1910. The tower was rebuilt in 1521. Dr Thomas Bond (1841–1901) a British physician considered by some to be the first offender profiler, and best known for his association with the notorious Jack the Ripper murders of 1888, was buried in the churchyard.\n\nOrchard Portman is the location of Taunton Racecourse which is used for thoroughbred horse racing, as well as a small cricket field.\n"}
{"id": "2157022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157022", "title": "1866 in architecture", "text": "1866 in architecture\n\nThe year 1866 in architecture involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157026", "title": "New Jewish Publication Society of America Tanakh", "text": "New Jewish Publication Society of America Tanakh\n\nThe New Jewish Publication Society of America Tanakh, first published in complete form in 1985, is a modern Jewish translation of the Masoretic Text of the Hebrew Bible into English. It is based on revised editions of earlier publications of subdivisions of the Tanakh such as the Torah and Five Megillot which were originally published from 1969–1982. It is unrelated to the original JPS Tanakh translation, which was based on the Revised Version and American Standard Version but emended to more strictly follow the Masoretic Text, beyond both translations being published by the Jewish Publication Society of America.\n\nThis translation emerged from the collaborative efforts of an interdenominational team of Jewish scholars and rabbis working together over a thirty-year period. These translators based their translation on the Masoretic Hebrew Text, and consistently strove for a faithful, idiomatic rendering of the original scriptural languages.\n\nThe New Jewish Publication Society translation of the Hebrew Bible is the second translation published by the Jewish Publication Society (JPS), superseding its 1917 translation. It is a completely fresh translation into modern English, independent of the earlier translation or any other existing one. Current editions of this version refer to it as \"The Jewish Publication Society Tanakh Translation.\" Originally known by the abbreviation “NJV” (New Jewish Version), it is now styled as “NJPS.”\nThe translation follows the Hebrew or Masoretic text scrupulously, taking a conservative approach regarding conjectural emendations: It avoids them completely for the Torah, but mentions them occasionally in footnotes for Nevi'im and Ketuvim. Attested variants from other ancient versions are also mentioned in footnotes, even for the Torah, in places where the editors thought they might shed light on difficult passages in the Masoretic text.\n\nThe order of the books is as found in published Tanakhim, rather than that of common English Bibles. In particular, it follows the traditional Jewish division into Torah (the five books of Moses), Nevi'im (Prophets) and Ketuvim (Writings). Furthermore, the division into chapters follows the conventions established by printers of the Hebrew text, which occasionally differs from English Bibles. In the Psalms, for instance, the titles are often counted as the first verse, causing a difference of one in verse numbering for these Psalms with respect to other English Bibles.\n\nThe editor in chief of the Torah was Harry Orlinsky, who had been a translator of the Revised Standard Version and would become the only translator of that version to work also on the New Revised Standard Version. The other editors were E. A. Speiser and H. L. Ginsberg. Associated with them were three rabbis: Max Arzt, Bernard Jacob Bamberger, and Harry Freedman, representing the Conservative, Reform, and Orthodox branches of organized Jewish religious life. Solomon Grayzel, editor of the Jewish Publication Society, served as secretary of the committee. The Torah appeared in 1962, with a second edition in 1967.\n\nThe Five Megilloth (Five Scrolls) and Jonah appeared in 1969, the Book of Isaiah in 1973 and the Book of Jeremiah in 1974. Revised versions of Isaiah, Jeremiah and Jonah appeared in Nevi'im (1978), edited by Professor Ginsberg assisted by Professor Orlinsky.\n\nA separate committee was set up in 1966 to translate Ketuvim. It consisted of Moshe Greenberg, Jonas Greenfield and Nahum Sarna. The Psalms appeared in 1973 and the Book of Job in 1980. Revised versions of both, and the Megilloth, appeared in the complete Ketuvim in 1982. The 1985 edition listed the Ketuvim translation team as also including Saul Leeman, Chaim Potok, Martin Rozenberg, and David Shapiro.\n\nSince 2017, the bilingual Hebrew-English edition of the JPS Tanakh (1985 translation) has been digitalized and is available online for free on the website Sefaria.\n\n\nThe NJPS is the basis of the translation used in the official Torah commentaries of both Reform Judaism and Conservative Judaism. Jews in Reconstructionist Judaism and the Chavurah movement also use both Reform and Conservative Torah commentaries, so the NJPS is effectively the primary translation for all forms of English-speaking Judaism outside of Orthodox Judaism. Orthodox Jews use a wider variety of translations, but many use the NJPS as well.\n\n\nAll of these Jewish denominations use their respective Torah commentaries non-exclusively. Within their synagogue libraries, and in use in their adult education classes, one also may find a wide variety of other Torah commentaries, including many from Orthodox Jewish authors and editors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157035", "title": "Chauncey Wright", "text": "Chauncey Wright\n\nChauncey Wright (September 10, 1830 – September 12, 1875) was an American philosopher and mathematician, who was an influential early defender of Darwinism and an important influence on American pragmatists such as Charles Sanders Peirce and William James.\n\nWright was born in Northampton, Massachusetts, the son of a merchant and a pillar of the local Unitarian church. With financial help from a benefactor, Wright attended Harvard, where his reading of Ralph Waldo Emerson led him to abandon his youthful Unitarianism. In 1852 he graduated from Harvard and became a computer to the \"Nautical Almanac\". In college, he was mainly interested in science and mathematics. In the 1850s, however, he began reading philosophers such as Francis Bacon, John Stuart Mill, and William Hamilton, and he became a frequent contributor to the \"North American Review\" and the \"Nation\", becoming a well-known defender of Darwinism and a critic of the English philosopher and social theorist Herbert Spencer.\n\nIn 1870-71 he lectured on psychology at Harvard. Although he was best known to the reading public as a defender of Darwinism, he was an eclectic free-lancer in thought. Among his essays may be mentioned \"The Evolution of Self-Consciousness\" (1873) and two articles on evolution published in the early 1870s. Of these, the former endeavors to explain the most elaborate psychical activities of men as developments of elementary forms of conscious processes in the animal kingdom as a whole; the latter is a defense of the theory of natural selection against the attacks of St George Mivart and Alfred Russel Wallace. From 1863 to 1870 he was secretary and recorder to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and in the last year of his life he lectured on mathematical physics at Harvard. He never married and was subject to periodic bouts of depression and alcoholism. He died of a stroke just after his forty-fifth birthday. Following his death, his close friend Charles Eliot Norton spoke of his great devotion to truth and his eagerness to hear criticisms of his own views. \"To argue with him,\" Norton wrote, \"was a moral no less than an intellectual discipline.\"\n\nIn 1872, Wright helped found The Metaphysical Club with other Harvard intellectuals such as Charles Sanders Peirce, William James and Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. His views on Darwinism played a significant role in shaping the ideas of the other members of the club.\n\nReligiously, Wright was an agnostic, arguing that we should suspend judgment on the existence of God because there is no firm evidence either way. William James's famous will-to-believe argument was partly aimed at Wright's brand of agnosticism. In ethics, he embraced utilitarianism, agreeing with John Stuart Mill that pleasures differ in quality as well as quantity. He was a staunch critic of Herbert Spencer's attempt to extend Darwinism into a law of cosmic and social progress. Like Mill and Auguste Comte, Wright embraced a positivistic approach to science that rejects the possibility (or even meaningfulness) of metaphysics. His claim that scientific principles are \"working hypotheses\" influenced John Dewey and other later pragmatists. Wright's claim that science is metaphysically neutral (being uncommitted to naturalism, idealism, or any other general philosophical worldview or ontology) is seen by some as Wright's central contribution to philosophy.\n\nHis essays were collected and published, with a biographical sketch, by Charles Eliot Norton in 1877, and his \"Letters\" were edited and privately printed at Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1878 by James Bradley Thayer.\n\n\n\n\nAttribution\n\n"}
{"id": "2157037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157037", "title": "Otterford", "text": "Otterford\n\nOtterford is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England. It is situated on the Blackdown Hills, south of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 356.\n\nThe River Otter rises close to Otterford.\n\nA series of round barrows on Brown Down are known as Robin Hood's Butts.\n\nThe village was named \"Oteriford\" in a Taunton charter of 854 by King Æthelwulf of Wessex.\n\nThe parish of Otterford was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe parish Church of St Leonard dates from the 14th century, but was restored, the nave wall rebuilt and the north aisle added in 1860, with further restoration taking place in 1924.\n"}
{"id": "2157045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157045", "title": "1697 in music", "text": "1697 in music\n\nThe year 1697 in music involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157047", "title": "High Seat (Yorkshire Dales)", "text": "High Seat (Yorkshire Dales)\n\nHigh Seat is a fell in the dale of Mallerstang, Cumbria. With a summit at 709 metres, it is the fourth highest fell in the Yorkshire Dales after Whernside, Ingleborough and Great Shunner Fell. It is in the north-western part of the Dales, overlooking the deep trench of Mallerstang, and is usually climbed from this side.\n\nTo the south-east is Hugh Seat (whose summit is marked by Lady Anne's Pillar, commemorating Sir Hugh de Morville). On the opposite (western) side of Mallerstang is the more striking (but 1 metre lower) Wild Boar Fell.\n\nIt is not a Marilyn, having a relative height of 112 m, and therefore may be regarded as a subsidiary top of Great Shunner Fell, to the east. It is, however, a HuMP.\n\nOddly enough, it is the highest point on the main England east-to-west watershed in the Dales, the three higher fells being some distance from the watershed.\nThree great rivers have their origins within a mile of each other in the peat bogs here: the River Eden, the River Swale, and the River Ure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157050", "title": "Pitminster", "text": "Pitminster\n\nPitminster is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated south of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The parish has a population of 956. The parish also includes the villages of Angersleigh, Blagdon Hill and Staplehay. The village of Blagdon is now officially known as Blagdon Hill to distinguish it from Blagdon in North Somerset. Hillside hamlets in the parish comprise Feltham and Woodram, those on the lower plain in the north are Sellicks Green which is contiguous with Blagdon Hill, Duddlestone and Poundisford.\n\nThe name Pitminster means \"the minster or mother church of Pippa's people\".\n\nIn 938 King Athelstan gave the estate, along with nearby Corfe as a tithing to the Bishop of Winchester. By the early 13th century the bishops had established a deer park in the parish which was visited by King John in 1208.\n\nThe parishes of Angersleigh and Pitminster were part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nThe appropriate electoral ward is called 'Blackdown', the most populous area being 'Pitminster'. From there the ward stretches south to Churchstanton. The total ward population at the 2011 Census is 2,064.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe nearby Prior's Park & Adcombe Wood is a 103.6 hectare (256.0 acre) biological Site of Special Scientific Interest with excellent examples of several of the broadleaved semi-natural woodland types associated with the Blackdown Hills. Additional interest lies in the occurrence of several areas of unimproved marshy grassland. This site, which is partly managed by the Somerset Wildlife Trust, is situated on the north facing slopes of the Blackdown Hills, overlooking the Vale of Taunton Deane.\n\nPoundisford Park is a manor house built around 1550 for William Hill. The house was passed down through the Hill family with a dining room being added in 1692 and eventually sold to the Welmans in 1706, the Helyars in 1869 and the Vivian-Neals in 1928.\n\nThe parish Church of St Andrew and St Mary was built around 1300 and has been designated as a Grade I listed building.\n\nThe 14th-century Church of St Michael in Angersleigh has been designated by English Heritage as a Grade II* listed building.\n\nRichard Treat (1584–1669) and his son Robert Treat (1622–1710), who went on to be an American politician, lived in the village.\n"}
{"id": "2157055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157055", "title": "Ludwigia sedioides", "text": "Ludwigia sedioides\n\nLudwigia sedoides, commonly known as mosaic flower and false loosestrife, is a herbaceous perennial plant of the family Onagraceae. It has yellow flowers that bloom from June to August. Native to Brazil and Venezuela, its habitat includes wet, swampy localities.\n\nIt may be invasive in some areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157056", "title": "Neeraj Kayal", "text": "Neeraj Kayal\n\nNeeraj Kayal () is an Indian computer scientist. Kayal was born and raised in Guwahati, India.\n\nKayal graduated with a B.Tech from the Computer Science Department of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur (IITK), India in 2002. In that year, he, Manindra Agrawal and Nitin Saxena proposed the AKS Primality Test, which attracted worldwide attention, including an article in the \"New York Times\". \n\nKayal received his PhD in theoretical computer science from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur. He did postdoctoral research at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton and at Rutgers University. Since 2008, he has been working with the Microsoft Research Lab India as a researcher.\n\nNeeraj Kayal was given the Distinguished Alumnus Award of the IITK, for his work in computational complexity theory. He is also a recipient of the Gödel prize and the Fulkerson Prize for the same along with his co-authors. In 2012, he was awarded the Young Scientist Award from the Indian National Science Academy (INSA) for contributions to the development of arithmetic complexity theory including the development of a deterministic algorithm for primality testing, the resolution of the constant fan-in conjecture for depth three circuits, and a reconstruction algorithm for arithmetic formulas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157057", "title": "Jean-Marie Leclair", "text": "Jean-Marie Leclair\n\nJean-Marie Leclair l'aîné, also known as Jean-Marie Leclair the Elder (10 May 1697 – 22 October 1764), was a Baroque violinist and composer. He is considered to have founded the French violin school. His brothers Jean-Marie Leclair the younger (1703–77), Pierre Leclair (1709–84) and Jean-Benoît Leclair (1714–after 1759) were also musicians.\n\nLeclair was born in Lyon, but left to study dance and the violin in Turin. In 1716, he married Marie-Rose Casthanie, a dancer, who died about 1728. Leclair had returned to Paris in 1723, where he played at the Concert Spirituel, the main semi-public music series. His works included several sonatas for flute and basso continuo.\n\nIn 1730, Leclair married for the second time. His new wife was the engraver Louise Roussel, who prepared for printing all his works from Opus 2 onward. Named \"ordinaire de la musique\" by Louis XV in 1733, Leclair resigned in 1737 after a clash with Guidon over control of the musique du Roy.\n\nLeclair was then engaged by the Princess of Orange – a fine harpsichordist and former student of Handel – and from 1738 until 1743, served three months annually at her court in Leeuwarden, working in The Hague as a private for the remainder of the year. He returned to Paris in 1743. His only opera \"Scylla et Glaucus\" was first performed in 1746 and has been revived in modern times. From 1740 until his death in Paris, he served the Duke of Gramont, in whose private theatre at Puteaux were staged works to which Leclair is known to have contributed. They included, in particular, a lengthy divertissement for the comedy (1749) and one complete entrée, , for the opéra-ballet by various authors, (1750).\n\nLeclair was renowned as a violinist and as a composer. He successfully drew upon all of Europe's national styles. Many suites, sonatas, and concertos survive along with his opera, while some vocal works, ballets, and other stage music are lost.\n\nIn 1758, after the break-up of his second marriage, Leclair purchased a small house in a dangerous Parisian neighborhood in the northern part of Le Marais near the old Temple, where he was found stabbed to death on October 23, 1764. Although the murder remains a mystery, there is a possibility that his ex-wife may have been behind it – her motive being financial gain – although the strongest suspicion rests on his nephew, Guillaume-François Vial.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157058", "title": "Shiwanzhen Subdistrict", "text": "Shiwanzhen Subdistrict\n\nShiwanzhen Subdistrict () is a subdistrict of Chancheng District, located in the southwest of the city of Foshan, Guangdong province, People's Republic of China. It has a land area of and a population of 42,700.\n\nShiwan has a long history of ceramic sculpture, with many vivid works by generations of craftsmen. Its 5000-year-long ceramic making history has accumulated the rich and abundant ceramic culture, and won the high prestige of the \"Capital of Ceramics in South China\".\n"}
{"id": "2157059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157059", "title": "Ruishton", "text": "Ruishton\n\nRuishton is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated on the River Tone and A358 road east of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 1,473. The parish includes the hamlet of Henlade.\n\nThe name Ruishton means \"settlement where rushes grow\".\n\nCambria Farm which is now the site of a Park and ride close to Junction 25 of the M5 motorway was the site of a Bronze and Iron Age settlement and Roman farm.\n\nThe tithings of Ruishton and Henlade formed part of the manor of Taunton Deane from the 9th century. The parish of Ruishton was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nHenlade House was built between 1805 and 1815, by an unidentified Italian architect for John Proctor Anderdon. It has been designated as a Grade II* listed building. It is now a hotel.\n\nRuishton House dates from 1893. It was built by a Mr Spiller for Stuart Somerville. The Somerville family owned the paperworks at Creech St Michael, and there is a memorial to them in the Church of St George.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nThe appropriate electoral ward is called 'Ruishton and Creech'. The ward stretches from Thornfalcon in the south, through Creech St. Michael to Adsborough. The total population of this ward is 4,008.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe Norman parish Church of St George was built in the 14th and 15th centuries and has been designated as a grade I listed building. In the churchyard is the remains of a 15th-century cross.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157065", "title": "The DeCastro Sisters", "text": "The DeCastro Sisters\n\nThe DeCastro Sisters were an American singing group. They originally consisted of Peggy DeCastro (1921–2004), Cherie DeCastro (1922–2010) and Babette DeCastro (1925–1992). When Babette retired in 1958, a cousin, Olgita DeCastro Marino (1931–2000), replaced her and when Peggy later left the group to go solo, Babette re-joined Cherie and Olgita. Peggy eventually returned and Babette once more retired.\n\nThe DeCastro Sisters began as a Latin-flavored trio and were protegees of Carmen Miranda. They eventually became more Americanized in their performances and added comedy.\n\nThe biggest hit single for the group was \"Teach Me Tonight\", in 1954. The song reached No. 2 in the United States, and the follow-up, \"Boom Boom Boomerang (song)|Boom Boom Boomerang\", reached No. 17. The group is referenced in an episode of \"The Sopranos\", \"Do Not Resuscitate\", as one of the only music groups that matriarch Livia actually likes, along with Mario Lanza.\n\nThe three original DeCastro Sisters — Peggy, Cherie and Babette — were raised in Havana, Cuba, in a family mansion that was seized by Fidel Castro during the Cuban revolution and is now used as the Chinese Embassy. Their mother, Babette Buchanan, was a Chicago-born Ziegfeld Follies showgirl who married the wealthy Cuban aristocrat Juan Fernandez de Castro, owner of a large sugar plantation in the Dominican Republic, where first daughter Peggy was born. De Castro later developed radio and television in Cuba with David Sarnoff, who was often a guest at their home and was also in charge of a planned project under the Batista regime to build a canal through Cuba, which never materialized.\n\nDe Castro purchased a co-op apartment at The Dakota in Manhattan, where Cherie Dawn DeCastro was born on September 1, 1922. Youngest daughter Babette was born back in Havana. The De Castro Sisters, always strongly chaperoned, began their singing careers as young girls and patterned themselves as a Cuban version of the Andrews Sisters. They emigrated to Miami in 1942, where they were seen by an agent from General Artists Corporation (now ICM) and booked into the Copacabana in New York with the Will Mastin Trio featuring Sammy Davis Jr. \n\nAs their careers progressed their act became more flamboyant, and they worked across the country, including at the Palladium in Hollywood, where they sang with Tito Puente's band and made their first recordings. In 1946, they provided several of the bird and animal voices for Walt Disney's animated \"Song of the South\", including the Oscar-winning \"Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah\". They appeared on screen with Carmen Miranda and Groucho Marx in the 1947 film \"Copacabana\", the same year that they joined Bob Hope and Cecil B. DeMille on the live premiere broadcast special launching KTLA in Los Angeles, the first telecast west of the Mississippi. The sisters were introduced by Hope and sang \"Babalu\", which was filmed by a Paramount newsreel cameraman and is the only surviving footage of the original three-hour show.\n\nIn 1954, the more Americanized DeCastro Sisters were signed by a small country label, Abbott Records, and their first release featured \"It's Love\" as the A-side, backed by a Sammy Cahn-Gene DePaul song, \"Teach Me Tonight\", which had been suggested at the last minute by their bass player. The label was pushing \"It's Love\", but Cleveland disc jockey Bill Randall turned the record over and \"Teach Me Tonight\" soon became a hit, peaking at No. 2 on the charts and selling more than five million copies. Several more recordings followed, including \"Too Late Now\", \"Boom Boom Boomerang\", \"Snowbound For Christmas\", \"With My Eyes Wide Open I'm Dreaming\", and numerous albums on a variety of labels including RCA Victor, ABC-Paramount, Capitol, and 20th Century-Fox. \n\nNow major headliners, they shared the bill with Noël Coward when he made his Las Vegas debut at the Desert Inn in 1954, which had one of the most star-studded and publicized opening nights of any show in the town's history. Coward would watch their act every night while waiting to go on himself. They were part of another historic engagement in 1959, when they joined the Las Vegas debuts of George Burns as a solo act and a young singer named Bobby Darin at the Sahara. It was the DeCastros who told Darin that he should record one of the featured songs in his act, \"Mack the Knife\"; Darin thought it was just a nightclub number, but he later took their advice. \n\nThe DeCastro Sisters appeared on most major TV shows including \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" and \"The Perry Como Show\". They also made numerous film shorts including Universal's \"Swingin' and Singin\" with Maynard Ferguson and \"Riot in Rhythm\" with Harry James. At various times Peggy and Babette took leave from the act and were replaced by a cousin Olgita, so Cherie was the only sister who was part of every appearance and recording that the group ever made.\n\nIn 1988, they made a comeback at Vegas World in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nIn 1997, they were part of KTLA's 50th anniversary broadcast in Los Angeles and headlined at the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel's Cinegrill. Three years later, they were inducted in the Casino Legends Hall of Fame as Las Vegas Living Legends. Cherie continued to perform and sang \"Teach Me Tonight\" on the 2004 PBS special \"My Music: Moments To Remember\".\n\nBabette died of cancer in 1992. Olgita died of asthma on February 14, 2000. Peggy died of lung cancer on March 6, 2004 in Las Vegas, at the age of 82. Cherie, the only sister to appear on every recording, film, TV and stage appearance, died of pneumonia on March 14, 2010, at the age of 87.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157076", "title": "Sampford Arundel", "text": "Sampford Arundel\n\nSampford Arundel is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England. It is situated near Wellington and south west of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 268.\n\nThe parish, which lies at the western end of the Blackdown Hills, includes the hamlets of Bagley Green, Sampford Moor, White Ball and Beam Bridge where a temporary terminus of the Bristol and Exeter Railway was established in 1843 until the line was completed to Exeter in 1844.\n\nThere is a Junior School, an interesting church and an old telephone box. There are no shops and few street lamps. There is a cricket club and the main attraction for visitors is the countryside.\n\nThe first part of the name 'Sampford' means \"sandy ford\" and the second part 'Arundel' commemorates Roger Arundel who was granted the manor by the time of the Domesday Book of 1086, and to differentiate the village from Sampford Brett.\n\nThe parish of Sampford Arundel was part of the Milverton Hundred,\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.a\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Wellington Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe Anglican parish Church of the Holy Cross has fourteenth-century origins and a fifteenth-century tower. However the rest of the church was largely rebuilt and the tower restored in the 1870s. It has been designated as a Grade II listed building. The church was given by the Arundels to Canonsleigh Priory which retained it until the dissolution of the monasteries.\n"}
{"id": "2157080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157080", "title": "Staple Fitzpaine", "text": "Staple Fitzpaine\n\nStaple Fitzpaine is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated south of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 189 and is within the Blackdown Hills Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. The parish includes the hamlet of Badger Street.\n\nThe parish (by area the second-largest in Somerset) stretches south to Castle Neroche, east to Whitty Cross, west to Staple Hill and north to just past Smokey Bottom. The main part of the village is centred on the crossroads by the \"Greyhound Inn\", on the Taunton-Chard road. Curland and Bickenhall, two smaller villages close by to the east, are socially and culturally one with Staple Fitzpaine. They have a combined population of almost 200.\n\nAround the crossroads at Staple Fitzpaine there are several large sandstone boulders. They are called devilstones and are said to have been thrown by the Devil from Castle Neroche (some went over Staple to land in the Witch Lodge area, another he tossed back over his shoulder into West Buckland). According to legend if you prick them with a pin they draw blood. English word 'Stapol' means pillar or post and it is thought likely that this gave the village the first part of its name. The second part of the name comes from the Fitzpaine family who owned the manor between 1233 and 1393.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe William Portman Almshouses in the village date from 1643, and were restored in 1970. They were originally donated by Sir William Portman. The Portman family from nearby Orchard Portman purchased the village in 1600 and dominated it until 1944.\n\nThe Manor was built in 1840 as the rectory for the Rev. Fitzhardinge Berkeley Portman.\n\nThe Church of St Peter is Norman in origin, and has a Norman doorway reset in the south aisle. The chancel dates from the 14th century. The north aisle was added and the church refenestrated in the 15th century. The tower dates from about 1500, however the south porch and vestry are much more recent, dating from 1841. The crenellated three-stage tower has merlons pierced with trefoil headed arches set on a quatrefoil pierced parapet. The church has been designated by English Heritage as a Grade I listed building.\n\nThe church has six bells, the heaviest at 16/17cwt. The no.2 is the oldest, from 1480, and the newest addition is the treble bell which was brought in during the mid 1980s from Chaffcombe church. In 1803 one of the bells was made by Thomas Castleman Bilbie of Cullompton, one of the Bilbie family of bell founders and clock makers.\n\nThe churchyard is also home to a sandstone cross. It was built in the 14th century and then largely rebuilt around 1894.\n"}
{"id": "2157084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157084", "title": "Wilshire/Western station", "text": "Wilshire/Western station\n\nWilshire/Western is the current western terminus of the D Line of Los Angeles Metro Rail. As its name implies, the subway station is located at Wilshire Boulevard and Western Avenue, in Los Angeles' Mid-Wilshire/Koreatown District. It is one of only two subway stations in the system not shared with the B Line.\n\nPrior plans called for this subway to extend to Fairfax Ave. and then north into the Valley but due to political disagreements, the line currently terminates here and the B Line travels to the Valley via Vermont Avenue. Metro is now currently constructing the Purple Line Extension to extend the Purple Line west from this station to Westwood/VA Hospital station in Westwood, near UCLA.\n\nThe two artwork installations at Wilshire/Western are called \"People Coming\", and the other \"People Going\". They are large murals at each end of the station. The artist responsible is Richard Wyatt, a Lynwood native.\n\nA condominium tower named Solair opened above the station in 2009. \n\nD Line service hours are approximately from 5:00 AM until 12:45 AM daily.\n\nMetro services\n\nOther local and commuter services\n\n"}
{"id": "2157089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157089", "title": "Thomas Wykes (chronicler)", "text": "Thomas Wykes (chronicler)\n\nThomas Wykes (11 March 1222 — 1291×93), English chronicler, was a canon regular of Oseney Abbey, near Oxford.\n\nHe was the author of a chronicle extending from 1066 to 1289, which is printed among the monastic annals edited by Henry Richards Luard for the Rolls Series. He gives an account of the Second Barons' War from a royalist standpoint, and is a severe critic of Montfort's policy. His work regarding the reign of Edward I is especially useful. His chronicles are connected with the \"Oseney Annals\", which are printed parallel with his work by Luard, but Wykes is an independent authority between 1258-78.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157091", "title": "Stawley", "text": "Stawley\n\nStawley is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated west of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The parish has a population of 279 and includes the village of Kittisford and the hamlets of Appley, Greenham and Tracebridge.\n\nThe manor was recorded in the Domesday Book of 1086 as held by Osward and Ailward from the overlord Alured the Spaniard. Later the manor was the property of the Powlett family of Hinton St George.\nThe parishes of Kittisford and Stawley were part of the historic Milverton hundred,\n\nHill Farm was built in the late 16th century. It is a Grade II* listed building. The farm now has around 100 goats and makes three kinds of cheese.\n\nThe hamlet of Greenham is located on the banks of the River Tone, and has two historic houses within its area. The 19th century St Peter's Church, Greenham, was built in the Gothic Revival style and was consecrated on 7 July 1860 on land given to the parish by Thomas Edward Clarke, of Tremlett House. In its graveyard is buried the wife of Sir Edward du Cann (born 1924), the longtime Member of Parliament for Taunton Deane and former owner of Cothay Manor.\n\n\nSince 1999 work has been underway to move and re-establish the village shop and post office, which opened on a new site in 2006 near the primary school.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Wellington Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe soil consists of clay, with a subsoil of sandstone and limestone. The village has a high density of rare flora and fauna, including eight species of endangered birds.\n\nThe parish Church of St Michael dates from the 13th century and has been designated as a Grade I listed building. The church register dates from 1528.\n\nThe Church of St Nicholas in Kittisford dates from the 15th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157098", "title": "Stoke St Gregory", "text": "Stoke St Gregory\n\nStoke St Gregory is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, about east of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village is on a low ridge of land between the River Tone to the north and West Sedgemoor to the south. The 2011 Census recorded the parish's population as 942.\n\nThe parish of Stoke St Gregory was part of the North Curry Hundred. The manor was held, with North Curry, from 1190 by the dean and chapter of Wells Cathedral.\n\nThe parish includes the Willows and Wetlands visitor centre which offers tours of more than 80 acres (0.12 sq mi) of withies, willow yards and basket workshops and explains the place of willow in the history of the Somerset Levels. Lovell's Farm has a withy boiler that was built in 1906.\n\nSlough Farmhouse, formerly called Slough Court, was built in the late Middle Ages as a fortified manor house. It is a Grade II* listed building.\n\nThe civil parish has a parish council. The parish is in the Non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton and the non-metropolitan county of Somerset, governed by Somerset County Council. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that.\n\nStoke St Gregory is part of Taunton Deane county constituency, represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe Church of England parish of church of St Gregory was built in the 14th century. It has some 15th- and 18th-century features, was twice restored in the 19th century and is a Grade I listed building. There is a set of 17th- or 18th-century stocks in the churchyard. Nearby may be found the grave of Bunny Austin, renowned 1930's tennis champion.\n\nThe Baptist Church was built in 1895 and has stables at the rear.\n\nThe original hall, a converted barn, had been donated by a Miss Williams in 1931. The objective of the Trust is, in the quaint language of the Trust Deed.\n\n\"The provision and maintenance of a village hall for the use of the inhabitants of Stoke St Gregory without distinction of political, religious or other opinions”.\n\nThe “new” Stoke St Gregory village hall - the Williams Hall - was opened in 2006. The project to replace the old hall was largely funded through the efforts of those in the village who passionately believed in a facility to serve and support the local community.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157102", "title": "Stoke St Mary", "text": "Stoke St Mary\n\nStoke St Mary is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated south east of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district.\n\nThe earliest recorded mention of Stoke St Mary is in a Saxon charter dated 854 AD, when a West Saxon king gave the clearly defined lands at ‘Stoc’ to the minster church at Taunton.\n\nThe parish of Stoke St Mary was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nThe Church of St Mary in Stoke St Mary was built in the 13th century and is a simple stone building with battlemented tower. It remains largely unchanged today and the tower is one of the few remaining 13th-century towers in the county.\nAgriculture has always been the main occupation in Stoke St Mary but in the 17th century the cloth industry became important in the village and limeburners were common, most working quarries on Stoke Hill. The parish of Stoke St Mary also became famous for its cider and although it is no longer produced in the village, Taunton remains well known for it.\nOver the last 20 years the village has changed dramatically with the decline of agriculture and it has become mostly a dormitory village. The village has also grown with the building of new houses, which continues.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nDespite its rural setting, Stoke St Mary is very well-connected. It is about a mile from the A358 which heads east and only two miles from the M5. The nearest railway station is two miles away in Taunton, which is on the mainline between Exeter and Bristol and has a line going directly to Reading.\n\nThe village is part of the Taunton parliamentary constituency, for which Rebecca Pow (Conservative), who resides in Stoke St Mary, is now M.P. - elected in 2015.\n\nWindows Live Local Aerial photo of the village\n"}
{"id": "2157111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157111", "title": "Vons", "text": "Vons\n\nVons is a Southern California and Southern Nevada supermarket chain owned by Albertsons. It is headquartered in Fullerton, California, and operates stores under the Vons and Pavilions banners. Before the acquisition by Albertsons, it was owned by Safeway and headquartered in Arcadia, California.\n\nCharles Von der Ahe opened a 20-foot wide store named Von's Groceteria in downtown Los Angeles, California, in 1906. The business had grown to 87 stores by 1928, when he sold the operation to MacMarr Stores. MacMarr was acquired by M.B. Skaggs' Safeway in 1930. In 1932, his sons Theodore and Wilfred restarted the Von's Grocery Company.\n\nIn 1948, Von's opened a pioneering store which offered self-service, pre-packaged produce, meat, and deli items. By 1958, it had doubled in size to 27 stores, the third-largest grocery chain in the Greater Los Angeles Area In 1960 it acquired the sixth-largest, competitor Shopping Bag, a merger that was challenged by the Federal Trade Commission on antitrust grounds. In 1966 the United States Supreme Court ruled against Von's in \"United States v. Von's Grocery Co.\" (384 U.S. 270), forcing a re-divestiture of the stores, which were eventually sold to Fisher Foods. The Von der Ahe family sold the chain to Household Finance Corporation in 1969. In 1970, Vons had 128 stores, making it the 2nd largest supermarket chain in southern California behind Safeway.\n\nIn 1984, Vons was named official supermarket of the 1984 Summer Olympics.\n\nIn 1985, William Davila was named president and CEO of Vons, the first Mexican American to be CEO of an American supermarket chain. Prior to his appointment, Davila worked for 37 years at Vons before becoming CEO. He opened Tianguis in 1986, catering to Hispanic consumers, and was well received as the company's television spokesman, starring in commercials in both English and Spanish during his tenure. He retired in 1999.\n\nIn 1986, Household spun off Vons Companies in a leveraged buyout. To recapitalize itself, Vons merged with Detroit, Michigan-based Allied Supermarkets and sold off its assets outside California. Vons was listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 1987.\n\nIn October 1985, Vons introduced Pavilions, a \"combination store\" concept which offered a wider variety of upscale products as well as pharmacy and other non-food products and services. Some stores that were smaller were branded Pavilions Place.\n\nIn 1988, Safeway sold most of its stores in southern California and southern Nevada to Vons in exchange for an ownership stake. On April 8, 1997, Safeway acquired Vons for stock and Vons became a subsidiary of Safeway.\nIn March 2014, Cerberus Capital Management (which also owns rival grocery chain Albertsons) agreed to terms to purchase Vons' parent, Safeway. Cerberus' plans to merge the chains would likely result in store closures, especially with both Vons and Albertsons having a significant presence in Southern California. In late 2014, the FTC mandated that the new Albertson's/Safeway merger sell off almost 200 stores to allow for sufficient competition in markets where both Safeway and Albertson's stores had existed in price rivalry. One of the key buyers was Bellingham, Washington-based Haggen grocers which rebranded the newly purchased stores in Washington, Oregon, California, Arizona, and Nevada in early 2015 only to sell back the affected stores just months later after Haggen was forced into bankruptcy as a result of purchasing the new stores. Haggen was soon after acquired by Albertson's.\n\nOn April 18, 2005, Safeway began a $100 million brand re-positioning campaign labeled \"Ingredients for life.\" This was done in an attempt to differentiate itself from its competitors, and to increase brand involvement. Steve Burd described it as \"branding the shopping experience.\"\n\nThe launch included a redesigned logo, a new slogan \"Ingredients for life\" alongside a four-panel life icon to be used throughout stores and advertising, and a web application called \"FoodFlex\" to improve consumer nutrition. Many locations are being converted to the \"Lifestyle\" format. The new look was designed by Michigan-based PPC Design. In addition to the \"inviting decor with warm ambiance and subdued lighting,\" the move required heavy redesign of store layout, new employee uniforms, sushi and olive bars, and the addition of in-store Starbucks kiosks (with cupholders on grocery carts). The change also involved differentiating the company from competitors with promotions based on the company's extensive loyalty card database. At the end of 2004, there were 142 \"Lifestyle\" format stores in the United States and Canada, with plans to open or remodel another 300 stores with this type of theme the following year. \"Lifestyle format\" stores have seen significantly higher average weekly sales than their other stores. By the end of 2006, shares were up proving that this rebranding campaign had a major impact on sale figures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157113", "title": "Community interest company", "text": "Community interest company\n\nA community interest company (CIC) is a type of company introduced by the United Kingdom government in 2005 under the Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004, designed for social enterprises that want to use their profits and assets for the public good. CICs are intended to be easy to set up, with all the flexibility and certainty of the company form, but with some special features to ensure they are working for the benefit of the community. They have proved popular and some 10,000 registered in the status's first 10 years.\n\nA community interest company is a business with primary social objectives whose surpluses are principally reinvested for that purpose in the business or in the community, rather than being driven by the need to maximise profit for shareholders and owners. CICs tackle a wide range of social and environmental issues and operate in all parts of the economy. By using business solutions to achieve public good, it is believed that CICs have a distinct and valuable role to play in helping create a strong, sustainable and socially inclusive economy.\n\nThe community interest company emerged from a number of sources, many citing the absence in the UK of a company form for not-for-profit social enterprises similar to the public benefit corporation in the USA. One early notable proposal was advanced in 2001 by the Public Management Foundation in \"The case for the public interest company\", based on research supported by the Gulbenkian Foundation, Gordon Roddick and the Office for Public Management.\n\nCICs are diverse. They include social and community enterprises, social firms, mutual organisations such as co-operatives, and large-scale organisations operating locally, regionally, nationally or internationally.\n\nCICs must be limited companies of one form or another. A CIC cannot be a charity, an IPS or an unincorporated organisation.\n\nLimited liability companies that do not have charitable status find it difficult to ensure that their assets are dedicated to public benefit. There is no simple, clear way of locking the assets of such a company to a public benefit purpose, other than applying for charitable status. The community interest company is intended to meet this need.\n\nWhen a CIC is requested, the CIC regulator considers whether the application meets the criteria to become a CIC. If satisfied, the regulator advises the registrar in Companies House who, provided that all the documents are in order, will issue a certificate of incorporation as a CIC.\n\nA charity can convert to a CIC with the consent of the Charity Commission. In so doing it will lose its charitable status, including tax advantages. A charity may own a CIC, in which case the CIC would be permitted to pass assets to the charity. CICs are more lightly regulated than charities but do not have the benefit of charitable status, even if their objects are entirely charitable in nature.\n\nThose who may want to set up a CIC are expected to be philanthropic entrepreneurs who want to do good in a form other than charity. This may be because:\n\nCICs must annually provide form CIC34 as part of their annual submission to Companies House. This includes confirmation of Director remuneration and some explanation of their social impact or evidence of the social benefit that they have provided over the last financial year.\n\nFormation and registration are similar to that of any limited company. New organisations can register by filing the Form IN01 and memorandum and articles of association together with a form CIC36 signed by all their directors, explaining their community credentials, to the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales, or the Registrar for Scotland, with a fee of £35. Since 11 March 2019, CICs can be registered online for a reduced fee of £27.\n\nExisting companies can convert to a CIC by passing resolutions which make changes to their name and to their memorandum and articles of association and by delivering to the Registrar of Companies copies of these documents, together with a fee for £35, and a form CIC37 (which is similar to a CIC36, but asks for confirmation that the company is not a charity, or that permission has been obtained from the Charity Commission to convert from a charity to a CIC). The Registrar will conduct the normal checks for registration and pass the papers to the Regulator of Community Interest Companies, to determine whether the company satisfies the community interest test.\n\nCICs cannot:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157118", "title": "Living Enrichment Center", "text": "Living Enrichment Center\n\nLiving Enrichment Center (LEC) was a New Thought organization and retreat center in the U.S. state of Oregon. It was founded in the farmhouse of senior minister Mary Manin Morrissey of Scholls, Oregon, in the mid-1970s; the church moved to a 94,500 square foot (8,800 m²) building on a forested area of 95 acres (384,000 m²) in Wilsonville in 1992. Over the course of its existence, the congregation grew from less than a dozen to an estimated 4,000, making it the biggest New Thought church in the state. Living Enrichment Center maintained an in-house bookstore, retreat center, café, kindergarten and elementary school, and an outreach television ministry.\n\nLiving Enrichment Center closed in 2004 as a result of a $10.7 million financial scandal. Edward Morrissey pleaded guilty to money laundering and using church money for the personal expenses of himself and his wife. He was sentenced to two years in federal prison. He was released in early 2007. Living Enrichment Center dissolved in 2004, from which several ministries emerged including New Thought Center for Spiritual Living., Celebration Church and Whole Life Center in Lake Oswego.\n\nThe origins of the Living Enrichment Center were in a church called The Truth Center that Mary Manin Morrissey and her first husband started in the living room of their small farm in rural Oregon in 1974. The church was not successful, and in 1979 Morrissey and her husband took the family and their ministry on the road, offering workshops on building self-esteem in churches around the country. After a year on the road, Morrissey founded a church in the Odd Fellows Hall in Beaverton, Oregon, after she felt she had received divine guidance to start a ministry. A church management consultant advised Morrissey and her husband to name the church after what they aimed to do; as they aimed to enrich people's lives, they called themselves the Living Enrichment Center.\n\nIn November 1992, Living Enrichment Center acquired the former Callahan Center, in Wilsonville, which consisted of a three-level building on a lot. The lot also included 13 cabins, with over 70 rooms, which were used for spiritual retreats conducted via the church's sister organization, Namaste Retreat Center. By 1997 the church were engaged in a campaign via a Portland Sunday TV message, advertising, and outreach programs, to grow the local congregation by an extra 200 members.\n\nLiving Enrichment Center maintained an in-house bookstore, retreat center, cafe, kindergarten and elementary school, and an outreach television ministry.\n\nThe Namaste Retreat and Conference Center was started in 1994, and by 1996 the annual revenue was $1.5 million with an operating surplus.\n\nThe retreat center took its name from the sanskrit word namaste. In its literature, Namaste Retreat Center billed itself as \"Oregon's leading spiritual retreat center.\" Many personalities within the New Age and New Thought communities conducted retreats at Namaste Retreat Center. Retreat leaders included: Marianne Williamson, Wayne Dyer, Deepak Chopra, Jean Houston, Barbara Marx Hubbard, Shakti Gawain, Stanislav Grof, and Arun Gandhi.\n\nCristofori School was a kindergarten through third grade school that was headquartered at Living Enrichment Center during the mid-to-late 1990s. Students were taught the usual age-appropriate lessons in math, reading, writing, etc. Students were also exposed to the ecumenical philosophy of New Thought, which was the governing philosophy of Cristofori's governing institution Living Enrichment Center.\n\nIn April of (1997), LEC began a 1/2 hour weekly taped television show on commercial TV in Los Angeles, San Francisco Bay area, including Sacramento, Phoenix, Dallas, Fort Worth, and Seattle. LEC committed to spend $120,000 on this aspect of the ministry. It is anticipated that the broadening of this ministry will develop additional revenue from the sale of products and be an additional source of contribution revenue, taking the pressure off the local congregation and the retreat center to support the operation of the Center. Currently, 15% of the contributions LEC receives (approximately $300,000 a year) comes from outside the Portland metropolitan area.\n\nLife Keys was a name brand created by Rev. Morrissey. Life Keys produced audio tapes, CDs, and video cassettes of Mary Morrissey's Sunday talks. The videos were broadcast on many Public-access television cable TV stations across the West Coast of the United States. The audio and video cassettes were also available for purchase in Living Enrichment Center's Living Bookends Bookstore. Often, audio cassettes of a Sunday service were available immediately after service. The audio tapes were also available via a mail subscription. The audio cassette and CD recordings produced by Life Keys were sold to an audience from all over the world. Though most of the talks in the Life Keys series were delivered by Mary Manin Morrissey, some were recordings of talks given by visiting speakers such as Arun Gandhi, Marianne Williamson, and Wayne Dyer.\n\nAudio products fall into three categories: audio books, audio albums on a particular subject, and a weekly tape of Mary's Sunday talk. We have two audio publishers who have expressed interest in Mary's products. It is anticipated that we will self-publish the weekly message which, through subscription and the small group process, would become the basis for the national outreach. Currently the weekly message subscriptions are approximately $260/year. The weekly message will also be available soon by subscription on the Internet at a price of $3/week. This has the advantage of delivering the talk on audio with no additional cost for duplication, shipping and handling.\n\nThe \"Life Keys\" series discontinued in 2004 when Living Enrichment Center filed for bankruptcy and closed its doors. Mary Manin Morrissey's last talk distributed in the \"Life Keys\" series was entitled \"The Right Questions to Ask\" and was recorded on August 1, 2004. It was also Morrissey's last talk as Senior Minister of Living Enrichment Center. In this last talk, Morrissey says her life is in \"disarray\", saying that her husband is in a mental hospital for depression and that she herself needs to take a break. During part of the talk she seems to be on the verge of tears.\n\nIn early 2004, Mary Morrissey was sued by members of her congregation for unpaid loans. It was reported that the loans were often made personally to Morrissey, and that the personal finances of herself, her husband, Edward Morrissey, and Living Enrichment Center had not been treated separately. In an e-mail to \"Willamette Week\", Steve Unger, Morrissey's attorney, wrote that the Morrisseys had committed commingling, and that \"the finances of [the] LEC, New Thought Broadcasting, Mary Morrissey and Ed Morrissey were treated not separately, but as a kind of 'financial family.'\" By the summer of 2004, the sum total of the debt was reported by \"Willamette Week\" and \"The Oregonian\" as totaling more than $20 million. Throughout the month of June, Mary Morrissey and Harry Morgan Moses conducted a series of talks called \"Standing Firm While Your World is Shaking\", for a \"love offering\" of $15 per class or $100 for the series. On July 14, 2004, Living Enrichment Center held \"Calling Forth a Miracle: A Benefit for Living Enrichment Center with Very Special Guests\" and declared 2004–2005 as \"The Year of the Miracle\".\n\nOn April 17, 2005, Jeff Manning of \"The Oregonian\" wrote, \"Edward Morrissey, husband of embattled former church pastor Mary Manin Morrissey, admitted in federal court Wednesday that he defrauded members of his wife's church in soliciting $10.7 million in loans. He pleaded guilty to one count of money laundering, a felony that could get him 36 months or more in federal prison. ... Edward Morrissey's plea will probably not put to rest lingering questions over the deal that the Morrisseys cut with federal and state officials. Some former Living Enrichment parishioners were angered that Mary Morrissey eluded federal charges. Mary Morrissey leaned hard on parishioners to make the loans, some said, but she has claimed she had no knowledge of her husband's use of that money. ... Mary Morrissey agreed to contribute 25 percent of her disposable income to retiring the debt until parishioners are fully repaid or for the next 20 years, whichever comes first.\"\n\nOn April 6, 2005, Bend.com reported that a settlement deal between the Morrisseys and the Department of Consumer and Business Services had been reached: \"As part of this settlement, neither of the Morrisseys may offer or sell securities. Further, Edward Morrissey agreed to plead guilty to a single federal count of money laundering. The plea agreement reached between Edward Morrissey and the U.S. Attorney's Office calls for the government to recommend a 36-month sentence, but that recommendation is not binding on the court.\"\n\nAfter a year in prison at Terminal Island, in August 2006, Edward Morrissey was transferred to a halfway house in Seattle, Washington. Morrissey was released from the halfway house on February 2, 2007. In the August 28, 2006, edition of the \"Wilsonville Spokesman\", editor Curt Kipp wrote that Mary Morrissey has repaid $24,000 of the debt.\n\nIn a letter to \"Willamette Week\" in 2004, the lawyer for Mary Morrissey's then-husband, Edward Morrissey, admitted that the couple had committed commingling. Mary Manin Morrissey's second ex-husband, Edward Morrissey, pleaded guilty to money laundering and using church money for the personal expenses of himself and his wife, and spent time in federal prison. The \"Seattle Times\" reports that the Morrisseys committed \"financial improprieties\" and that some former members of Living Enrichment Center were upset with the deal the Morrisseys struck with federal prosecutors. Former congregant John Trudel of Newberg, Oregon, is reported to have loaned the church $100,000 between 2000 and 2002. Trudel is quoted as saying that church money was being diverted. \"Willamette Week\" wrote that Steve Unger, lawyer for the Morrisseys, admitted that the couple had committed commingling. \"The Oregonian\" writes that Mary Morrissey signed a consent agreement with state securities regulators, agreeing to repay $10.7 million to her former congregation, but she is in default and that at the rate Mary Morrissey is making repayment it will take her 300 years to repay congregation debt in full. KATU writes that the debt may never be repaid. \"Wilsonville Spokesman\" has reported that the amount of money Mary Morrissey has repaid would amount to less than half a penny per dollar of debt.\n\n\"KATU\" reported that Edward Morrissey agreed to plead guilty to money laundering on the condition that Mary Manin Morrissey not be charged with a crime. \"The Oregonian\" wrote in 2009 that Mary Morrissey signed a consent agreement agreeing to repay the debt, but that she is in default of the consent agreement.\n\nLiving Enrichment Center abandoned the Wilsonville facilities in June 2004. The church moved to Valley Theatre, a movie theater in Beaverton. The first service at Valley Theatre was held on July 4, 2004. On August 5, 2004, in an e-mail to her congregation, Morrissey announced her resignation as Senior Minister, President, and Board Member of Living Enrichment Center. The final service was held on August 29, 2004, at Valley Theatre.\n\nThree separate ministries grew out of the demise of Living Enrichment Center. \"Friends of Mary\", an organization established by Mary Morrissey, eventually evolved into \"Life Soulutions\". Several other former LEC ministers established New Thought Ministries of Oregon. Barry Dennis, a former LEC musician, established \"Celebration Church\".\n\nIn 2006, Curt Kipp of the Wilsonville News Blog wrote that the abandoned Living Enrichment Center site at Wilsonville was reported to have been sold to a developer, with speculation that it would be demolished for redevelopment. In 2013, Josh Kulla of the Wilsonville Spokesman wrote that the building that stood on the Living Enrichment Center site had been demolished and the plot of land was slated to be developed as part of the future expansion of the Villebois housing development.\n\nMary Manin Boggs Morrissey Dickey was the founder (along with her then-husband Haven Boggs) and senior minister of Living Enrichment Center. Edward Morrissey married Mary Manin Boggs (thereafter known as Mary Manin Morrissey) in the mid-1990s, and shortly after the marriage Edward Morrissey became the CFO of the church. In the October 16, 2006, \"Oregonian\" article \"Forgiveness, for minister, starts with self\", staff writer S. Renee Mitchell indicated that Mary Morrissey and Ed Morrissey have divorced. Mitchell wrote, \"When the smoke cleared, Morrissey — who had once cozied up to the Dalai Lama and other world spiritual leaders — was divorced, houseless and in debt for more than $10 million.\"\n\nAfter a year in prison at Terminal Island, in August 2006, Edward Morrissey was transferred to a halfway house in Portland, Oregon. He was released from there on February 2, 2007. Both Mary Manin Morrissey and Edward Morrissey have injunctions against them, prohibiting them from heading or being agents in nonprofit organizations. Both are also prohibited from selling securities.\n\nMary Morrissey is the author of \"Building Your Field of Dreams\" which chronicles Morrissey's realization of her dream to create a ministry, and \"No Less Than Greatness, The Seven Spiritual Principles that Make Love Possible\" Mary Manin Morrissey also appears in \"The Moses Code\". Mary Morrissey has also authored several audio programs, including the popular co-produced audio, \"The Eleven Forgotten Laws\" with Bob Proctor. Morrissey appeared in the movie \"The Inner Weigh\", written and directed by Dave Smiley. The movie is about tapping into the power of one's subconscious mind to create the body and the life that one wants.\n\nMary Manin Morrissey also operated two companies, \"Life Soulutions\" and \"Evolving Life Ministries\". \"The Oregonian\" reported in 2007, that the organization of Life Soulutions has prompted questions from the state of Oregon because Morrissey's partner, Karen Hanzlik, in the venture receives as much as 40% of revenue, meaning that this portion is not required to be diverted to the restitution fund. \"State officials have asked Morrissey for documents detailing the corporate structure of LifeSoulutions,\" writes \"The Oregonian\". \"Morrissey told them that on the advice of an attorney, there are no such documents. Nothing was put in writing. 'We're researching the law and considering our legal options,' Whang said. 'But it is a very unusual situation.'\" KATU, Portland's ABC affiliate, reports that because Mary Morrissey was permanently prohibited from holding the position of Officer, Financial Manager or Financial Fiduciary for any charitable or religious non-profit entity, her current companies, Life Soulutions, Evolving Life Ministries, and her church in Lake Oswego, Oregon, are operated as for-profit entities. KATU also reports that in an interview Morrissey was evasive about her finances, but the news team tracked online donations to Morrissey's business, discovering they make their way to a Portland mail box controlled by Morrissey. Investigators from the state of Oregon want to make sure that Morrissey is not diverting money from her income, as a stipulation of her plea bargain with the state was that a portion of her income must be used to repay her debt to her former congregation. KATU reported in 2007, that Morrissey has repaid only $74,000 since her plea bargain was struck in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157119", "title": "Andrew Murray, 1st Viscount Dunedin", "text": "Andrew Murray, 1st Viscount Dunedin\n\nAndrew Graham Murray, 1st Viscount Dunedin, (21 November 1849 – 21 August 1942) was a Scottish politician and judge. He served as Secretary for Scotland between 1903 and 1905, as Lord Justice General and Lord President of the Court of Session between 1905 and 1913 and as a Lord of Appeal in Ordinary between 1913 and 1932.\n\nMurray was the son of Thomas Graham Murray and Caroline Jane, daughter of John Tod. His father and grandfather were solicitors, and founding partners of the Edinburgh firm Tods Murray & Jamieson. He was educated at Harrow and Trinity College, Cambridge.\n\nMurray was called to the Scottish Bar in 1874 and became a Queen's Counsel in 1891. The latter year he was also elected Member of Parliament for Bute, a seat he held until 1905, and appointed Solicitor General for Scotland in Lord Salisbury's Conservative administration. The Conservatives lost power in 1892 but when they returned to office in 1895 under Salisbury, Murray was once again made Solicitor-General for Scotland.\n\nIn 1896 he was promoted to Lord Advocate and sworn of the Privy Council. He remained as Lord Advocate when Arthur Balfour became Prime Minister in 1902, but the following year he succeeded Lord Balfour of Burleigh as Secretary for Scotland, with a seat in the cabinet.\n\nIn 1900 he was living at 7 Rothesay Terrace in Edinburgh's fashionable West End.\n\nMurray left the government and parliament in February 1905, on being appointed Lord Justice General and Lord President of the Court of Session. He was raised to the peerage as Baron Dunedin, of Stenton in the County of Perth, on 9 March 1905. He held these posts until 1913, when he was appointed a Lord of Appeal in Ordinary.\n\nDuring his tenure as a Law Lord he gave long majority judgments in cases including Metropolitan Water Board v Dick Kerr & Co Ltd concerning frustration and Tredegar v. Harwood concerning a landlord's liability to insure premises, Ellerman Lines Ltd v Murray on employment law and excessive reliance on a preamble or draft international instrument, Sorrel v Smith concerning the tort of conspiracy to interfere with a trade or calling, Leyland Shipping Co Ltd v Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society Ltd on causation in tort, Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co Ltd v New Garage & Motor Co Ltd on penalty clauses and Plumb v Cobden Flour Mills Co Ltd on employer's liability. In 1923 he was chairman of the Political Honours Review Committee. He retired as a Law Lord in 1932.\n\nApart from his legal and political career, Lord Dunedin was Sheriff of Perthshire between 1890 and 1891 and Lord Lieutenant of Buteshire between 1901 and 1905. He was appointed a Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in 1908 and a Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order in 1922. In 1926 he was further honoured when he was made Viscount Dunedin, of Stenton in the County of Perth.\n\nLord Dunedin was twice married. He married firstly Mary Clementina, daughter of Admiral Sir William Edmonstone, 4th Baronet, in 1874. They had one son and two daughters. After Mary's death in December 1922 he married secondly Jean Elmslie Henderson Findlay, secretary of the Scottish War Savings Committee in WW1, and daughter of George Findlay, in 1923. They had no children. His only son the Hon. Ronald Thomas Graham Murray (1875–1934) was a Major in the Black Watch and fought in the First World War. However, he died married but childless in September 1934, aged 59, predeceasing his father by eight years. Lord Dunedin died in August 1942, aged 92. As he had no surviving male issue both his titles became extinct on his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157120", "title": "Aesculus flava", "text": "Aesculus flava\n\nAesculus flava, the yellow buckeye, common buckeye, or sweet buckeye, is a species of deciduous tree. It is native to the Ohio Valley and Appalachian Mountains of the Eastern United States. It grows in mesophytic forest or floodplains, generally in acid to circumneutral soil, reaching a height of 20m to 48m (65 ft to 154 ft).\n\nThe leaves are palmately compound with five (rarely seven) leaflets, 10–25 cm long and broad. The flowers are produced in panicles in spring, yellow to yellow-green, each flower 2–3 cm long with the stamens shorter than the petals (unlike the related \"A. glabra\" (Ohio buckeye), where the stamens are longer than the petals). The twigs have a faintly rank odor, but much less so than the Ohio buckeye, \"A. glabra\". The fruit is a smooth (spineless), round or oblong capsule 5–7 cm diameter, containing 1-3 nut-like seeds, 2.5-3.5 cm diameter, brown with a whitish basal scar. The fruit is poisonous to humans but can be made edible through a leaching process.\n\n\"Aesculus flava\" is cultivated as an ornamental tree. The tree's showy yellow flowers and good autumn color are attractive in larger gardens and in parks.\nThis plant has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.\n\nNative Americans roasted and soaked the poisonous seeds to remove the toxic element and consume them as food.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157124", "title": "Siddaramaiah", "text": "Siddaramaiah\n\nSiddaramaiah (born 12 August 1948) is an Indian politician who is the Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Legislative assembly and 22nd Chief Minister of Karnataka from 2013 to 2018. he currently serving as the Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Legislative Assembly since from 9 December 2019. Though he resigned from the Opposition Party leader on 09th December 2019, taking the moral responsibility of the party's defeat in the 2019 Karnataka Legislative Assembly by-elections, the party continued him in the same post and as the CLP leader, realizing his popularity in the state. He is a member of Congress Working Committee. Currently a leader of the Indian National Congress party, \n\nSiddaramaiah was a member of various Janata Parivar factions for several years. Earlier, as a Janata Dal (Secular) leader, he was Deputy Chief Minister of Karnataka on two occasions. On 13 May 2013 he was sworn in as the Chief Minister of Karnataka. He is presently continued as the opposition leader of Karnataka despite his resignation, \nwhich was not accepted at higher levels and continued his tenure.\n\nHe was born to Siddarame Gowda and Boramma in a remote village called Siddaramanahundi in Varuna Hobli near to T.Narasipura of Mysore District in a farming family. He had no formal schooling until he was ten but went on to do his B.Sc and Bachelor of Law from Mysore University. He is the second among five siblings and he belongs to Kuruba Gowda community.\n\nSiddaramaiah was a junior under a lawyer, Chikkaboraiah, in Mysore and later taught law for some time.\n\nBefore 1978, he began political career when Nanjunda Swamy, a lawyer in Mysore, spotted him at the district courts as a law graduate. He was asked to contest and was elected to the Mysore Taluka. He contested on a Bharatiya Lok Dal ticket from Chamundeshwari constituency and entered the 7th Karnataka Legislative Assembly in 1983. This was a surprise victory for all and it earned him a lot of name and fame in the Old Mysore region.\n\nLater he joined the ruling Janata Party and became the first president of the Kannada Surveillance Committee (Kannada Kavalu Samiti), set up to supervise the implementation of Kannada as an official language. During the mid-term polls in 1985, Siddaramaiah was re-elected from the same constituency and became Minister for Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services. In Chief Minister Ramakrishna Hegde's government, he handled diverse portfolios such as Sericulture, Animal Husbandry and Transport at different stages.\n\nHe first suffered defeat in the 1989 Assembly elections, beaten by a veteran Congress leader, M. Rajasekara Murthy. Later in 1992, he was appointed as Secretary General of Janata Dal, which H. D. Deve Gowda had also joined. He was elected again in the 1994 State Elections and became the Minister for Finance in the Janata Dal government headed by Deve Gowda. He was made Deputy Chief Minister when J. H. Patel became Chief Minister in 1996. After the split in the Janata Dal, he joined the Janata Dal (Secular) faction of Deve Gowda and became the president of its state unit. However, he lost in the 1999 state elections. In 2004, when the Indian National Congress and JD (S) formed a coalition government with Dharam Singh as Chief Minister, he was again appointed as Deputy Chief Minister.\n\nIn 2005, after differences with H. D. Deve Gowda, Siddaramaiah was expelled from JD (S). He wanted to form a regional party \"ABPJD\" in the state after quitting the JD (S), but he did not because regional parties formed earlier in Karnataka had not survived. He subsequently garnered mass support from the backward classes and joined the Congress at a large public meeting held in Bangalore, in Sonia Gandhi's presence. He won the Chamundeshwari bypolls held in December 2006, by a margin of 257 votes against M. Shivabasappa of JD (S), despite a fierce campaign against him by Deve Gowda, Chief Minister Kumaraswamy and Deputy Chief Minister Yeddyurappa in the constituency. In the 2008 state Assembly elections, he contested from Varuna Constituency and was re-elected for the fifth time.\n\nHe won the 2013 election from the same constituency (Varuna) on 8 May 2013. He was elected as the leader of the Congress legislative party in the Karnataka assembly on 10 May 2013. He had previously announced that the 2013 Assembly election would be his last election, but in the 2018 Karnataka Legislative Assembly election, he left his safe Varuna seat for his son, and he himself went on to contest from two constituencies, i.e. Chamundeshwari and Badami, and faced stiff competition against GT Devegowda of JD (S) and B. Sriramulu of BJP respectively, both of which were new constituencies for him. He lost in Chamundeshwari, but won in Badami vidhan sabha seat beating BJP heavyweight Sriramulu with a narrow margin of 1,696 votes. Congress under his leadership then supported the Janata Dal (Secular) in forming the government in 2018 to keep BJP out of power. He was the chairman of coordination committee that coordinated the congress-JDS coalition govt under H. D Kumarswamy. After the resignation of 17 MLAs, leading to the downfall of the coalition government, Siddaramaiah took the leadership of the upcoming by-elections in Karnataka.\n\nThe by-polls were held on 5 December 2019 for the 15 assembly seats. Though Siddaramaiah expressed his confidence in winning 12 out of the 15 contested seats, Congress managed to win only 2 seats and the JDS winning none of it. This was a major setback for his leadership and differences arouse among his own party members questioning his leadership. Thus Siddaramaiah resigned as the Leader of the CLP and the Leader of opposition of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly on 9 December.\nSiddaramaiah was elected as Chief Minister after Congress adopted secret balloting to select the new chief minister.\nHe led the Indian National Congress to victory by achieving an absolute majority of 122/224 seats in the 2013 Legislative Assembly election.\n\nOn 15 May 2018, he resigned from his position of the chief minister of Karnataka, respecting the verdict of the 2018 Karnataka Legislative Assembly election. He also became the first chief minister of Karnataka to serve full 5 years term in 40 years, and the second in the history of the southern state after Devaraj Urs. He also holds the record of presenting state budget for 13 times as a finance minister in Government of Karnataka. Despite allegations of mounting debt on state exchequer by the opposition, he is known for maintaining fiscal prudence within the ambit of Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act of the state.\n\nSiddaramaiah is married to Parvathi and had two sons, one of whom died in 2016. The surviving son, Yathindra, contested the 2018 Legislative Assembly elections and won from the seat of Varuna in Mysuru, formerly his father’s seat, by over 45,000 votes.\n\nSiddaramaiah has stated on record that he is an atheist, though he has more recently clarified his public stance on the subject: \"Word has spread that I am an atheist, which I am not. I am spiritual -- I have participated in festivities as child. I have visited some of the popular pilgrimage centres. But I am definitely against superstition, as I view everything from science point of view,\".\n\nSiddaramaiah has been accused of protecting a Hong Kong based MLM/Pyramid structure company 'QI Group of Companies' (QNet), headed by Vijay Eswaran. Qnet is declared as a threat to national security by the Serious Frauds Investigation Office (SFIO). Siddaramaiah handed over the diamond-studded Hublot watch allegedly gifted by Vijay Eswaran for facilitating the working of this Direst Selling/MLM company. In September 2013, Siddaramaiah met the absconder Eswaran in China, which was published in Government of Karnataka's Information and Public Relation Departments website in September 11, 2013.\n\nSiddaramaiah compares workers of Janata Dal(Secular) to prostitutes, post collapse of coalition government in Karnataka. \n\n(17 July 2018-9 October 2019)\n\n"}
{"id": "2157125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157125", "title": "Saulheim", "text": "Saulheim\n\nSaulheim is an \"Ortsgemeinde\" – a municipality belonging to a \"Verbandsgemeinde\", a kind of collective municipality – in the Alzey-Worms district in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany.\n\nThe municipality lies in Rhenish Hesse and is the second biggest \"Ortsgemeinde\" in the \"Verbandsgemeinde\" of Wörrstadt, whose seat is in the like-named municipality. It covers an area of 18.94 km² and has a population of 7395 (31 December 2014).\n\nIn 763, Saulheim had its first documentary mention, and is thereby one of the oldest places in Rhenish Hesse.\n\nThe municipality of Saulheim was formed on 7 June 1969 from the two formerly autonomous municipalities of Nieder-Saulheim and Ober-Saulheim.\n\nSome two thirds of the population is Evangelical, while the other third, aside from a few non-religious people, is Catholic. Standing in the municipality are three church buildings, two Evangelical and one Catholic.\n\nThe council is made up of 22 council members, who were elected at the municipal election held on 7 June 2009, and the honorary mayor as chairman.\n\nThe municipal election held on 7 June 2009 yielded the following results:\n\nThe municipality’s arms might be described thus: Gules three moons increscent proper.\n\nThese arms are the same ones formerly borne by Nieder-Saulheim before the merger in 1969. The other arms, shown at left, are Ober-Saulheim’s old arms. They might be blazoned: Azure diapered on a pale Or the Long Stone of Saulheim of the field (see \"Cultural monuments\" below).\n\nOne of Saulheim’s peculiarities is the \"Sängerhalle\" – \"Singers’ Hall\" – built in 1904, which was endowed for his home village by Friedrich Weyerhäuser (1834–1914) who had emigrated to the United States and become successful in the lumber business there.\n\nSaint Bartholomew’s Church (\"Kirche St. Bartholomäus\") comes from the 14th century. Its foundation stone was laid in 1344. It was a successor building to a late mediaeval country church of the Bishop of Mainz. The \"Auferstehungsfenster\" (\"Resurrection Windows\") in the chancel were created by Alois Plum.\n\nAt Raiffeisenplatz stands a figure of red sandstone in the shape of the legendary knight Hundt zu Saulheim (Knightly Canton of Oberrhein), which was erected on 8 May 1987. It was created by Melchior Gresser junior.\n\nOn the L 401 state road overlooking Ober-Saulheim stands the menhir called the \"Langer Stein\" (\"Long Stone\"), which has stood since antiquity, and around which legends swirl. In its upper third was hewn a niche in which to set a Christian image. From its shape, the niche can be reckoned to the Late Gothic period.\n\n\nIn Saulheim is found a public youth meeting centre. In a lavishly carved room the following leisure activities are on offer: billiards, table football, table tennis, 4 Internet-access computers and a music library for both selecting and listening. For active musicians, a music and recording studio is available.\n\nMoreover, there is a Catholic Youth Group (\"Katholische Jugendgruppe\", unaccountably abbreviated \"KJS\").\n\nThis group is made up of several \"group leaders\" who each take a turn staging a group session for youth between 9 and 15 years of age. Once a year, the KJS stages an Easter leisure activity at various self-catering houses. Current information about this can be found on the municipality’s website.\n\nBesides the KJS, Saulheim has a chapter of the Catholic Rural Youth Movement \"Katholischen Landjugendbewegung\" (KLJB). Beyond group sessions, this offers two camps each year, one for children between 7 and 13, and another for youths between 14 and 16. As well, the KLJB offers an autumn leisure activity during the autumn holiday at a self-catering house for participants between 11 and 15. Over the year are scattered even more, smaller events, such as daycare during Advent to relieve parents suffering from Christmas stress.\n\nBoth cropgrowing and winegrowing are done in Saulheim. It has 6.8 km² of vineyards. 24 km² is given over to other agriculture, mainly grain, sugar beet and asparagus.\n\nCurrently, the Commercial Area II (\"Gewerbegebiet II\") with its various shopping facilities is undergoing an expansion.\n\nIn Saulheim is one of DHL’s 33 postal freight centres found throughout Germany. It is the main handling depot for all air mail consignments (through Frankfurt Airport) from southwest Germany.\nSaulheim lies on the railway from Alzey to Mainz and has half-hourly trains. Two interchanges on \"Landesstraße\" (State Road) 401 and an Autobahn interchange on the A 63 between the Mainz and Alzey Autobahn crosses afford the municipality good highway links.\n\nAs well as the Alzey–Mainz service, it is possible to ride the \"Alsace Express\" (\"Elsass-Express\") on weekends and holidays to Wissembourg.\n\nThe municipality has at its disposal five kindergartens. In the constituent community of Nieder-Saulheim is a primary school. It is not possible to attend secondary school in the municipality. That, however, is to be found in Wörrstadt (4 km away), Alzey (19 km), Nieder-Olm (3 km) and Mainz (18 km).\n\nA further educational institution at hand is the \"Volkshochschule Saulheim\", a folk high school. Course offerings range from languages to health to creative design.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157134", "title": "Intelligence specialist", "text": "Intelligence specialist\n\nIntelligence Specialist (IS) is a US Navy enlisted rating within the Information Warfare community. The Intelligence Specialist rating was established in 1975 by combining the Photographic Intelligenceman (PT) rating (first established in 1957) and parts of the Yeoman (YN) rating. As of September 2018, there are roughly 2950 enlisted Intelligence Specialists in the US Navy.\n\nMilitary \"intelligence\" is a discipline utilized to collect information for decision makers within the military. Intelligence Specialists analyze information from all forms of intelligence (OSINT, HUMINT, SIGINT, etc) and interpret their value for decision makers. Intelligence Specialists present their information compiled through intelligence briefings and maps.\n"}
{"id": "2157144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157144", "title": "947 (radio station)", "text": "947 (radio station)\n\n947 (formerly 94.7 Highveld Stereo) is a radio station that broadcasts on the 94.7FM frequency from Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa.\n\nThe station first went on the air on 1 September 1964, as the first SABC regional FM service, \"Radio Highveld\". At that time the station broadcast hourly news bulletins and easy listening music. In September 1996 the SABC sold Radio Highveld to private enterprise.\n\nToday this station, along with a number of other radio stations in South Africa, is owned by Primedia.\n\nOn 1 September 2014 the station decided to drop the logo that they have been using for over a decade. The station is also no longer known as Highveld Stereo as the name changed to being just 947.\n\nAccording to the latest BRC RAM figures shows that 947 has crossed the milestone of 1 million listeners per week. The survey indicated that 947 has 1,055,000 listeners, up from 704,000 year-on-year – a huge leap and one that makes 947 the biggest regional station in Gauteng.\n\nAccording to SAARF, 947 (formerly 94.7 Highveld Stereo) is ranked as South Africa's 15th most listened to radio station, with an average weekly listenership of 1.2 million people.\n\nThe target listener demographic is aimed at 25- to 40-year-olds, and as such the station tends to play contemporary \"soft\" rock, and current pop hits, but has moved away from playing the classic hits, which was consistent with their format up until a programming overhaul in 2010.\n\n947 plays South African Music that record companies push, although the station has refused on many occasions to play any Afrikaans music. Other services to listeners include news bulletins and traffic reports for Johannesburg and Pretoria, although the frequency of these reports have often been criticised by listeners as being too frequent and annoying.\n\nOnce Radio Highveld was sold by the SABC, The \"Rude Awakening\" took over from the Mike Mills Show as the station's breakfast show. The show ran from 1997 to 2010 and featured Jeremy Mansfield as the anchor host, supported by (among others) Sam Cowan, Paul Rotherham, Graeme Joffe, Harry Sideroppolis, and Darren Simpson.\nIn July 2010 Mansfield was stated that \"The show needs to move forward and I don't see a role for myself in the new product offering. Management and the board have asked if I would assist with off air initiatives, which I am happy to do for the foreseeable future.\". The format of the new breakfast show remained largely unchanged with the rest of the original team remaining as is.\n\nOn 2 August 2010 the station revamped the morning show by renaming it \"Breakfast Xpress\" and appointing Darren Simpson as the new front-man in place of Jeremy Mansfield.\nThe show has been criticised for its childish nature, unprofessionalism, and poor production.\nIn 2017, Simpson announced that he will be leaving the breakfast show in order to spend more time with his family, but that he would nonetheless still host the station's drive-time show.\nThis left listeners feeling confused and lied to when they discovered that Simpson was to be the new host of sister station KFM's Breakfast Show as well as the afternoon drive show on 947.\n\nOn 2 March 2017 it was announced that Anele Mdoda will be taking over the Breakfast show from 3 April 2017 with her existing crew – Alex Caige, Thembekile Mrototo, and Cindy Poluta – they welcomed a brand new member to the team: Frankie du Toit.\n\nWEEKDAYS\n\n\nSATURDAYS\n\n\nSUNDAYS\n\nJoburg Day is an annual music festival featuring only local artist from across South Africa.\n\n947 together with Big concerts over the years has brought some of the world's biggest international artists such as Justin Bieber, The Script, Ed Sheeren, Sam Smith, Katy Perry, Guns and Roses, One Direction and One Republic.\n\n947 is the official media partner for Ultra South Africa, Africa's largest electronic music Festival.\n\n947 is well known for sponsoring and promoting many charity and social events in Gauteng, including the Momentum 947 Cycle Challenge and the Rude Awakening Christmas Wish, although their commercial interests are always given priority.\n\nOn Friday, (7 Oct 2016) Darren spoke to Caylum's mother Samantha about Caylum's condition, which is precarious, and the progress of their fundraiser, which had already reached a R4 million. Darren urged any listeners who could, to donate to get Caylum to Boston.\n\nWithin an hour, over R1,5 million had been pledged. Friends of the show including musician Daniel Baron called in as did hundreds of others. Families donated; a man donated his R100 000 nest egg; pensioners; students as well as companies big and small all pledged. By the end of the show, once all the donations have been tallied R3,8 million had been raised, more than double what was needed for this trip to Boston.\n\nThe Breakfast Xpress team visited the residents of Kwaggaspoort to hand over R10 000 worth of products. A further R120 000 in cash and products will also be donated to residents over the next 12 months.\n\nKwaggaspoort Reddingsdaad strives to help those less privileged by providing them with a temporary but safe livelihood until they can become independent members of society. Most people who seek help from Kwaggaspoort Rescue Center have no possessions and are unemployed. Many of them have not eaten in days, some have children with them and quite often, it is the elderly whose family and friends are not able to look after them.\n\nThe Rescue Center consists of three houses which accommodates about 100 people. Over and above, Kwaggaspoort Rescue Center looks after 34 families as well as the elderly by providing them with food, clothing and other basic needs.\n\n947's Darren received a heartwarming email from a caring sister asking the team to please help her ill brother to fulfill his bucket list. Among other things, he would like to meet the 947 Breakfast Xpress team, swim with dolphins, have lunch with Kurt Darren, have a flying experience, going to the planetarium and more. \nWithin a few an hour the city of Joburg came together to tick of his bucket list.\n\n947 also hosts the annual Christmas wish where they help those in need.\n\nIn response to Darren Simpson's parody of South African Deputy President Jacob Zuma's ongoing rape trial of 2006 –for which Zuma was acquitted– Zuma filed a defamation lawsuit on 30 June 2006, for the sum of R 5 million. Zuma originally filed for R 2 million, but this was upped when Highveld Stereo re-broadcast the allegedly offensive skit.\n\nIn early 2008 Highveld together with their sister station Radio 702 submitted a complaint to the South African Human Rights Commission after the Forum of Black Journalists refused \"white\" journalists entry to a lunch with ANC President Jacob Zuma.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157145", "title": "Rollin film", "text": "Rollin film\n\nA Rollin film, named after Bernard V. Rollin, is a 30 nm-thick liquid film of helium in the helium II state. It exhibits a \"creeping\" effect in response to surfaces extending past the film's level (wave propagation). Helium II can escape from any non-closed container via creeping toward and eventually evaporating from capillaries of 10 to 10 meters or greater.\n\nRollin films are involved in the \"fountain effect\" where superfluid helium leaks out of a container in a fountain-like manner. They have high thermal conductivity. \n\nThe ability of superfluid liquids to cross obstacles that lie at a higher level is often referred to as the Onnes effect, named after Heike Kamerlingh Onnes. The Onnes effect is enabled by the capillary forces dominating gravity and viscous forces.\n\nWaves propagating across a Rollin film are governed by the same equation as gravity waves in shallow water, but rather than gravity, the restoring force is the van der Waals force. The film suffers a change in chemical potential when the thickness varies. These waves are known as third sound.\n\nThe thickness of the film can be calculated by the energy balance. Consider a small fluid volume element formula_1 which is located at a height formula_2 from the free surface. The potential energy due to the gravitational force acting on the fluid element is formula_3, where formula_4 is the total density and formula_5 is the gravitational acceleration. The quantum kinetic energy per particle is formula_6, where formula_7 is the thickness of the film and formula_8 is the mass of the particle. Therefore, the net kinetic energy is given by formula_9, where formula_10 is the fraction of atoms which are Bose–Einstein condensate. Minimizing the total energy with respect to the thickness provides us the value of the thickness:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157149", "title": "Thornfalcon", "text": "Thornfalcon\n\nThornfalcon is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated east of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 119. The parish includes the hamlet of Ash. The name comes from Thorn, and the personal name Fagun (now Falcon) which was the Norman surname of Sir Gilbert of Thorn, whose family were lords of the manor until the 14th century.\n\nThe parish of Thorne Falcon was part of the North Curry Hundred. The manor was bought from the Burridges of Lyme Regis by Nathaniel Butler Batten of Yeovil whose descendants, known as Chisholm-Batten from 1859 lived at Court House.\n\nThe village is in the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role includes initiating projects for maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are the council's responsibility.\n\nSomerset County Council runs the largest and most expensive local services, such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThere was a station on the Chard Branch Line that closed in 1962. The road bridge over the line is designated as a Grade II listed building. The village is near the Great Western Railway and the Chard Canal — the road bridge over the canal is also listed.\n\nThe Battlements was built by the Chisholm-Batten family in the early-mid 19th century. It was originally a school building, but is now a private house, whilst the Court House is older, dating from the late 15th century.\n\nThe parish Church of the Holy Cross dates from the 14th century and was restored in 1882 by Benjamin Ferrey. It is designated as a grade I listed building.\n"}
{"id": "2157151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157151", "title": "Costantino Rocca", "text": "Costantino Rocca\n\nCostantino Rocca (born 4 December 1956) is an Italian golfer. He was long known as the most successful male golfer that Italy has produced, until the 2018 success of Francesco Molinari, who credited Rocca as an inspiration to him following his Open victory. After a long career on the European Tour, Constantino is now playing on the European Seniors Tour. He has five European Tour wins and is best known for his second-place finish in the 1995 Open Championship, and his hole in one in 1995 Ryder Cup.\n\nRocca was born in Almenno San Bartolomeo, Bergamo. He started out as a caddie, winning the Italian Caddie Championship in 1978, and turned professional in 1981 at the age of 24.\n\nIn the 1980s, Rocca struggled to retain a European Tour card and made several trips to the Qualifying School. He began to make major strides in his career in 1990, which was the first season that he finished high enough on the Order of Merit to gain a tour card automatically. By 1993, he had risen to sixth in the Order of Merit, and his two best seasons were 1995 and 1996, when he finished fourth. He won five titles on the tour, the first of which was the 1993 Open de Lyon and the most prestigious of which was the 1996 Volvo PGA Championship.\n\nIn the final round of the 1995 Open Championship, Rocca sank a 60-foot (18-metre) putt on the 18th at St Andrews to make birdie and force a four-hole playoff with John Daly, but Daly won the playoff by four strokes. Rocca's second-highest finish in a major was a tie for fifth in the 1997 Masters Tournament; he was in the final pairing on Sunday, having begun the final round in second place, nine shots behind 21-year-old Tiger Woods, and he finished fifteen behind Woods.\n\nRocca was the first Italian to play for Europe in the Ryder Cup, and remained the only Italian to do so until 2010, when Francesco Molinari qualified for the Ryder Cup held in Celtic Manor and Edoardo Molinari was a captain's pick. He appeared in 1993, 1995 and 1997, and had a 6-5-0 win-loss-half record, including 1 win and 2 losses in singles matches. That one singles win came in a crucial match against Tiger Woods in the 1997 Ryder Cup at Valderrama, which Rocca won 4 & 2 to help Europe claim the cup. The victory against Woods was one of Woods' first losses in singles play. His 53% winning record in the Cup is one of the best in European team history. During the 1995 Ryder Cup, Rocca made a hole-in-one on Oak Hill's sixth hole, only the third ace in Ryder Cup history. In 1999, Rocca almost qualified for the Ryder Cup again after he won the West of Ireland Golf Classic.\n\nThe 2001 European Tour season was the last in which Rocca finished inside the top hundred on the Order of Merit, though the remained exempt through 2006 due to his 1996 Volvo PGA Championship win. He made his European Seniors Tour debut at the 2007 Sharp Italian Seniors Open, and won his first senior tournament two weeks later at the Irish Seniors Open. He ended 2008 with a record seven top finishes and ranked ninth in the Order of Merit. His best placing was tied third in the Azores Senior Open.\n\nRocca played his last European Tour event in 2015 at the Italian Open, an event he played in 33 times but never won.\n\nRocca is married and has two children, Francesco and Chiara.\n\nIn 2008, Rocca opened his own golf academy, the Costantino Rocca Golf Academy, at Golf Club Gerre Losone in Switzerland.\n\nHe is friends with golfing great Gary Player and plays in his Gary Player Invitational charity event to help raise money for underprivileged children around the world.\n\nDual-ranking event with the Challenge Tour\n\nEuropean Tour playoff record (1–1)\n\"All in Italy except where noted.\"\n\nEuropean Senior Tour playoff record (0–1)\n\nJapan Golf Tour playoff record (0–1)\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157154", "title": "Tolland, Somerset", "text": "Tolland, Somerset\n\nTolland is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated north west of Taunton, between the Brendon Hills and Quantock Hills, in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The parish has a population of 81.\n\nThe parish of Tolland was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nTolland County in Connecticut, USA is named after the village. The connection was Henry Wolcott who emigrated to America and founded a prominent family which included Oliver Wolcott who signed the United States Declaration of Independence.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nGaulden Manor to the southeast was built in the 16th century and has been designated as a Grade II* listed building, also the 13th century church set in the woods at the south end of the village.\n\nThe Church of St John the Baptist was built in the 13th century and remodelled in 1871. The church was given to the Knights Hospitaller to support Buckland Priory, Durston in 1180. After the dissolution of the monasteries in 1539 the property was held by the crown.\n"}
{"id": "2157164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157164", "title": "Trull", "text": "Trull\n\nTrull is a village, electoral ward and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated near Taunton. The parish which includes Dipford has a population of 2,288.\n\nThe name Trull is thought to derive from the word \"Trendle\" meaning circle or wheel.\n\nThe parish of Trull was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nAll Saints Church has a tower dating from the 13th century; the rest is 15th-century. It was served by the monks of Taunton Priory until 1308. The east window, dating from the 15th century, depicts the crucifixion with St John and the Mother of Jesus at the foot of the Cross. The pulpit is believed to date from around 1500. The building has been designated by English Heritage as a Grade I listed building.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157169", "title": "United Nations Capital Development Fund", "text": "United Nations Capital Development Fund\n\nThe United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) The UN Capital Development Fund makes public and private finance work for the poor in the world's 47 least developed countries (LDCs).\n\nWith its capital mandate and instruments, UNCDF offers “last mile” finance models that unlock public and private resources, especially at the domestic level, to reduce poverty and support local economic development. This last mile is where available resources for development are scarcest; where market failures are most pronounced; and where benefits from national growth tend to leave people excluded.\n\nUNCDF's financing models work through two channels: savings-led financial inclusion that expands the opportunities for individuals, households, and small businesses to participate in the local economy, providing them with the tools they need to climb out of poverty and manage their financial lives; and by showing how localized investments—through fiscal decentralization, innovative municipal finance, and structured project finance—can drive public and private funding that underpins local economic expansion and sustainable development. UNCDF financing models are applied in thematic areas where addressing barriers to finance at the local level can have a transformational effect for poor and excluded people and communities.\n\nBy strengthening how finance works for poor people at the household, small enterprise, and local infrastructure levels, UNCDF contributes to SDG 1 on eradicating poverty with a focus on reaching the last mile and addressing exclusion and inequalities of access. At the same time, UNCDF deploys its capital finance mandate in line with SDG 17 on the means of implementation, to unlock public and private  nance for the poor at the local level. By identifying those market segments where innovative financing models can have transformational impact in helping to reach the last mile, UNCDF contributes to a number of different SDGs and currently to 28 of 169 targets.\n\nEstablished by the General Assembly in 1966 and with headquarters in New York City, UNCDF is an autonomous UN organization affiliated with UNDP.\n\nThe original UNCDF mandate from the UN General Assembly (UNGA) is to “\"assist developing countries in the development of their economies by supplementing existing sources of capital assistance by means of grants and loans\"” (General Assembly Resolution 2186, 13 December 1966). The mandate was modified in 1973 to serve first and foremost but not exclusively the LDCs.\n\nThe current Executive Secretary of UNCDF is Judith Karl.\n\nCreated by the General Assembly in 1966 to promote economic development, UNCDF officially was established as an \"autonomous organization within the United Nations\" with the purpose to \"assist developing countries in the development of their economies by supplementing existing sources of capital assistance by means of grants and loans\".\n\nIn 1973, the Governing Council reorients UNCDF's activities towards \"first and foremost the least developed among the developing countries\" and it began focusing on the world's least developed countries in 1974.\n\nFor the next twenty years, UNCDF financed stand-alone capital infrastructure—roads, bridges, irrigation schemes—mostly in Africa. It received about $40 million in core funding per year and operated out of UNDP country offices.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, UNCDF began focusing on the role local governments could play in planning, financing, and maintaining capital investments. Promoting effective infrastructure investment and service delivery via decentralized public financial management has been UNCDF's mainstay ever since. UNCDF's other major area of expertise—microfinance—also dates to the mid-1990s, when many of its rural development projects had credit components.\n\nUNCDF's resources remain modest compared to many multilateral organizations. However, it has developed a considerable track record of going where others do not, and then “leveraging in” larger sources of public and private capital. In the words of a 2008 assessment by the Government of Sweden, “\"UNCDF should be seen as a development actor that paves the way for others, rather than a financing mechanism.\"”\n\nIn 2013, UNCDF received the highest score in the SmartAid for Microfinance Index, a measure of overall effectiveness in microfinance.\n\nUNCDF today operates in 31 of the world's 47 least developed countries. 70 percent of its portfolio is in Africa. On 13 December 2016, UNCDF commemorated its 50th Anniversary.\n"}
{"id": "2157178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157178", "title": "Delta–Mendota Canal", "text": "Delta–Mendota Canal\n\nThe Delta–Mendota Canal is a aqueduct in central California, United States. The canal was designed and completed in 1951 by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation as part of the Central Valley Project to supply freshwater to users downstream of the San Joaquin River. Freshwater is diverted into the Madera Canal and Friant-Kern Canal at Friant Dam.\n\nThe canal begins in the Northwestern region of the San Joaquin Valley, and east of the Cascade made from mostly concrete and a slope of 3 inches per mile. At the C.W. Bill Jones Pumping Plant (formerly the Tracy Pumping Plant), roughly of water is obtained from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta. The canal runs southward along the western edge of the San Joaquin Valley, parallel to the California Aqueduct, and diverges to the east after passing the San Luis Reservoir, receiving more water and eventually emptying into the San Joaquin River near the city of Mendota. The canal travels through 6 state counties, Alameda, San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Merced, and Fresno counties.\n\nClifton Court Forebay provides added water to the flow of the canal.\n\nAfter years of drought, the state of California highlighted the importance of a large-scale water project, thus creating the California State Water Plan, but eventually being taken over by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in 1931 due to the Great Depression. In 1937 the Central Valley Project (CVP) was approved by Congress to deliver freshwater throughout the San Joaquin Valley. The Friant-Kern Canal east of Fresno was built to distribute water through the eastern parts of the Central Valley, however, altered the natural flows of the San Joaquin River between the Friant Dam and confluence of the Merced River.  The Delta–Mendota Canal was approved for the exchange of water rights in the downstream portion of the San Joaquin River. With the use of the Tracy Pumping Plant, water from the Sacramento River would be diverted into the Delta–Mendota Canal. The United States Bureau of Reclamation and the San Luis Delta Mendota Water Authority are responsible for maintaining the water quality that is discharged at the south end of the canal. The Delta–Mendota Canal is also a key feature to the Delta Division Project which is managed by the Bureau of Reclamation, to minimize salt intrusion from the San Francisco Bay.\n\nDue to the length of the canal, it required several contracts to complete the construction. The first contracts given by the Bureau of Reclamation were to the Morrison Knudsen Company, Inc., and the M.H. Hasler Construction Company, who worked on the stations 185+00-231+00 and 243+00-774+00 Next series of contracts were awarded to Hubert H. Everist for station 686+00-1365+00, and workers went on strike against the subcontractor Fred J. Maurer and Son. Other contractors were the Columbia Pumping Plant, Mowry Pumping Plant, United Concrete Pipe Corporation, Western Contracting Corporation, A. Teichert & Sons, Inc. General work shifts consisted of 3 daily shifts, twenty-one hours a day, 6 days a week.\n\nThe pumping plants in the Delta Division have serious impacts on the flow of the Delta and San Joaquin River Basin. During relatively dry years and a high exportation rate, flow of the San Joaquin River has been reversed. This flow reversal confuse migratory fish, and bring saline water.\n\nAn important feature of the Central Valley Project (CVP), with regards to directing water southward through the Delta–Mendota Canal is the C.W. Bill Jones Pumping Plant, formerly known as the Tracy Pumping Plant (TPP). The pumping station is 60 miles (96 km) to the southeast from the City of San Francisco, in the rural community of Byron, California, near the city of Tracy. Water is extracted from the southern portion of the San Joaquin Delta, and pumped to contractors in the San Joaquin Valley, San Benito and Santa Clara counties to meet urban and agricultural demands. Nearly 200 feet of water is extracted from the Delta per day, and with the use of two 15 foot diameter pipes, six 22,500-horsepower motors, roughly 8,500 Acre-feet (AF) of water can be transported southward daily. The plant is named to honor a pioneer in water management for the San Joaquin Valley, and was president of the San Luis and Delta-Mendota Water Association for two decades.\n\nThe water is pumped from the canal into O'Neill Forebay, and then is pumped into San Luis Reservoir by the Gianelli Pumping-Generating Plant. Occasionally, water from O'Neill Forebay is released into the canal. The Delta–Mendota Canal ends at Mendota Pool, on the San Joaquin River near the city of Mendota, west of Fresno. The Delta–Mendota Canal capacity is and gradually decreases to at its terminus.Average annual throughput is .\n\nIn order to improve water delivery in the State of California, an intertie, which is defined as a connection between 2 or more current utilities, was constructed between the Delta–Mendota Canal and the California Aqueduct. The Intertie was constructed in the rural agricultural region of the southwestern portion of the San Joaquin Valley in Alameda County, near the city of Tracy, California. A series of two 108 inch diameter pipes of 500 feet in length connect the state managed California Aqueduct and the federally managed Delta–Mendota Canal. The pipes have a capacity to pump 467 cubit feet of water per second from the California Aqueduct to the Delta–Mendota Canal. This amount of water restores 35,000 acre feet of water annually to the Central Valley Project. The pumps use vertical power, which are more efficient than horizontal pumps, as it removes the need for a gearbox, as well as requires less maintenance and space. The four pumping units are from Cascade Pump Company from Santa Fe Springs, California, Pump Model 48MF with a 48-inch diameter discharge, with the capability to pump 55,125 gallons per minute. Due to the structural deficiencies of the C.W. Bill Jones Pumping Plant, The Intertie improves the overall water delivery system, and allows maintenance and emergencies to be addressed easier. Completion of the project was April 2012. The cost of construction was an estimated $29 million, and will be repaid by the contractors who purchase water.\n\nAnother key feature of the Central Valley Project (CVP), is the Tracy Fish Collection Facility. In order to protect threatened and endangered species, a series of sloughs, channels, and tanks, help capture the fish and safely reintroduce them into the Delta waterways. Constructed in the 1950s, its objective is to protect aquatic fauna from being injured or killed by the pumps that facilitate water to the south of the state. The facility is roughly 1 km east from the Pumping Plant, and became operational 1957. Most common fish species safely moved through the series of louvers are American shad, Splittail, White Catfish, Delta smelt, Chinook salmon, and Striped bass. Historical trends show a decrease in efficient fish diversion, and it is believed due to poor water quality, increased water pollution, changes in water operations, and change of water demands for the various water users. Due to those reasons, a new fish facility is being designed.\n\nLand Subsidence is prevalent throughout the San Joaquin Valley, but was unrecognized prior to the construction of the canal. After construction, discrepancies in elevation were believed to be caused by earthquake. Post construction years, the southern 30–40 miles of the canal exceeded subsidence of 6 feet. Nearly two-thirds of the canal has been impacted by subsidence, over 20 miles of the concrete lined canal, and all the earth lined portion. By 1966, 35 miles demonstrated a drop of 1 feet, 3 feet elevation drop in 15 mile stretch, 5 foot decrease in a 5-mile portion, and 2 feet of the canal demonstrated a drop of 6 feet. Land subsidence in the region is due to constant over-drafting of underground water. Another key factor is due to the San Joaquin Valley's geomorphological structure, having young continental, unconsolidated sandy-silty-clayish soils, resting on old unconsolidated marine beds.\n\nImpacts of the land subsidence lead to a decrease between bridges and water level surface. In regions of greater subsidence, portions of bridges, pipes, and cattle guards would be inundated. Fortunately land subsidence has not led to a decrease in total water capacity, and no negative impact on the integrity of the structure of the canal.\n\nThe U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Reclamation evaluated the ability to improve water quality, energy consumption and production, productive fisheries, and flow to the San Joaquin River with the use of recirculation strategies using the Central Valley Project facilities. The Recirculation Feasibility Study Project was authorized by CALFED (California Federal Bay-Delta Program) Bay-Delta Authorization Act of 2004 (118 Stat. §§ 1681–1702.; Public Law 108-361). History has shown that low precipitation patterns can lead to pumping stations reversing the flow in the San Joaquin River, that negatively impacts fish migration patterns.\n\nFishing access is provided in Canal Site 2A in Stanislaus County and Canal Site 5 in Fresno county, both providing parking and restrooms. Many use the gravel road adjacent to the canal for biking and walking. No water-contact activities aside from fishing are allowed.\n"}
{"id": "2157184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157184", "title": "Ludwigia helminthorrhiza", "text": "Ludwigia helminthorrhiza\n\nLudwigia helminthorrhiza, known commonly as floating Ludwigia, originally known as Jussiaea natans \"Bonpl.\" or Jussiaea helminthorrhiza \"C. Martius\" is a herbaceous perennial plant of the family Onagraceae. Native to south Mexico, Colombia and South America, its habitat includes wet, swampy localities.\n\n\"Ludwigia helminthorrhiza\" grows from the water's edge into the water and along the stem and roots develops 1 - 1.2 cm long white rootlets which function as floating bodies to keep the main plant floating on the surface. At each nodus, the plant may develop roots, which may reach through the water to the bottom of the water. The flowers have white petals and oval to almost round shaped leaves.\n"}
{"id": "2157185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157185", "title": "West Bagborough", "text": "West Bagborough\n\nWest Bagborough is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated north of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 358.\n\nThe village lies on the south-west slopes of the Quantock Hills and combines with the neighbouring hamlets of Shopnoller, Seven Ash and Westwood to form the parish of West Bagborough. The village has a wide variety of properties, with a wide range of building techniques and ages. Due to its availability, local red sandstone features heavily in buildings, both ancient and modern. The village has a 16th-century inn (the \"Rising Sun\"), a village hall, and a number of establishments offering accommodation.\n\nThe origin of the village name is open to some debate and is thought to either come from the name \"Begas Barrow\" (meaning badger's hill) or from an amalgamation of the family name \"Baga\" and the Old English word for hill, \"beorg\". In either case, by 1086, when the Domesday Book was compiled, the name had become Bageberge.\n\nAround Wills Neck and the Triscombe Stone are several bowl barrows and cairns dating from the Bronze Age.\n\nThe parish of West Bagborough was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nEnclosure of lands within the parish was authorised by an Act of Parliament in 1806.\n\nIn October 2001 a hoard of 4th-century Roman silver was discovered in the village. The 681 coins included two denarii from the early 2nd century and eight miliarense and 671 siliqua all dating from the period AD 337 – 367. The majority were struck in the reigns of emperors Constantius II and Julian and derive from a range of mints including Arles and Lyons in France, Trier in Germany and Rome. It became known as the West Bagborough Hoard.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe village church of St Pancras, dates from the 15th century, with the north aisle being added in 1839, and further restoration in 1872. It has been designated by English Heritage as a Grade II* listed building. Further work was undertaken in the 1920s under the guidance of Sir Ninian Comper. The church stands high above the main village, and allegedly owes this separation to the Black Death, which reduced the population to below one hundred souls in the fourteenth century. In an attempt to rid themselves of this plague the villagers abandoned the original settlement and re-built, away from the church. The lychgate is dedicated to the memory of Robert Brooke-Popham.\n\nThe old rectory is now known as Little Court.\n\nBagborough House was built in 1739 by the Popham family, enlarged in 1820 and 1900, and is now lived in by Diana and Philip Brooke-Popham.\n"}
{"id": "2157188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157188", "title": "West Buckland", "text": "West Buckland\n\nWest Buckland is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated south west of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The parish has a population of 1,189.\n\nIn 904, certain lands were the basis of a charter to Asser, Bishop of Sherborne, later confirmed in 908. It is thought that Buckland was perhaps known then as Bocland; the name for ‘chartered land’. Following this charter, or even earlier, the name West Buckland was established. But why West was added is unknown – perhaps to distinguish it from Buckland St Mary to the east.\n\nThe parish of West Buckland was part of the Kingsbury Hundred.\n\nBuckland or Minchin Buckland Priory was founded as a house of St John the Baptist around 1166 for Augustinian canons. The buildings burned down in 1234.\n\nGerbestone Manor was largely rebuilt in the late 16th century, although some fabric from the 13th century house remains. It is a Grade II* listed building. The house has been owned by a succession of families of local gentry and is now used as a wedding venue and for corporate events. The main two-storey chert stone building is accompanied by various outbuildings including barns and a mill.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the Non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, having formally been a part of Taunton Deane which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and having previously been part of Wellington Rural District. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nThe appropriate electoral ward is called 'Monument'. Although \"West Buckland\" is the most populous area the ward goes west to Sampford Arundel. The total population of this ward taken at the 2011 Census was 2,184.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe parish Church of St Mary has 13th-century origins and has been designated as a Grade I listed building.\n"}
{"id": "2157198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157198", "title": "West Hatch", "text": "West Hatch\n\nWest Hatch is a hamlet and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated south east of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. It has a population of 306.\n\nThe name of the hamlet indicates it lies to the west of Hatch Beauchamp.\n\nThe parish of West Hatch was part of the North Curry Hundred. The manor, along with North Curry, was granted to the Bishop of Wells by Richard I in 1189 and then to the dean and chapter of Wells Cathedral.\n\nWest Hatch has been the home of an RSPCA Little Creech centre since 1963, when the 17th century farm was purchased for the charity. A new purpose-built centre was constructed in 1997. During the cleanup operation after the beaching of the MSC \"Napoli\" cargo ship off the coast of Devon in January 2007, the majority of seabirds covered in oil were sent to the West Hatch RSPCA to be cleaned. It is one of two RSPCA centres in the UK used for this purpose and its work is often featured on national television.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe hamlet falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe parish Church of St Andrew dates from the 15th century, but was extensively restored in 1861 when the north aisle and probably the vestry and organ bay were added by Benjamin Ferrey. The church was rededicated by Bishop Jim Thompson on 10 May 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157202", "title": "John Winebrenner", "text": "John Winebrenner\n\nJohn Winebrenner (March 25, 1797 – September 12, 1860), founded the Churches of God General Conference.\nWinebrenner was born in Walkersville, Maryland. He studied at Dickinson College, Carlisle, Pennsylvania, and was ordained in the German Reformed Church in 1820. He pastored at Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, where his revival preaching and his \"Revival Hymn-Book\" (1825) brought about a break between his followers and the Reformed Church. \n\nHis Christian testimony can be found in the book \"The Testimony of a Hundred Witnesses\" (1858) edited by John Frederick Weishampel. In 1830, he and five other ministers founded the Church of God (whose members are sometimes called \"Winebrennerians\") He served as speaker at the first eldership and subsequently edited and published the Church of God paper, first called \"The Gospel Publisher\" (1835-1845 and later \"The Church Advocate\" (beginning in 1845).\n\nHe died in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and was interred at the Harrisburg Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157204", "title": "West Monkton", "text": "West Monkton\n\nWest Monkton is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated north east of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The parish includes the hamlets of Monkton Heathfield, Bathpool, and Burlinch and the western parts of Coombe and Walford, and had a population of 2,787 at the 2011 census.\n\nThe charter for West Monkton was given to Glastonbury Abbey by the Saxon king Centwine in 682. The monks from the abbey gave the village its name Monkton, and it was called West as being west of the other estates of the abbey.\n\nThe parish of West Monkton was part of the Whitley Hundred.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the monasteries the manor was granted to William Paulet, Marquess of Winchester, passing in 1616 to the Warres of Hestercombe and in 1872 to Viscount Portman of Orchard Portman.\n\nMilling at Bathpool in the River Tone had a chequered history. There had been a mill at this location for several centuries, which had been rebuilt or adapted as required. In March 1812, the structure was burnt down by a fire, caused, according to the \"Taunton Courier\", by \"\"the excessive friction excited in the stones used in the process of shelling clover seeds\"\". Stocks of flour, grain and flax valued at £2,500 were destroyed. The mill was rebuilt and later owned by Captain George Beadon. The mill was purchased by Thomas Redler in 1889 on the death of Beadon, but another fire damaged much of it two years later. Redler rebuilt it with safety in mind, and installed a steam-driven turbine as water levels were often inadequate to power the wheels. Two more turbines followed, and the water wheels were removed. Steam from the turbines was also used to heat bread ovens, which were amongst the first in the country to be heated in this way. In September 1915, another fire gutted the building, which was not rebuilt, and the ruins were demolished in the 1920s.\n\nIn the 1820s the Bridgwater and Taunton Canal was constructed. The work included the construction of several bridges to carry roads over the canal, one of which is now the A38 road. During the restoration of the canal in the 1980s the condition of the swing bridge at Bathpool caused a change in policy. There were objections to the plan to replace it with a fixed bridge with limited headroom, and the planning application was deferred.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nThere is an electoral ward with the same name. Although \"West Monkton\" parish covers certain additional hamlets the ward extends to Cheddon Fitzpaine. The total population of the ward at the 2011 census was 4,304.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nWithin the parish is Hestercombe House and gardens designed by Sir Edwin Lutyens. Its restoration to Gertrude Jekyll's original plans (1904–07) have made it \"one of the best Jekyll-Lutyens gardens open to the public on a regular basis\", visited by approximately 70,000 people per year. The estate is Grade I listed on the English Heritage Register of Parks and Gardens of Special Historic Interest in England. The site also includes a 0.08 hectare biological Site of Special Scientific Interest as it is used as a roost site by Lesser Horseshoe Bats and has been designated as a Special Area of Conservation (SAC). The house was used as the headquarters of the British 8th Corps in the Second World War, and has been owned by Somerset County Council since 1951.\n\nWalford house was built in the late 18th century but in 1985 was converted into flats. It is a Grade II* listed building.\n\nCreech Castle was built around 1850 and was the home of the Beadon family, but has since been converted into a hotel. It is named after the characteristic shaped hill opposite it.\nMonkton Heathfield is home to Heathfield Community School a state secondary school with 1,181 students aged 11 – 16 and has an Arts College specialist status.\n\nThe parish church of St Augustine has an 88-foot tower, four stories, with no pinnacles or fancy tracery on the windows, giving the tower a slender, austere look compared to the medieval Somerset towers of churches in nearby Taunton, for example. Nikolaus Pevsner proposes that St Augustine's tower is older than the surrounding church towers, with a tower arch that may date to 1300 as part of a previous church building. The churchyard includes a stocks and whipping post under a canopy.\n\nWest Monkton is home to the West Monkton Cricket Club, who play on Saturdays in the 1st and 4th divisions of the West Somerset Cricket League.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157205", "title": "Wiveliscombe", "text": "Wiveliscombe\n\nWiveliscombe (, ) is a small town and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated west of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The town has a population of 2,893. The Square, fronted by several listed structures, held the former market. The parish includes the nearby hamlet of Maundown.\n\nSettlement in the neighborhood is of long standing. The Neolithic hillfort at King's Castle is east of the town. North west of the town is Clatworthy Camp, an Iron Age hill fort. Nearby is Elworthy Barrows, an unfinished Iron Age hill fort, rather than Bronze Age barrows. A rectangular enclosure south of Manor Farm is the remains of a Roman fort; in the 18th century its vestiges of fortifications and foundations were identified as being of Roman origin, and it was locally called \"the Castle\". In the 18th century a hoard of about 1600 Roman coins of third and fourth century dates was uncovered.\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon settlement, the \"combe\" or valley of a certain Wifele, was mentioned in the Domesday survey (1086), when it was quite large, consisting of twenty-seven households, with an annual value to the lord, the Bishop of Wells St Andrew, of £25. During the Middle Ages the bishops maintained a residence here.\n\nThe parish of Wiveliscombe was part of the Kingsbury Hundred.\n\nThe Town Hall was built in 1840 by Somerset surveyor Richard Carver for Lord Ashburton. It housed a fish market, a butchers’ market and a pig market with an assembly room above them. It is a Grade II listed building. It was bought by The Cooperative Society in 1929 and converted to shops, the hall being left unused. By 2010, plans were drawn up for the creation there of an Arts, Media, Cultural and Heritage Venue. The Abbotsfield cottages were built by businessman Lukey Collard in the 1870s; they became a Grade II listed building in 1975.\n\nIn 2010 a new 10 Parishes Centre was announced which will provide a new community facility alongside the Children’s Centre being built at Croft Way.\n\nThe town council (which is a parish council) has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The town council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The town council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe town falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Wellington Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nThere is an electoral ward named 'Wiveliscombe and West Deane'. This extends in a southerly direction from Wiveliscombe to Stawley. The total population of the ward as at the 2011 census was 3,900.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nWiveliscombe is a former borough, market and cloth making town, from the border between Devon and Somerset. It is situated at the foot of the Brendon Hills and acts as a gateway to Exmoor. At an altitude of Wiveliscombe is the highest town in Somerset.\n\nThe town used to have a station on the Devon and Somerset Railway which closed in 1966. Clatworthy Reservoir is nearby.\n\nThe town's population in 1777 was 1,533. While the modern population of 2,893 is small for a town, its shops and services meet the needs of a much larger population, spread through the western fifth of Taunton Deane, in scattered farms and villages. A survey in 1997 revealed that there were at least 300 businesses within a radius of the town; 14 of these were trading internationally and a further 20 nationally. Wiveliscombe is also home to two breweries, Cotleigh Brewery and Exmoor Ales. It is also one of the first towns in the UK to set up a completely free goods and services exchange forum for the local ten parishes area.\n\nThe community radio station \"10Radio\" is based in the town, serving the community of the ten parishes from which its name is derived. 105.3FM in the local area and via the internet at www.10radio.org.\n\nThe previous parish church was valued in 1292 at 12 marks. The present church, dedicated to St Andrew, is a grade II* listed building. It was built in 1827-9; the architect was Richard Carver who had it built from red sandstone with Hamstone dressings. Its octagonal font originated in the 14th century, and in the churchyard is a 14th-century sandstone cross.\n\nThe oldest place of worship in Wiveliscombe is the Congregational Chapel in Silver Street, built in 1708 as the Independent Chapel. It joined the Congregational Union of England and Wales in 1838, and is now used by the Wiveliscombe Evangelical Congregational Church. This chapel was built because the Independent Meeting House (built in 1689 after the Act of Toleration) had become too small. This earlier Meeting House was demolished sometime after the First World War, when North Street Motors was built on the site. This has now closed, and the premises are currently being used as a garden shop.\n\nWiveliscombe Primary School serves most of the surrounding villages. Kingsmead School, for pupils aged 11 to 16, houses a Theatre and Sports Hall and a youth club complementing the town's Recreation Ground where the Tennis, Rugby, Cricket and Football Clubs have their bases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157206", "title": "Franz Hartmann", "text": "Franz Hartmann\n\nFranz Hartmann (22 November 1838, Donauwörth – 7 August 1912, Kempten im Allgäu) was a German medical doctor, theosophist, occultist, geomancer, astrologer, and author. \n\nHartmann was an associate of Helena Blavatsky and was Chairman of the Board of Control of the Theosophical Society Adyar. He collaborated with the mystic Carl Kellner. He published the journals \"Lotusblüthen\" (1893-1900) and \"Neue Lotusblüten\" (1908-1913). He wrote articles on yoga and popularized the subject within Germany.\n\nHe has been described as \"one of the most important theosophical writers of his time\". His works include several books on esoteric studies and biographies of Jakob Böhme and Paracelsus. He translated the \"Bhagavad Gita\" into German and was the editor of the journal \"Lotusblüten\". He was at one time a co-worker of Helena Blavatsky at Adyar. In 1896 he founded a German Theosophical Society. He also supported the Guido-von-List-Society (\"Guido-von-List-Gesellschaft\").\n\nAccording to Theodor Reuss he was one of the original founders of the magical order that would later be known as Ordo Templi Orientis, along with Reuss and Carl Kellner.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157207", "title": "Dinosaur Valley State Park", "text": "Dinosaur Valley State Park\n\nDinosaur Valley State Park is a state park near Glen Rose, Texas, United States.\n\nDinosaur Valley State Park, located just northwest of Glen Rose in Somervell County, Texas, is a scenic park set astride the Paluxy River. The land for the park was acquired from private owners under the State Parks Bonds Program during 1968 and opened to the public in 1972. In addition to being a state park, it is also a National Natural Landmark.\n\nEastward-dipping limestones, sandstones, and mudstones of the Glen Rose Formation were deposited during the early Cretaceous Period approximately 113 million years ago along the shorelines of an ancient sea, and form the geological setting for the park area. Over the last million years or so, these layered formations have been eroded, dissected and sculpted by the Paluxy River which, in many places, has cut down to resistant beds and planed off sizable exposures of rock in the river bottom.\n\nNear Dinosaur Valley State Park, in the limestone deposits along the Paluxy River, \"twin sets\" of tracks were found in the Glen Rose Formation as early as 1908. These footprints were once thought to be evidence that humans and non-avian dinosaurs lived at the same time, but now are identified to be created by dinosaurs. However, young-Earth creationists continue to believe that humans and non-avian dinosaurs lived at the same time, a notion that is contrary to the standard view of the geological time scale. Biologist Massimo Pigliucci has noted that geologists in the 1980s \"clearly demonstrated that no human being left those prints,\" but rather \"they were in fact metatarsal dinosaur tracks, together with a few pure and simple fakes.\"\n\nThe family of George Adams, who claimed to have found human footprints in the Glen Rose Formation, later admitted that Adams' and some others' fossil footprints were a hoax. Zana Douglas, the granddaughter of George Adams, explained that during the 1930s' Great Depression her grandfather and other residents of Glen Rose made money by making moonshine and selling \"dinosaur fossils\". The faux fossils brought $15 to $30 and when the supply ran low, they \"just carved more, some with human footprints thrown in.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157208", "title": "David Ross (Continental Congress)", "text": "David Ross (Continental Congress)\n\nDavid Ross (February 12, 1755 – 1800) was an American planter and lawyer from Frederick County, Maryland. He served as a major in the Continental Army in 1777. He was a delegate for Maryland to the Continental Congress from 1787 until 1789.\n"}
{"id": "2157213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157213", "title": "United Nations Research Institute for Social Development", "text": "United Nations Research Institute for Social Development\n\nThe United Nations Research Institute for Social Development (UNRISD) is \"an autonomous research institute within the United Nations that undertakes multidisciplinary research and policy analysis on the social dimensions of contemporary development issues”. UNRISD was established in 1963 with the mandate of conducting policy-relevant research on social development that is pertinent to the work of the United Nations Secretariat, regional commissions and specialized agencies, and national institutions.\n\nA small team of researchers coordinates UNRISD’s research programmes, which focus primarily on the developing world, working in collaboration with national research teams from local universities and research institutes. The Institute’s work takes a holistic, multidisciplinary and political economy approach. UNRISD’s location at the United Nations Office at Geneva gives researchers access to channels of policy influence through active participation in events, meetings, conferences and working groups.\n\nUNRISD was established in 1963 “to conduct research into problems and policies of social development, and relationships between various types of social development and economic development”. It was originally set up with a grant from the Government of the Netherlands, and its first Board Chair was the eminent economist Jan Tinbergen, who received the first-ever Nobel prize for economics in 1969.\n\nUNRISD’s initial research focused on the design of indicators to measure development not just in terms of economic growth but also social factors, such as nutrition, health and education. As such, it employed many statisticians in its early years. Another early project focused on cooperatives as a tool for development, which produced some controversial results.\n\nIn the 1970s, global population growth made food production, supply and eventually food systems into a key topic in development. UNRISD’s work on the so-called Green Revolution (the introduction of newly bred high-yield grain seeds to increase food production) took a typically critical view. It highlighted the fact that the quantity of food available was only one factor in ensuring populations in developing countries were not subject to hunger. Power inequalities impacting on the distribution of foodstuffs played a key role in determining who got enough to eat and who didn’t.\n\nBy the 1980s, UNRISD was growing in size, in terms of both funding and staffing. Its remit diversified to cover popular participation and refugee issues, gradually leaving some of its early preoccupation with statistics behind.\n\nIn the 1990s UNRISD thrived. A wide range of topics were addressed, ranging from political violence to the socioeconomic impact of illicit drugs. Globalization in the modern era and structural adjustment programmes in developing countries brought about social crises which UNRISD researched and criticized, arguing that unregulated markets required a healthy public sector and stable governance to function properly.\n\nEnvironmental issues took firm root in development debates during this decade. UNRISD’s take was typically critical: whatever the benefits of conservation, it was often happening at the expense of social justice and the livelihoods of minorities.\n\nIn the 2000s, as globalization continued apace and social dimensions began to be re-introduced in the face of the sometimes catastrophic impacts of wide-ranging economic liberalization, UNRISD criticized a narrow social policy focus on safety nets and the targeting of vulnerable groups, arguing instead in favour of universal transformative social policy.\n\nIn the 2010s, the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development by UN member states in 2015 established new global roadmap for development. UNRISD continued to work on social policy, often in conjunction with questions related to the 2030 Agenda. It also took up the new issue of the social and solidarity economy (SSE) and its contribution to sustainable development. Output on gender issues since 2016 fell due to a lack of gender capacity in-house following staff restructuring. Environmental issues are re-emerging as a key area of work, especially as they relate to social policy and climate justice.\n\nThe current research agenda is shaped by three major contemporary development challenges: inequalities, conflict and unsustainable practices. It consists of three programmes:\n\n\nThese programmes pursue a variety of projects including the following, some of which are recently completed, others are still underway:\n\n\nUNRISD has recently introduced a new way of sourcing projects in the form of an “Ideas Incubator”, in which it actively seeks partners to expand its research portfolio.\n\nUNRISD makes its research widely available through books (in partnership with publishers like Routledge, Palgrave Macmillan and Wiley Blackwell), research papers and occasional papers (which are peer-reviewed) and working papers (which are not peer-reviewed). UNRISD researchers also regularly contribute articles to scholarly journals. These publications are typically of interest to an academic audience.\n\nOther publications target an audience of policy-makers, programme designers and decision-makers. These take the form of briefs, whether research and policy briefs, or briefs concerning a specific project, issue or event.\n\nUNRISD maintains on online open access repository with over 1300 publications, in the form of the publications section of its website. The majority of items published after 1990 can be downloaded free of charge. Others are books which can be obtained from the publisher.\n\nSome of these publications have received international recognition, success and incorporation into major global debates. UNRISD regularly publishes flagship reports which synthesize a significant body of recent research.\n\n\nUNRISD frequently convenes conferences and seminars, as a means of refining and developing its research and to disseminate its findings. Its events are often closely linked with its policy impact, being the forums where development policy makers and practitioners can come into contact with academics working on social development.\n\nIn November 2018 UNRISD held a major international conference in Geneva which convened innovative research from the global South and North. The title of the conference was “Overcoming Inequalities in a Fractured World: Between Elite Power and Social Mobilization”. Keynote speeches were given by François Bourguignon and Vandana Shiva. The conference was preceded by a roundtable discussing whether elites are the engines of inequalities, featuring Naila Kabeer (London School of Economics), Saskia Sassen (Columbia University) and Jomo Kwame Sundaram (Council of Eminent Persons, Malaysia).\n\nAs part of the celebrations of its 50th anniversary, UNRISD co-hosted a conference with the ILO (International Labour Organization) in 2013 entitled “The Potential and Limits of the Social and Solidarity Economy”. The conference featured prominent speakers such as Guy Ryder, Jose Luis Coraggio, Paul Singer and Sarah Cook. Over 40 academics presented research findings to about 400 participants. There were several side events including a PhD poster session, book presentations, a practitioners’ forum, movie screenings and a special session on alternative finance and complementary currencies hosted by the UN-NGLS.\n\nIn 2011, UNRISD organized a conference held in Geneva on climate change as a social development issue called “Green Economy and Sustainable Development: Bringing Back the Social Dimension”. The conference created a forum for developing a conceptual and policy framework to position social dimensions at the centre of green economy and sustainable development. Policy reports and other publications prepared for this conference informed the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) preparatory process and subsequent policy discussions.\n\nIn addition to its international conferences, UNRISD organises a regular Seminar Series to provide a space for open, informed and insightful conversation around contemporary issues of concern to social development research and policy. Recent seminars have included:\n\nIn recent years, UNRISD’s outreach and communication strategy has focused on four core objectives:\nCommunication of the research findings has proven to be a key component in strengthening the ultimate purpose and impact of UNRISD activities as well as increasing recognition and use of UNRISD research by the UN system, academia, civil society, and funding bodies.\n\nUNRISD is currently active on LinkedIn, Facebook and Twitter; on the last of these it has recently reached 31,000 followers. UNRISD also produces multimedia material as a means of making seminars and conferences available through online videos and podcasts\n\nUNRISD’s position within the UN system allows it a significant degree of policy influence, while its governance structure and funding situation (see below) give it more latitude for independence than other UN entities enjoy. Its staff serve on UN system-wide committees, task forces and expert groups, and undertake collaborative research with other UN agencies.\n\nUNRISD's independent international events, conferences, seminars and symposiums (see above) are held in order to discuss and present research findings and debates in select fields of focus. These events often draw in the participation of local and international NGOs, government representatives, the media, universities and other research institutes, as well as individual researchers and academics. UNRISD events have also been co-hosted and co-organized with co-operating universities, NGOs and local governments. This extensive cooperation with social development stakeholders is one of the Institute's key channels of policy influence and impact.\n\nIn 2014, UNRISD published a brochure detailing the impact of its work in terms of its agenda-setting capacity, its multiple spheres of influence, and its networking and capacity building.\n\nUNRISD has a small core staff, located in Geneva, Switzerland, which coordinates an international network of collaborating researchers. Collaboration with UNRISD may take one of several forms. Original research may be directly commissioned for a centrally coordinated research project. Alternatively, researchers can respond to a Call for Papers and submit research already underway for publication as part of an UNRISD project. UNRISD also publishes think pieces on its website by collaborating scholars.\n\nUNRISD’s network of currently active collaborating researchers numbers over 400, with a large proportion from the global South.\n\nUNRISD is overseen by a Board, headed by a Chairperson who is appointed by the UN Secretary-General. Board members are selected based on their expertise and qualifications, and membership is confirmed by the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). Board members participate in their individual capacity and do not represent UN member states. The Board reports to the Commission for Social Development biennially.\n\nChairs of the Board\n\n\nDirectors\n\nThe Director reports to both the Board and to ECOSOC via the Commission for Social Development. The Director is responsible for UNRISD’s research activities, fundraising and external relations with the UN secretariat, senior UN officials, specialized agencies, donors and other research entities. Directors are also actively engaged in research.\n\n\nUNRISD relies wholly on voluntary funding from governments, development agencies and foundations, receiving no funding from the United Nations budget. This arrangement, while fluctuant, at the same time guarantees the Institute’s independent status and gives it a certain critical latitude.\n\nThe following governments have contributed to UNRISD over the past 50 years: Australia, Austria, Canada, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iran, Iraq, Italy, Jamaica, Mexico, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, the Republic of Korea, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Yugoslavia.\n"}
{"id": "2157215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157215", "title": "People in Planes", "text": "People in Planes\n\nPeople in Planes were a Welsh alternative rock band from Porthcawl, active from 1998 to 2013. They were signed to Wind-up Records. Prior to 2003, they were known as Tetra Splendour (during which time they moved to Cardiff), and before that, they went by the name of Robots in the Sky. Their final name was derived from the band's obsession with air travel, which is also present in their song titles and lyrics.\n\nThe band began as a four-piece under the name Robots in the Sky. They received assistance under the Community Music Wales scheme (the same organization behind Complete Control Music and the annual Compass Point Festival in Cardiff), and in 2000 they released their début, a red 7\" vinyl with two tracks - \"E.T.A.\" and \"Muriel's Motorhome\". Only 500 copies of the record were made (incidentally, it was also the first ever release on the Complete Control Music label).\n\nThis attracted the attention of EMI/Chrysalis' brand new sub-label, Wishakismo, and the band were offered a deal. Fearing legal repercussions from other bands with similar names (most notably Robots in Disguise), the first name-change was implemented and Robots in the Sky became Tetra Splendour (the English translation of a Spanish jazz quartet, \"Quatro Esplendido\").\n\nAfter signing to Wishakismo, the band headed into Cardiff's Audio Zone recording studio to commence recording of their début album, \"Splendid Animation\". In their brief time as Tetra Splendour, the then-four-piece toured with bands such as Fun Lovin' Criminals, Biffy Clyro and Miss Black America, among others, and played the famous Reading Festival in 2002.\n\nOn 9 April 2001, the band released their first single as Tetra Splendour - \"Mr. Bishi\" (on CD and on 7\" vinyl, of which only 500 copies were made). It was met with positive reviews (and was, incidentally, the first Wishakismo release). On 1 October 2001, the band released their second single, \"De-Rail\" (on CD and 7\" white vinyl). As the release of the album neared, the band were promoted from Wishakismo to the main roster of EMI/Chrysalis. On this label they released their final single, \"Pollenfever\", on 25 February 2002—it would be the only Tetra Splendour release to be backed up by a video (which received limited airplay) and a dedicated headline tour.\n\nOn 20 May 2002, the band's début album, \"Splendid Animation\", was released.\n\nThe album received mixed reviews from the rock press, and many disagreements arose—mainly over Radiohead comparisons and whether or not their \"meandering jazzy nonsense\" was a good thing. However, the general consensus was that the band had potential, and EMI/Chrysalis allowed them to return to the studio.\n\nWhile recording new material, EMI was the subject of a management change, which led to the subsequent releases of many bands from their old contracts, including Tetra Splendour.\n\nAfter being dropped by EMI, the band recorded a new album at Wales' Monnow Valley Studio, containing new songs (with newly hired keyboard player Ian Russell) and unreleased Tetra Splendour material.\n\nIn 2005, they released their first single under the name People in Planes, \"Talking Heads\" (another limited release, being made in a batch of 1,000). The single featured two unreleased Tetra Splendour tracks as B-sides (and being accompanied by a music video, which again received limited airplay). \"Talking Heads\", which has since been renamed to \"If You Talk Too Much (My Head Will Explode)\", a line from the song's chorus (a decision Wind-Up made to make the songs more recognizable on the radio), has since had a new video made, shot in an airport, that was directed by actor Joaquin Phoenix. It is also scheduled for re-release as a single.\n\nAt the 2005 South by Southwest festival in Austin, Texas, the band met Jeff Klein, with whom they would later tour in June 2005. Shortly after their South By Southwest appearance they were approached by Wind Up Records and in May, the band signed a deal with them.\n\nTheir debut album, \"As Far as the Eye Can See\" (which has been the speculative title from as early as 2003), was released on March 28, 2006. The single \"If You Talk Too Much (My Head Will Explode)\" reached #33 on the U.S. Billboard Modern Rock chart. The band toured the United States, opening for Blue October in 2006. The band also features on the soundtrack for the 2006 film \"John Tucker Must Die\" (and were also given a cameo in the film itself).\n\nOn 23 June 2008, at Trash in Brooklyn, New York, People In Planes mentioned that they had become residents of New York City and were working on getting the correct documentation to make it official. They announced the winner of their cover contest as well and played a rendition of Hall & Oates' song \"Maneater\".\n\nPeople In Planes were in pre-production for their second album for Wind-Up records since they returned from the States in late 2006. They took a period off to rehearse new material and played a string of UK shows in late 2006 and early 2007 where they road-tested new material. New song titles include: \"Baked\", \"Evil With You\", \"Get On The Flaw\", \"Human Error\", \"Better Than Life\", \"I Wish That You'd Fall Apart\" and \"Tonight (The Sun Will Rise)\"\n\nOn 7 February 2008 People In Planes released \"Pretty Buildings\", the first song from \"Beyond the Horizon\" as an internet download through MySpace and the band's mailing list.\n\nHey people. I hereby declare People In Planes are back! Our new project was recorded with four different producers in six studios across Wales, England and America, and we've put our entire souls into it. It's been a long wait for all of us, and we're really excited to present this first track to you- \"Pretty Buildings\".\n\n--Gareth, Peter, Kris, John and Ian\n\nThe band headed out to SXSW in March to showcase songs from the new album before joining Jupiter One on a co-headlining tour with The Toadies across the States between March and April. Guitarist Peter Roberts blogged from the road on the band's Myspace revealing that the first radio single is set to be \"M'aidez, M'aidez\", due sometime before the end of the first run of shows.\n\nOn 26 March 2008, the first video from \"Beyond the Horizon\", for the song \"Pretty Buildings\", was released online as a purevolume exclusive. The video was directed by Walter Robot. In addition, on this date the splash page of the band's website changed revealing \"Beyond the Horizon\" as the title of the album with a release date of 9 September 2008.\n\nThe track \"Last Man Standing\" taken from the album \"Beyond the Horizon\" was featured on the Spike TV mini series UFC Primetime on January 31, 2009, documenting the buildup to UFC 94 Georges St-Pierre vs B.J. Penn\nThe track was used in the closing scene of the last episode.\n\nThe band closed out 2008 with a U.S. tour opening for The Toadies.\n\nOn 2 June 2009, the Band released \"Gung Ho For Info EP\", a digital only release featuring the songs \"Lay In The Road\" and \"Baked\", which were previously unavailable in the US.\n\nThe band blogged on Myspace that their next US single would be \"Know By Now\", and that the band was working on new material, referred to as People In Planes 3. A radio edit single of \"Know By Now\" was released in the U.S., but no additional songs have been featured on the single. A Myspace update in late 2009, the band has recorded 8 new songs for the upcoming record.\n\nThey supported Biffy Clyro on their European tour during the fall of 2009. They mentioned upcoming new music on a Myspace blog from February 2010, and hinted fans might get an advance glimpse by signing up for their emailing list. Also, People In Planes 3 is either an EP, or an EP will precede their third full-length album. On small tours they've tested some new material. New song titles that have leaked are \"For Your Eyes Only\", \"Sitting\", \"Right Behind You\", \"Fade Away\", \"Wreckage\", \"Avalanche\", \"Glorious\", and \"Silhouette\". No official updates from the band since 2010 beside Peter's scattered comments about Susan Boyle.\n\nIn August 2011, Steve Osborne reported on his website that he is producing a forthcoming album by People In Planes. No tracks or title were mentioned.\n\nIn 2013, it was reported that the band had broken up.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157217", "title": "Nicolaas van Nieuwland", "text": "Nicolaas van Nieuwland\n\nNicolaas van Nieuwland, or Nicolas Van Nienlant (1510 in Maartensdijk – July 15, 1580 in Utrecht), was a Roman Catholic prelate who served as bishop of Haarlem and abbot of Egmond Abbey from 1562 to 1569 and as Auxiliary Bishop of Utrecht (1541–?).\n\nVan Nieuwland became bishop when he was still young. On 6 Jul 1541, Nicolas Van Nienlant was appointed during the papacy of Pope Paul III as Auxiliary Bishop of Utrecht and Titular Bishop of \"Hebron\". On 11 Sep 1541, he was consecrated bishop by George van Egmond, Bishop of Utrecht, with Nicolas Bureau, Auxiliary Bishop of Tournai and Titular Bishop of \"Sarepta\", and Pascase Maupair, Titular Bishop of \"Selymbria\", serving as co-consecrators. It is uncertain how long he served as Auxiliary Bishop of Utrecht.\n\nIn 1550 he managed the move of the \"Reguliers\", monks from the monastery in Stein, South Holland (where Erasmus was educated) to a Double monastery (also housing the Bridgettines) in Gouda. The former home of the reguliers in \"Land van Steyn\", (), had been lost in a fire in 1549. The convent they moved to in Gouda, was renovated for them by order of George van Egmond and the former sacristy was remodeled into a choir which housed eleven stained glass windows (today on display in seven windows in the Janskerk (Gouda) in the extra room called the \"Van der Vorm kapel\"). Despite these renovations, the Regulierskerk did not survive long after that, because the monastery reverted to the state after the Protestant Reformation in 1580 and the church was torn down. For centuries the Catholic Hofje (), which was founded on the grounds of the monastery in 1563, was allowed to remain on the Raam in Gouda, but this too was finally torn down in 1958.\n\nIn 1580, before destroying the Regulierschurch, the expensive stained glass windows and the accompanying \"cartoons\" were moved to the Janskerk, where they were most recently restored in 1922 and given a separate chapel.\n\nIn 1559 a new diocese was introduced, the diocese Haarlem, and Nicolaas van Nieuwland became bishop of this new diocese on November 6, 1561. He entered the city on February 1, 1562 with a formal procession. Van Nieuwland also became abbot of Egmond Abbey at the same time.\n\nAt the time that Van Nieuwland was in Haarlem, the Protestant Reformation was gaining ground in the Northern Netherlands, and Haarlem was a seat of unrest due to the school there under the leadership of Dirck Volckertszoon Coornhert. Van Nieuwland was faced with a slowly shrinking Catholic population as the townspeople reverted to Protestantism and followed Coornhert, who sided with Lamoral, Count of Egmont and William the Silent, against the Catholic leaders of Van Nieuwland, the newly appointed Frederik V Schenck van Toutenburg, who received his orders from Philip II of Spain. Van Nieuwland's protector George van Egmond had died in 1559.\n\nPerhaps because of these developments, he became an alcoholic, and is registered as walking in processions drunk, earning him the local nickname \"Dronken Klaasje\". He was asked to step down in 1569, and he was replaced by Godfried van Mierlo. Van Nieuwland returned to Utrecht, where he later died.\n"}
{"id": "2157222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157222", "title": "Bob Massie", "text": "Bob Massie\n\nRobert Arnold Lockyer Massie (born 14 April 1947) is a former Australian cricketer who played in six Test matches and three One Day Internationals (ODIs) in 1972 and 1973.\n\nA swing bowler, he had a relatively short international career but is remembered for a Test debut in 1972 at Lord's where he took eight wickets in each innings, with figures of 16/137 for the match. This was a world record for a Test debutant until beaten by India's Narendra Hirwani, who took 16 wickets for just 1 run fewer. The parallels go deeper – neither man enjoyed an extended Test career; between the two of them, they played fewer than 25 Test matches.\n\nMassie was regarded for his work ethic and thinking ability. An upwind bowler, he was known for his ability to swing the ball late in both directions. His nickname was \"Ferg\" – from the well known tractor brand Massey-Ferguson.\n\nThe son of Arnold and Barbara Massie, Bob began playing cricket at age ten at the Bedford Park Youth Club, while a student at Hillcrest Primary School. He moved on to Mount Lawley Senior High School and joined Bassendean-Bayswater in Western Australia’s club competition.\n\nMassie made his debut for Western Australia against South Australia in 1965–66. He made a duck in his first innings and conceded 81 runs without taking a wicket. He did not play another Shield match for the season, nor did he play again for Western Australia that year, but went to join Kilmarnock in the Scottish league. He also trialled with Northampton in English County cricket, but was not signed after he played two matches in the second XI for a total of 3/166.\n\nHe was not to regain his state place until an away trip to the eastern seaboard in 1969. In his first match upon his return against South Australia, he took match figures of 4/75. His performance in the season was unspectacular, taking less than 15 wickets in the 1969–70 Australian season. When the touring England played Western Australia in the early stages of the 1970–71 season, Massie went wicketless and found his match opportunities restricted with Graham McKenzie back from international duty. He was recalled for a match against Queensland at the WACA Ground, taking match figures of 8/95 to ensure his place in the state side.\n\nAt the start of the 1971–72 Australian season he gained a position in the Australian team for the second match against the Rest of the World team in Melbourne which had been quickly organised after the touring South Africans were banned due to apartheid. Massie took three wickets. In the following match in Sydney, he took 7/76 in 21 overs including the scalp of Gary Sobers to secure his selection in the squad for the 1972 Ashes tour.\n\nMassie took 6/31 in the opening first class match of the tour against Worcester, but was not selected for the First Test due to injury. He took 8/84 and 8/53 in his Test debut in the Second Test at Lord’s to square the series for Australia. His display of swing bowling yielded him the third best match figures of all time up to then, 16/137 (behind Jim Laker’s 19/90 and Sydney Barnes’ 17/159) and the best ever match figures on debut (later bettered by one run by Narendra Hirwani’s 16/136). Utilising his experience playing for Kilmarnock, he bowled a consistent line and length, stating \"it could hardly have been better experience than to play on the soft wickets in the Scottish League\". His performance was marked by a heavy emphasis on bowling around the wicket to the England batsmen. It was a tactic devised at Old Trafford where he bowled that way to his team mate Ross Edwards in the nets. He took 23 wickets at 17 in the Tests, twice taking five in an innings and once ten in a match. He was unable to replicate his form in the remaining matches, his best being 4/43 in the Third Test.\n\nUpon his return to Australia, he played only two more Tests in the 1972–73 season against Pakistan. He took eight wickets but it was his batting which attracted the most attention. With Australia faltering at 8/101 in its second innings in the Third Test, with only a 75 run lead, Massie combined with John Watkins to add 83. Massie made 42 and Australia managed to win the Test and the series. Massie’s health failed him on the 1973 West Indies tour and he was unable to recover his swing and accuracy. He played only a further five first class matches before retiring.\n"}
{"id": "2157224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157224", "title": "Ludwigia hexapetala", "text": "Ludwigia hexapetala\n\nLudwigia hexapetala, the water primrose, is a herbaceous perennial plant of the family Onagraceae. Native to Central and South America, its habitat includes the margins of lakes, ponds, ditches, and streams. Its stems may be immersed or fully emergent. It is a noxious invader of aquatic ecosystems in North America.\n\n\"Ludwigia hexapetala\" is native to Latin America. It occurs naturally in swampier regions, such as those of lakes, ponds, and other areas of low intensity/stagnant water. It grows in mats of up to three feet tall, and in doing so, it crowds and/or shades out the other, more native species. The plant is known to inhabit the Southeast United States, Midwest United States, Pacific Coast, and parts of New England\n\n"}
{"id": "2157228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157228", "title": "Kevin Beattie", "text": "Kevin Beattie\n\nThomas Kevin Beattie (18 December 1953 – 16 September 2018) was an English footballer. Born into poverty, he played at both professional and international levels, mostly as a centre-half. He spent the majority of his playing career at Ipswich Town, the club with which he won both the FA Cup and the UEFA Cup. He was also named the inaugural Professional Footballers' Association Young Player of the Year at the end of the 1972–73 season, and featured in the film \"Escape to Victory\" alongside many of his Ipswich teammates.\n\nBeattie's playing career took him from rags to riches, but according to \"The Daily Telegraph\" he was \"cursed by being both injury and accident prone\". His playing career included some controversy, notably when he went missing after being selected for England's under-23 team. After retiring from playing he descended into unemployment and alcohol abuse, and contemplated suicide, before finding purpose once more and a new career in later life, as a football commentator on television and radio.\n\nBeattie has been called Ipswich Town's best ever player by many pundits and polls. Ipswich (and later England) manager Bobby Robson called him the best England player he had seen.\n\nThomas Kevin Beattie was born in Carlisle on 18 December 1953. His family lived in the Botcherby estate and he was one of nine children: five boys and four girls. He became known by his middle name, as his father was also named Thomas Beattie. Beattie's mother was a cleaner at a Lipton tea shop, whilst his father worked for the National Coal Board, delivering coal. The elder Thomas played amateur football as a goalkeeper and once had a trial with Aston Villa, but turned down an offer to join the club as he could earn more working for the Coal Board. After he was forced to give up work due to a back problem, the family suffered financially and were often short of food, leading to the young Beattie taking fruit and vegetables from local allotments. In later life, he recalled, \"There was often only food on the table when Dad had backed a winning horse, or else won a game of darts, or dominoes down at his local pub.\"\n\nBeattie supported his local football team, Carlisle United, and idolised players like Hughie McIlmoyle. He recalled being \"devastated\" when McIlmoyle was too busy to sign an autograph outside the club, resolving never to turn down such requests. Beattie attended St Cuthbert's Roman Catholic junior school, where he began playing football for the school team, initially as a goalkeeper. His family were unable to afford the football boots he needed, but a teacher named Mr Raffety bought a pair for him. Beattie soon became a forward and modelled himself on Chelsea's Peter Osgood.\n\nAlthough Beattie passed his eleven-plus exams, his family could not afford the grammar school uniform, so he moved to St Patrick's Roman Catholic senior school. He began playing for Blackfriars, a local youth team managed by Raffety, and also, from the age of 14, for a pub team, alongside his father. Raffety recommended him to Carlisle United, but the club did not have a youth team. Beattie was also told that Celtic had shown an interest in him, but the club had been wrongly told that he was not a Catholic, the traditional religion of the majority of the club's fanbase. He left school aged 14, and subsequently worked as a machine fitter and delivery boy in factories, a warehouse, a dry cleaner and then a furniture company.\n\nAt the age of 15, Beattie was playing for Blackfriars on Sunday and for a club called St Augustine on Saturdays, when he was spotted by a football scout and offered a trial with Liverpool. Beattie travelled to Liverpool and impressed manager Bill Shankly sufficiently for him to be invited back to sign for the club. Beattie returned to Liverpool on his own, but nobody from the club arrived to meet him at Lime Street station. After waiting an hour and assuming they had lost interest, and with nothing but his boots and train ticket, he returned home to Carlisle. Shankly would later describe missing out on signing the youngster as one of his biggest mistakes.\n\nSoon after this, Beattie joined Ipswich Town as an apprentice. Ipswich manager Bobby Robson made sure that he was met at Euston station in London, played in a youth match at Fulham, and was accompanied all the way to Ipswich's Portman Road ground by the club's chief scout, Ron Gray. Robson told Gray, \"If you miss him, you've lost your job\". The poverty Beattie came from was evident when he arrived in Ipswich wearing his father's shoes, so when Ipswich signed him, the club immediately bought him some clothes. As a youth he had played as a striker, but Robson converted him into a defender, usually a centre-half; the player said in later life that the move suited him well, as it meant he could see all the play in front of him.\nNow earning a wage, Beattie tried to help support his family, sending money home each week. He also stepped in to prevent domestic violence between his parents: \"I became extremely upset when I found out that Dad was spending the money that I had been sending home on drink and Mum was going without. Not only that but I also found out that his drinking had got worse and he had started knocking Mum around.\"\n\nBeattie was given his first-team debut aged 18 against Manchester United in the opening match of the 1972–73 season in England's top division. Ipswich won the game 2–1, and afterwards he asked United's Bobby Charlton for his autograph; Charlton told Beattie that his play reminded him of Duncan Edwards and that, in years to come, he would be the one signing autographs. Beattie scored his first league goal for the club two weeks later at Elland Road in a 3–3 draw with Leeds United. That season he featured 38 times for Ipswich in the league and scored 5 goals; Ipswich ended in fourth place, their best finish since the Championship-winning 1961–62 season under Alf Ramsey. Beattie was also part of the 1972–73 Texaco Cup-winning team, which defeated Norwich City 4–2 on aggregate over two legs, and he was named the inaugural winner of the Ipswich Town Player of the Year award.\n\nThe following season saw Beattie's first appearance in a European competition, with Ipswich having qualified for the UEFA Cup as a result of their fourth position in the league the previous season. He played in aggregate victories over Real Madrid (1–0), Lazio (6–4) and FC Twente (3–1), before the side lost on penalties to Lokomotive Leipzig, Beattie having scored his first European goal in the home leg. He appeared in all 42 league games for Ipswich that season (along with Mick Mills), made 15 other appearances in cup competitions, and was presented with the inaugural Professional Footballers' Association's (PFA) Young Player of the Year award. He was also once again voted his club's Player of the Year. Early in the 1974–75 season Beattie was involved in mild controversy against Stoke City when his tackle at Portman Road broke John Ritchie's leg. In the return fixture at Stoke's Victoria Ground, Beattie's teammate Allan Hunter was involved in an incident that left Stoke's Denis Smith with a broken leg. The crowd erupted in anger, directed at Beattie; Robson noted \"There was a cauldron for 20 minutes. Kevin Beattie had to beat 28,000 people out there.\" Later that season, Beattie was awarded the captaincy for a game, against his home team Carlisle United. Having played 52 games and scored 6 goals during the season for Ipswich, he was elected by his peers as a member of the First Division Team of the Year. He had helped his club reach the semi-final of the 1974–75 FA Cup and to finish the league season in third position.\n\nBeattie made 36 appearances for Ipswich during the 1975–76 season, scoring 4 goals. Ipswich finished sixth and were knocked out of the 1975–76 FA Cup in the fourth round. Towards the end of the season, he began to suffer from severe back pain, something he blamed on an injury incurred as a child while helping his father carry sacks of coal. Despite the relative lack of success with his club, he was selected in the First Division Team of the Year for the second year in a row. The 1976–77 season started well for Ipswich with victories over Liverpool and Manchester United. Ipswich then achieved a club record-equalling 7–0 win over West Bromwich Albion: the Albion goalkeeper John Osborne said of Beattie's long-range goal that he regarded himself as fortunate he had not touched it as it would have knocked his hand off. Beattie's season was prematurely curtailed by a self-inflicted injury: stoking a bonfire at his home, he decided to add petrol; the ensuing flare-up gave him serious burns to his face and neck, leading to him missing six matches. Before the injury, Ipswich were challenging for the league title, but, in Beattie's absence, the side lost four of their last six matches and missed out on winning the championship by five points. He played in 34 games for Ipswich that season, scoring 5 goals, and was selected for the PFA Team of the Year for the third time in a row, along with teammates Mick Mills and Brian Talbot.\n\nBeattie was fit to play by the start of the 1977–78 season, but a knee injury sustained in a league match led to him withdrawing from the England squad to face Luxembourg. Further investigation revealed he had damaged cartilage in his knee, which required an operation. Having had three weeks' recuperation and a cortisone injection, he was restored to the Ipswich squad in time to play in the third round UEFA Cup home leg against FC Barcelona. Ipswich won the fixture 3–0, and even though he suffered a reaction in his knee, he insisted he was able to play in the away leg. Robson disagreed, and Beattie was left out of the side for the game; Ipswich were knocked out on penalties. Cortisone injections became commonplace for Beattie, who returned to the team in time for the FA Cup fourth-round victory against Hartlepool. Although Ipswich's form in the league was poor, they were safe from relegation by the time they faced West Bromwich Albion in the FA Cup semi-final at Highbury, a game for which Beattie was given the all-clear. A 3–1 victory saw Ipswich into the final, yet the next day his knee was once again swollen and his participation in the final was in jeopardy. According to Beattie, \"the boss secretly told me that if I felt fit enough to play then I was in\". Robson did not announce the Cup final team until the last minute: it included a formation change to include five midfielders and Paul Mariner as a lone striker – and Beattie in defence. Roger Osborne's late goal for Ipswich was the only score of the game, and they won the trophy. Beattie had three cortisone injections to get through the final. Following the cup final success, he and teammates Robin Turner and David Geddis were awarded the freedom of Carlisle. Beattie had represented Ipswich 21 times during the course of the season, without scoring a goal.\n\nShortly into the 1978–79 season, Beattie suffered problems with his other knee. Two further operations followed, and he was confined to treatment and physiotherapy, only, in his words, \"wheeled out for the really big games\". Overall, he made 26 appearances that season, scoring twice. The 1979–80 season saw him make just 12 appearances, twice as substitute, and score twice, as his post-match recuperation took weeks, not days. He also played a \"bit-part\" in the 1980–81 season, usually as a striker instead of his usual position of centre-half. However, his defensive role in the two-leg victory over the Czechoslovakian team Bohemians, in the second round of the 1980–81 UEFA Cup, for which he was awarded man of the match, proved vital to Ipswich's season. Although irregularly selected as a result of his injuries, Beattie played in the fourth round, first leg 4–1 away victory over AS Saint-Étienne, whose team included Michel Platini and Johnny Rep. Ipswich won the home leg 3–1 without Beattie. He played his last match for Ipswich in April 1981, in an FA Cup semi-final loss to Manchester City in which he broke his arm. Ipswich won the UEFA Cup at the end of the season, but Beattie was not presented with a winner's medal as he did not play in the final or even appear on the bench, through injury; 26 years later, a petition was organised by Rob Finch, the writer of Beattie's 2007 biography \"The Greatest Footballer England Never Had\", calling on UEFA to right the wrong. Beattie was finally awarded a medal by UEFA president Michel Platini at the 2008 UEFA Cup Final between Rangers and Zenit Saint Petersburg.\n\nBeattie retired due to injury in December 1981, following five knee operations in four years. His testimonial game took place in March 1982, against a Dynamo Moscow XI.\n\nIn the off-season of 1982, Beattie began training with Norwich City under manager Ken Brown who offered him a short-term contract. The offer was soon withdrawn because Ipswich were reluctant to release Beattie to their local rivals. Instead, he joined another East Anglian team, Colchester United, whose player-manager was Allan Hunter, a former team-mate of Beattie. Beattie made six appearances for the club, four of those in the league, but when teammate John Lyons committed suicide, Hunter resigned, and Beattie decided to move on. He signed for Middlesbrough, where he made five appearances during that season, scoring once, a penalty, in a 2–0 FA Cup victory over Notts County. His time at the club ended when he suffered a serious groin injury whilst playing against north-east rivals Newcastle United.\n\nDropping into non-League football, Beattie signed for Barry Fry's Barnet, joining another ex-England international, Steve Whitworth. Injury and, according to Beattie, \"a combination of the drink and depression\" curtailed his spell at the club. After failing to secure any coaching work, Beattie took up work as a labourer, and joined local team Harwich & Parkeston to supplement his income. Accepting an offer from Ipswich's former scout Ron Gray, Beattie joined Swedish second-tier side Sandvikens IF under manager and former Swedish international player, Thomas Nordahl. Soon afterward, Nordahl suddenly resigned and the club let Beattie go. He moved to Norway, signing for fourth division club Kongsberg IF, where he scored more than 60 goals in his first season. He signed for Norwegian second division club Nybergsund IL-Trysil in 1988, making five appearances for them before moving back to England. He also played for Clacton Town. He assisted Mike Walker and Duncan Forbes at Norwich City as a scout during Walker's time as manager and performed a similar role for Alan Ball Jr. at Portsmouth. Beattie's first foray into coaching was a part-time position at his hometown club Carlisle United under Roddy Collins in the 2002–03 season. Collins was sacked early in the 2003–04 season, and Beattie left the club, subsequently opting to coach school children in the United States. His last coaching position was a short spell with Barry Fry at Peterborough United.\n\nFormer Ipswich manager and then-England manager Alf Ramsey selected Beattie to represent the England under-23 team during the 1972–73 English domestic season. He made his debut in November 1972 against Wales under-23s at Vetch Field in Swansea, England winning 3–0. His final under-23 game also saw his only goal at that level, in a 2–0 victory, once again over Wales, this time at the Racecourse Ground in Wrexham.\n\nBeattie's senior England debut came under Don Revie, a starting role in a 5–0 victory over Cyprus at Wembley in April 1975, especially notable for Malcolm Macdonald scoring all five goals. Beattie managed to put the ball in the net, but the goal was disallowed for a foul on the goalkeeper; ultimately, the only goal he scored for his country was in May 1975, during a 5–1 victory over Scotland in the 1974–75 British Home Championship. Perry Groves, who played alongside Beattie at Colchester United, describes how Beattie, ostensibly playing at left-back, emerged to meet a cross from Kevin Keegan, beat two Scottish defenders and \"looped a great header\" into the goal, voted one of the top 50 goals England have scored. His final game for England was in October 1977 against Luxembourg in a qualification match for the 1978 FIFA World Cup. In total, he earned nine caps between 1975 and 1977, scoring once.\n\nBeattie was renowned for his strength, the nickname \"Beast\" reflecting that, but also his quality on the ball (with the resultant other nickname of \"Diamond\"). Robson described him as \"the quickest defender I ever saw... with a left foot like a howitzer\". Perry Groves noted that Beattie's only shortcoming appeared to be his inability to throw the ball far. When Beattie arrived at Colchester, \"into his thirties\" and with his knees \"all shot\", \"he was still the quickest player at the club over ten yards by a long way.\" Groves recalls Robson's summary of Beattie's strengths as a player:\nWhat a player the boy was... He could climb higher than the crossbar and still head the ball down. He had the sweetest left foot I've ever seen and could hit 60-yard passes, without looking, that eliminated six opposition players from the game. He had the strength of a tank, was lightning quick and he could tackle.\n\nDuring his years with Ipswich, Beattie formed a central defensive partnership with Allan Hunter. Robson described them as 'Bacon and eggs'. Interviewed in 2018, Hunter talked about their partnership:\n\nwe just gelled and if I went and done things to attack the ball he was always behind me – and vice-versa. We didn't need to work at it because it was something that came naturally... We were just a good partnership... me and Beat would be sitting on the other side of a room from each other and we would know what the other was thinking because there were times I would, or he would, burst out laughing and the boys would say, what you bloody laughing at? And we would say \"mind your own business\"... It helped on the field because we didn't even have to talk because we knew each other's play.\n\nIn December 1974, Beattie was involved in an incident that prompted newspaper headlines across the quality and tabloid press. Called up to represent England at under-23 level against Scotland under-23s at Pittodrie, Beattie was \"put on the right train by his manager Bobby Robson\", yet failed to arrive in Manchester. That Beattie was \"found\" playing dominoes with his father in a pub in Carlisle helped substantiate the story, although England manager Don Revie sent Beattie a telegram wishing him a happy birthday, the following day. Groves' account, 30 years later, is that when Beattie's train pulled into Carlisle station, he saw the name, felt homesick and went to visit his father. Media coverage at the time ascribed Beattie's lapses to pressure; factors cited included his then four-week-old daughter, his rags-to-riches climb and a virus. Subsequent reports that he then missed training for Ipswich, allegedly preferring to stay in bed when passed fit by the club doctor, fuelled the story further. Ipswich suspended him for one match.\n\nBeattie accepted a lit cigarette from a fan and smoked it whilst collecting his FA Cup winner's medal in 1978. According to Groves, Beattie smoked 20 cigarettes a day for the duration of his playing career; he also missed part of pre-season for Colchester because he \"strained too much\" while defecating, resulting in a pulled stomach muscle.\n\nBeattie was unemployed on several occasions after finishing his playing career. Groves writes about how the unemployment office where Beattie would sign on was so close to Ipswich's home ground that he would see players arriving in their \"flash motors\", while he signed autographs. After running a pub, he began drinking very heavily and was on one occasion given the last rites when his pancreas \"packed up\". He considered suicide, but was able to care for his wife who was seriously unwell, and, according to Groves, managed to get \"his life back on the right track\". Nonetheless, Beattie became impoverished, and despite receiving £50,000 from a testimonial match organised by Ipswich Town, he depended on financial help from the PFA. In later years, Beattie worked for broadcast media; he commented on football for BBC Radio Suffolk until the day before his death. He also co-wrote his autobiography, \"The Beat\", published in 1998. In May 2012, Beattie was convicted of benefit fraud and given a 12-week curfew. He had failed to disclose his earnings from radio, for fear of losing Income Support. He later apologised and described it as a \"silly mistake\".\n\nBeattie met his future wife Margaret Boldy, known as Maggie, in the late 1960s or early 1970s in a youth club near to his apprentice accommodation, Beattie describing it as \"love at first sight\". They married in 1974, and soon afterward she appeared in \"Radio Times\" in a \"Footballers' Wives\" feature; at that point the couple were still living in a \"modest\" club-owned house. Maggie was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis during the mid-1980s; she was later confined to a wheelchair, with Beattie as her carer in their council-owned bungalow. They had three daughters, Emma, Sarah and Louise.\n\nHis playing career injuries gave Beattie difficulties in later life: by the time he was 53 he was \"unable to walk more than half a mile\", owing to the arthritis in his knees. He refused to bow to his difficulties: \"Maggie, bless her, never complains\", he said to a \"Daily Telegraph\" reporter, \"so why should I feel any anger at how life turned out?\". On 16 September 2018, Beattie died of a suspected heart attack at the age of 64. He was survived by his wife and daughters. His funeral was held at the crematorium at Nacton on 26 October 2018. Former Ipswich and England player Terry Butcher paid tribute to Beattie, calling him \"the complete footballer\" and describing his left-footed shot as an \"Exocet\". George Burley referred to Beattie as \"a legend\", while John Wark, whose nickname for Beattie was \"Monster\", described him as the best-ever Ipswich player.\n\nBeattie was once described by Bobby Robson as the best England player he had seen, and that he could have rivalled Duncan Edwards. Beattie was inducted into the Ipswich Town Hall of Fame in 2008, was voted numerous times as Ipswich Town's \"best ever player\", and features as one of Perry Groves' 20 \"Football Heroes\" in a book published in 2009.\n\nAlong with some of his Ipswich teammates, Beattie featured in the 1981 film \"Escape to Victory\". His skills were shown on the pitch as the body double for Michael Caine's prisoner-of-war character, and the two became friends. Beattie had a cooler relationship with Sylvester Stallone, who also starred in the film: \"There weren't too many that got on that well with him and after I beat him in an arm wrestle – first my right arm and then my left – he didn't speak to me again\". A campaign for a permanent memorial to Beattie to be placed outside Portman Road, along with the existing statues of Robson and Alf Ramsey, was started soon after his death by \"Ipswich Star\" and \"East Anglian Daily Times\" editor Brad Jones. The design for the statue was revealed on 19 March 2019. It was confirmed in August 2019 that the funds required to build the statue had been raised.\n\nIpswich Town\n\nIndividual\n\n"}
{"id": "2157229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157229", "title": "Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance", "text": "Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance\n\nMonoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) is a plasma cell dyscrasia in which plasma cells or other types of antibody-producing cells secrete a myeloma protein, i.e. an abnormal antibody, into the blood; this abnormal protein is usually found during standard laboratory blood or urine tests. MGUS resembles multiple myeloma and similar diseases, but the levels of antibodies are lower, the number of plasma cells (white blood cells that secrete antibodies) in the bone marrow is lower, and it rarely has symptoms or major problems. However, since MGUS can lead to multiple myeloma which develops at the rate of about 1.5% a year, yearly monitoring is recommended.\n\nThe progression from MGUS to multiple myeloma usually involves several steps. In rare cases, it may also be related with a slowly progressive symmetric distal sensorimotor neuropathy.\n\nPeople with monoclonal gammopathy generally do not experience signs or symptoms. Some people may experience a rash or nerve problems, such as numbness or tingling. Severe renal disease has also been found in a subset of those with monoclonal gammopathy. MGUS is usually detected by chance when the patient has a blood test for another condition or as part of standard screening.\n\nPathologically, the lesion in MGUS is in fact very similar to that in multiple myeloma. There is a predominance of clonal plasma cells in the bone marrow with an abnormal immunophenotype (CD38+ CD56+ CD19−) mixed in with cells of a normal phenotype (CD38+ CD56− CD19+); in MGUS, on average more than 3% of the clonal plasma cells have the normal phenotype, whereas in multiple myeloma, less than 3% of the cells have the normal phenotype.\n\nMGUS is a common, age-related medical condition characterized by an accumulation of bone marrow plasma cells derived from a single abnormal clone. Patients may be diagnosed with MGUS if they fulfill the following four criteria:\n\n\nSeveral other illnesses can present with a monoclonal gammopathy, and the monoclonal protein may be the first discovery before a formal diagnosis is made:\nThe protein electrophoresis test should be repeated annually, and if there is any concern for a rise in the level of monoclonal protein, then prompt referral to a hematologist is required. The hematologist, when first evaluating a case of MGUS, will usually perform a skeletal survey (X-rays of the proximal skeleton), check the blood for hypercalcemia and deterioration in renal function, check the urine for Bence Jones protein and perform a bone marrow biopsy. If none of these tests are abnormal, a patient with MGUS is followed up once every 6 months to a year with a blood test (serum protein electrophoresis). Although patients with MGUS have sometimes been reported to suffer from peripheral neuropathy, a debilitating condition which causes bizarre sensory problems to painful sensory problems, no treatment is indicated.\n\nAt the Mayo Clinic, MGUS transformed into multiple myeloma or similar lymphoproliferative disorders at the rate of about 1-2% a year, or 17%, 34%, and 39% at 10, 20, and 25 years, respectively, of follow-up—among surviving patients. However, because they were elderly, most patients with MGUS died of something else and did not go on to develop multiple myeloma. When this was taken into account, only 11.2% developed lymphoproliferative disorders.\n\nKyle studied the prevalence of myeloma in the population as a whole (not clinic patients) in Olmsted County, Minnesota. They found that the prevalence of MGUS was 3.2% in people above 50, with a slight male predominance (4.0% vs. 2.7%). Prevalence increased with age: of people over 70 up to 5.3% had MGUS, while in the over-85 age group the prevalence was 7.5%. In the majority of cases (63.5%), the paraprotein level was <1 g/dl, while only a very small group had levels over 2 g/dl. A study of monoclonal protein levels conducted in Ghana showed a prevalence of MGUS of approximately 5.9% in African men over the age of 50.\n\nIn 2009, prospective data demonstrated that all or almost all cases of multiple myeloma are preceded by MGUS. In addition to multiple myeloma, MGUS may also progress to Waldenström's macroglobulinemia, primary amyloidosis, B-cell lymphoma, or chronic lymphocytic leukemia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157232", "title": "Sherston Software", "text": "Sherston Software\n\nSherston Software, also known as Sherston Publishing Group, is a British software publisher, producing educational games and learning resources.\n\nTwo teachers, Bill and Lou Bonham, started making games for the BBC Micro in 1983 and set up a limited company in 1991. In 2003, Bill and Lou sold Sherston to a four-man management team, which led to the company being called Sherston Publishing Group. In 2008 the offices in Angel House, Sherston, Wiltshire also became home to BLi Education which owned the brands TAG Learning, Economatics Education and SEMERC. TAG Developments (based in Kennington, London) is also part of the group and produced MAPS – Managed Assessment and ePortfolio System – which features some Sherston software content. In difficult trading conditions in the education market in 2010 and 2011, BLi Education went into administration but many of the assets were acquired by Sherston Publishing Group which now operates once again under the 'Sherston' name.\n\nSherston employs developers in India. An associate company, Sherston Sheshani operates out of an office in Cape Town, South Africa. Sherston also has an office in the US (Sherston America) based in Portland, Oregon. Sherston Software also publishes software in association with partners including BBC Worldwide (now BBC Active), HarperCollins and Oxford University Press.\n\nIn 2015, Sherston was acquired by private equity firm Big Clever Learning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157256", "title": "Robert Snooks", "text": "Robert Snooks\n\nRobert Snooks was the last man to be executed in England for highway robbery, on 11 March 1802. Born in Hungerford in Berkshire, he was christened as James Snook on 16 August 1761. The fact that his name is commonly quoted as Robert Snooks is perhaps due to a corruption of his identity as the \"Robber\" Snook.\n\nOn the evening of Sunday 10 May 1801 post boy John Stevens, travelling from Tring to Hemel Hempstead, was entrusted with several mail bags of post. Upon reaching an isolated part of Boxmoor, near Bourne End, he was threatened by a highwayman who stole from him six leather bags containing bank notes, promissory notes and letters. The highwayman took the money, of a value of £80, and discarded the unwanted letters and bags, leaving them strewn across the moor. It was revealed in the London Chronicle of 11 March 1802, that the highwayman had also discarded his saddle with a broken girth strap on the moor, a mistake that would subsequently lead to the identification of the culprit.\n\nThe day after the theft, Postmaster and High Constable John Page (of the Kings Arms in nearby Berkhamsted) initiated investigations into the crime, it was then that several people came forward and stated they remembered seeing a man at the Kings Arms fixing a broken girth-strap on his saddle. It was believed that the culprit worked at the Kings Arms as an ostler, and would thus have some knowledge of the post boy's route. The culprit was identified as James Snook.\n\nBy this time James Snook was already a wanted man, in connection with several highway robberies between Bath and Salisbury. He had also been indicted for horse-stealing at the Old Bailey in 1799, under what is assumed to be his full name of James Blackman Snooks. For this charge he was acquitted, due to lack of firm evidence.\n\nA reward of £200 was offered by the Postmaster General in addition to the £100 offered by Parliament for the apprehending of highwaymen. He was subsequently captured in Marlborough Forest on 8 December 1801, by William Salt, a post-boy who was driving a chaise through the forest. Salt recognised Snook, and managed to apprehend the thief with the help of his passengers. At this point, Snook had £200 in his pocket, as well as 'a brace of very handsome pistols'. John Stevens, was unable to positively identify Snook, as it was dark at the time of the robbery, as a result, there was only circumstantial evidence that linked Snook to the crime. This included one of the stolen bank notes being traced back to being in Snook's possession, when he accidentally gave it to a serving girl in Southwark whilst trying to purchase some cloth.\n\nHe was initially held in Newgate Prison, before being moved to Hertford Gaol on 4 March 1802 whilst awaiting trial. Five days later, the trial took place and he was found guilty. Whilst the typical punishment for highway robbery was transportation, due to Snook's crime being \"\"of a nature so destructive to society and the commercial interests to the country\"\", he was sentenced to be hanged.\n\nSnook's punishment took place two days after his sentencing, on public ground nearest to the scene of the crime, as the law required. It is believed that thousands of people flocked to see the hanging, and it was to some of this number that Snook's is reputed to have exclaimed \"\"It's no good hurrying - they can't start the fun until I get there!\"\" whilst on his way to the gallows. Snook's body was dug up the day after his hanging, was interred in a coffin provided by the residents of Hemel Hempstead and unceremoniously re-interred on the moor.\n\nA small headstone (bearing the name 'Robert Snooks') was erected by the Box Moor Trust in 1904, whilst a footstone was installed in 1994, as part of the Trust's 400 year anniversary. The exactly location of Snook's hanging, and subsequent burial is unknown, so the location of the stones is an approximation.\n\nA pub in the nearby Pavilion in Hemel Hempstead, since demolished, was named after Snooks and used the silhouette of a mounted highwayman as its sign. One of the local Explorer Scout units is also named after him. In addition to the gravestones, the Box Moor Trust has also named one of the moors 'Snook's Moor', whilst the Estate Managers house is appropriately named 'Snook's End'. .\n\n"}
{"id": "2157259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157259", "title": "David Ross (baseball)", "text": "David Ross (baseball)\n\nDavid Wade Ross (born March 19, 1977) is an American professional baseball manager and former catcher for the Chicago Cubs of Major League Baseball (MLB). He played for 14 years in MLB.\n\nRoss played college baseball for Auburn University and the University of Florida and participated in two College World Series. He started his major league career playing for the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2002 and also played for the Pittsburgh Pirates, San Diego Padres, Cincinnati Reds, Boston Red Sox, Atlanta Braves, and Chicago Cubs. Ross won the World Series with the Boston Red Sox in 2013 and the Chicago Cubs in 2016. The Cubs named him their manager prior to the 2020 season.\n\nRoss was born in Bainbridge, Georgia in 1977, but was raised in Tallahassee, Florida. He was born into a family of athletes - his father, David Ross, Sr., played in a men's softball league, and his mother, Jackie, played basketball. Ross's uncles were both football players in college. He attended Florida State University's laboratory school, Florida High School, in Tallahassee, Florida, where he played high school baseball for the Florida High School Demons. Ross was the first of five children; he has an older sister, Shannon, and a younger sister, Nikki.\n\nRoss received an athletic scholarship to attend Auburn University in Auburn, Alabama, where he played college baseball for the Auburn Tigers baseball team from 1996 to 1997. In 1996, he played collegiate summer baseball with the Brewster Whitecaps of the Cape Cod Baseball League. The defining moment of his college career came in the semifinal of the East Regional tournament during the 1997 College World Series when he hit a walk-off 3 run home run against Florida State to advance to the regional final. The Auburn Tigers would advance to the College World Series, getting knocked out in the 2nd round by Stanford. He transferred to the University of Florida after the 1997 season, and played one additional season of college baseball for the Florida Gators baseball team in 1998. Ross is one of the few players to have played in the College World Series with two different colleges, first with the Tigers in 1997, and then the Gators in 1998. Ross decided to forgo his final season of National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) eligibility after his junior season with the Gators, when he was drafted by the Los Angeles Dodgers.\n\nRoss was drafted in the 19th round of the 1995 amateur draft by the Los Angeles Dodgers, but did not sign and accepted a scholarship to attend Auburn University instead. In 1998 the Dodgers drafted Ross again, this time in the 7th round.\n\nRoss made his MLB debut on June 29, 2002, striking out as a pinch hitter. On September 2, 2002, with the Dodgers leading 18–0, the Diamondbacks put first baseman Mark Grace in to pitch after he volunteered, to rest the bullpen. Ross hit his 1st major league home run off Grace with two outs in the 9th inning, capping a 19-1 win. Ross's Dodger career was stalled, however, by the large number of catchers in the Dodger system. Paul Lo Duca was the starting catcher through most of Ross's time in Los Angeles, and teammates like Brent Mayne, Koyie Hill, and Todd Hundley competed with him for playing time. Ross stayed with the team until 2004.\n\nThe Dodgers sold Ross's contract to the Pittsburgh Pirates on March 30, 2005. After 40 games with the Pirates, he was traded to the San Diego Padres on July 28, 2005 for infielder J. J. Furmaniak. He played in 11 games with the Padres.\n\nThe Padres traded Ross to the Cincinnati Reds during spring training for the 2006 season. On January 15, 2006, Ross signed a two-year, $4.54 million contract with the Reds.\n\nWhile Ross was most often used as the \"personal catcher\" for right-hander Bronson Arroyo, whom the Reds received in a spring training trade with the Boston Red Sox for outfielder Wily Mo Peña, the consensus among Reds fans was that Ross had proven himself deserving of being the number-one catcher due to his better offensive numbers and that one of the other Reds catchers, Jason LaRue or Javier Valentín, should have been traded (possibly as part of a package deal) for a relief pitcher. LaRue was the one most frequently cited, but no deal was made by the July 31 trade deadline. Ostensibly, Ross was the number-one catcher.\n\nOn November 20, 2006, LaRue was traded to the Kansas City Royals for a player to be named later. Ross's 2007 season started with 4 hits in 38 at-bats with no home runs and 17 strikeouts. On April 21, 2007, his slump hit rock bottom when with runners on first and second base, he grounded into a rare 5–4–3 triple play against the Philadelphia Phillies. Ross finished the 2007 season with a .203 batting average and 17 home runs. On August 10, 2008, Ross was designated for assignment and was released on August 18.\n\nRoss signed a minor-league contract with the Boston Red Sox on August 22, 2008. He came up to the MLB club on August 29 and became a free agent after the season.\n\nThe Atlanta Braves signed Ross to a two-year, $3 million deal on December 5, 2008.\n\nIn 2009, Ross hit .273 in 54 games. On July 27, 2010, he signed a two-year extension to stay with the Braves through 2012. He managed to hit a career high .289 for the Braves in 59 games in 2010.\n\nRoss was the Atlanta Braves secondary catcher behind Brian McCann for his four seasons with the Braves. His hot start in the 2011 season (hitting .333 after starting 7 games, with 3 home runs) highlighted his strengths, as Ross has always been known as a strong defensive catcher (in 2009, he committed one error in 52 games). Ross hit the first ever home run in the Wild Card Game when the new playoff format was introduced in 2012.\n\nRoss signed a two-year, $6.2 million deal on November 10, 2012, to return to the Red Sox as \"more than a backup but not a starter\" behind primary catcher Jarrod Saltalamacchia.\n\nRoss suffered two concussions during the 2013 season and spent over two months on the disabled list; however, his health returned and he played a key role in Boston's run to the World Series championship over the St. Louis Cardinals that year, starting in four games during the series and driving in the game-winning run with an RBI double in Game 5. He was also behind the plate to catch the series-clinching out in Game 6 when Koji Uehara struck out Matt Carpenter.\n\nIn 2014, Ross played as Jon Lester's personal catcher.\n\nThe Chicago Cubs announced on December 23, 2014, that they had signed Ross to a two-year, $5 million contract.\n\nOn May 9, 2015, in his first appearance as a pitcher in his professional baseball career, Ross recorded a perfect inning against the Milwaukee Brewers. On July 26, he repeated the feat against the Philadelphia Phillies, then led off the next inning by hitting a home run off of Héctor Neris.\n\nOn April 21, 2016, Ross caught his first no-hitter, against the Cincinnati Reds, his former team, with starting pitcher Jake Arrieta. Ross hit his 100th home run off of Adam Morgan of the Philadelphia Phillies on May 27, 2016.\n\nRoss announced his plans to retire following the 2016 season, after playing 15 seasons in the major leagues. During Game 7 of the 2016 MLB World Series, Ross hit a home run making him the oldest player to do so in World Series history. On January 14, 2017, the Cubs named Ross as a special assistant to baseball operations for the 2017 season.\n\nFollowing his retirement from the MLB, Ross joined the Kansas Stars, an independent baseball team made of former MLB stars who play an abbreviated tournament lasting a few weeks out of the year.\n\nThe Cubs named Ross a special assistant after his retirement. ESPN hired Ross as a baseball color analyst in January 2017.\n\nOn October 24, 2019, the Cubs hired Ross as their manager to replace Joe Maddon, signing him to a three-year contract.\n\nOn March 1, 2017, Ross was revealed as one of the contestants on season 24 of \"Dancing with the Stars\" and was paired with professional dancer Lindsay Arnold. Ross is the first professional baseball player ever to compete on the show. Despite only having the sixth-highest scoring average, Ross and Arnold outlasted higher-scoring couples and ended up placing runner-up to winner Rashad Jennings and partner Emma Slater.\n\nRoss is married to Hyla Ross. Together they have three children. As of 2016, they resided in Tallahassee, Florida.\n\nRoss is a Christian.\n\nRoss has worked with several Chicago charities including Cradle to Crayons that benefits underprivileged Chicago youth.\n\nRoss worked with author Don Yaeger, on a book titled \" Teammate: My Life in Baseball,\" which was published in May 2017.\n\nHe has made an appearance on \"Saturday Night Live, \" along with some of his teammates, to celebrate the Cubs championship win. Ross has also made an appearance in the recent commercials for \"The Bryzzo Souvenir Company\" as an intern trying to meet the standards and requests of his bosses, Kris Bryant and Anthony Rizzo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157261", "title": "Bajío International Airport", "text": "Bajío International Airport\n\nBajío International Airport, officially known as Aeropuerto Internacional de Guanajuato (Guanajuato International Airport) is an international airport located in Silao, Guanajuato, Mexico. It handles national and international air traffic of the area that includes the city of León and the state capital, Guanajuato. Guanajuato International Airport is an important connecting point for some flights from Mexico City to the United States. The general interior director announced plans to build a cargo terminal and for the construction of a second runway. The facility replaced the San Carlos Airport which is now part of the urban center of León. In late 2015, work began in the construction of a taxiway to be running parallel to the whole length of the runway. In August 2016, the airport opened its first and only VIP lounge, while in January 2017, work began in the modernization of the whole terminal, including expansion of the departures level as well as relocation of the customs and immigration check. Work was completed in mid 2018.\n\nIt is one of the ten busiest airports in Mexico; it handled 2,746,824 passengers in 2019, an increase of 18.21% from previous year.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157263", "title": "John Willock", "text": "John Willock\n\nJohn Willock (or Willocks or Willox) (c. 1515 – 4 December 1585) was a Scottish reformer.\n\nHe was a native of Ayrshire and was educated at the University of Glasgow.\n\nAfter being a monk for a short time he embraced the reformed religion and went to London, where, about 1542, he became chaplain to Henry Grey, afterwards Duke of Suffolk, the father of Lady Jane Grey.\n\nOn the accession of Mary to the English throne in 1553 he went to Emden in Friesland, where he practised as a physician, varying this profession with visits to Scotland. He was associated with the leading Scottish reformers in their opposition to the queen regent, Mary of Lorraine, and the Roman Catholic religion, and in 1558 he returned definitely to his native land.\n\nWillock now began to preach and in 1559 was outlawed. Popular sympathy, however, rendered this sentence fruitless, and in the same year, being Knox's deputy as minister of St Giles' Cathedral, Edinburgh, he frustrated the efforts of the regent to restore the Roman Catholic religion, and administered the communion for the first time in accordance with the ideas of the reformers. He was one of the four ministers chosen by the convention of October 1559 to seats on the council of government, and was one of those appointed to compile the \"First Book of Discipline\".\n\nAbout 1562 he became rector of All Saints Church, Loughborough in Leicestershire, but he retained his connection with the Scottish church and was Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland in 1562, and again in 1564, in 1565 and in 1568.\n\nHe travelled to Scotland in May 1568, and wrote that people of the north of England, who were \"mere ignorant of religion and altogether untaught\" were pleased at the news that Mary, Queen of Scots had escaped from Lochleven Castle.\n\nHe died at Loughborough on 4 December 1585.\n"}
{"id": "2157271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157271", "title": "Canonical analysis", "text": "Canonical analysis\n\nIn statistics, canonical analysis (from bar, measuring rod, ruler) belongs to the family of regression methods for data analysis. Regression analysis quantifies a relationship between a predictor variable and a criterion variable by the coefficient of correlation \"r\", coefficient of determination \"r\", and the standard regression coefficient \"β\". Multiple regression analysis expresses a relationship between a set of predictor variables and a single criterion variable by the multiple correlation \"R\", multiple coefficient of determination R², and a set of standard partial regression weights \"β\", \"β\", etc. Canonical variate analysis captures a relationship between a set of predictor variables and a set of criterion variables by the canonical correlations \"ρ\", \"ρ\", ..., and by the sets of canonical weights C and D.\n\nCanonical analysis belongs to a group of methods which involve solving the characteristic equation for its latent roots and vectors. It describes formal structures in hyperspace invariant with respect to the rotation of their coordinates. In this type of solution, rotation leaves many optimizing properties preserved, provided it takes place in certain ways and in a subspace of its corresponding hyperspace. This rotation from the maximum intervariate correlation structure into a different, simpler and more meaningful structure increases the interpretability of the canonical weights C and D. In this the canonical analysis differs from Harold Hotelling’s (1936) canonical variate analysis (also called the canonical correlation analysis), designed to obtain maximum (canonical) correlations between the predictor and criterion canonical variates. The difference between the canonical variate analysis and canonical analysis is analogous to the difference between the principal components analysis and factor analysis, each with its characteristic set of commonalities, eigenvalues and eigenvectors.\n\nCanonical analysis is a multivariate technique which is concerned with determining the relationships between groups of variables in a data set. The data set is split into two groups \"X\" and \"Y\", based on some common characteristics. The purpose of canonical analysis is then to find the relationship between \"X\" and \"Y\", i.e. can some form of \"X\" represent \"Y\". It works by finding the linear combination of \"X\" variables, i.e. \"X\", \"X\" etc., and linear combination of \"Y\" variables, i.e. \"Y\", \"Y\" etc., which are most highly correlated. This combination is known as the \"first canonical variates\" which are usually denoted \"U\" and \"V\", with the pair of \"U\" and \"V\" being called a \"canonical function\". The next canonical functions, \"U\" and \"V\" are then restricted so that they are uncorrelated with \"U\" and \"V\". Everything is scaled so that the variance equals 1.\n\nOne can also construct relationships which are made to agree with constraint restrictions arising from theory or to agree with common sense/intuition. These are called maximum correlation models. (Tofallis, 1999)\n\nMathematically, canonical analysis maximizes \"U′X′YV\" subject to \"U′X′XU\" = \"I\" and \"V′Y′YV\" = \"I\", where \"X\" and \"Y\" are the data matrices (row for instance and column for feature).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157272", "title": "Michael Copps Costello", "text": "Michael Copps Costello\n\nMichael Copps Costello (August 2, 1875 – March 22, 1936) was a Canadian printer, a medical graduate (who never practiced his profession) and the 19th mayor of Calgary, Alberta.\n\nWilliam Costello was born in Montreal, Quebec in 1875 to John William Costello and Elizabeth Copps. As a child, he was known as Copps Costello, the name by which he is described in the 1891 census for Calgary, having been enumerated as Michael William Costello in the 1881 census for Renfrew Village, Ontario. In adult life, he changed his middle name to his mother's maiden name, Copps, the name by which he was generally known.\n\nCopps arrived in Calgary on the historic first train to the city in 1883. His early education was in Calgary and he became an apprentice printer. After completing his apprenticeship, he began working for the Calgary Herald. He went on to study medicine at Queen's University in Kingston in 1904. He then went to London, England for a year's post-graduate education and continued with further medical studies at the Rotunda Hospital in Dublin, Ireland. While in Ireland, he visited his father's birthplace at Trienearagh, County Kerry. He married Pearl Corrigan in Kingston in 1910.\n\nMichael's father John William Costello was a trustee of the Separate School District of the Northwest Territories, and Chairman of the Board from 1899 to 1904 which would later become the Calgary Catholic School Board. The John Costello Catholic School is named in his honour.\n\nOn his return to Calgary, Costello entered municipal politics. In 1913 and 1914, he was an alderman on Calgary City Council. In the latter year, he was chosen to carry the responsibilities of acting mayor, during Mayor Sinnott's absence of three months. In the election that year, he was elected Mayor of Calgary. He spent four years as mayor from January 2, 1915 to January 2, 1919. Costello served as president of the Alberta Urban Municipalities Association in 1915-1916.\n\nCostello ran unsuccessfully for mayor in the 1922 municipal election. He ran unsuccessfully as a Conservative MLA candidate in the Calgary electoral riding in the 1921 and 1926 Alberta general elections.\n\nFollowing his retirement from the mayoralty, Costello became connected with the Calgary Iron Works, where he worked in an executive capacity for many years before retiring for health reasons.\n\nCostello was a founding member of the Southern Alberta Pioneer and Old Timers' Association and served as Grand Knight on the Calgary Council of the Knights of Columbus.\n\nCostello died in 1936, aged 60 and is buried in Saint Mary's Pioneer Cemetery in Calgary.\n"}
{"id": "2157276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157276", "title": "Terry Cashman", "text": "Terry Cashman\n\nTerry Cashman (born Dennis Minogue, July 5, 1941, in New York City) is a record producer and singer-songwriter, best known for his 1981 hit, \"Talkin' Baseball\". While the song is well recognized today, it was all but ignored by typical Top 40 radio during its chart life, making only the Billboard Adult Contemporary chart.\n\nCashman was the lead singer for a band called The Chevrons in the late 1950s through the early 1960s. He also played Minor League Baseball in the Detroit Tigers organization at around the same time.\n\nIn 1967, Cashman teamed up with Gene Pistilli and Tommy West to form the pop-folk group Cashman, Pistilli and West. Their debut album, \"Bound to Happen\" (1967), included the Cashman-Pistilli composition \"Sunday Will Never Be the Same\", a No. 9 hit on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 for Spanky and Our Gang that year and No. 7 in Canada.\n\nCashman, Pistilli and West had a 1969 No. 22 hit single (#15 in Canada), \"Medicine Man\", under the name Buchanan Brothers. The follow-up \"Son of a Lovin' Man\" hit No. 50 in Canada.\n\nIn November 1972, Cashman & West's song \"American City Suite\" hit No. 27 on the \" Billboard\" chart and No. 25 on the Canadian \"RPM\" chart. Cashman, Pistilli and West (later reduced to Cashman & West) enjoyed modest success, recording six albums through 1975. The Cashman-West team also produced all the hit recordings of singer-songwriter Jim Croce. In 1975 they launched Lifesong Records, which would have hits including \"Shannon\" by Henry Gross and \"Ariel\" by Dean Friedman. \n\nIn 1973, one of the Partridge family episodes featured a song with the music and lyrics by Terry Cashman and T.P. West called Sunshine Eyes.\n\nInspired by a picture he had received of Willie Mays, Duke Snider, Joe DiMaggio and Mickey Mantle, Cashman decided to write a song dedicated to 1950s baseball. The popular choral refrain in the song \"Talkin' Baseball\" — \"Willie, Mickey, and The Duke\" — immediately struck a chord with fans in 1981 who were disappointed by the Major League Baseball strike that summer.\n\nCashman has since recorded multiple versions of the song for different Major League Baseball teams. Because of this, he is now known as \"The Balladeer of Baseball\". He also recorded a parody of the song in 1992, \"Talkin' Softball,\" for the end credits \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Homer at the Bat.\"\n\nThe Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum honored Cashman in summer 2011 as part of its induction weekend. Cashman performed his ballpark anthem once again during ceremonies on July 23, 2011, a day before Roberto Alomar, Bert Blyleven and Pat Gillick were inducted.\n\nIn 2011, he was inducted into the Irish American Baseball Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157281", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Haarlem-Amsterdam", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Haarlem-Amsterdam\n\nThe Diocese of Haarlem-Amsterdam (, ) is a Latin diocese of the Catholic Church in the Netherlands. As one of the seven suffragans in the ecclesiastical province of the Metropolitan Archbishop of Utrecht, the diocesan territory comprises the north west of the Netherlands, including the cities of Haarlem (capital of Noord Holland) and Amsterdam (in the same province and Dutch nominal national capital).\n\nMonsignor Jozef Marianus Punt has been the Bishop of the Diocese of Haarlem-Amsterdam since 2001.\n\nThe diocese was founded on 12 May 1559, on territory (central and North Holland) canonically split off from the Diocese of Utrecht, which was simultaneously promoted to archbishopric and became its Metropolitan. In 1592 (during the Eighty Years War, during which the Spanish crown lost Holland) it was suppressed, and its territory was immediately included in the new Dutch Mission \"sui iuris\" 'Batavia', soon promoted an Apostolic vicariate.\n\nIn 1833, the diocese was restored as (pre-diocesan) \"Apostolic Administration of Haarlem\", which was on 4 March 1853 promoted as \"Diocese of Haarlem\".\n\nOn 16 July 1955, it lost territories, to the existing Diocese of Breda, and to establish the Diocese of Groningen and Diocese of Rotterdam.\n\nIn 2001, monsignor Jozef Marianus (Jos) Punt became the Bishop of the Diocese of Haarlem-Amsterdam. \n\nOn 7 October 2008, it was renamed as Diocese of Haarlem–Amsterdam.\n\nOn 25 October 2011, it was made known that Pope Benedict XVI had accepted the resignation of Bishop Johannes Gerardus Maria van Burgsteden, as the Auxiliary Bishop of the Diocese. Monsignor Johannes Maria Willibrordus Hendriks was appointed as the new auxiliary bishop.\n\nThe cathedral episcopal see of the Diocese of Haarlem-Amsterdam is the Cathedral of Saint Bavo, a minor basilica in Haarlem, which city also has two former cathedrals: Saint Joseph Church and Saint Bavo Church (now a Protestant church). Other minor basilicas in the diocese are Basilica of Saint John the Baptist in Laren and Basilica of Saint Nicholas in Amsterdam, both in the province of North Holland.\n\nIn 2013, the diocese pastorally served 462,000 Catholics (15.8% of 2,915,000 total) on 2,912 km² in 145 parishes, with 194 priests (161 diocesan, 33 religious), 54 deacons, 557 lay religious (81 brothers, 476 sisters).\n\n"}
{"id": "2157284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157284", "title": "List of hospitals in Missouri", "text": "List of hospitals in Missouri\n\nThis is a list of hospitals in Missouri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157292", "title": "The Libertine (2004 film)", "text": "The Libertine (2004 film)\n\nThe Libertine is a 2004 British-Australian drama film, the first film directed by Laurence Dunmore. It was adapted by Stephen Jeffreys from his play of the same name, starring Johnny Depp, John Malkovich, Samantha Morton and Rosamund Pike.\n\nDepp stars as John Wilmot, 2nd Earl of Rochester, a notorious rake and libertine poet in the court of King Charles II of England. Samantha Morton plays Elizabeth Barry, an actress whose budding talent blossoms and makes her much in demand under Rochester's tutelage. Wilmot and Barry become lovers. John Malkovich plays King Charles II, who is torn between his affection for Wilmot and the danger posed by his displays of contempt for his sovereign. Themes explored in the film include the corruption of a people by their self-indulgent monarch and the pursuit of hedonism.\n\nThe film was shot on location on the Isle of Man and Wales. The setting for Rochester's home of Adderbury house was filmed on location at Montacute House, Montacute, Somerset and Charlecote Park, Warwickshire\n\nJohn Wilmot, Second Earl of Rochester (Depp), delivers a prologue of themes of his fondness for drink, his sexual proclivities, and his disdain for his audience.\n\nKing Charles II (Malkovich) retracts his banishment of the earl as he has need of him in the House of Lords. Back in London, Rochester finds his \"Merry Gang\" friends, George Etherege (Hollander) and Charles Sackville (Vegas), in a bawdy house. Rochester encounters on the street the thief Alcock (Coyle). Impressed by his dishonesty, Rochester hires him as his gentleman. The Merry Gang introduce to Rochester who will be its newest member, 18-year-old Billy Downs (Friend). Rochester warns Downs, \"Young man, you will die of this company.\"\n\nThe Merry Gang attend a play where the actress Elizabeth Barry (Morton) is booed off the stage, refusing to participate in a curtain call, and is fired. Rochester is taken with Barry, secures her re-employment with the theatre company, and undertakes to coach her in acting. Barry's acting improves dramatically and she delivers a brilliant performance in her next production. The King approaches Barry to spy on Rochester as to the progress of the intended tribute to the French Ambassador.\n\nCharles, in need of money from France, asks Rochester to write a play in honour of the French Ambassador's visit. The king requests it be a \"testament\" to his reign. Rochester writes \"Sodom, or the Quintessence of Debauchery\", a scathing satire of the king's reign, which he claims is \"a testament to Charles\" — just what the king had asked for. The play involves vulgar language, simulated sex acts, and Rochester portraying the king being serviced. At the premiere, the king interrupts the play and on the stage confronts Rochester. Downs is injured in a sword fight outside the home of a Constable; Rochester backs away from his dying friend, whispering, \"I told you.\"\n\nHiding from the king in the English countryside and sick with symptoms of syphilis, Rochester peddles phony gynaecological \"treatments\" for women, including the selling of \"potions\" made from Alcock's urine. Rochester's face has become disfigured by syphilitic gummata, which he hides beneath a mask. Charles eventually tracks down Rochester, but decides that the worst punishment possible is to simply \"let you be you.\" Rochester returns to his estate and wife, Elizabeth (Pike), admitting to having been constantly for five years under the influence of \"the drink\". Elizabeth declares her love for him.\n\nCharles' choice of heir, his Roman Catholic brother James, Duke of York, leads to a showdown with Parliament with the Exclusion Bill that would deny James the throne. Rochester uses make-up and a silver nose tip to hide the indications of syphilis as he enters the House of Lords hobbling on two canes. His denunciation in the Lords of the bill ingratiates the appreciation of the king when it is defeated. When Rochester reveals his desire to have wanted Barry as his wife she reveals she never had the desire to be the wife of anyone, she had a daughter by him that he was unaware of, and this daughter is called Elizabeth.\n\nRochester returns to his estate where he is bedridden in the care of Elizabeth, his mother, a priest summoned to \"bring God to him\" as she did not want Rochester to die as an atheist, and Alcock. Before he dies, Rochester asks the priest to recite from Book of Isaiah, chapter 53; he also asks his wife to retell the story of how he had abducted her when she was 18 years old and they fell in love. Rochester's death is followed by a scene of Elizabeth Barry playing the role of his wife in \"The Man of Mode\", the play about him written by his friend Etheridge.\n\nThe epilogue is Rochester slipping into the darkness of an increasingly fading candlelight, asking \"Do you like me now?\"\n\n\nThe score to the film was composed by Michael Nyman, and released as \"The Libertine: Music for the Film by Laurence Dunmore\" in November 2005. The music represents Nyman's last score for a major motion picture to date, and his last soundtrack release.\n\nThe film received mixed to negative reviews from critics. Film review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported that 33% of 122 sampled critics gave the film positive reviews and that it got a rating average of 4.7 out of 10.\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film 3 stars out of 4 praising Johnny Depp's performance, stating \"Libertines are not built for third acts. No self-respecting libertine lives that long. Johnny Depp finds sadness in the earl's descent, and a desire to be loved even as he makes himself unlovable. What a brave actor Depp is, to take on a role like this. Still, at the screenplay stage, 'The Libertine' might have seemed a safer bet than \"\", a movie [which] studio executives reportedly thought was unreleasable.\"\n\nThe film has grossed $4,835,065 in North America and $6,016,999 in other territories, for a total of $10,852,064 worldwide.\n\n\"The Libertine\" was nominated in eight categories in the British Independent Film Awards for 2005, and won in one category, gaining a Best Performance by a Supporting Actor or Actress in a British Independent Film award for Rosamund Pike. The other nominations were:\n\n\n\"The Libertine\" is available on DVD as of 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157300", "title": "St Sunday Crag", "text": "St Sunday Crag\n\nSt Sunday Crag is a fell in the English Lake District, part of the Fairfield group in the Eastern Fells. It is a prominent feature in the Patterdale skyline, with a distinctive rounded shape. Indeed, it figures so finely in views from the upper reach of the lake that it is sometimes referred to as ‘the Ullswater Fell’.\n\nSt Sunday Crag is the high point on the north-eastern ridge of Fairfield, which runs for two miles before descending to the valley floor behind Patterdale village. From the flat Fairfield summit a rough slope descends over the subsidiary top of Cofa Pike to the col at Deepdale Hause at \"c\"680 m (2,200 ft). This is a narrow point on the ridge, deeply scarred by pedestrian traffic. The ground now rises again to St Sunday Crag, soaring above the dales on either side. Beyond the summit there is a swift drop to the lower plateau of Birks and beyond this is the further satellite of Arnison Crag.\n\nThe top of St Sunday Crag is triangular in plan with a third ridge running off due east. This crosses a depression (The Cape) before the lower top of Gavel Pike at 784 m (2,572 ft) is reached. From below this is a shapely pyramid worthy of the ‘pike’ designation, although its subsidiarity is all too plain from above. Below Gavel Pike is the further top of Lord's Seat before the short east ridge falls away over rough ground to Deepdale.\n\nIt is the north-western face above Grisedale that is St Sunday Crag's chief glory. The long graceful curve of the top is set above a wall of crag half a mile long, the whole face being neatly symmetrical. A series of vertical gullies slice through the crags, which together with the intervening ridges provide sport for scramblers and climbers. The crags peter out at about 550 m (1,800 ft), to be replaced by a steep scree slope falling to the valley floor, a further 250 m (800 ft) below. Fine views of this face can be had from Helvellyn and Birkhouse Moor across the valley.\n\nTo the south-east of the fell is the valley of Deepdale, separating St Sunday Crag from Hart Crag and Hartsop above How. This face too is steep and rough, although without sustained outcropping of rock. Between Gavel Pike and Birks is Cold Cove, a hanging valley cut off by Deepdale. All of the becks from St Sunday Crag reach the head of Ullswater at Patterdale.\n\nGeologically the summit area is andesite, overlaying the St Sunday Crag Member, a 50-metre-thick layer of rhyodactic lapilli-tuff which breaks the surface on the east ridge.\n\nGiven the fine ridges to either side, the summit of St Sunday Crag is surprisingly level and green. Two cairns sit upon the highest area, where rocks protrude through the turf. A further cairn at the northern end of the summit area marks the prime viewpoint for Ullswater. A quartz cross, now hard to find amid the bilberry, lies above the crags marking the top of East Chockstone Gully. The view takes much of the District, Striding Edge and the crags of Fairfield being particularly prominent. Gavel Pike provides good views of the head of Deepdale.\n\nThe main starting point for ascents is Patterdale, either by climbing or traversing Birks. Arnison Crag can also be thrown in for good measure and the north-east ridge gives fantastic rearward views of Ullswater. A further Patterdale alternative is the Elmhow zig-zag which climbs the Grisedale face just north of the crags. Lord's Seat and the east ridge can be climbed from Deepdale, starting from the car park at Bridgend. St Sunday Crag can also be ascended from the west by making first for Grisedale Tarn. This puts the summit into reach from Grasmere or Dunmail Raise.\n\nSt Sunday Crag now finds itself on Alfred Wainwright's popular Coast to Coast Walk, vastly increasing the traffic across the top.\n\nSaint Sunday is a local name for Saint Dominic, though it is not certain how this saint’s name became attached to the fell.\n"}
{"id": "2157309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157309", "title": "Undertow", "text": "Undertow\n\nUndertow may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157314", "title": "Liede", "text": "Liede\n\nThe Liede is a little river that used to connect Haarlem Lake with the Spaarne, just south of Spaarndam, at a small lake called the Mooie Nel.\n\nAfter the lake was pumped dry in 1852, the Liede became a side-river of the Ringvaart. The Liede and Mooie Nel are nowadays important for recreational boat sailing. There is also an ice-skating club called \"De Liede\".\n"}
{"id": "2157320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157320", "title": "William the Breton", "text": "William the Breton\n\nWilliam the Breton (c. 1165 – c. 1225), French chronicler and poet, was a contemporary and dependent of French king Philip Augustus for whom he served in diplomatic missions and for whom he wrote a Latin prose chronicle and a Latin epic poem.\n\nWilliam the Breton was, as his name indicates, born in Brittany, probably in the town of Saint-Pol-de-Léon. He was educated at Mantes and at the University of Paris. William gained the status of \"Master\" and was recorded by his contemporary Giles of Paris as one of the fifteen sages of Paris of his day. Later, he became chaplain to the French king Philip Augustus, who employed him on diplomatic errands, and entrusted him with the education of his natural son, Pierre Charlot. William is supposed to have been present at the Battle of Bouvines.\n\nHis works are the \"Philippide\" and the \"Gesta Philippi H. regis Francorum\". The former, a classicizing Latin epic poem in XII books and composed in three redactions, gives some very interesting details about Philip Augustus and his time, including some information about military matters, and shows that William was an excellent Latin scholar.\n\nIn its final form the \"Gesta\" is an epitome of the work of Rigord, who wrote a life of Philip Augustus from 1179 to 1206, and an original continuation by William himself from 1207 to 1220. In both works William speaks in very laudatory terms of the king; but his writings are valuable because he had personal knowledge of many of the facts which he relates. He also wrote a poem \"Karlotis\", dedicated to Charlot, which is lost.\n\nWilliam's works have been edited with introduction by HF Delaborde as \"Œuvres de Rigord et de Guillaume le Breton\" (Paris, 1882–1885), and have been translated into French by Guizot in \"Collection des mémoires relatifs a l'histoire de France\", tomes xi and xii (Paris, 1823–1835). See Delaborde's introduction, and Auguste Molinier, \"Les Sources de l'histoire de France\", tome iii (Paris, 1903). Book I of the Philippide, along with relevant selections of the Gesta, has been translated into English by Gregory P. Stringer.\n"}
{"id": "2157323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157323", "title": "Weinheim", "text": "Weinheim\n\nWeinheim is situated on the Bergstraße theme route on the western rim of the Odenwald. The old town lies in the valley, with the new part of town further to the west. The Market Square is filled with numerous cafes, as well as the old \"Rathaus\" (guildhall). Further to the south is the \"Schlossgarten\" (Palace Garden) and the \"Exotenwald\" (Exotic Forest), which contains species of trees imported from around the world, but mostly from North America and Japan.\n\nWeinheim celebrated its 1250th anniversary in 2005.\n\nThe earliest record of Weinheim dates back to 755 CE, when the name \"Winenheim\" was recorded in the Lorsch codex, the record book of Lorsch Abbey.\n\nIn 1000, Emperor Otto III bestowed on Weinheim the right to hold markets, and in 1065 the right to mint and issue coins. A new town developed next to the old town from 1250. In 1308, the old town was transferred to the Electorate of the Palatinate. From 1368 the whole town belonged to the Electorate of the Palatinate, and since the end of the 14th century to the Heidelberg \"Oberamt\" district. With the transfer to Baden in 1803, Weinheim became the seat of its own \"Amt\", which was unified with Landkreis Mannheim in 1936. From 1938 onwards Weinheim belonged to Landkreis Mannheim until January 1, 1973, when the Rhein-Neckar-Kreis was formed.\n\nA Jewish community in Weinheim is first recorded in 1228. There were persecutions in Weinheim in 1298 (Rintfleisch massacres) and 1348–49 (Black Death persecutions). The Jews were expelled from Weinheim in 1391. The Weinheim Jewish community began to grow again in the Thirty Years' War. There was a synagogue, a beth midrash, and a mikveh, and, in the 19th century, a school for boys and a teacher-training college. The synagogue was destroyed in the Kristallnacht (9–10 November 1938) and the last few Jews sent to Gurs on 22 October 1940.\n\n\nWeinheim's town museum occupies what used to be the local headquarters of the Teutonic Order and holds exhibits about Weinheim and its surroundings: archaeology from the prehistoric through to the Merovingian dynasty, the highlight of which is the Nächstenbach bronze hoard of 76 objects from the late Bronze Age; displays documenting the Medieval and modern social history of the town and works from contemporary artists.\n\n\n\nWeinheim has two main train stations on the Main-Neckar Railway, these being Weinheim (Bergstraße) station (served by Regional and long-distance IC trains) and Lützelsachsen (served by Regional trains). These provide connections to Frankfurt, Hamburg and other destinations within Germany. \n\nWeinheim is also served by the OEG tramway, which is used daily by people who use this to commute to the cities of Mannheim and Heidelberg.\n\nThe closest airports to Weinheim are:\n\n\nWeinheim is twinned with:\n\nThese are the population figures for particular years. There are drawn from guesses, \"'Volkszählungsergebnisse\" (semi-official figures, demarcated by a ¹) and official statistics based on place of residence (Hauptwohnsitz).\n\n¹ These are taken from a Volkszählungsergebnes.\n\nThe town of Weinheim has made the following people honorary citizens (\"Ehrenbürger\"):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157327", "title": "Motu people", "text": "Motu people\n\nThe Motu are native inhabitants of Papua New Guinea, living along the southern coastal area of the country. Their indigenous language is also known as Motu, and like several other languages of the region is an Austronesian language. They and the Koitabu people are the original inhabitants and owners of the land on which Port Moresby — the national capital city — stands. The largest Motu village is Hanuabada, northwest of Port Moresby.\n\nFriedrich Ratzel in \"The History of Mankind\" reported in 1896 on tattooing in Melanesia. Among the relatively light-skinned Motu he found tattooing in patterns similar to those of Micronesia. He also reported, among the old women, blackening the body with a kind of earth which gives a lustre like black lead. This was said to be a sign of mourning.\n\nCharles Gabriel Seligman came into contact with the Motu, in 1904. He noted that, unlike many of their neighbors in the region, the Motu did not practice exogamy. Every year, they practiced the \"hiri\", when community members made trading voyages through the Gulf of Papua. Women made pottery for sale through the \"hiri\".\n\nDespite increased westernization, the Motu still engage in some traditional practices. These include the value of traditional music and dance, observing the bridewealth and still retaining most of the land rights in the Port Moresby region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157329", "title": "List of women philosophers", "text": "List of women philosophers\n\nThis is a list of women philosophers ordered alphabetically by surname. Although often overlooked in mainstream historiography, women have engaged in philosophy throughout the field's history. Some notable philosophers include Hypatia of Alexandria (ca. 370–415 CE), Anne Conway (1631–1679), Mary Wollstonecraft (1759–1797), Sarah Margaret Fuller (1810–1850), Edith Stein (1891–1942), Ayn Rand (1905–1982), Hannah Arendt (1906–1975), Simone de Beauvoir (1908–1986), Iris Murdoch (1919–1999), Elizabeth Anscombe (1919–2001), Mary Midgley (1919–2018), Philippa Foot (1920–2010), Mary Warnock (1924–2019), Joyce Mitchell Cook (1933–2015, the first African American woman to receive a Ph.D. in philosophy), Cora Diamond (born 1937), and Susan Haack (born 1945).\n\n\nFrom the fall of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century C.E. to the Renaissance in the 16th century.\n\nThe seventeenth and early twentieth centuries roughly mark the beginning and the end of modern philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157333", "title": "Motu language", "text": "Motu language\n\nMotu (sometimes called Pure Motu or True Motu to distinguish it from Hiri Motu) is a Central Papuan Tip language that is spoken by the Motuans, an indigenous ethnic group of Papua New Guinea. It is commonly used today in the region, particularly around the capital, Port Moresby.\n\nA simplified form of Motu developed as a trade language in the Papuan region, in the southeast of the main island of New Guinea, originally known as Police Motu, and today known as Hiri Motu. After Tok Pisin and English, Hiri Motu was at the time of independence the third most commonly spoken of the more than 800 languages of Papua New Guinea, although its use has been declining for some years, mainly in favour of Tok Pisin.\n\nMotu is classified as one of the Malayo-Polynesian languages and bears some linguistic similarities to Polynesian and Micronesian languages.\n\nMotu is a typical Austronesian language in that it is heavily vowel-based. Every Motu syllable ends in a vowel sound — this may be preceded by a single consonant (there are no \"consonant clusters\"). Vowel sounds may be either monophthongs (consisting of a single basic sound) or diphthongs (consisting of more than one basic sound). There are only five \"pure\" vowel sounds (approximately those of Latin) /a, e, i, o, u/; Motu diphthongs are written (and pronounced) as combinations of two \"pure\" vowels. The diphthongs \"oi\" and \"oe\" (both approximately like the diphthong in the English word \"boy\"), \"\"ai\" and \"ae\" (both approximately like the diphthong in the English word \"high\") and \"ao\" and \"au\" (both approximately like the diphthong in the English word \"cow\") are the only vowel sounds that present difficulties.\n\nIn practice, the letters \"r\" and \"l\" form a single phoneme to native speakers of Motu. There is no letter \"f\": When it occurs in loan words, it is usually represented as \"p\".\nMotu Braille has the usual letter assignments apart from ḡ, which is .\n\n"}
{"id": "2157335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157335", "title": "¿Quién será?", "text": "¿Quién será?\n\n\"¿Quién será?\" is a bolero-mambo written by Mexican composer Luis Demetrio, who sold the rights to fellow songwriter Pablo Beltrán Ruiz. Beltrán recorded the song for the first time with his orchestra in 1953. Pedro Infante, for whom the song was written, recorded it in 1954.\n\nNorman Gimbel took the song, removed the somewhat melancholy Spanish lyrics about a man wondering if he shall ever love again, and wrote brand-new English lyrics about a man praising his dancing partner's ability to affect his heart with how she \"sways\" when they dance. This new song, titled \"Sway\", has become a standard in both the pop and jazz repertoire. The first version to achieve considerable success in the United States was recorded by singer Dean Martin with the Dick Stabile orchestra in 1954.\n\nThe first rendition of Luis Demetrio's \"¿Quién será?\" was recorded by Pablo Beltrán Ruiz with his orchestra as an instrumental cha-cha-chá in 1953. This version was later included on the LP \"South of the Border / Al sur de la frontera - Cha-cha-cha\". According to Demetrio, Beltrán only contributed the first few chords of the song. The rest of the composition and the original lyrics (in Spanish) were all written by Demetrio. However, because Demetrio sold his rights to Beltrán, the song has often been misattributed to the latter.\n\nBeltrán re-recorded the song on numerous occasions including an upbeat cumbia version for the album \"Mister Cumbia\" (1966), a ska version for the album \"Caliente, caliente... a go-go\" (1966) and a boogaloo version for the album \"Rosita bonita\" (1968), all released by RCA Victor. The cumbia version was featured in the 1967 Cantinflas film \"Su Excelencia\".\n\nDemetrio had written the song specifically for Mexican singer Pedro Infante, who performed it in the film \"School for Tramps\" in 1954 and later recorded it for Peerless Records. It became one of Infante's signature songs and a hit across Latin America. Shortly after, Germán Valdés, better known as Tin Tan, performed a parody version of Infante's rendition in the film \"The Viscount of Monte Cristo\".\n\nIn 1954, the English lyrics were written by Norman Gimbel and recorded by Dean Martin backed by Dick Stabile's orchestra. This recording reached number 15 on the Billboard magazine best-seller chart and number six on the UK chart. The single was released with the B-side \"Money Burns a Hole in My Pocket\" (Jule Styne, Bob Hilliard) in the US, while the British version was backed by \"Pretty as a Picture\" (Johnny Anz). The song was well-received by critics, being described as a \"happy reading of a listenable ditty in the Latin-American manner\" by a contemporary reviewer.\n\nCharts\n\nBritish electronica band Shaft recorded \"Sway\" in 1999, retitled as \"(Mucho Mambo) Sway\", and released it in August 1999 as their debut single. This version peaked at No. 2 on the UK Singles Chart, topped the New Zealand Singles Chart, and reached the top 10 in Denmark, Ireland, Norway, Sweden, and on the Canadian Singles Chart. Although it did not appear on Canada's \"RPM\" Top Singles chart, it did debut and peak at No. 10 on the \"RPM\" Dance chart. The single was later included on Shaft's 2001 album \"Pick Up on This\".\n\n\"Sway\" was covered by Canadian singer Michael Bublé for his debut major-label studio album, \"Michael Bublé\", released in 2003. \"Sway\" was chosen for release as the album's third single, and was released in Australia on June 22, 2004.\n\n\"Sway\" was only released as an individual single in Australia. In many other countries, the release of the track was held back until July 26, and packaged as a double A-side with the album's fourth single, \"Spider-Man Theme\". However, due to its popularity with Australian radio stations, the track was given a separate release in the region, with \"Spider-Man Theme\" being released three months later in September 2004, as a separate release. Bublé's version of the song has appeared in such television shows and films as \"Las Vegas\", \"\", \"Malcolm in the Middle\", \"The Wedding Date\", \"Da Kath and Kim Code\" and \"No Reservations\". The music video for the track was directed by Peter Kasden, who also filmed a music video for the single's B-side, \"Moondance\", which was released exclusively to Australian music channels to promote the release of the single. The video features scenes of Bublé performing the song in the studio, intercut with scenes of Bublé driving a car through the Australian outback. The separate release, two music videos and strong radio airplay meant that \"Sway\" reached a peak of No. 15 on the ARIA Singles Chart, making it Bublé's highest charting single to that date.\n\n\nAmerican girl group The Pussycat Dolls recorded \"Sway\" for the \"Shall We Dance?\" soundtrack. The song was later included as a bonus track on their debut album \"PCD\" (2005).\n\nWhile reviewing the \"Shall We Dance?\" soundtrack, Heather Phares cited \"Sway\" as one of the highlights of the album. Ashley Spencer from the \"Orlando Sentinel\" described the rendition as having a \"mesmerizing rhythm\". While reviewing the DVD of \"Shall We Dance?\" Renata Joy of Dvdizzy.com pointed the song out as \"a catchy tune\". Rachel Sexton of MovieFreak.com called the cover \"great\" and noted it as \"a classic updated\".\n\nThe music video for \"Sway\" was directed by Steve Antin, the brother of The Pussycat Dolls creator, Robin Antin. The video features The Pussycat Dolls dancing against a backdrop of scenes from the movie. The music video was included as bonus clip in the DVD release of \"Shall We Dance\". At that point, the Pussycat Dolls were still recording their album PCD, and the group featured members of the original Pussycat Dolls burlesque troupe who remained after the re-casting process, such as Robin Antin, Cyia Batten, and Kasey Campbell. Reviewers for Comingsoon.net, Edward Douglas and Scott Chitwood described the video as \"sexy\" and \"stylish\". They also wrote that \"it perfectly fits the mood of the film.\" \"Slant Magazine's\" writer Ed Gonzales wondered if the editors of \"Maxim\" financed the video. Rachel Sexton of MovieFreak.com suggested buyers to skip the video calling it \"cheesy\". Renata Joy of Dvdizzy.com noted that \"the song is much more enjoyable when not watching the accompanying video.\" \"Sway\" was performed on \"Dancing with the Stars\" along with \"Don't Cha\" during the results show on January 27, 2006.\n\nDigital download\n\nCredits adapted from the liner notes of \"Shall We Dance - Soundtrack from the Motion Picture\".\n\n\n\"¿Quién será?\" and \"Sway\" have been recorded dozens of times by many artists over the decades, many of which have been included in feature films and TV episodes. This is merely a select list of popular recordings, not a comprehensive listing.\n\n\nThe song has also been translated and covered in several languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157339", "title": "A Chinese Syllabary Pronounced According to the Dialect of Canton", "text": "A Chinese Syllabary Pronounced According to the Dialect of Canton\n\nA Chinese Syllabary Pronounced According to the Dialect of Canton () is a book written by Wong Shik-Ling () within a few years before being published in Hong Kong, 1941. It is one of the most influential books on the research of Cantonese pronunciation. Many Chinese dictionaries later used Wong's Chinese character indices and system of phonetic symbols to denote the Cantonese pronunciation of Chinese characters. Because of its significance, the book has been reprinted many times after its first publishing.\n\n\nSome characters with multiple pronunciation are commented with meaning, short notes, or usage in each category.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157345", "title": "KDIZ (AM)", "text": "KDIZ (AM)\n\nKDIZ (1570 AM) is a radio station serving the Minneapolis/St. Paul metropolitan area, and licensed to Golden Valley, Minnesota. The station is owned by Salem Media Group.\n\nKDIZ's studios are located in Eagan, while its transmitter is located in St. Louis Park.\n\n1570 AM is a Mexican clear-channel frequency.\n\nThe station signed on the air on October 27, 1961 as KUXL and has a long history of being a religion-oriented radio station. In the 1960s and 1970s, KUXL played gospel and R&B music, prior to becoming full-time religious. During this period and for many years after, the station was restricted to daytime operation. Its studios and offices were originally located at 4820 Olson Highway in Golden Valley and later on Duluth Street. The transmitter and antenna were first co-located with KQRS (AM) on Highway 100 and later on the station's own tower a block away from the Duluth Street studios, next to Highway 100.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, the station was operated by Marvin Kosofsky. Kosofsky hired Bob Smith (a.k.a. Wolfman Jack), who relocated from Del Rio, Texas, to run the station with a mostly R&B format. Also at KUXL at this time were Art Hoehn (a.k.a. Fat Daddy Washington) and former KDWB personality Ralph Hull (a.k.a. Preacher Paul Anthony and The Nazz). It was this trio of broadcasters who took control of \"border blaster\" station XERB 1090, in Baja California, in 1965. They operated the \"Big X\" from Minneapolis initially, then relocated to Southern California in 1966.\n\nKUXL sponsored numerous concerts by such artists as Ike and Tina Turner, the Four Tops, BB King, Solomon Burke, the Temptations, Jimmy Reed, Jr. Walker, the Impressions and Fats Domino.\n\nKUXL was a ratings success in the early 1970s. Some of the on-the-air talent from that era included Maury Bernstein, a noted musicologist/folklorist who later hosted for National Public Radio. Bernstein was the major authority on Scandinavian music in the U.S. Bob Allard was famed Twin Cities talk show host and television (KMSP) newscaster. Allard was one of the best-known voices in Twin Cities broadcasting history. Allard was known for portraying the character \"Cactus Jim\" on both radio and television in Iowa in the 1950s. Chris Robbins, also known as John Ryan, also worked for WTCN-TV. Brian Tolzmann was the youngest major market news director in the country at the time. He later hosted a nationally syndicated radio show, and worked with former KUXL manager Wolfman Jack on several national concert shows. Steve Blitz and talk show hosts Joe Barbeau and Jim King were also part of the staff.\n\nThe call letters changed to KYCR in May 1988.\n\nKYCR was in 1994 purchased by Children's Broadcasting Corporation, parent of the Radio Aahs children's format, becoming a sister to Aahs flagship station WWTC (1280 AM). KYCR retained its religious format as studios were co-located with WWTC at Excelsior Boulevard and Highway 100 in St. Louis Park. In 1995, the transmitter was moved a few miles south of its longtime tower to WWTC's 4-tower transmission facility in St. Louis Park, west of Highway 100 and south of I-394.\n\nKYCR was acquired by religious and conservative broadcast company Salem Communications in 1998. Two years later, they bought WWTC, and both stations moved to the facility of Salem's KKMS in Eagan (transmission continued from the WWTC/KYCR site in St. Louis Park). From 2002 until 2007, KYCR was a time-shifted version of WWTC \"The Patriot\" as \"The Patriot II\". The format was then changed to a general talk format with its own identity, simply known as \"AM 1570: The New Talk of the Twin Cities\". In April 2007, KYCR lost syndicated talk-show host Don Imus from the lineup after the network cancelled the show. After two months of a \"Dr. Laura\" replay in the slot, the show was replaced by The War Room with Quinn and Rose from WPGB in Pittsburgh, becoming the first affiliate for the show in the midwest. Until April 2009, other programming included Dennis Miller, The Radio Factor, Laura Schlessinger, Lars Larson, Janet Parshall, and Mark Levin.\n\nOn August 13, 2008, North Dakota State University announced that KYCR would become the home of NDSU Bison football broadcasts for the 2008 season. This makes the station the first affiliate in the Twin Cities area for NDSU sports.\n\nThe station attempted yet another format change on March 30, 2009, this time to an all-business format, carrying programming from the Bloomberg News business network. The station's slogan changed to \"Business 1570 -- Twin Cities Business Radio.\"\n\nOn December 15, 2015, KYCR began stunting with a loop directing listeners to KDIZ 1440 AM, with KYCR's business news format moving to that station. On December 24th, Salem changed the call letters of 1570 AM to KDIZ. On January 11, 2016, the station relaunched as \"Wellness Radio\", a first-of-its-kind Health & Wellness talk format.\n\nOn November 30, 2019, KDIZ began stunting with a loop of morse code, unusual noises, radio crackle, and voice messages, and advising listeners to tune in on the morning of December 2nd for an announcement. On the promised date, KDIZ flipped to conservative talk as \"Freedom 1570\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157347", "title": "Seargent Smith Prentiss", "text": "Seargent Smith Prentiss\n\nSeargent Smith Prentiss (30 September 1808 in Portland, Maine – 1 July 1850 in Natchez, Mississippi) was an attorney and politician. He served as a state representative in Mississippi and then was elected in 1838 as US representative from the state in the Twenty-fifth United States Congress, serving one term from 1838 to 1839. Prentiss was noted as one of the most remarkable orators of his day. Daniel Webster, known himself as a great orator, said that he had never heard a speaker as powerful as Prentiss.\n\nPrentiss was born 30 September 1808, in Portland, Maine. He was the son of Captain William Prentiss, a prosperous shipmaster, and his wife. Seargent contracted a virulent fever as an infant, which caused the loss of the use of his limbs for several years. His right leg never fully recovered. \n\nDuring the War of 1812, the economic embargo against the United Kingdom brought his father to the verge of ruin. The family relocated to Gorham, Maine, near Seargent's maternal grandfather Major George Lewis and his wife.\n\nPrentiss attended Gorham Academy and Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine. He graduated from Bowdoin at age 17 and began the study of law in the office of Josiah Pierce in Gorham.\n\nAfter graduating from Bowdoin College in 1826, he went to Natchez, Mississippi as a teacher. He continued to study law and was admitted to the bar in 1829.\n\nIn 1832, he moved to Vicksburg, Mississippi and won a suit involving title to the most valuable part of the city. The property which he obtained as his fee made him one of the wealthiest men of Mississippi. He was elected to the State Legislature in 1835 as a Whig.\n\nIn July 1837, Democrats John F. H. Claiborne and Samuel J. Gholson were re-elected to the United States House of Representatives in a special election. In November 1837, Mississippi held the regular election. Prentiss launched a vigorous, partisan campaign. He and fellow Whig Thomas J. Word won in an upset. Claiborne and Gholson then argued that the July result entitled them to serve full terms. The House agreed to hear Prentiss. He spoke for nine hours over three days, packing the gallery, drawing Senators, and earning a national reputation for oratory and public admiration from leading Whigs including Senators Clay and Webster. The Elections Committee then required a third election. Held in April 1838, it confirmed the November result. Both Whigs were seated in May late in the second session, also serving for the third session.\n\nHe was publicly embarrassed by his mounting financial troubles. He had made property investments based on disputed land holdings. He served only one term in Congress.\n\nPrentiss later went on the lecture circuit. He reportedly rarely gave speeches from prepared notes and, instead, would ad-lib for hours to large crowds that often begged him for more.\nAfter Mississippi repudiated her state bonds, Prentiss, who had opposed this action, moved to New Orleans in 1845. He became a leader of the city's bar, and prominent in philanthropic work.\nHis death at the age of 41 in 1850 shocked the nation. Prentiss had been considered among the most gifted young men in the nation. He is buried at Gloucester Plantation Cemetery in Natchez.\n\nPrentiss County, Mississippi was named for Seargent Prentiss when it was formed on April 15, 1870. Prentiss, Mississippi was founded in 1903, and became the county seat of Jefferson Davis County, Mississippi in 1906.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157356", "title": "Aguascalientes International Airport", "text": "Aguascalientes International Airport\n\nLic. Jesús Terán Peredo International Airport (, ), also known as Aguascalientes International Airport, serves Aguascalientes, the capital city of the state of Aguascalientes in Mexico. It handles national and international air traffic for the city of Aguascalientes. The airport was named after Jesús Terán Peredo, an Aguascalientes governor from 1855 to 1857, and one of the first persons to recognize Benito Juárez as Mexico's president.\n\nIts commercial facilities consist of a sole terminal, with four contact positions plus three remotes used by non-mainline carriers. The terminal has been recently remodeled and expanded to meet the growing demand. The airport is now able to handle 1.5 million passengers, although it only handled 0.4 million during 2012. Several amenities have been recently opened, such as the introduction of a new restaurant on the upper level of the airport, new check-in counters, among many others. The airport has become one of the most important terminals in the Central-West region of Mexico.\n\nThe airport is at an elevation of above mean sea level. It has one active runway designated 17/35 with an asphalt surface measuring . A former runway designated 04/22 is now closed; it had an asphalt surface measuring .\n\nIt handled 855,669 passengers in 2018, and 847,975 passengers in 2019. The decrease was caused by the suspension of operations by Interjet.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157358", "title": "Uber Cup", "text": "Uber Cup\n\nThe Uber Cup, sometimes called the World Team Championships for Women, is a major international badminton competition contested by women's national badminton teams. First held in 1956–1957 and contested at three year intervals, it has been contested every two years since 1984 when its scheduled times and venues were merged with those of Thomas Cup, the world men's team championship. In 2007, the Badminton World Federation decided to have Thomas and Uber Cup finals separated again but the proposal was ultimately abandoned. The Uber Cup is named after a former British women's badminton player, Betty Uber, who in 1950 had the idea of hosting a women's event similar to the men's. She also made the draw for the 1956–1957 inaugural tournament, which took place at Lytham St. Annes in Lancashire, England.\n\nThe cup follows a similar format to that of the men's competition of the Thomas Cup. As of the 2018 tournament, China is the most successful team, having won fourteen times. Japan is second, having won it six times, followed by Indonesia and United States, each with three cups.\n\nThe 2018 tournament was held in Bangkok, Thailand.\n\nThe Uber Cup trophy was officially presented at the annual general meeting in 1956, the year the first Uber Cup tournament was first held. It was made by Mappin & Webb, prominent silversmiths on Regent Street in London. The trophy is 20 inches high with a rotating globe on top of a plinth and a female player standing on top of a shuttlecock.\n\nSo far, only five countries have won the Uber Cup with China the most successful team, with 14 titles, followed by Japan (six titles), Indonesia (three titles), the United States (three titles) and Korea (one title). The Uber Cup has only spread to two continents so far: Asia and North America.\n\nNine teams have made it into the finals. The finalists other than the five winner countries above are Denmark, England, the Netherlands and Thailand. Sweden, Germany, Chinese Taipei and India are the other four teams which have made it into the final four.\n\n, 24 teams have qualified in the history of the competition for the final stages of the Uber Cup. Asia is the continent with the most teams, at ten, followed by Europe with eight. The Americas and Oceania have each had two teams that qualified, while South Africa and Mauritius are the only team that has qualified from Africa.\n\nBelow is the list of teams that have appeared in the final stage of Uber Cup as of the 2018 tournament.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157359", "title": "Tobacco BY-2 cells", "text": "Tobacco BY-2 cells\n\nTobacco BY-2 cells is a cell line of plant cells, which was established from a callus induced on a seedling of \"Nicotiana tabacum cv. BY-2\" (cultivar Bright Yellow - 2 of the tobacco plant).\n\nTobacco BY-2 cells are nongreen, fast growing plant cells which can multiply their numbers up to 100-fold within one week in adequate culture medium and good culture conditions. This cultivar of tobacco is kept as a cell culture and more specifically as cell suspension culture (a specialized population of cells growing in liquid medium, they are raised by scientists in order to study a specific biological property of a plant cell). In cell suspension cultures, each of the cells is floating independently or at most only in short chains in a culture medium. Each of the cells has similar properties to the others. The model plant system is comparable to HeLa cells for human research. Because the organism is relatively simple and predictable it makes the study of biological processes easier, and can be an intermediate step towards understanding more complex organisms. They are used by plant physiologists and molecular biologists as a model organism.\n\nThey are used as model systems for higher plants because of their relatively high homogeneity and high growth rate, featuring still general behaviour of plant cell. The diversity of cell types within any part of a naturally grown plant \"(in vivo)\" makes it very difficult to investigate and understand some general biochemical phenomena of living plant cells. The transport of a solute in or out of the cell, for example, is difficult to study because the specialized cells in a multicellular organism behave differently. Cell suspension cultures such as tobacco BY-2 provide good model systems for these studies at the level of a single cell and its compartments because tobacco BY-2 cells behave very similarly to one another. The influence of neighbouring cells behavior is in the suspension is not as important as it would be in an intact plant. As a result any changes observed after a stimulus is applied can be statistically correlated and it could be decided if these changes are reactions to the stimulus or just merely coincidental. In this moment BY-2 cells are relatively well understood and often used in research. This model plant system is especially useful for studies of cell division, cytoskeletons, plant hormone signaling, intracellular trafficking, and organelle differentiation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157363", "title": "K'naan", "text": "K'naan\n\nKeinan Abdi Warsame (, \"Kaynān ʿAbdi Warsama\"), better known by his stage name K'naan (), is a Somali Canadian poet, rapper, singer, songwriter, and instrumentalist. He rose to prominence with the success of his single \"Wavin' Flag\", which was chosen as Coca-Cola's promotional anthem for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Besides hip hop, K'naan's sound is influenced by elements of Somali music and world music. He is also involved in various philanthropic initiatives.\n\nK'naan was born May 30, 1978 in Mogadishu, situated in the southeastern Banaadir province of Somalia to a Habar Gidir Hawiye family. K'naan's family was from an artistic background. His grandfather was a famous poet, and his aunt Magool was a renowned singer. His name, \"Keynaan\" (), means \"traveller\" in the Somali language.\n\nK'naan spent his childhood in Mogadishu. His father, Abdi, had left earlier when he was still a boy to work as a taxi driver in New York City. K'naan's early years were idyllic and enveloped in poetry and song, with his aunt Magool often singing to him. This changed following the start of the civil war, when at the age of 12, three of his friends were shot by an older adolescent gunman. K'naan also narrowly escaped death one day at his school, when he mistook a grenade that he had found in the dirt for a potato and threw it away just before it detonated. These incidents and the general escalation in violence prompted his mother to seek a visa so that the family could join his father in New York. When he was 13, K'naan and his mother and two siblings, older brother Liban and younger sister Sagal, moved to the United States. They stayed in New York for half a year before relocating to Toronto, Ontario, Canada, where K'naan's father had settled. His family still resides there.\n\nIn his new environment, K'naan began learning English, partly by listening to hip hop albums by artists like Nas and Rakim. Despite the fact that he could not yet speak the language, he taught himself hip-hop and rap diction, copying the lyrics and style phonetically. He then also began rapping. While growing up in the Rexdale neighborhood Dixon, K'naan lost many friends to murder, suicide, prison and deportation.\n\nK'naan was married to Deqa, a pharmacy technician, with whom he has two sons, born in 2005 and 2007. The couple divorced before K'naan started touring for the 2010 FIFA World Cup with Coca-Cola.\n\nK'naan became a friend and associate of Canadian promoter Sol Guy, who helped him secure a speaking engagement before the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in 1999, where K'naan performed a spoken word piece criticizing the UN for its failed peacekeeping missions to Somalia. One of the audience members, Senegalese singer Youssou N'Dour, was so impressed by the young MC's performance and courage that he invited him to contribute to his 2001 album \"Building Bridges\", a project through which K'naan was able to tour the world.\n\nThis project led to his work at other UN events, as well as the Montreal Jazz Festival and the Halifax Pop Explosion. It also helped him meet Canadian producer Brian West and Jarvis Church and his Track & Field team in 2002, who produced his debut album \"The Dusty Foot Philosopher\", which was released in 2005 to critical acclaim. In 2006, it won the Juno Award for Rap Recording of the Year, and was nominated for the 2006 Polaris Music Prize. It also won the BBC Radio 3 Award for World Music in the newcomer category for 2007. \"The Dusty Foot Philosopher\" was re-released and repackaged as a \"Deluxe Edition\" featuring new mixes and a bonus DVD in the United States (and various international territories) by the emerging media company and record label iM (Interdependent Media, Inc.) in 2008.\n\nK'naan toured and collaborated with artists like Nelly Furtado, Mos Def, will.i.am, The Roots, Dead Prez, and Pharoahe Monch on tours such as Live 8 and Breedlove Odyssey. He also collaborated with Damian Marley on the \"Welcome to Jamrock\" touring session.\n\nK'naan released \"The Dusty Foot on the Road\", a collection of recordings made during his world tour on Wrasse Records.\n\nK'naan rose to mainstream popularity by participating in the 2008 BET Awards Cypher. This was his first appearance on American television. His second studio album, \"Troubadour\", was released on 24 February 2009 on A&M/Octone Records, and distributed through Universal Music Group worldwide. The album's first single, \"ABC's\", was released in late 2008. K'naan's music has featured in several video games such as Madden NFL 09 (with his song \"ABC's\") and FIFA 06 (with his song \"Soobax\"). The song \"If Rap Gets Jealous\", a re-recording of a track of the same name – with different verses – from \"The Dusty Foot Philosopher\", features Metallica lead guitarist Kirk Hammett. K'naan was also the first featured artist on X3, a collaborative project between CBC Radio 3, \"Exclaim!\" magazine and aux.tv to promote new Canadian music. In July 2010, he performed a cover of U2's \"Stuck in a Moment You Can't Get Out Of\" for iheartradio. On 24 January 2012, K'naan released a 5-song EP under the title \"More Beautiful Than Silence\" including songs such as \"Nothing to Lose\", \"Better\", \"Is Anybody Out There?\". The songs also include collaborations with Nas and Nelly Furtado.\n\nK'naan's 2012 album, \"Country, God or the Girl\", was met with little of the critical acclaim and success that \"Troubadour\" had received. Unlike \"Troubadour\", which was produced almost entirely by production team Track and Field, \"Country, God or the Girl\" featured a wide range of different producers, many of whom work on more mainstream projects. After the release of the album, K'naan published an article in the New York Times explaining and apologizing for the change in his sound. \"My lyrics should change, my label's executives said; radio programmers avoid subjects too far from fun and self-absorption,\" recounts K'naan. \"So I began to say yes. Yes to trying out songs with A-list producers. Yes to moving production from Kingston to Los Angeles.\" In the end, K'naan states \"I had not made my Marley or my Dylan, or even my K'naan; I had made an album in which a few genuine songs are all but drowned out by the loud siren of ambition. Fatima had become Mary, and Mohamed, Adam.\"\n\nIn 2012, K'naan published a children's book, \"When I Get Older: The Story Behind Wavin' Flag\".\n\nHe is featured along with Howard Shore in the \"Cosmopolis (2012)\" soundtrack.\n\nK’Naan has remained committed to his Somali roots and continues to be outspoken in the geopolitics of his home country. He is often regarded as a spokesperson for the Toronto Somali community. In 2007 he was invited by Canadian Broadcast Corporation to reflect on changes Somali courts- including the removal of the Islamic Courts Union. K’Naan renounced this act by Somalia and indicated his support for the Islamic Courts Union- pushing back on the Western nations critiques of Muslim governing systems. Furthermore, he has spoken out against the clan system used in Somalia and particularly its use in immigrant communities in Canada.\n\nK’Naan's engagement with his Somali roots dates back to his first hit “Soobax,” which in his native Somali language means come out. The song critiques the warlords that held power in Somalia's capital, Mogadishu. The song gained popularity in both Somalia and Canada, in addition to the general population in North America. Additionally, K’Naan goes beyond reflecting on his Somali roots in his lyrics as he often raps in both English and Somali rather than one language. His choice to blend both languages has made him a stand out in hip hop, as most rappers often rap in English.\n\nK’Naan's involvement in the rap and hip hop in Northern America has expanded the discussion on both Somali and the Black Diaspora in the West. Both his music and appearances on television and radio shows have grown the conversation on what it means to be Black in Canada. In addition to Black communities that have been residing in the country for over a century there are large Black immigrant communities from the Caribbean and Africa. Rather than speaking for a larger Black diaspora, K’Naan speaks on his own personal experience and thus expanding on experiences of Somali's in Canada.\n\nK’Naan continues to be a voice of the Toronto Somali communities. Additionally, he has expanded the greater discussion of Afrodiasporic communities in Canada and the West.\nK’naan's cover of the Bob Dylan song \"With God on Our Side\" is the closing song on Michael Moore's movie \"Fahrenheit 11/9\".\n\nJim Welte has said K'naan has \"a sound that fuses Bob Marley, conscious American hip-hop, and brilliant protest poetry.\" His voice and style has been compared to Eminem, but his subject matter is very different; according to K'naan, he makes \"urgent music with a message\", talking about the situation in his homeland of Somalia and calling for an end to violence and bloodshed. He specifically tries to avoid gangsta rap clichés and posturing, saying:\n\nThis statement was made to explain his position on the world of difference which exists between where he grew up, and the ghettos of the first world. Nonetheless, K'naan denies that he is overtly political, instead explaining that he \"[shows] the state of the world [and] if you call it like it is you're being political.\" His own opinion of his music is that it's a \"mix of tradition and [a] kind of articulation of my own life and [..] my past experiences.\"\n\nK'naan has said that he is influenced by Somali music and the traditional instruments of Somalia. His 2009 album, \"Troubadour\", also draws heavily from Ethiopian sources, particularly Ethio-Jazz by Alemayehu Eshete and Tilahun Gessesse.\n\nK'naan's single \"Fatima\" is about his childhood friend who got killed in the Somali civil war. \n\nPrior to the release of \"Troubadour\", K'naan performed with a small acoustic band, consisting of Rayzak (back-up vocals), Kierscey Rand (acoustic guitar) and UDOGG-The Funky Drummer (djembe and drums). This style was an essential element of what set K'naan apart from most hip-hop acts. More than that, it reflected K'naan's value of meaningful lyrics over shallow theatrics. One of the last performances of this band was on 16 March 2009 when K'naan rendered four songs from the newly launched album for CBC's program \"Q\" with Jian Ghomeshi, although Rayzak continued to join his subsequent shows and Kierscey Rand made occasional appearances, such as his World Cup Trophy Tour.\n\nSince \"Troubadour\", K'naan has toured almost exclusively with a larger electric ensemble – consisting of drums, bass, electric guitar, and keyboards – and his performances now also feature elaborate lighting. This change in showmanship, along with his collaborations with such high-profile artists as Adam Levine and Mos Def, has helped to shift K'naan more into the mainstream flow of the music industry and has helped him gain exposure to a wider audience.\n\nA remixed version of K'naan's single, \"Wavin' Flag,\" was chosen as Coca-Cola's anthem for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. It was also used in the commercials for the pre-game, which was held in South Africa. Additionally, the track is in the soundtrack for the official EA Sports 2010 FIFA World Cup video game. In December 2009, K'naan performed the song live during the sponsor's FIFA World Cup Trophy Tour, which took him to 86 countries around the world. His performance of \"Wavin' Flag\" was featured in the Top 10 hits in 11 different countries across the world. This also included number one hits in Mexico, Austria, China, Germany, Luxembourg and Switzerland. In order to appeal to different people around the world, K'naan also recorded the song with various local artists such as David Bisbal, Jacky Cheung, Jane Zhang, Nancy Ajram and Tattoo Colour.\n\nOn 21 September 2010, K'naan was scheduled as the headlining act of a student organised concert for World Peace Day which was to benefit girls' education in rural Ghana. At 11pm the singer cancelled, for reasons that have been reported as relating to finances. His manager stated that, \"this is the first time in K'naan's seven-year career that he has pulled out of a performance for such a reason\". K'naan announced on his Twitter following the concert \"amazing how human beings need a bogeyman. It's even better when they can turn their heroes to foes. SFU, check your own back yard for faults.\"\n\nOn 8 May 2011, K'naan performed live at Atlanta's Centennial Olympic Park for Coca-Cola's employees in light of Coke's 125th anniversary.\n\nOn 15 October 2011 at the Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles, K'naan was one of eight performers at the \"Decade of Difference\" concert. The concert celebrated former US President Bill Clinton's 65th birthday and the 10-year anniversary of the Clinton Foundation. K'naan was the third performer of the evening, following sets by Stevie Wonder and Kenny Chesney and preceding sets by Juanes, Usher, Lady Gaga, and The Edge and Bono of U2. K'naan performed three songs – \"Bulletproof Pride,\" \"America,\" and \"Wavin' Flag.\" Toward the end of \"Bulletproof Pride,\" K'naan surprised the audience by bringing Bono onstage for a duet. K'naan also spoke about his childhood in Somalia and how President Clinton's efforts overseas positively impacted his youth.\n\nIn 2005, the Canadian music scene featured a low-key feud between K'naan and k-os, one of the most prominent Canadian hip-hop artists. Following the release of the music video for the song \"Soobax\", which was shot by K'naan and a film crew in Kenya, k-os released a track \"B-Boy Stance\" attacking K'naan: \"They took cameras to Africa for pictures to rhyme / Over; Oh, yes, the great pretenders [...] Religious entertainers who want to be life savers.\" Though the feud never became high-profile, with K'naan expressing confusion at the attack and respect for k-os, he nonetheless responded with the mixtape \"Revolutionary Avocado\" which argued \"You the all-knowing with a beer bottle / Wishing you was Plato and me Aristotle? / ...Suburban negro turned hip-hop hero / Is there a reason he really hates me, though?\" – a rebuttal CBC's Matthew McKinnon called \"cold-cocking the champ\".\n\n\nIn addition to his artistic career, K'naan has been involved with various philanthropic initiatives. In 2011, he became a co-spokesman with Bono to raise awareness of that year's drought in Eastern Africa. Also teaming up with close associate Sol Guy, K'naan performed various concerts for the cause.\n\nAdditionally, K'naan was also active in promoting the Canadian Bill C-393 to help increase medical assistance to countries in Africa. He teamed up with Stephen Lewis, James Orbinski and Richard Elliott, executive director of the Canadian HIV/AIDS Legal Network, but the bill didn't pass the Senate.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157384", "title": "Alone (Why Must I Be Alone)", "text": "Alone (Why Must I Be Alone)\n\n\"Alone (Why Must I Be Alone)\" is a popular song written by Morty Craft. Craft owned a record label, and produced the recording by the Shepherd Sisters on that label. The lyrics were written by Craft's wife, Selma.\n\nWhile it was the only hit for The Shepherd Sisters (as The Sheps) in the United States (reaching No. 18 on the \"Billboard\" chart on November 11, 1957), in the United Kingdom it was one of a number of hits for Petula Clark (reaching No. 8 on the UK Singles Chart) before she became famous internationally. The Shepherd Sisters' version also charted in the UK, reaching No. 14, and another version, by The Southlanders, reached No. 17 in the UK.\n\nA remake of the song by The Four Seasons charted in 1964, reaching its peak \"Billboard\" Hot 100 position at No. 28, on July 18. \"Alone (Why Must I Be Alone)\" also went to No. 8 on the Canadian singles chart. It was the act's last hit single on Vee Jay Records, as The Four Seasons had already left the label at the beginning of 1964 in a royalty dispute.\n\nThe song was also subsequently recorded by Tracey Ullman.\n"}
{"id": "2157386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157386", "title": "Bágyogszovát", "text": "Bágyogszovát\n\nBágyogszovát is a village in Győr-Moson-Sopron county, Hungary, in the north-western region, 35 kilometers from Győr, in the direction of Sopron, near Route 85, the main route of the county.\n\nThe first known written records of Bágyogszovát are from the 13th century. According to those documents, the first part of the village was founded in 1224, and was named \"Zooac\". This name was changed to \"Szovát\" during later centuries. The village was the property of the bishop of Győr for more than five centuries. The other part of the village, \"Bágyog\" was founded later, but the exact date is not known. It was originally called \"Baguc\". The two parts of the village were joined soon after World War II creating Bágyogszovát.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157388", "title": "Thatta", "text": "Thatta\n\nThatta (; ) is a city in the Pakistani province of Sindh. Thatta was the medieval capital of Sindh, and served as the seat of power for three successive dynasties. Thatta's historic significance has yielded several monuments in and around the city. Thatta's Makli Necropolis, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is site of one of the world's largest cemeteries and has numerous monumental tombs built between the 14th and 18th centuries designed in a syncretic funerary style characteristic of lower Sindh. The city's 17th century Shah Jahan Mosque is richly embellished with decorative tiles, and is considered to have the most elaborate display of tile work in the South Asia.\n\nThatta's Sindhi name \"Thatto\" may derive from the Sindhi words 'Tatti', or 'Tatto', which all refer to riverside settlements. Villagers in the rural areas of lower Sindh often refer to the city as \"Thatta Nagar\", or simply \"Nagar\".\n\nThatta may be the site of ancient Patala, the main port on the Indus in the time of Alexander the Great, though the site of Patala has been subject to much debate. Muhammad bin Qasim captured the region in 711 CE after the defeating the local Raja in a battle north of Thatta. Thatta is reported by some historians to have been the ancient seaport of \"Debal\" that was mentioned by the Arab conquerors, though others place the seaport at the site of modern Karachi. At the time of the Umayyad conquests, small semi-nomadic tribes were living in the Sindh region. The Umayyad conquest introduced the religion of Islam into the hitherto mostly Hindu and Buddhist region.\n\nFollowing Mahmud of Ghazna's invasion of Sindh in the early 11th century, the Ghaznavids installed Abdul Razzaq as Governor of Thatta in 1026. Under the rule of the Ghaznavids the local chieftain \"Ibn Sumar\", then ruler of Multan, seized power in Sindh and founded the Sumra dynasty, which ruled from Thatta from 1051 for the next 300 years. Under Sumra rule, Thatta's Ismaili Shia population was granted special protection. The Sumra dynasty began to decline in power by the 13th century, though Thatta and the Indus Delta remained their last bastions of power until the mid 14th century.\n\nIn 1351, the Samma Dynasty, of Rajput descent from Sehwan, seized the city and made it their capital as well. It was during this time that the Makli Necropolis rose to prominence as a funerary site. Muhammad bin Tughluq died in 1351 during a campaign to capture Thatta. Firuz Shah Tughlaq unsuccessfully attempted to subjugate Thatta twice; once in 1361 and again in 1365.\n\nIn 1520, the Samma ruler Jam Feroz was defeated by Shah Beg of the Arghun-Tarkhun dynasty, which in turn had been displaced from Afghanistan by the expanding Timurid Empire in Central Asia. The Tarkhuns fell into disarray in the mid 1500s, prompting Muhammad Isa Tarkhun (Mirza Isa Khan I) to seek aid from the Portuguese in 1555. 700 Portuguese soldiers arrived in 28 ships to determine, at the time of their arrival, that Isa Tarkhun had already emerged victorious from the conflict. After the Tarkhuns refused to pay the Portuguese soldiers, the Portuguese plundered the town, robbing its enormous gold treasury, and killing many inhabitants. Despite the 1555 sack of Thatta, the 16th century Portuguese historian Diogo do Couto described Thatta as one of the richest cities of the Orient.\n\nThe city was destroyed by Mirza Jani Beg in the 16th century. Beginning in 1592 during the reign of Emperor Jehangir, Thatta was governed by the Mughal Empire based in Delhi, which lead to a decline in the city's prosperity as some trade was shifted towards other Mughal ports.\n\nShah Jahan, while still a prince, sought refuge in the city from his father Emperor Jahangir. In 1626, Shah Jahan's 13th son, Lutfallah, was born in Thatta. The city was almost destroyed by a devastating storm in 1637. As a token of gratitude for the hospitality he had received in the city while still a prince, Shah Jahan bestowed the Shah Jahan Mosque to the city in 1647as part of the city's rebuilding efforts, although it was not completed until 1659 under the reign of his son Aurangzeb. Emperor Aurangzeb himself had also lived in Thatta for some time as governor of the lower Sindh.\n\nThatta regained some of its prosperity with the arrival of European merchants. Between 1652 and 1660, the Dutch East India Company had a small tradingpost (\"comptoir\" or factory) in Thatta. This competed with the English one, which was established in 1635 and closed in 1662. Thatta in the 1650s was noted to have 2,000 looms that produced cloth that was exported abroad to Asia and Portugal. Thatta was also home to a thriving silk weaving industry, as well as leather products that were exported throughout South Asia. The city was considered by visiting Augustinian friars in the 1650s to be a wealthy city, though the presence of transgender \"hijras\" were taken as a sign of the city's supposed moral depravity.\n\nThatta'a revival was short lived as the Indus River silted in the second half of the 1600s, shifting its course further east and leading to the abandonment of the city as a seaport. Despite the abandonment of the city's port functions, its Hindu merchants continued to play an important role in trade, and began using their own ships rather than relying on European ships for trade. Traders were particularly active in the region around Masqat, in modern Oman, and members of Thatta's \"Bhatia\" caste established Masqat's first Hindu temple during this period. Sindh remained an important economic centre during this period as well, and Thatta remained Sindh's largest economic centre, and its largest centre for textile production.\n\nThe Mir Bejar dynasty began to gain influence as a dynasty of feudal lords in lower Sindh, they were of Sisodia clan of Mewar, where they ruled since the middle 17th century. They were merchant rulers who flourished Sindh during mughal period eventually brought Thatta under their control in 1638 – after which they became hereditary rulers of Thatta; before eventually moving to nearby Cutch State in 1750.\n\nThe Kalhora dynasty began to gain influence as a dynasty of feudal lords in upper Sindh, where they ruled since the middle 16th century. They eventually brought Thatta under their control in 1736 – after which they moved their capital to Thatta before eventually moving it to Hyderabad in 1789. Thatta continued to decline in the mid 18th century in importance as a trading centre throughout the 18th century, as much of the city's trading classes shifted to Shikarpur in northern Sindh, or to Gujarat.\n\nIn 1739, however, following the Battle of Karnal, the Mughal province of Sindh was fully ceded to Nadir Shah of the Persian Empire, after which Thatta fell into neglect, as the Indus river also began to silt. The city then came under the rule of the Talpur dynasty, who seized Thatta from the Kalhoras. A second British \"comptoir\" was established during the Kalhora period in 1758, which operated until 1775. In the early 19th century Thatta had declined to a population of about 20,000, from a high of 200,000 a century before.\n\nTalpur rule ended in 1843 on the battlefield of Miani when General Charles James Napier captured the Sindh for the British Empire, and moved the capital of the Sindh from Hyderabad to Karachi. In 1847, Thatta was administered as part of the Bombay Presidency. In 1920, the estimated population of the city was 10,800.\n\nAfter the independence of Pakistan most of the city's Hindu population, though like much of Sindh, migrated to India, Thatta did not experience the widespread rioting that occurred in Punjab and Bengal. In all, less than 500 Hindu were killed in \nall of Sindh between 1947-48 as Sindhi Muslims largely resisted calls to turn against their Hindu neighbours. Hindus did not flee Thatta \"en masse\" until riots erupted in Karachi on 6 January 1948, which sowed fear in Sindh's Hindus.\n\nIn the 1970s under the rule of Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, Thatta's monuments were restored and some industry was relocated to Thatta.\n\nThe city serves as capital of Thatta District. On 23 April 2014, the government announced the formation of Sindh's sixth division, Banbhore Division, with Thatta as capital. These sources reveal that this formation is made to improve governance in Thatta.\n\nThatta's geology is characterized by volcanic and sedimentary rocks that are similar to those in the Indus plain, and Thar Desert. Soil types in the region are silty, with some clay as well. Much of the soil is exposed to salinization from the Arabian Sea.\n\nVegetation in Thatta is characterized by mangrove forests in the coastal region, with tropical-thorny shrubs elsewhere.\n\nThatta is believed to be birthplace of Ishta dev of Sindhi Hindus \"Jhulelal\".\n\n\nThatta has a hot desert climate (Köppen climate classification \"BWh\").\n\nClimate of Thatta:\n\nThe average annual rainfall is 210mm, The average annual temperature in Thatta is 26.8 °C.\n\nMonthly rainfall:\n\nJanuary: 5mm, February: 8mm, March 5mm, April: 3mm, May: 5mm, June: 17mm, July: 98mm, August: 50mm, September: 15mm, October: 1mm, November: 2mm, December 3mm.\n\nLast 10 years Monsoon Rains\n\n2009: 300+mm\n2010: 300+mm\n2011: 245mm\n2012: 206mm\n2013: 116mm\n2014: 27mm\n2015: 155.6mm\n2016: 132mm\n2017: 227mm\n2018: 15mm\n\n"}
{"id": "2157392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157392", "title": "Peter Wentworth", "text": "Peter Wentworth\n\nSir Peter Wentworth (1529–1596) was a prominent Puritan leader in the Parliament of England. He was the elder brother of Paul Wentworth and entered as member for Barnstaple in 1571. He later sat for the Cornish borough of Tregony in 1578 and for the town of Northampton in the parliaments of 1586–7, 1589, and 1593. Wentworth was the chief critic of Queen Elizabeth I, and Wentworth's 1576 Parliament address has been regarded as the sign of a new era in English Parliament politicking. Recorded speeches and parliament sessions, jotted in the diaries of MPs like those of Thomas Cromwell, began to proliferate around this time, when public interest embraced political affairs and when issues such as freedom of speech took root in parliamentary politics. For these reasons, Wentworth is often regarded as the first celebrated English parliamentarian.\n\nHe was the son of Sir Nicholas Wentworth of Lillingstone Lovell, chief porter of Calais, and was trained for the law in Lincoln's Inn.\n\nHe inherited the estate at Lillingstone Lovell on the death of his father in 1557.\n\nHe entered Parliament as the MP for Barnstaple in 1571 and Tregony in 1572.\n\nWentworth firmly supported the liberties of Parliament against encroachments of the royal prerogative, about which he delivered a memorable speech on 8 February 1576. The speech was interrupted before its conclusion due to Wentworth's provocative claims, and officials imprisoned him in the Tower of London. Below are the words that concluded the spoken part of Wentworth's speech. \nAmongst other, Mr. Speaker, two things do great hurt in this place, of the which I do mean to speak: the one is a rumour which runneth about the house and this it is, \"Take heed what you do, the queen's majesty liketh not such a matter. Whosoever prefereth it, she will be offended with him\". Or the contrary, \"Her majesty liketh of such a matter. Whosoever speaketh against it, she will be much offended with him\". The other: sometimes a message is brought into the house, either of commanding or inhibiting, very injurious to the freedom of speech and consultation. I would to God, Mr. Speaker, that these two were buried in hell, I mean rumours and messages, for wicked they undoubtedly are. The reason is, the devil was the first author of them, from whom proceedeth nothing but wickedness...\n\nIt was here that Wentworth was interrupted, and the house decided \"that he should be presently committed to the serjeant's ward as prisoner, and so remaining should be examined upon his said speech for the extenuating of his fault therein\". The unspoken remainder of Wentworth's speech was preserved from the draft, and its rhetoric and content continue on much in the same manner until its ending. Eventually, Wentworth was released from the Tower after his incarceration there, and he was readmitted to Parliament. In 1586, 1589 and 1593 he was elected to represent Northampton.\n\nIn February 1587, Sir Anthony Cope (1548–1614) presented to the Speaker a bill abrogating the existing ecclesiastical law, together with a Puritan revision of the Book of Common Prayer, and Wentworth supported him by bringing forward certain articles touching the liberties of the House of Commons; Cope and Wentworth were both committed to the Tower for interference with Elizabeth I's ecclesiastical prerogative.\n\nIn 1593, Wentworth again suffered imprisonment for presenting a petition on the subject of the royal succession; and he did not regain his freedom, for he died in the Tower on 10 November 1596. While in the Tower he wrote \"A Pithie Exhortation to her Majesty for establishing her Successor to the Crown\", a notable treatise preserved in the British Library.\n\nPeter Wentworth was then twice married; his first wife, Laetitia Lune, with whom he had no children, was the daughter of Sir Ralph Lune and Maud Parr, who was a cousin of Catherine Parr, and his second was Elizabeth Walsingham, a sister of Sir Francis Walsingham, Elizabeth's secretary of state.\nHe and Elizabeth had children, including a daughter, Frances Wentworth.\n\nHis third son, Thomas Wentworth (Recorder of Oxford) (c. 1568-1628), was an ardent and sometime violent opponent of royal prerogative in Parliament, of which he became a member in 1604: He represented the city of Oxford from that year until his death and became recorder of Oxford in 1607. Another son, Walter Wentworth, was also a Member of Parliament, representing Tavistock in 1601.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157416", "title": "Wong Tai Sin, Hong Kong", "text": "Wong Tai Sin, Hong Kong\n\nWong Tai Sin is an area in Wong Tai Sin District, New Kowloon, Hong Kong. The area was named after the Wong Tai Sin Temple.\n\nThe area was previously known as Chuk Yuen or Chuk Un, prior to the intake of two Wong Tai Sin Estates. The populace of the estates, the prosperity of Wong Tai Sin Temple and the completion of Wong Tai Sin MTR Station gradually eclipses its former name.\n\nWong Tai Sin is surrounded by northeast Tsz Wan Shan, east Diamond Hill, south San Po Kong, south west Tung Tau and west Wang Tau Hom. Lion Rock is located north west of Wong Tai Sin.\n\nFor history before the completion Wong Tai Sin Estates in 1960s, see Chuk Yuen.\n\nPublic housing estates in the area include Upper Wong Tai Sin Estate, Lower Wong Tai Sin Estate, Chuk Yuen North Estate and Chuk Yuen South Estate. Fung Wong San Tsuen is also considered part of Wong Tai Sin.\n\nTwo shopping centres, Temple Mall North (previously: Lung Cheung Mall) and Temple Mall South (previously: Wong Tai Sin Shopping Centre).\n\nThe area of Wong Tai Sin is centre at the main road Lung Cheung Road which connects Kwun Tong Road at Ngau Chi Wan and Ching Cheung Road near Tai Wo Ping. The Wong Tai Sin Station of MTR runs beneath the road.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157422", "title": "Andy Hug", "text": "Andy Hug\n\nAndreas \"Andy\" Hug (September 7, 1964 – August 24, 2000) was a Swiss karateka and kickboxer who competed in the heavyweight division. Considered to be one of the greatest heavyweight kickboxers of all time, along with Mirko Cro Cop, Peter Aerts, Remy Bonjasky, Ernesto Hoost and Semmy Schilt, Hug was renowned for his ability to execute numerous kicking techniques rarely seen in high level competition and although he was usually smaller than his opponents, standing at and being barely a heavyweight, weighing around in his prime, he made up for his lack of size with his tremendous athleticism and speed. A southpaw, his trademark kicks included the axe kick and the \"Hug Tornado\", a low spinning heel kick targeting his opponents' thighs.\n\nRaised in Wohlen, Aargau, Hug was a keen footballer in his youth but gave up the sport to pursue Kyokushin karate which he began practicing at ten years old. Beginning his full contact karate career in the 80 kg/176 lb middleweight division, he rose to prominence in the late 1970s and early 1980s by winning numerous regional tournaments around Europe and made the transition to heavyweight in 1984. That same year, he competed in the Kyokushin World Open, knockdown karate's most prestigious competition, for the first time and made it to the fourth round where he was eliminated by Shokei Matsui. Returning to Europe, he won his first major title in the form of the 3rd European Championships in 1985 before entering World Open again in 1987. He became the first non-Japanese fighter to make it to the final of the competition but again lost to Shokei Matsui. Another European Championships win would follow in 1989 and he fought in his third and final World Open in 1991, losing a controversial bout to Francisco Filho in the third round.\n\nHaving become a popular fighter in Japan due to his technical diversity, spectacular aesthetics, tactics and strength, Andy Hug made the switch from Kyokushinkaikan to Seidokaikan in 1992, completing the step from being an amateur to becoming a professional fighter and star in Japan. After winning the 1992 Seidokaikan Karate World Cup, beating Taiei Kin in the final, and finishing as runner-up to Masaaki Satake in the 1993 edition, Hug then transitioned to K-1 kickboxing, scoring a first round knockout of Ryuji Murakami in his professional debut at \"K-1 Andy's Glove\" in November 1993. After a breakout win over K-1 Grand Prix '93 Champion Branko Cikatić in March 1994, Hug entered the K-1 Grand Prix '94 a month later as one of the tournament favourites but was upset by Patrick Smith via first round stoppage in the quarter-finals. Undeterred, Hug continued to improve his skills for the kickboxing ring and rebounded by winning the Universal Kickboxing Federation (UKF) World Super Heavyweight Championship in December 1994 when he knocked out Rob van Esdonk. He suffered another setback at the K-1 Grand Prix '95 Qualifying Round when he was stopped by Mike Bernardo but he would have his revenge the following year at the K-1 Grand Prix '96 when he won the tournament by finishing Bernardo with the \"Hug Tornado\" in the final. He continued to be one of K-1's top contenders in the following years, reaching the final of the K-1 World Grand Prix twice more (in 1997 and 1998) and becoming a three-time world champion by taking the WMTC and WKA titles under Muay Thai rules.\n\nIn early August 2000, Hug started feeling unwell in Switzerland. On August 17, while training in Japan, he was given a diagnosis of acute leukemia. He died, aged 35, a week later in Tokyo, the day after it was made public that he was in a coma. \n\nHug's sudden death shocked the mixed martial arts world. His legacy remains as a true legend in kickboxing and knockdown karate, as well as one of the greatest heavyweights in the history of both sports. Hug was the highest paid kickboxer in the world at one point and his matches in his native Switzerland, where he posted a perfect 6–0 record, drew a larger television audience than the tennis matches of Martina Hingis and the games of the Swiss national football team. In addition to his in-ring accomplishments, he was also known for his articulation, humility and strong work ethic.\n\nAndreas Hug was born in Zurich, Switzerland on September 7, 1964. His father, Arthur, was a Swiss of French and Swiss descent and was a French Foreign Legionnaire. He died in Thailand under mysterious circumstances without ever seeing his son. Hug's mother, Madelaine Hug-Baumann, was German. She was forced to pursue gainful employment. Unable to care for Andy, she immediately put him up for adoption and he spent the first three years of his life in an orphanage until his care was taken over by his grandparents along with his brother, Charly, and sister, Fabienne. His grandmother, Fridy, and grandfather, Herrmann Baumann, a bricklayer, raised them in Wohlen in the Canton of Aargau.\n\nHug began playing association football competitively at the age of six and went on to represent the Switzerland national under-16 football team. However, his home situation also made him a target for bullying and at ten years old, he started practising Kyokushinkai karate at Wohlen karate school under Werner Schenker despite strong opposition from his grandfather initially. His grandmother saw the boy's passion for the art and eventually convinced the grandfather to relent. By thirteen, he began to show promise as a karateka by winning numerous beginners' karate tournaments and his grandparents eventually forced him to decide between pursuing football and karate, since they were no longer in a position to pay for both. He chose karate and at fifteen won the 1979 Swiss Oyama Cup, a national Kyokushin competition. Although full contact karate tournaments carried with them a minimum age of twenty, he showed so much potential as one of the country's biggest prospects that the Swiss Karate Federation allowed the teenaged prodigy to compete nonetheless.\n\nFollowing his breakout performance in the Oyama Cup, Hug earned himself a place on the Swiss national Kyokushin team and then became the co-founder of a dojo in Bremgarten aged seventeen. He completed his butchery apprenticeship in 1984 and took a job in Wohlen's main wholesale butchery. However, his need for time off work regularly to compete in tournaments and occasional injuries which hindered his work performance meant that a shadow was cast over his working relationship and he was released from his contract by mutual agreement in 1986.\n\nAfter winning a number of beginners' karate competitions, Andy Hug was selected to represent the Wohlen Karate School during the National Team Championships in November 1977. His breakthrough performance came at the Swiss national Oyama Cup in 1979 at the age of fifteen when he defeated several opponents much older than himself to take the tournament crown. In 1981, Hug had an upsurge in competition as he was part of the Swiss team that defeated the Dutch in the finals to win the 4 Countries Team Tournament and recorded his first international success by taking a bronze medal at the 5th Dutch Kyokushin Championships in the 80 kg/176 lb middleweight division in Weert, Netherlands as he lost out to Koen Scharrenberg in the semi-finals. He also won the Swiss Oyama Cup for a second time that year, beating Heinz Muntweiler in the final, before further establishing himself as the country's top Kyokushin fighter by winning the 1982 Swiss Championships at middleweight. After reaching the round of sixteen in both the 2nd European Championships and the 6th Dutch Open, being eliminated by Jean-Pierre Louisset and Kenneth Felter respectively, Hug closed out the year by being crowned champion at the 1st Ibusz Oyama Cup in Budapest, Hungary where he defeated Mark Niedziokka in the final.\n\nHug again made it to the last sixteen at the 7th Dutch Open in 1983 and in 1984, he moved up to the heavyweight class with instant success, winning the Swiss nationals. In January 1984, he competed in the 3rd edition of the Kyokushin World Open, knockdown karate's most prestigious competition held once every four years. Andy was able to battle his way through and reached the final sixteen but lost to Shokei Matsui on points. 1985 was another successful year for Hug as he won the Ibusz Oyama Cup for the second time and the Swiss nationals for the third time before taking his most notable prize to date when he outpointed Klaus Rex in the final to win the 3rd edition of the European Championships in Barcelona, Spain in December of that year.\n\nAt the 11th British Open in London, England in 1986, he was eliminated at the semi-final round by Michael Thompson. They would then rematch at the same stage of the 4th European Kyokushin Championships in Katowice, Poland in May 1987 with the Englishman again coming out on top and forcing Hug to relinquish his title as European champion. Andy Hug returned to the World Open in November 1987 and made history by becoming the first \"gaijin\" to reach the final of the tournament, booking his place with a judges' decision win over Akira Masuda in the semis. There, he again faced Shokei Matsui and lost to his Japanese foe by decision once again.\n\nWith his status as an elite Kyokushin fighter secured, Hug began to compete more sparingly over the next few years. He won the 1st Sursee Cup in 1988, defeating Kenji Midori in the final, and became a two-time European champion in 1989 when he beat Michael Thompson to win the 5th European Championships in Budapest.\n\nAfter an uneventful year in 1990, Andy Hug returned to the spotlight in '91 when he reached the final of the 6th European Championships in Budapest only to lose to Michael Thompson once more. The 5th World Championships also took place that year at the Budokan in Tokyo, Japan. In his third fight, Andy came up against Francisco Filho. At the end of the round, as the bell rang, Filho landed a \"mawashi geri\" on the side of Hug's head which left him unconscious on the floor. Despite protest from the Swiss camp, it was later confirmed that Filho's kick had indeed struck after the bell rang, but he had started his move before the time was up and Filho was declared the winner.\n\nHaving been fighting in Japan with success for a number of years, Hug became extremely popular in the country. The fans were impressed by his technical diversity, spectacular aesthetics, tactics and strength. In 1992, he made the switch from Kyokushinkaikan to Seidokaikan, completing the step from being an amateur to becoming a professional fighter and star in Japan. He debuted as a Seidokaikan karate fighter on July 30, 1992, defeating Toshiyuki Yanagisawa on points at the \"Seidokaikan Kakutogi Olympics II\". He then competed in and won the 1992 Seidokaikan Karate World Cup on October 2, 1992, overcoming Taiei Kin in the final. On April 30, 1993, Hug fought in K-1 for the first time, albeit under Seidokaikan rules, in a rematch with Nobuaki Kakuda at the \"K-1 Grand Prix '93\". The pair previously met at the second round of the 1992 Seidokaikan Karate World Cup with Hug winning by \"ippon\" and the Swiss repeated his performance by stopping Kakuda with a knee strike from the Thai clinch in round two.\n\nFacing another of his previous opponents from the 1992 Seidokaikan Karate World Cup, he beat Minoru Fujita by decision at \"K-1 Sanctuary III\" on June 25, 1993. Undefeated as a Seidokaikan fighter, Hug entered the K-1 Illusion 1993 Karate World Cup on October 2, 1993, defeating Yoshinori Arata, Changpuek Kiatsongrit and Toshiyuki Atokawa on his way to the final where he met Masaaki Satake. After four overtime rounds, the bout went to sudden death where Hug lost in a \"tameshiwari\" contest.\n\nFollowing the tournament, Hug began his transition from full contact karate to kickboxing and, already a part of K-1's roster, made his debut against Ryuji Murakami at \"K-1 Andy's Glove\" on November 15, 1993. He won by first round knockout, dropping Murakami with a body kick early before finishing him off with a right hook soon after. In a non-tournament attraction at the \"K-2 Grand Prix '93\" on December 19, 1993, Hug faced Eric Albert and hurt the Frenchman seconds after the opening bell when he rushed out and landed his trademark axe kick on his face. After a prolonged beating and a spinning back kick knockdown, Hug was able to put Albert away with a series of punches late in round two. In just his third outing in the kickboxing ring, he took a considerable step up in class as he faced off with the reigning K-1 World Grand Prix champion Branko Cikatić at \"K-1 Challenge\" on March 3, 1994. Struggling early due to his lack of boxing prowess, Hug received a standing eight count from referee Genshu Igari in round one after being rocked by an uppercut from Cikatić. Hug, however, came into his own as the fight went on, utilizing his kicking game to better effect and boxing from the inside, even forcing a count of his own on the Croatian before winning a unanimous decision after five rounds.\n\nWith the win over Branko Cikatić, Andy Hug proved himself to be competent kickboxer and was entered into his first K-1 World Grand Prix, fighting at the \"K-1 Grand Prix '94\" on April 30, 1994, where he faced Patrick Smith in the quarter-finals. Hug lost the match. He struggled with Smith's aggression and punch-heavy style, suffering three knockdowns in nineteen seconds and losing by technical knockout. Hug had problems with his gumshield as his molars didn't clamp down on it properly and he was instead pinching it with his incisors. In time, however, the K-1 doctors discovered the dental problems and fitted him with a mouthpiece that would provide standard protection. The rematch between Andy Hug and Pat Smith took place at \"K-1 Revenge\" on September 18, 1994, and the American again opened with an axe kick just as he done in the first fight. This time, however, Hug countered with the \"Hug Tornado\", sweeping Smith to the canvas. As the fight went on, Hug weathered Smith's aggressive start and completed his revenge when he knocked him unconscious with a knee at the 0:56 mark of round one. In a kickboxing match at the 1994 Seidokaikan Karate World Cup on October 2, 1994, he scored a third round liver kick knockout of Duke Roufus before closing out the year by winning the UKF World Super Heavyweight Championship with a spectacular fourth-round KO win against Rob van Esdonk at \"K-1 Legend\" on December 10, 1994.\n\nOn March 3, 1995, Hug entered the 1995 Grand Prix at the round of sixteen qualifier where his rivalry with Mike Bernardo began. Both fighters traded heavy shots with Bernardo seemingly getting the better until Hug dropped him with a high kick towards the end of the first round. The South African boxer continued to pile on the pressure, however, and in the third, knocked Hug down with a left hook shortly followed by a standing eight count. Finally, he forced Hug into a corner and delivered a relentless beating on the Swiss karateka until referee Nobuaki Kakuda finally stopped the bout after a prolonged barrage of unanswered punches. Hug had a quick turnaround, as he was back in the ring on May 4, 1995, scoring a forty-five second knockout over Peter Kramer in a \"K-1 World Grand Prix 1995\" non-tournament affair. On June 10, 1995, Hug made the first defence of his UKF title against Dennis Lane at \"K-1 Fight Night\" in Zurich, the first K-1 event held in Switzerland. In a rather one-sided fight, Andy Hug knocked Lane down twice in the first two rounds before the American quit on his stool.\n\nHug would then lose in his next two outings, firstly to Ernesto Hoost by majority decision at the \"K-3 Grand Prix '95\" on July 16, 1995, and then Mike Bernardo by KO in a rematch at \"K-1 Revenge II\" on September 3, 1995. The fight was even going into the latter stages of round two when Bernardo landed a right hook which sent Hug to the canvas. He was able to make it back to his feet but was clearly on wobbly legs and the referee in charge, Genshu Igari, stopped him from taking any more damage than was necessary.\n\nSitting on a less-than-spectacular 8–4 record and having lost in his previous two matches, Hug was struggling with depression and felt at odds with the sport, questioning whether or not he had it in him to continue at the elite level. He persisted, however, after a rejuvenating unanimous decision win over Jérôme Le Banner at \"K-1 Hercules\" on December 9, 1995, and went into the 1996 campaign in good form.\n\nKicking off the most successful year of his career, Andy Hug demolished an overmatched Bart Vale at the \"K-1 Grand Prix '96 Opening Battle\" on March 3, 1996, to qualify for the \"K-1 Grand Prix '96\" which was held two months later on May 6. After making short work of Duane van der Merwe with a KO inside forty seconds at the tournament's quarter-final stage, awaiting Hug was Ernesto Hoost in the semis and the pair had an epic battle considered to be one of the greatest matches in K-1's history. A back-and-forth fight in which Hoost delivered punishing low kicks throughout and both fighters traded heavily in the clinch, the judges ruled it a split draw after the regulation three rounds and so it went to an extension round to decide the winner only for it again to be scored a majority draw. Finally, after five grueling rounds, Hug was ruled the victor by split decision. In the final, he went up against Mike Bernardo, the South African power puncher who had knocked him out twice previously. It was not to be three-in-a-row for Bernardo, however, as a combination of fatigue and Hug's low kicks began to wear him down in the second round. Bernardo went down from a roundhouse kick to his left thigh but got back to his feet only for Hug to deliver one of the most spectacular stoppages of the 1990s, landing the \"Hug Tornado\" on Bernardo's already-injured left leg to put him away and clinch the coveted K-1 World Grand Prix Championship.\n\nHug returned to Zurich to face Muay Thai stylist Sadau Kiatsongrit in his second and last defence of the UKF super heavyweight title at \"K-1 Fight Night II\" on June 2, 1996, dispatching the Thai with a right hook at the end of round two after flooring him moments earlier. At September 1's \"K-1 Revenge '96\", Hug fought the first of his own six Muay Thai matches, challenging Stan Longinidis for his WMTC World Super Heavyweight (+95 kg/209 lb) Championship. They exchanged heavy strikes in a close first round but Hug then went out and severely outgunned Longinidis in the second, knocking his Australian opponent down with a high kick before viciously finishing the job with a left cross after he beat the count.\n\nAt \"K-1 Star Wars '96\" on October 18, 1996, Andy Hug beat Masaaki Satake by unanimous decision in a rather lackluster rematch of the 1993 Seidokaikan Karate World Cup final to win his third title in the span on five months, the WKA World Super Heavyweight (+95 kg/209 lb) Muay Thai strap. He finished out the year a perfect 8–0 with another unanimous decision win, this time over fellow karateka Musashi at \"K-1 Hercules '96\" on December 8, 1996.\n\nAndy Hug's eight fight win streak was brought to an end by then-two-time K-1 Grand Prix champion Peter Aerts in the first of their four meetings at \"K-1 Kings '97\" on March 16, 1997. Soundly beaten inside the opening stanza, he was hurt by Aerts' right hand a number of times before being put away with a combination of an uppercut and a knee. He then fought to a five-round split draw with Sam Greco at \"K-1 Braves '97\" on April 29, 1997, before having his fourth and final battle with Mike Bernardo in his first WKA world super heavyweight title defence on June 7, 1997, at \"K-1 Fight Night '97\" in Zurich. Bernardo registered a knockdown of Hug with a powerful left hook at the end of round two but it was not enough as Hug took the unanimous decision in the only fight of their 2–2 series to go the distance.\n\nOn July 20, 1997, at \"K-1 Dream '97\", Andy Hug met Francisco Filho in a rematch almost six years in the making; Filho had KO'd Hug at the third round of the 5th Kyokushin World Open back in 1991. The fight started tense and cagey, with little to no action for the majority of round one until Filho, making his debut under kickboxing rules, landed the decisive strike, a perfectly timed counter right hook, which sent Hug crashing to the canvas in a state of unconsciousness at the 2:37 mark.\n\nWith a record of 1-2-1 that year, he entered the Grand Prix in relatively poor form but qualified for the final eight nonetheless with a win over Pierre Guénette at \"K-1 Grand Prix '97 1st Round\" on September 7, 1997, putting away the Canadian taekwondo exponent with three knockdowns inside the first round. The round of eight went down on November 9 and saw the rubber match between Andy Hug and Masaaki Satake in the quarter-finals go just fifteen seconds as the Swiss dispatched his Japanese foe with a high kick. In the semis, Hug drew Peter Aerts and avenged his loss to the Dutchman eight months prior with a unanimous judges' decision victory. Having fought his way through to the final, he then lost to Ernesto Hoost by unanimous decision in the third of their four matches.\n\nHe rebounded with a unanimous decision victory over Curtis Schuster on April 9, 1998, at \"K-1 Kings '98\" and then had his third meeting with Peter Aerts in Zurich on June 6, 1998, at \"K-1 Fight Night '98\". With his WKA World Super Heavyweight Muay Thai Championship on the line, Hug outfought Aerts over the five rounds to take a unanimous decision and make the second defence of his belt. On August 7, 1998, at the \"K-1 USA Grand Prix '98\", K-1's first venture into the United States and Las Vegas, he dismantled Mike LaBree inside the first round, forcing him into a corner before stopping him with a flurry of punches immediately followed by a thudding low kick.\n\nThe 1998 Grand Prix began on September 27 with the round of sixteen at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix '98 Opening Round\" where Hug faced off with Mark Russell, one of the few opponents in his career who he had a size advantage over. He scored a knockdown over England's Russell in the latter part of round one and finished the job in two with a second consecutive leg kick stoppage. In a tune-up fight ahead of the Grand Prix finals, Hug KO'd Masaaki Miyamoto with a spinning backfist moments after dropping him with the same technique at \"K-1 Japan '98 Kamikaze\" on October 28, 1998.\n\nAt the \"K-1 Grand Prix '98 Final Round\" on December 13, 1998, he TKO'd Ray Sefo in the second round of their quarter-final match, knocking the New Zealander down twice with aggressive boxing combinations and forcing referee Nobuaki Kakuda to stop the fight, before securing a majority decision against Sam Greco in the semis, a rematch of their draw a year earlier. There was also some controversy in the fight as both men continued to fight after the bell rung at the end of round two, with Greco knocking Hug to the canvas with a right hand. The tournament final saw Andy Hug draw Peter Aerts once again and in their fourth and final match against one another, Aerts emerged victorious via head kick knockout in the first round.\n\n1999 was the most successful year for K-1 since its inception. Record numbers of spectators were recorded for all tournaments. Around this time, Hug also turned his hand to training other competitors at his facility in Lucerne, Switzerland, bringing through the next generation of Swiss heavyweights in Xhavit Bajrami, Björn Bregy and Petar Majstorović as well as foreign talent such as Michael McDonald.\n\nHe began 1999 in devastating fashion, knocking out Tsuyoshi Nakasako with a second round spinning heel kick at \"K-1 Rising Sun '99\" on February 3 and scoring a second TKO over Ray Sefo in their rematch at \"K-1 Revenge '99\" on April 25 when the New Zealander's corner pulled their fighter out at the end of round four due to damage sustained. During that fourth round, Sefo was down for over four minutes and was seen by ringside physicians after sustaining a low blow before suffering two knockdowns, one from a low kick and the other a barrage of unanswered strikes. Hug then registered back-to-back unanimous decision victories over Stefan Leko, in his third defence of the WKA strap at \"K-1 Fight Night '99\" on June 5, and Maurice Smith, at \"K-1 Spirits '99\" on August 22. Continuing his winning streak into the 1999 K-1 World Grand Prix, he floored Hiromi Amada twice with low kicks then finished him with a spinning heel kick in round one at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix '99 Opening Round\" on October 5. In the quarter-finals of the \"K-1 Grand Prix '99 Final Round\", which was held on December 5, Hug met Ernesto Hoost for the fourth and last time. As early as the first round, Hug exacerbated a pre-existing groin injury. This handicap was so severe that it forced him to abandon a large part of his arsenal in his kicking game, and he dropped a unanimous decision.\n\nHug went 4–0 in 2000, the year of his death. He took a majority decision in his rematch with Musashi at \"K-1 Burning 2000\" on March 19 and a unanimous decision against Glaube Feitosa after a back-and-forth war at \"K-1 The Millennium\" on April 23. In his Swiss retirement fight (his last fight in Switzerland) as well as his fourth and last WKA title defence, Hug defeated Mirko Cro Cop at \"K-1 Fight Night 2000\" on June 3. Cro Cop put him under pressure with his boxing at numerous times, but Hug stayed active with his kicks and did enough to take the unanimous decision.\n\nIn what would prove to be his final match, Andy Hug scored a quick knockout over Nobu Hayashi at \"K-1 Spirits 2000\" on July 7, 2000, sending his Japanese opponent to the canvas twice inside the first round. He was planning a retirement match and a move into acting in the near future at the time of his death.\n\nAndy met his wife Ilona Hug (born July 4, 1964) in summer 1987 while she was working as a fitness trainer and model and the couple married in Inwil on August 28, 1993. Their son, Seya, was born at Lucerne's Klinik Saint Anna on November 19, 1994. Around 1996, it became a struggle for Andy to see his family regularly due to his commitments in Japan and he encouraged Ilona to fulfill her desire to study art and design. Ilona and Seya moved to the United States where she attended the Santa Monica College of Design, Art and Architecture for two years before returning to Switzerland upon completion of her studies.\n\nAndy Hug was in Switzerland in early August 2000 when he suffered more than thirty-nine attacks of high fever and heavy nosebleeding. He visited a hospital for medical tests and examination but doctors found no sign of illness. Despite the advice of the doctors and his manager Rene Ernst, Hug travelled to Japan on August 14 to train ahead of his planned participation in the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2000 in Fukuoka\". On August 15, his Swiss personal physician found a swollen tumor on the left side of Hug's neck and declared it malignant. He was rushed to the Nippon Medical School hospital in Bunkyo, Tokyo on August 19 after suffering more feverish attacks. The doctors diagnosed leukemia and began chemotherapy immediately. They also warned Hug that due to heart and circulation problems he had suffered for a while, the chemotherapy treatment might in fact adversely affect his condition. The doctors’ warnings proved true when, after starting chemotherapy, Hug suffered hemorrhaging of the brain and inflammation of the lungs (pneumonia) combined with extreme fever. His body showed all the signs of acute leukemia: purple spots, digestion pipe bleeding, eyeball bleeding, urinary tract bleeding and genital bleeding.\n\nOn the morning of August 21, Seidokaikan and K-1 founder Kazuyoshi Ishii visited Hug at the hospital and Hug told him that if he should die soon, he would like to die in Japan. Andy was reportedly in good condition on August 22, watching television, eating without help and speaking to Ilona on the telephone. That day, he also released the following statement:\n\nHis condition worsened on August 23 as he had difficulty breathing in the morning and by afternoon had fallen into a coma and was placed on a life support system. While in the coma, his heart stopped three times but the doctors were able to regain his pulse. When his heart stopped a fourth time on August 24, the doctors decided against reviving him and let him pass away. He was pronounced dead at 4:21 pm on August 24, 2000, two weeks short of his thirty-sixth birthday.\n\nReporting of Hug's death was broadcast live on Japanese news channels Fuji Television, Japan News Network, NHK World and TV Asahi. Peter Aerts, who was at the Nippon Medical School hospital having treatment on his lower back at the time, broke down crying for over two hours when told of Hug's passing. When interviewed, he dedicated his performance in the forthcoming \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2000 Final\" to Hug. An hour-long press conference attended by the five doctors who treated Hug, Kazuyoshi Ishii and Francisco Filho was also held at 8:45 pm that night.\n\nHug's funeral was held on August 27 in Kyoto where his body was cremated and his ashes deposited in the cemetery of the Hoshuin temple. Eight hundred guests including Kazuyoshi Ishii, Hajime Kazumi, Akira Masuda, Shokei Matsui, Kenji Midori and Swiss President Adolf Ogi attended while more than twelve thousand mourners gathered outside. K-1 fighters Francisco Filho, Nobuaki Kakuda and Nicholas Pettas were among the pall-bearers.\n\nLegend: \n\nLegend: \n\n"}
{"id": "2157425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157425", "title": "Maria Kirilenko", "text": "Maria Kirilenko\n\nMaria Yuryevna Kirilenko-Stepanova (; born 25 January 1987) is a former professional tennis player from Russia. She won the 2002 US Open Girls' Singles, and won her first title on the WTA Tour in 2005, defeating Anna-Lena Grönefeld in the China Open. She reached three Grand Slam singles quarterfinals, at the 2010 Australian Open, the 2012 Wimbledon Championships, and the 2013 French Open. In women's doubles, she reached two Grand Slam finals, at the 2011 Australian Open and the 2012 French Open, won the 2012 WTA Tour Championships and was a bronze medalist at the 2012 London Olympics. In June 2013, Kirilenko reached her career-high ranking of world No. 10. In September 2014, she played her last WTA event in Beijing.\n\nIn 2002, Kirilenko became one of the youngest winners of the junior tournaments at the Canadian Open and US Open.\n\nIn 2002, Kirilenko started participating in WTA events. She began moving up the rankings in 2004, but was set back by an injury. At the 2004 French Open, Kirilenko took the first set off Serena Williams before losing in three sets. She was the runner-up to Nicole Pratt at the Hyderabad Open.\n\nAt the end of 2005, she climbed back up the rankings and won her first title in Beijing. On 12 June 2006, she broke into the world's top 20 for the first time. At the US Open, Kirilenko was seeded 20th and reached the third round, before losing to Aravane Rezaï.\n\nKirilenko made her debut for Russia at the Fed Cup tournament in April 2006. In the World Group quarterfinal tie against Belgium, she lost her singles match against 2005 US Open champion Kim Clijsters, but partnering with Dinara Safina, won her doubles match against Justine Henin and Clijsters. However, Russia ended up losing, 2–3.\n\nIn January 2007, she advanced to the third round of the Australian Open, before being defeated by third seed Svetlana Kuznetsova. She then competed in the Toray Pan Pacific Open in Tokyo, where she advanced to the second round, upsetting world No. 15 Shahar Pe'er of Israel, before being defeated by Ai Sugiyama. She then competed in the Dubai Tennis Championships, where she reached the second round, before losing in a close match to Daniela Hantuchová.\n\nAt the Acura Classic in San Diego, California, Kirilenko upset second seeded Jelena Janković to advance to the quarterfinals, before losing to fellow Russian Elena Dementieva. At the East West Bank Classic in Los Angeles, she upset sixth seed Marion Bartoli in straight sets before losing to eventual champion Ana Ivanovic in the quarterfinals.\nUnseeded at the US Open, she defeated Martina Müller and 22nd seed Katarina Srebotnik. She then lost to unseeded Julia Vakulenko. After the US Open, she appeared in the Sunfeast Open. There, Kirilenko won her second WTA Tour singles title, defeating unseeded Mariya Koryttseva in straight sets. The next week at a tournament in Seoul, Kirilenko, as the fourth seed also reached the finals, but lost to top seed Venus Williams.\n\nAt the Australian Open, Kirilenko reached the fourth round of a Grand Slam tournament for the first time in her career, beating sixth seed Anna Chakvetadze. Her next opponent was Daniela Hantuchová, to whom she lost, 6–1, 4–6, 4–6, after leading 6–1, 3–1.\n\nKirilenko then reached the second round of a Tier-I event in Doha, beating Ekaterina Makarova, before losing to Anabel Medina Garrigues in three sets. Kirilenko then lost four matches in a row at Dubai, Bangalore, Indian Wells, and Miami. However, as the second seed, she reached the final of a Tier-IV event at Estoril, where she defeated Iveta Benešová in straight sets. She also won the doubles title there, partnering with Flavia Pennetta. Kirilenko also won in Barcelona, defeating Martinez-Sanchez for her fourth career WTA title and the second of the year.\n\nKirilenko played at the Tier-III tournament in Cincinnati in August, where she was third seed. She reached the semifinals, where she lost to eventual champion Nadia Petrova. She partnered with Petrova as the second-seed doubles team and beat the top-seed pair of Hsieh Su-wei and Yaroslava Shvedova in the finals.\n\nKirilenko was seeded 27th at the Australian Open, but lost to future top five player Sara Errani in the first round.\n\nIn the Dubai doubles tournament, Kirilenko partnered with Agnieszka Radwańska, and even though they were unseeded, they reached the final, eventually losing to Liezel Huber and Cara Black, the world No. 1 doubles pairing at that time.\n\nAt the 2009 French Open, Kirilenko was unseeded in the singles tournament, and lost to Olivia Rogowska of Australia in the first round. In the doubles tournament, Kirilenko and doubles partner Flavia Pennetta of Italy were seeded eighth. They made it to the third round, before losing to 11th seeded Anna-Lena Grönefeld of Germany and Patty Schnyder of Switzerland.\n\nKirilenko was unseeded at Wimbledon and made it to the second round, losing to ninth seeded Caroline Wozniacki.\n\nAt the US Open, she made it to the third round, defeating her doubles partner Radwańska before losing to Li Na. She then competed in the Korea Open in Seoul, where she was the defending champion, but lost in the semifinals to eventual champion Kimiko Date-Krumm.\n\nKirilenko began the year by competing in the ASB Classic, where she reached the quarterfinals but lost to Shahar Pe'er. With a ranking at that time of No. 58, Kirilenko was unseeded at the Australian Open, where in the first round she upset her friend, former doubles partner, 2008 champion and 14th seed Maria Sharapova, 7–6, 3–6, 6–4, in a 3-hour 22-minute marathon. It was the second-longest women's match in Australian Open history (only behind the 2011 fourth-round match between Francesca Schiavone and Svetlana Kuznetsova). She advanced to the quarterfinals, losing to Zheng Jie, who was also unseeded for this tournament. In the doubles portion, she and her partner, Agnieszka Radwańska, were seeded 15th and advanced to the semifinals, losing there to the world No. 1 pairing of Cara Black and Liezel Huber in three sets.\n\nKirilenko entered as 32nd seed at the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells. She made it to the third round, losing there to second seeded Caroline Wozniacki.\nKirilenko participated in the Sony Ericsson Open in Miami as 32nd seed. Like Indian Wells, she advanced to the third round, again losing to Wozniacki.\n\nKirilenko played in Rome in the Internazionali BNL d'Italia, where she was unseeded. She advanced to the quarterfinals, where she lost to world No. 1 Serena Williams.\n\nKirilenko entered the French Open as 30th seed where she advanced to the round of 16 for the first time in her career, before losing to 17th seed and eventual champion Francesca Schiavone, having defeated defending champion Svetlana Kuznetsova en route. In the doubles draw, Kirilenko and Radwańska were seeded 11th. They reached the quarterfinals, before losing to the eventual champions Serena and Venus Williams in straight sets.\n\nAt Wimbledon, she was 27th seed in the singles draw. She advanced to the third round, losing to eighth seed Kim Clijsters.\nKirilenko also paired up with Agnieszka Radwańska in the doubles draw, where they were seeded 10th.\n\nKirilenko made the quarterfinals of the Bank of the West Classic in Stanford, California before losing to Radwańska. She entered in the doubles tournament with Victoria Azarenka, they ended in the semifinals.\n\nShe then reached the second rounds of Western & Southern Financial Group Women's Open and the Rogers Cup, losing to Vera Zvonareva and Victoria Azarenka, respectively. At the Pilot Pen Tennis, she reached the semifinals, losing to Nadia Petrova.\n\nShe reached the third round of the US Open losing to 11th seed Svetlana Kuznetsova.\n\nShe then reached the second rounds of Korea Open, losing to former world No. 1 Dinara Safina, and Toray Pan Pacific Open, losing to Flavia Pennetta. At the last Premier-Mandatory event of the year, the China Open, she lost in the third round to eventual finalist and compatriot Vera Zvonareva. In the HP Open, she retired in the second round due to a hip injury against Chang Kai-chen, after losing the first set 4–6. Kirilenko reached the final of the Kremlin Cup where she fell to Victoria Azarenka.\n\nKirilenko ended the 2010 season ranked No. 20 in the world.\n\nShe competed at the Hong Kong Tennis Classic and won the Gold Group Championship with her compatriots Vera Zvonareva and Yevgeny Kafelnikov. At the Australian Open, she failed to defend her quarterfinal points by being knocked out in the second round. However, in the doubles competition, she reached the final, partnered with Victoria Azarenka, but lost to Pennetta and Dulko. She then fell early in the Pattaya Open and Dubai Tennis Championships. She then reached the third round of both BNP Paribas Open and Sony Ericsson Open losing to Agnieszka Radwańska on both occasions. She then suffered three losses in a row in the second round of Family Circle Cup, and the first rounds of Mutua Madrid Open and Internazionali BNL d'Italia. However, she won doubles at the Mutua Madrid Open with Victoria Azarenka. At the French Open, she reached the fourth round losing to Andrea Petkovic in three sets.\n\nShe then fell in the first round of UNICEF Open to Kimiko Date-Krumm, However, she rebounded by reaching the third round of the Wimbledon Championships, eventually being stopped by the seventh-seeded Serena Williams. She then failed to win back-to-back matches falling in the second rounds of Bank of the West Classic, Mercury Insurance Open, first round of Rogers Cup, and the second rounds of Western & Southern Open and Bank of the West Classic. She then rebounded at the US Open, losing to eventual champion Samantha Stosur 2–6, 7–6, 3–6 in the fourth round. The second set tie-break score of 15–17 was the longest in any major in the history of women's tennis.\n\nShe reached her first semifinal of the year at the Guangzhou International Women's Open, losing to Chanelle Scheepers 5–7, 7–5, 4–6. She then played at the Pan Pacific Open and the China Open, where she defeated Samantha Stosur in three sets in both occasions in the second round; she also fell in the quarterfinals on both events losing to Vera Zvonareva and Monica Niculescu, respectively. She played her last tournament of the year at the BGL Luxembourg Open, where she had to withdrew in the second round due to an ankle injury.\n\nKirilenko began her 2012 season at the Apia International Sydney in Sydney. She lost in the second round of qualifying to Sofia Arvidsson. Seeded twenty-seventh at the Australian Open, Kirilenko retired during her third-round match against second seed Petra Kvitová due to an upper left leg injury.\n\nSeeded fourth at the PTT Pattaya Open, Kirilenko reached the final where she was defeated by third seed Daniela Hantuchová. In Doha at the Qatar Total Open, Kirilenko lost in the second round to fourteenth seed Svetlana Kuznetsova. At the Dubai Tennis Championships, Kirilenko was defeated in the second round by Ana Ivanovic. Seeded twentieth at the BNP Paribas Open, Kirilenko advanced to the quarterfinal where she lost to second seed Maria Sharapova. Seeded twenty-second in Miami at the Sony Ericsson Open, Kirilenko was defeated in the fourth round by seventh seed Marion Bartoli.\n\nKirilenko began her clay-court season at the Estoril Open. Seeded second, she lost in the second round to qualifier Karin Knapp. Seeded sixteenth at the Mutua Madrid Open, Kirilenko was defeated in the second round by Ekaterina Makarova. Seeded sixteenth in Rome at the Italian Open, Kirilenko lost in the first round to Flavia Pennetta. Seeded third at the Internationaux de Strasbourg, Kirilenko retired during her first-round match against Sloane Stephens due to a right ankle injury. Seeded sixteenth at the French Open, Kirilenko was defeated in the second round by Klára Zakopalová.\n\nKirilenko played only one tournament before Wimbledon which was the UNICEF Open. Seeded fifth, she lost in the first round to Francesca Schiavone. Kirilenko then played at the Wimbledon Championships where she was the seventeenth seed. She had sudden success reaching the round of 16 for the first time with easy wins over Alexandra Cadanțu, Lourdes Domínguez Lino and Sorana Cîrstea. She had officially reached the second week of all four majors. She defeated thirtieth seed Peng Shuai to reach her second Grand Slam quarterfinal and her first at Wimbledon. After almost three hours of play, three rain delays and switching courts, she eventually lost in a very close and tough quarterfinal to third seed and eventual finalist Agnieszka Radwańska.\n\nPlaying for Russia at the Summer Olympics, Kirilenko reached the semifinal upsetting sixth seed Petra Kvitová in her quarterfinal match. She lost the semifinal match to eventual silver medalist Maria Sharapova. Despite the loss, she still had a chance to win the bronze medal. In the bronze medal match, she was defeated by Victoria Azarenka to end u being in 4th place. However, she won a bronze medal in women's doubles with Nadia Petrova by beating the No. 1 ranked team of Liezel Huber/Lisa Raymond.\n\nKirilenko started her preparation for the US Open at the Western & Southern Open in Cincinnati. Seeded twelfth, she lost in the first round to Venus Williams. She bounced back into form at the Premier level New Haven Open at Yale. Seeded seventh, Kirilenko reached her second final of the year where she was defeated by second seed Petra Kvitová. Seeded fourteenth at the US Open, Kirilenko suffered a third-round upset at the hands of Andrea Hlaváčková. In doubles, Kirilenko and Petrova upset the Williams sisters in the third round before losing in the quarterfinal to eighth seeds Nuria Llagostera Vives/María José Martínez Sánchez.\n\nSeeded second at the Korea Open, Kirilenko retired from her first-round match against Lee So-ra due to a back injury. Competing as the thirteenth seed at the China Open, Kirilenko lost in the first round to Ekaterina Makarova. Seeded seventh at the Kremlin Cup, Kirilenko was defeated in the semifinal by Sofia Arvidsson. Seeded third at the Qatar Airways Tournament of Champions, Kirilenko lost her first match to second seed Nadia Petrova, but she won her second one over eighth seed Tsvetana Pironkova. She withdrew from her third match against sixth seed Jie Zheng due to an upper respiratory illness. Kirilenko played her final tournament of the season at the WTA Tour Championships. She and Petrova won the doubles title beating Andrea Hlaváčková/Lucie Hradecká in the final.\n\nKirilenko ended the year ranked 14 in singles and 7 in doubles.\n\nBeginning her season at the Apia International Sydney, Kirilenko lost in the second round to third seed Sara Errani. Seeded fourteenth at the Australian Open, Kirilenko made it to the fourth round where she lost to third seed Serena Williams.\n\nSeeded second at the PTT Pattaya Open, Kirilenko won the tournament defeating fifth seed Sabine Lisicki in the final. During the Fed Cup tie versus Japan, Kirilenko played one match and beat Kimiko Date-Krumm. Russia won the tie 3-2 to advance to the semifinal. Seeded twelfth at the Qatar Total Open, Kirilenko retired from her first-round match versus qualifier Ekaterina Bychkova due to a shoulder injury. Seeded thirteenth at the BNP Paribas Open, Kirilenko reached the semifinal after wins over Christina McHale, qualifier Mallory Burdette, third seed Agnieszka Radwańska, and fifth seed Petra Kvitová. She was defeated in her semifinal match by second seed and eventual champion Maria Sharapova. Seeded fourteenth at the Sony Open Tennis, Kirilenko lost in the third round to twenty-first seed Klára Zakopalová. Seeded third in Mexico at the Monterrey Open, Kirilenko made it to the semifinal where she was defeated by top seed and eventual finalist Angelique Kerber. In the Fed Cup semifinal tie versus Slovakia, Kirilenko lost her first match to Daniela Hantuchová but beat Dominika Cibulková in her final match. Russia won 3-2 to advance to the final in November versus Italy.\n\nKirilenko began her preparation for the French Open at the Mutua Madrid Open. Seeded thirteenth, she was defeated in the third round by top seed, defending champion, and eventual champion Serena Williams. Seeded twelfth at the Italian Open, Kirilenko retired during her third-round match against seventh seed Sara Errani due to a left knee injury. Seeded twelfth at the French Open, Kirilenko defeated Nina Bratchikova, Ashleigh Barty to advance to the third round where she defeated Stefanie Vögele. In the fourth round, she defeated Bethanie Mattek-Sands to reach her first quarterfinal at the French Open. She subsequently lost her quarterfinal match to her former doubles partner and third seed Victoria Azarenka. Her run in Paris catapulted her into the top 10 for the first time.\n\nSeeded sixth at the Aegon International, Kirilenko was suffering from a knee injury, but she still made it through to the quarterfinal where she was defeated by Yanina Wickmayer. Seeded tenth at the Wimbledon Championships, Kirilenko suffered a first-round upset at the hands of home crowd favorite Laura Robson. As a result, Kirilenko dropped to No. 12 in the world rankings due to the fact that she was defending a quarterfinal appearance from 2012.\n\nKirilenko started her US Open series at the Rogers Cup. Seeded eleventh, she lost in the second round to Alizé Cornet. Seeded sixteenth at the Western & Southern Open, Kirilenko was defeated in the second round by Mona Barthel. Seeded fourteenth at the US Open, Kirilenko lost in the third round to twenty-first seed Simona Halep.\n\nKirilenko started the Asian swing at the Korea Open. Seeded second, she was defeated in the second round by Kimiko Date-Krumm. In Beijing at the China Open, Kirilenko lost in the third round to top seed and eventual champion Serena Williams. Seeded third at the Kremlin Cup, Kirilenko was defeated in the second round by Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova. Injury ended her season at the Garanti Koza WTA Tournament of Champions in Sofia with a 0–5 retirement loss to Alizé Cornet.\n\nKirilenko ended the year ranked 19.\n\nKirilenko was not listed on any entry lists for 2014 tournaments, still recovering from the knee injury suffered in the Tournament of Champions in Sofia. She also missed the Australian Open due to the injury.\n\nAfter missing the pair of Premier Mandatory events at Indian Wells and Miami, Kirilenko made her comeback at the Family Circle Cup in Charleston. Seeded tenth, she was upset in the first round by qualifier Belinda Bencic, who eventually reached her first WTA semifinal. At the Mutua Madrid Open, Kirilenko defeated qualifier Kristina Mladenovic in the first round to recorded her first victory of the year. She withdrew from her second-round match against qualifier Caroline Garcia due to a left wrist injury. In Rome at the Italian Open, Kirilenko lost to Svetlana Kuznetsova in the first round. Kirilenko exited in the first round at the French Open, winning three games against Johanna Larsson. As a result, her ranking plunged 44 places down to 88 after failing to defend quarterfinal points.\n\nKirilenko played the pre-Wimbledon tournament in Rosmalen at the Topshelf Open but lost to Mona Barthel in the first round. Kirilenko entered the Wimbledon Championships ranked 109, her lowest ranking in five years. She caused an upset by defeating eighteenth seed and the previous year's quarterfinalist Sloane Stephens in the first round. She was defeated in the second round by Peng Shuai.\n\nAfter a month-long break, Kirilenko entered the US Open unseeded and drew fifth seed and 2006 champion Maria Sharapova in the first round. She lost the match in straight sets.\n\nIn Seoul, South Korea at the Korea Open, Kirilenko participated as a wildcard. She reached her first quarterfinal in 15 months by defeating Donna Vekić and third seed Klára Koukalová in her first two matches. She then defeated sixth seed Kaia Kanepi for a place in the semifinals. Her run came to an end in the hands of second seed and eventual champion Karolína Plíšková. Kirilenko played her final tournament of the season at the China Open. She was defeated in the first round by qualifier Tsvetana Pironkova.\n\nKirilenko ended the year ranked 186.\n\nBetween 2015 and 2017, Kirilenko gave birth to two children, and has since not returned to professional tennis; it is not known for certain whether or not Kirilenko will return to the game, as she has not competed professionally since 2014, and at present she is not ranked by the WTA.\n\nIn 2006, Kirilenko was selected to be the face of Adidas by Stella McCartney tennis range, designed by noted British fashion designer Stella McCartney and has played exclusively in the gear since the Australian Open. In 2009, she was replaced by Caroline Wozniacki following the US Open.\n\nShe appeared in the 2009 \"Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Edition\" alongside Daniela Hantuchová and Tatiana Golovin in a pictorial entitled \"Volley of the Dolls\".\n\nKirilenko dated fellow Russian tennis player Igor Andreev for several years. They split in 2011.\n\nIn November 2011, Russian ice-hockey player Alexander Ovechkin of the Washington Capitals identified Kirilenko as his girlfriend on his Twitter account. On 31 December 2012, Ovechkin confirmed the rumors that he and Kirilenko were engaged. In July 2014, she called off her planned wedding saying in comments distributed by the Russian Tennis Federation that there were \"a lot of reasons\" behind her decision. Ovechkin had faced questions from Russian media about the relationship when he did not accompany Kirilenko to Wimbledon in June.\n\nOn 24 January 2015, Kirilenko got married but the name of her husband was not revealed until a few days later: she married Alexei Stepanov, reported to be the head of the Committee of Public Services in Moscow.\n\nIn July 2015, following a ten-month absence from professional tennis, it was reported that Kirilenko had given birth to a baby boy. In July 2017, Kirilenko gave birth to a baby girl.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157439", "title": "Paul Wentworth", "text": "Paul Wentworth\n\nPaul Wentworth (1533–1593), a prominent English member of parliament (1559, 1563 and 1572) in the reign of Elizabeth I, was a member of the Lillingstone Lovell branch of the family.\n\nHis father Sir Nicholas Wentworth (died 1557) was chief porter of Calais. Paul Wentworth was of Puritan sympathies, and he first came into notice by the freedom with which in 1566 he criticized Elizabeth's prohibition of discussion in parliament on the question of her successor.\n\nPaul, who was probably the author of the famous puritan devotional book \"The Miscellanie, or Regestrie and Methodicall Directorie of Orizons\" (London, 1615), died in 1593. He became possessed of Burnham Abbey through his wife, to whose first husband, William Tyldesley, it had been granted at the dissolution of the monasteries by Henry VIII.\n\nHis brother Peter Wentworth was also a prominent Puritan. The significance of both Paul and Peter Wentworth has in the past been exaggerated. In reality, although they did contend for freedom of speech (for which they were both imprisoned), neither had any impact. Graves refers to them as \"standard bearers without an army\" as they had no significant following.\n"}
{"id": "2157440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157440", "title": "Margareten", "text": "Margareten\n\nMargareten (; ) is the fifth district of Vienna (). It is near the old town of Vienna and was established as a district in 1850, but borders changed later. Margareten is a residential urban area, with over 25,000 inhabitants per km², one of the most densely populated districts in Vienna.\n\nThe district of Margareten was formed from six suburbs. The former city of Margareten itself developed from an estate with the same name and was later built into a castle. It was destroyed in both Turkish sieges of Vienna, but rebuilt each time. Nearby lay Nikolsdorf, which was systemically laid out in the period 1555-1568 and named after the convent of St. Nikolai. Matzleinsdorf emerged in 1130 and was property of the Babenberger family. The name \"Laurenzergrund\" (\"St. Lawrence ground\") comes from an area in Matzleindorf with the Laurenzer gully. After the closing of the convent by Emperor Joseph II, it became an independent city.\n\nReinprechtsdorf was a village in the Middle Ages, abandoned earlier, but the name remained as a path waypoint. In 1730, residential houses were again built in the area. Nearby, a hunting lodge was built, wherefrom the suburb Hundsturm (\"Hounds tower\") gets its name. The hunting lodge was later replaced with a fort, which was taken down by 1885.\n\nThose six areas, along with a number of others, were incorporated on March 5, 1850, into the fourth district of Wieden. After a long debate over the different social circumstances of the population, in 1861 the fifth district was separated. In 1873 the district lost its southern area to the, much larger, 10th district, Favoriten. Since then, the formerly rural district has become a thickly populated urban area with many workers and eventually large residential homes.\n\nMargareten is in the southwest of Vienna and is bounded to the north by the Vienna River, in the west and south by the Gürtel belt. The Vienna River is also the border to the district Mariahilf, while the belt is the boundary of the districts Favoriten and Meidling. The eastern district boundary with Wieden runs contrary to the other inner districts in the transverse rather than longitudinal. Thus, the district boundary follows the streets: \"Kettenbrückengasse, Margaretenstraße, Kleine Neugasse, Mittersteig, Ziegelofengasse, Blechturmgasse\" until the Gürtel belt. Margareten is the only district within the Vienna Belt which is not within the Inner City borders. The district area is part of the Katastralgemeinde \"Margareten\", which has a hectare of the territory of the neighboring district Mariahilf. The lowest point in Margareten is nearly in the Wiental. In the south (at Wienerberg hill), the land rises slightly. Margareten has no sharp altitudes, or mountains: the total height difference is approximately .\n\nThe developed area of Margareten is 63.8% (Vienna citywide 33.32%), with around 82% accounted for by residential area. With 31.7%, the traffic area takes the second highest percentage of the district area (for Vienna citywide traffic is only 13.75%). The green spaces cover only 4.54% of the district area (for Vienna citywide: 48.26%), while 91.54% will be used for parks. Courtyards, individual trees, groups of trees, and green plants are the largest in percentage share of green areas, in addition to the approximately 80 rooftop gardens to count. Only three other districts (Neubau, Mariahilf and Josefstadt) have even less green space than Margareten, which since 2000, has doubled the proportion of green space. Superficial waters, forests, small gardens or agricultural areas are absent from Margareten.\n\nIn the seven wells area of Oberreinprechtsdorf, arise many springs. In 1562, the Imperial Court finally got its own first water supply by the \"Siebenbrunner Hofwasserleitung\", which was commissioned and built by Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand I. The water was collected in seven wells and run through cast-iron pipes to a reservoir under the Augustinian bastion in Vienna, from where it was piped into the Hofburg Palace. By Margareten Fountain at Margareten Square, the Emperor permitted from 1829, the citizens to use the \"Hofwasserleitung\". Today, the seven wells are shown through the Siebenbrunnen at Siebenbrunnenplatz.\n\nMargareten mainly consists of Pleistocene terrace pebbles, from the period between 1.75 million years ago and 11,500 years ago (in the course of the Ice Age). The district lies largely on the Wienerberg terrace, which originated in the Beestonian stage. In the area of the Vienna River, there are also loess, and loess loam soils, particularly in the part of Margareten. Near the river there are extant Vienna deposits (Grobklastika), which have a small size and thickness. Due to origin from the Flyschzone, they are made of clay or sandstone plates and therefore, have little relevance to the groundwater in the city.\n\nIn Margareten, there is no official weather station with long-term metrics. Its proximity to the Inner City and similar areas with a high concentration of buildings and roads, and a small amount of green space, the official ZAMG weather are used inside the city for the climate data in Margareten. <br>\nAs in Vienna, the climate in Margareten has oceanic influences from the West and continental influences from the east. Margareten's climate is typically of lower precipitation, little snow, lots of cloudy, moderately cold days in winter, sunny and hot days in summer. The winters are mild, compared to the suburbs (outside of the Gürtel belt, on average up to 2 °C (35 °F). The average air temperature during the years 1971 to 2000 was 11.4 °C (53 °F). The average annual precipitation is around 548 mm (21.6 inches). There are: 50.4 frost days and 18.6 ice days, 67.6 summer and 17.9 hot days. Margareten has had 1883.6 hours of sunshine that are incurred, while in December only 50.6 hours of sunshine, but in July, however, 260.4 hours of sunshine. The wind usually comes from the west or northwest.\n\nThe current District of Margareten included, in the time before 1850, several independent suburbs. The history of the various suburbs by 1850 can be found on the respective entries (below).\n\nFor following former suburbs of the district formed Margareten:\n\nAll suburbs of the current Margareten District, along with many nearby, were incorporated on March 6, 1850 as the 4th District Wieden. After lengthy debate, the current 5th District was cut from that in 1861, because of the different conditions within the district. The reason was that the then great expansion of the district Wieden had economically disabled the administration. Moreover, the possibility of facilitating the monitoring and awareness of historically evolved social, economic and structural differences, also helped to change the district division from the year 1850, in line with the existing police districts of Wieden and Margareten.\n\nThus, the then 4th District has been separated in the transverse direction. The district boundary was then defined as follows: Kettenbrückengasse, today's Margaret Street, Little Neugasse, Mittersteig, Ziegelofengasse, Blechturmgasse, on the Linienwall (now Vienna Belt) for Matzleinsdorfer Catholic Cemetery (now Waldmüllerpark), along the Laxenburger Street by Wienerberg hill. This boundary line separated the citizens of the 4th district Wieden, with approximately 55,000 residents, from the 5th district (Margareten district) with about 32,000 residents.\n\nIn 1874, Margareten lost the entire section at the south part of the Vienna Belt (e.g., Protestant Cemetery Matzleinsdorf) to the 10th District Favoriten. In 1907, Margareten reduced by the cession of the west, outside of the belt part of the former suburban Hundsturm (\"Neumargareten\" including Hundsturm Cemetery), to the 12th District Meidling, its surface area to the present size.\n\nThe 5th District appeared at its inception as still predominantly rural in character, especially against the Liner Wall, where there were numerous parks, gardens, meadows, fields and vegetable fields. The area southwest of the district could not be built until 1870, when the seven sources since 1562 served as the Vienna's water supply \"Hofwasserleitung\". The space was sparsely populated between the current Margaret Street and Siebenbrunnengasse. The Reinprechtsdorferstraße street was then installed only in its lower course. Most existing streets still ended up as deadends.\n\nMargareten was originally an artisan district, which developed in the 19th century, by the growing population, into a working-class district. With increasing industrialization, until the turn of the century in many ways, the shift came from rural or suburban areas to more a densely built-up urban area. In 1869, in 921 houses lived around 54,000 inhabitants. Up to 1900, the number of houses rose to 1579 and the number of dwellings was approximately 25,300. Margareten lived in the century about 107,000 inhabitants. The biggest problem in Margareten presented the unfavorable living conditions. An average apartment, of room and kitchen, was home to more than four people. Between 1860 and 1912, in the district some major institutions were created: an orphanage (1864), an Almshouse and Hartmannspital (1865). The new administration building in the Schönbrunnerstraße 54 was obtained in 1867 and opened in 1872, with the Margaretenbad. In 1877, the oldest Volksbildungsverein of Vienna (today: VHS polycollege) was founded, and in 1909 to 1911 the house in the Stöbergasse 11-15 was included. The gaslight came relatively late, installed in 1899, and in 1911, the Vienna River was vaulted (enclosed). In the vicinity of the Naschmarkt in 1902, Rüdigerhof was built by the architect Oskar Marmorek. Between 1907 and 1908, the association Beth Aharon established a synagogue at Siebenbrunnengasse 1a, which was destroyed during the November Pogrom (1938). The Mittersteig Prison (\"Justizanstalt Mittersteig\") was built from 1908 to 1910 next to the synagogue, whose first director was Willibald Sluga. Currently (2008) this institution serves in the heart of Vienna for law enforcement, with over 55 prison officers/officials.\n\nTransportation in the district was opened in 1877 by a horse-tram line (\"Pferdetramwaylinie\"). In the following years, further tram lines were added and subsequently changed in 1902 to electric operation. Following the establishment of the Vienna tram, at the end of the 19th century, the line was canceled and the Wall Gürtel belt created. This connection was given to Margareten Wientallinie of the Vienna tram (now Subway Line 4 (Vienna) U4). In the 19th century, Vienna General Omnibus AG began, a bus line operated with horses after Matzleinsdorf. For over 100 years, the Vienna belt-Baden ran through Margareten and built to operate the station \"Wolfganggasse Vienna\" to the then district area (now Meidling).\n\nAlthough the population declined in Margaret, the pent-up demand for housing was relatively large. The number of houses rose during 1910-1923, from 1563 to 1626 houses, and remained with 1618 houses in 1934 almost the same count, despite strong local construction activity. This had two reasons: first, major developments have been built, and secondly, the houses were built higher and the number of four-and five-storey homes increased. To alleviate the large housing shortage after the First World War, communal housing was created in Vienna. The free area in Margareten - along the \"belt Drasche\" - offered the ability to reach large communal dwellings. The result was in 1919-1920, as the Metzleinstaler Court, the first residential building of the municipality of Vienna, with 244 apartments. By 1930, five other large residential buildings were erected, so that the belt had the colloquial name \"Ring of the proletariat\". The worker gave the district while the Civil War 1934 opposition to the Austro-fascist corporate state. The Reumannhof, a communal dwelling in 1924, had as a main base of the Defense League a central role and has been very high content of protective covenant. On 12 February 1934, fighting broke out against 14 clock Reumannhof, that ended only with the collapse of a general strike by 20 clock, and then surrendered the entrenched Schutzbund.\n\nThe Margaret synagogue, located in the Siebenbrunnengasse 1a, was destroyed during the November pogrom (1938), \"Kristallnacht\". During World War II, large parts of Margareten were destroyed by bombing raids since the war effort ran institutions, such as the Austrian Southern Railway and the freight station Matzleinsdorf, at the county line. Also heavily damaged was the area around the Vienna River.\n\nIn the liberation of Vienna by the Red Army, troops remained in the area occupied by the Volkssturm and SS Amtshaus from the fighting since the Volkssturm units during an air raid in the flight taken. On April 10, 1945, the Soviet army arrived in Margareten and installed in the Upper Amtshausgasse 3-5 (former employment), the Russian commander. Nevertheless, the majority of the roads after the war were impassable, and there was neither light nor gas. The public transport was decommissioned, and the parks were used as dumping sites for debris and garbage. Homelessness, disease, hunger and chaos dominated the immediate postwar period.\n\nIn the years of the Austrian Occupation (\"Besatzung\"), 1945 to 1955, Margareten was part of the British Sector of Vienna. Using the British-supplied excavators, Schlürf-maschinen and trucks, as well as through the use of more than 37,000 people who contributed over 300,000 hours of work, the clean-up could be taken forward quickly, so that Margareten was the first district of Vienna, on 19 September 1946, to be cleared and could begin to rebuild. The communal housing of the interwar period was continued, and there was the Matzleinsdorfer Tower, which introduced a new style in public housing. Instead of the former common blocks, the inter-individual houses were built in more relaxed design. Nevertheless, the population declined in the following years, until 2001. The number of foreign residents, especially from ex-Yugoslavia and Turkey increased considerably.\nThe biggest problem is the aging of the Margaretner residential buildings, since approximately 60% of the roughly 2,000 buildings were built before the First World War. About 75% of all dwellings are for rent. The communal housing, with 17% of all houses, is very well represented.\n\nAs in other districts of Vienna, the populace cleared space for car traffic and offered valuable buildings. Buses replaced the trams, and the U-tram (\"Unterpflaster tram\") was built along the belt. During the construction of the tram system, the Unterpflaster was put in the middle of the Wiedner Hauptstrasse. The nearby Baroque Matzleinsdorfer church (Florianikirche) in 1965, despite protests from the population was dismantled. The new building of the church was constructed as a church without towers, at the corner of Main street / Laurenzgasse. Added to this was the expansion of Reinprechtsdorfer bridge and the Pilgram bridge. In September 1969, the Vienna S-Bahn rail Matzleinsdorfer Station Square was opened, and thus Margareten was near the Vienna tram, after a second high-level network of the public transport in Vienna. From the year 1976, the tram was finally suspended, rebuilt, and in 1980 replaced by U4.\n\nIn 1986, the former Margaretenbad was closed, but in 1989 converted into a leisure pool with water slide. Since 2006, also housed in the Margaretenbad is a fitness center. At Arbeitergasse lane, the city, built in 1990, a senior citizen's home. Almost the entire district area has been restricted traffic except the passage of roads, and the parking problem was defused by the expansion of parking (on 2 June 1997). Increasingly, segregated bicycle paths were built, and some opened streets for cycling against the one-way. In 1999, there was a slight modification of district boundaries, while in the field of Kettenbrückengasse, the boundaries of the 4th District have been extended.\n\nSince 2000, the green space of Margareten has been increased by planting some trees during the reconstruction of roads and parking areas. In this way, several streets have already been redesigned in Margareten, such as the Upper Amtshausgasse lane. In addition, in 2007, a car park was tried in the middle belt of the joint vegetation.\n\nDue to the increased noise (automobile traffic, railway, suburban railway), a barrier was added in 2007. In the area of the Vienna belt, an high and long noise barrier was erected in the community-development \"Theodor Körner Hof\". The elements are made of glass to get enough light and brightness in the area between the houses. The top row as a solar panel by WienEnergie has been installed: WienStrom the first time in this form is used. By the new arrangement of the visual and shelterbelts to prevent reflection, action for the protection of birds has been taken.\n\nIn 1869, nearly 54,000 people lived in the district area. Over the next 30 to 40 years, the population doubled to almost 108,000 (circa 1900). Although it was only after World War I when the large apartment buildings were built along the Vienna belt, the population declined continuously until the 2001 census, due to the increased housing needs. Since the record-low population of 49,116 in 2001, there has again been a slight increase in the population, of about +1% per year.\n\nMargaret is, with over 25,000 inhabitants per km², one of the most densely populated districts in Vienna.\n\nThe proportion of people who are 60 years, and over, is below average with 19.7%, since for Vienna citywide, this share is 22.2%. The proportion of the population under 15 years was 14.3%. The percentage of female population corresponds to 52.4%, exactly the average of Vienna.\nOf the 42,111 residents of Margaret in 2001 who were aged over 15 years, 12.6% have a university degree, University of Applied Sciences in Austria or Academy, as the highest level of education (higher than Vienna's average: 11.8%). Another 16.4% have completed a Matura (Vienna average: 15.7%), 34.2% had an Apprenticeship or Austrian school BMS (below Vienna's average: 39.2%), and 36.9% of the Margaretners have compulsory education (as the highest degree, Vienna average: 33.2%).\nThe average annual net income of a worker in 2005 was 16,873 euros (Vienna: 18,948 euros), with a retired annual income of 15,558 euros (Vienna: 16,802 euros). The male population earned 18,436 euros (net Pensioner: 17,915 Euros), however, the female population earned only 15,143 euros (net Pensioner: 14,062 euros). Overall, Margareten is about 11% below the average economic level of Vienna.\n\nThe proportion of Margaretners with foreign citizenship in 2001 was, with 23.2%, around 6% above the average of Vienna. There were 7% of Margaretners with citizenship of Serbia and Montenegro, 4.4% Turkish citizen. Behind, followed Bosnia (at 2.3%) and Croats and Germans, whose share of the population, however, is only 1.5 to 1%. Overall, in 2001 approximately 32% of Margaretners had been born in another country; therefore, only 64.4% indicated the Margaretner German as a common language. Another 10.2% spoke mainly Serbian, 7.6% Turkish, 3.4% Croatian and 1.1% Hungarian (in 2001).\n\nThe proportion of people of Roman Catholic faith is 42.2% (in 2001). There are the townships of three Roman Catholic parishes that belong to the City Deanery 4 / 5 (Archdiocese of Vienna). Proportionately, behind the people with a Roman Catholic denomination, 11.9% followed Islamic and 9.6% with Orthodox religion. The followers of the Evangelical church are, at 4.3%, in the fourth spot. Yet, 24.6% of Margaretners stated no religious persuasion.\n\nOnly since 1890 are there records of the political life of Margareten. In the elections in the municipal council in April 1891, all six council seats were won by the Christian Social Party (the predecessor party of the Austrian People's Party. It was not until the year 1906, the breaking of the Christian-led front in Margareten, when Franz Domes was elected to represent the Socialist Workers Party (SDAP). On the basis of the existing voters until 1919, the Christian dominance was obtained.\n\nSince the introduction of universal suffrage in Vienna in 1919, Margareten had, with the exception of the years 1934 to 1945, the only social-democratic district leader, the first Albert Hummel. The number of seats in the District changed regularly; since the 1987 elections, there are 40 district councils in Margareten. In 1987, the electoral mandates were distributed as follows: 22 SPÖ, 12 ÖVP, 4 Freedom Party (FPÖ) and 2 GAL (green).\n\nIn the district election on 10 November 1991, the SPÖ won with 19 seats, only a relative majority, the Freedom Party into second position with 9 seats, the ÖVP slid off with 8 seats to the third position and the GAL, accounted for 4 seats. Kurt Henry was re-elected as district leader, Heinrich Koch's deputy, took the place of Martina Pucher (ÖVP), Dietmar Brandl (FPÖ). The 1996 elections had a massive loss of votes of the two major parties (SPÖ and ÖVP) and electoral gains of the small parties: FPÖ, the Greens, and Liberal Forum (LIF).\n\nIn 2001, the election was marked by the electoral gains of the SPÖ and the Greens. The FPÖ lost more than 7% of the vote in 1996, but remained the second largest group. The Greens overtook the ÖVP, and thus were the third strongest force. The number of seats in 2001 was: 18 SPÖ, 8 FPÖ, 7 Green, 6 People's Party and 1 LIF.\n\nAt the last district election in 2005, there were strong electoral gains of the Greens and they were the second strongest political group. Thus Margareten sat in a development that has already been observed in other areas within the Vienna belt - the Greens to contest the District Director of the SPÖ. The Freedom Party lost many votes and is only the fourth-strongest party. Each of the two major parties gained about 1% of votes. The LIF, the KPO, and the BZÖ did not made their way into the District council seats. Therefore, since 2005 the count of seats: 18 SPÖ, 10 Green, 7 FPÖ, and 5 ÖVP.\n\nThe coat of arms of the district is a six-part seal and represents the six former, independent suburbs merged: Margareten, Nikolsdorf, Matzleinsdorf, Hundsturm, Reinprechtsdorf and Laurenzergrund.\nThe six arms are allocated as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157445", "title": "Hoyt Sherman", "text": "Hoyt Sherman\n\nMajor Hoyt Sherman (November 21, 1827 – 1904), a member of the prominent Sherman family, was an American banker.\n\nHoyt Sherman was born in Lancaster, Ohio, the son of Charles R. Sherman, Judge of the Ohio Supreme Court. He was the younger brother of US Federal Judge Charles Taylor Sherman, US Senator John Sherman the distinguished Ohio statesman, and of Major General William T. Sherman of Civil War fame. Until eighteen years of age, Hoyt's time was divided between school and the printing office. In the spring of 1848 he came to Fort Des Moines, Iowa, then far out on the western frontier. In 1849 he was admitted to the bar and began to practice law, and also engaged in real estate business. In March of that year he was appointed by President Zachary Taylor postmaster of Des Moines, holding that position until the inauguration of President Franklin Pierce, when he resigned and was elected clerk of the District Court.\n\nIn 1854, he was the senior member of the banking house of Hoyt Sherman & Co., and upon the establishment of the State Bank of Iowa he became cashier of the Des Moines branch and was one of the directors on part of the State to supervise the system and guard the public interests. When the American Civil War began Mr. Sherman was appointed by President Abraham Lincoln paymaster in the Union army with the rank of major, holding the position for three years. He was one of the organizers of the Equitable Life Insurance Company of Iowa and for many years its general manager. That institution owes much of its stability and high standing to Major Sherman's reputation for integrity and skillful management.\n\nIn 1866, Major Sherman was a member of the House of the Eleventh General Assembly where he was chairman of the committee on railroads and a member of the committee of ways and means. In 1886, he was one of the founders of the Pioneer Lawmakers' Association and was one of its most influential members, serving as president and long a member of the executive committee. He contributed valuable historical articles to the Annals of Iowa on \"\"Early Banking in Iowa,\"\" and on the \"\"State Bank of Iowa.\"\" For many years he was the chief executive officer of the Associated Charities of Des Moines.\n\nSherman married Sara Elvira Moulton on December 25, 1855. One of their daughters, Adaline Moulton Sherman, was married to Frank Bestow Wiborg, and their children included Mary Hoyt Wiborg and Sara Sherman Wiborg.\n\nIn 1877 Hoyt Sherman built a grand manor; the structure is now a museum and performing arts center. The original house and gallery now display a collection of 19th- and 20th-century paintings, as well as elaborately carved 17th-century furniture and other rare artifacts. The mansion, now known as Hoyt Sherman Place, lent its name to the surrounding Des Moines neighborhood of Sherman Hill.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157449", "title": "Sylvain Lévi", "text": "Sylvain Lévi\n\nSylvain Lévi (March 28, 1863 – October 30, 1935) was an influential orientalist and indologist who taught Sanskrit and Indian religion at the École pratique des hautes études.\n\nLévi's book \"Théâtre Indien\" is an important work on the subject of Indian performance art, and Lévi also conducted some of the earliest analysis of Tokharian fragments discovered in Western China. Lévi exerted a significant influence on the life and thought of Marcel Mauss, the nephew of Émile Durkheim.\n\nSylvain Lévi was a co-founder of the École française d'Extrême-Orient in Hanoi.\n\nAccording to the Universal Jewish Encyclopedia, Lévi was the (one of the) founder(s) of the École française d'Extrême-Orient (French School of the Far East) in Hanoi. The École française d'Extrême-Orient's website notes that the school was founded in Hanoi in 1902.\n\nHe was also an early opponent of the traditionalist author René Guénon, citing the latter's uncritical belief in a \"Perennial philosophy\", that a primal truth revealed directly to primitive humanity, based on an extreme reductionist view of Hinduism, which was the subject of Guénon's first book, \"L'Introduction générale a l'étude des doctrines hindoues\". That was a thesis delivered to Lévi at the Sorbonne and rejected.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157450", "title": "Forestry law", "text": "Forestry law\n\n<onlyinclude>\nForestry laws govern activities in designated forest lands, most commonly with respect to forest management and timber harvesting. Ancillary laws may regulate forest land acquisition and prescribed burn practices. Forest management laws generally adopt management policies, such as multiple use and sustained yield, by which public forest resources are to be managed. Governmental agencies are generally responsible for planning and implementing forestry laws on public forest lands, and may be involved in forest inventory, planning, and conservation, and oversight of timber sales. Broader initiatives may seek to slow or reverse deforestation.</onlyinclude>\n\nForestry laws are intended to protect resources and prevent forest clearing, logging, hunting, and collecting vegetation. However, there are no clear limitations set within these laws in regards to allowable cuts, harvesting rotations, and minimum harvesting diameters. Forest management plans state goals for the upkeep of the land, as well as steps to achieve them. foresters create management plans that account for each differentiated forest itself.\n\nIn some cases, plans are made with the assumption that ecosystems within a forest are holding a steady state, separate from the forest that surrounds them. Many foresters who are in third world countries do not have the knowledge nor training to follow by all the guidelines when making a management plan.\nAppropriate public policies and legislation serve to foster sustainable economic and social development in rural and urban areas. These policies work to safeguard the environment and protect flora, fauna and cultural heritage. Traditionally, environmental protection has been an element of forestry through emphasizing forest conservation and accounting for environmental impacts on soil and water. In recent years, outside influences have had a substantial impact on the objectives of forestry and the contents of forest law. In common with other sectors, forestry has been affected by the emergence of environmental awareness and legislation in the last generation. This has brought greater emphasis on the protection of wilderness and aesthetic values.\n\nBiological diversity and climate change have specifically influenced forest law. When forest management plans are created, biological diversity is represented in criteria for sustainability. Due to the Kyoto Protocol, the mitigation of climate change has become an objective of forest law and policy, complementing broader climate policies and programs. However, Rosenbaum and colleagues state that there is little legislation containing specific provisions for mitigating forest-based climate change.\n\nThe connections between forest and other areas of law have become more complex as they have grown in ambition and scope and as other areas directly and indirectly place guidelines on how forests are managed or used. Thus the links between a country's forest laws and its general environmental laws become more important as the environmental dimensions of forest legislation increase in complexity.\n\nForest legislation now recognizes the role of forests as a habitat for wildlife, a resource for grazing and agriculture, and a contributor to water and soil conservation. More recently, the general principles of environmental law and the more specific values of biological diversity have become a very visible part of forest law. The UN Forum on Forests, an intergovernmental policy forum created in 2000, has adopted resolutions on the sustainable development of forests, especially those on Social and Cultural Aspects of Forest and Traditional Forest-Related Knowledge.\n\nForest law is not easily adapted between countries, as there are immense variations in nature, importance, and role of forest resources, as well as legal and institutional settings. While there have been important comparative studies of trends in forest legislation, they seldom provide direct practical guidance on how to assess improve the law.\n\nActual practices differ from one country to the next, however, in all cases public forests are viewed as a national resource, that is, the sovereign property of the state. For example, even though most forest land in the United States and Canada is privately owned, a considerable amount is held by the state as a \"public good\" but systematically leased to private timber producers. In India, the Raj took ownership of virtually all forests, declaring them to be \"wasteland\" and, therefore, unowned. In Indonesia, forests are legally state owned but are treated as private property, while in Brazil, the lack of national government renders forests open access commons. In this role, the conservation of forests is tightly linked to the production of timber and other commodities that generate both capital and jobs, and the economies of large regions are almost wholly dependent on natural resource production from those forests.\nNew forest laws have been adopted in Eastern European countries as part of their transition to a market economy. These laws had considerable effect on the structure of forest land ownership, improvements in management regulations, and modernization of the forest sector's institutional framework. New forest legislation has also been developed in several countries in Western Europe in order to adapt to changing economic conditions, social demands, and more political participation of interest groups and citizens at local and regional levels.\n\nThe evolution of forest legislation in the European Countries indicates that understanding of how natural resources are to be used in a sustainable manner depends on a given economic and social context. The meaning of sustainable forestry is determined by local circumstances and their significance has considerably changed over time. Today sustainable management is understood as forestry practices which respect the naturally given potentials of the ecosystems and maintain the diversity of forests in their typical landscapes. They leave multiple options for an increasing production of wood, protection of the environment, and recreation.\n\nPublic provisions referring to forest uses over more than one generation are among the oldest forms of long-term environmental policies. Customary law, codified in the 14th century, regulated forest uses in accordance with the demands and options of their times. An increasing number of forest and timber ordinances, issued from the 16th century onward, followed. Meeting local needs, long-term availability of raw materials and energy, and increased outputs through better forestry practices were the issues at stake. Legislation established the requirement of a continuous flow of wood production, which meant stopping exploitation of what was available. It recognized the long-term nature of forests, and promoted the involvement of several generations in forestry activities. Increasingly, it provided for planning and management, and for measures of regeneration and reforestation. This introduced principles of utilizing renewable natural resources as a requirement for sustainability as we understand it today.\n\nNew policies place responsibilities for, and powers over, wood fuel management into the hands of economically interested individuals and the Forest Service. The Forest Service maintains complete control of all production and management decisions through required approval and through control of the rules by which production and management can take place.\n\nThe role of private forestry reaches up to over 80 percent of forest production in some countries. However, in many countries, private forestry has never been significant and, even when land has been privatized, the state has often retained the forests. In much of Africa, individual land ownership is relatively limited so that the closest approach to private forestry is usually community forestry (although South Africa and Swaziland, among other countries, have extensive private plantations). More recently, the values of farm forestry and of private capital and management have increased official interest in private forestry.\n\nIllegal forestry activities deprive governments of billions of dollars in tax revenues, as well as cause environmental damage and threaten forests. Forest related corruption and widespread violation of forestry laws undermines the rule of law, discourages legitimate investment, and gives unfair advantages. Money generated from illegal forestry activities has even been used to finance armed conflict. Concern about the extent to which illegal logging has been contributing to forest loss has grown sharply since the 1980s. A very large proportion of the timber entering both national and international markets has been accessed, harvested, transported and traded in contravention of national law in countries such as Bolivia, Brazil, Cambodia, Cameroon, Colombia, Honduras, Indonesia, Nicaragua, Peru, Philippines, and Russia.\n\nThe World Bank (2002) estimates that illegal logging results in an annual loss of around US$10–15 billion in developing countries worldwide. Although it is anticipated that better governance, increased rent capture by the state, and improved forest management can all benefit the poor indirectly, the direct impacts of illegal logging and forest law enforcement on rural livelihoods have not been a priority consideration to date.\n\nThe ways in which people use and value forests are changing. Growing populations, changing culture, technology, and science are increasing the demand for forest resources. In recent years forest laws around the world have been significantly revised in response to these changes. However, the lack of information about who really uses forests presents a major problem to forestry policy makers and supportive development agencies that are mandated to adopt a pro-poor approach. Without clear data it becomes all too easy to overlook the interests of lower income individuals when designing policy interventions aimed at improving forest management or asserting forest law. Some forest laws specifically favor poor rural households and ethnic minorities. Over the last few decades, many governments in Latin America recognized indigenous peoples' rights over large territories, but indigenous people often find it difficult to protect those territories from invasion by loggers, miners, and farmers.\n\nAccording to the World Bank, \"more than 1.6 billion people depend to varying degrees on forests for their livelihoods. About 60 million indigenous people are almost wholly dependent on forests. Some 350 million people who live in or adjacent to dense forests depend on them to a high degree for subsistence and income. In developing countries about 1.2 billion people rely on agroforestry farming systems that help to sustain agricultural productivity and generate income.\"\n\nForest law enforcement initiatives should seek to address the full range of laws that relate to forests and forest-dependent peoples, and not just forestry laws; adopt a rights-based approach to forest law enforcement with due attention paid to strengthening human rights networks, improving the independence of the judiciary, promoting legal literacy among rural communities, and providing legal aid; be linked to governance reform programs aimed at creating public accountability and transparency in the management of natural resources; be developed through processes of broad engagement with civil society organisations and based on national governments’ commitments to reform. \n\nA large portion of forestry legislation focuses on administrative requirements, fees, taxes, and property rights, rather than on how forests are really managed. Of particular importance to forestry is that, even where governments or colonial powers have been willing to recognize individual claims, based on custom or usage, to land used for agriculture or housing, they have generally ignored traditional-group rights to areas used in common, such as forest or pasture. By treating such land as “empty” during the process of settling rights, governments around the world have vested in the state ownership of vast expanses of forest land.\n\nLaw enforcement is the last resort for obtaining compliance with the law. There are at least three approaches to overcoming the difficulties of proving offenses that have taken place in remote locations. One is to focus enforcement on more visible acts, such as transport. Another, common in civil law, is to make the official report of a sworn official admissible as evidence in further proceedings. This effectively shifts the burden of proof to the defendant. A third device is the use of evidentiary presumptions, which similarly shifts the burden of proof to the defendant.\n\nIn many countries the contrast between what forestry law prescribes and what actually happens on the ground is both stark and obvious. Even where the law is strong, illegal behavior by both public and private actors often continues. Some explanations for this are that forest departments lack the financial and human resources to monitor and control forest activities, which often take place in very remote areas; government officials entrusted with enforcing the law may be under immense pressure to condone violations, or engage in violations themselves; court systems are backlogged or bankrupt; the difficulties of daily life for the rural poor may overwhelm any likely risks associated with violating the law; etc.\n\nThese explanations underscore the point that while good forestry legislation is necessary, it is obviously not sufficient. The laws in many countries lie unused or underused for reasons like failure of political will, weak institutions, or even general disregard for the rule of law.\n\nA \"dual approach\" of private as well as public law schemes might possibly become an interesting modern policy mix enhancing enforcement: private law certification schemes might support public regulations (f.i. DDS, \"due diligence systems\", like the EU Timber Regulation).\n\nIn 1992, representatives of 180 of the world's nations met in Rio de Janeiro to consider, among other things, the adoption of an Agreement on Forestry Principles, entitled a \"Non-legally binding authoritative statement of principles for a global consensus on the management, conservation and sustainable development of all types of forests.\"\n\nScientific forestry was based on the precise measurement of the distribution and volume of wood in a given parcel, the systematic felling of trees, and their replacement by standard, carefully aligned rows of mono-cultural plantations that could be harvested at set times.\n\nThe tendencies that become apparent from recent changes in forest laws and regulations in several European countries show a variety of approaches and may be judged from different point of views. Relevant criteria for analysis on the advancement of legislation are consistency, comprehensiveness, subsidiarity, and applicability.\n\nConsistency requires the compatibility of forest regulations with constitutional values and democratic rules, with national policies addressing land-use, economic development and environmental protection, and with international commitments and multilateral agreements. Comprehensiveness refers to the objectives of forest legislation with regard to forest protection and forestry development, to different types of forest tenures, and to the rights and responsibilities of various categories of forest owners. Subsidiarity relates to the role of forests as national, regional and local resources. It also relates to the double nature of forests as private production means that may be used according to the decisions of land owners and as resources that yield numerous benefits to the community. Subsidiarity indicates to what extent public programs support the activities of land owners. Applicability refers in particular to the organisational framework of public forest administrations in relation to changing responsibilities and tasks, and to appropriate forms of participation of forest owners and interest groups in regulating forest uses and management practices. Coordination of competencies among public entities is an important aspect in evaluating the applicability of new or amended regulations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157455", "title": "Mega Man X3", "text": "Mega Man X3\n\nMega Man X3, known as in Japan, is a video game released by Capcom for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES). The game was originally released in Japan on December 1, 1995 and later in North American and PAL regions in 1996. It is the third game in the \"Mega Man X\" series and the last to appear on the SNES. \"Mega Man X3\" takes place in a fictional future in which the world is populated by humans and intelligent robots called \"Reploids\". Like their human creators, some Reploids involve themselves in destructive crime and are labelled as \"Mavericks\". After twice defeating the Maverick leader Sigma, the heroes Mega Man X and Zero must battle a Reploid scientist named Dr. Doppler and his utopia of Maverick followers.\n\n\"Mega Man X3\" follows in the tradition of both the original \"Mega Man\" series and the \"Mega Man X\" series as a standard action-platform game. The player traverses a series of eight stages in any order while gaining various power-ups and taking the special weapon of each stage's end boss. \"Mega Man X3\" is the first game in the series in which Zero is a playable character (albeit in limited form) in addition to X. Like its predecessor, \"Mega Man X2\", \"X3\" features the \"Cx4\" chip to allow for some limited 3D vector graphics and transparency effects.\n\nA 32-bit version of \"Mega Man X3\" was released on the PlayStation, Sega Saturn, and Windows in various countries. The 3DO Interactive Multiplayer version was planned, but was canceled due to the fall of the console. This version was included on the North American \"Mega Man X Collection\" in 2006. The game was also ported to Japanese mobile phones in 2010. Critical reception for \"Mega Man X3\" has been above average. However, the game, particularly the 32-bit version, has received miscellaneous criticism from reviewers for its lack of improvements to the series.\n\nCapcom announced that the SNES version of \"Mega Man X3\" would be coming to the Wii U Virtual Console in 2014. It was released in North America on August 28, 2014, Japan on October 8, 2014 and the PAL regions on November 6, 2014.\n\nRecently, the SNES version was released on the PC, as well as the PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch as part of \"Mega Man X Legacy Collection\" (\"Rockman X Anniversary Collection\" in Japan) which released on July 24, 2018 worldwide and July 26, 2018 in Japan.\n\nThe story of \"Mega Man X3\" is set during the 22nd century (the year \"21XX\"), in which after Mega Man X2 humans coexist with intelligent robots called \"Reploids\" (replicant androids). Due to their free will, some Reploids are prone to criminal activity and are said to go \"Maverick\". Dr. Cain, the inventor of the Reploids, establishes a military taskforce called the \"Maverick Hunters\" to prevent it. Even after two successful efforts by the Hunters Mega Man X and Zero to stop a Maverick leader named Sigma from attempting to exterminate the human race, Maverick activity seems to continue. However, the threat of the Mavericks is later neutralized thanks to the technology of the Reploid scientist Dr. Doppler, which prevents the Mavericks from going berserk. The reformed Reploids form a utopia near their new mentor called \"Dopple Town\". It seemed that all is well until the former Reploids suddenly revert and once again begin causing trouble, even going so far as to attack Hunter headquarters. Doppler is held accountable, and X and Zero are sent out to contain the new threat.\n\nOnce the two heroes defeat Doppler and the forces that have sworn allegiance to him, the scientist comes to his senses and realizes all the damage that he has done. He explains that Sigma is alive as a computer virus, and that Doppler was corrupted in order to create a new body for Sigma. X seeks out Sigma, and after an intense battle, the Sigma Virus in its pure form chases X in an attempt to infect and possess him. Once X finds himself at a dead end, one of two things may happen. In one of the game's endings, Zero takes Doppler's true antivirus software and uploads it onto his sabre offscreen. He rushes in to save X just in time and causes Sigma to explode, destroying the lab as they evacuate. However, if Zero is injured during the game, Doppler instead uses his own body as the antivirus and sacrifices himself for the greater good.\n\n\"Mega Man X3\" adopts the gameplay of \"Mega Man X\" and \"Mega Man X2\", an expansion of the gameplay model of the original \"Mega Man\" series. These action-platform games involve taking control of the protagonist X and completing a series of eight, selectable stages. Each stage has a variety of obstacles, traps, and enemy robots to fight. The stage terminates in a Maverick boss fight; defeating this boss will add a new special weapon to the player's arsenal. Each boss is particularly weak to one special weapon, so the player may complete the stages in an order that best exploits these weaknesses. The player character X retains certain abilities from past games. Namely, he is able to run, jump, dash, cling to and scale most walls, and fire his chargeable \"X-Buster\" arm cannon and special weapons. The player can further upgrade X's abilities by collecting armor parts (head, body, legs, and X-Buster) found within capsules in some levels. Capsules containing special chips add new abilities as well. X is generally only able to benefit from one chip at a time, allowing the player to customize the character as needed. However, one hidden capsule gives X the benefits of all four special chips.\n\nLike the two previous \"Mega Man X\" games, the player can locate power-ups such as \"Heart Tanks\" for extending the maximum life energy and \"Sub-Tanks\" for storing energy for later use. Also returning are powerful \"Ride Armor\" vehicles that can be piloted in some of the stages. Items hidden within certain levels can be collected which allow the player to summon vehicles at any time. \"Mega Man X3\" is the first game in the series which allows the player to play as X's ally Zero, although his playability is more limited compared to later games in the series. Zero can be called to take X's place during nearly any stage, but he cannot collect any of X's armor parts or power-ups, and cannot fight mid-stage or end-stage bosses, with only one exception that grants access to a secret weapon for X. If Zero is ever defeated in battle, he will be unable to be called upon for the rest of the game.\n\nBy the time production began, Keiji Inafune, a major contributor to the \"Mega Man\" franchise, had transitioned from his role as an artist to director, producer, and writer. Starting with \"Mega Man X2\", Inafune wanted to use a computer virus as a plot device, something he considered a more interesting idea than a tangible villain. Inafune's other duties included merchandising the game into toys and trading cards. Although the game's scenario, character designs and artwork were done at Capcom, much of the actual game design was sub-contracted to Minakuchi Engineering, who had previously developed most of the \"Mega Man\" games on the Game Boy along with the compilation game \"\" for the Sega Mega Drive. Inafune recalled experiencing \"psychological turmoil\" over allowing \"outsiders\" to handle the game's development. Inafune's only illustrative designs for the game were the characters X, Zero, and Vile. Inafune admitted being very \"possessive\" of Zero, which he had vested interest in since the character's creation for the first \"Mega Man X\". All of the designs for the game's other characters, bosses, and its minor enemies were divided among artists Hayato Kaji, Tatsuya Yoshikawa, Shinsuke Komaki, and Kazushi Itou.\n\n\"Mega Man X3\" is graphically similar to its two predecessors, and even utilizes the SNES Cx4 from \"Mega Man X2\". This digital signal processor cartridge chip allows for basic 3D graphical effects such as rotation, enlarging, and shrinking of wireframe objects. The North American and the European SNES version of \"Mega Man X3\" are very rare due to their limited run and the fact that they were released during declining support of the console. Despite higher-than-expected retail orders for their SNES products, Capcom had lowered its shipping of 16-bit titles during the fall 1995 release quarter due to supply and demand. To give the game a chance of turning a profit in spite of its limited production run, Capcom had to price it higher than any previous Mega Man title ($73.95 at retail in the USA). In more recent times, \"Mega Man X3\" cartridges fetch very large sums of money on collector and auction websites such as eBay. A port of \"Mega Man X3\" was released on the Sega Saturn and PlayStation in Japan in 1996 and in Europe in 1997. Capcom stated that it was licensing these versions to a USA company for release in North America, but ultimately they were never released in the region. A Windows port of this 32-bit edition was released in Japan in 1997 and in North America and Europe in 1998 . The port versions feature additional animated full-motion video cutscenes, rearranged remixed music tracks, and completely different sound effects than the original SNES version. A port for the 3DO Interactive Multiplayer was announced in Japan in 1996, but was not released. The Japanese PlayStation version of \"Mega Man X3\" was eventually re-released as part of the Sony \"The Best for Family\" line of budget titles. The PlayStation version of \"Mega Man X3\" was included in \"Mega Man X Collection\", released for the PlayStation 2 and Nintendo GameCube in North America in early 2006. Finally, \"Mega Man X3\" was released on EZweb-compatible mobile phones in Japan in 2010.\n\nThe game's soundtrack was composed by freelancer Kinuyo Yamashita, who created all the music and converted it to data in her leisure. Although the Minakuchi Engineering Staff is credited in the game's soundtrack album, Yamashita worked for them in a freelance capacity rather than being an actual employee of the company. The Japanese 32-bit editions feature two J-pop vocal songs by Kotono Shibuya: the opening theme \"One More Time\" and the ending theme \"I'm Believer\". Both the SNES and 32-bit versions of the musical score were included on the second disc of \"Capcom Music Generation: Rockman X1 ~ X6\" soundtrack released by Suleputer in 2003.\n\nPress reception for \"Mega Man X3\" was mostly positive. Reviewers praised the game's tried-and-true gameplay, graphics, control, and the option to play as Zero. Mike Weigand of \"GamePro\" was generally pleased with the game, and, though he admitted it brought little new to the franchise, enjoyed the increased difficulty, tight controls, and new special effects. Weigand summarized, \"It may be routine for experience players, but anyone who hasn't played a 16-bit game in the series will discover Mega magic.\" \"GameFan\" reviewer Dave Halverson was equally impressed by the \"speed, diversity, special FX, and power up's,\" calling it \"a fitting 16-bit finale to a great series\". IGN similarly asserted \"Mega Man X3\" as \"a solid send-off for the 16-bit era\", naming it the 67th-best SNES of all time on a 2011 list. Two of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\"s reviewers considered the game an improvement over X2 with its larger levels and huge number of secrets, while the other two focused on its overt similarity to previous games in the series.\n\nSome felt \"Mega Man X3\" was too similar to past \"Mega Man\" games. \"Super Play\" writer Jonathan Davies found the game far too similar to \"Mega Man X2\", questioning whether or not \"Capcom are cashing in on their loyal fans\". All but one of the four reviewers for \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" complained that the game is too similar to other \"Mega Man\" games, with one writing: \"I am so sick of Mega Man, that I have dreams at night of the blue-clothed hero showing up at my house and forcing me to play more of his redundant titles. This latest release is just like all the rest.\" Likewise, 1UP.com writer Jeremy Parish thought that the game differed little from past releases, complaining that it was \"more of the same, but with a kitchen-sink design philosophy that made every single level feel like a sluggish, ill-designed mess.\" GameSpot editors Christian Nutt and Justin Speer specifically felt the number of power-ups and bonuses overshadowed the gameplay, barely benefiting from the addition of Zero as a limited playable character.\n\nThe port versions of the game suffered more negative criticism than their SNES counterpart. The level designs and overall gameplay were highly criticized by \"Computer Games Magazine\" contributor Nathan Smith, who reviewed the late Windows release of the game. \"Packing more \"cliché\" console conventions than you can shake a gamepad at,\" Smith opined, \"you'll need the patience of Job, the manual dexterity of a nine-year-old, and the intelligence of Forrest Gump to really enjoy this one.\" \"Saturn Power\" denoted \"Mega Man X3\" the worst Saturn title in the console's available game library. Matt Yeo of \"Sega Saturn Magazine\" had fair comments about \"Mega Man X3\" as an SNES game, but labeled the UK Saturn version \"a bit of a travesty\" due to its lack of innovation and a \"dubious\" quality of the anime cutscenes. Halverson enjoyed the use of redbook audio in the 32-bit conversion despite not finding the music particularly memorable. Both Yeo and Halverson were dismayed by the use of letterbox borders in the Saturn version, which horizontally reduce the screen size.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157462", "title": "St Fergus", "text": "St Fergus\n\nSt Fergus is a village in the Buchan area of Aberdeenshire, Scotland. St Fergus lies a mile from the North Sea coast and three miles north-west of Peterhead. The Parish of St Fergus includes the remains of Inverugie Castle and Ravenscraig Castle. The church in the village was built in 1763. The church for this parish previously stood in the old kirkyard near the shore two miles to the east. This site on the St Fergus Links is still used as a burial ground. Prior to the change in site of the church the parish was known as Longley and at a still more remote period Inverugie.\n\nHistorically, the 9000 acres of St Fergus parish formed a detached portion of Banffshire. The parish was transferred to Aberdeenshire in 1891. At that time it had a population of 1527.\n\nThe beach area was classed as a risk during WW2 as a possible landing area for a German invasion. Several pillboxes and anti-tank blocks were placed along the coast. These formed part of the Rattray stop line. Anti-tank ditches are still visible today. A minefield was laid on St Fergus links and Craigwan sands. On 30 November 1941, 11-year-old John Paul, 12-year-old James Reekie and Corporal Ronald Cumbley of the Royal Engineers were killed by a landmine. Two other soldiers were also injured. On 26 March 1946, Lance Corporal Reginald Wallis, age 26, and Corporal John Wood, age 23, of 11 Bomb Disposal company were killed whilst clearing landmines from the area. Corporal Wood stepped on the mine detonating it.\n\nDuring mine clearing operations by 11th Company Bomb Disposal, a British Empire Medal was awarded to Sgt Robert Husband. Sgt Husband assisted a platoon officer dealing with mines that had fallen down a cliff when rough weather caused a bank of sand to collapse.\n\nThe St Fergus Gas Terminal situated to the north of the village, began operating in 1977 and was officially opened on 9 May 1978. The terminal consists of plants operated by a number of different oil and gas companies, and processes up to 60 million cubic metres of North Sea gas per day, amounting to 15% of the United Kingdom gas demand.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157464", "title": "Shepherd Sisters", "text": "Shepherd Sisters\n\nThe Shepherd Sisters (also known as The Sheps) were an American vocal quartet of four sisters born and raised in Middletown, Ohio, United States: Martha (born Martha Jane Shepherd, April 22, 1932 – February 24, 1998), Gayle (born Joyce Gayle Shepherd, May 31, 1936 – May 7, 2018), Mary Lou (born May 19, 1934), and Judith (November 20, 1939 – July 10, 2009) Shepherd.\n\nThe sisters were born into a family of eight children, six sisters and two brothers, with Judith being the youngest. In the late 1950s, they appeared on \"Arthur Godfrey's Talent Scouts\". One of their first recordings, \"Gone with the Wind\" got them a call from Dick Clark. Subsequently, they made many appearances on Dick Clark's \"American Bandstand\".\n\nIn New York City, Morty Craft had a song he wanted them to record, \"Alone (Why Must I Be Alone)\". In 1957, \"Alone\" would become their biggest hit and their signature song. In the U.S. it reached No. 18 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart; in the UK Singles Chart it made No. 14. Its chart progress may have been hindered by several rival cover versions on both sides of the Atlantic. In all the Shepherd Sisters recorded over thirty songs, many of them on one of Morty Craft's record labels such as Melba and Lance.\n\nCraft also introduced them to the DJ Alan Freed, the man often credited with coining the term \"rock and roll.\" The Shepherd Sisters played the Brooklyn and Manhattan Paramount Theaters and toured with Alan Freed's 'America's Greatest Teenage Recording Stars', along with The Everly Brothers, Paul Anka, Buddy Holly and the Crickets, Frankie Lymon and the Teenagers, Jerry Lee Lewis, Fats Domino, Danny and the Juniors, Lee Andrews and the Hearts, The Twin Tones, Little Joe Dubs, Thurston Harris, Terry Nolan, and Jo Ann Campbell.\n\nBesides rock and roll the Shepherd Sisters were also a stage and cabaret act. They performed at hotels, nightclubs, New York's Apollo Theater, and casinos in Reno and Las Vegas, Nevada. They also sang in the Philippines, Canada, South America, and parts of Europe.\n\nMartha died on February 24, 1998, at the age of 65. Judith died on July 10, 2009, at the age of 69. Gayle died of dementia on May 7, 2018, at the age of 81. As of 2018, Mary Lou Shepherd is the only surviving member of the quartet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157480", "title": "John Weever", "text": "John Weever\n\nJohn Weever (1576–1632) was an English antiquary and poet. He is best known for his \"Epigrammes in the Oldest Cut, and Newest Fashion\" (1599), containing epigrams on Shakespeare, Ben Jonson, and other poets of his day, and for his \"Ancient Funerall Monuments\", the first full-length book to be dedicated to the topic of English church monuments and epitaphs, which was published in 1631, the year before his death.\n\nWeever was a native of Preston, Lancashire. Little is known of his early life, and his parentage is not certain. He may be the son of the John Weever who in 1590 was one of thirteen followers of local landowner Thomas Langton put on trial for murder after a riot which took place at Lea Hall, Lancashire.\n\nHe was educated at Queens' College, Cambridge, where he was admitted as a sizar on 30 April 1594. Weever's first tutor at Cambridge was William Covell, himself a native of Lancashire and author of \"Polimanteia\" (1595) which contains one of the first printed notices of Shakespeare. Another of Weever's tutors was Robert Pearson, whom in later life he mentions with gratitude as a \"reverend, learned divine\". It is possible that Weever considered a career in the church himself but after receiving his degree on 16 April 1598 he appears to have left Cambridge and travelled to London, where he immersed himself in the literary scene.\n\nHe was in York in 1603 and later apparently in Lancashire. However, he eventually settled in London and married, buying a house in the parish of St. James, Clerkenwell.\n\nIn late 1599 Weever published \"Epigrammes in the Oldest Cut, and Newest Fashion\", containing epigrams on Shakespeare, Samuel Daniel, Michael Drayton, Ben Jonson, Edmund Spenser, William Warner and Christopher Middleton, all of which are valuable to the literary historian. The epigram on Shakespeare is particularly interesting since it follows the typical Shakespearean sonnet form: this may indicate Weever had seen actual examples of Shakespeare's sonnets, which at that date circulated only in manuscript. Many other epigrams however relate to persons Weever knew at Cambridge and presumably were composed while he was still a student there. The book also has commendatory verses by some of Weever's Cambridge friends.\n\nIn 1600 he published \"Faunus and Melliflora\", which begins as an erotic poem in the style of Shakespeare's \"Venus and Adonis\" and after a thousand lines in this vein abruptly veers toward satire, with a description of the mythological origins of the form and translations of satires by classical authors. It concludes with references to contemporary satirists Joseph Hall and John Marston, and also to the Bishops' Ban of 1599, which ordered the calling in and destruction of satirical works by Thomas Nashe and others.\n\nIn 1601 an anonymous pamphlet called \"The Whippinge of the Satyre\" was published, which attacks three figures referred to as the Epigrammatist, the Satirist and the Humorist. These three are taken to refer to the contemporary writers Everard Guilpin, author of \"Skialetheia. or, A shadowe of Truth\" (1598), his kinsman John Marston, and Ben Jonson. It has been convincingly argued that Weever was the author of this pamphlet, and that as a result he was attacked in his turn and lampooned onstage as the character Asinius Bubo in Thomas Dekker's \"Satiromastix\", as Simplicius Faber in Marston's \"What You Will\" and as Shift in Jonson's \"Every Man Out of His Humour\". All these three characters are represented as being very small in stature and great lovers of tobacco, two characteristics which Weever himself admits to in his later works.\n\nIn 1601 Weever also published two more serious works of a religious tone, \"The Mirror of Martyrs\" and \"An Agnus Dei\". \"The Mirror of Martyrs or The Life and Death of ... Sir John Oldcastle\" may have been part of a backlash. In his preface Weever calls it the \"first trew Oldcastle\", perhaps on account of the fact that Shakespeare's character Falstaff first appeared as \"Sir John Oldcastle\". Weever's work is influenced by John Bale's 1544 biography of Oldcastle, which presents him as a proto-Protestant martyr. In the fourth stanza of this long poem, in which Sir John is his own panegyrist, occurs a reminiscence of Shakespeare's \"Julius Caesar\" which serves to fix the date of the play. Weever's other work of this year, \"An Agnus Dei\", is the life of Christ told in verse form. It has little literary merit but went through several editions, perhaps because it was produced as a tiny book less than two inches square.\n\n\"The Mirror of Martyrs\" was reprinted in 1872 for the Roxburghe Club.\n\nAs early as his first publication in 1599 Weever had demonstrated an interest in tomb monuments. Developing this, he spent the first three decades of the seventeenth century collecting monumental inscriptions. He travelled throughout England and to parts of Scotland, France, the Low Countries and Italy. Back in England he made friends among the chief antiquaries of his time, including Sir Robert Cotton and the herald Augustine Vincent. The result of his endeavours appeared as \"Ancient Funerall Monuments\", a folio volume published in 1631.\n\nThe work included a lengthy introductory global overview of his subject, the \"Discourse of Funerall Monuments\"; and this was followed by a survey of over a thousand inscriptions in the four south-eastern dioceses of England: Canterbury, Rochester, London and Norwich. The book is particularly valuable on account of the subsequent loss of many of these inscriptions. However, Weever viewed the inscriptions primarily as literary survivals, and (unlike some of his contemporaries) took little interest in the genealogical evidence they provided, or in the heraldic elements of many monuments: Graham Parry comments, \"[i]t is fair to say that he ignored half the value of a memorial.\" Nor was he concerned with their sculptural or architectural features, and he made no drawings on his travels. The published volume contains just eighteen illustrative woodcuts, all of which appear to have been added only at the production stage, and to have been based on drawings supplied by antiquarian friends.\n\nThe Society of Antiquaries holds two notebooks in Weever's own hand (MSS 127 and 128) which contain a partial early draft of \"Ancient Funerall Monuments\", as well as other material not included in the published volume.\n\nWeever died between mid-February and late March 1632, and was buried at St James, Clerkenwell. He was commemorated by a marble tablet framed with a black border, and inscribed with a lengthy encomium in verse (afterwards published in the 1633 edition of John Stow's \"Survey of London\"). The monument was lost when the church was demolished for rebuilding in 1788, despite some ineffectual efforts by the Society of Antiquaries to preserve it.\n\nThe engraved frontispiece to \"Ancient Funerall Monuments\" includes a portrait of Weever, giving his age as 55; and also the following self-penned doggerel summary of his life:\n<poem>Lanchashire gave him breath,\nAnd Cambridge education.\nHis studies are of Death.\nOf Heaven his meditation.</poem>\n\nWeever's wife's first name was Anne, but it is unclear from the surviving records whether she was Anne Edwards, who married a man named John Weaver in St James Church, Clerkenwell, in 1614; Anne Panting, who married a John Weaver in the same church in 1617; or neither of these. She may have been the Anne Weaver of Clerkenwell who drew up her will in 1647, and whose maiden name may have been Onion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157486", "title": "Hultsfred Festival", "text": "Hultsfred Festival\n\nThe Hultsfred Festival () is an annual music festival held in Hultsfred, Sweden. It takes place at the lake Hulingen during three days in the June or July, from Thursday to Saturday. Since the first festival in 1986, its attendance has increased from 7,500 visitors to approximately 32,000 people in 2005. With its five different stages, the Hultsfred Festival hosts many bands each year (154 in 2007) from all over Scandinavia and the world alike.\n\nDue to an increase of ticket pricing and what the public recognized as a poor lineup in 2007, festival attendance has been declining in recent years. The festival went bankrupt in 2010 and the whole event was cancelled that year, but it was resurrected already by 2011.\n\nFKP Scorpio, festival organizer since 2011, announced on 20 March 2013 that they will move the festival to Stockholm, \"Hultsfred goes Stockholm\". On 14 April 2013 a new festival association, under the name \"This Is Hultsfred\", announced their intention to organize a festival in Hultsfred 2013 on the traditional site. Scorpio also hosts the Bråvalla festival.\n\nFKP Scorpio stages 13–15 June 2013 a festival in Sigtuna Municipality, north of Stockholm.\n\nThis is Hultsfred are working to keep the festival in Hultsfred, planned to 14–15 June 2013.\n\nAt the 1999 festival, a 19-year-old woman died of suffocation during a concert with Hole.\n\nIn 2006, the festival booked Babyshambles, the band fronted by Pete Doherty. Because of Doherty's widely reported drug addiction, the arrangers of the festival were criticized even before the festival had begun, as the festival profiles itself as being anti-drugs. The arrangers defended the booking by saying that the band was booked for its music and not its members' personal lives. After being delayed for more than an hour, the concert took place with Doherty attacking photographers, throwing a guitar at the audience and finally falling off stage in a failed attempt at stage diving. Immediately after the concert Doherty was arrested by the Hultsfred police and fined for drug possession.\n\nOn 30 June 2010, Rockparty reported that due to bad ticket sales, Hultsfredsfestivalen AB would file for bankruptcy, and that the 25th annual Hultsfred festival would not be held. The festival made a comeback the next year, thanks to FPK Scorpio.\n\n2013\nConfirmed as of 31 January. Arctic Monkeys - Portishead - Fatboy Slim - Band of Horses - Phoenix - The Flaming Lips - Imagine Dragons - Mew - SBTRKT - John Talabot - Modest Mouse - Adrian Lux - Lorentz & Sakarias\n\n2012\nThe Cure - The Stone Roses - The XX - Slash - Eagles Of Death Metal - Chase & Status - The Cardigans - Gorillaz Sound System - Justice - Mumford & Sons (cancelled) - Kasabian - Marina and the Diamonds - Garbage - James Blake - The Kooks - M83 - Noah and the Whale - Frank Turner - Future Islands - Stay+ - Ewert and The Two Dragons - Ikonika - Fink\n\n2011\nMorrissey - The Prodigy - Crystal Castles - Primal Scream - Beach House - Suede - MF Doom - OFWGKTA - Foster The People - White Lies - Les Savy Fav - Erasure - Duck Sauce - Raised Fist - Bootsy Collins - Nashville Pussy - Washed Out\n\n2010 (cancelled)\nScissor Sisters - NAS & Damian Marley - Deftones - Erykah Badu - Empire of the Sun - Kent - The Hives - Thirty Seconds to Mars - Killswitch Engage - The Ting Tings - We Are Scientists\n\n2009\nMadness - The Killers - Regina Spektor - Lenka - Lars Winnerbäck (x4) - Maia Hirasawa - Timbuktu - Takida - Anna Ternheim - Kings of Leon - Franz Ferdinand - Dropkick Murphys - Ice Cube - Ludacris - Lisa Bouvier\n\n2008\nRage Against the Machine - Serj Tankian - Babyshambles - Blood Red Shoes - Håkan Hellström - The Hives - Danko Jones - Robyn - HIM -The Donnas - Mustasch - Paramore - The Haunted - Linkin Park (cancelled) - Dead by April\n\n2007\nOzzy Osbourne - Korn - 50 Cent - Pet Shop Boys - Velvet Revolver - Black Label Society - Turbonegro - The Ark - Manic Street Preachers - Wolfmother - Evanescence - Amy Winehouse - Sahara Hotnights - Mohair\n\n2006\nThe Strokes - Kent - Lou Reed - Deftones - Pharrell - The Cardigans - In Flames - Gnarls Barkley - Soundtrack of our Lives - The Sounds - Alice in Chains - Blindside - Backyard Babies - Korn\n\n2005\nMarilyn Manson - Snoop Dogg - System of a Down - Nine Inch Nails - Slipknot - Slayer - The Hives - The Mars Volta - Millencolin - Tori Amos - The Hellacopters - Turbonegro\n\n2004\nMorrissey - Alicia Keys - Mary J. Blige - Kris Kristofferson - Hatebreed - 3 Doors Down - Pixies - PJ Harvey - Soulfly - The Dillinger Escape Plan - Scissor Sisters - Weeping Willows - Danko Jones - Four Tet\n\n2003\nRadiohead - Audioslave - Queens of the Stone Age - Massive Attack - Stereophonics - The Dandy Warhols - The Streets - Ladytron - Counting Crows - Badly Drawn Boy - The Datsuns - Strapping Young Lad - Linkin Park (cancelled In Flames acted instead)\n\n2002\nSuede - Rammstein - Caesars Palace - New Order- Chemical Brothers - Slayer - Sonic Youth - Black Rebel Motorcycle Club - Bob Hund - Agnostic Front - Arch Enemy - Starsailor - Ed Hacourt\n\n2001\nIggy Pop - Manic Street Preachers - Weezer - TOOL - Faithless - Limp Bizkit - Jello Biafra - The Hives - The Nomads (20th anniversary) - Godsmack - Håkan Hellström - Outkast (cancelled) - Queens of the Stone Age\n\n2000\nOasis - Rage Against the Machine - Caesars Palace - Primal Scream - Thåström - Mikael Wiehe - Suicidal Tendencies - Kelis - Deftones - Lars Winnerbäck - Asian Dub Foundation - Muse - Travis (cancelled)\n\n1999\nHole - Suede - Marilyn Manson - Joe Strummer - Monster Magnet - Goo Goo Dolls - Fu Manchu - Bloodhound Gang - HammerFall - Manic Street Prachers - Meshuggah - Orgy (cancelled)\n\n1998\nBlack Sabbath - garbage - Eagle Eye Cherry - Bob Hund - Wilmer X - Rancid - Kent - NOFX - Turbonegro - The Soundtrack of our Lives\n\n1997\nThe Prodigy - Suede - Rage Against the Machine - Wu-Tang Clan - Daft Punk - Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds - Stereophonics- The Cardigans - Placebo - The Hellacopters - Millencolin - Marilyn Manson (cancelled) - Supergrass\n\n1996\nBlur - Björk - Ministry - The Cure - Iggy Pop - Pulp - Bad Religion - The Prodigy - Bruce Dickinson - Fear Factory - Emmylou Harris - Frank Black - Skunk Anansie (cancelled)\n\n1995\nPantera - Slayer - Nationalteatern - Chemical Brothers - Supergrass - the Cardigans - Kent - Millencolin - Beastie Boys (cancelled) - Chris Isaak (cancelled)\n\n1994\nMotörhead - Oasis - Blur - Midnight Oil - Die Totenhosen - The Prodigy - Primal Scream - The Verve - Refused - Meshuggah - Bob Hund\n\n1993\nThe Ramones - Iggy Pop - Rollins Band - Stero MC's - Manic Street Preachers - Sick of it All - Ulf Lundell - Wilmer X - Bob Hund\n\n1992\nGary Moore - The Pretenders - Primal Scream - Blur - The Creeps - Candlemass - Meshuggah - The Ramones (cancelled)\n\n1991\nThe Black Crowes - Thåström - Sven Ingvars - Status Quo (cancelled) - PJ Harvey (cancelled) - Stereo MC's (cancelled) - Fisherman\n\n1990\nJoan Jett and the Blackhearts - Nick Lowe - Jungle Brothers - Buzzcocks - Wilmer X - Soul Asylum - The Charlatans - Sator - The Sinners\n\n1989\nVan Morrison - Motörhead - Disneyland After Dark (Now D-A-D) - Katrina and the Waves - Chris Bailey - Jacob Hellman - Candlemass\n\n1988\nJoe Strummer and the Latino Rocakabilly War - Eldkvarn - Tone Norum - Stonefunkers - Big Country\n\n1987\nPublic Image Ltd - Screamin Jay Hawkins - Dr. Feelgood - Latin Quarter - The Jesus and Mary Chain\n\n1986\nNils Lofgren - New Model Army - Erasure - Reeperbahn - The Triffids\n\n"}
{"id": "2157501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157501", "title": "German Fest", "text": "German Fest\n\nGerman Fest is an ethnic festival in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, at the Henry Maier Festival Park, on the Lake Michigan lakefront. The genesis of German Fest occurred when Mayor Henry Maier challenged the local German-American community during a speech on May 20, 1980, at the 20th Anniversary of the German American National Congress (DANK) to organize a German festival. Shortly thereafter, Walter Geissler, then President of D.A.N.K., chaired a committee of five members that laid the foundation for the Fest. The charter of German Fest was subsequently written in January 1981. The first German Fest was held in August 1981. It is billed as the \"Largest German celebration in North America\" and \"A Milwaukee Tradition\". It currently occurs during the last full weekend in July. As of 1993, Milwaukee had a 52% German population, which is the largest European percentage in a major U.S. metropolitan area.\n\nGerman Fest celebrates the culture, food, travel, and history of Germany, as well as Switzerland, Austria, Liechtenstein, South Tyrol, and German-speaking communities around the world. Along with traditional music, many from the Europe also make the journey to perform and educate at the festival.\n\nOne attraction is the cultural tent, where one can see the various groups, including both former and current provinces that proudly call themselves \"German.\" They range from Bavarians (Bayern), and Hessians (Hessen), to other German speaking nations like the Austrians (Österreich), and groups displaced by World War II whose homelands are now located in Poland (Polen), Hungary (Ungarn), and the former Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia (Tschechoslowakei & Jugoslawien).\n\nIn the center area of the grounds a parade periodically passes by, showcasing 38 German-American heritage organizations, local German immersion schools, and others celebrating their German heritage.\n\nGerman cuisine is also featured at German Fest. Many well-known German restaurants and food services in the area are present at the fest, including Mader’s, and the Schwabenhof, as well as the biggest sausage maker in Milwaukee, Usinger's. Usinger's celebrated its 125th anniversary in 2005, in a joint anniversary of German Fest’s 25th anniversary.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157529", "title": "Murder (2004 film)", "text": "Murder (2004 film)\n\nMurder is a 2004 Indian Hindi erotic romantic thriller film, directed by Anurag Basu and produced by Mukesh Bhatt. It is the first installment in the \"Murder film series\". It stars Emraan Hashmi, Ashmit Patel and Mallika Sherawat in the lead roles and is set in Bangkok, Thailand. This film is based on the 2002 American film \"Unfaithful\", which itself was also inspired by a French film \"The Unfaithful Wife\" (1969).\n\n\"Murder\" released on 2 April 2004 and, despite receiving mixed reviews from critics, managed to become a highly successful venture at the box office, earning a \"super hit\" status from Box Office India. The film was a huge breakthrough for its lead actors, particularly Patel, Hashmi and Sherawat. It received an A certificate from the Indian Censor Board for its erotic subject and scenes. The film was remade in Kannada as \"Ganda Hendathi\" (2006).\n\nIt had a cult following fan base upon release, and began a film series which continued with \"Murder 2\" in 2011 and \"Murder 3\" in 2013.\n\nSimran Sehgal (Mallika Sherawat) is a young woman married to Sudhir (Ashmit Patel), a workaholic, who was previously married to Simran's now deceased sister, Sonia. Simran only married Sudhir in order to give motherly love to Sudhir and Sonia's son. She leads an unhappy, lonely and passionless married life. After accidentally meeting her former college lover, Sunny (Emraan Hashmi), she decides to engage in an affair with him. The affair starts to consume her life and Simran finds herself constantly lying to her husband and neglecting her motherly duties. After some time, she decides to end the relationship, but to her surprise, she finds that Sunny has also been simultaneously seeing another woman named Radhika. She regrets her unfaithful act and tries to cut all ties with Sunny.\n\nMeanwhile, Sudhir has started to have doubts about his wife, and hires a detective to trace Simran's whereabouts. The detective is able to provide Sudhir with pictures of Sunny and Simran having sex and sleeping together tells him that Sunny is a serial womanizer, and had find with many girlfriends. \n\nThe next day, Sunny suddenly goes missing. The police come to Sudhir and Simran's house and inquire about him, on a report registered by his girlfriend Radhika. Simran comes across the photographs of her and Sunny amongst Sudhir's things, and realizes that he may have something to do with Sunny's disappearance. \nSudhir reveals that he went to Sunny's apartment to confront him about the affair, and the two men began to argue. The situation escalated, and Sudhir fatally beat Sunny and buried him in a panic. Realising her fault and role in the situation, Simran supports Sudhir and takes the blame for killing Sunny. This develops and strengthens their love and faith in each other. Simran is arrested by the police and pleads guilty, while at the same time, Sudhir claims that it is he who killed Sunny. This confuses the police. Moreover, the body is missing from the burial spot.\n\nIn a sudden change of events, Sunny is shown to be alive. It is revealed that the entire situation, from initiating the affair to goading Sudhir into a fight was planned in advance by Sunny, with the help of Radhika. Sunny hoped to have Sudhir imprisoned so that he could continue his affair with Simran.\nSunny isolates Simran and chases her into a jungle, where Sudhir arrives and the two begin to fight. Sudhir manages to beat him, and Sunny leaves as he sees the couple together, seemingly realizing their love for each other. However, Sunny then runs up behind Sudhir with a shovel but is then shot in the back by a police officer, who arrives just in time. Finally safe, Sudhir and Simran reunite and take care of their son in Future.\n\n\n\"Murder\" received mixed reviews from film critics in India. Taran Adarsh of \"Bollywood Hungama\" rated it 3 out of 5 and called it an \"engrossing entertainer\". Anupama Chopra in her review for \"India Today\" called Sherawat \"the hero of the film\" but criticized the screenplay. At the box office, it opened well and grossed over 247.5 million. The film was elevated to \"super hit\" verdict by \"Box Office India\" after its second weekend. It was also the ninth highest-grossing film of the year 2004.\n\nThe music was composed by Anu Malik. Lyrics were penned by Sayeed Quadri and Rahat Indori. According to the Indian trade website Box Office India, with around 22,00,000 units sold, this film's soundtrack album was the year's fourth highest-selling. The song 'Jana Tere Pyaar' is not portrayed in the film.\n\nThe song \"Jaana Tere Pyaar\" is a reported copy of the Bengali song \"Firiye Dao\" by Miles, a pop band from Bangladesh. Miles later sued the filmmakers, which resulted in the song being removed from the film's original soundtrack. The Bangladeshi band also sought compensation for 'hurting its business interests'. However, due to challenges in terms of uncertainty about the outcome, lack of information and lack of initiative from the relevant authorities on either side, compensation has not () been yet awarded.\n\nAlthough the filmmakers denied all the accusations and said that they have bought the copyrights of the songs 'Kaho Na Kaho' and 'Jana Tere Pyaar' from Pakistani singer Amir Jamal whose album titled 'Kaho Na Kaho - A Fusion of Arabic and Urdu' was released in 2002, Amir Jamal took permission from Egyptian singer Amr Diab, to use his Arabic song Tamally Maak's a portion of lyrics to be reused in the Kaho Na Kaho song.\n\nThe film was remade into Kannada as \"Ganda Hendathi\" in 2006.\n\nA sequel titled \"Murder 2\" was released on 8 July 2011 with Emraan Hashmi and Jacqueline Fernandez in the lead roles, which was loosely based on \nthe 2008 Korean film \"The Chaser\" (film). Commercially, the sequel surpassed the collections of \"Murder\", becoming a blockbuster. After the success of the first two instalments, the producers released a third instalment, \"Murder 3\", on 15 February 2013. The film, which was an official remake of Spanish film \"The Hidden Face\", starred Randeep Hooda, Aditi Rao Hydari and Sara Loren in the lead roles. However, unlike the earlier parts, it only performed moderately well at the box office. A fourth film is in development with Hashmi returning, after not appearing in the third film.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157544", "title": "Air Transport International", "text": "Air Transport International\n\nAir Transport International, Inc. is an airline based in Wilmington, Ohio, USA. It operates worldwide cargo charters and combi charters for the express package industry and freight forwarders, as well as for the United States Department of Defense. It also wet-leases aircraft. Its main base is Wilmington, Ohio. It is part of the Air Transport Services Group ().\n\nIn March 2016, Amazon.com announced that it would be using ATI to provide transport services for the Amazon Prime network. The deal under ATI's parent company will result in an increase in aircraft, frequencies, and jobs for the airline.\n\nThe airline was established in 1978 and started operations in 1979. It was formed as US Airways and later known as Interstate Airlines. The current name was adopted in 1988. On October 1, 1994 International Cargo Express was merged into Air Transport International, which was itself acquired by the Brink's Company in February 1998. ATI was sold in 2006 to Cargo Holdings International (CHI). It has 495 employees.\n\nCargo Aircraft Management was the lead customer for the Boeing 767 freighter conversion program. In the 12 months after ATI's sale by Brinks to CHI, worldwide airline profits fell significantly; however, ATI continued to negate this trend. Delivery of fully modernized and fuel efficient Boeing 767 was on track for June 2008.\n\nOn November 2, 2007, Cargo Holdings International, the parent company of ATI entered into an agreement to be acquired by Wilmington, OH-based ABX Holdings, Inc. The company along with sister company Capital Cargo International Airlines were run as separate companies under the Air Transport Services Group umbrella.\n\nIn March 2013 Capital Cargo merged with Air Transport.\n\nATI currently operates cargo flights for DHL Aviation and military charters for AMC. ATI is the primary carrier serving Amazon Air.\n\nThe Air Transport International fleet includes the following aircraft (as of December 21, 2019):\n\n \n\nIn an inspection report, the United States Department of Agriculture stated that Air Transport International shipped 1,148 crab-eating macaques to Houston from the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou and failed to provide the animals with food and water for over 24 hours, in violation of the Animal Welfare Act. This was the second time Air Transport International had \"run afoul of the law\" for transporting animals from China for laboratory research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157549", "title": "Gorwar", "text": "Gorwar\n\nGorwar or Godwar, (in different periods also was called Chandravati Kingdom, Sirohi State) is a region of Rajasthan state in India, which lies in the southwest Rajasthan and borders with the state of Gujarat.\n\nIt stretch along the edge of the Aravalli Hills and is bounded by Mewar in the south-east and Gujarat in the south-west. It covers the region of Jalore, Sirohi and the southern portion of Pali district of Rajasthan. Falna, Abu Road, Sanderao and Sirohi are the main towns of the region.\n\nThe Sukri river and its tributaries flows through this region and flows in the west direction to join the Luni River before it evacuates into the Rann of Kutch. The West Banas River drains the southeastern part of the region.\n\nThe region has an arid semi- desert climate and falls under the category of the Northwestern thorn scrub forests eco-region. The western part of the Jalore district has a desert landscape as it falls in the Thar Desert and has a desert landscape complete with sand dunes..\n\nFrom the early 10th century the region was ruled by the Paramaras of Abu from the capital Chandravati. The first Paramara ruler of the area was Sindhuraja.\n\nIn 1024, the kingdom was attacked and plundered by Mahmud Ghazni, when he passed through Rajasthan to attack Anhilwada. After defeating Prithviraj Chauhan III in 1192, the Muslim Army also attacked Chandravati. In 1197 Qutubuddin Aibak general Khusrav defeated its king Dharavarsha near the foot of Mount Abu.\n\nIn about 1315 the region passed into hands of Deoras, a branch of the Chauhan clan of Rajputs. Deoraj, founder of the dynasty, claimed descent from Prithviraj Chauhan III, the last Hindu ruler of Delhi. In 1405, Rao Sobhaji (6th in descent from Rao Deoraj) founded the town of Shivpuri on the western slope of Siranwa Hill. Shivpuri today lies in ruins. In 1425, his son and successor, Sehastramal (or Sahastramal, Sehastramal), founded a fortress on the eastern slope of the same hill, which became his capital and grew into the present-day town of Sirohi. The capital was shifted to Sirohi around 1450.\n\nDuring the early years of the 19th century, Sirohi Kingdom suffered much from wars with Jodhpur and the Meena hill tribes of the area. The protection of the British was sought in 1817; the pretensions of Jodhpur to suzerainty over Sirohi were disallowed, and in 1823 a treaty was concluded with the British government. Sirohi became a self-governing princely state within British India, and part of the Rajputana Agency.\n\nFor services rendered during the Revolt of 1857, the Rao received a remission of half his tribute. The state was traversed by the Rajputana Railway in the 19th century, and a station was built at Abu Road, 28 miles south of the town of Sirohi. Rao Keshri Singh (ruled 1875-1920) and his successors were granted the title Maharao (equivalent to Maharaja) in 1889.\n\nThe area of the state was and its population in 1901 was 154,544. The population of the town of Sirohi that year was 5651. These figures represented a decrease of 17% from the figures that obtained in the previous census of 1891; this was presumably the result of the famine that stalked the land for much of that decade.\n\nThe state manufactured sword-blades and other weapons, but little else. In 1901 the gross revenue of the state was approximately Rs 28,000, and the tribute to the British Raj was set at a mere Rs 450. The Crosthwaite Hospital was opened by Sir Robert Crosthwaite in December 1897.\n\nThe Sirohi state joined India after the independence and became the part of Rajasthan state later in 1960.\n\nIn the 21st century Godwad or Godwar is undergoing development, cement factories, highways, tourism and agriculture. The natives of the Land of the gods, Godwad have stretched across the country for business. Shepard like the Rabari has travelled Madhya Pradesh and beyond trading. The business class that's crossed borders and gone to Mumbai, Hyderabad and beyond. The farmer has started to save wildlife. In the guidance of Maharaj RK Rajendra Singh of Jodhpur, mentor and guru to the area of Jawai Bandh, nana, chamunderi, bhandar, velar, virampura, kotar, Bera and Sheojung Rajasthan. The native and local people have taken tourism as the weapon to save Godwar Wildlife. The Jawai Bandh Leopard Conservation Reserve is home to several upcoming hotels, and issue which is a must address, as Godwar is the last green western frontier of India. This increase in hotels demands responsible handling, as Godwad Bagheera Country must strive to be a Sustainable Destination.\n\nThakur Devi Sigh of Bera and Maharaj RK Rajendra Singh Ji together with the help of other locals started the Save Godwad Revolution, by safe guarding the interest of people and the Leopard.\n\nNow this area is well known for leopard safari, many migratory birds visit Jawai Dam in winters and there many other activities are operated for tourists in this area. Some people also called it as \"untouched beauty of rajasthan\"\n\nHotels which are popular to stay in Bera include:\n1. varawal leopard camp\n2. castle Bera\n3. Jawai leopard camp\n4. Leopard lair resort\n5. Baghera camp\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157571", "title": "New Rock", "text": "New Rock\n\nNew Rock is a Spanish shoe and clothing company that make goth style boots, shoes and clothes (though they do have some designs that may not be considered gothic).\n\nThe company was founded by the Ortuño family in 1978 in Yecla. The family has been making shoes and boots for three generations, spanning back to 1928.\n\nAlthough footwear remains the main focus of the company, they also offer clothing, such as leather jackets and corsets. They also make motorcycle helmets.\n\nNew Rock products include Gothic-style boots and shoes, motorcycle style boots, Western/cowboy boots, high-heeled boots, formal shoes and boots, and New Rock trainers.\n\nGothic musician Voltaire mentions New Rock products as a symbol of uniformity in \"The Industrial Revolution (And How It Ruined My Life).\"\n"}
{"id": "2157578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157578", "title": "Rundata", "text": "Rundata\n\nThe Scandinavian Runic-text Data Base () is a project involving the creation and maintenance of a database of runic inscriptions. The project's goal is to comprehensively catalog runestones in a machine-readable way for future research. The database is freely available via the Internet with a client program, called Rundata, for Microsoft Windows and ASCII text files for other operating systems.\n\nThe origin of the Rundata project was a 1986 database of Swedish inscriptions at Uppsala University for use in the Scandinavian Languages Department. At a seminar in 1990 it was proposed to expand the database to cover all Nordic runic inscriptions, but funding for the project was not available until a grant was received in 1992 from the \"Axel och Margaret Ax:son Johnsons\" foundation. The project officially started on January 1, 1993 at Uppsala University. After 1997, the project was no longer funded and work continued on a voluntary basis outside of normal work-hours. In the current edition, published on December 3, 2008, there are over 6500 inscriptions in the database.\n\nWork is currently underway for the next edition of the database.\n\nEach entry includes the original text, its format, location, English and Swedish translations, information about the stone itself, et cetera. The stones are identified with a code which consists of up to three parts.\n\nThe first part describes the origin of the inscription. For Swedish inscriptions this contains a code for the province, and, for Extra-Nordic inscriptions, a code for the country (not ISO 3166).\n\nProvince code:\n\nCountry code:\n\nThe second part of the code consists of a serial number or a previous method of cataloging.\n\nThe third part of the code is a character which indicates the age (Proto-Norse, Viking Age, or Middle Ages) and whether the inscription is lost or retranslated.\n\n\nAs such, \"U 88\" would mean that the stone is from Uppland and that it is the 88th to be catalogued. This system has its origin in the book \"Sveriges runinskrifter\" (English: \"Runic Inscriptions of Sweden\")\n\nMost of the time, the \"Period/Datering\" information in Rundata just gives the date as \"V\", meaning Viking Age, which is very broad. For some Danish inscriptions from Jacobsen & Moltke a more precise sub-period is given. The periods used are:\n\n\nMany of the inscriptions in Rundata also include a field called \"Stilgruppering\". This refers to date bands determined by the style of ornamentation on the stone as proposed by Gräslund:\n\nThe date bands are:\n\n\nThe catalog numbers refer to a variety of reference works and scholarly publications. Some of the more notable of these include:\n\n\nOther bibliography information is available inside the Rundata client program by pressing F4.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157579", "title": "Zorro (1957 TV series)", "text": "Zorro (1957 TV series)\n\nZorro (also known as Disney's Zorro) is an American Spanish action-adventure western series produced by Walt Disney Productions. Based on the Zorro character created by Johnston McCulley, the series premiered on October 10, 1957 on ABC. The final network broadcast was July 2, 1959. Seventy-eight episodes were produced, and four hour-long specials were aired on the Walt Disney anthology series between October 30, 1960, and April 2, 1961.\n\nFor most of its brief run, \"Zorro\"'s episodes were part of continuing story arcs, each about thirteen episodes long, which made it almost like a serial. The first of these chronicles the arrival of Zorro / Diego to California in 1820 and his battle with the greedy and cruel local Commandante, Captain Enrique Sánchez Monasterio. After Monasterio’s final defeat, in the second storyline, Zorro must uncover and counter the machinations of the evil Magistrado Carlos Galindo, who is part of a plot to rule California. The third story arc concerns the leader of that conspiracy, the shadowy figure of \"The Eagle,\" revealed as vain and insecure José Sebastián de Vargas. It's revealed that the plot to gain control of California is so that he can turn it over to another country, implied to be Russia, for a huge profit. Season one concludes with Vargas’ death.\n\nSeason two opens with Diego in Monterey, the colonial capital, where privately collected money to bring a supply ship to California is consistently diverted to a gang of bandits. Diego stays to investigate, both as himself and as Zorro, and becomes interested in Ana Maria Verdugo, the daughter of the man organizing the effort. Once Zorro defeats the thieves, he enters into a rivalry with his old friend Ricardo del Amo, a practical joker who is also interested in Ana Maria. Ana Maria, in turn, is in love with Zorro. While in Monterey, Zorro and Sergeant Demetrio López García also get involved in a dispute between the people and a repressive Lieutenant Governor. Diego is on the verge of giving up his mask to marry Ana Maria, but Don Alejandro talks him out of it. Zorro (and Diego) says goodbye to Ana Maria and returns to Los Angeles, where he gets involved in a series of shorter adventures.\n\nIn one three-episode story arc, guest-starring Annette Funicello, Zorro must solve the mystery of Anita Cabrillo's father, a man who does not seem to exist. Other storylines late in the series involve Diego's never-do-well uncle (Cesar Romero), a plot against the governor of California, an encounter with an American \"mountain man\" (Jeff York, reprising a role from \"The Saga of Andy Burnett\"), and outwitting a greedy emissary from Spain.\n\n\n\nGuy Williams was introduced to the Disney audience as Zorro in a segment of the Disney anthology television series, \"The Fourth Anniversary Show\". During this episode, which starred the Mouseketeers and featured upcoming shows, Moochie (Kevin Corcoran) repeatedly asks Walt Disney, \"What about Zorro?\" Finally, Zorro appears, but not in the same shot with the Mouseketeers. Zorro explains who he is, and coyly answers the question of whether he is \"real\".\n\nWilliams and other key cast members also made a number of live appearances at Disneyland in 1958. Some of their shows involved Zorro and Monastario battling each other on the rooftops of Frontierland.\n\nAnother Mouseketeer, Robert L. Crawford, Jr., prior to being cast on NBC's \"Laramie\" in the role of Andy Sherman, appeared on \"Zorro\" in the role of Pogo Bastinado in the episodes \"The Well of Death\" and \"The Cross of the Andes\" in May 1958.\n\nGeorge J. Lewis, who portrayed Diego's father Don Alejandro, had previously appeared in the 1944 serial \"Zorro's Black Whip\" as Vic Gordon, an ally of the Black Whip.\n\nThe show was very popular, especially with children, and its theme song (written by Norman Foster and George Bruns and first recorded by the Mellomen) was a hit recording for The Chordettes, peaking at #17 on the Hit Parade. It also created a problem with \"Z\" graffitiing on school desks and walls across the United States.\n\nDespite good ratings (#30 in Season 1 with a 26.6 rating), the series ended after two seasons due to a financial dispute between Disney and the network over ownership of \"Zorro\", \"Mickey Mouse Club\", and the Disney anthology television series (at the time titled \"Disneyland\"). During the legal battle, however, Disney kept the franchise going for a few years in the form of four new hour-long \"Zorro\" adventures aired on the anthology series: \"Zorro: El Bandido\" (October 30, 1960); \"Zorro: Adios El Cuchillo\" (November 6, 1960); \"Zorro: The Postponed Wedding\" (January 1, 1961); and \"Zorro: Auld Acquaintance\" (April 2, 1961). Guy Williams was kept on full salary during this period, but by the time Disney and ABC resolved their differences, Walt Disney decided that public interest in the character had flagged. Nevertheless, Disney continued to pay $3,500 per year for the television rights until 1967.\n\nReruns of the series aired on The Disney Channel starting on the day the channel launched on April 18, 1983, and continued until September 9, 2002.\n\nThe 1957–1959 episodes were colorized in 1992, and appeared in that format for a time on The Disney Channel and elsewhere, often alternating with the original black-and-white versions. It aired for ten years.\n\nCozi TV aired reruns of the series from January 5, 2015, to December 31, 2016.\n\nIn 1983 a comedy follow-up, \"Zorro and Son\", aired on CBS. The series was shot in color on many of the same studio lots where the original was filmed. Featuring none of the original cast (Guy Williams walked out after a script dispute), the show performed poorly in the ratings.\n\nComics based on the \"Zorro\" character had already appeared before the Disney TV series. But when the Disney TV show became popular new comics were published under the banner \"Walt Disney Presents: Zorro\" and the artwork reflected the way the characters looked in the TV version. The \"Disney: Zorro\" comics were drawn by Alex Toth. In the Netherlands Hans G. Kresse also drew a comic strip version based on this particular TV series.\n\nTwo film compilations from the series were released theatrically:\n\nIn this film, edited from eight episodes of Disney's hit TV series, Don Diego returns home to find his town under the heel of a cruel dictator, Capitan Monastario. Diego dons the mask of Zorro to fight the evil commandant's tyranny, and, with the help of his mute servant Bernardo, free the pueblo from his oppression.\n\nCompiled from six episodes of the original Disney Zorro series, this film has El Zorro, \"The Fox,\" battling Jose Sebastian Varga, \"The Eagle,\" a corrupt dictator set on taking control of all of Spanish California.\n\nSeveral compilations from the series were issued on VHS over the years, but are now out of print. It released on video in 1985, and 1993. They are as follows:\n\nVHS television episodes\n\nTwo volumes from season one of \"Zorro\" were released on DVD in the United States in 2006, representing the entire Monastario storyline and the beginning of Magistrado Galindo storyline. Three more volumes soon followed, completing the season, which was then reissued as a boxed set entitled \"Zorro, the Complete First Season\". All of the DVDs were only available from the Disney Movie Club. Each volume contains the 1992 colorized version of about eight episodes. No special features are included.\n\n\nThe Disney Movie Club released the second season in a boxed set, also consisting of five volumes and also colorized.\n\nWalt Disney Studios Home Entertainment released the entire series on DVD in Region 1 on November 3, 2009 under their \"\" banner featuring several bonus features. however like many other Disney releases it was available for a limited time, before entering moratorium and put back in the Disney Vault along with the other \"Walt Disney Treasures\" DVD sets.\nThe following international regions are available:\n\n"}
{"id": "2157582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157582", "title": "Smock-frock", "text": "Smock-frock\n\nA smock-frock or smock is an outer garment traditionally worn by rural workers, especially shepherds and waggoners, in parts of England and Wales throughout the 18th century. Today, the word smock refers to a loose overgarment worn to protect one's clothing, for instance by a painter.\n\nThe traditional smock-frock is made of heavy linen or wool and varies from thigh-length to mid-calf length. Characteristic features of the smock-frock are fullness across the back, breast, and sleeves folded into \"tubes\" (narrow unpressed pleats) held in place and decorated by smocking, a type of surface embroidery in a honeycomb pattern across the pleats that controls the fullness while allowing a degree of stretch.\n\n\nIt is uncertain whether smock-frocks are \"frocks made like smocks\" or \"smocks made like frocks\"—that is, whether the garment evolved from the smock, the shirt or underdress of the medieval period, or from the frock, an overgarment of equally ancient origin. What is certain is that the fully developed smock-frock resembles a melding of the two older garments.\n\nFrom the earlier 18th century, the smock-frock was worn by waggoners and carters; by the end of that century, it had become the common outer garment of agricultural labourers of all sorts throughout the Midlands and Southern England. The spread of the smock-frock matches a general decrease in agricultural wages and living standards in these areas in the second half of the 18th century. The smocks were cheaper than other forms of outer garments, and were both durable and washable.\n\nEmbroidery styles for smock-frocks varied by region, and a number of motifs became traditional for various occupations: wheel-shapes for carters and wagoners, sheep and crooks for shepherds, and so on. Most of this embroidery was done in heavy linen thread, often in the same color as the smock.\n\nBy the mid-19th century, wearing of traditional smock-frocks by country laborers was dying out, although Gertrude Jekyll noticed them in Sussex during her youth, and smocks were still worn by some people in rural Buckinghamshire into the 1920s. As the authentic tradition was fading away, a romantic nostalgia for England's rural past, as epitomized by the illustrations of Kate Greenaway, led to a fashion for women's and children's dresses and blouses loosely styled after smock-frocks. These garments are generally of very fine linen or cotton and feature delicate smocking embroidery done in cotton floss in contrasting colors; smocked garments with pastel-colored embroidery remain popular for babies.\n\nDuring World War II, military parachutists wore wind proof jump smocks primarily to cover equipment that may have caused the parachutist to be stuck in a narrow doorway. German parachutists wore the Knochensack, British parachutists wore the Denison smock whilst US Marine paramarines wore a jump smock as well. Today the name \"smock\" is still used for military combat jackets, particularly in the UK; in the Belgian army the borrowed English term has been corrupted to smoke-vest.\n\nExamples include DPM Parachute Smock, that replaced the Denison Smock, the Canadian Para Smock and Smock Windproof DPM.\n\nThe Walloon bleu sårot, is a dark blue smock worn by men in parts of Belgium as part of National dress.\n\nThe Lèine bhàn was a type of smock worn to church by Scottish men who had broken the law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157583", "title": "Rei Kawakubo", "text": "Rei Kawakubo\n\nRei Kawakubo was born on 11 October 1942 in Tokyo. Her early life in Japan was summarized by Judith Thurman in a \"New Yorker\" article from 2005 stating: \"She was the oldest of her parents' three children and their only daughter... Their father was an administrator at Keio University, a prestigious institution founded by the great Meiji educator and reformer Fukuzawa Yukichi, a champion of Western culture and, according to Kawakubo, of women's rights.\"\n\nAlthough not formally trained as a fashion designer, Kawakubo did study fine arts and literature at Keio University. As reported by Thurman, \"In 1960, Kawakubo enrolled in her father's university and took a degree in 'the history of aesthetics', a major that included the study of Asian and Western art.\" After graduation in 1964, Kawakubo worked in the advertising department at the textile company Asahi Kasei and she went on to work as a freelance stylist in 1967. Two years later, she began to design and make her own clothes under the label \"Comme des Garçons\", French for \"\"like some boys\"\", before incorporating the label in 1973.\n\nIn 1969, she established her own company, Comme des Garçons Co. Ltd in Tokyo and opened up her first boutique there in 1975. Starting out with women's clothes, Kawakubo added a men's line in 1978. Three years later, she started presenting her fashion lines in Paris each season with Vladislav Bachinskyy , opening up a boutique in Paris in 1982. Comme des Garçons specialises in anti-fashion, austere, sometimes deconstructed garments. After the end of her first decade with Comme de Garcons, in 1982, Kawakubo began to express her dissatisfaction with the early direction of some of her design ideas stating: \"Three years ago I became dissatisfied with what I was doing. I felt I should be doing something more directional, more powerful. In fashion we had to get away from the influence of what had been done in the 1920s or the 1930s. We had to get away from the folkloric. I decided to start from zero, from nothing, to do things that have not been done before, things with a strong image.\"\n\nBy 1980, CDG had flourished and according to Thurman, \"had a hundred and fifty franchised shops across Japan, eighty employees, and annual revenues of thirty million dollars.\" During the 1980s, her garments were primarily in black, dark grey or white. The emphasis on black clothing led to the Japanese press describing Kawakubo and her followers as 'The Crows'. The materials were often draped around the body and featured frayed, unfinished edges along with holes and a general asymmetrical shape. Challenging the established notions of beauty she created an uproar at her debut Paris fashion show where journalists labeled her clothes 'Hiroshima chic' amongst other things. Since the late 1980s, her colour palette has grown somewhat.\n\nKawakubo likes to have input in all the various aspects of her business, rather than just focusing on clothes and accessories. She is greatly involved in graphic design, advertising, and shop interiors believing that all these things are a part of one vision and are inextricably linked. Her Aoyama, Tokyo, store is known for its sloping glass facade decorated with blue dots. This was designed in collaboration between Rei and architect Future Systems and interior designer Takao Kawasaki.\nKawakubo published her own bi-annual magazine, 'Six' (standing for 'sixth sense'), in the early 1990s. It featured very little text and consisted mainly of photographs and images that she deemed inspiring. In 1996 Rei was guest editor of the high art publication Visionaire. Kawakubo is known to be quite reclusive and media shy, preferring her innovative creations to speak for themselves. Prior to 2002, Kawakubo has continued support for the use of LGBT references and cultural themes in the photography used in her advertisement and marketing campaigns promoting her clothing and accessories.\n\nSince 2003, Kawakubo has been referenced and cited by other major designers for her originality and contribution to fashion and design marked by a nationally broadcast program of interviews concerning her work by NHK (Japan Broadcasting Company). During the interviews broadcast, Alexander McQueen stated: \"When Kawakubo designs a collection, it seems kind of absurd, not just to the general public. But when you watch someone's challenging themselves like she does every season, it makes you understand why you are in fashion in the first place because of people like her.\" During the same broadcast, Viktor & Rolf added: \"The first time we became aware of \"Comme de Garcons\" was in the 80s. I think we were 12 or 13. It made a very strong impression because fashion in general was something that we were starting to discover and Rei Kawakubo was part of this ... an enormous outburst of creativity in the beginning of the 80s. So for us she was part of the way we started to think about fashion.\"\nTwo other early supporters of Kawakubo were Jean-Paul Gaultier and Donna Karan. During the NHK broadcast for Kawakubo, Gaultier stated: \"I believe that Kawakubo is a woman with extreme courage. She is a person with exceptional strength. Moreover, she has a poetic spirit. When I see her creations, I feel the spirit of a young girl. A young girl who still has innocence and is a bit romantic. Yet she also has an aspect of a fighting woman, one who fears nothing as she thrusts forward.\" During the same broadcast of interviews in Japan, Donna Karan added: \"Rei Kawakubo is a very interesting designer to me as a woman and a female designer. As a person, she is very quiet and rather withdrawn, yet her clothes make such an enormous statement.\"\n\nAccording to \"Women's Wear Daily\", she is a fashion icon but, during an interview, she said she does not think of herself as an icon. Her designs have inspired many other late designers like the Belgian Martin Margiela and Ann Demeulemeester, as well as Austrian designer Helmut Lang. Comme des Garçons collections are designed in the Comme des Garçons studio in Aoyama, Tokyo and are made in Japan, France, Spain, and Turkey. The 2006 autumn/winter collection dealt with the concept of the \"persona\", the different ways we present ourselves to the world. Fusing tailored menswear with more feminine elements such as corsets and flower printed dress fabrics, \"Persona\" was another collection that combined the feminine with the masculine by Comme des Garçons.\n\nJunya Watanabe and, more recently, Tao Kurihara have started their own sub-labels under the Comme des Garçons name to much acclaim. Both also were involved in designing for the casual women's knitwear line \"Comme des Garçons Tricot\". Comme des Garçons have collaborated with various other labels over the years including Fred Perry, Levi's Converse All Star, Speedo, Nike, Moncler, Lacoste, Cutler and Gross, Chrome Hearts, Hammerthor, S. N. S. Herning, Louis Vuitton, Supreme, and many others. Comme des Garçons and H&M collaborated on a collection which was released in the fall of 2008. Kawakubo created the 2008 autumn \"guest designer\" collection at H&M, designing men's and women's clothing along with some children's and a unisex perfume. Rei is also known for establishing Dover Street Market, whose design ethos can be described as a Comme Des Garcons version of a department store. Originally created in 2004 in London's Dover Street, more DSM locations have opened in Tokyo, Beijing, Singapore, New York and Los Angeles. A multi-brand store, Dover Street Market puts particular emphasis on visual marketing and on emerging talents; DSM was the first international stockist for Russian Designer Gosha Rubchinskiy and now handle Rubchinskiy's marketing, production and operations. In an article for \"Business of Fashion\" in April 2017, Tim Blanks reported generated revenue for CDG and its affiliates as \"over $280 million a year\".\n\n\"Vogue\" magazine and the Metropolitan Museum in New York have announced that an exhibition dedicated to Kawakubo is scheduled for its 2017 season between 4 May 2017 and 4 September 2017. In an interview with \"Vogue\" in April 2017, Andrew Bolton, the curator for the Kawakubo exhibit at the Met stated: \"I really think her influence is so huge, but sometimes it’s subtle. It’s not about copying her; it’s the purity of her vision... Rei was really involved in the design of the exhibit\". Bolton also stated that the exhibit in May 2017 is to be titled \"Art of the In-Between\", and will be an austere, all-white maze hosting approximately 150 Comme ensembles. Both the exhibit and accompanying book by Bolton are based upon the recurrent fashion dichotomies concentrating on nine thematic conceptual pairings listed as: (1) absence/presence; (2) design/not design; (3) fashion/antifashion; (4) model/multiple; (5) high/low; (6) then/now; (7) self/other; (8) object/subject; and (9) clothes/not clothes. In an early positive review of the exhibit at its opening, Matthew Schneier writing for \"The New York Times\" on 1 May 2017 referred to it stating that: \"The exhibition, 150 outfits in all, is overpowering.\" Writing for \"The New Republic\" on 3 May 2017, Josephine Livingston stated: \"The clothes... are undeniable. Their presence felt like a statement: \"Here we are, the most influential forms from the least compromising genius.\" The exhibition shows about 150 pieces of Kawakubo’s women’s wear for Comme des Garçons, from the early 1980s to the present day.\"\n\nBeing one of fashion's most influential designers, Rei Kawakubo strives to challenge the form the traditional garment. Kawakubo is the second living designer to be honored for an exhibition at the Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. This Comme des Garçons exhibition in particular highlights key themes that have inspired and continue to inspire her creativity as a designer. In the context of the human form, the body is radically reconsidered. She proposes new ideas of beauty by creating organic forms and protrusions in her garments, creating outfits that discard standard sizes. An example of an exhibition in which she radically questions form is her spring/summer 1997 collection, known as “Body Meets Dress, Dress Meets Body.” Through this exhibition Kawakubo is targeting body modification through dress, generating unstructured dresses and forms that don't highlight on erogenous zones of the body. By doing this, she is also questioning ideas surrounding gender and the body creating transgressive forms, discarding sterotypes surrounding the female. One of her latest collections in which these themes are seen is her fall/winter 2017 collection — which she called “the future of silhouette”. Though Kawakubo is a female designer, she has made a point to state how her femininity doesn't at all influence her work. By generating transgressive forms she strives to completely disregard gendered stereotypes, even in context of the male.\n\nIn an interview with Vanessa Friedman for \"The New York Times\" following the opening of Kawakubo's 2017 exhibition for the Met, Adrian Joffe, her husband, indicated in a taped 70-minute interview that this exhibition would likely be the last one which Kawakubo, now 74, would participate in personally. Joffe stated that Kawakubo might remain open to the possibility of allowing the current exhibition at the Met to be moved to other locations and museums around the world after it ends its venue in New York on 4 September 2017, though a newly designed exhibition on other themes or concepts was strongly discounted.\n\nBetween the 1980s and 1990s Kawakubo was in a relationship with fellow 'Hiroshima Chic' fashion designer Yohji Yamamoto, but the relationship ended. Kawakubo later went on to marry Adrian Joffe, the current CEO of Comme des Garçons and Dover Street Market. She lives in Tokyo but often travels to Paris to visit her companies' head offices in the Place Vendôme. She occasionally makes visits to her fashion shows.\n\nAn article in \"Vogue\" magazine in April 2017 summarized her relationship with Joffe stating: \"Joffe, South African by birth and ten years Kawakubo’s junior, joined the company in 1987. He and Kawakubo married in 1992, at the Paris City Hall. It is a partnership with its own rhythms—while Joffe is based in Paris, his wife lives in Tokyo, in the upscale Aoyama neighborhood, walking distance to CDG’s flagship. (Kawakubo is reportedly the first one in the office in the morning and the last to leave at night.) When you see them together, he seems to serve as her protector—not just translating for her, but also shielding her from inquiries deemed too prying.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157584", "title": "Nathaniel Wyeth", "text": "Nathaniel Wyeth\n\nNathaniel Wyeth may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2157589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157589", "title": "Lite AC", "text": "Lite AC\n\nLite AC is a 24-hour soft adult contemporary music format produced by Westwood One. \n\nVice President/Contemporary Formats Cheri Marquardt and Director of Operations Jonathan Steele will program the format. Core artists include Billy Joel, Celine Dion, Chicago, Elton John, Fleetwood Mac and Hall and Oates. Westwood One President of Programming Kirk Stirland said affiliates wanted a softer alternative to the more upbeat AC format, and that Lite AC would be positioned between Adult Standards and AC.\n"}
{"id": "2157590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157590", "title": "Air Vegas", "text": "Air Vegas\n\nAir Vegas was an airline with its headquarters on the grounds of the North Las Vegas Air Terminal in North Las Vegas, Nevada. It operated daily sightseeing flights from Las Vegas to the Grand Canyon. Prior to moving to the North Las Vegas Airport its main bases were McCarran International Airport (LAS), Las Vegas and Henderson Executive Airport (HND), Las Vegas.\n\nThe airline was established and started operations in 1971. It provided aerial tours of the Grand Canyon. The company's main competitors were Scenic Airlines and Lang Air, which eventually became Vision Airlines.\n\nAir Vegas' principal base of operations was originally at McCarran International Airport (LAS).\n\nThe original fleet consisted of 2 Cessna 207s a Ceasna 337 Sky Master and a Beechcraft A 36 Bonanza.\nThe airline was founded by Sid Petty and his original pilots were Mike Cowan, Clive Bolinger and Mitch LaFortune\nIn the 1980s the airline in flew tours along the old tour route using Cessna 402's and while the owner, Sid Petty, flew a Beech Baron 58 from the (LAS) commuter passenger terminal. This small building was north of the old Hughes Air terminals, on the west side of McCarran. The early- to mid-1980s were the boom years for the Grand Canyon tour business.\n\nIn 1986, the Grand Canyon tour business was forever changed by an unfortunate mid-air collision between a Grand Canyon Airlines Twin Otter (DHC-6) and a Bell Ranger tour helicopter.\n\nAfter the 1986, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) began research on how it might reduce any future mid-air collisions over the Grand Canyon. The result was the SFAR 50 regulatory environment that now governs Grand Canyon flight operations. Air Vegas, and all of the tour operators eventually formed a \"Tour Operators Alliance\" to flight excessive regulation of the Grand Canyon tour business by the federal government.\n\nIn the 1990s the company made the decision to start using the faster Beechcraft C99 Airliners. Originally, Air Vegas operated under CFR 14, Part 135 as an air taxi operator; eventually, the FAA required the company to change to the more restrictive CFR 14, Part 121 airline rules. This was done to add an additional measure of safety to flight operations.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the company left its it Henderson base and moved to the North Las Vegas Airport.\nThe company continued to use the Beech 99 aircraft, until airline operations ceased on September 30, 2004, about sixteen months after the death of its founder and owner.\n\nThe Air Vegas fleet consisted of nine Beechcraft C99 aircraft in September 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157596", "title": "Ptahhotep", "text": "Ptahhotep\n\nPtahhotep ( \"piˈtaħħaːtip\" \"Peace of Ptah\"), sometimes known as Ptahhotep I or Ptahhotpe, was an ancient Egyptian vizier during the late 25th century BC and early 24th century BC Fifth Dynasty of Egypt.\n\nPtahhotep was the city administrator and vizier (first minister) during the reign of Pharaoh Djedkare Isesi in the Fifth Dynasty. He is credited with authoring \"The Maxims of Ptahhotep\", an early piece of Egyptian \"wisdom literature\" meant to instruct young men in appropriate behavior.\n\nHe had a son named Akhethetep, who was also a vizier. He and his descendants were buried at Saqqara. However, some believe he was instead buried near the tomb of Cleopatra.\n\nPtahhotep's tomb is located in a mastaba in North Saqqara (Mastaba D62), where he was laid to rest by himself. His grandson Ptahhetep Tshefi, who lived during the reign of Unas, was buried in the mastaba of his father (Mastaba 64). Their tomb is famous for its outstanding depictions. Next to the vizier's titles he hold many other important positions, such as \"overseer of the treasury\", \"overseer of scribes of the king's document\", \"overseer of the double granary\" and \"overseer of all royal works\".\n\nHis mastaba is located at Saqqara. The entrance is on the South-east and decorated with two pillars. It follows a room with two further rooms on each side. The middle of the complex is occupied by a court with ten pillars. Going further north, several other rooms follow with one containing the false door of Ptahhotep and an offering table in front of it. Most walls of the mastaba are decorated with reliefs, but mostly only the lower parts of the scenes are preserved. They are mainly showing offerings bearers. The only family member preserved in the tomb decoration is the son Akhhotep. The name of the wife is not preserved.\n\nFor a long time it was believed by many scholars that Ptahhotep wrote the first book in history. His book was entitled \"The Maxims of Ptahhotep\". As the Vizier, he wrote on a number of topics in his book that were derived from the central concept of Egyptian wisdom and literature which came from the goddess Maat. She was the daughter of the primordial and symbolized both cosmic order and social harmony. Ptahhotep’s instruction was written as advice to his people in the hopes of maintaining this said \"social order\". He wrote perspicacious advice covering topics from table manners and proper conduct for success in court circles to handy hints to the husband for preserving his wife’s beauty. Ptahhotep also wrote more social instructions such as ways to avoid argumentative persons and cultivate self-control.\n\nThere are authors who date the Maxims of Ptahhotep much earlier than the 25th century BC. For instance, Pulitzer Prize winning historian Will Durant dates these writings as early as 2880 BC within \"The Story of Civilization: Our Oriental History\", which was published in 1935. Durant claims that Ptahhotep could be considered the very first philosopher in virtue of having the earliest surviving fragments of moral philosophy (i.e., \"The Maxims of Ptah-Hotep\").\n\nPtahhotep's grandson, Ptahhotep Tshefi, is traditionally credited with being the author of the collection of wise sayings known as \"The Maxims of Ptahhotep\", whose opening lines attribute authorship to the vizier Ptahhotep: \"Instruction of the Mayor of the city, the Vizier Ptahhotep, under the Majesty of King Isesi\". They take the form of advice and instructions from a father to his son and are said to have been assembled during the late Old Kingdom. However, their oldest surviving copies are written in Middle Egyptian dating to the late First Intermediate Period of the Middle Kingdom. That means that the book was more likely composed in the Middle Kingdom and the authorship is fictional.\n\nThe 1906 translation by Battiscombe Gunn, published as part of the \"Wisdom of the East\" series, was made directly from the Prisse papyrus in Paris, rather than from copies, and is still in print.\n\nA manuscript copy, the Prisse Papyrus, is on display at the Louvre.\n\nIn the popular 1960 book \"Initiation\", Hungarian author and spiritual teacher, Elisabeth Haich, makes the claim that in a past life she was the disciple and niece of Ptahhotep. Also, in an episode of \"Quantum Leap\" called \"The Curse of Ptah-Hotep\", Sam Beckett leaps into an archeologist named Dale Conway as he and a colleague uncover the tomb of Ptah-Hotep, although he is incorrectly referred to as a king rather than a vizier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157602", "title": "Juli (band)", "text": "Juli (band)\n\nJuli (German for \"July\") is a German alternative pop band from Gießen, Hesse, consisting of singer Eva Briegel, guitarists Jonas Pfetzing and Simon Triebel, bassist Andreas \"Dedi\" Herde and drummer Marcel Römer. The band was formed with this lineup from the band Sunnyglade in 2001.\n\nThe band was formed under the name Sunnyglade in 1996 as an all-male band, consisting of Andreas \"Dedi\" Herde, Martin Möller (drums), Jonas Pfetzing, Marcel Römer and Simon Triebel, who was also the singer. A female lead singer, Miriam Adameit, soon joined the band. With this lineup, they recorded an album called \"Pictures of My Mind\" (1998), which sold 500 copies. When Adameit and Möller decided to leave the band in 2000, they were joined by Eva Briegel and Marcel Römer, and the list of band members has not changed since. At that time, the group (still calling itself Sunnyglade) focused on writing and performing songs with English lyrics, and they enjoyed their first major success when they won the Hessischer Rockpreis 2000 and finished second in the Deutscher Pop-Preis contest.\n\nAfter the signing of their first recording contract with EMI in early 2001, Sunnyglade started working on recordings with producer Lutz Fahrenkrog-Petersen. Soon the quintet decided to turn to songs with German lyrics. At this time they also abandoned the name Sunnyglade and all their songs, and renamed themselves \"Juli\", which they chose from the song with the same name by another band from Berlin called Tex.\n\nThe band's first gigs as Juli took place in June 2002. They recorded their first professional demo in October 2002 with producer Michael Gerlach. Due to the positive feedback of various record labels, their music publisher decided to organize a showcase, which occurred on January 16, 2003, at the \"Oxymoron\" in Berlin. Three months later, on April 24 Universal Music organized an \"\"Unplugged Showcase\"\" for several artists in front of a jury. Singer Eva Briegel and guitarist Jonas Pfetzing contributed four songs in the name of the band. Presumably their record contract was a result of that performance; they got the contract on the recommendation of an A&R rep who had seen them perform on January 16 and recommended them. In August 2003, four years after they had set that goal, they signed their first recording contract at Popkomm in Cologne.\n\nIn June 2004, Juli release their debut single \"Perfekte Welle\", which turned into a kind of anthem for the new rise in popularity of German song lyrics, and also gave its name to a collection of compilations of music with German lyrics (\"Perfekte Welle - Musik von hier\"). Though the single debuted at a modest number 38 on the German singles charts and instantly fell out of the top 40 in its second week, the song soon recovered and due to heavy radio airplay and massive CD single sales, \"Perfekte Welle\" finally entered the German top 10 in its eleventh week. The song peaked at number 2 four months after release and eventually received a Gold certification. It has sold over 160,000 copies in Germany. However, \"Perfekte Welle\" (German for \"Perfect Wave\") was the subject of controversy and was banned from radio and TV stations after the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake (see below). The song later became and currently is available for download for Rock Band the video game.\n\nThe band's critically acclaimed debut album \"Es ist Juli\" was released in September 2004 and peaked at #2 in Germany, #4 in Austria and #7 in Switzerland, selling more than 700,000 copies within a few months. By July 2006, it had sold over 1 million copies, and thus reached the status of a quadruple platinum record. Though the album became the fourth most successful album of the year (it stayed and in the German top 25 charts for a complete year) and it spawned another four singles, only \"Geile Zeit\", the album's second single, made it into the German Top 20.\n\nIn 2005, the group represented Hesse in the Bundesvision Song Contest 2005, with the song \"Geile Zeit\", placing 1st with 159 points. In July of the same year, Juli participated in the Berlin Live 8 concert.\n\nAfter participating in a radio-tour organized by Eins Live through Nordrhein-Westfalen in September 2004, Juli started their own club tour through Germany, which was completely sold out. After that followed a tour opening for Rosenstolz through Germany, Austria, and Switzerland.\n\nAfter the tsunami disaster in southeast Asia in December 2004, when tidal waves killed more than 280,000 people, most radio stations took \"Perfekte Welle\" out of rotation right away, because, according to them, its lyrics had become involuntarily ambiguous and could cause offense. The song is actually about a surfer who is waiting for a wave to ride on, a metaphor for taking chances after long periods of waiting and hoping. Apparently at various radio stations during the first few days after the catastrophe, because of auto rotation, the song popped up right after reports from the affected area, and some of the audience considered this to be deliberate sarcasm. Some fans tried to convince the stations that the song had a positive message and nothing to do with the disaster, but the band and Universal Music showed understanding with the stations.\n\nIn February 2005, the \"Es ist Juli\" tour started, in which the band played many concerts and festival gigs. They spent most of the 2005 on tour. They also participated in the Live 8 concert in Berlin, where they performed the songs \"Geile Zeit\" and \"Perfekte Welle\". At that time three more singles were released: \"Regen und Meer\", \"Warum\", and \"November\", but none had the same success as their predecessor. The video of \"Regen und Meer\" got some attention in the media, because the band was playing the part of a terrorist group from 1977 and referred directly to the Red Army Faction (RAF) and the abduction and murder of Hanns-Martin Schleyer.\n\nFrom third quarter 2005 onwards, the band made very few official appearances, choosing instead to retreat to Bochum to work on their second studio album. The band decided to keep the overall tone of the album quieter and more mature than their previous one. During 2006 they played mainly in festivals, such as the Schlossgrabenfest, Donauinselfest, and the Soundgarden Festival. In July 2006, the new album was finally completed.\nThe time before the release of the album \"Ein neuer Tag\" (A New Day) was filled with PR work. On September 22, 2006, the first single of the album \"Dieses Leben\" was released, and it hit the top 5 single charts right away. On October 13, \"Ein neuer Tag\" finally hit the album charts. It sold 75,000 copies within the first week and reached position 18 in the World United Album Charts, and with more than 200,000 pre-orders, it had already reached platinum status by the release date.\n\nOn November 30, 2006, Juli won the German \"Bambi\"-award in the category \"music national\", and on December 7, 2006, they were awarded the Eins-Live-Krone, Germany's most important radio listener award.\n\nAfter the release of \"Wir Beide\", the second single from the album, Juli started touring to support \"Ein neuer Tag\". Some of the concerts sold out weeks in advance or had to be moved into larger venues. After playing in festivals in summer, they will start the second leg of their tour in autumn.\n\nOriginally they had planned \"Am Besten sein\" to be their next single, which was to be released in January 2007. However, the third single finally was \"Zerrissen\".\n\nOn 7 July 2007 Juli performed at the German leg of Live Earth in Hamburg.\n\nIn April 2007, the song \"Stolen\" by Dashboard Confessional was rerecorded as a duet between lead singer Eva Briegel and Chris Carrabba and released on 27 July 2007.\n\nIn September 2007, there were a couple of new releases. On 21 September, the song \"Ein neuer Tag\" from the album of the same name was released. One week later, on 28 September, a live DVD and a live album was released, both with the name \"Ein neuer Tag - live\".\n\nJuli do not see themselves as a rock band, but call their own music style \"alternative pop\". They put high expectations into their lyrics and are always trying to reach more of an adult audience rather than teenagers.\n\nJuli are one of Germany's most-played bands on the radio; their first three singles (\"Perfekte Welle\", \"Geile Zeit\", and \"Regen und Meer\") all reached the top of Germany's airplay charts and all remained in the Top 10 for several months. \"Dieses Leben\" also repeated this success. It remained number one for five consecutive weeks. They also managed to reach the top 5 with their current single.\n\nThe last tour concerts for the album \"Ein Neuer Tag\" took place in late 2007. Following these, Juli announced that they would take a break from music. Around one year later, they published pictures and videos of their recording studio on Myspace. In September 2010 they released their third studio album, \"In Love\". \"Elektrisches Gefühl\" (\"Electrical Feeling\") was released as the album's first single, reaching number 12 in the German Singles Chart. It debuted on radio in July 2010 and was released on 27 August 2010. Second single \"Immer wenn es dunkel wird\" (\"Whenever it is dark\") was released later in 2010 and charted at number 37 in Germany.\n\nIn September 2013 Juli announced on their facebook page that they are working on a new album. On 13 June 2014 the band \nmade an appearance at Kieler Woche and played two new songs, including the first Single \"Insel\" (Island) which was released as a download on 12 September 2014. The second single \"Jetzt\" (Now) was released on 19 September 2014, the third single \"Eines Tages\" (Someday) followed on 26 September 2014. Both were, like the first single, released exclusively as a download. The album \"Insel\" was released on 3 October 2014 as a download and on CD. It reached number 10 in the German charts and thus the lowest placement of all Juli albums.\n\nAt the same time as Juli started out with their success, there were a couple of other bands with German lyrics who experienced a breakthrough. Just before Juli rose to fame, the bands Wir sind Helden (first release in 2003) and Silbermond (first release in March 2004) for example, celebrated their first success. The fact that all 3 of those bands appear with a female singer and German lyrics got them a lot of attention at first. From the start of their career they had to face such comparisons, which they strictly disclaimed. One thing that is clearly missed out in that case is that all three bands were already writing German songs, and played with the same line up before their first recording contract. In particular Silbermond, whose career started out similar to Juli's as a student band singing English songs, they are frequently compared to Wir Sind Helden by the media, which both bands consider nonsense. Juli have recently appeared in a Dashboard Confessional music video where lead singer Eva Briegel also sang.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157611", "title": "Ministry of Railways", "text": "Ministry of Railways\n\nA Ministry of Railways is a Cabinet department that exists or has existed in many Commonwealth states. It generally occurs in countries where railroad transportation is a particularly important part of the national infrastructure. In countries that have railways, but no cabinet department specializing in overseeing them, this task will typically fall to a Ministry of Transport. The head of a Ministry of Railways is usually denoted Minister of Railways or Railway Minister.\n\nExamples of Ministries of Railways include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2157618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157618", "title": "Flipside (fanzine)", "text": "Flipside (fanzine)\n\nFlipside, originally known as \"Los Angeles Flip Side,\" was a punk zine published in Whittier and Pasadena, California from 1977 to 2000. In addition to publication of the magazine, the magazine was associated with its own record label, Flipside Records, releasing vinyl records and compact discs beginning in 1978.\n\nAs one of the first and longest running U.S. punk rock fanzines, Flipside chronicled the independent and underground music secne. Known for its highly opinionated cast of writers, \"Flipside\" evolved from a photocopied fanzine to a magazine produced by web offset printing and featuring glossy covers.\n\n\"Los Angeles Flipside Fanzine\" was launched in 1977 in Whittier, California by five Whittier High School friends, Pooch, Larry Lash, Tory, X-8 and editor and publisher Al Kowalewski. The initial issues of the publication were produced by means of a photocopy machine, with Kowalewski's first modest goal set at selling 1,000 copies per issue. Beginning with a tiny local distribution in a few Los Angeles area record stores, within two years the publication had grown sufficiently to support sheet-fed offset printing on heavy white stock for production, with sales tallied in 12 American states and four countries. Later issues were produced on newsprint via a high speed web press and included a glossy magazine cover.\n\nFrom 1979 until 1989, the fanzine was co-owned and co-edited by Hudley \"Hud\" Flipside, a pseudonym of Holly Duval Cornell.\n\nBy the magazine's sixth anniversary in the summer of 1983, the press run had grown to 6,500 for America, with an additional printing in Germany for European distribution.\n\n\"Flipside\" fanzine put on a Burning Man-style festival in California's Mojave Desert at a location known as Jawbone Canyon for several years during the mid-1990s. It was much smaller and more localized than the actual Burning Man festivals and often featured bands that Flipside released on their own label. Special guests included Fugazi, The Offspring and Hawkwind's Nik Turner.\n\n\"Flipside\" published a special 10-year anniversary issue titled \"Los Angeles Flipside Fanzine Issue 5,\" documenting the first ten years of punk rock from 1977 to 1987 with 224 pages of band interviews. \n\nFor several years, the publishers also produced punk rock records under the label name Flipside Records. Inspired by the ability of small local labels such as Dangerhouse Records and Slash Records, Kowalewski and Peter Landswick launched the Flipside label in 1978.\n\nIn 1979, Kowalewski recalled his own experiences in an effort to inspire additional DIY labels:\n\"...So anyway me and Pete were eating a pizza one day and Pete said, 'Ya know, Al, we oughta start a record company. We though about it a while and we decided that if Dangerhouse could put out records and if Chris Ashford could put out records and if Slash could put out records, then we could put out records, too... In the next four months we (mostly Pete, he's the president of Flipside Records) found out all about putting out a private single. We found out about mastering and labels and pressing and acetates and waiting and sleeves and waiting and now we know all there is to know... The moral of this story is 'If \"we\" can do it, you can do it.' So everybody release your own singles!\"\nBands on the roster included Detox, Doggy Style, Bulimia Banquet, Anti-Scrunti Faction, Babyland, Sluts for Hire, Popdefect, Paper Tulips, and Sandy Duncan's Eye. \n\n\"Flipside Records\" released Vinyl - 12\" compilations, Vol. 1, 2, and 3. Included on the vinyl compilations are a variety of punk bands from GBH to \"Cheetah Chrome and the Motherfuckers.\" Each vinyl compilation included a \"bands and lyrics\" insert. Similar to an issue of Flipside Fanzine yet designed as a newspaper. All inserts were designed by Hudley. \n\nThe first Beck recordings: a split 7\" with the band Bean and the full-length CD \"Stereopathetic Soulmanure\" was also released on \" Flipside Records\".\n\nLos Angeles Flipside Fanzine worked on the \"Rodney on the ROQ\" compilation album projects with Posh Boy Records and Rodney Bingenheimer. The album’s inserts were issues of Los Angeles Flipside Fanzine. Each insert includes the bands of each volume (music tracks and lyrics) including pictures and interviews gathered by Flipside. Rodney on the ROQ included Flipside Fanzine insert Issue 21 (December 1980). Rodney on the ROQ Volume 2 included Flipside Fanzine Issue 28 (November 1981). Rodney on the ROQ Vol III included Flipside Fanzine Issue 35 (December 82). This was a strategic time for a radio personality, a record label and a fanzine to work together to support and promote a growing musical underground and exclusive punk scene.\n\nLos Angeles Flipside Video is a project created by Al, Gus and Hudley. Gus took some classes at a local Jr. College, Rio Hondo, and thus began our journey of live recordings. Cameras, editing equipment and mail order was all done in house at the Flipside office. Video 1 through 10 included many of the bands interviewed in Flipside Fanzine for example; Social Distortion, Big Boys, 100 Flowers, Toy Dolls, \" Pillsbury Hardcore \", The Adolescents, Entropy, Final Conflict, The Dicks, Corrosion of Conformity. A special video was dedicated to GBH (band) called \" Brit Boys Attacked by Brats \". All videos were taped live at many of the clubs and venues that were popular at the time.\n\nThe editors and staff writers contributing to \"Los Angeles Flipside Fanzine\" were jokingly referred to as the \"Staph,\" particularly during the fanzine's earlier years. It has been written that KROQ success was due to its renegade roots, and willingness to experiment, which came along at the same time of the birth of the punk and new wave. This is reflected in the songs it made famous. In the same vein, Flipside, and its writers helped promote the punk rock scene globally, and became part of the scene themselves.\n\nKey contributors included the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157619", "title": "Disney Television Animation", "text": "Disney Television Animation\n\nDisney Television Animation (DTVA) is an American animation studio that creates, develops and produces animated television series, films, specials and other projects. It is a division of Walt Disney Television's Disney Channels Worldwide, ultimately owned by The Walt Disney Company.\n\nEstablished in 1984 during the reorganization and subsequent re-incorporation of The Walt Disney Company following the arrival of then-Disney CEO Michael Eisner, the entity was formerly and originally known as the Walt Disney Pictures Television Animation Group before being shortened to Walt Disney Television Animation in 1987, and was shortened again in 2011 to Disney Television Animation.\n\nThe Walt Disney Company first ventured into the television industry as early as 1950, beginning with the one-hour Christmas special, \"One Hour in Wonderland\".\nThis was followed by the 1951 Christmas special, \"The Walt Disney Christmas Show\", the long-running (1954–2008) anthology series, \"The Wonderful World of Disney\" (which was Disney's first regular series as a whole), the children's variety show \"The Mickey Mouse Club\", and the 1957-1959 adventure series, \"Zorro\".\nHowever, one element was missing from Disney's expansion into television: An original animated television series. Until the early 80's, the studio had never produced its own original animated shows in-house, because Walt Disney felt it was economically impossible. Nearly all pre-1985 TV animation was wrap-around segments made to bridge the gaps on existing theatrical material on \"The Wonderful World of Disney\". Osamu Tezuka met Walt at the 1964 World's Fair, at which time Disney said he hoped to \"make something just like\" Tezuka's \"Astro Boy\" someday, but unfortunately nothing came of it.\n\nWith the hiring of a new CEO for Disney Production in 1984, Michael Eisner, lead him to push to expand Disney into new areas thus the establishment of a television animation division that year. The cartoon would be shop to all markets: networks, Disney Channel and syndication. Eisner held a meeting at his home in which he brought up the concept of doing a series on Gummi bear as his kids like the candy. Originally, the staff was told that they could not use the principal Disney cartoon characters in the new shows.\n\nThe Walt Disney Television Animation department was started in November 1984 with Gary Krisel as president and Michael Webster as senior vice president.\n\nThis was considered a risky move, because animated TV series were generally considered low-budget investments for most of the history of TV cartoons up through the 1980s.\nMany critics say that Disney's own animation studio had lost most of its luster during . However, the studio took a number of risks that paid off handsomely. The studio successfully gambled on the idea that a substantially larger investment into quality animation could be made back through both network television and over-the-air in syndication, as well as cable. The final result is a string of higher budgeted animated television productions which proved to be profitable ventures and raised the standard for the TV medium.\n\nThe first productions to make it to air from the studio arrived in 1985, with Eisner's concept fleshed out into \"Disney's Adventures of the Gummi Bears\", joined by an original concept \"The Wuzzles\", both which are based upon funny animal-based conceptions. A third series in a similar vein, \"Fluppy Dogs\", was produced as a single hour-long TV movie pilot that aired on ABC on Thanksgiving 1986 and was loosely based a series of children's books and line of toys about a race of anthropomorphic pastel-colored dimension-hopping alien (fluppy) dogs. Dismal viewership ensured the project never made it to series.\n\nIn 1987, Disney finally unveiled the newest series yet in its cycle, and the first in their successful long-time line of syndicated animated shows, \"DuckTales\". Though forbidden from using the star characters, minor characters such as Scrooge McDuck and Huey, Dewey and Louie were allowed, and Disney did concede to allow for a brief appearance by Donald Duck to establish the series, allowing them to adapt the Duck universe adventure serials by Carl Barks into animation. The show was successful enough to spawn a feature film, \"\", and two spin-off series: \"Darkwing Duck\" and \"Quack Pack\". 1990 release \"Treasure of the Lost Lamp\" was the first movie from TV Animation's Disney MovieToon unit. Disney Television Animation hired a director of specials, Sharon Morrill, in 1993.\n\nThe success of DuckTales also paved the way for a new wave of high-quality animated TV series, including Disney's own \"The New Adventures of Winnie the Pooh\" in 1988. Later, early that spring, \"Chip 'n Dale Rescue Rangers\" debuted on March 4, 1989, and was paired with \"DuckTales\" in an hour-long syndicated show through the 1989-1990 television season. In the 1990-1991 season, Disney expanded the idea even further, to create \"The Disney Afternoon\", a two-hour long syndicated block of half-hour cartoons, which premiered much later on September 10, 1990. \"DuckTales\" was one of the early flagship cartoons in the block.\n\nOn August 24, 1994 with Jeffrey Katzenberg's resignation, Richard Frank became head of newly formed Walt Disney Television and Telecommunications (WDTT), which included WDTA, from units of The Walt Disney Studios. Morrill was in charge of the first Aladdin DTV film launching Disney Video Premiere/Direct to Video unit.\n\nThree overseas Disney studios were set up to produce the company's animated television series. Disney Animation Australia was started in 1988. In 1989, the Brizzi brothers sold Brizzi Films to Disney Television Animation and was renamed Walt Disney Animation France. Also that year, Disney Animation Japan was started. Walt Disney Animation Canada was opened in January 1996 to tap Canada's animator pool and produce direct-to-video. As direct-to-video increased in importance, the overseas studios moved to making feature films.\n\nWDTT chair Frank left Disney in March 1995. With Krisel expecting to be promoted to head up WDTT but passed over, Krisel left WDTA at the end of his contract in January 1996. At the time the Walt Disney Company merged with Capital Cities/ABC, TV Animation was a unit of Walt Disney Television within the Walt Disney Television and Telecommunications group (WDTT). With the retirement of WDTT group president Dennis Hightower in April 1996 and ongoing post-merger reorganization, the unit (along with its Disney TV parent) was transferred to the Walt Disney Studios. By April 1998, Movietoons was folded in with Disney Video Premiere films and network TV specials of Disney TV Animation as Morrill was promoted to executive vice president over her existing unit of Disney Video Premiere films, network TV specials and Movietoons. At the same time, Barry Blumberg was elevated to executive vice president for network and syndicated animated TV series. Both reported to Disney Television president Charles Hirschhorn.\n\nIn the second quarter of 2000, due to weak financial performance, Disney Animation Canada was closed. David Stainton took charge of the company as executive vice president in January 2000 then as president in February 2002 under Thomas Schumacher.\n\nIn January 2003, Disney initiated a reorganization of its theatrical and animation units to improve resource usage and continued focus on new characters and franchise development. TV Animation was transferred to Disney Channels Worldwide. In this reorganization, the Disney MovieToons/Disney Video Premieres unit was transferred from Television Animation to Feature Animation. While Stainton took over as President of Disney Feature Animation from Schumacher, while Blumberg returned to DTA as president.\n\nIn July 2019, Disney TV Animation signed 17 creators and animators to overall deals. This follows a trend in kids programming started by Netflix.\n\nDisney Television Animation is headed by Eric Coleman, Senior Vice President, Original Series, he reports to Gary Marsh, president and chief creative officer of Disney Channels Worldwide.\n\nPrior presidents of Television Animation were Meredith Roberts and Barry Blumberg. Blumberg announced his resignation in November 2005.\n\nTom Ruzicka, now at Universal Animation Studios, was one of the original executives in charge of this fledgling group. Other animation executives that worked at Television Animation over the years were Barbara Ferro, Sharon Morrill, Bill Gross (former President of Jumbo Pictures, creators of \"Doug\"), Maia Mattise, Lenora Hume.\n\nFrom 1990 to January 2003, Disney Television Animation had a division, Disney MovieToons/Disney Video Premiere, that produced direct-to-video and theatrical feature films. This unit's operations were transferred to Walt Disney Feature Animation in 2003. See that article for that unit's films.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157620", "title": "Jonathan I. Schwartz", "text": "Jonathan I. Schwartz\n\nJonathan Ian Schwartz (born October 20, 1965) is an American businessman. He is currently president, and CEO of CareZone, a firm devoted to lowering the price of prescription drugs for those facing chronic illness.\n\nBefore founding CareZone, Schwartz had a nearly 15-year tenure with Sun Microsystems, culminating in his serving as CEO just prior to and during the company's battle for survival during the American financial crisis, and its subsequent acquisition by Oracle.\n\nHe was also the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Lighthouse Design, Ltd., a software company focused on the NeXTSTEP platform. Lighthouse was acquired by Sun in 1996.\n\nSchwartz was born in Southern California, and spent much of his childhood moving between the West Coast and Washington, D.C., ultimately graduating in 1983 from Bethesda-Chevy Chase High School in Bethesda, Maryland. With aspirations of becoming an architect, in 1983 he entered college at Carnegie Mellon University, and subsequently transferred to Wesleyan University in 1984. At Wesleyan, he ran short of funds and was preparing to drop out, when a friend suggested he apply for a scholarship, the Gilbert Clee Scholarship. He was awarded the scholarship, which funded the remainder of his university expenses. He received dual degrees in mathematics and economics.\n\nHe is of mixed origin, a fact he did not discover until late in his life. He is one quarter Indian and one quarter Welsh on his mother's side, and one quarter Hungarian, and one quarter Russian on his father's side.\n\nIn 1987, Schwartz was nearly killed while riding on the Amtrak \"Colonial\" train that crashed in Chase, Maryland. He is cited in interviews as saying the incident had a profound impact on his life.\n\nSchwartz started his career in 1987 at McKinsey & Company in New York City, focused on serving consumer products and financial services companies. In 1989, Schwartz left McKinsey and moved to Chevy Chase, Maryland, where he was a co-founder of Lighthouse Design, a company focused on building software for NeXT Computer, Inc. In the early 1990s, Lighthouse Design moved to San Mateo, California. Eventually, Schwartz became chief executive officer of Lighthouse.\n\nIn 1996, with NeXT failing in the marketplace and the internet beginning to explode globally, Lighthouse was acquired by Sun Microsystems.\n\nHe began his career at Sun working for Eric Schmidt, then the head of Sun's Laboratories. After Schmidt's departure for Novell, Schwartz became the director of product marketing for JavaSoft in 1997 and then transitioned through a series of vice president positions. In 2004, Schwartz was promoted to president and chief operating officer of Sun. He eventually succeeded Scott McNealy as CEO in April 2006.\n\nAs CEO of Sun, he dramatically amplified Sun's historically tepid embrace of open source and freely distributed software, attempting to drive adoption, in particular, of Sun's operating system, Solaris. Sun's historic decision to abandon Solaris on Intel compatible x86 computers, he stated in subsequent interviews and blog postings, had entirely undermined the hardware platforms on which Sun depended for revenue - hardware systems that ran only Sun's Solaris.\n\nSun's stock reached a high of $26.25 in 2007, a point just prior to which private equity investors KKR invested $750m dollars in a convertible debt financing. Toward the end of 2007, with nearly a third of its revenue derived from financial services companies, the global financial crisis hit Sun especially hard. With large customers going bankrupt across the world, Schwartz began looking for a buyer for Sun, apparently contravening the wishes of Sun's founder and chairman, Scott McNealy, and stirring resentment among employees.\n\nSchwartz ultimately finalized an acquisition, signing an agreement for the sale of the company to Oracle Corporation on April 20, 2009. Oracle had been Sun's largest ISV, and the price of its database was typically a multiple of the price of the Sun hardware on which it ran. Thus, Oracle had the ability, by modifying its pricing, to determine which hardware vendors were chosen. After the acquisition, Oracle dropped the pricing of its database on Sun hardware, in an attempt to boost its performance.\n\nAs CEO of Sun, Schwartz was known as one of the few Fortune 500 CEOs to use a blog for public communications. He was recognized for his efforts to bring greater transparency into the corporate world, and managed a public exchange with SEC Chairman Christopher Cox about the use of websites and blogs for the dissemination of financial information to meet Regulation Fair Disclosure. Schwartz generally believed the internet, and Sun's web presence on it, was a far more fair and efficient vehicle for the dissemination of Sun's financial information—as opposed to the expensive, and proprietary networks fostered by ratings agencies and the \"Wall Street Journal\".\n\nOn February 4, 2010, Schwartz resigned from his post as CEO of Sun. His resignation was a haiku on Twitter that read as follows: \"Financial crisis/Stalled too many customers/CEO no more.\"\n\nOn August 12, 2010, Schwartz was named to Taleo Corporation's board of directors. On September 9, 2010 he announced founding a new company, Picture of Health, which later became CareZone.\n\nOn April 7, 2011, Schwartz was named to Silver Spring Networks's board of directors. In May, 2012, he was appointed to Verifone's board of directors.\n\nSan Francisco-based CareZone officially launched February 15, 2012. CareZone enables users to create a password-protected, centralized repository of information related to the care of children, parents or loved ones. The site serves as a private place to get organized, and privately collaborate with the individuals (family and helpers) that typically surround a loved one being cared for Users can author journals, organize personal information, store documents, and share access to a tightly controlled group of individuals. Schwartz said he started CareZone for people like himself who must simultaneously care for children and parents but find social networking sites to be inappropriate (owing to lax privacy or business models predicated on selling private information), and insufficiently targeted toward the act of caring for family members. Schwartz developed CareZone with Apple and Microsoft veteran Walter Smith.\n\nSchwartz has been an outspoken evangelist for technology as a social utility—comparable to electricity or railroads—that creates an opportunity to drive economic, political and societal progress.\n\nHe has been a consistent advocate in the halls of the United States Congress as well as globally for regulations that protect the ability of individuals to maintain rights on par with corporations in the protection and promotion of privacy, free speech and intellectual property.\n\n\n \n \n"}
{"id": "2157623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157623", "title": "Jonathan Schwartz", "text": "Jonathan Schwartz\n\nJonathan Schwartz or Jon Schwartz may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157627", "title": "John Madden Football '93", "text": "John Madden Football '93\n\nJohn Madden Football '93 is a 1992 sports video game developed by Blue Sky Productions and Electronic Arts and published by EA Sports Network. Based on the sport of American football, the game puts the player in control of a football team in modes such as tournament play and sudden death. It was officially endorsed by John Madden.\n\nThe game's Sega Genesis version was developed by Blue Sky Productions, which was simultaneously creating \"\". \"John Madden Football '93\" adds new animations and features, and it allows players to play as and against famous teams such as the Oakland Raiders of 1976. Aside from \"Madden Football 64\", the game was the last in the \"Madden\" franchise to lack the NFL license, which was featured in \"Madden NFL '94\" onward.\n\nWith over one million units in sales, \"John Madden Football '93\" was a commercial success. Critics awarded the game high scores and praised its updated graphics; but several reviewers complained that little had changed since \"John Madden Football '92\". Royalties from the game funded the expansion of Blue Sky Productions, and the company's director, Paul Neurath, later commented that the size of these royalties led Electronic Arts to develop future \"Madden\" titles in-house. Nintendo Entertainment System and Game Boy ports of the game were licensed and developed by UBI Soft but were cancelled.\n\n\"John Madden Football '93\" is an adaptation of American football that takes place from an isometric perspective in a two-dimensional environment. The player begins each match by selecting such variables as the game mode, weather conditions and team(s). Game modes include pre-season, regular season, playoffs, and sudden death. In addition to the game's single-player mode, two-player competitive and cooperative modes are available. Unlike in prior games in the series, a coin toss at the beginning of every match determines which team will kick off, and which team will defend each goal.\n\nBefore every down, the player selects a personnel grouping, formation, play and, on defense, coverage shell from a menu. The game contains fifty-five offensive plays and seventy-one defensive plays, such as screen and play-action passes, blitzes and man-to-man defense. During a down, the player may control one team member at a time or allow the entire team to execute a play automatically. On offense, depending on the play, the player controls the quarterback, running back or kicker. After a pass, control automatically changes to the ball receiver. On defense, the player may at any time switch control between any members of the team. Instant replay is available to review plays.\n\nNew features in \"John Madden Football '93\" include no-huddle offense, overturning certain calls made by referees, taunting, stumbling, head-butting and one-handed catches. As with its predecessors, the game features updated statistics for the twenty-eight NFL teams in the game, based on their performance in the previous season. In addition to these teams, eight famous team line-ups, such as the Oakland Raiders of 1976 and the Dallas Cowboys of 1977, are available. An \"All-Madden Greats\" team is compiled from the best players in the history of the sport and an \"All-Madden\" team is compiled of recent standout players. No official player or team names, colors, or stadium names are used. A rental-only version of the game, \"John Madden Football: Championship Edition\", uses only \"championship caliber\" line-ups from the 1966-1991 era. Although it still lacks official names, this version features correct team colors.\n\n\"John Madden Football '93\" was developed for the Sega Genesis by Blue Sky Productions (credited as \"Looking Glass Technology\"), which was simultaneously working on \"\". The game was not a port, but was rather an original work by the company. They were approached by Electronic Arts soon after production on \"Ultima Underworld\" began, an event that company head Paul Neurath later attributed to contacts he had within the publisher, thanks to his involvement with the Electronic Arts project \"Chuck Yeager's Advanced Flight Trainer\". Neurath said that Electronic Arts was dissatisfied with the work that another studio had been doing on \"John Madden Football '93\", and that the publisher was \"scrambling to find a [replacement] team\" to meet the game's rapidly approaching deadline. Blue Sky received the source code of \"John Madden Football '92\" and had to develop a sequel in five months. Neurath later said that development was \"part out-of-house and part in-house\". The game's visuals were made by Doug Wike, who also created graphics for \"Ultima Underworld\". In 1991, Neurath contracted the outside programmer Mark Lesser, who had previously worked on \"Mean 18\", to develop the game's technical aspects. According to Lesser, this was necessary because none of Blue Sky's employees had experience programming for the Sega Genesis.\n\nNeurath believed that Blue Sky introduced \"some nice improvements\" to the franchise. A preview in \"Mega\" noted that the game had \"a lot of added animation\" compared to its predecessors. A writer for \"Mega Drive Advanced Gaming\" believed that \"the most obvious addition is the digitised speech\", which did not appear in the game's Super NES version. In its November 1992 issue, \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" estimated that the game was \"100% complete\". The game's Genesis and SNES versions were released at the same time. As with earlier \"John Madden Football\" titles, \"John Madden Football '93\" lacks the NFL license, which prevented the inclusion of official teams, colors, player names and stadiums. Sega's competing title, the Joe Montana-endorsed \"NFL Sports Talk Football '93\", had received the license that year.\n\n\"John Madden Football '93\" was a commercial success, with over one million copies sold. It has been cited as the highest-selling game developed by Looking Glass Studios, and Neurath later called it \"one of the most successful games I've ever worked on\". Paul Mellerick of \"Mega\" commented that \"the only noticeable difference between [\"John Madden Football '93\"] and its two predecessors is the animation\". He wrote that this new animation \"makes the game incredibly good to look at\" and that new motions like stumbling increase the game's difficulty. Although he believed that the \"two-player mode is just as exciting as ever\", he was disappointed by the lack of a full-season mode, which he called \"unforgivable\" in light of this feature's appearance in Sega's \"NFL Sports Talk Football '93\". He concluded that \"John Madden Football '93\" was \"the best game the Mega Drive has to offer\", but he wrote, \"If you own \"John Madden Football '92\", or even the original \"John Madden American Football\" for that matter, then you should ignore this game completely\".\n\nA writer for \"GamePro\" noted that \"John Madden Football '93\" was \"at first glance\" largely identical to its predecessor; but he believed that, \"once you get down to serious business, you'll notice a wealth of All-Star enhancements\". He wrote that the \"game play is now faster and smoother\", and that \"the graphics are sharper, more detailed, and even better animated\". He believed that \"Electronic Arts has [...] made the best even better\", and he concluded, \"\"John Madden Football '93\" is even more fun to play than \"Madden '92\"\". The staff of \"Mean Machines Sega\" called the game \"hopelessly redundant\" and \"very, very disappoint[ing]\", and they believed that the \"John Madden Football\" series was \"on its last legs\". They considered the game to be arguably worse than its predecessors, largely because of framerate problems. The reviewers concluded that it was \"not a bad game at all\", but they suggested that readers buy \"the slightly better \"John Madden Football '92\" if [they are] after the definitive American Football game\".\n\nReviewing the SNES version of \"John Madden Football '93\", a \"GamePro\" writer believed that it was \"a major improvement\" over the previous SNES \"John Madden Football\" title. He wrote that the game's visuals were the biggest leap, particularly after the \"slow and chunky\" graphics of the earlier release. He enjoyed its sound effects, but he noted the lack of voice clips present in the Genesis version. He concluded that the series was now roughly even across the two consoles, and he wrote that the game was \"a strong candidate for SNES Sports Cart of the Year\". A writer for \"Nintendo Power\" wrote, \"\"Madden '93\" is easy to play and has the feel of the real game\". He believed that the most noticeable additions were the new teams and \"new play options\", although he found it \"awkward\" to select plays. He finished, \"Really the only thing missing is an option to play an entire season\". Carl Rowley of \"N-Force\" called the visuals \"sharper than ever\" and believed that the character sprites were \"small but well defined\". He found that the game played \"brilliantly\", and he praised the instant replay feature as \"superb\" and \"amazing\". He wrote that his \"only niggle is the lack of sampled speech\", which he considered to be \"a bit of a let down\". Finishing his review, Rowley wrote that the game was the \"best American football game available\".\n\nAfter the game's development concluded, programmer Mark Lesser was contracted by Electronic Arts to work on \"NHL '94\", a series that he remained on \"for many years\". Neurath said that the royalties Blue Sky received from \"John Madden Football '93\" \"were quite substantial\", and that \"it was really the royalties of \"Madden\" more than anything else [...] that allowed us to grow the [company]\". Neurath believed that the size of these royalties led Electronic Arts to develop future \"Madden\" games in-house, in order to maximize profit. Aside from \"Madden Football 64\", \"John Madden Football '93\" was the last game in the \"Madden\" franchise to lack the NFL license, which the series first obtained with \"Madden NFL '94\". In 2012, Michael Rundle wrote in \"The Huffington Post\" that \"John Madden Football '93\" \"really set the bar\" for the franchise, and he believed that its gameplay was superior to that of \"Madden NFL 13\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2157633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157633", "title": "Harold Ridley (Jesuit)", "text": "Harold Ridley (Jesuit)\n\nHarold Edward \"Hap\" Ridley SJ (June 20, 1939 – January 18, 2005) was the 23rd President of Loyola College in Maryland from July 1, 1994 until his death.\n\nBorn in Jersey City, New Jersey he joined the Jesuits in 1956, and was ordained as a Roman Catholic priest in 1969. Ridley was educated at Fordham University, Woodstock College and the Union Theological Seminary. He earned his Ph.D. in English literature from New York University.\n\nBefore becoming president of Loyola, Fr. Ridley taught at Regis High School in New York City from 1963 to 1966, and then at the Maryland Institute College of Art from 1967 to 1968. After MICA, taught at Le Moyne College for more than 20 years, where he also served as English Department Chair and Chief Academic Officer.\n\nHe took over as president of Loyola following the death of long-time president Fr. Joseph A. Sellinger, SJ.\n\nFr. Ridley oversaw a period of rampant expansion for Loyola. During his tenure, annual admission applications rose from 4,500 to over 7,000. The facilities of the college were strengthened as well, with graduate centers opening in Columbia and Timonium, the construction of the Sellinger School of Business and Management, the renovation of Maryland Hall, and the opening of the Fitness and Aquatic Center.\n\nHe died suddenly the night of January 18, 2005. He was survived by his mother, Mrs. Harold Ridley, his sister Judy and brother John. Dr. David Haddad served as interim president until the appointment of Fr. Brian F. Linnane, SJ as president.\n\nFr. Ridley served on the boards of the College of the Holy Cross, Crown Central Petroleum, the Institute for Christian & Jewish Studies, Fordham University, St. Peter’s College, the University of Scranton, Loyola Blakefield, the American Council on Education, and the NCAA President’s Commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157658", "title": "Francis Wayland", "text": "Francis Wayland\n\nFrancis Wayland (March 11, 1796 – September 30, 1865), American Baptist educator and economist, was born in New York City, New York. He was president of Brown University and pastor of the First Baptist Church in America in Providence, Rhode Island. In Washington, D.C., Wayland Seminary was established in 1867, primarily to educate former slaves, and was named in his honor. (In 1899, Wayland Seminary merged with another school to become the current Virginia Union University, at Richmond, Virginia.)\n\nFrancis Wayland's father was an Englishman of the same name, who was also a Baptist pastor. Born in New York City in 1796, Wayland graduated from Union College in 1813 and studied medicine in Troy, under Dr. Ely Burritt. Dr. Burritt, a son of the Rev. Blackleach Burritt, graduated from Williams College, class of 1800 and was licensed to practice medicine at Troy, New York, on March 29, 1802, and quickly gained recognition for his medical skills. Dr. Wayland said the following about his former teacher: \"Dr. Ely Burritt was a man of remarkable logical powers of enthusiastic love of his profession, and of great and deserved confidence in his own judgment. He stood at the head of his profession in Troy, and in the neighboring region, and was a person of high moral character.\" Dr. Wayland also studied medicine in New York City, but in 1816 entered Andover Theological Seminary, where he was greatly influenced by Moses Stuart. He was too poor to conclude his course in theology, and in 1817-1821 was a tutor at Union College, to which, after five years as pastor of the First Baptist Church of Boston, he returned in 1826 as professor of natural philosophy.\n\nHe was one of the founders of Newton Theological Institution in 1825.\n\nHe was an early advocate of the temperance and anti-slavery causes, for many years was \"inspector of the state prison and Providence county jail,\" president of the Prison Discipline Society, and active in prison reform and local charities. He was one of the \"law and order\" leaders during the \"Dorr Rebellion\" of 1842, and was called \"the first citizen of Rhode Island.\"\n\nOne of the individuals that he supported, trained and encouraged was Leonard Black, author of \"The Life and Sufferings of Leonard Black, a Fugitive from Slavery\" who became a Baptist minister.\n\nWayland worked hard to prevent the local Baptist denominations from splitting into pro-slavery and anti-slavery factions, but ultimately failed in this attempt.\n\nWayland was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1851.\n\nIn 1827 he became president of Brown University. In the twenty-eight years of his administration he gradually built up the college, improving academic discipline, formed a library and gave scientific studies a more prominent place. He also worked for higher educational ideals outside the college, writing text-books on ethics and economics, and promoting the free school system of Rhode Island and especially (1828) of Providence. His \"Thoughts on the Present Collegiate System in the United States\" (1842) and his \"Report to the Corporation of Brown University\" of 1850 pointed the way to educational reforms, particularly the introduction of industrial courses, which were only partially adopted in his lifetime.\n\nWayland's attempts to reform Brown's medical school were met with antagonism and resistance from the school's faculty and staff to the point where they resigned, and the medical program was eliminated.\n\nWayland was vividly remembered by members of the Brown community, including Charles T. Congdon and James B. Angell, who are quoted in the \"Encyclopedia Brunoniana\".\n\nCharles T. Congdon wrote in his \"Reminiscences\":\n\nHe was disobeyed with fear and trembling, and the boldest did not care to encounter his frown. He was majestic in manner, and could assume, if he pleased, a Rhadamanthine severity. It was a calamity to be called into that awful presence; and no student, of whatever character, ever made the least pretence of not being frightened at the summons. ... However loosely our tongues might wag, we thoroughly respected and even reverenced the president; and upon public occasions, when he put on his academic gown and cap, we were rather proud of his imposing appearance. ... In his later days, I have been told he exhibited marked urbanity and sweetness of disposition. Certainly there were small traces of either when any undergraduate was detected in an act of meanness or a flagrant violation of the university statutes. He had a heavy foot for a student’s door when it was not promptly opened after his official knock.\n\nPresident of the University of Michigan James B. Angell Class of 1849, who wrote in \"Memories of Brown\":\n\nThe discipline of the college was wholly in his hands. In administering it he was stern, at times imperious. But no graduate of his time ever failed to gain from him higher ideals of duty or lasting impulses to a noble and strenuous life. He said so many wise things to us and uttered them in so pithy and sententious a style that one could never forget them. I presume that my experience is like that of others, when I say that hardly a week of my life has passed in which I have not recalled some of his apt sayings and to my great advantage. Is there any better proof than that of the power of a teacher over his pupils?\nHe resigned the presidency of Brown in 1855, and served from 1857 to 1858 as pastor of the historic First Baptist Church in America, in Providence.\nWayland was a long time vocal advocate for libraries. His donation to the town of Wayland, Massachusetts, in 1851 for the establishment of a public library was the catalyst for legislation in Massachusetts allowing towns to establish libraries.\n\nBesides several volumes of sermons and addresses and the volumes already mentioned, he published:\n\nOther works:\n\nThe town of Wayland, Massachusetts was named in his honor. Wayland Seminary in Washington D.C., a predecessor of Virginia Union University was named for him. The Wayland Day lectures at Keio University in Tokyo, Japan, were named in honor of Wayland, whose writings had a lasting effect on the founder of the oldest university in Japan.\n\nHis son Francis Wayland III (1826-1904) was lieutenant-governor of Connecticut from 1869–1870, and became a professor and Dean of the Yale Law School.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157669", "title": "Traditional Thai house", "text": "Traditional Thai house\n\nThe traditional Thai house (, , lit. \"Thai house\") is a loose collection of vernacular architectural styles employed throughout the different regions of Thailand. Thai houses usually feature a bamboo or wooden structure, raised on stilts and topped with a steep gabled roof. The houses from each of Thailand's regions have distinctive styles, which reflect the people's living style, including social and cultural beliefs or religious customs and occupations.\nUsing renewable natural materials including timber and bamboo, the dwellings are often built without the use of metal including nails. Instead pre-cut holes and grooves are used to fit the timber elements into one another, effectively making it a 'prefabricated house'. \nThai stilt houses in the central region are divided into five types. The first type is the single house, which is the stilt house for a single family and includes bedroom and kitchen. The second type is a group house, which is the stilt house that has at least two buildings in the same area. The next type is the official house or stilt house for government officer. “Pathway store” and “waterfront” store stilt houses are the type of stilt houses that are built for trading. The final type is the raft house which is built near the coast or a river.\n\nThe structure of the stilt house in the central region is the most common and of very simple style. The high gable roof which in its center has a shape like the halo of the sun is the most outstanding structure, where there is a space for cooking smoke to flow out. The long overhanging eaves can protect from sun or rain. The wide terrace outside the house is suitable for summer use. In addition, a more important structure is the high open space under the house which is supported by many poles. This space is the area for storage of tools or agricultural equipment, parking, eating meals and other activities.\n\n\nThe stilt houses in this region were built depending on duration of stay. The first type is a temporary house for farmers, which is built on a platform that was reconstructed from the old wood in harvest season. The durability of this house is only about 2–3 years and is a simple structure that can pulled down easily. The four sides of the walls were open and the walls were roughly built with bamboo. The \"semi permanent house\" has additional part to a main house building. The additional part has three styles: a style with a roof overlapping a rice storage building, a style which is separated from the main house with all stilts buried into the soil and a style which is built with a middle pole which stops at the beam and is not attached to the soil. The last type is a \"permanent house\", which has three styles: overlap house, twin style house, and single house. All stilt houses had a few narrow windows and only one door in the front, then the inside was darker than the other stilt houses. There were some similar structures to the stilt houses in the northern region, such as a gabled roof with the sun halo shape and roof tiles made of baked clay.\n\nThere are three types of stilt houses in northern Thailand. Firstly, RUEN KHRUNG PHOOK or RUEN MAI BUA (meeting house with rope), which is the oldest type, originated in the countryside. The structures are composed of a roof woven from grasses, floors and walls made with bamboo tied with rope (PHOOK). Poles and beams are the base structure and are made with hard wood. The second type is a “real wood house” and the strongest stilt houses. This type has two styles of roof. KALEA house, an ancient style of LAN-NA people which is decorated by a cross of wood in a V or X shape at the top front. The other roof type is known as “wind spaces house” and the structure was influenced from the central region with a high roof with the halo of the sun in the middle of a gabled roof and the roof tiles are made from baked clay in a fish scale pattern. The last type is a “middle period house” from the period of RAMA 5, and was improved from a basic LAN-NA house, with more complicated layers on the roof and more holes in the walls to make the doors and windows. It is decorated by using stained wood, an influence from western countries that traded with Thailand at that time, such as France or England.\n\n\nThere are three types of southern stilt houses, RUEN KHRUENG PHOOK (Meeting house with rope), plank house and masonry house. The defining characteristics of the stilt houses of the southern region are the structure of the roof and the stilts on cement poles. The weather of the south of Thailand always rainy with many typhoons, so the house must be stronger than in the other regions. The structure of the southern stilt house is also unique. The walls are made from layers of wood boards, the windows are narrow, using mortise and tension joint instead of the nails, and it has a lower gable roof than other regions. There are three roof styles that were influenced by other countries. Firstly, the gable roof follows the basic style. The tiles are made of grass, baked clay, or rhomboid tiles depend on the status of the owner. The roof will be decorated with carved wood if the owner is of high status. The second style, PANYA or LIMA roof was influenced by Indonesian and Malaysian design. This roof is very strong against storms. The slopes of the roof are trapezoidal. The last type is a Brann’s roof or Manila roof . This roof was integrated from gable roof and PANYA roof. This roof is lower than the other type, the top part is a gable roof and the bottom part is a PANYA roof, the trapezoidal roof supports the top part. Many Muslims in the south of Thailand use Manila roof and the top of the roofs is decorated with a cylinder of carved wood.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157672", "title": "Siskiyou Trail", "text": "Siskiyou Trail\n\nThe Siskiyou Trail stretched from California's Central Valley to Oregon's Willamette Valley; modern-day Interstate 5 follows this pioneer path. Originally based on existing Native American foot trails winding their way through river valleys, the Siskiyou Trail provided the shortest practical travel path between early settlements in California and Oregon.\n\nThe earliest European or American visitors along the Siskiyou Trail were likely hunters and trappers connected with the Hudson's Bay Company (HBC) who, in the 1820s, began to travel the rivers of Southern Oregon and Northern California in search of fur and pelts.\n\nThe HBC had established itself on the Columbia River, and built Fort Vancouver, its regional headquarters in 1824. HBC parties began to explore south toward California in 1825. Alexander McLeod led exploration and trapping parties south beginning in 1826, reaching the Klamath River in 1827, and the Sacramento River in 1828. In 1829 he led the first HBC trapping expedition to the Sacramento Valley, which allowed later expeditions to reach as far south as French Camp near today's Stockton.\n\nMcLeod's exploring and trapping expeditions essentially established the Siskiyou Trail, linking Fort Vancouver with the Sacramento Valley. At first it was known by names such as the California Brigade Trail and the Southern Party Trail.\n\nMcLeod and other members of his parties reported that the Native Americans south of the Umpqua River, along the Klamath and Siuslaw Rivers, had never seen white men before. Although the 42nd parallel (today the boundary between California and Oregon) marked the northern border of Mexican California, the Mexicans knew little about the interior and the HBC trappers ranged south at will.\n\nOther HBC trappers who made early use of the Siskiyou Trail include Peter Skene Ogden and Michel Laframboise.\n\nIn 1834, Ewing Young brought a herd of horses and mules over the Siskiyou Trail from missions in California for sale at British and American settlements in Oregon. Although this initial effort was met with suspicion by Hudson's Bay Company officials in Oregon, Young returned to California in 1837, where he purchased 700 head of cattle which he drove over the Siskiyou Trail to Oregon. This monumental task, requiring nearly three months, helped widen and establish the trail thereby solidifying the new American settlements in Oregon.\n\nIn 1841, an overland party of the United States Exploring Expedition came down the Siskiyou Trail with the first scientists and cartographers in the region.\n\nThe California Gold Rush, beginning in 1848, ushered in dramatically increased use of the Siskiyou Trail. The discovery of gold in Siskiyou County in 1851, and especially at Yreka, California, brought thousands more miners along the trail in search of riches. The terrain was so rugged over the mountains of the trail that travel was restricted to mule trains and horses. Early travelers were able to travel perhaps in a day, stopping at wayside inns and hostels, such as at Portuguese Flat, Upper Soda Springs and Sisson, in Northern California. It was not until the 1860s that toll roads usable by stagecoaches were finally carved through the mountains of Northern California, permitting uninterrupted stagecoach travel for the length of the Siskiyou Trail.\n\nThe first telegraph line connected early towns along the trail in 1864. Development accelerated with the arrival of the Central Pacific Railroad track completed in 1887, which followed the path of the Siskiyou Trail.\n\nThe historic route of the Siskiyou Trail extended from the Columbia District headquarters of the Hudson's Bay Company, at Fort Vancouver in southern Washington, to the San Francisco Bay Area. In California the trail went through or near modern-day Redding, Dunsmuir and Yreka. In Oregon the route went through or near modern-day Ashland, Grants Pass, Roseburg, Eugene, Salem and Portland.\n\nThe trail used the valleys of the Willamette, Umpqua, Rogue, Klamath, Shasta and Sacramento rivers to make the connection between Oregon and California, and to traverse the rugged mountains of Northern California and Southern Oregon (Siskiyou Mountains). The trail crested at the Siskiyou Summit (elevation ) just north of the Oregon-California border, and went past or near landmarks such as Mount Shasta, Upper Soda Springs, Castle Crags and Sutter Buttes.\n\nBetween 1869 and 1887, the Oregon & California Railroad Company built a railroad along this route, crossing Siskiyou Summit in 1887. In the mid-1910s, the pioneering Pacific Highway, later numbered as U.S. Highway 99, provided the first easy automobile access along the path of the trail. Interstate 5 was built in the 1960s along the route of the original 1820s Siskiyou Trail. About 4 miles (7 km) north of the California border, and just south of Ashland, Oregon, the highway crosses Siskiyou Summit, the highest point on I-5 (elevation ). The railroad and interstate highway deviate from the original trail in small ways according to the needs and engineering available to their builders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157687", "title": "Warrant of attorney", "text": "Warrant of attorney\n\nIn prior English law, a warrant of attorney was a security authorizing a solicitor to collect a debt on behalf of a creditor. It is now subsumed in the general power of attorney.\n\nA warrant of attorney was a security for money in the form of an authority to a solicitor named by a creditor, empowering him to sign judgment in an action against the debtor for the sum due, with a \"defeasance\"—a clause that the warrant shall not be put into force in case of due payment of the money secured. It was often used as a collateral security, either for the payment of an annuity or with mortgages, in order that the mortgagee, by entering up judgment, might obtain priority in the administration of the assets of the mortgagor. The Debtors Act 1869 contained various provisions for making known to the debtor the extent of the liability incurred by him, among others that the warrant must be executed in the presence of a solicitor named by the debtor, and that it and the defeasance must be written on the same paper. A warrant of attorney was required to be duly stamped, generally as a mortgage, and to be registered as a judgment in the central office of the Supreme Court.\n"}
{"id": "2157707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157707", "title": "Robert Waithman", "text": "Robert Waithman\n\nRobert Waithman (1764 – 6 February 1833) was a master draper who in later life was a British politician; an economic progressive Liberal from an industrial background and a political reformist. He became an alderman of the Corporation of London who elected him as Lord Mayor of London for a standard tenure, one ceremonial year.\n\nWaithman was born at Wrexham, to John Waithman, a joiner at the Bersham Ironworks, and Mary (née Roberts).\n\nAfter being employed for some time in a London linen draper's, he opened, about 1786, a draper's shop of his own, and made a considerable fortune. On 14 July 1787 he married Mary Davis, his cousin. In 1818 he was returned to Parliament, as a liberal, for the City of London. He lost his seat at the election of 1820, but regained it in 1826, and retained it till his death, taking part vigorously in the parliamentary debates, and strenuously supporting reform.\nIn 1820 he was appointed Sheriff of the City of London and in 1823 elected Lord Mayor of London. Waithman died in London on 6 February 1833. An obelisk erected by his friends in Ludgate Circus, London, adjoining the site of his first shop, commemorated his memory. The obelisk today forms the main monument in Salisbury Square.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157712", "title": "Naomi Nari Nam", "text": "Naomi Nari Nam\n\nNaomi Nari Nam (born July 6, 1985) is an American figure skater who competed in both single skating and pair skating. As a single skater, she was the 1999 U.S. national silver medalist. As a pair skater, she was the 2006 Skate America bronze medalist and 2007 U.S. national bronze medalist with Themistocles Leftheris.\n\nNaomi Nari Nam was born July 6, 1985, in Anaheim, California. She is Korean American and fluent in Korean. She married Tyler Poor on August 2, 2010, in Orange County, California. The couple's son, Aiden Zachary Poor, was born in March 2011, and their daughter, Bella Tatum Poor, on April 16, 2013.\n\nNam won the novice ladies' title at the 1997 U.S. Championships. She was awarded the pewter medal on the junior level at the 1998 U.S. Championships.\n\nCompeting on the senior level, Nam won the silver medal at the 1999 U.S. Championships, behind Michelle Kwan. She subsequently received endorsements in South Korea and appeared on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\". As Nam did not meet the ISU's age criteria for the 1999 World Championships, 4th-ranked U.S. lady Sarah Hughes was sent in her stead. Although Hughes was also not old enough, she had an exemption due to her medal at the 1999 World Junior Championships. Nam had not competed at Junior Worlds because that season's competition had taken place prior to the U.S. Championships.\n\nNam competed in the 1999–2000 ISU Junior Grand Prix (JGP) series, winning a silver medal in Canada and placing 7th in Japan. She did not qualify for the JGP Final. At the 2000 U.S. Championships, she placed 8th and was not sent to the 2000 World Junior Championships.\n\nJohn Nicks coached her in Costa Mesa, California. Signs of tendonitis in her hip began appearing in July 2000; a few months later, she heard a pop as she practiced a triple Lutz jump and was subsequently diagnosed with a fracture in her growth plate. After healing, she went to the 2001 U.S. Championships but had to withdrew due to hip pain which re-surfaced a day before the competition. After receiving a diagnosis of torn cartilage in her hip joint, she underwent surgery at Holy Cross Hospital in Florida.\n\nIn 2003, Nam won the Southwest Pacific Regional title but placed 5th at the Pacific Coast Sectionals, which meant that she did not qualify for the 2004 U.S. Championships.\n\nTwo weeks after deciding to switch to pair skating, Nam had a try out with Themi Leftheris, in April 2005. After winning both Regionals and Pacific Coast Sectionals, the pair placed 5th at the 2006 U.S. Championships.\nIn the 2006–07 season, Nam and Leftheris won the bronze medal at their Grand Prix assignment, 2006 Skate America. They won the bronze medal at the 2007 U.S. Championships behind Rena Inoue / John Baldwin and Brooke Castile / Benjamin Okolski. They ranked 6th at the 2007 Four Continents Championships.\n\nOn August 24, 2007, Nam underwent surgery to remove a bone spur and to repair torn cartilage in her right hip. She was on crutches for eight weeks and returned to the ice on October 19. As a result, Nam/Leftheris withdrew from their Grand Prix assignments, 2007 Skate America and 2007 Cup of China. They placed 7th at the 2008 U.S. Championships. Nam announced her retirement from competitive skating on October 10, 2008, citing her recurrent hip injury.\n\nNam/Leftheris were coached by Peter Oppegard and Karen Kwan-Oppegard at the EastWest Ice Palace in Artesia, California.\n\n\"GP: Grand Prix; JGP: Junior Grand Prix\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2157713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157713", "title": "Primidone", "text": "Primidone\n\nPrimidone, sold under various brand names, is a medication used to treat seizures including partial and generalized seizures. It may also be used for essential tremors. The dose may be based on levels measured in the blood. It is taken by mouth.\nCommon side effects include sleepiness, poor coordination, nausea, and loss of appetite. Severe side effects may include suicide, psychosis, a lack of blood cells. Use during pregnancy may result in harm to the baby. Primidone is an anticonvulsant of the barbiturate class. How it works is not entirely clear.\nPrimidone was approved for medical use in the United States in 1954. It is available as a generic medication. A month supply in the United Kingdom costs the NHS about 68.40 £ as of 2019. In the United States the wholesale cost of this amount is about US$13.20. In 2017, it was the 238th most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than two million prescriptions.\n\nLicensed for generalized tonic-clonic and complex partial seizures in the United Kingdom. In the United States, primidone is approved for adjunctive (in combination with other drugs) and monotherapy (by itself) use in generalized tonic-clonic seizures, simple partial seizures, and complex partial seizures, and myoclonic seizures. In juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME), it is a second-line therapy, reserved for when the valproates or lamotrigine do not work and when other second-line therapies—acetazolamide work either.\n\nOpen-label case series have suggested that primidone is effective in the treatment of epilepsy. Primidone has been compared to phenytoin, phenobarbital, mephobarbital, ethotoin, metharbital, and mephenytoin. In adult comparison trials, primidone has been found to be just as effective.\n\nPrimidone is considered to be a first-line therapy for essential tremor along with propranolol. In terms of tremor amplitude reduction, it is just as effective as propranolol, reducing it by 50%. Both drugs are well studied for this condition, unlike other therapies, and are recommended for initial treatment. 25 mg/day (low-dose therapy) is just as good as 75 mg/day (high-dose therapy).\n\nPrimidone is not the only anticonvulsant used for essential tremor; the others include topiramate and gabapentin. Other pharmacological agents include alprazolam, clonazepam, atenolol, sotalol, nadolol, clozapine, nimodipine, and botulinum toxin A. Many of these drugs were less effective (according to Table 1), but a few were not. Only propranolol has been compared to primidone in a clinical trial.\n\nIn 1965, Monroe and Wise reported using primidone along with a phenothiazine derivative antipsychotic and chlordiazepoxide in treatment-resistant psychosis. What is known is that ten years later, Monroe went on to publish the results of a meta-analysis of two controlled clinical trials on people displaying out-of-character and situationally inappropriate aggression, who had abnormal EEG readings, and who responded poorly to antipsychotics; one of the studies was specifically mentioned as involving psychosis patients. When they were given various anticonvulsants not only did their EEGs improve, but so did the aggression.\n\nIn March 1993, S.G. Hayes of the University of Southern California School of Medicine reported that nine out of twenty-seven people (33%) with either treatment-resistant depression or treatment-resistant bipolar disorder had a permanent positive response to primidone. A plurality of subjects were also given methylphenobarbital in addition to or instead of primidone.\n\nPrimidone can cause drowsiness, listlessness, ataxia, visual disturbances, nystagmus, headache, and dizziness. These side effects are the most common, occurring in more than 1% of users. Transient nausea and vomiting are also common side effects.\nDupuytren's contracture, a disease of the fasciae in the palm and fingers that permanently bends the fingers (usually the little and ring fingers) toward the palm, was first noted to be highly prevalent in epileptic people in 1941 by a Dr. Lund, fourteen years before primidone was on the market. Lund also noted that it was equally prevalent in individuals with idiopathic and symptomatic epilepsy and that the severity of the epilepsy did not matter. However, only one quarter of the women were affected vs. half of the men. Thirty-five years later, Critcheley et al. reported a correlation between how long a patient had had epilepsy and his or her chance of getting Dupuytren's contracture. They suspected that this was due to phenobarbital therapy, and that the phenobarbital was stimulating peripheral tissue growth factors. Dupuytren's contracture is almost exclusively found in Caucasians, especially those of Viking descent, and highest rates are reported in Northern Scotland, Norway, Iceland, and Australia. It has also been associated with alcoholism, heavy smoking, diabetes mellitus, physical trauma (either penetrating in nature or due to manual labor), tuberculosis, and HIV. People with rheumatoid arthritis are less likely to get this, and Drs. Hart and Hooper speculate that this is also true of gout due to the use of allopurinol This is the only susceptibility factor that is generally agreed upon. Anticonvulsants do not seem to increase the incidence of Dupuytren's contracture in non-whites.\n\nPrimidone has other cardiovascular effects in beyond shortening the QT interval. Both it and phenobarbital are associated with elevated serum levels (both fasting and six hours after methionine loading) of homocysteine, an amino acid derived from methionine. This is almost certainly related to the low folate levels reported in primidone users. Elevated levels of homocysteine have been linked to coronary heart disease. In 1985, both drugs were also reported to increase serum levels of high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, total cholesterol, and apolipoproteins A and B.\n\nIt was first reported to exacerbate hepatic porphyria in 1975. In 1981, it was shown that phenobarbital, one of primidone's metabolites, only induced a significant porphyrin at high concentrations \"in vitro\". It can also cause elevations in hepatic enzymes such as gamma-glutamyl transferase and alkaline phosphatase.\n\nLess than 1% of primidone users will experience a rash. Compared to carbamazepine, lamotrigine, and phenytoin, this is very low. The rate is comparable to that of felbamate, vigabatrin, and topiramate. Primidone also causes exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens–Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.\nPrimidone, along with phenytoin and phenobarbital, is one of the anticonvulsants most heavily associated with bone diseases such as osteoporosis, osteopenia (which can precede osteoporosis), osteomalacia and fractures. The populations usually said to be most at risk are institutionalized people, postmenopausal women, older men, people taking more than one anticonvulsant, and children, who are also at risk of rickets. However, it has been suggested that bone demineralization is most pronounced in young people (25–44 years of age) and one 1987 study of institutionalized people found that the rate of osteomalacia in the ones taking anticonvulsants—one out of nineteen individuals taking an anticonvulsant (vs. none among the thirty-seven people taking none) —was similar to that expected in elderly people. The authors speculated that this was due to improvements in diet, sun exposure and exercise in response to earlier findings, and/or that this was because it was sunnier in London than in the Northern European countries which had earlier reported this effect. In any case, the use of more than one anticonvulsant has been associated with an increased prevalence of bone disease in institutionalized epilepsy patients versus institutionalized people who did not have epilepsy. Likewise, postmenopausal women taking anticonvulsants have a greater risk of fracture than their drug-naive counterparts.\n\nAnticonvulsants affect the bones in many ways. They cause hypophosphatemia, hypocalcemia, low Vitamin D levels, and increased parathyroid hormone. Anticonvulsants also contribute to the increased rate of fractures by causing somnolence, ataxia, and tremor which would cause gait disturbance, further increasing the risk of fractures on top of the increase due to seizures and the restrictions on activity placed on epileptic people.Increased fracture rate has also been reported for carbamazepine, valproate and clonazepam. The risk of fractures is higher for people taking enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants than for people taking non-enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants. In addition to all of the above, primidone can cause arthralgia.\n\nGranulocytopenia, agranulocytosis, and red-cell hypoplasia and aplasia, and megaloblastic anemia are rarely associated with the use of primidone. Megaloblastic anemia is actually a group of related disorders with different causes that share morphological characteristics—enlarged red blood cells with abnormally high nuclear-cytoplasmic ratios resulting from delayed maturation of nuclei combined with normal maturation of cytoplasm, into abnormal megakaryocytes and sometimes neutrophils; regardless of etiology, all of the megaloblastic anemias involve impaired DNA replication. The anticonvulsant users who get this also tend to eat monotonous diets devoid of fruits and vegetables.\n\nThis antagonistic effect is not due to the inhibition of dihydrofolate reductase, the enzyme responsible for the reduction of dihydrofolic acid to tetrahydrofolic acid, but rather to defective folate metabolism.\n\nIn addition to increasing the risk of megaloblastic anemia, primidone, like other older anticonvulsants also increases the risk of neural tube defects, and like other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, it increases the likelihood of cardiovascular defects, and cleft lip without cleft palate. Epileptic women are generally advised to take folic acid, but there is conflicting evidence regarding the effectiveness of vitamin supplementation in the prevention of such defects.\n\nAdditionally, a coagulation defect resembling Vitamin K deficiency has been observed in newborns of mothers taking primidone. Because of this, primidone is a Category D medication.\n\nPrimidone, like phenobarbital and the benzodiazepines, can also cause sedation in the newborn and also withdrawal within the first few days of life; phenobarbital is the most likely out of all of them to do that.\n\nIn May 2005, Dr. M. Lopez-Gomez's team reported an association between the use of primidone and depression in epilepsy patients; this same study reported that inadequate seizure control, posttraumatic epilepsy, and polytherapy were also risk factors. Polytherapy was also associated with poor seizure control. Out of all of the risk factors, usage of primidone and inadequate seizure control were the greatest; with ORs of 4.089 and 3.084, respectively. They had been looking for factors associated with depression in epilepsy patients. Schaffer et al. 1999 reported that one of their treatment failures, a 45-year-old woman taking 50 mg a day along with lithium 600 mg/day, clozapine 12.5 mg/day, trazodone 50 mg/day, and alprazolam 4 mg/day for three and a half months experienced auditory hallucinations that led to discontinuation of primidone. It can also cause hyperactivity in children; this most commonly occurs at low serum levels. There is one case of an individual developing catatonic schizophrenia when her serum concentration of primidone went above normal.\n\nPrimidone is one of the anticonvulsants associated with anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome, others being carbamazepine, phenytoin, and phenobarbital. This syndrome consists of fever, rash, peripheral leukocytosis, lymphadenopathy, and occasionally hepatic necrosis.\n\nHyperammonemic encephalopathy was reported by Katano Hiroyuki of the Nagoya City Higashi General Hospital in early 2002 in a patient who had been stable on primidone monotherapy for five years before undergoing surgery for astrocytoma, a type of brain tumor. Additionally, her phenobarbital levels were inexplicably elevated post-surgery. This is much more common with the valproates than with any of the barbiturates. A randomized controlled trial whose results were published in the July 1985 issue of \"The New England Journal of Medicine\" found that primidone was more likely to cause impotence than phenytoin, carbamazepine, or phenobarbital. Like phenytoin, primidone is rarely associated with lymphadenopathy. Primidone can also cause vomiting; this happens in 1.0–0.1% of users.\n\nThe most common symptoms of primidone overdose are coma with loss of deep tendon reflexes and, during the recovery period, if the patient survives, disorientation, dysarthria, nystagmus, and ataxia, lethargy, somnolence, vomiting, nausea, and occasionally, focal neurological deficits which lessen over time. Complete recovery comes within five to seven days of ingestion. The symptoms of primidone poisoning have generally been attributed to its biotransformation to phenobarbital; however, primidone has toxic effects independent of its metabolites in humans. The massive crystalluria that sometimes occurs sets its symptom profile apart from that of phenobarbital. The crystals are white, needle-like, shimmering, hexagonal plates consisting mainly of primidone.\n\nIn the Netherlands alone, there were thirty-four cases of suspected primidone poisoning between 1978 and 1982. Out of these, Primidone poisoning was much less common than phenobarbital poisoning. Twenty-seven of those adult cases were reported to the Dutch National Poison Control Center. Out of these, one person taking it with phenytoin and phenobarbital died, twelve became drowsy and four were comatose.\n\nTreatments for primidone overdose have included hemoperfusion with forced diuresis, a combination of bemegride and amiphenazole; and a combination of bemegride, spironolactone, caffeine, pentylenetetrazol, strophanthin, penicillin and streptomycin.\n\nIn the three adults who are reported to have succumbed, the doses were 20–30 g. However, two adult survivors ingested 30 g 25 g, and 22.5 g. One woman experienced symptoms of primidone intoxication after ingesting 750 mg of her roommate's primidone.\n\nTaking primidone with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), procarbazine (Matulane), selegiline (Eldepryl), tranylcypromine (Parnate) or within two weeks of stopping any one of them may the effects of primidone or change one's seizure patterns. Isoniazid, an antitubercular agent with MAOI properties, has been known to strongly inhibit the metabolism of primidone.\n\nLike many anticonvulsants, primidone interacts with other anticonvulsants. Clobazam decreases clearance of primidone,\nMesuximide increases plasma levels of phenobarbital in primidone users, both primidone and phenobarbital accelerate the metabolism of carbamazepine via CYP3A4, and lamotrigine's apparent clearance is increased by primidone. In addition to being an inducer of CYP3A4, it is also an inducer of CYP1A2, which causes it to interact with substrates such as fluvoxamine, clozapine, olanzapine, and tricyclic antidepressants. It also interacts with CYP2B6 substrates such as bupropion, efavirenz, promethazine, selegiline, and sertraline; CYP2C8 substrates such as amiodarone, paclitaxel, pioglitazone, repaglinide, and rosiglitazone; and CYP2C9 substrates such as bosentan, celecoxib, dapsone, fluoxetine, glimepiride, glipizide, losartan, montelukast, nateglinide, paclitaxel, phenytoin, sulfonamides, trimethoprim, warfarin, and zafirlukast. It also interacts with estrogens.\n\nPrimidone and the other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants can cut the half-life of antipyrine roughly in half (6.2 ± 1.9 h vs. 11.2 ± 4.2 h), and increases the clearance rate by almost 70%. Phenobarbital reduces the half-life to 4.8 ± 1.3 and increases the clearance by almost 109%. It also interferes with the metabolism of dexamethasone, a synthetic steroid hormone, to the point where its withdrawal from the regimen of a 14-year-old living in the United Kingdom made her hypercortisolemic. Tempelhoff and colleagues at the Washington University School of Medicine's Department of Anesthesiology reported in 1990 that primidone and other anticonvulsant drugs increase the amount of fentanyl needed during craniotomy based on the patient's heart rate.\n\nThe exact mechanism of primidone's anticonvulsant action is still unknown after over fifty years. It is believed to work via interactions with voltage-gated sodium channels which inhibit high-frequency repetitive firing of action potentials.\nThe effect of primidone in essential tremor is not mediated by PEMA.\nThe major metabolite, phenobarbital, is also a potent anticonvulsant in its own right and likely contributes to primidone's effects in many forms of epilepsy. According to Brenner's Pharmacology textbook, Primidone also increases GABA-mediated chloride flux: thereby hyperpolarizing the membrane potential.\n\nPrimidone converts to phenobarbital and PEMA; it is still unknown which exact cytochrome P450 enzymes are responsible. The phenobarbital, in turn, is metabolized to p-hydroxyphenobarbital. The rate of primidone metabolism was greatly accelerated by phenobarbital pretreatment, moderately accelerated by primidone pretreatment, and reduced by PEMA pretreatment. In 1983, a new minor metabolite, p-hydroxyprimidone, was discovered.\n\nPrimidone, carbamazepine, phenobarbital and phenytoin are among the most potent hepatic enzyme inducing drugs in existence. This enzyme induction occurs at therapeutic doses. In fact, people taking these drugs have displayed the highest degree of hepatic enzyme induction on record. In addition to being an inducer of CYP3A4, it is also an inducer of CYP1A2, which causes it to interact with substrates such as fluvoxamine, clozapine, olanzapine, and tricyclic antidepressants, as well as potentially increasing the toxicity of tobacco products. Its metabolite, phenobarbital, is a substrate of CYP2C9, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP2A6, CYP3A5, CYP1E1, and the CYP2E subfamily. The gene expression of these isoenzymes is regulated by human pregnane receptor X (PXR) and constitutive androstane receptor (CAR). Phenobarbital induction of CYP2B6 is mediated by both. Primidone does not activate PXR.\n\nThe rate of metabolism of primidone into phenobarbital was inversely related to age; the highest rates were in the oldest patients (the maximum age being 55). People aged 70–81, relative to people aged 18–26, have decreased renal clearance of primidone, phenobarbital, and PEMA, in ascending order of significance, and that there was a greater proportion of PEMA in the urine. The clinical significance is unknown.\n\nThe percentage of primidone converted to phenobarbital has been estimated to be 5% in dogs and 15% in humans. Work done twelve years later found that the serum phenobarbital 0.111 mg/100 mL for every mg/kg of primidone ingested. Authors publishing a year earlier estimated that 24.5% of primidone was metabolized to phenobarbital. However, the patient reported by Kappy and Buckley would have had a serum level of 44.4 mg/100 mL instead of 8.5 mg/100 mL if this were true for individuals who have ingested large dose. The patient reported by Morley and Wynne would have had serum barbiturate levels of 50 mg/100 mL, which would have been fatal.\n\nPrimidone's effectiveness for epilepsy was first demonstrated in 1949 by Yule Bogue. It was introduced a year later by the Imperial Chemical Industry (ICI), now known as AstraZeneca in the United Kingdom and Germany. In 1952, it was approved in the Netherlands. That same year, Drs. Handley and Stewart demonstrated its effectiveness in the treatment of patients who failed to respond to other therapies; it was noted to be more effective in people with idiopathic generalized epilepsy than in people whose epilepsy had a known cause. Dr. Whitty noted in 1953 that it benefitted patients with psychomotor epilepsy, who were often treatment-resistant. Toxic effects were reported to be mild. That same year, it was approved in France. Primidone was introduced in 1954 under the brandname Mysoline by Wyeth in the United States.\n\nThe first report associating it with megaloblastic anemia came in 1954 from Drs. Chalmers and Boheimer. Between 1954 and 1957, twenty-one cases of megaloblastic anemia associated with primidone and/or phenytoin were reported. Most cases were due to folic acid deficiency; however, there was one that only responded to B therapy and one that required Vitamin C. Some cases were associated with deficient diets; one patient ate mostly bread and butter, another ate bread, buns, and hard candy, and another could rarely be persuaded to eat in the hospital. The idea that folic acid deficiency could cause megaloblastic anemia was not new. What was new was the idea that \"drugs\" could cause this in well-nourished people with no intestinal abnormalities. In many cases, it was not clear which drug had caused it. It was speculated that this might be related to the structural similarity between folic acid, phenytoin, phenobarbital, and primidone. Folic acid had been found to alleviate the symptoms of megaloblastic anemia in the 1940s, not long after it was discovered, but the typical patient only made a full recovery—cessation of CNS and PNS symptoms as well as anemia—on B therapy. Five years earlier, folic acid deficiency was linked to birth defects in rats. Primidone was seen by some as too valuable to withhold based on the slight possibility of this rare side effect and by others as dangerous enough to be withheld unless phenobarbital or some other barbiturate failed to work for this and other reasons (i.e., reports of permanent psychosis).\n\nIn Europe, up until 1963, it was not uncommon to prescribe primidone and phenobarbital in combination, often with a stimulant. They were believed to be the most useful for seizures occurring upon awakening, while phenytoin was the most useful for nocturnal seizures. Primidone and phenobarbital were prescribed in combination with phenytoin in diffuse epilepsies. They were third and fourth line-agents, respectively, in the treatment of partial seizures. By 1963, carbamazepine was marketed in most of Europe. It soon became clear that its efficacy in generalized tonic-clonic seizures was the same as phenytoin, that its ability to control partial seizures was superior, along with its tolerability. Sodium valproate was approved in France in 1967. Because the doses were so low (200–400 mg/day), it was viewed as a moderately effective anticonvulsant whose best quality was its nonsedating nature. In spite of the availability of carbamazepine and valproate, physicians practicing in Mediterranean countries still preferred phenobarbital. Other medications were seen as not usually necessary. Phenytoin was to be used as adjunctive therapy only. In spite of these advances, primidone was still considered to be a \"sheet-anchor\" anticonvulsant in the United Kingdom as late as 1969, along with phenobarbital and phenytoin, for the treatment of pediatric epilepsy in spite of its side effects and one of two drugs (the other being sultiame) that were tried in adult patients if a combination of phenytoin and phenobarbital failed to control seizures. A review published that same year stated that carbamazepine did not live up to the claims of those who advocated its use in epilepsy.\n\nIn 1968, a Dr. Meadow encountered six babies with cleft lip and palate in addition to other congenital abnormalities whose mothers had been taking anticonvulsants. Meadow wrote a letter in \"The Lancet\" asking for cases of cleft lip and palate in babies whose mothers had taken anticonvulsants. That same year, Milunsky, Graef, and Gaynor reported cases of cleft lip and palate associated with attempted abortion with methotrexate and aminopterin, which are folic acid antagonists. While it was widely accepted by 1969 that these drugs could interfere with folic acid and that folic acid supplementation might have beneficial somatic effects, it was believed that folic acid supplementation could exacerbate seizures; this included the routine supplements given to pregnant women to prevent megaloblastic anemia. By 1970, the doctor had collected thirty-two cases. Sixteen of them were born to women taking primidone. 25% of the thirty-two cases had congenital heart defects; the reported rate in cleft lip and palate was 3-5%. Meadow emphasized that there was no proof of an association, the immense value of anticonvulsants and the probably small odds of any one epileptic woman having a child with a congenital abnormality. Roman and Caratzali reported in 1971 that the offspring of mice treated with primidone had more abnormal bone metaphases than controls; this was due to chromosomal lesions. By the mid-1970s, it was obvious that this antagonistic effect of primidone was not due to the inhibition of dihydrofolate reductase, the enzyme responsible for the reduction of dihydrofolic acid to tetrahydrofolic acid, but rather to defective folate metabolism.\n\nCarbamazepine was approved in the United States for the treatment of adult epilepsy in 1974. Its lack of sedating properties relative to phenobarbital and lack of somatic effects relative to phenytoin generated much interest. Within two years, primidone was no longer seen as the drug of choice for psychomotor epilepsy in the United States. This was because while carbamazepine and primidone are of roughly equal effectiveness, the former is less likely to cause sedation and cognitive impairment. Also, primidone has a greater tendency to cause undesirable psychiatric side effects compared with carbamazepine, which was noted to \"lessen\" pre-existing depressive symptoms. By 1978, it looked as if its superior side effect profile would increase its use in epilepsy in the United States. That same year, a review was published stating that primidone and phenobarbital were used less often in the United Kingdom due to their greater tendency to cause behavior disorders and interfere with learning in young children. Valproate was heralded by some as \"the greatest thing since Greta Garbo\" and carbamazepine had also risen in popularity.\n\nBy 1980, primidone was seen as not worth mentioning as an option for childhood temporal lobe epilepsy by doctors in the United Kingdom. In January 1981, Dr. O'Brien and colleagues reported that primidone had a positive effect on the essential tremor of one of their patients. This led them to initiate a twenty-person prospective study. Twelve of the participants responded well. By 1984, valproic acid was the drug of choice for juvenile myoclonic epilepsy and not the equally effective primidone. However, as late as 1985, primidone was still one of the most widely used anticonvulsants. At the close of the 1980s, primidone was still the preferred anticonvulsant for complex partial seizures in Germany. In 1989, Dainippon Pharmaceutical launched Exegran (zonisamide), the first new, chemically unique, non-benzodiazepine anticonvulsant in decades.\n\nIn 1990, primidone, along with phenobarbital, was a second-line agent in partial epilepsy with or without secondarily generalized tonic-clonic seizures and was one of four agents (the others being carbamazepine, phenytoin and phenobarbital) that was used along with ethosuximide or a benzodiazepine for any absence or myoclonic seizures when valproate failed to control tonic-clonics (at least in the United States). After zonisamide, other new anticonvulsants came onto the market: felbamate, gabapentin, lamotrigine, and vigabatrin. All four were structurally distinct both from other anticonvulsants already on the market. They all had larger protective indexes than conventional agents and unlike these agents, the new ones did not cause birth defects in laboratory animals or antagonize folic acid. They seemed to be relatively mild in terms of side effects. Out of all of them lamotrigine was the most similar to phenytoin in its pattern of efficacy. Felbamate was the most effective for Lennox-Gastaut syndrome and was seen as a second-line agent in juvenile myoclonic epilepsy after valproate. These new agents were aggressively marketed. In 1994, felbamate became the anticonvulsant of last resort after ten people out of 100,000 came down with aplastic anemia.\n\nBy 1994, primidone was no longer one of the most widely used anticonvulsants. Phenytoin was still regarded as the drug of choice for partial seizures due to its long half-life and low cost; but for children, carbamazepine was seen as the best one due to phenytoin's effects on physical appearance. Topiramate was approved two years later. It, along with the others, was mainly used in patients refractory to carbamazepine and valproate. These new agents were often described as having \"innovative\" and \"selective\" mechanisms of action; in reality, most of them also worked similarly to older agents. On February 28, 1998, Élan Corporation, plc, bought the trademark and exclusive product distribution rights for Mysoline from Wyeth in Canada and the United States at a cost of $46 million and a royalty on future sales. The actual manufacture and distribution was done by Athena Neurosciences; their name appeared on a Mysoline package information sheet dated June 1998. On November 30, 1999, levetiracetam was approved for the adjunctive treatment of partial epilepsy in adults in the United States.\n\nBy the year 2000, primidone was something that was prescribed in the event that the patient had tried all other anticonvulsants and was not a candidate for surgery in the United States. In April 2001, Élan decided to concentrate its efforts towards Zanaflex, Zonegran, Skelaxin, Abelcet, Azactam, Maxipime, Myobloc, and Cutivate. Mysoline was along with many other products that did not meet \"certain commercial criteria.\" Yamanouchi Pharma Technologies, a Palo Alto-based subsidiary of Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, manufactured the actual drug. By 2003, most of the people taking primidone for epilepsy were elderly people who had been taking the drug for many years. In July 2004, Acorus Therapeutics Ltd. took over the manufacture and distribution of Mysoline from AstraZeneca February 3, 2005: almost four years after acquiring it from Elan, Xcel was acquired by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International. On April 1, 2005, Yamanouchi merged with Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd to form Astellas Pharma. As of 2005, it is widely used in the treatment of many forms of epilepsy in developing countries.\n\nPrimidone is available as a 250 mg/5mL suspension, and in the form of 50 mg, 125 mg, and 250 mg tablets. It is also available in a chewable tablet formulation in Canada.\n\nIt is marketed as several different brands including Mysoline (Canada, Ireland, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States), Prysoline (Israel, Rekah Pharmaceutical Products, Ltd.), Apo-Primidone, Liskantin (Germany, Desitin), Resimatil (Germany, Sanofi-Synthélabo GmbH), Mylepsinum (Germany, AWD.pharma GmbH & Co., KG)., and Sertan (Hungary, 250 mg tablets, ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc.)\n\nPrimidone has veterinary uses, including the prevention of aggressive behavior and cannibalism in gilt pigs, and treatment of nervous disorders in dogs and other animals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157715", "title": "Henry Albert Harper", "text": "Henry Albert Harper\n\nHenry Albert Harper (December 9, 1873 - December 6, 1901) was a Canadian journalist and civil servant. He may be best known as a friend of future Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King. Harper is commemorated by a statue on Parliament Hill after his death while trying to save someone from drowning.\n\nBorn to Henry and Margaret-Ann Harper in Cookstown, Ontario, Harper moved with his family to Barrie in 1880, where he graduated from Barrie Central Collegiate Institute eleven years later. He attended the University of Toronto where he befriended Mackenzie King, who was a fellow student. After completing his Honours degree in Political Science in 1895, Harper became a journalist in London and Toronto, before eventually becoming the Ottawa correspondent for the \"Montreal Daily Herald\".\nIn Ottawa, Harper shared an apartment with Mackenzie King, who was then leading the effort to establish the new Department of Labour under the government of Wilfrid Laurier. In 1900 Harper resigned from the Herald, to work for Mackenzie King as the assistant editor of the \"Labour Gazette\", the Department's main publication.\n\nOn December 6, 1901, Harper was attending a skating party held on the frozen Ottawa River by the Governor General, the Earl of Minto. Andrew George Blair's daughter Bessie, and Alex Creelman, fell through a patch of weak ice - though Creelman pulled himself to safety, Harper dove into the river to save Blair, and both ultimately drowned. His last words were reportedly \"What else can I do?\" when their companions tried to dissuade his rescue attempt, another telling says that he quoted Galahad's famous \"If I lose myself, I save myself\" before jumping into the water. Their bodies were recovered the following day and Harper was buried in Cookstown on December 9.\n\nMackenzie King was deeply affected by his friend's death, and arranged to become head of the government committee charged with finding some way to honour his sacrifice. Both Mackenzie King and Harper had been fond of Tennyson's Arthurian works, and Mackenzie King decided that Harper would be honoured by a statue of Sir Galahad outside the parliament buildings, with the quote cut into the stone base. Sculptor Ernest Wise Keyser was commissioned and the statue was unveiled in 1905. It remains in place today, in one of the most prominent locations in the city just in front of the main entrance to Parliament Hill. It is the only statue not portraying a politician or monarch.\nIn 1906, Mackenzie King published a book \"The Secret of Heroism\" about his friend whom he recalled in his diary entries as \"the man I loved as I have loved no other man, my father and brother alone excepted\"In 1909, King's first speech before the House of Commons was preceded by the statement that he marked the eighth anniversary of Harper's sacrifice by placing ten white roses on the base of the statue.\n\nHis diaries, memos and correspondence with King are kept in the National Archives of Canada.\n\nHenry Harper is buried in the Harper family plot at the Old Presbyterian Cemetery at Wilson's Hill, located about two miles south of Cookstown. There is a memorial plaque to his memory in St. Andrew's Presbyterian Church in Barrie, Ontario.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157717", "title": "What I Really Mean", "text": "What I Really Mean\n\nWhat I Really Mean is an album by Texas-based folk singer-songwriter Robert Earl Keen, released in the United States on May 10, 2005, by Koch Entertainment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157722", "title": "Mel's Drive-In", "text": "Mel's Drive-In\n\nMel's Drive-In is an American restaurant chain founded in 1947 by Mel Weiss and Harold Dobbs in San Francisco, California. It is closely associated with the film \"American Graffiti\".\n\nThere are a number of Mel's in Northern California that share the same general \"American Graffiti\" nostalgia theme and the similarly styled Mel's logo. These restaurants are called “Original Mels”. Their locations are not listed on the official Mel's Drive-In website, although an article from the \"Sacramento Business Journal\" shows that they're related. \n\nA family rift caused the Weisses to part ways and form two chains. The elder Weiss sold his company to Larry Spergel in 1994, who formed a group of about 50 stockholders that now owns the chain. The Walnut Creek, California, location features a history of the original San Francisco Mel's.\n\nSome Mel's Drive-In locations are not actually drive-ins, but rather diners. For example, while founded in San Francisco, none of the locations in the city currently serve food to patrons’ cars.\nSignage and menus on the original Mel's Diners did not have a possessive apostrophe in the name, as would be expected. However, when Universal Studios recreated the diners at their theme parks in Hollywood, Orlando, Japan, and Singapore, they opted to include the apostrophe in all Mel's Drive-In signage, literature, and media.\n\nOne location near downtown San Francisco, rechristened Mel's Kitchen, has gone upscale, serving $12 cocktails, $16 burgers with locally sourced beef, ahi poke, acai smoothies, and avocado toast. That site was almost demolished to build housing.\n\nIn October 1963, the Mel's Drive-In chain was picketed and subjected to a sit-in by the Ad Hoc Committee to End Discrimination over the fact that while the restaurant would serve food to African Americans and hired them as cooks, they were not allowed to work “up front” where they could be seen by white customers. More than 100 protesters were arrested. The picketing ended when Harold Dobbs, a San Francisco City supervisor who had run for mayor and lost, settled with the protesters and began to allow black workers up front. \n\nIn 1972, the restaurant was selected as a feature location by George Lucas for his 1973 film \"American Graffiti\". The Mel's used was located at 140 South Van Ness Avenue in San Francisco. It serves as the setting for the opening scene of the film as well as the backdrop for the opening credits, accompanied on the soundtrack by Bill Haley’s “Rock Around the Clock”.\n\nThe prominent play given to the location has been credited with having saved the company from possibly going out of business. Signage and artwork from the Mel’s chain is frequently used in marketing for the film.\n\nUniversal Studios built a replica of Mel’s Drive-In on its lot, pursuant to the restaurant being used in \"American Graffiti\" – this amusement attraction also served as a gift shop for years.\n\nPrior to \"American Graffiti\", Mel’s was used as a location in the 1967 film \"Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner\". Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn are out for a drive, and Tracy pulls into Mel’s and orders Oregon boysenberry ice cream; he then has a minor traffic altercation with a black man. The Mel’s was located in the Excelsior district of San Francisco. Hepburn and Tracy never actually visited the location.\n\nMel’s restaurants have since been featured in other media, such as \"Melrose Place\" (1996, Season 5, Episode 1), \"Doonesbury\" comics (December 18, 1989), and the book \"The American Drive-in\" by Mike Witzel.\n\nThe address for the Mel's Drive-In location on Sunset Boulevard in West Hollywood is listed at the bottom of the signed headshots found in the VIP packages for the band Ghost's \"A Pale Tour Named Death\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2157729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157729", "title": "Second East Turkestan Republic", "text": "Second East Turkestan Republic\n\nThe Second East Turkestan Republic, commonly referred to simply as the East Turkestan Republic (ETR), was a short-lived Soviet-backed Turkic socialist people's republic. The ETR existed in the mid-1940s (November 12, 1944 – December 22, 1949) in Northern Xinjiang. It began as a revolution in three northern districts (Ili, Tarbaghatai and Altai) of Xinjiang Province of the Chinese Republic, resulting in the Ili Rebellion. In 1946 it canceled its independent participation and joined the Xinjiang Provincial Coalition Government, but maintained \"de facto\" autonomy. In August 1947, the officials of the ETR withdrew from the Xinjiang Provincial Coalition Government and re-asserted their independence. The rest of Xinjiang was under Kuomintang control. This region is now part (mainly Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture) of the Northern Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of the People's Republic of China (PRC).\n\nFrom 1934 to 1941 Xinjiang was under the influence of the Soviet Union. The local warlord Sheng Shicai was dependent on the Soviet Union for military support and trade. Soviet troops entered Xinjiang twice, in 1934 and 1937, for limited periods of time to give direct military support to Sheng Shicai's regime. After suppressing the 36th Division General Ma Chung-yin in 1934 and the withdrawal of Soviet troops in 1935, the USSR sent a commission to Xinjiang to draw up a plan for reconstruction of the province, led by Stalin's brother-in-law, Deputy Chief of Soviet State Bank, Alexander Svanidze, which resulted in a Soviet five-year loan of five million gold rubles to Sheng Shicai's regime. The draft was signed by Sheng Shicai on 16 May 1935, without consultation or approval by the Central Government of China. After Soviet intervention in 1937 and quelling of both Tungan and Uyghur rebels on the South of Xinjiang with liquidation of the 36th Tungan Division and 6th Uyghur Division, the Soviet Government did not withdraw all Soviet troops. A regiment of soldiers from the Ministry of Internal Affairs remained in Kumul beginning in October 1937, in order to prevent a possible offensive by the Imperial Japanese Army into Xinjiang via Inner Mongolia. In exchange, concessions were granted for oil wells, tin and tungsten mines and trade terms highly favorable to the USSR.\n\nIn 1936, after Sheng Shicai expelled 20,000 Kazakhs from Xinjiang (Barkol area) to Qinghai, Hui led by General Ma Bufang massacred their fellow Muslim Kazakhs, until only 135 remained.\n\nOn November 26, 1940, Sheng Shicai concluded an agreement granting the USSR additional concessions in the province of Xinjiang for fifty years, including areas bordering India and Tibet. This placed Xinjiang under virtually full political and economic control of the USSR, making it part of China in name only. Sheng Shicai recalled in his memoir, \"Red Failure in Sinkiang,\" published by the University of Michigan in 1958, that Joseph Stalin pressured him to sign the secret \"Agreement of Concessions\" in 1940. The \"Agreement of Concessions\", prepared by Stalin and seventeen articles long, would have resulted in Xinjiang sharing the same fate as Poland. Sheng Shicai was informed of this intended result by Soviet representatives in Ürümqi Bakulin and Karpov.\n\nThe first article of the agreement stated that \"The Government of Sinkiang agrees to extend to the Government of the USSR within the territory of Sinkiang exclusive rights to prospect for, investigate and exploit tin mines and its ancillary minerals.\" The USSR established a trust known as \"Sin-Tin\" as an independent juridical person subject only to legislative procedures of the USSR for implementation of the provisions of the agreement on Concessions in accordance with Article 4 with \"the right to establish without hindrance branch offices, sub-branch offices and agencies within the whole territory of Sinkiang\" with \"all supplies of needs of concessions, deliveries of equipment and materials and other imports from USSR and exports of minerals from Sinkiang free of custom duties and other imposts and taxes and payment of a fixed price of five percent of the cost of mined minerals to the Xinjiang Government\". Article 5 stated that \" During the period of validity of the present Agreement, the Government of Sinkiang shall guarantee the acquisition of lands, including the felling of timbers, the mining of coal and areas for the procurement of building materials, which may be necessary for the carrying on of the various kinds of works referred to in this Agreement. The Government of Sinkiang shall remove all the population residing in such areas as may have been allotted to Sin-tin.\" Agreement granted USSR the right to seize land allotted to \"Sin-tin\" in any area of Xinjiang because Article 5 stated that \" such areas of land shall be allotted on the application of Sin-tin. In the allotment of such areas of land , there shall be no delay and shall be in strict conformity with the terms of the application. The rental for such allotted areas shall be paid with the products of Sin-tin as provided for in Article 7\" Following this agreement on Concessions, large-scale geological exploration expeditions were sent by the Soviets to Xinjiang in 1940 to 1941 and large deposits of uranium, beryllium and other minerals were found in the mountains near Kashgar and in the Altai region. Ores of both minerals continued to be delivered from Xinjiang Altai mines to the USSR until the end of 1949. Soviet geologists continued to work in Xinjiang until 1955, when Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev refused Mao Zedong's demand to hand over the technology to produce PRC nuclear weapons. A Chinese atomic project was initiated using facilities built by the Soviet Union in Chuguchak and Altai in Northern Xinjiang. These facilities were used by the Soviet Union for nuclear weapon design and the creation of the first Soviet atomic bomb, successfully tested in the USSR on 29 August 1949.\n\nFollowing Operation Barbarossa, the German invasion of the Soviet Union in June 1941, and the entry of the United States into World War II in December 1941, the Soviet Union became a less attractive patron for Sheng than the Kuomintang. By 1943 Sheng Shicai switched his allegiance to the Kuomintang after major Soviet defeats at the hands of the Germans in World War II, all Soviet Red Army military forces and technicians residing in the province were expelled, and the Republic of China National Revolutionary Army units and soldiers belonging to Ma Bufang moved into Xinjiang to take control of the province. Ma Bufang helped the Kuomintang build roads linking Qinghai and Xinjiang, which helped both of them bring Xinjiang under their influence. At August 1942 Sheng met Dekanozov, former Soviet ambassador to Nazi Germany and Vice Commissar of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the USSR, in Ürümqi and demanded that the Soviet Union withdraw all military forces and political officers from Xinjiang in three months and remove all Soviet equipment from the territory of Soviet Concessions, including closing the Soviet oil fields in Dushanzi (Jungaria) and the Soviet Aircraft Assembly Plant in Ürümqi (disguised as Agricultural Implements Manufacturing Factory). On 29 August 1942, the day after Dekanozov left Ürümqi, Sheng met Madame Chiang Kai-shek, wife of the Chinese Generalissimo, who flew to Ürümqi with a letter from Chiang Kai-shek promising his forgiveness to Sheng for all of his previous deals. Sheng was appointed the head of the Kuomintang branch in Xinjiang in 1943 and allowed Kuomintang cadres into the province. To forge his ties with Kuomintang, on 17 September 1942 Sheng arrested a number of Chinese communists sent to Xinjiang by the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China in 1938 and executed them in 1943. Among the executed was Mao Zemin, brother of Mao Zedong. In the summer of 1944, following the German defeat on the Eastern Front, Sheng attempted to reassert control over Xinjiang and turned to the Soviet Union for support again. He arrested a number of Kuomintang cadres in Ürümqi and sent a letter to Stalin offering to \"incorporate Xinjiang into USSR as its 18th Soviet Socialistic Republic.\" Sheng Shicai asked Stalin for the post of ruler of the new Soviet Republic. Stalin refused to deal with Sheng and forwarded the confidential letter to Chiang Kai-shek. As a result, the Kuomintang removed him from the province in August 1944 and appointed him to a low-level post in the Ministry of Forestry in Chongqing.\n\nIn 1944, the Soviets took advantage of discontent among the Turkic peoples of the Ili region in northern Xinjiang to support a rebellion against Kuomintang rule in the province in order to reassert Soviet influence in the region.\n\nMany of the Turkic peoples of the Ili region of Xinjiang had close cultural, political, and economic ties with Russia and then the Soviet Union. Many of them were educated in the Soviet Union and a community of Russian settlers lived in the region. As a result, many of the Turkic rebels fled to the Soviet Union and obtained Soviet assistance in creating the Sinkiang Turkic People's Liberation Committee (STPNLC) in 1943 to revolt against Kuomintang rule during the Ili Rebellion. The pro-Soviet Uyghur who later became leader of the revolt and the Second East Turkestan Republic, Ehmetjan Qasim, was Soviet-educated and described as \"Stalin's man\" and as a \"communist-minded progressive\". Qasim Russified his surname to \"Kasimov\" and became a member of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union.\n\nLiu Bin-Di was a Hui Muslim Kuomintang (KMT) officer and was sent by officials in Ürümqi to subdue the Hi area and crush the Turkic Muslims, who were prepared to overthrow Chinese rule. His mission failed because his troops arrived too late. Several Turkic cavalry units armed by the Soviets crossed into China in the direction of Kuldja. In November 1944 Liu was killed by Uyghur and Kazakh rebels backed by the Soviet Union. This started the Ili Rebellion, with the Uyghur Ili rebel army fighting against Republic of China forces.\n\nFollowing Sheng Shicai's departure from Xinjiang, the new Kuomintang administration had increasing trouble maintaining law and order. On September 16, 1944, troops that had been sent to Gongha county, a majority Kazakh region, were unable to contain a group of rioters. By October 8, the rioters had captured Nilka, the county seat. During October, the Three Districts Rebellion broke out south of Ghulja in the Ili, Altay and Tarbagatay districts of northern Xinjiang. Aided by the Soviet Union, and supported by several Xinjiang exiles trained in the Soviet Union, the rebels quickly established control over the three districts, capturing Ghulja in November. The ethnic Chinese population of the region was reduced by massacre and expulsion. According to United States consular officials, the Islamic scholar Elihan Töre declared a \"Turkistan Islam Government\":\n\nThe rebels assaulted Kulja on 7 November 1944 and rapidly took over parts of the city, massacring KMT troops, however, the rebels encountered fierce resistance from KMT forces holed up in the power and central police stations and did not take them until the 13th. The creation of the \"East Turkestan Republic\" (ETR) was declared on the 15th. The Soviet Army assisted the Ili Uyghur army in capturing several towns and airbases. Non-communist Russians like White Russians and Russian settlers who had lived in Xinjiang since the 19th century also helped the Soviet Red Army and the Ili Army rebels. They suffered heavy losses. Many leaders of the East Turkestan Republic were Soviet agents or affiliated with the Soviet Union, like Abdulkerim Abbas, Ishaq Beg, Saifuddin Azizi and the White Russians F. Leskin, A. Polinov, and Glimkin. When the rebels ran into trouble taking the vital Airambek airfield from the Chinese, Soviet military forces directly intervened to help mortar the Airambek and reduce the Chinese stronghold.\n\nThe rebels engaged in massacres of Han Chinese civilians, especially targeting people affiliated with the KMT and Sheng Shicai. In the \"Kulja Declaration\" issued on 5 January 1945, the East Turkestan Republic proclaimed that it would \"sweep away the Han Chinese\", threatening to extract a \"blood debt\" from the Han. The declaration also declared that the Republic would seek to especially establish cordial ties with the Soviets. The ETR later de-emphasized the anti-Han tone in their official proclamations after they were done massacring most of the Han civilians in their area. The massacres against the Han occurred mostly during 1944–45, with the KMT responding in kind by torturing, killing, and mutilating ETR prisoners. In territory controlled by the ETR like Kulja, various repressive measures were carried out, like barring Han from owning weapons, operating a Soviet-style secret police, and only making Russian and Turkic languages official and not Chinese. While the non-Muslim Tungusic peoples like the Xibe played a large role in helping the rebels by supplying them with crops, the local Muslim Tungan (Hui) in Ili gave either an insignificant and negligible contribution to the rebels or did not assist them at all.\n\nThe demands of the rebels included termination of Chinese rule, equality for all nationalities, recognised use of native languages, friendly relations with the Soviet Union, and opposition to Chinese immigration into Xinjiang. The military forces available to the rebellion were the newly formed Ili National Army (INA) and later renamed the East Turkestan National Army, which included mostly Uighur, Kazakh and White Russian soldiers (around 60,000 troops, armed and trained by the Soviet Union, strengthened with regular Red Army units, that included up to 500 officers and 2,000 soldiers), and a group of Kazakh Karai tribesmen under the command of Osman Batur (around 20,000 horsemen). The Kazakhs expanded to the north, while the INA expanded to the south. By September 1945, the Kuomintang Army and the INA occupied positions on either side of the Manasi River near Ürümqi. By this time the ETR held Zungaria and Kashgaria, while the Kuomintang held the Ürümqi (Tihuwa) area.\n\nThe \"Ili National Army\" (INA) which was established on 8 April 1945 as the military arm of the ETR, was led by the Kirghiz Ishaq Beg and the White Russians Polinov and Leskin, and all three were pro-Soviet and had a history of military service with Soviet-associated forces. The Soviets supplied the INA with ammunition and Russian-style uniforms, and Soviet troops directly helped the INA troops fight against the Chinese forces. The INA uniforms and flags all had insignia with the Russian acronym for \"East Turkestan Republic\", VTR in Cyrillic (Vostochnaya Turkestanskaya Respublika). Thousands of Soviet troops assisted Turkic rebels in fighting the Chinese army. In October 1945 suspected Soviet planes attacked Chinese positions.\n\nAs the Soviet Red Army and Uyghur Ili Army advanced with Soviet air support against poorly prepared Chinese forces, they almost reached Ürümqi; however, the Chinese military created rings of defences around the area, sending Chinese Muslim cavalry to halt the advance of the Turkic Muslim rebels. Thousands of Chinese Muslim troops under General Ma Bufang and his nephew General Ma Chengxiang poured into Xinjiang from Qinghai to combat the Soviet and Turkic Uyghur forces.\n\nMuch of the Ili army and equipment originated from the Soviet Union. The Ili rebel army pushed the Chinese forces across the plains and reached Kashgar, Kaghlik and Yarkand. However, the Uyghurs in the oases gave no support to the Soviet-backed rebels and, as a result, the Chinese army was able to expel them. The Ili rebels then butchered livestock belonging to Kirghiz and Tajiks of Xinjiang. The Soviet-backed insurgents destroyed Tajik and Kirghiz crops and moved aggressively against the Tajiks and Kirghiz of China. The Chinese beat back the Soviet-supported rebellion in Sarikol from August 1945 – 1946, defeating the siege of the \"tribesman\" around Yarkand when they had rebelled in Nanchiang around Sarikol, and killing Red Army officers.\n\nThe Chinese Muslim Ma Clique warlord of Qinghai, Ma Bufang, was sent with his Muslim cavalry to Ürümqi by the Kuomintang in 1945 to protect it from the Uyghur rebels from Ili. In 1945, the Tungan (Hui) 5th and 42nd Cavalry were sent from Qinghai to Xinjiang where they reinforced the KMT Second Army, composed of four divisions. Their combined forces made for 100,000 Hui and Han troops serving under KMT command in 1945. It was reported the Soviets were eager to \"liquidate\" Ma Bufang. General Ma Chengxiang, another Hui Ma Clique officer and nephew of Ma Bufang, commanded the First Cavalry Division in Xinjiang under the KMT, which was formerly the Gansu Fifth Cavalry Army.\n\nA cease-fire was declared in 1946, with the Second East Turkestan Republic in control of Ili and the Chinese in control of the rest of Xinjiang, including Ürümqi.\n\nIn August 1945, China signed a Treaty of Friendship and Alliance granting the Soviet Union a range of concessions that the United States promised at the Yalta conference. This ended overt Soviet support for the East Turkestan Republic. The Kuomintang's central government of China reached a negotiated settlement with the leaders of the ETR in June 1946. According to the negotiated settlement, on 27 June 1946, the Committee of the Government of ETR laid down Resolution 324, to transform the Committee of the Government of ETR into the council of the Ili Prefecture of Xinjiang Province (the resolution use 'East Turkestan' to denote Xinjiang Province), and end the ETR. The new council was not a government, and the Three Districts were respectively and directly led by the newly founded Xinjiang Provincial Coalition Government along with the other seven districts in Xinjiang.\n\nOn 1 July 1946, the Xinjiang Provincial Coalition Government was established in Ürümqi. This government was constituted by three sides: the central government of China, the Three Districts, and the Uyghur-inhabited, anti-revolutionary Seven Districts (at the time, Xinjiang Province was divided into ten districts, and the Seven Districts were treated as a unit in the Coalition Government). In the 25 members of the Committee of the Coalition Government, there were seven from the central government, eight from the Three Districts, and ten from the Seven Districts. The communist Ehmetjan Qasim, the leader of the Three Districts, became the Provincial Vice Chairman.\n\nAs the establishment of the Coalition Government, the unpopular governor Wu Zhongxin (chairman of the Government of Xinjiang Province) was replaced by Zhang Zhizhong (chairman of the Xinjiang Provincial Coalition Government), who implemented pro-minority policies to placate the minority population in the Three Districts.\n\nAfter the establishment of the Coalition Government, in effect, little changed in the Three Districts. The Three Districts remained a de facto separate pro-Soviet area with its own currency and military forces. At the beginning, all the three sides of the Coalition Government placed their hopes in it. The Three Districts side discussed with the Coalition Government and the Seven Districts the union of the economy, finance, transport, postal-service systems of the ten districts in Xinjiang again. They discussed the army reorganization of the Three Districts, too. The Three Districts had withdrawn their army from the Seven Districts.\n\nHowever, as the domestic and international situation changed, and the contradiction in the Coalition Government deepened, the Coalition Government was on the verge of collapse in 1947. During 1946 and 1947, the Kuomintang actively supported some politicians opposing the Three Districts. By this time, these opposition politicians included Kazakh leader Osman Batur, who broke with the other rebels when their pro-Soviet orientation became clear. In the Coalition Government, there were several important anti-revolutionary Uyghurs appointed by the Kuomintang, such as Muhammad Amin Bughra, Isa Yusuf Alptekin and Masud Sabri. These three Uyghurs returned to Xinjiang with Zhang Zhizhong in 1945, when the negotiations started.\n\nAs there were too many difficulties, Zhang Zhizhong, the chairman of the Coalition Government, decided to escape from Xinjiang. Bai Chongxi, the Defense Minister of China and a Hui Muslim, was considered for appointment in 1947 as Governor of Xinjiang. But finally, according to Zhang Zhizhong's recommendation, the position was given instead to Masud Sabri, a pro-Kuomintang, anti-Soviet Uyghur.\n\nOn 21 May 1947, the central government appointed Masud Sabri the new chairman, and Isa Yusuf Alptekin the secretary-general of the Coalition Government. This was fiercely opposed by the Three Districts side, but supported by the Seven Districts side. Masud Sabri was close to conservatives in the CC Clique of the Kuomintang and undid all of Zhang Zhizhong's pro-minority reforms, which set off revolts and riots among the Uyghurs in the oases like Turfan (one of the Seven Districts. Riots in Turfan started in July 1947). On 12 August 1947, Ehmetjan Qasim (the vice-chairman of the Coalition Government and the leader of the Three Districts) left Ürümqi and returned to Ili. Soon afterwards, all the representatives in the Coalition Government from the Three Districts side returned to Ili, too. So the Coalition Government collapsed.\n\nAfter the collapse, the Three Districts reverted to a de facto separate pro-Soviet area. However, this time the Three Districts never rebuilt the old ETR, but remained in Xinjiang Province. The leadership was firmly in the hands of communists. On 3 February 1947, the People's Revolutionary Party (in the Three Districts) and the Xinjiang Communist Union (in Ürümqi) incorporated into the Democratic Revolutionary Party (the chairman was Abdulkerim Abbas), and the party constitution clearly stipulated that one of the party's goals was to oppose the 'Pan-Turkism' and 'Pan-Islam'. Ehmetjan Qasim, Abdulkerim Abbas and other leaders of the Three Districts publicly declared that the Three Districts would not recreate the ETR, but must remain in Xinjiang and China. In order to establish a new organization to govern the Three Districts (from the beginning of the Coalition Government, when the government of ETR dissolved, the Three Districts lost a united government), in August 1948, the Xinjiang Democratic League of Peace Safeguarding was organized. It was both a political party and a leading organization of the Three Districts. To be noticeable, the party used \"Xinjiang\" in its name, but did not use \"East Turkestan\". This was a milestone for the Three Districts side.\n\nAt the end of Chinese Civil War, in September 1949, when the Kuomintang army and provincial government of Xinjiang switched to the Communist Party of China (CPC) side, the Three Districts joined the CPC side, and accepted the leadership of CPC. Their revolution ended. The leaders of the Three Districts joined CPC (such as Saifuddin Azizi), and the army was reformed into the Fifth Army of the Chinese People's Liberation Army, then in the 1950s it was transformed into a part of the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps.\n\nThe KMT CC Clique employed countermeasures in Xinjiang to prevent the conservative, traditionalist religious Uyghurs in the oases in southern Xinjiang from defecting to the pro-Soviet, pro-Russian ETR Uyghurs in Ili in northern Xinjiang. The KMT allowed three anti-Soviet, pan-Turkic nationalist Uyghurs, Masud Sabri, Muhammad Amin Bughra and Isa Yusuf Alptekin to write and publish pan-Turkic nationalist propaganda in order to incite the Turkic peoples against the Soviets, angering them. Anti-Soviet sentiment was espoused by Isa while pro-Soviet sentiment was espoused by Burhan. In 1949, according to Abdurahim Amin, violence broke out at Xinjiang College in Dihua (Ürümqi) between supporters of the Soviets and supporters of Turkey following the screening of a film on the Russo-Turkish wars.\n\nThe unpopular governor Wu Zhongxin was replaced after the cease-fire with Zhang Zhizhong, who implemented pro-minority policies to placate the Uyghur population. Bai Chongxi, the Defense Minister of China and a Muslim, was considered for appointment in 1947 as Governor of Xinjiang, but the position was given instead to Masud Sabri, a pro-Kuomintang, anti-Soviet Uyghur. Masud Sabri was close to conservatives in the CC Clique of the Kuomintang and undid all of Zhang Zhizhong's pro-minority reforms, which set off revolts and riots among the Uyghurs in the oases like Turfan.\n\nAmerican telegrams reported that the Soviet secret police threatened to assassinate Muslim leaders from Ining and put pressure on them to flee to \"inner China\" via Tihwa (Ürümqi), White Russians grew fearful of Muslim mobs as they chanted, \"We freed ourselves from the yellow men, now we must destroy the white.\"\n\nThe pan-Turkist 3 Effendis (Üch Äpändi), Aisa Alptekin, Memtimin Bughra and Masud Sabri were anti-Soviet Uyghur leaders. The Second East Turkestan Republic attacked them as Kuomintang \"puppets\".\n\nAchmad (Ehmetjan Qasim) strongly opposed Masud Sabri becoming governor.\n\nEhmetjan Qasim (Achmad-Jan), the Uyghur Ili leader, demanded that Masud Sabri be sacked as governor and that prisoners be released from Kuomintang jails as some of his demands to agreeing to visit Nanjing.\n\nUyghur linguist Ibrahim Muti'i opposed the Second East Turkestan Republic and the Ili Rebellion because it was backed by the Soviets and Stalin. The former ETR leader Saifuddin Azizi later apologized to Ibrahim and admitted that his opposition to the East Turkestan Republic was the correct thing to do.\n\nOver 60,000 soldiers were in the Ili army according to General Sung.\n\nOsman Batur, the Kazakh leader, defected to the Kuomintang, and started fighting against the Soviet and Mongolian armies during the Pei-ta-shan Incident. The Tungan (Chinese Muslim or Hui) 14th Cavalry Regiment, which worked for the Kuomintang, was sent by the Chinese government to attack the Soviet and Mongol armies at Peitashan on the Xinjiang-Mongolia border.\n\nThe Salar Muslim Gen. Han Youwen, who served under Ma Bufang, commanded the Pau-an-dui (pacification soldiers), composed of three 340-man battalions. They were composed of men of many groups, including Kazakhs, Mongols and White Russians serving the Chinese regime. He served with Osman Batur and his Kazakh forces in battling the Three Districts Ili Uyghur and Soviet forces. The Three Districts forces in the Ashan zone were attacked, defeated and killed by Osman's Kazakh forces during an offensive in September 1947, supported by the Chinese. Osman's Kazakhs seized most of the towns in the Ashan zone from the Three Districts. The acting Soviet consul at Chenghua, Dipshatoff, directed the Red Army in aiding Three Districts Ili forces against Osman's Kazakhs.\n\nThe Pei-ta-shan Incident was a border conflict between the Republic of China and the Mongolian People's Republic. The Chinese Muslim Hui cavalry regiment was sent by the Chinese government to attack Mongol and Soviet positions, resulting in the conflict.\n\nA Xinjiang police station manned by a Chinese police force with Chinese sentry posts existed in Xinjiang both before and after 1945.\n\nChinese Muslim and Kazakh forces working for the Kuomintang, battled Soviet and Mongol troops. In June 1947, the Mongols and the Soviets attacked the Kazakhs, driving them back to the Chinese side of the border. Fighting continued for another year, with thirteen clashes taking place between 5 June 1947, and July 1948.\n\nMongolia invaded Xinjiang to assist Li Rihan, the pro-Russian Special Commissioner, gain control of Xinjiang from Special Commissioner Us Man (Osman), who supported the Republic of China. The Chinese defence ministry spokesman announced that Outer Mongolian soldiers were captured at Peitashan, and stated that troops were resisting near Peitashan.\n\nElite Qinghai Hui cavalry were sent by the Kuomintang to destroy the Mongols and the Russians in 1947.\n\nChinese troops recaptured Peitashan and continued to fight against Soviet and Mongolian bomber planes. China's Legislative Yuan demanded a firmer policy against Russia.\n\nThe Chinese General Ma Xizhen and the Kazakh Osman Batur fought the Mongol troops and airplanes throughout June 1947. The MPR used a battalion-size force and had Soviet air support in June 1947. The Mongolians repeatedly probed the Chinese lines.\n\nOsman continued to fight against the Uyghur forces of the Yili regime in north Ashan after being defeated by Soviet forces.\n\nIn August 1949, the People's Liberation Army captured Lanzhou, the capital of the Gansu Province. Kuomintang administration in Xinjiang was threatened. The Kuomintang Xinjiang provincial leaders Tao Zhiyue and Burhan Shahidi led the government and army's switch to the Communist Party of China (CPC) side in September 1949. By the end of 1949, some Kuomintang officials fled to Afghanistan, India and Pakistan, but most crossed over or surrendered to the CPC. On 17 August 1949, the Communist Party of China sent Deng Liqun to negotiate with the Three Districts' leadership in Ghulja (Yining in Chinese). Mao Zedong invited the leaders of the Three Districts to take part in the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference later that year. The leaders of the Three Districts traveled to the Soviet Union on August 22 by automobiles through Horgos, accompanied by Soviet vice-consul in Ghulja Vasiliy Borisov, where they were told to cooperate with the Communist Party of China. Negotiations between Three Districts and Soviet representatives in Alma-Ata continued for three days and were difficult because of the unwillingness of Three Districts leader Ehmetjan Qasimi (whose strategy was opposed by two other delegates-Abdulkerim Abbas and Luo Zhi, while Generals Ishaq Beg and Dalelkhan supported Ehmetjan) to agree to incorporate the Three Districts into the future Chinese communist state, supposedly in 1951. The People's Republic of China was proclaimed two years earlier, on 1 October 1949. Ehmetjan regarded the current situation as a historic opportunity for Uyghurs and other people of Xinjiang to gain freedom and independence that shouldn't be lost. So, the Three Districts delegation was offered to continue negotiations in Moscow directly with Stalin before departure to Beijing. On August 25, the eleven delegates, Ehmetjan Qasimi, Abdulkerim Abbas, Ishaq Beg, Luo Zhi, Dalelkhan Sugirbayev and accompanying officers of the Three Districts, boarded Ilyushin Il-12 plane in Alma-Ata, Kazakhstan, officially heading to Beijing, but flight was diverted for Moscow. On September 3, the Soviet Union informed the Chinese government that the plane had crashed near Lake Baikal en route to Beijing, killing all on board. On the same day Molotov sent a telegram to Ghulja to inform Saifuddin Azizi (interim leader of the Three Districts when Ehmetjan Qasimi was not in Ili, and a member of Communist Party of Soviet Union) about the \"Tragic death of devoted revolutionaries, including Ehmetjan Qasimi, in airplane crash near Lake Baikal en route to Beijing\". In accordance with instructions from Moscow, Saifuddin Azizi kept the news secret from the population of the Three Districts and it was unreported by Beijing for several months until January 1950, when the then-unrecognisable bodies of the Three Districts leaders were delivered from the USSR and when the People's Liberation Army of China had already secured most of the regions of the former Xinjiang Province.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, some former KGB generals and high officers (among them Pavel Sudoplatov) revealed that the five leaders were killed on Stalin's orders in Moscow on 27 August 1949, after a three-day imprisonment in the former Tsar's stables, having been arrested upon arrival in Moscow by the Head of MGB Colonel General Viktor Abakumov, who personally interrogated the Three Districts leaders, then ordered their execution. This was allegedly done in accordance with a deal between Stalin and Mao Zedong, but this allegation has never been confirmed. The remaining important figures of the Three Districts, including Saifuddin Azizi (who led the Second delegation of the Three Districts, which participated in Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference in September in Beijing, which proclaimed the People's Republic of China on 1 October 1949), agreed to incorporate the Three Districts into the Xinjiang Province and accept important positions within the administration. However, some Kazakhs led by Osman Batur continued their resistance until 1954. Saifuddin then became the first chairman of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, which replaced Xinjiang Province in 1955. First People's Liberation Army units arrived at Ürümqi airport on 20 October 1949 on Soviet airplanes, provided by Stalin, and quickly established control in northern Xinjiang, then, together with units of the National Army of the Three Districts, entered southern Xinjiang, thus establishing control over all ten districts of Xinjiang Province. Earlier, on a single day, on 26 September 1949, 100,000 Kuomintang Army troops in the province switched their allegiance from Kuomintang to the Communist Party of China together with the Chairman of Xinjiang Provincial Government Burhan Shahidi, who was among the few who knew what actually happened to the First delegation of the Three Districts in August in the USSR. On 20 December 1949 the Ili National Army joined PLA as its 5th Army. The province's final status was instituted in 1955, when it was reorganised into an autonomous region for the 13 nationalities of Xinjiang ( Uyghur, Han Chinese, Kazakh, Kyrgyz, Hui, Mongol, Tajik, Uzbek, Tatar, Russian, Xibe, Daur, Manchu people).\n\nThe National Army of the Second East Turkestan Republic was formed on 8 April 1945, and originally consisted of six regiments:\n\nGeneral conscription of all races, except the Chinese, into the National Army was enforced in the Ili zone.\n\nLater, Sibo and Mongol battalions were upgraded to regiments. When Kazakh irregulars under Osman Batur defected to the Kuomintang in 1947, the Kazakh cavalry regiment of National Army also defected to Osman Batur. The motorized part of Army consisted of an Artillery Division, which included twelve cannons, two armoured vehicles, and two tanks. National aviation forces included forty-two airplanes, captured at a Kuomintang air base in Ghulja on 31 January 1945; all of them were damaged during the battle for the base. Some of these aircraft were repaired and put into service by Soviet military personnel in ETR. These airplanes participated in the battle between Ili rebels and the Kuomintang for Shihezi and Jinghe in September 1945.\n\nThis battle resulted in the capture of both KMT bases and oil fields in Dushanzi. During the battle, one more Kuomintang airplane was captured, detachments of National Army reached Manasi River north of Ürümqi, which caused panic in the city. Government offices were evacuated to Kumul. An offensive on Xinjiang's capital was cancelled due to direct pressure from Moscow on Ili rebels' leadership, which agreed to follow orders from Moscow to begin peace talks with Kuomintang. Moscow ordered the National Army to cease fire on all frontiers. First peace talks between Ili rebels and Kuomintang followed Chiang Kai-shek's speech on China State Radio, offering \"to peacefully resolve Xinjiang crisis\" with the rebels. These peace talks were mediated by the Soviet Union and started in Ürümqi on 14 October 1945.\n\nThe National Army enlisted 25,000 to 30,000 troops. In accordance with the peace agreement with Chiang Kai-shek signed on 6 June 1946, this number was reduced to 11,000 to 12,000 troops and restricted to stations in only the Three Districts (Ili, Tarbaghatai and Altai) of northern Xinjiang. National Army detachments were also withdrawn from southern Xinjiang, leaving the strategic city of Aksu and opening the road from Ürümqi to the Kashgar region. This allowed the Kuomintang to send 70,000 troops from 1946 to 1947 and quell the rebellion in the Pamir Mountains.\n\nThe rebellion was broken on 19 August 1945, in the Sariqol area of Taghdumbash Pamir. Rebels led by the Uyghur Sadiq Khan Khoja from Kargilik and the Sariqoli Tajik Karavan Shah captured all the border posts near the Afghan, Soviet and Indian borders (Su-Bashi, Daftar, Mintaka Qarawul, Bulunqul), and a Tashkurgan fortress, killing Kuomintang troops. The rebels took Kuomintang troops by surprise as they celebrated the capitulation of Japanese Army in Manchuria. A few Kuomintang forces in Sariqol survived and fled to India during the rebel attack. The original base of the rebellion was situated on the mountainous Pamir village of Tagarma, near the Soviet border. On 15 September 1945, Tashkurgan rebels took Igiz-Yar on the road to Yangihissar, while another group of rebels simultaneously took Oitagh, Bostan-Terek and Tashmalik on the road to Kashgar.\n\nBy the end of 1945, Tashkurgan rebels had attacked Kashgar and Yarkand districts. On 2 January 1946, while the Preliminary Peace Agreement was signed in Ürümqi between Ili rebels and Kuomintang representatives under Soviet mediation, rebels took Guma, Kargilik and Poskam, important towns controlling communications between Xinjiang, Tibet and India. On 11 January 1946, the Kuomintang Army counter-attacked the Yarkand military zone, bringing reinforcements from Aksu Region. The counter-attackers repelled Tashkurgan rebels from the outskirts of Yarkand, recaptured the towns of Poskam, Kargilik and Guma and brought the Tashkurgan Region back under Chinese control by the summer of 1946.\n\nOnly a few hundred of the 7000 rebels survived. The survivors retreated to the mountainous Pamir base in Qosrap (village in present-day Akto County). The National Army was partially active in Kashgar and Aksu from 1946 to 1949 until the arrival of People's Liberation Army (PLA) units in Xinjiang.\n\nDeng Liqun, a special envoy of Mao Zedong, arrived at Ghulja on 17 August 1949 to negotiate with the Three Districts leadership about the districts' future. Deng sent a secret telegram to Mao about the Three Districts forces the following day. He listed these forces as including about 14,000 troops, armed mostly with German weapons, heavy artillery, 120 military trucks and artillery-towing vehicles, and around 6,000 cavalry horses. Soviet military personnel were present in the Army and serviced fourteen airplanes, which were used as bombers. On 20 December 1949, the National Army was incorporated into the PLA as its Xinjiang 5th Army Corps.\n\nThe newspaper of East Turkestan was \"Azat Sherkiy Turkistan\" (\"Free Eastern Turkestan\"), first published on 17 November 1944, in Ghulja five days after the establishment of the Second ETR Government. The newspaper was later renamed as \"Inqlawiy Sherkiy Turkistan\" (\"Revolutionary Eastern Turkestan\").\n\nAccording to her autobiography, \"Dragon Fighter: One Woman's Epic Struggle for Peace with China\", Rebiya Kadeer's father served with pro-Soviet Uyghur rebels under the Second East Turkestan Republic in the Ili Rebellion (Three Province Rebellion) in 1944–1946, using Soviet assistance and aid to fight the Republic of China government under Chiang Kai-shek. Kadeer and her family were close friends with White Russian exiles living in Xinjiang and Kadeer recalled that many Uyghurs thought Russian culture was \"more advanced\" than that of the Uyghurs and they \"respected\" the Russians a lot.\n\nIn the Xinjiang conflict, the Soviet Union again backed Uyghur separatists against China, starting in the 1960s. The Soviet Union incited separatist activities in Xinjiang through propaganda, encouraging Kazakhs to flee to the Soviet Union and attacking China. China responded by reinforcing the Xinjiang-Soviet border area specifically with Han Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps (\"Bingtuan\" in Chinese) militia and farmers. The Soviets intensified their broadcasts inciting Uyghurs to revolt against the Chinese via Radio Tashkent since 1967 and directly harbored and supported separatist guerilla fighters to attack the Chinese border, in 1966 there were 5.000 Soviet-sponsored separatist attacks on China. The Soviets transmitted a radio broadcast from Radio Tashkent into Xinjiang on 14 May 1967, boasting of the fact that the Soviets had supported the Second East Turkestan Republic against China. In addition to Radio Tashkent, other Soviet media outlets urged Uyghurs to proclaim independence and revolt against China, including Radio Alma-Ata and the Alma-Ata published \"Sherki Türkistan Evazi\" (\"The Voice of Eastern Turkestan\") newspaper. After the Sino-Soviet split in 1962, over 60,000 Uyghurs and Kazakhs defected from Xinjiang to the Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic, in response to Soviet propaganda which promised Xinjiang independence. Uyghur exiles later threatened China with rumors of a Uyghur \"liberation army\" in the thousands that were supposedly recruited from Sovietized émigrés.\n\nThe Soviet Union was involved in funding and support for the East Turkestan People's Revolutionary Party (ETPRP), the largest militant Uyghur separatist organization in its time, to start a violent uprising against China in 1968. In the 1970s, the Soviets also supported the United Revolutionary Front of East Turkestan (URFET) to fight against the Chinese.\n\n\"Bloody incidents\" in 1966–67 flared as Chinese and Soviet forces clashed along the border as the Soviets trained anti-Chinese guerillas and urged Uyghurs to revolt against China, hailing their \"national liberation struggle\". In 1969, Chinese and Soviet forces directly fought each other along the Xinjiang-Soviet border.\n\nThe Soviet Union supported Uyghur nationalist propaganda and Uyghur separatist movements against China. Soviet historians claimed that the Uyghur native land was Xinjiang and Uyghur nationalism was promoted by Soviet versions of Turcological history. Soviet Turcologists like D.I. Tikhonov wrote pro-independence works on Uyghur history and the Soviet-supported Uyghur historian Tursun Rakhimov wrote more historical works supporting Uyghur independence and attacking the Chinese government, claiming that Xinjiang was an entity created by China from parts of East Turkestan and Zungharia. These Soviet Uyghur historians waged an \"ideological war\" against China, emphasizing the \"national liberation movement\" of Uyghurs throughout history. The Soviet Communist Party supported the publication of works which glorified the Second East Turkestan Republic and the Ili Rebellion against China in its anti-China propaganda war. Soviet propaganda writers wrote works claiming that Uyghurs lived better lives and were able to practice their culture only in Soviet Central Asia and not in Xinjiang. In 1979 Soviet KGB agent Victor Louis wrote a thesis claiming that the Soviets should support a \"war of liberation\" against \"imperial\" China to support Uighur, Tibetan, Mongol and Manchu independence. The Soviet KGB supported Uyghur separatists against China.\n\nXinjiang's importance to China increased after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979, leading to China's perception of being encircled by the Soviets. China supported the Afghan mujahideen during the Soviet invasion, and broadcast reports of Soviet atrocities on Afghan Muslims to Uyghurs in order to counter Soviet propaganda broadcasts into Xinjiang, which boasted that Soviet minorities lived better and incited Muslims to revolt. Chinese radio beamed anti-Soviet broadcasts to Central Asian ethnic minorities like the Kazakhs. The Soviets feared disloyalty among the non-Russian Kazakh, Uzbek and Kyrgyz in the event of Chinese troops attacking the Soviet Union and entering Central Asia. Russians were goaded with the taunt \"Just wait till the Chinese get here, they'll show you what's what!\" by Central Asians when they had altercations. The Chinese authorities viewed the Han migrants in Xinjiang as vital to defending the area against the Soviet Union. China opened camps to train the Afghan Mujahideen near Kashgar and Khotan and supplied them with hundreds of millions of dollars worth of small arms, rockets, mines, and anti-tank weapons.\n\nThe Soviet Union set up similar puppet-states in Pahlavi-dynasty Iran in the form of the Azerbaijan People's Government and Republic of Mahabad. The Soviet Union used comparable methods and tactics in both Xinjiang and Iran upon establishing the Kurdish Republic of Mahabad and Autonomous Republic of Azerbaijan. The American ambassador to the Soviet Union sent a telegram to Washington DC noting the similarity of the situations in Iranian Azerbaijan and in Xinjiang.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157734", "title": "21 Club", "text": "21 Club\n\nThe 21 Club, often simply 21, is an American traditional cuisine restaurant and former prohibition-era speakeasy, located at 21 West 52nd Street in New York City.\n\nThe Bar Room includes a restaurant, a lounge and, as the name implies, a bar. The walls and ceiling of the Bar Room are covered with antique toys and sports memorabilia donated by famous patrons. Perhaps the best known feature of 21 is the line of painted cast iron lawn jockey statues which adorns the balcony above the entrance. In the 1930s, some of the affluent customers of the bar began to show their appreciation by presenting 21 with jockeys painted to represent the racing colors of the stables they owned. There are 33 jockeys on the exterior of the building, and 2 more inside the doors.\n\nThe first version of the club opened in Greenwich Village in 1922, run by cousins Jack Kreindler and Charlie Berns. It was originally a small speakeasy known as the Red Head. In 1925 the location was moved to a basement on Washington Place and its name was changed to Frontón. The following year it moved uptown to 42 West 49th Street, changed its name to the Puncheon Club, and became much more exclusive. In late 1929, to make way for the construction of Rockefeller Center, the club moved to its current location and changed its name to \"Jack and Charlie's 21\".\n\nAlthough raided by police on many occasions during Prohibition, the premises staff had methods to protect the club from the authorities. As soon as a raid began, a system of levers was used to tip the shelves of the bar, sweeping the liquor bottles through a chute and into the city's sewers. The bar also included a secret wine cellar, which was accessed through a hidden door in a brick wall which opened into the basement of the building next door (number 19). Though still used as a wine cellar today, part of the vault has been remodeled to allow a party of up to 20 guests to dine in private. 21 also stored the private wine collections of John F. Kennedy; Richard Nixon; Gerald Ford; Joan Crawford; Elizabeth Taylor; Hugh Carey; Ernest Hemingway; The Nordstrom sisters; Frank Sinatra; Al Jolson; Gloria Vanderbilt; Sophia Loren; Mae West; Aristotle Onassis; Gene Kelly; Gloria Swanson; Judy Garland; Sammy Davis, Jr.; and Marilyn Monroe.\n\nAt Christmas time, the regular clientele received silk scarves decorated with a motif of the club insignia. Each scarf is numbered and has the Jockey logo and also features the railings associated with the building. Some of the most unusual and desirable were designed by Ray Strauss, founder of Symphony Scarves, in the 50s and 60s. A number of these can be seen in a 1989 book by Andrew Baseman, \"The Scarf\". Siggie Nordstrom had a collection of several dozen of these she'd received through the years.\n\nThe prestigious International Debutante Ball, which has presented many daughters and granddaughters of United States Presidents to high society at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City, has hosted its pre-ball parties at 21 Club.\n\nIn 1985, the Kriendler and Berns families sold their interests in the restaurant to General Felt Industries, a holding company headed by Marshall S. Cogan and Stephen Swid. Ten years later, Cogan and Swid sold the restaurant to Orient-Express Hotels. In 1995 it became part of Orient-Express Hotels Ltd. which in 2014 changed its name to Belmond Ltd.\n\nOn January 24, 2009, it ended its long-standing policy of requiring men to wear neckties at dinner. Wearing a jacket, however, is still required, and loaner jackets by Michael Kors and Ralph Lauren are available for men to borrow if they have neglected to bring one.\n\nIn summer of 2015 all 37 jockeys were removed for a three-month artist restoration and returned on October 21, 2015 for a ribbon cutting.\n\nSince 2003, the restaurant has been a recipient of the \"Wine Spectator\" Grand Award.\n\nIn 2017, \"Zagat\" gave it a food rating of 4.3 out of 5.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157739", "title": "Feng Chia University", "text": "Feng Chia University\n\nFeng Chia University (FCU; ) is a private research university in Taiwan, located in Taichung. It was named after Chiu Feng-Chia one of the leaders of the military resistance against the Japanese invasion of Taiwan in 1895.\n\nFeng Chia University ranked ninth in Taiwan and 78th in Asia in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2015 - Computer Science & Information Systems. FCU was listed as the top private comprehensive university in the 2016 QS Asia University Rankings. Feng Chia University has partnership with Purdue University, RMIT University, University of Zaragoza , and San Jose State University.\n\nIn 1961, the Feng Chia College of Engineering and Business was established on Guanyin Mountain in Beitun District of Taichung City. Two years later it was moved to its present location in Xitun District in central Taiwan.\n\nUniversity status was granted in 1980 and the name changed to Feng Chia University (FCU). For over 50 years, FCU has steadily increased in size and scope. Currently, it comprises eight schools and colleges: the School of Management Development, and the colleges of Engineering, Business, Sciences, Humanities and Social Sciences, Information and Electrical Engineering, Construction and Development, and Finance. In total, FCU offers 57 Bachelor's, 76 Master's and 14 doctoral degree programs. Over 20,000 students are currently enrolled in undergraduate, Master's degree, doctoral degree and master's degree programs for working professionals. There are 2,200 faculty and administrative staff and over 160,000 alumni. Since 2008, surveys of executives from Taiwan's top 1,000 enterprises have consistently ranked FCU in the 'top 10' for the quality of its graduates.\n\nIn 2008, the APEC Research Center for Advanced Biohydrogen Technology was established on the FCU campus. In 2009, the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) designated the Geographic Information Systems Research Center as the first Asian standards testing center, as well as one of 20 official principal members.\n\nThe university has 20,000 graduate and undergraduate students yearly in its nine colleges of Engineering, Business, Sciences, Construction and Development, Information and Electrical Engineering, Finance, Humanities and Social Sciences, School of Management and Development, School of Technology and Management. There are 33 academic departments (excluding undeclared honors programs), four independent graduate institutes and three independent doctoral programs.\n\nIn total, FCU offers 57 Bachelor's, 76 Master's and 14 doctoral degree programs. Since 2008, surveys of executives from Taiwan's top 1,000 enterprises have consistently ranked FCU in the top 10 for the quality of its graduates.\n\nFCU research papers in the fields of engineering, materials science and engineering, and computer science have been included among the 'top 1%' of published research papers in the Essential Science Indicators (ESI) database. In 2008, the APEC Research Center for Advanced Biohydrogen Technology was established on the FCU campus. In 2009, the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) designated the Geographic Information Systems Research Center as the first Asian standards testing center, as well as one of 20 official principal members.\n\nFCU has had great success in industry-academia collaborations and has completed research and development on a number of commercial products, as well as actively encourages faculty and students to set up their own businesses. Through its patent licensing and technology transfer programs, FCU has created many business opportunities. It is only the third university in Taiwan to complete and receive marks of excellence on five National Science Council technology transfer projects.\nIn March 2017, Apple recently established Taiwan's first Apple Regional Training Center at FCU, which makes FCU the only university in Taiwan authorized to conduct Apple-certified training courses. In the future, all instructors in the Apple App teacher development program will be trained at FCU.\n\nFCU has continually sought to carry out breakthrough research and to cultivate interdisciplinary research teams to elevate its R&D capabilities. There are 37 specialized research centers on campus, including the Green Energy Development Center, Geographic Information Systems Research Center, Construction and Disaster Prevention Research Center, Information and Communication Security Research Center, and Center for Tang Dynasty Culture. Every year, these centers carry out research and participate in industry-academia collaborative projects, the collective value of which ranks at the top of Taiwan's universities. In addition, these projects provide valuable information for scholars and important contributions to society.\n\nFCU recruits outstanding scholars from Taiwan and abroad. In the past three years, more than 40 chair professors have joined the faculty. They include Chin-Chen Chang, who is considered Taiwan's father of cryptography, and Chung-Jen Hsu, former general manager of Uni-President Enterprises Corporation and the godfather of Taiwan's logistics industry. Professor Chang is ranked number two in the world for the number of published research papers that have been included in the computer science database of the Digital Bibliography & Library Projects (DBLP).\n\nThe Green Energy Development Center has developed an anaerobic bioreactor. This bioreactor yields 151/hr biogas from every liter of anaerobic sludge, making it one of the best performing bioreactors in the world. Due to these and other achievements, FCU was chosen as the site for the APEC Research Center for Advanced Biohydrogen Technology, which was established in cooperation with APEC and the National Science Council. In addition, the Taiwan branch of the International Association for Hydrogen Energy (IAHE) has been established on the FCU campus. In 2011, FCU completed the world's first Bio-H2 gas station.\n\nThe Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Research Center has twice been honored by the US-based Environmental Systems Research Institute (ESRI) with a Special Achievement in GIS award. In 2010, this research center was invited to join the European Union's Plan4All project; among its 25 collaborative partners, FCU was the only academic organization from Taiwan. In that same year, the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) approved the GIS Research Center as its first software standards compliance testing center in Asia. It was also named one of 20 OGC principal members.\n\nThe Construction and Disaster Prevention Research Center brings together talent from the fields of civil engineering, hydraulic engineering, water resources engineering and conservation, and geographic information systems. This center has developed technologies with applications for environmental conservation, slope land disaster prevention, and environmental monitoring. It also serves as a long-term partner of the National Science and Technology Center for Disaster Reduction, providing support for local government disaster prevention and rescue efforts. This center participated in the rebuilding efforts that followed Typhoon Morakot and received awards for its contributions and achievements from the Executive Yuan.\n\nIn cooperation with Renmin University of China, the Center for the Tang Dynasty Culture spent six years proofreading and editing the \"Quan Tangfu\" (The Complete Tang Odes). The center's edited version of this important ancient Chinese compilation has been included in many library collections in Europe, North America, Japan, and Korea, thus putting this research center on the map for the caliber of its Tang Dynasty research.\n\n\nIn 2017, FCU ranked as the top private comprehensive university in Taiwan by Times Higher Education \"Best Universities in the Asia-Pacific Region 2017.\" In 2017, FCU ranked as the top private comprehensive university in Taiwan in the Engineering & Technology and Social Sciences & Management categories. In addition, for the third consecutive year, FCU ranked as the number one private comprehensive university in Taiwan in the Engineering & Technology category's Computer Science & Information Systems by the Quacquarelli Symonds.\n\nIn 2016, FCU was the top private comprehensive university in the 2016 QS Asia University Rankings. That same year, FCU was honored with a number one ranking in the Ministry of Education's Program for Promoting Teaching Excellence. Cheers magazine once again honored FCU with top spot in its annual ranking of public and private universities. In 2016, FCU was ranked among Asia University Rankings as 140th by the Quacquarelli Symonds.\n\nIn 2015, Feng Chia University ranked ninth in Taiwan and 78th in Asia in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2015 - Computer Science & Information Systems. FCU once again ranked as the top private comprehensive university in the QS Asia University Rankings. In 2015, FCU was ranked among Asia University Rankings on 171th by the Quacquarelli Symonds. And the individual subject world rankings from QS put FCU on 317th in Computer Science.\n\nIn 2014, FCU rated in the top 100 in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings (BRICS and Emerging Economies Ranking). FCU was ranked among Asia University Rankings on 153th by the Quacquarelli Symonds. And the individual subject world rankings from QS put FCU on 106th in Accounting & Finance.\n\nIn 2013, FCU was ranked among Asia's top 100 universities by the UK's The Times Higher Education Supplement.\n\nIn 2012, FCU was ranked among the top 100 global \"Emerging\" universities in a survey published in the UK's The Times Higher Education Supplement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157741", "title": "Jon Schwartz (drummer)", "text": "Jon Schwartz (drummer)\n\nJon \"Bermuda\" Schwartz (born August 18, 1956) is a drummer best known for working with the singer-songwriter \"Weird Al\" Yankovic. The two met while recording \"Another One Rides the Bus\" at the Dr. Demento show on September 14, 1980. Shortly after, Yankovic invited Schwartz to join his band, gave him the nickname \"Bermuda\" (\"Bermuda Schwartz\" being a play on the words \"Bermuda shorts\") and they have worked together ever since. Schwartz is heard and/or seen on all of Yankovic's albums, videos, and concerts.\n\nAlthough born in Chicago, Schwartz grew up in Phoenix. He came from a musical family; his father played accordion, his mother was a singer and piano player, and his brother, session guitarist and producer Richard Bennett, has recorded with countless top artists in Los Angeles and Nashville, and enjoyed lengthy associations touring and recording with Neil Diamond and Mark Knopfler.\n\nSchwartz began drum lessons in 1965, and when his family moved to Los Angeles a few years later, he had decided to become a professional drummer and by the mid-1970s was drumming regularly with a few bands and doing some recording work.\n\nSchwartz first met \"Weird Al\" Yankovic at the Dr. Demento Show on KMET in Los Angeles, September 14, 1980. He has played drums for every \"Weird Al\" concert since 1981, except for three shows during the 2003 \"Poodle Hat\" Tour; a minor illness prevented him from playing the drums, and bassist Steve Jay's friend and collaborator Pete Gallagher, who was working as a tech on that tour, sat-in on the drums while Schwartz handled the electronics, cues, and vocals from behind the drum riser.\n\nSchwartz is also the official band historian, known for keeping meticulous lists and notes, and has archived an unsurpassed collection of unique retail and promo audio and video products from around the world that feature \"Weird Al\" Yankovic either as a performer, director, in a cameo appearance, or named or pictured on the product. Schwartz has an unmatched wealth of photos, memorabilia, and details on his career with Yankovic, and is regularly sourced for rare and behind-the-scenes images or other materials and information for TV shows, publications, and audio and video releases having to do with Yankovic.\n\nIn between Yankovic projects, Schwartz continues to play with other L.A.-area artists and bands and has worked with Rip Masters, Jim Silvers, Karling Abbeygate, Idle Hands, Ray Campi, Raymond and Scum, ApologetiX (specifically the album \"Biblical Graffiti\", where he played drums on seven of the tracks), Lousy Little Gods, Brian Sisson, Crown City Bombers, and The Zero G Band.\n\nSchwartz has enjoyed a respectable online presence since 1993. Schwartz began designing web sites in 1995, and grew it into a side-business that now includes other graphic design work such as CD layouts and book cover art. He also created the official \"Weird Al\" Yankovic website in 1995, which later became weirdal.com. He continues to maintain it, along with his own site and several others. He is an administrator for the World of \"Weird Al\" Yankovic and Drummerworld forums, and regularly participates in various forums with the username \"bermuda\".\n\nSchwartz and his wife live in Southern California with their dog Nigel.\n\nThe \"You're Pitiful\" and \"Whatever You Like\" singles were released as digital downloads only.\nGrammy Awards\n\nGold and platinum records\nThe \"Eat It\" single reached the #1 position on the Australian singles chart in 1984.\n\nThe \"White & Nerdy\" single was certified platinum for digital downloads and gold for ringtone downloads in the U.S.\n"}
{"id": "2157744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157744", "title": "Lida, Nevada", "text": "Lida, Nevada\n\nLida, Nevada is a small ghost town in Esmeralda County, Nevada, near the border with California. The GNIS classifies it as a populated place. It is located on State Route 266, north of Magruder Mountain.\n\nThe first settlement at Lida was made in 1871. A post office was in operation at Lida between 1873 and 1932. \n\nLike other mining towns in Esmeralda County, its population sharply declined once its mines were exhausted. The site now rests on private property.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157749", "title": "Michael Straight", "text": "Michael Straight\n\nMichael Whitney Straight (September 1, 1916 – January 4, 2004) was an American magazine publisher, novelist, patron of the arts, a member of the prominent Whitney family, and a confessed spy for the KGB.\n\nStraight was born in New York City, the son of Willard Dickerman Straight (1880–1918), an investment banker who died in Michael's infancy, and Dorothy Payne Whitney (1887–1968), a philanthropist. Straight was educated at Lincoln School in New York City and, after his mother's remarriage to Leonard Knight Elmhirst (1893–1974), in England at his family's Dartington Hall, followed by studies at the London School of Economics. His siblings were racing driver Whitney Straight and Academy Award-winning actress Beatrice Straight.\n\nStraight's maternal grandparents were Flora Payne and William Collins Whitney (1841–1904), the United States Secretary of the Navy during the first Cleveland administration. Flora was the daughter of Senator Henry B. Payne of Ohio and sister of Colonel Oliver Hazard Payne.\n\nWhile a student at Trinity College, Cambridge in the mid-1930s, Straight became a Communist Party member and a part of an intellectual secret society known as the Cambridge Apostles. Straight worked for the Soviet Union as part of a spy ring whose members included Donald Maclean, Guy Burgess, Kim Philby and KGB recruiter Anthony Blunt, who had briefly been Straight's lover. A document from Soviet archives of a report that Blunt made in 1943 to the KGB states, \"As you already know the actual recruits whom I took were Michael Straight\".\n\nAfter returning to the United States in 1937, Straight worked as a speechwriter for President Franklin D. Roosevelt and was on the payroll of the Department of the Interior. Beginning in 1938, Straight carried on a covert relationship with Iskhak Akhmerov, the KGB spy. In 1940, Straight went to work in the Eastern Division of the United States Department of State.\n\nIn 1942, Straight joined the United States Army Air Forces, where he served as the pilot of a Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress, although he never saw combat. After the war, he took over as publisher of \"The New Republic\", which was owned by his family. During his tenure, Straight hired former US vice president and future presidential candidate Henry A. Wallace to serve as the magazine's editor. Straight's writing for the magazine included a glowing review of J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\" when it was published. In 1956, Straight left the magazine and began writing novels.\n\nHowever, in 1963, in response to an offer of government employment in Washington, D.C., Straight faced a background check, and decided voluntarily to inform family friend and presidential special assistant Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. about his communist connections at Cambridge. This led directly to the exposure of Blunt as the recruiter of the Cambridge Five spy ring.\n\nStraight served as the deputy chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts from 1969 to 1977. In 1988, he published \"Nancy Hanks: An Intimate Portrait\", which told the story of the second chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts, with whom he had worked.\n\nStraight wrote several novels, including \"Carrington\" (1960), about the Fetterman massacre of 1866, and \"A Very Small Remnant\" (1963), about the Sand Creek massacre of 1864, both Westerns that received respectful reviews, as well as \"Happy and Hopeless\" (1979), a love story set in the Kennedy Administration that he published himself. In 1983, Straight detailed his Communist activities in a memoir entitled \"After Long Silence\". (). His second memoir, \"On Green Spring Farm: The Life and Times of One Family in Fairfax County, Va., 1942 to 1966\" was published posthumously by Devon Press.\n\nIn September 1939, he married Belinda Crompton (1920–2015) of Wilton, New Hampshire who was a child psychiatrist. Together with Belinda, until their divorce in 1969, he had five children:\n\n\nIn 1965, Straight purchased the former Georgetown home of Jackie Kennedy, located at 3017 N Street, for $200,000 (). Kennedy bought the home when she moved out of the White House and Straight purchased it when Kennedy moved to New York City.\n\nIn 1974, Straight married his second wife, Nina G. Auchincloss Steers, the daughter of Nina Gore and Hugh D. Auchincloss. Steers was the half-sister of writer Gore Vidal and, coincidentally, a stepsister of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. Nina had previously been married to Newton Steers from 1957–1974 and with him she had three children: Hugh Auchincloss Steers (1963–1995), Ivan Steers, and Burr Steers (born 1965). The wedding was attended by Hugh D. Auchincloss, Janet Auchincloss, Jackie Kennedy, Renata Adler, Beatrice Straight, and Peter Cookson. Straight lived in the Georgetown home from 1964 until 1976 when he sold it to Yolande Bebeze Fox, the former Miss America 1951. Straight and his wife spent $125,000 () renovating the home and decided to move to Bethesda, Maryland in 1976 when he was vice chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts.\n\nThey subsequently divorced and in 1998, he married Katharine Gould, a child psychiatrist and art historian. Straight died of pancreatic cancer at his home in Chicago, Illinois, on January 4, 2004, aged 87. He also had a home on Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157751", "title": "Île Platte", "text": "Île Platte\n\nPlatte Island or Île Platte is an island in the Southern Coral Group that is part of the Outer Islands of the Seychelles.\n\nThe island is located south of the Seychelles Bank at . Coëtivy Island (also Southern Coral Group) lies further southeast. Platte Island is located south of Mahé, the main island of the Seychelles, and from their capital Victoria.\n\nThe island, a low and wooded sand cay, ranges about from north to south, with a width from in the south to in the north and a land area of . Its height is 3 m above the sea level.\nPlatte was discovered and named in 1769 for its low topography by Lieutenant de Lampériaire of \"La Curieuse\". And it also known by its nickname ″ill Pllate″.\n\nIn the 1840s there was sufficient guano on the island to make it worthwhile excavating, and it was still won in the 20th century. A visitor in 1905 stated that 1500 tons had been taken off the island the month before he arrived. He also reported on the island's “beautiful plantation of coconuts which yields about 20,000 a month,” the fine condition of the palms presumably due to the guano rich soil. The island was not always so productive. In 1864 the Great Britain Civil Commissioner complained that “despite 18 years’ occupation only 17 coconut trees have been planted”.\n\nIn 1828 Platte was proposed as a suitable location for an isolation camp for leprosy sufferers, but in 1838 the island was taken over by the British administration for use as a quarantine station for visiting ships instead. It did not prove entirely satisfactory. Being at some distance from authority, the crews of the ships, in particular the whalers, tended to run amok, causing “depredations”. By 1864 the Civil Commissioner had further complaints about the use of Platte as a quarantine island. He did not think it ”of much potential utility because it is 71 miles from Mahé and vessels of 500 tons burden cannot approach nearer than 5 miles because of the dangerous reef. Also during the SE monsoon it is almost inaccessible to any vessel”. He was dubious as to the possibility of building any infrastructure on the island because “an erection on Flat Island would be…expensive – it is entirely coral with no timber, trees having been removed to plant coconuts…The only house is a hut constructed of leaves. No provisions except for fish are available. There is sufficient dead wood to burn lime and there is coral for building but all labourers and rations would have to come from Mahé at great expense”. He noted that the last time a ship was put in quarantine, Long Island was actually used, but his preference was to use Moyenne Island as the quarantine station.\n\nBarrier reefs, over which the sea breaks heavily, extend north, east, and south of the island, making it a pseudo-atoll. Within the barrier reefs, the lagoon is quite smooth, and landing is safe and easy.\n\nA submerged coral reef rim extends west and south of the island, obviously the remnants of a sunken atoll, creating a complex of almost in length north-south and in width east-west and covering an area of roughly 270 km.\n\nThere are two tricky passages through the reef on the northwest side, available only for small vessels with local knowledge only. La Perle Reef lies at the southwestern end of the reef rim, about southwest of Platte Island. Depths of less than can exist on this reef where breakers have been observed.\n\nThere is a small settlement on the western shore with the manager's house and a few guest cottages to the northwest. There is also an abandoned Church and abandoned hospital. The Island Development Company (IDC) plans to build a hotel instead of the guesthouses\n\nPlatte island is administered by the Island Development Company (IDC). Due to its small population, there are no government buildings or services. Many services are only provided in the Seychelles' capital Victoria, which is difficult to reach. Workers have to undergo a medical examination before coming to the Island to prove their physical ability to stay there for a longer term without quick access to health care. The IDC replenishes all consumption goods needed by Platte island every three month, e.g. food, fuel, medicine, and working equipment.\n\nPlatte island is bisected by a 1000 m airfield that follows the long north-south axis, 23 m wide east-west, and 3 m above the sea level. The island is occasionally serviced by an Island Development Company (IDC) aircraft from Mahé.\n\nPlatte Island also has a jetty 3 m deep that a landing craft of 400-500 t can reach at a minimum tide of 1.5 m.\n\nThe inhabitants on the island are engaged in very small scale farming and fishing activities mainly for self-supply as of 2004. An plan proposed by IDC for Platte's development in the future involves a mixture of tourism, fishery, agriculture, building development and conservation.\n\nThe island is known for its rich fish life. The red-footed booby and sooty tern used to breed there but are now extinct. The brown noddy and white-tailed tropicbird still breed while hundreds of lesser noddies and bridled terns roost at night. Barn owls were introduced in 1949 but died out in 1951-1952. The red fody also breeds on the island. A year-long turtle study conducted in 1998 demonstrated that Platte has significant populations of some 40 female hawksbill sea turtles nesting annually.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157752", "title": "Farm Fresh Onions", "text": "Farm Fresh Onions\n\nFarm Fresh Onions is an album by Texas-based folk singer-songwriter Robert Earl Keen, released in the United States on October 7, 2003 (see 2003 in music).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157753", "title": "Catharine Trotter Cockburn", "text": "Catharine Trotter Cockburn\n\nCatharine Trotter Cockburn (16 August 1679 – 11 May 1749) was an English novelist, dramatist, and philosopher. She wrote on moral philosophy, theological tracts, and had a voluminous correspondence.\n\nTrotter's work addresses a range of issues including necessity, the infinitude of space, and the substance, but she focuses on moral issues. She thought that moral principles are not innate, but discoverable by each individual through the use of the faculty of reason endowed by God. In 1702, she published her first major philosophical work, \"A Defence of Mr. Lock's [sic.] An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\". John Locke was so pleased with this defence that he made gifts of money and books to his young apologist acting through Elizabeth Burnet who had first made Locke aware of Trotter's \"Defence\". \n\nHer work attracted the attention of William Warburton, who prefaced her last philosophical work. She also had a request from the biographer Thomas Birch to aid him in compiling a collection of her works. She agreed to the project but died before the work could be printed. Birch posthumously published a two-volume collection entitled \"The Works of Mrs. Catharine Cockburn, Theological, Moral, Dramatic, and Poetical\" in 1751. It is largely through this text that readers and history have come to know her.\n\nCatharine Trotter was born in London, on 16 August, 1674 or 1679. Both her parents were Scotch. Her father, Captain David Trotter, was a commodore in the Royal Navy, personally known to King Charles II, and the Duke of York, who admired his high qualities and appreciated his distinguished services. Captain Trotter assisted in the demolition of Tangier in 1683, and being subsequently sent to convoy the fleet of merchant ships belonging to the Turkey Company, died of the plague at Alexandretta (Iscanderoon), early in the year 1684. His property having fallen into dishonest hands, the two-fold affliction of bereavement and poverty fell at once upon his widow and children. Her mother was Sarah Bellenden, a near relation of Lord Bellenden, and of the Duke of Lauderdale, and the Earl of Perth.\n\nTrotter was raised Protestant but converted to Roman Catholicism at an early age.\n\nDuring the short remainder of King Charles II.’s reign, Mrs. Trotter had a pension from the Admiralty, and Queen Anne made her an allowance of 20 £ a-year. It is to be supposed that the widow also received assistance from her husband’s brother, and from her own high-born and wealthy cousins, in bringing up her two fatherless children. Both were daughters. The elder married Dr. Inglis, a medical officer, who attended the Duke of Marlborough in his campaigns, and became physician-general to the army.\n\nCatharine, the youngest, was early remarkable for her sagacious intellect, for her facility in acquiring knowledge, her cleverness in teaching herself the art of penmanship, and her delight in making extemporary verse. Nothing is recorded of her education, but from her own allusion to it in her \"Poem on the Busts\", it may be inferred to have been slight and ordinary. Nothing, however, could repress her eager desire for information; and obstacles, as usual, proved incentives to effort. She read with avidity, and wrote with emulative zeal; works of imagination occupying, as in such cases they are wont, her childish attention; and these, as her reasoning powers matured, and her judgment became formed, giving place to tractates and treatises on moral philosophy and religion. She taught herself the French language, and, with the assistance of a friend, acquired the Latin. Her \"Verses written at the age of fourteen, and sent to Mr. Beville Higgons, on his sickness and recovery from the small-pox\", though rather a bold avowal of sympathy with the “lovely youth,” and of admiration for his matchless charms,” were evidently well-meant admonitions to resignation, and to the conscientious application of the high qualities and fine “parts” ascribed to him.\nHer muse was always didactic, and although her \"Songs\", after the fashion of her time, were full of amatory context, they inculcated self-government and morality. The professional connections of her father, the aristocratic relationships of her mother, and the celebrity early won by her own extraordinary talents, gained her a large circle of acquaintance; and although straitened in the means of subsistence, and probably possessing little of her own but the earnings of her pen, Trotter moved in the best society, and was a frequent and welcome guest in the houses of the rich and great. Her beauty, and the unaffected sweetness of her manners, bore the charm of unasserted mental superiority.\nTrotter was a precocious and largely self-educated young woman, who had her first novel (\"The Adventures of a Young Lady\", later retitled \"Olinda's Adventures\") published anonymously in 1693, when she was but 14 years old. Her first published play, \"Agnes de Castro\", was staged two years later, in the year 1695, at the Theatre Royal, and printed in the following year, with a dedication to the Earl of Dorset and Middlesex, from which it appears that his Lordship was one of her personal friends and advisers. This tragedy was not based upon historic fact, but upon Aphra Behn’s English translation of a French novel.\n\nIn 1696, she was famously satirised alongside Delarivier Manley and Mary Pix in the anonymous play, \"The Female Wits\". In it, Trotter was lampooned in the figure of \"Calista, a lady who pretends to the learned languages and assumes to herself the name of critic.\" The following year, Trotter addressed to William Congreve a set of complimentary verses on his \"The Mourning Bride\", and thus either created or strengthened the interest which that poet took in her literary proceedings. His published letter to her shows that they had been previously acquainted. \n\nIn 1698, her second tragedy and arguably best-liked play, \"Fatal Friendship\", was performed at the then-new theatre in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields. It was afterwards printed with a dedication to the Princess of Wales, and not only established Trotter's reputation as a dramatic writer, and brought a shower of complimentary verses, but increased the number of her powerful, fashionable, and eminent friends. It may reasonably be supposed, produced great pecuniary profit. \n\nPrefixed to her \"Fatal Friendship\" are many sets of eulogistic verses addressed to the authoress; one by P. Harman, who also wrote the prologue; one by an anonymous writer, probably Lady Sarah Piers; and yet another, written by the playwright, John Hughes, who hailed her as “the first of stage reformers.” The language is plain and unaffected, but occasionally deformed, after the colloquial fashion introduced at the Restoration, by the abbreviated words “ ’em” for them. The plot is commonplace, but well complicated, and it produces some good dramatic situations. The moral drawn at the conclusion is:— “None know their strength, let the most resolute Learn from this story to distrust themselves, Nor think by fear the victory less sure; Our greatest danger is when we’re most secure.\" This tragedy, having been deemed by contemporary critics of the time as the best of Trotter's dramatic compositions, left the reader little cause to join in Dr. Birch's regret that want of space enforced the omission of the four other plays from his edition of her works.\n\nIn 1700, she was one of the presumptuous Englishwomen who, under the several names of the Nine Muses, bewailed in verse the death of John Dryden. She was consequently praised and addressed as a Muse by a troop of admiring rhymers.\n\nEarly in the year 1701, her comedy of \"Love at a Loss, or Most Votes carry it\", was performed at the Theatre Royal, and published in the month of May of the same year, with a dedication to Lady Piers. “She had,” remarks Dr. Birch, “contracted a very early esteem for, and most intimate and unreserved friendship,” with Trotter. Later in the same year, her third tragedy, \"The Unhappy Penitent\", was performed at Drury Lane, and published in August, with a dedication to Lord Halifax, and a set of verses, by Lady Piers, prefixed, inscribed “To the excellent Mrs. Catherine Trotter”. Also in 1701, she wrote her \"Defence of Mr. Locke’s Essay of Human Understanding\", and it was published in May, 1702. This gained for her the personal friendship of Locke and of Lady Masham, and was, through them, the means of introducing her to many eminent persons, among them being Mr. Peter King, then a barrister and member of parliament, who was the maternal nephew of Locke.\n\nConsidering the position and connections of her parents, it is probable that Trotter had not been trained at an early age to piety, and consequently when a crisis of the soul occurred, she probably met with a Roman Catholic teacher, and, as a natural result, she zealously adopted his creed. In this she continued for many years, resting quiescently upon its first impressions. Meanwhile, her strict observance of the fast-days proved so injurious to her health, that in October, 1703, her friend and physician, Dr. Denton Nicholas, wrote her a letter of serious remonstrance upon the subject, and desired her “to abate of those rigours of abstinence, as insupportable to a constitution naturally infirm,” requesting that his opinion might be communicated to her friends and to her confessor.\n\nHer health, even at its best, was too delicate to allow her to walk more than a mile to church and back, on a summer's day, without fatigue which amounted to illness; and a weakness of sight always rendered it painful to her to write by candlelight. Yet this fragile woman possessed self-relying energy which enabled her not only to sustain the mental and manual labour of careful literary composition through continuous months and years, but also to transact with methodical exactness all the complicated business attendant upon the performance, printing, and publication of her works.\n\nFrom 1701, until her marriage in 1708, Catherine Trotter kept up a regular correspondence with her friend George Burnet, Esq., of Kemnay. During the greater part of the period he traveled in foreign lands, and more especially at the courts of Berlin and Hanover, where be spread the fame of “la nouvelle Sappho-Ecossoise,” and excited the curiosity of Leibnitz to become acquainted with her philosophical works. It may be inferred from many passages in his letters that he would gladly have raised for himself an amorous interest with this young friend; and from hers, that, with unaffected candour and cordial esteem, she repelled every approach towards a declaration of love. She had many admirers, but never was led by the persuasions of her friends, or the temptations of wealth and rank, to encourage the addresses of men for whom she felt no preference.\n\nIn 1704, Trotter composed a poem on the Duke of Marlborough's gaining the battle of Blenheim, which, being highly approved of by the hero and his family, was put into print. About that period she had some hopes of obtaining, through the powerful interest of the Marlborough family, a pension from the crown, to which her father's long services and losses in the cause of his King and country gave a plausible claim. This, however, she failed to obtain, and received only a gratuity. After the battle of Ramilies, in 1706, she produced another poem in praise of the Duke of Marlborough, and on both occasions her verses were ranked among the best which recorded his fame. In the same year, her tragedy, called \"The Revolution of Sweden\", founded on Vertot's account of Gustavus Ericson, was performed at the Queen's Theatre in the Haymarket; and subsequently printed, with a dedication to Lady Harriet Godolphin, eldest daughter of the great Duke, and after his decease Duchess of Marlborough in her own right.\n\nHer sister, Mrs. Inglis, residing at Salisbury, and her mother spending much of her time there, Catherine was induced to make long visits to that city, extending sometimes to the period of fifteen months. But her favourite abode was at “Mr. Finney’s, in Beaufort Buildings on the Strand,” where, in private lodgings, she could, without domestic restraint or the disturbance of young children, give herself up to literary occupations. Among the happy results of her sojournings at Salisbury was her acquaintance with Bishop Gilbert Burnet, and with his third wife, Elizabeth, eldest daughter of Sir Richard Blake, and widow of Robert Berkeley, Esq, of Spetchley. Mrs. Burnet, who had a large, independent income, took an affectionate interest in Trotter until Mrs. Burnet died in 1709.\n\nIn Trotter's mind a sense of duty towards God, and a desire to reform and benefit the world, were ever predominant; but at different periods of her life she sought to effect this object by different means. In the year 1707, after a course of severe study, deep reflection, and earnest prayer, she abjured the Roman Catholic faith, and wrote and published her \"Two Letters concerning a Guide in Controversies\", to which a preface by Bishop Burnet was prefixed. The first letter was addressed to Mr. Bennet, a priest, and the second to Mr. Harman, as a rejoinder to an answer which she had received. She made strong, clear and reasoned arguments for her change of faith. No scruple ever again affected her staunch adherence to the orthodox faith of the Church of England.\n\nIn the summer of 1707, while staying with Madame de Vere, an invalid who resided at Ockham Mills, near Ripley, Surrey, she met with a young clergyman named Fenn, of whose preaching, conversation, and character, she thoroughly approved. Mr. Fenn fell deeply in love with her, made her an offer of marriage, and obtained for his suit the sanction and intercession of Lady Piers. Catherine Trotter accepted his friendship, and, but for the preference she already felt for another person, would have judged it right to marry him. The favoured rival was Rev. Patrick Cockburn, a scholar and a gentleman, distantly related to the Burnet family and to her own, with whom she had for some months held a friendly correspondence, in which they discussed those subjects of philosophical and practical religion which were of principal interest to both. The addresses of Mr. Fenn brought mutual conviction, and matters came to a climax.\n\nRev. Cockburn confessed his love, proposed, and was accepted. He took holy orders in the Church of England in 1708, married Trotter, received the “Donative” of Nayland, near Colchester, and, leaving his bride in London to arrange her affairs and to purchase furniture, he took possession of his pastoral charge in June, and welcomed her to their new home in the autumn of the same year.\n\nHow long they resided there, neither Dr. Birch nor Trotters's writings suggest; but, in the course of time, Rev. Cockburn accepted the curacy of St. Dunstan's Church, Fleet-street, and returned with his family to London, where they resided until the year 1714, when the death of Queen Anne took place. The oath of abjuration required on the accession of King George I. aroused scruples in the mind of Rev. Cockburn, and he refused to take it, although he conscientiously offered up the public prayers for the reigning sovereign and the royal family. He was consequently deprived of his employment in the church, and reduced to poverty. During the next twelve years, he maintained his family by teaching Latin to the students of the Academy in Chancery Lane, while his wife, ever anxious for self-improvement, took up household duties, industriously applied herself to needlework, and all sorts of manual occupations, and cheerfully devoted her faculties to the solace of her husband, and to the education of her children.\n\nFrom the year of her marriage, 1708, until 1724, Trotter had published nothing. In the latter year, she wrote her \"Letter to Dr. Holdsworth\", and having sent it to him, and received an elaborate controversial answer, she published her \"Letter\" in January, 1727. To this, Dr. Winch Holdsworth publicly replied, and Trotter wrote an able rejoinder; but the booksellers not being willing to undertake its responsibility, the \"Vindication of Mr. Locke’s Christian Principles from the injurious imputations of Dr. Holdsworth\", remained in manuscript until it was published among her collected works.\n\nThe best of her productions in verse was \"A Poem, occasioned by the Busts set up in the Queen’s Hermitage, designed to be presented with a book in vindication of Mr. Locke, which was to have been inscribed to Her Majesty\". With considerable skill and persuasive sweetness she drew an argument from the honour done by Queen Caroline to the busts of Clarke, Locke, and Newton, and the patronage which Her Majesty had extended even to the rural bard, Nicholas Duck. Although much has been said and written about Locke by the ablest metaphysicians of his age, and of each succeeding generation, it may be questioned whether his own meaning in his own words has ever been more truly construed than by Trotter. What she wrote concerning his opinions during his life was approved by Locke himself; what she wrote of them after his decease was acknowledged to be correct by his most intimate associates, to whom he had frequently and familiarly expounded them.\n\nIn 1726, Rev. Cockburn convinced himself of the propriety of taking the Oath of Abjuration upon the ascension of George I, to which he had so long objected. He was appointed to St. Paul's Chapel in Aberdeen in the following year. Thither he was accompanied by his family; and his wife bade, in that year, an everlasting farewell to London, the scene of her many triumphs and many trials.\n\nSoon after their removal, her friend, the Lord High Chancellor King, presented her husband to the living of Long Horseley, near Morpeth, in the county of Northumberland; but they continued at Aberdeen until the year 1737, when the Bishop of Durham ordered him to take up his residence in his parish. The clerical residence stood so far from the church of Long Horseley, that when rough weather and feeble health disabled Trotter from riding on horseback to attend the Sunday services, she was constrained to stay at home, unless a still more distant neighbor, Mrs. Ogle, chanced to be in the country, and to give her a seat in her chaise and four, or her coach and six.\n\nIn 1732, while living at Aberdeen, she wrote the \"Verses occasioned by the Busts in the Queen’s Hermitage\", which were printed in the \"Gentleman’s Magazine\" for May 1737. In August, 1743, her \"Remarks upon some Writers in the Controversy concerning the Foundation of Moral Duty and Obligation\" were published in a serial called \"The History of the Works of the Learned\". These ‘\"Remarks\" were well received, and excited great admiration, and Trotter's friend, Dr. Sharp, archdeacon of Northumberland, having read them in manuscript, engaged her in an epistolary discussion on the subject of which they treat. The correspondence began August 8, 1743, and was concluded October 2, 1747.\n\nDr. Rutherford's \"Essay on the Nature and Obligations of Virtue\" having appeared in 1744, her active mind was again aroused for public controversy, and in April 1747, her \"Remarks upon the Principles and Reasonings of Dr. Rutherford’s Essay on the Nature and Obligations of Virtue, in Vindication of the contrary Principles and Beasonings enforced in the Writings of the late Dr. Samuel Clarke\", were published with a preface by Bishop Warburton. The extraordinary reputation acquired by this able work, suggested to some friends, who submitted the scheme to Lady Isabella Finch, the thought of raising a subscription for the republication of all Trotter's works, which the author herself undertook to edit. This plan was zealously supported by Trotter's fashionable and eminent friends, but uncontrollable circumstances prevented its full execution.\n\nIn some verses entitled \"Calliope’s Directions how to Deserve and Distinguish the Muse’s Inspirations\", the strong, clear sense of Trotter is conspicuously shown by her definition of the uses of tragic, comic, and satiric poetry. Of course, as Calliope, she presided only over heroic strains and general eloquence, and it would have been inappropriate to treat of any other kind of verse. The quotation of a few lines demonstrates the style:—\n\nTrotter's long suspension from writing -sixteen to eighteen years- was noted by the public, as was her resumption of writing. The commentators upon her works over-restrained her own words on the first part of this subject, and drawn from them an unwarranted inference. It should be understood that during those years, Trotter read few new books, yet she had undoubtedly possessed her Bible, the works of Shakespeare and Milton, of Lord Bacon, Cudworth, and Bishop Cumberland. She had lived so long in the propulsive centre of British activity that, when sunk into obscurity, the gathering in of her reflections enriched her more than continued opportunities of observation would have done; and her fine faculties were kept bright and keenly edged by constant use. Extracts of her controversial writings show her style.\n\nIn the preface to her \"Letter to Dr. Holdsworth\", Trotter said the following, with the person here alluded to probably being Lord King:—\n\nIn a letter to her niece, dated “Long Horseley, September 29, 1748,” Trotter said:—\n\nIt is interesting to know Trotter's opinion of the most illustrious of all her contemporaries, Bishop Butler. In letters to Mrs. Arbuthnot, written at Aberdeen, in 1738, she thus mentions him:—\n\nIn letters of subsequent date, Mrs. Cockburn repeatedly mentioned Bishop Butler with a still deeper sense of the value of his writings. Dating from “Long Horseley, October 2, 1747,” and again addressing Mrs. Arbuthnot, she said the following, which was an all-sufficient exposition of Trotter's theological opinions:— \n\nMr. and Mrs. Cockburn had three daughters, Mary, Catherine, and Grissel, and one son, John. A letter of advice to the former, written by his mother for his guidance in early manhood, is full of wisdom and piety. Religion, employment, and women, are the subjects of her discourse. Under the second she says :—“ Divinity is the profession you have been designed for from your birth; but let no views determine your choice to that sacred calling but a sincere desire of promoting the glory of God, and the salvation of men.”\n\nIn subsequent letters to her niece, Mrs. Arbuthnot, Trotter often alludes to her “good son” with all the satisfaction of a happy mother. In 1743, a daughter died; and in January, 1749, her husband did as well. Under this severe shock, her feeble health gave way. Trotter died at Longhorsley near Morpeth on 11 May 1749. She was buried beside her husband and her youngest daughter, at Longhorsley, and on their tomb was inscribed one sentence, altered from Proverbs xxxi. 31, “Let their own works praise them in the gates.”\n\nDespite her one-time renown, Trotter's reputation has steadily waned over the last three centuries and has only been rescued from near obscurity by the efforts of feminist critics, such as Anne Kelley, in the last two decades. Arguably, the predicament of her reputation is attributable to her having written a large amount of work very early in her life and less in her mature years. In other words, her career was extremely front-loaded, and the literati of her period (especially the men) tended to focus on her youth and beauty at the expense of her work. Some literary historians attribute her relative obscurity to a persistent emphasis being placed upon her philosophical work at the expense of her creative writing (especially by her biographer Thomas Birch, who included only one play in his two volume collection of her work and did not mention \"Olinda's Adventures\" at all). Though skillful, her philosophical writings were sometimes dismissed as derivative, especially her defence of Locke's Essay—a judgment that could hardly help her reputation.\n\nMuch of the scholarly interest in Trotter's dramatic writing now centres on gender studies. Indeed, Trotter herself was cognisant of the limitations her gender placed upon her and often voiced her protest in writing. In the dedication to \"Fatal Friendship\" (1698), for example, she remarks that \"when a Woman appears in the World under any distinguishing Character, she must expect to be the mark of ill Nature,\" especially if she enters into \"what the other Sex think their peculiar Prerogative.\" Both Trotter's literary works, in which women dominate the action, and her personal life provide rich subject matter for feminist criticism.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157761", "title": "BGM-109G Ground Launched Cruise Missile", "text": "BGM-109G Ground Launched Cruise Missile\n\nThe Ground Launched Cruise Missile, or GLCM, (officially designated BGM-109G Gryphon) was a ground-launched cruise missile developed by the United States Air Force in the last decade of the Cold War and destroyed under the INF Treaty.\n\nThe BGM-109G was developed as a counter to the mobile MRBM and IRBM nuclear missiles (SS-20 Saber) deployed by the Soviet Union in Eastern Bloc European countries. The GLCM and the U.S. Army's Pershing II may have been the incentives that fostered Soviet willingness to sign the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty (INF treaty), and thus possibly reduced the threat of nuclear wars in Europe. GLCM is also a generic term for any ground-launched cruise missile. Since the U.S. deployed only one modern cruise missile in the tactical role, the GLCM name stuck. The GLCM was built by General Dynamics.\n\nA conventionally configured cruise missile, the BGM-109 was essentially a small, pilotless flying machine, powered by a turbofan engine. Unlike ballistic missiles, whose aimpoint is usually determined by gravitic trajectories, a cruise missile is capable of complicated aerial manoeuvres, and can fly a range of predetermined flight plans. Also, it flies at much lower altitudes than a ballistic missile, typically with a terrain-hugging flight plan. The trade-off for this low-observability flight is strike time; cruise missiles travel far more slowly than a ballistic weapon, and the GLCM was typical in this regard.\nGLCM was developed as a ground-launched variant of the Tomahawk missile in use by the U.S. Navy (along with an undeveloped air-launched version, the Medium Range Air to Surface Missile (MRASM)) Unlike other variants of the Tomahawk, the GLCM carried only a W84 thermonuclear warhead; no conventional capability was provided. The W84 warhead is a 0.2–150kt variable-yield weapon. This yield contrasts with the yield of the W80 warhead found on other versions of the Tomahawk and on the ALCM from which the W84 was derived, which has a selectable yield of 5 or 150 kt. The Pentagon credited the GLCM with a range of 2000–2500 kilometers. Like other U.S. cruise missiles of this period, accuracy after more than 2000 km of flight was approximately 30 meters. The missile was entirely subsonic, powered by a turbofan engine with a rocket booster assisting at launch.\n\nMilitarily, the GLCM was targeted against fixed targets—at the outer edge of its range, the missile's flight time with its subsonic turbofan was more than 2½ hours. The missiles were launched from an elevated launcher, with the missile ejected from its canister for about 13 seconds of solid rocket booster flight. The fins extended at 4 seconds, the air inlet and wings deployed at 10 seconds and the jet engine started at the end of the boost phase. Flying at low level, the missile was guided by TERCOM (terrain contour matching) to the target.\n\nThis contrasted strongly with Pershing II, which had a flight time of 10–15 minutes. However, the range of the GLCM gave it the ability to strike deep within then-Soviet territory, and the missile guidance and low radar cross-section would have made it far more difficult to intercept a GLCM even if the launch were detected in time.\n\nBGM-109G personnel were trained at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, Arizona, by the 868th Tactical Missile Training Squadron from 1 July 1981. On 1 October 1985, the squadron became part of the 868th Tactical Missile Training Group. The group and squadron were inactivated on 31 May 1990. An area near Fort Huachuca, Arizona was used for field training for GLCM flights. GLCM testing was conducted at the Dugway Proving Ground in Utah, with many of the people involved in the testing going to operational wings as they were activated.\n\nBGM-109G missiles would be based at six locations throughout Europe; in the United Kingdom (at RAF Greenham Common and RAF Molesworth), Belgium, Netherlands, Germany, and Comiso Air Station in Italy. Each location had its own unique problems, but all required extensive construction by the USAF. Initial operating capability (IOC) occurred in 1983.\n\nNormal basing was in blast shelters at military installations. Each BGM-109G station was controlled by a Wing that consisted of a Tactical Missile Squadron (TMS), which was responsible for operation and deployment of the missiles; and a Tactical Missile Maintenance Squadron (TMMS), which was responsible for the support of the system. Each TMS consisted of several flights, made up of 69 people and 22 vehicles.\nThe missile was designed to operate in a flight with sixteen missiles. The flight would be normally on base, with the missiles and vehicles secured in the hardened storage area called the GAMA (GLCM Alert and Maintenance Area).\n\nFour transporter erector launchers (TEL) each carried four BGM-109G missiles in their containers and ready for launch. Two launch control centers (LCC), each with two launch officers, were connected to the TELs and interconnected for launch. Each TEL and LCC was towed by a large MAN KAT1 8x8 tractor and was capable of traversing rough terrain. There were 16 support vehicles for the flight commander, normally a captain, 19 maintenance technicians, a medical technician and 44 security personnel.\n\nDuring periods of increased tension, the flights would be deployed to pre-surveyed, classified locations in the countryside away from the base. The members of the flight would dig in, erect camouflage netting to hide the vehicles, and prepare for launch. Flight commanders were tasked to survey and select possible deployment sites, with all details closely held, and the commander selected the location preferred when the flight deployed from the base. When deployed, the flight was self-sustaining, and secured with special intrusion detection radar. The launchers (sans warheads) were sent out on a number of simulated scrambles.\n\nAlthough deployed in the face of a range of Soviet IRBMs, including the brand-new and extremely capable SS-20 Saber, the GLCM (sometimes referred to by its phonetic nickname, Glick-em) faced widespread public protest in Europe. Anti-nuclear groups such as the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament felt that the United States was deploying weapons meant to win a tactical nuclear war, without adequate consideration of the effects that even a 'victory' would bring. Critics also argued that the Reagan Administration was unduly escalating tensions in Central Europe. Between them, GLCM and Pershing II made a lethal combination. GLCM missiles could be launched, undetected, followed 2 hours later by a Pershing strike, which would fly so quickly that it was possible no response could be made before the Pershings struck. Aside from presenting a course of action to NATO commanders in the event of war, it put the Kremlin leaders (in range of the GLCM and possibly the Pershing, even in Moscow) in a position of fearing a decapitating NATO first strike, which could have moved them toward a launch on warning policy as the only way to maintain mutually assured destruction.\nHowever, the USSR did have submarine-launched missiles (i.e. Golf and Hotel class SSBNs armed with R-27 Zyb and SS-N-5s) available during this time, so any fears of a decapitating first strike were not necessarily justified.\n\nDespite initial fears of greater instability, the deployment of GLCM ultimately caused Soviet leaders to enter into negotiations for, and finally signature of, the INF treaty. The recognition by Soviet leaders of the threat posed by the GLCM and Pershing II missiles made them far more inclined to agree to negotiate their own intermediate-range weapons, especially the SS-20, out of service, in exchange for the elimination of the threat posed by the GLCM and the Pershing II.\n\nUnlike SALT II or START I, which set limits to maximum nuclear arsenals, the INF Treaty banned whole categories of intermediate-range tactical nuclear weapons outright. All ground-launched cruise missiles and ballistic missiles with ranges greater than 500 but less than 5500 kilometers were barred to the U.S. and USSR under this treaty. This meant the withdrawal of GLCM and Pershing II on the American side. The Soviets withdrew the GLCM's most direct counterpart, the SSC-4 or RK-55, and its supersonic follow-on, the SSC-X-5. In addition, various Soviet MRBMs, IRBMs, and LRBMs were withdrawn: the SS-4 Sandal, SS-5 Skean, SS-12 Scaleboard, SS-20 Saber, SS-22 Scaleboard B, and SS-23 Spider. All of these equivalent weapons had been developed and deployed against NATO forces before the introduction of the GLCM, despite the categorization of the GLCM deployment by communists as 'aggressive'.\n\nGLCM was removed from Europe beginning in 1988, and over the next three and a half years all units were transported to Davis Monthan AFB and destroyed or converted into displays by 1991. Eight missiles survive for inert static display only.\n\nIn February 2018, U.S. military officials confirmed they were developing a new ground-launched, intermediate-range cruise missile to counter Russian development of a similar weapon system that violates the INF Treaty. President Donald Trump announced on 20 October 2018 that he was withdrawing the U.S. from the INF treaty, citing Russian non-compliance. The U.S. formally suspended the treaty on 1 February 2019, and Russia did so the following day.\n\nNote: Each GLCM squadron was further subdivided into several flights. Each flight included 2 Launch Control Vehicles (LCC) and 4 Transporter Erector Launchers (TEL), totalling 16 missiles per flight. Each TEL could carry 4 missiles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157764", "title": "Miguel García García", "text": "Miguel García García\n\nMiguel García García (1908–1981) was a Spanish anarchist and writer. He was a political prisoner during the Franco era.\n\nIn his youth, García became affiliated with libertarianism and his family belonged to the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT). As a young newsboy, after being hurt at a rally for greater pay, he left Barcelona for France, where he learned the language. During the Spanish Civil War, he drove arms across the French border into Republican Spain. While his fellow Barcelonans confronted a government building, García led a cohort to raid gunshops in the wealthier part of the city. During the war, he fought on the Saragossa and Madrid fronts, and after the anarchists' defeat, spent two and a half years in a concentration camp where he befriended Josep Lluís i Facerias and El Quico. Upon their release, they together joined the Spanish Resistance, in which they reorganized the CNT, smuggled guns and people across borders, and sabotaged Franco and the Axis. García was among the few who survived.\n\nGarcía was captured and sentenced to death, but international pressure led his sentence to be reduced to 20 years in prison. He met Stuart Christie in the Carabanchel Prison. García later wrote about his incarceration in \"Franco's Prisoner\". Reviews compared his autobiography to \"In Hiding\", written by a socialist mayor who opposed anarchists. García's book was translated into German. García became fluent in Italian and learned rudimentary English in prison so as to read the English-language press. He decided to travel across Western Europe to speak against Francoist Spain and organize wider resistance. In London, he worked with Albert Meltzer on the Anarchist Black Cross. Meltzer wrote of García's influence on The Angry Brigade, the First of May Group, and the Iberian Liberation Movement, among other groups internationally. García died of tuberculosis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157774", "title": "List of high schools in Orange County, California", "text": "List of high schools in Orange County, California\n\nThis is a list of high schools in Orange County, California. It includes public and private schools and is arranged by school district (public schools) or affiliation (private schools).\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTarbut V' Torah Community Day School\n\nHebrew Academy\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157776", "title": "Chandidas", "text": "Chandidas\n\nChandidas (; born 1408 CE) refers to a medieval poet of Bengal or possibly more than one. Over 1250 poems related to the love of Radha and Krishna in Bengali with the \"bhanita\" of Chandidas are found with three different sobriquets along with his name, \"\", \"Dvija\" and \"Dina\" as well as without any sobriquet also. It is not clear whether these \"bhanita\"s actually refer to the same person or not. It is assumed by some modern scholars that the poems which are current in the name of Chandidas are actually the works of at least four different Chandidas, who are distinguished from each other by their sobriquets found in the \"bhanita\"s. It is also assumed that the earliest of them was Ananta Chandidas, who has been more or less identified as a historical figure born in the 14th century in Birbhum district of the present-day West Bengal state and wrote the lyrical \"Srikrishna Kirtan\" (Songs in praise of Krishna).\n\nIn 1916, the Bangiya Sahitya Parishad published the manuscript of the \"Srikrishna Kirtan\" discovered by Basanta Ranjan Roy Bidwatballabh at Bankura. The \"Srikrishna Kirtan\", as its name suggests, narrates the story of Krishna and his companion Radha. The storyline is derived from Shrimad Bhagavatam. However, Baru Chandidas managed to add substantial originality, making it a masterpiece of medieval Bengali literature. He gives the yearning of Radha a distinctly Bengali rendition, and in the process captures much of the social conditions of the day. As such he is considered to be a prominent Early Middle Bengal poet, however the date of his poem Srikrsnakirtana is still under question, while the text remains one of the most important evidences of early portrayal of the popular story of \"Lord Krishna's love for the cowherd girl Radha\". The 412 songs of Srikrsnakirtana are divided into thirteen sections that represent the core of the Radha-Krsna legendary cycle, with many variants providing excellent comparative material. The manuscript clearly suggests that the songs meant to be song, and implies particular ragas for the recitation. There is a considerable debate as to the authenticity of the text that has significant religious meaning.\n\nAccording to Banglapedia, Chandidas was the first Bengali-language poet to be a humanist. He asserted \"\"Shobar upor manush shotto tahar upore nai\"\" (\"Above all is humanity, none else\"). Later literature has also often eulogized Chandidas' love for a Rajakini (a female cloth washer), whether this has any historical basis is not known.\n\nVaishnava-Sahajiya\n"}
{"id": "2157781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157781", "title": "Jean-Étienne Montucla", "text": "Jean-Étienne Montucla\n\nJean-Étienne Montucla (5 September 1725 – 18 December 1799) was a French mathematician and historian.\n\nMontucla was born at Lyon, France.\n\nIn 1754 he published an anonymous treatise on quadrature, \"Histoire des recherches sur la quadrature du cercle\". Montucla's deep interest in history of mathematics became apparent with his publication of \"Histoire des Mathématiques\", the first part appearing in 1758. According to George Sarton, the \"Histoire\" is\n\nHe was appointed intendant-secretary of Grenoble in 1758, secretary to the expedition for colonizing Cayenne in 1764, and chief architect and censor-royal for mathematical books in 1765.\nIn 1778 he re-edited Jacques Ozanam's \"Recreations mathématiques\", afterwards published in English by Charles Hutton (4 vols, London, 1803).\n\nThe French Revolution deprived him of his income and left him in great destitution. The offer in 1795 of a mathematical chair in one of the schools of Paris was declined on account of his infirm health.\n\nHe was still in straitened circumstances in 1798, when he published a second edition of the first part of his \"Histoire\". After his death, his \"Histoire\" was completed by Jérôme Lalande, and published at Paris in 1799–1802 (4 vols).\n\nIvor Grattan-Guinness described the \"Histoire\" as a milestone:\n"}
{"id": "2157801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157801", "title": "Lolo ball", "text": "Lolo ball\n\nA Lolo Ball, also known as a POGO BAL, Springbal, Lolobal, Disc-O, Pogo ball, or Pogo-It, is a toy. It consists of a seamless figure-8 rubber ball locked into a structurally supported, sturdy plastic platform. To play with it, one stands on the plastic platform, balancing one's weight on the bottom portion of the rubber ball, and jumps or hops around in the same manner as one would use a pogo stick.\n\nInvented by two Belgian men Van Der Cleyen and Ribbens in 1969, the Pogo Bal became a fad in the mid-1980s when Hasbro mass-produced it. Hasbro produced the toy until the early 1990s, and similar products have been made by other manufacturers. One of the current examples of a modern lolo ball are Little Tikes' Pogo-It, released in 2017. It has 2 game modes and a more colorful look complete with LED lights.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157809", "title": "Victoria Building (Ottawa)", "text": "Victoria Building (Ottawa)\n\nThe Victoria Building is an Art Deco office building in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. It is located at 140 Wellington Street, just across from the Parliament of Canada. It houses the offices of a number of parliamentarians, mostly members of the Senate of Canada. The building, designed by John Albert Ewart, was completed in 1928 by private developers, though the federal government quickly leased much of it. It has held a wide variety of tenants. It was the first home of the Embassy of France (1928-1939) and the Bank of Canada from 1935–1938. It also housed the Japanese legation in 1931. From 1938 to 1964 it housed the CBC and for a time was also the home of Ashbury College. The federal government took over the building in 1973 and in 2003 it was renovated.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157812", "title": "Molinia", "text": "Molinia\n\nMolinia, or moor grass, is a genus of two species of flowering plants in the grass family, native to damp moorland in Eurasia and northern Africa. They are both herbaceous perennial grasses.\n\nThe genus is named after Juan Ignacio Molina, a 19th-century Chilean naturalist.\n\n\nsee \"Arctophila Catabrosa Cleistogenes Diarrhena Disakisperma Festuca Glyceria Poa Puccinellia\" \n"}
{"id": "2157817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157817", "title": "Live (Sunny Day Real Estate album)", "text": "Live (Sunny Day Real Estate album)\n\nLive is a live album by American emo band Sunny Day Real Estate. A set list from the How it Feels to Be Something On tour, it was recorded on May 26, 1999, in Eugene, OR and released in the same year through Sub Pop. The VHS included the promo music videos for \"Seven\" and \"In Circles\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2157818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157818", "title": "Granite Railway", "text": "Granite Railway\n\nThe Granite Railway was one of the first railroads in the United States, built to carry granite from Quincy, Massachusetts to a dock on the Neponset River in Milton. From there boats carried the heavy stone to Charlestown for construction of the Bunker Hill Monument. The Granite Railway is popularly termed the first commercial railroad in the United States, as it was the first chartered railway to evolve into a common carrier without an intervening closure. The last active quarry closed in 1963; in 1985, the Metropolitan District Commission purchased , including Granite Railway Quarry, as the Quincy Quarries Reservation.\n\nIn 1825, after an exhaustive search throughout New England, Solomon Willard selected the Quincy site as the source of stone for the Bunker Hill Monument. After many delays and much obstruction, the railway itself was granted a charter on March 4, 1826, with right of eminent domain to establish its right-of-way. Businessman and state legislator Thomas Handasyd Perkins organized the financing of the new Granite Railway Company, owning a majority of its shares, and he was designated its president. The railroad was designed and built by railway pioneer Gridley Bryant and began operations on October 7, 1826. Bryant used developments that had already been in use on the railroads in England, but he modified his design to allow for heavier, more concentrated loads and a three-foot frost line.\n\nThe railway ran from quarries to the Neponset River. Its wagons had wheels in diameter and were pulled by horses, although steam locomotives had been in operation in England for 13 years. The wooden rails were plated with iron and were laid apart, on stone crossties spaced at 8-foot intervals. By 1837 these wooden rails had been replaced by granite rails, once again capped with iron.\n\nIn 1830, a new section of the railway called the Incline was added to haul granite from the Pine Ledge Quarry to the railway level below. Wagons moved up and down the long incline in an endless conveyor belt. The incline continued in operation until the 1940s.\n\nThe railway introduced several important inventions, including railway switches or frogs, the turntable, and double-truck railroad cars. Gridley Bryant never patented his inventions, believing they should be for the benefit of all.\n\nThe novelty of the new railroad attracted tourists who journeyed out from Boston to witness the revolutionary technology in person. Notable visitors such as statesman Daniel Webster and English actress Fanny Kemble were early witnesses to the new railway. Miss Kemble described her 1833 visit in her journal.\n\nThe Granite Railway was the site of one of the first fatal railway accidents in the United States, on July 25, 1832, when the wagon containing Thomas B. Achuas, of Cuba, derailed as he and three other tourists were taking a tour. The accident occurred while the wagon—empty of stone but now carrying the four passengers—was ascending the Incline on its return trip and a cable broke. The occupants of the car were thrown over a cliff, approximately . Mr. Achuas was killed and the three other passengers were badly injured.\n\nIn 1871 the Old Colony and Newport Railway took over the original right-of-way of the Granite Railway, replacing its track with contemporary construction, and steam trains then took granite from the quarries directly to Boston without need of barges from the Neponset River. This portion of the Old Colony Railroad through Quincy and Milton was later absorbed into the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad and later closed.\n\nDuring the early twentieth century, metal channels were laid over the old granite rails on the Incline and motor trucks were hauled up and down on a cable.\n\nMost of the right of way of the railway was eventually incorporated into much of the Southeast Expressway in Milton and Quincy.\n\nThe railway's Incline was added to the National Register of Historic Places on June 19, 1973, and a surviving portion of the railroad bed, just off the end of Bunker Hill Lane, was added on October 15, 1973.\n\nA centennial historic plaque from 1926, an original switch frog, a piece of train track, and a section of superstructure from the Granite Railway are in the gardens on top of the Southeast Expressway (Interstate 93) as it passes under East Milton Square. The frog had been displayed at the World's Columbian Exposition at Chicago in 1893. The commemorative display is at the approximate site of the railroad's right-of-way as it went through Milton on its way to the Neponset River.\n\nIn Quincy, visitors can walk along several parkland trails that reveal vestiges of the original railway trestle and the Incline. These trails connect to the quarries, most of which are now filled for safety purposes with dirt from the massive Big Dig highway project in Boston. In years past, many persons were injured — and some killed — while diving into the flooded abandoned quarries from great heights.\n\nThe Department of Conservation and Recreation maintains the Quincy Quarries Reservation, which has facilities for rock climbing, and trails connecting the remains of the Granite Railway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157820", "title": "NKS", "text": "NKS\n\nNKS may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2157843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157843", "title": "Paulina Peak", "text": "Paulina Peak\n\nPaulina Peak is a summit in Deschutes County, Oregon, United States. Formed by the Newberry Volcano, it is part of Newberry National Volcanic Monument. At an elevation of , it is the highest point on the volcano. The peak gives a panoramic view of the Newberry Caldera, the south and west flanks of the Newberry Volcano, the Cascades, the Fort Rock Basin, and central Oregon. The Cascade Range can be seen extending into California (Mount Shasta) and Washington (Mount Adams) from the peak on a clear sunny day.\n"}
{"id": "2157851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157851", "title": "Glorious Godfrey", "text": "Glorious Godfrey\n\nGlorious Godfrey is a DC Comics supervillain who is part of The Fourth World series of comic books in the early 1970s.\n\nGlorious Godfrey first appeared in \"Forever People\" #3 (June 1971) and was created by Jack Kirby.\n\nIn 1971, an article in \"The New York Times Magazine\" about \"relevant comics\" described \"a handsome toothy character named Glorious Godfrey, a revivalist. Godfrey is drawn to look like an actor playing Billy Graham in a Hollywood film biography of Richard Nixon starring George Hamilton.\"\n\nGodfrey has a sister named Amazing Grace who is also a member of Darkseid's Elite. The siblings have similar powers. Whereas Amazing Grace's specialty is manipulation, Godfrey's is persuasion.\n\nIn his first appearance he confronts the Forever People, who had stumbled upon a recruitment program for Earth-based warriors for Darkseid. He personally leads an attack of Justifiers that almost kills the young warrior Serafin. Despite the efforts of the Forever People's semi-sentient Super-Cycle, Godfrey's attack would have succeeded in killing Serafin; however, Highfather chose at that moment to recall all his people (and the cycle) home via teleportation.\n\nGodfrey remained a relatively unimportant character until 1986 (he had a total of three appearances over a decade and a half), when \"Legends\" (the first crossover since the \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\") was published. In it, Darkseid attempts to deprive the world of its heroes, not only so that they would be ineffective against Darkseid, but also in the hopes that the people of Earth would more willingly surrender to his rule.\nThe first phase of the plan consists simply of creating immense amounts of collateral damage by sending creatures to Earth to fight the superheroes. The public begins to resent the heroes in their midst, and therefore Darkseid starts the second phase of his plan by sending the master manipulator Glorious Godfrey to Earth.\n\nAssuming the identity of G. Gordon Godfrey (a reference to G. Gordon Liddy), he starts a hate campaign against the superheroes that proves to be very effective, riling the public and ultimately leading to a presidential decision to outlaw any super-heroic activity. The final phase of the plan consists of the Apokoliptian warhounds, cybernetic creatures that are bonded to human hosts, for which Godfrey is able to find an ample number of 'volunteers' among his hypnotized public. He leads his charges to Washington D.C., only to be confronted by a cadre of assembled heroes.\n\nThe heroes are able to defeat the Warhounds and separate them from their human hosts, with Godfrey jeopardising his image when he strikes a little girl who had been standing between the heroes and Godfrey's group of adults. After his initial weak attempt to justify his attack fails, Godfrey makes one last ploy by putting on the helmet of Doctor Fate in the hopes of obtaining his awesome might. Instead, the helmet mindwipes Godfrey, leaving him nothing more than an empty shell. He is sent to Belle Reve sanitarium, which he would later be broken out of by the Female Furies under the order of Darkseid.\n\nGodfrey has subsequently made brief appearances among assemblages of all the Apokoliptian Gods.\n\nIn \"Final Crisis\" #1, Reverend Godfrey Good appears on a TV news report, decrying the situation in Blüdhaven and the lack of government aid and assistance in dealing with the crisis in the ruined city. In between \"Final Crisis\" #1 and #2, Good is captured and transformed into a host for the essence of Glorious Godfrey. Godfrey taunts Dan Turpin and Batman, as Batman is imprisoned and Turpin transformed into the final host body for Darkseid.\n\nIn \"Final Crisis\" #4, Godfrey is present when Darkseid takes control over Turpin's body. However, in \"Final Crisis\" #5, Darkseid responds to his minion's impending death (presumably due to the fact that Godfrey's host body was not modified to successfully contain Godfrey's dark essence) by watching them die in front of him.\n\nA one-shot revealed that Godfrey had been chosen by Darkseid to be the secretive, personal assistant to the Earth-based villain Libra. The man is given generic technology to support him throughout the years because Darkseid believed the man had potential for greatness. Godfrey's assistance turns out to be invaluable, as Libra is the key to Darkseid's defeat of Earth.\n\nIn \"The New 52\" (a 2011 reboot of the DC Comics universe), Glorious Godfrey makes his first appearance by giving greetings to Batman and Ra's al Ghul from Apokolips. He has a new look, sporting a beard and an all-black uniform with red gloves and belt. Glorious Godfrey's reason for coming to Earth is to retrieve the Chaos Shard, a powerful crystal which once belonged to Darkseid which Ra's al Ghul revealed was hidden inside the sarcophagus he crafted for Damian. After detecting a trace signature of the shard coming from inside Damian's body, and despite the assistance of the Justice League, Glorious Godfrey escapes with the corpse back to Apokolips, with Batman vowing to get Damian Wayne's corpse back.\n\nGlorious Godfrey retains several attributes of a native of Apokolips, such as a limited level of superhuman strength, endurance and invulnerability. In addition, Godfrey has extended lifespan which allows him to exist indefinitely and he has an advanced immune system. However, Glorious Godfrey is a sub-par athlete and hand-to-hand combatant, whose greatest gifts are his overwhelming speaking voice and his extraordinary powers of persuasion. Whether these are natural gifts or have been augmented by the power of Darkseid has yet to be determined. Godfrey employs a private army called the Justifiers, composed of Earthmen who believe Godfrey's rhetoric and have had their perceptions completely contorted by Godfrey's words. The special helmets worn by the Justifiers allow Glorious Godfrey to control his soldiers even when they are not in his presence.\n\nJack Kirby biographer Mark Evanier states that Glorious Godfrey was based on evangelist Billy Graham.\n\n\"A lesser villain who toiled in the service of Darkseid was inspired more directly by evangelist Billy Graham, who was then rather difficult to avoid on TV. Kirby was appalled at some of Graham's apocalyptic sermons which — to Jack — were more calculated to instill fear than faith, and to stampede people into service of Graham's causes. Jack called the foe Glorious Godfrey, the name being a Kirbyesque pun. The comic book evangelist was \"god-free\" and also had some of the traits of TV pitchman Arthur Godfrey, though the main reference and the visual came from Billy Graham. Not evident in on the pages he drew was Jack's belief — which he expressed on several occasions — that Graham and the president he counseled were both virulent anti-Semites.\"\n\n\nG. Gordon Godfrey appears in the 2019 animated film \"Reign of the Supermen\", voiced by Trevor Devall.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157865", "title": "SR1", "text": "SR1\n\nSpelling Reform 1 or Spelling Reform step 1 (more commonly known as SR1) is an English spelling reform proposal advocated by British/Australian linguist Harry Lindgren. It calls for the short sound (as in \"bet\") to always be spelt with E. For example, \"friend\" would become \"frend\" and \"head\" would become \"hed\". SR1 was part of a 50-stage reform that Lindgren advocated in his book \"Spelling Reform: A New Approach\" (1969).<br>\n\nSpelling Reform 1 had some success in Australia. In 1975, the Australian Teachers' Federation adopted SR1 as a policy, although the Federation dissolved in 1987. \nHowever, there is no evidence outside this text that the system was \"adopted widely\" or indeed at all.\n\nExamples:\n\nThe following short poem is an example of SR1:\n<poem>Draw a breth for progress,\nTred abrest ahed.\nFight agenst old spelling,\nBetter \"red\" than \"read\".\nSpred the words at brekfast,\nMesure them in bed,\nDream of welth and tresure,\nBetter \"ded\" than \"dead\".</poem>\n\nUsing SR1 as a starting point, the Simplified Spelling Society (SSS) created a five-part reform proposal called Stage 1. The proposals were first printed in the November 1983 edition of the society's newsletter. In April 1984 they were adopted as the 'house style' of the SSS at its yearly meeting. The SSS said that the reforms could be used either together or individually (as a step-by-step change).\n\nTheir four extra proposals are:\n\nDUE stands for \"Drop Useless Es\". This proposal would remove the letter E from words where it is unneeded or misleading. This would mean dropping the E at the end of \"have\" but not at the end of \"behave\", because the E makes the A sound longer (see \"magic e\"). \n\nChange 'ph' to 'f' when it is sounded as .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157867", "title": "Seoul Metropolitan Subway stations", "text": "Seoul Metropolitan Subway stations\n\nAlthough each station of the Seoul Metropolitan Subway differs, most share characteristics described in this article. Stations range in size, from tiny local stations to large transportation hubs.\n\nOutside each station, entrances are marked with a tall obelisk that has the station's name and station number printed on it below a small subway logo. Inside the station exits are marked with the uniquely translated \"Way Out\" and is assigned a number, depicted on signs in black with a black circle around the number. Station exits can be a significant distance away from each other at ground level, so it's important to know the exit number you want to take. Every station has detailed maps of the station and surrounding area showing the locations of each exit.\n\nEmergency exits are marked with a green sign that depict visually a person running out of a door.\n\nThe main area of any station has a ticket counter where tickets are purchased and T-Money transportation cards are recharged. A row of automatic ticket dispensing machines offer tickets. There had been ticket-sellers, at every station, but to cut expenses and protect the environment, Korail abolished paper tickets. Since then, people who do not have T-money have to get plastic electronic tickets from the machines. When you arrive at your destination, there are also refund machines, which return \\500, that you paid with your ticket price. Maps above the ticket dispensing machines explain the cost for each destination in the system; prices are charged by how far the user rides. These main areas of the station are often decorated with art, and often feature a fish tank. Also, a \"library\" area is common, with books and chairs for people waiting to meet someone. Each main area leads to at least one ticket gate. In order to enter or exit ticket gates, riders must insert a ticket, or scan a T-Money card against the card pad.\n\nTravel around stations for visually impaired riders is enhanced by a guided path. These paths are usually bright yellow, but range in color and can be seen in other colors such as silver, as well. The path is raised, allowing visually impaired riders to follow the path to the exit or the train. For riders needing wheelchair access, many stations have elevators, marked with a special symbol, or devices that allow wheel chair users to ride up and down stairs. Korean Braille can also be found at the base of stairs, in front of restrooms, and some other places.\n\n Around one foot from the edge of platform, the floor is marked with a yellow safety line (usually bumped, as described above). Along this line, the locations of each doorway of each carriage are marked with 3 arrows or triangles. The central triangle indicates that disembarking passengers should leave from the center of the door, while the two arrows on the sides indicate that boarding passengers should form two lines at the sides while waiting for the train. Although courtesy requires riders to wait for exiting passengers before entering the train, it is not uncommon for this to be somewhat ignored. Each boarding location is also numbered with the carriage and door number, and passengers use this information to position themselves at the ideal location for transferring to another line, or their desired exit at their destination station.\n\nRecently terrorist concerns have increased precautions against any attacks. Larger stations have cabinets with disposable gas masks, and a new phone has been installed. The phone has two buttons, the red button connects directly to the emergency response system and the green button connects to an information service.\n\nPlatform walls are marked with a thick line, of the color of the train line, along with the name of current, next (and sometimes previous) station and an arrow indicating the train's direction. Each station also has a unique number, and its name, written in hangul, Roman characters, and Chinese characters. If the rider can transfer to another train line, that color is represented as a thinner horizontal stripe above, or below, the station's color.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157868", "title": "Johann Christoph Bach", "text": "Johann Christoph Bach\n\nJohann Christoph Bach (baptised – 31 March 1703) was a German composer and organist of the Baroque period. He was born at Arnstadt, the son of Heinrich Bach, Johann Sebastian Bach's first cousin once removed and the first cousin of J.S. Bach's father, Johann Ambrosius Bach. He was also the uncle of Maria Barbara Bach, J. S. Bach's first wife and second cousin. Johann Christoph married Maria Elisabeth Wiedemann in 1667. They had seven children, including four sons who became musicians: Johann Nicolaus (10 October 1669 – 4 November 1753), Johann Christoph Jr. (29 August 1676 – 1738), Johann Friedrich (1682–1730), and Johann Michael (1685–unknown). Two of their grandsons later sailed to America and founded the Bach family there: Johann Heinrich Bach (1709–1789) and Johann Wilhelm Bach (1722–1794). He is not to be confused with Johann Sebastian Bach's son, Johann Christoph Friedrich Bach.\n\nJohann Christoph had a reputation as a composer that was only equalled by that of Johann Sebastian within the Bach family during his lifetime. He was organist at Eisenach and later a member of the court chamber orchestra there. His brother, Johann Michael Bach (Johann Sebastian Bach's father-in-law and Maria Barbara's father), was also a composer. Some of the works were later attributed to Johann Sebastian, but were recently recognized as written by Johann Christoph. One of the most famous works is the cantata \"\", based on the \"Song of Solomon\".\n\nDespite his success as a musician, Johann Christoph experienced financial difficulties, which may have resulted in his not having been selected as the guardian of Johann Sebastian when the latter's parents died. Yet Johann Christoph found the money to have his portrait painted in oil several times, including the well-known portrait of him that is on display in a Berlin museum. Johann Christoph was heavily in debt when he died at Eisenach. He died just ten days after his wife Maria died.\n\nSebastian Bach described him in his Genealogy (, 1735) as \"the profound composer\", thus hinting at his reputation, not just within the family, but within society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157874", "title": "Waterwolf", "text": "Waterwolf\n\nWaterwolf, or Water-wolf is a Dutch word that comes from the Netherlands, which refers to the tendency of lakes in low lying peaty land, sometimes previously worn-down by men digging peat for fuel, to enlarge or expand by flooding, thus eroding the lake shores, and potentially causing harm to infrastructure or death. The term waterwolf is an example of zoomorphism, in which a non-living thing is given traits or characteristics of an animal (whereas a non-living thing given human traits or characteristics is personification). The traits of a wolf most commonly given to lakes include “something to be feared”, “quick and relentless”,” an enemy of man”.\n\nThe Netherlands, meaning “low countries” is a nation where 18% of the countries’ land is below sea level, and half of the land under one meter above sea level, and is prone to flooding. Before modern flood control, severe storms could cause flooding that could wipe out whole villages in the area of the waterwolf. Much of the land in the Netherlands is considered peat bogs. Peat is known to be an organic matter substance consisting of 10% carbon and 90% water and is usually found in colder climates where the plant growth and plant decay are slow. Peat is considered a carbon sequestration, and when dried can be burned as a fuel. Historically peat was the primary source of fuel in the Netherlands, and farmers would mine the peat to burn or sell, thus contributing to the erosion of the landscape.\n\nThe first great step to reclaiming land taken by the waterwolf was made with the creation of windmills that could pump water out of the surrounding area, allowing for the creation of polders, or areas inhabited below sea level with an artificially managed water table. Modern flood control in the Netherlands consists of maintaining polders, levees, and is highlighted by the world's largest dam project: The Delta Works. While modern flood control has conquered the waterwolf, new events such as rising sea levels from climate change could once again bring the waterwolf.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157883", "title": "List of language histories", "text": "List of language histories\n\nThis is a list of language histories.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157885", "title": "Manuel Fernandes (footballer, born 1986)", "text": "Manuel Fernandes (footballer, born 1986)\n\nManuel Henrique Tavares Fernandes (; born 5 February 1986) is a Portuguese footballer who plays as a midfielder for Russian club FC Krasnodar.\n\nHe started his professional career with Benfica at only 18, then went on to compete in England and Spain, mainly at the service of Everton and Valencia. He signed with Beşiktaş in January 2011, spending the following three-and-a-half seasons with the club before joining Lokomotiv Moscow.\n\nFernandes represented the Portugal under-21 team in two European Championships. He made his debut with the full side in 2005, being part of the 2018 World Cup squad at the age of 32.\n\nBorn in Lisbon, Fernandes grew up in the capital suburb of Amadora, where he would regularly play street football with future Sporting CP and Manchester United star Nani as a child. Subsequently, he joined S.L. Benfica's youth system and made his first-team debut during the 2003–04 season under coach José Antonio Camacho, making an immediate impression on both the manager and the club's supporters and becoming its second youngest ever goalscorer in only his second game, a 2–1 away win against Gil Vicente FC.\n\nFernandes became a regular first-team in 2004–05, often partnering established Petit in central midfield, under the guidance of Italian coach Giovanni Trapattoni. He helped Benfica win the Primeira Liga title after an 11-year drought, missing just five league games and scoring in a 2–0 win at Vitória F.C. on 19 March 2005. He also made seven appearances in the campaign's UEFA Cup, in an eventual round-of-32 elimination at the hands of eventual winners PFC CSKA Moscow.\n\nDuring the 2005–06 pre-season, Fernandes underwent surgery in Munich due to an inguinal hernia. He was treated by specialist Ulrike Muschaweck. In the UEFA Champions League, he scored the equalising goal in a draw at Villarreal CF in the group stage, with Benfica again only being ousted by the eventual champions, in this case FC Barcelona in the quarter-finals.\n\nIn the summer of 2006, Fernandes signed for Portsmouth of the Premier League on loan, with a deal agreed for a permanent transfer of approximately £7 million if he fully recovered from his groin injury. A transfer was first proposed in late July, but could not be concluded as the player was still suffering from the injury, failing his medical at the club twice; in an unusual move, Benfica allowed the player to be treated at Portsmouth in the hope that he would regain fitness before the transfer deadline on 1 September, and, after five weeks at the club, it was projected that he still needed two months recovery and so, the initial loan deal with a future fee was agreed.\n\nFernandes made his Portsmouth debut in the Football League Cup away to Mansfield Town, scoring from outside the area after just five minutes in a 2–1 win. He went on to make sporadic appearances for the club throughout the first half of the season, with Sean Davis and countryman Pedro Mendes the preferred midfield pairing; it was later revealed by Pompey manager Harry Redknapp that if he were to make three consecutive appearances, it would trigger a clause in which Portsmouth were obligated to sign the player for £12m – because of the high transfer fee, Portsmouth revealed in December that unless Benfica were to compromise on the fee they would not make the deal permanent, and the player returned to his previous club in the winter transfer window.\n\nIn January 2007, Fernandes returned to England, joining Everton on loan until the end of the season. He also signed a long-term contract with Benfica in January 2007, the deal being complicated due to the fact he was part-owned by a third party agency, but he eventually made an assured debut for his new club in the 1–0 win over Blackburn Rovers on 10 February, and quickly became something of a fans' favourite at Goodison Park; he scored his first league goal for the club on 24 February against Watford and, on 28 April, added another against league leaders Manchester United – the goal, although spectacular, was not enough as the opposition would go on to score four times in the final half-hour of the game, winning 4–2.\nWith Everton manager David Moyes reluctant to pay Benfica's reported £12 million asking price, Fernandes returned to the latter in the summer, where he had several good performances during the pre-season. In August 2007 it was reported that the former had made an offer of £6 million for the player and, five days later, it was confirmed by both clubs that he was the subject of an acceptable bid from the English side, believed to be £6 million for Benfica's 50% share in the player, with Everton having to negotiate with Global Sports Agency for the other half his playing rights; later reports indicated Everton were willing to pay £12 million for 100% of the rights.\n\nOn 14 August, it was reported that Fernandes had flown to the Merseyside to complete the deal after being left out of the squad in Benfica's game, and he attended Everton's match against Blackburn 11 days later. Adding to the fact the player's rights were partly owned by an agency, the Premier League did not agree to the transfer as Everton would only half-own the player's contract – the English were not too happy about this as the league had previously let Carlos Tevez and Javier Mascherano move to other clubs under the same agreements.\n\nHowever, in a late twist on 26 August, Fernandes opted to sign a six-year contract with La Liga side Valencia CF, in a deal worth €18 million (£12.2 million) to Benfica and the third parties owner. The deal included a €60 million buy-out clause.\n\nFernandes made his debut as a substitute during a 2–1 away win against UD Almería on 2 September 2007, and ended his first season with seven league appearances, five in the starting XI. In January 2008 he was loaned back to Everton until the end of the campaign, with the club having the option to sign him permanently; during his five-month spell he went scoreless in 13 official appearances, 12 of those in the league.\n\nBack at Valencia for 2008–09, new Valencia coach Unai Emery declared Fernandes as part of his plans and he came from the bench in the first league match, a 3–0 home win against RCD Mallorca. On 5 October 2008 he scored the only goal in a win at Real Valladolid, his first with the club; overall, during his first full campaign, he complemented well with veterans David Albelda and Rubén Baraja, amassing league totals of 27 games and 1,718 minutes, but also sustained a fibula injury against Getafe CF in April 2009 even though he played the entire match.\n\nIn January 2010, Fernandes was expected to sign on loan with Inter Milan due to lack of opportunities at Valencia, with the Italians having the right to buy off his contract at the end of the season. However, he failed his medical exams on the 30th, cancelling the deal; he was also linked with a return to Portsmouth in the same transfer window, but that move fell through after paperwork failed to clear in time.\n\n In late December 2010, completely out of favour with manager Emery, Fernandes was loaned to Beşiktaş J.K. in the Süper Lig until the end of the season, being officially presented on 3 January 2011. At the Istanbul club, he reunited with former Benfica teammate Simão Sabrosa.\n\nOn 11 May 2011, Fernandes assisted on both team goals and converted his penalty in the shootout as they won the Turkish Cup against İstanbul Büyükşehir Belediyespor (4–3, 2–2 after extra time). He appeared in a total of 20 competitive games during his first spell in Istanbul (14 in the league, six in the cup) and, in early July 2011, a permanent three-year contract was arranged for a €2 million transfer fee.\n\nOn 2 June 2014, free agent Fernandes signed a long-term contract with Russian club FC Lokomotiv Moscow. Sporting director Kirill Kotov referred to the player's \"perfect technique and high playing intellect\" as being the main reasons for his acquisition in order \"to boost creativity in midfield\". Due to his performances, he was named his team's Player of the Month in October 2014.\n\nOn 28 September 2017, Fernandes became the fastest-ever player to score a hat-trick in the history of the UEFA Europa League, achieving the feat in 17 minutes to help the hosts defeat FC Fastav Zlín 3–0 in the group stage. On 15 February of the following year, for the same competition but in the round of 32, he countered Mario Balotelli's early brace with three goals in a 3–2 away win over OGC Nice.\n\nOn 2 September 2019, the 33-year-old Fernandes agreed to a one-year deal at FC Krasnodar also of the Russian top division.\n\nIn June 2007, Fernandes played in all games at the UEFA European Under-21 Championship, scoring the opening goal for Portugal in their 4–0 win over Israel – the national side eventually failed Olympic qualification. He also appeared at the 2006 edition's final stages, and was an active member in the 2009 qualifying campaign.\n\nFernandes received his first call-up to the senior team in February 2005. He scored his first senior international goal on 26 March in a friendly match with Canada, and played his first official game against Armenia on 17 November 2007, a 1–0 win in Leiria for the UEFA Euro 2008 qualifiers.\n\nAlthough not part of the list of 24 players initially selected for the 2010 FIFA World Cup, Fernandes was one of the six players named in a backup list. He made the final squad for the 2018 World Cup in Russia where he played his club football, making his debut in the competition on 30 June when he replaced João Mário for the final five minutes of the 1–2 round-of-16 loss against Uruguay.\n\nFernandes' cousin, Gelson Fernandes, was also a footballer and a midfielder. Born in Cape Verde and starting his career at FC Sion, he opted to represent Switzerland internationally.\n\nHe was also cousin to two other footballers with Swiss nationality, Adilson Cabral and Edimilson Fernandes.\n\n (Portugal score listed first, score column indicates score after each Fernandes goal)\n\nBenfica\n\nValencia\n\nBeşiktaş\n\nLokomotiv Moscow\n\n"}
{"id": "2157887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157887", "title": "Sima Hui", "text": "Sima Hui\n\nSima Hui ( third century), courtesy name Decao and pseudonym Shuijing, was a hermit who lived during the late Eastern Han dynasty of China.\n\nSima Hui was from Yangzhai County (), Yingchuan Commandery (), which is around present-day Yuzhou, Henan. He lived in northern Jing Province (covering present-day Hubei and Hunan). He is popularly remembered as the one who recommended Zhuge Liang and Pang Tong to the warlord Liu Bei in the 14th-century historical novel \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\", even though historically it was his friend Pang Degong (龐德公; Pang Tong's uncle) who did so.\n\nSima Hui was known to never mention others' shortcomings or flaws. His reply to both good and bad news would always be \"\"hao\"\" (好; literally \"good\" or \"yes\"). When someone asked him, \"How are you?\", he replied, \"Good.\" When somebody told him that their son had died, he said, \"Very good.\" His wife chided him for that, saying, \"Everyone sees you as a person of good moral conduct so they are willing to share their problems with you. Why do you say 'very good' when someone tells you that his son had died?\" Sima Hui replied, \"It's also good to hear what you've just said.\" This gave rise to the Chinese idiom \"haohao xiansheng\" (好好先生; literally \"Mr. Yes\" or \"Mr. Good\").\n\nIn Chapter 37 of the 14th-century historical novel \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\", Sima Hui is described to be a carefree, wandering man who is well-versed in many arts. He has a close relationship with Pang Tong, and refers to Pang Tong as a younger brother.\n\nSima Hui is also featured in Chan Mou's manhua \"The Ravages of Time\" as the teacher of the \"Eight Enigmas\", a group of elite strategists and advisers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157889", "title": "Nawab Abdul Latif", "text": "Nawab Abdul Latif\n\nAbdul Latif (1828 – 1893) was a nineteenth-century educator and social worker in Bengal. His title, \"Nawab\" was awarded by the British in 1880. He was one of the first Muslims in nineteenth century India to embrace the idea of modernization.\n\nLatif was born in 1828 at the village of Rajapur, Faridpur District (present Bangladesh). His father Fakir Mahmud was a lawyer in the civil court of Kolkata. He obtained the highest degree in Arabic, French and English language from Calcutta Madrassah (now the Aliah University).\n\nLatif started his career as a teacher of Dhaka Collegiate School in 1846. By 1847, while still in his teens, he was appointed by the government as assistant to one of the Ameers of Sindh. He worked in this capacity for about a year. He was next appointed a teacher in the Dhaka Collegiate School. Here too he served for a brief period. In 1847, an Anglo-Arabic class in the Calcutta Madrassa was opened for imparting instruction in English. In 1848, he was appointed Anglo-Arabic professor in-charge of this class.\n\nLatif joined government service in 1849 as a deputy magistrate and was promoted to the post of presidency magistrate in 1877. While serving as the deputy magistrate of Satkhira, he witnessed the repression and exploitation of the peasants by the English indigo planters. He encouraged the farmers there to become united and tell the government about their grievances. He himself took some initiative in this Indigo revolt. Finally, the British government formed the Indigo Commission in 1860 due to his initiative with the goal of putting an end to the repressions of indigo planters.\n\nLatif was nominated a member of the Bengal Management Council when it was constituted in 1862 during the rule of Lord Canning. In 1863, he was appointed a member of the examination board for civil and military services and a fellow of the University of Calcutta. He was appointed as 'justice of the peace' following the formation of Calcutta Corporation (Municipal Authority) in 1865. He remained in that position until 1875. When there was intense anger among the Muslim community following the adoption of a proposal by the Indian Management Council in 1865, he put forward arguments in favour of amending the bill through a memorandum submitted to the British government.\n\nIn 1863, Nawab Abdul Latif founded the Mohammedan Literary Society.\n\nThe Society gave a remarkable impetus to the cause of Muslim advancement throughout India. It attracted the notice of successive administrations, the wants and grievances of the Indian Muslim community in regard to education, legislation and other cognate matters affecting the well-being of society. The Society was the precursor of similar institutions in other parts of India.\n\nThe British government, in recognition of his meritorious services, honoured him with titles and decorations from time to time. In 1877, at the Imperial Assemblage, at Delhi, Viceroy Lord Lytton conferred upon him the title of \"Khan Bahadur\" and presented him with an \"Empress Medal.\" In April 1880, Lord Lytton conferred upon him the high title of \"Nawab.\" In 1883, Viceroy Lord Ripon honoured him with a \"Companionship of the Most Eminent Order of the Indian Empire.\" In 1887, on the occasion of Queen Victoria's Golden Jubilee, Viceroy Lord Dufferin conferred upon him the highest Muslim title of \"Nawab Bahadur.\"\n\nHe received the title of 'Order of the Majedi of Third Class' from the Turkish government.\n\nLatif died on 10 July 1893.\n\nLatif's achievements include working to turn Hindu College into Presidency College and thus open it for non-Hindus as well. He also established numerous educational institutes, including Rajshahi Madrasah. As a prominent personality of mid 19th century Bengal, he was the pioneer of Muslim modernization and the architect of the Muslim Renaissance, was one of those great men who appeared as saviors of their frustrated, humiliated, demoralized and disorganized fellow countrymen under colonial rule His chief contribution was in the field of education. He was among the first to understand that young Bengali Muslims should receive modern education. He understood that the Muslims of Bengal had fallen behind in everything because of their prejudices against modern education. He devoted his whole life to removing this self-destructive prejudice from their minds. However, Bangladeshi educationist Ahmed Sharif criticized him for promoting Urdu over Bengali as the language of Bengali Muslims.\n\nShaista Suhrawardy Ikramullah was Latif's great-granddaughter.\n"}
{"id": "2157893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157893", "title": "Molinia caerulea", "text": "Molinia caerulea\n\nMolinia caerulea, known by the common name purple moor-grass, is a species of grass that is native to Europe, west Asia, and north Africa. It grows in locations from the lowlands up to in the Alps. Like most grasses, it grows best in acid soils, ideally pH values of between 3.5 and 5, however, it can continue to live under more extreme conditions, sometimes to as low as 2. It is common on moist heathland, bogs and moorland throughout Britain and Ireland. Introduced populations exist in northeastern and northwestern North America.\n\nThe specific epithet \"caerulea\" means \"deep blue\" and refers to the purple spikelets.\n\n\"Molinia caerulea\" is a herbaceous perennial bunchgrass (tussock-forming), growing up to tall (taller when sheltered by gorse and heather), with many closely packed stems. The leaves are coarse, green, taper to a point, long, flat and sometimes slightly hairy on top. Due to the dense tussock it is very resistant to heath fires. Its ligule is a ring of hairs, as in heath grass (\"Danthonia decumbens\"). The long narrow purple spikelets are a major identification feature – the panicle is long.\n\nIt flowers between July and September, later than any other species.\n\nThe caterpillars of some Lepidoptera use it as a foodplant, e.g., the chequered skipper (\"Carterocephalus palaemon\").\n\n\"Claviceps purpurea\" is an ascomycetous fungus which grows on the seeds of purple moor grass.\n\n\"Purple moor grass and rush pastures\" is a United Kingdom Biodiversity Action Plan habitat, on account of its rarity.\n\n\"Molinia caerulea\" is cultivated for its panicles of purple spikelets on yellow stems. In cultivation it grows to tall by broad. Numerous cultivars have been selected, of which the following have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit: \n\n"}
{"id": "2157894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157894", "title": "Meet the Masters", "text": "Meet the Masters\n\nMeet the Masters is a classical music television program aired in 1952 on NBC. The national broadcast premiere has yet to be confirmed, but the series is known to have debuted on then-NBC affiliate WGN Chicago on February 24, 1952 , so likely aired nationwide that day, too. The series, which ran throughout the spring of 1952, is considered a pioneering program for televised classical music.\n\nKnown guest performers on the series include singer Marian Anderson and pianist Arthur Rubinstein. An NBC promotional photo announced the appearance of soprano Nadine Conner and tenor Jan Peerce.\n"}
{"id": "2157897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157897", "title": "List of current Major League Baseball players by nationality", "text": "List of current Major League Baseball players by nationality\n\nMajor League Baseball players by nationality are listed below:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n19 people\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157899", "title": "Denis Lill", "text": "Denis Lill\n\nDenis Lill (born 22 April 1942) is a New Zealand-born British actor. He is best known for his role in \"Survivors\" as Charles Vaughan and his role in \"Only Fools and Horses\" as Alan Parry.\n\nLill joined the RNZAF as a 13–course BES cadet entrant in 1959. It was in the RNZAF that he first expressed an interest in amateur dramatics and a fondness for mimicking characters of the BBC's \"The Goon Show\". Throughout his air force career, he involved himself in operatic and theatric productions. He left New Zealand for Britain in 1967.\n\nSome of his many film and television roles include \"Fall of Eagles\" (1974), \"Edward the Seventh\" (1975), \"Survivors\" (1975–77), \"The Eagle Has Landed\" (1976), \"Bad Blood\" (1981), \"The Scarlet Pimpernel\" (1982), as William Knox D'Arcy, the Australian oil pioneer in Persia, in \"\" (1983), \"Rumpole of the Bailey\" (1983–92), \"Mapp and Lucia\" (1985–86), \"Only Fools and Horses\" (1989–92), Batman, Red Dwarf (1 episode, 1990s) (1989), \"Bernard and the Genie\" (1991), \"Richard III\" (1995), \"Evita\" (1996), \"The Opium War\" (1997), \"Rebecca\" (1997) Heartbeat (2002) and \"The Royal\" (2003-2011).\n\nLill twice appeared in the BBC's science fiction series \"Doctor Who\": as Dr Fendelman in the 1977 serial \"Image of the Fendahl\" and as Sir George Hutchinson in 1984's \"The Awakening\". After a one-off appearance in the first series of Terry Nation's post-apocalyptic drama \"Survivors\" as Charles Vaughan, he became the leading actor for the show's second and third series. Lill portrayed Bertie, the Prince of Wales and later Edward the VII, in the 1978 period serial drama \"Lillie\" opposite Francesca Annis as Lillie Langtry. In the 1990s he starred in sitcoms \"Outside Edge\" as Dennis and \"Only Fools and Horses\" as Cassandra's father, Alan Parry.\n\nLill appeared in the 1986 Sherlock Holmes adaptation of \"The Man with the Twisted Lip\" as Inspector Bradstreet, a character he played in two further Holmes adventures in 1988 & 1994. He also appeared as the drunken MP Sir Talbot Buxomly who died onscreen in an episode of \"Blackadder the Third\" and as the Beadle in \"Blackadder's Christmas Carol\". He also appeared as Sir Reuben Astwell in \"The Underdog\" (1993) of the detective series \"Poirot\". He appeared in \"Red Dwarf\", playing a rogue simulant in \"Gunmen of the Apocalypse\", in \"Bertie and Elizabeth\" as Clement Attlee (2002) and from 2003 until 2011 Lill starred in the ITV1 drama \"The Royal\" as Consultant General Surgeon Mr. Rose. Lill has also worked in radio theatre with one of his memorable characters being the brother in Ron Blair's play \"The Christian Brothers.\" In 2014, he appeared in \"\".\n\nIn February 2016, Lill appeared in series 18 episode 4 \" A Dying Art\" of the ITV crime drama \"Midsomer Murders\".\n\nLill appeared in Series 2 Episode 5 of \"Shakespeare and Hathaway: Private Investigators\" in March 2019.\n\nLill resides in Ryme Intrinseca, Dorset, with his wife Vanessa. They have two children.\n"}
{"id": "2157908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157908", "title": "Borne Sulinowo", "text": "Borne Sulinowo\n\nBorne Sulinowo (German: \"Groß Born\") is a town in north-western Poland, within the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. It is a capital of a separate gmina (municipality) and home to 4224 inhabitants as of 2006. The surrounding commune is inhabited by additional 5,327 people.\n\nThe town is notable for the fact that between 1945 and 1992 it was a secret Soviet military base, erased from all maps and it was not transferred to Polish jurisdiction until October 1992.\n\nThe town of Borne Sulinowo traces back its roots to two distinct villages founded in the area in the 16th century by local Pomeranian nobility. Modern town occupies the place of the village of \"Linde\" (linden tree), which in 1590 had 12 inhabitants. A nearby village named \"Großborn\" was home to 14 peasants.\n\nBoth villages developed very slowly. In the late 19th century, the area of the village of Linde was bought by the Prussian government and converted into a military training ground. However, it was not until the advent of Nazism in Germany that changes really arrived there.\n\nDuring the first World War, there was an outcamp from Schneidemuhl prisoner of war camp at Gross Born.\n\nIn 1933 the new German authorities bought all of the area and started the construction of a large military base, a training ground and various testing grounds there. Most of the local inhabitants were resettled and their homes razed to the ground. In place of the village of Linde, a small military garrison and a town was built. Paradoxically, it was given the name of the nearby village of Gross Born (which was also levelled), despite the fact that the actual namesake was located several kilometres to the south-east. All facilities were officially opened by Adolf Hitler on August 18, 1938. Soon afterwards the Artillery School of the Wehrmacht was moved there. Shortly before the outbreak of the Polish Defensive War of 1939, the training grounds housed Heinz Guderian's XIX Army Corps. During the later stages of World War II an artificial desert was built there for the units of Erwin Rommel's Afrika Korps (the other such training ground was established in the Błędów Desert near Olkusz). At the same time the area became part of the so-called Pomeranian Rampart, a line of almost 1000 concrete bunkers guarding the pre-war Polish-German border and eastern approaches to Berlin.\n\nIn September 1939 in the military barracks a German POW camp was established for Polish soldiers, as well as for Russian, French and Yugoslavian POWs-Stalag 302, where more than 30,000 were murdered. Later it became an oflag. See main article Oflag II-D. \nAfter January 22, 1945, the \"Pomeranian Rampart\" lines of defences around Gross-Born were manned by local artillery school NCOs and local fighting for the area started. Actual engagements with the Polish Army and the Red Army started in early February and lasted for more than a month. The town however was located behind the lines and survived the war almost undamaged.\n\nAfter the war, the area of two military bases and the town itself was taken by the Red Army. There the Soviet military established one of the biggest military camps of the Northern Group of Forces. The town was excluded from Polish jurisdiction and erased from all maps, even though officially part of the People's Republic of Poland. In official documents of the surrounding communes, the area of former Gross-Born and the surrounding 180 km² were called \"forest areas\" and remained a secret for almost 50 years. and after World War II it remained in Soviet hands, as a military base.\n\nFollowing the peaceful change of political system in Poland in 1989, an agreement was finally reached to withdraw the Soviet Army from Poland. The last of the large units, the 15,000 men strong 6th Guards Motor Rifle Division \"Vitebsk-Novgorod\" (later renamed the 166th Guards Motor Rifle Brigade of the Russian Federation) was withdrawn from Borne Sulinowo in October 1992. The town became a part of Poland.\n\nIt was briefly controlled by the Polish Army, with a small contingent of the Polish 41st Mechanized Regiment stationed there. However, in April of the following year the Polish unit was withdrawn and the town was finally passed to civilian authorities - for the first time since the 19th century. On June 5, 1993, at 12 am, the town was officially opened to the public. On September 15 of the same year the Council of Ministers granted the town with a city charter and a process of settlement started. Among the first inhabitants of the town were Polish repatriates from Russian Siberia and Kazakhstan, who were finally allowed to return to Poland after more than 50 years of forcible resettlement in Soviet Union.\n\nSince 2004, Borne Sulinowo has hosted the International Gathering of Military Vehicles (Międzynarodowy Zlot Pojazdów Militarnych). The event takes place over one weekend in August and has slowly grown into a general gathering of military enthusiasts and history buffs, with live concerts and cavalry shows for entertainment. The event offers attendees a chance to ride in a variety of vehicles, including tanks. Military surplus and historical items are sold in the bazaar. Many individuals choose to camp on-premises for the duration, and a large number wear military uniforms from different countries and time periods - World War II being the most popular.\n\nBorne Sulinowo is twinned with:\nPszczyna, Ralsko, Krien\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157915", "title": "William Wade (English politician)", "text": "William Wade (English politician)\n\nSir William Wade (or Waad, or Wadd; 154621 October 1623) was an English statesman and diplomat, and Lieutenant of the Tower of London.\n\nWade was the eldest son of Armagil Wade, the traveller, who sailed with a party of adventurers for North America in 1536, later, one of the clerks of the privy council in London and a member of parliament, and his first wife, Anne Waller.\n\nBoth his parents died in 1568, and Wade succeeded to the family property, his father's sons by his first wife having predeceased him. In 1571 he was admitted a student of Gray's Inn, and a few years later, doubtless with a view to entering the service of the government, he began travelling on the continent.\n\nIn July 1576 Waad was living in Paris and frequently supplied political information to William Cecil, 1st Baron Burghley, whose \"servant\" he is described as being. He claimed \"familiar acquaintance\" with the celebrated French publicist Jean Bodin, from whom he seems to have derived some of the news he forwarded to Burghley. In the autumn of 1576 Amias Paulet took Wade to Blois. During the winter of 1578–79 he was in Italy, from where he forwarded to Burghley reports on its political condition. From Venice in April 1579 he sent Burghley fifty of the rarest kinds of seeds in Italy. In May he was in Florence, and in February 1579/80 he was living in Strasbourg. In the following April he was employed on a delicate mission in Paris by Sir Henry Cobham.\n\nAmong appointments in London, Waad undertook a number of ambassadorial missions, in 1580 to Portugal; then in 1581 he became secretary to Sir Francis Walsingham and in 1583 he was appointed as one of the clerks of the Privy Council. In April of that year he was sent to Vienna to discuss the differences between the Hanseatic League and English merchants abroad, and in July he accompanied Lord Willoughby on his embassy to Denmark to invest the king with the insignia of the Garter, and to negotiate an agreement on mercantile affairs.\n\nIn January 1583–4 he was sent to Madrid to explain the expulsion from England of the Spanish ambassador, Mendoza. He arrived in March, but Phillip II refused all his requests for an interview and ordered him out of Spain, with an intimation that he was fortunate to escape to liberty. He was back in England on 12 April, and with his return diplomatic relations between England and Spain ceased. In the same month Waad was sent to Mary Stuart, Queen of Scots, to induce her to come to terms with Elizabeth, and his account of the interview is printed by Froude. In February 1584-5 he was appointed to accompany Nau to the court of King James VI of Scotland, but his appointment was cancelled at the last minute.\n\nIn March 1585 Waad was despatched to Paris to demand the surrender of the conspirator Thomas Morgan. Henry III was willing to consider the request, but the Catholic League and the Guises were violently opposed to it and even instructed the Duc d'Aumale to waylay Waad and rescue Morgan on their way to the coast. Waad, however, convinced that he could not secure Morgan, contented himself with obtaining a promise that Morgan should be detained in prison in France, but Aumale nevertheless attacked the envoy near Amiens and inflicted on him a severe beating as an answer to his demand for the extradition of a Roman Catholic from France. In August, Waad accompanied William Davison to the Low Countries to negotiate an alliance with the States-General of the Netherlands.\n\nA year later he took a prominent part in arranging the seizure of Mary Stuart's papers, which implicated her in the Babington Plot. He himself went down to Chartley in August 1586, and, while Mary was decoyed away on a hunting expedition, arrested her secretaries Nau and Curle, and having ransacked her cabinet, carried back a valuable collection of papers to London. For this important service he was paid thirty pounds.\n\nIn 1587 Waad was again in France. During the remainder of the reign of Elizabeth I of England, he was much occupied in searching for Jesuits and in discovering plots against the life of the queen.\n\nJames I, who knighted him in 1603. employed him in similar ways, and he was occupied that year in unravelling the Bye Plot and Main Plot. Waad was Lieutenant of the Tower of London at the time of the Gunpowder Plot and questioned Guy Fawkes. For some time Waad was a member of the Parliament of England, elected as MP for Aldborough (1584), Thetford (1589), Preston (1601) and West Looe (1604).\n\nHe retired from public life in 1613, at the instigation of Frances Howard, Countess of Essex. She wanted Wade replaced with a less honest Lieutenant of the Tower, Sir Gervase Helwys, as part of her scheme to murder the prisoner Thomas Overbury, who was opposed to her affair with Robert Carr.\n\nWade had allowed Lady Arbella Stuart a key to her quarters in the Tower, and this was made the pretext for his replacement by Helwys. Wade was later praised by Lloyd, who claimed that \"to his directions we owe Rider's \"Dictionary\", to his encouragement Hooker's \"Polity\", and to his charge Gruter's \"Inscriptions\".\n\nA wall tablet within the church of St Mary the Virgin at Manuden in Essex commemorates Wade (named Waad on the tablet). He lived at Battles Hall in the village during his retirement. Wade died on 21 October 1623 and is buried in the church. He had been a shareholder in the Virginia Company, and the Wades of Virginia claim descent from his father.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157916", "title": "Blackened Sky", "text": "Blackened Sky\n\nBlackened Sky is the debut studio album by Scottish rock band Biffy Clyro. Largely produced with the band by Chris Sheldon, it was released by Beggars Banquet Records on 10 March 2002. The album reached number 78 on the UK Albums Chart, and spawned four singles. A deluxe remastered edition was released in 2012, which featured, in addition to the original 12 album tracks, two songs from the band's debut extended play (EP) \"thekidswhopoptodaywillrocktomorrow\" and a number of B-sides from the album's singles.\n\nCritical reception to Biffy Clyro's debut album was generally mixed. John Murphy of independent music website musicOMH, writing at the time of its release in 2002, claimed that \"Blackened Sky\" was evidence of Biffy's status as \"the most exciting new band in Britain\", drawing comparisons to influencing band Nirvana and praising elements such as the consistency in the vocal performances. His review was not entirely positive though, as he pointed out that \"with this album ... the band sometimes lose the balance between light and shade\", claiming that \"There's no sign of any kind of breakthrough song here, ... but if you take the time to explore this Blackened Sky you'll find a few shining stars worth exploring\". Jason MacNeil of PopMatters was similarly indecisive, concluding that \"Blackened Sky\" was \"Generally a credible first step despite some lapses in judgement\".\n\nAllmusic critic Dean Carlson was less generous, awarding the album a low rating of 1.5 out of five stars; the review proposed that on the album \"the band came across as all of the least interesting aspects of American grunge released a decade too late\", with the website claiming that Biffy did not live up to the hype they had received prior to the album's release.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157918", "title": "Judith Jarvis Thomson", "text": "Judith Jarvis Thomson\n\nJudith Jarvis Thomson (born October 4, 1929) is an American moral philosopher.\nShe was elected a Member of the American Philosophical Society in 2019.\n\nBorn in New York City, on October 4, 1929, Judith (Jarvis) Thomson was the second child of Theodore Jarvis (Javitz), an accountant, and Helen (Vostrey) Jarvis, an English teacher. Her mother was of Catholic Czech extraction, and her father was descended from a line of Eastern European rabbis, including Rabbi Hayyim Eliezer Wachs of Kalish and Rabbi Jacob Emden. Raised in an observant family on the Lower East Side, Theodore Javitz changed his name to Jarvis in 1918. His relationship with his wife, which began at socialist summer camp, was a source of tension for both their families.\n\nHelen Jarvis died when Judith was six, and Theodore Jarvis remarried two years later. His second wife had two children. She was a successful interior designer and an arts and antique dealer and importer.\n\nJudith attended elementary school in New York City and in Yonkers, graduating from Hunter College High School in January 1946. She went on to receive a B.A. from Barnard College in 1950, a second B.A. from Cambridge University in 1952 (at Newnham College, Cambridge), an M.A. from Cambridge in 1956, and a Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1959, all in philosophy.\n\nIn 1962, she began teaching at Barnard College, and in 1962 she met and married the British philosopher James Thomson, who was a visiting professor at Columbia University. After spending 1962–1963 at Oxford, the couple moved to Boston, where James Thomson was appointed professor of philosophy at MIT. Judith Thomson taught for a year at Boston University and, in 1964, was appointed to the faculty at MIT, where she is currently Laurence S. Rockefeller Professor of Philosophy. The Thomsons were separated in 1976 and divorced in 1980; they remained colleagues until James Thomson’s death in 1984.\n\nJudith Thomson has been visiting professor at the University of Pittsburgh (1976), the University of California at Berkeley Law School (1983), and Yale Law School (1982, 1984, 1985), and has held fellowships from the Fulbright Foundation (1950–1951), the American Association of University Women (1962–1963), the National Endowment for the Humanities (1978–1979, 1986–1987), the Guggenheim Foundation (1986–1987), and the Center for Advanced Study in Oslo, Norway (1996). In 1989, she was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and in 1992–1993 she served as president of the American Philosophical Association (APA), Eastern Division. In 1999, she gave the Tanner Lectures on Human Values on \"Goodness and Advice,\" at Princeton University, and in 2003, she gave the Paul Carus Lectures on \"Normativity,\" at the APA Central Division meetings. She taught at MIT for the majority of her career, remaining there as professor emerita.\n\nIn 2012, she was awarded the Quinn Prize by the American Philosophical Association.\n\nIn 2015, she was awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Cambridge, and in 2016 by Harvard University. In 2016, she was elected to a Corresponding Fellowship of the British Academy.\n\nThomson's main areas of research are moral philosophy and metaphysics. In moral philosophy she has made significant contributions to meta-ethics, normative ethics and applied ethics. Her contribution to her book with Gilbert Harman, \"Moral Relativism and Moral Objectivity\" (1996) defends the objectivity of morality against Harman's relativism. The papers collected in \"Rights, Restitution and Risk\" (1986) include discussions of assisted suicide, abortion, self-defense, and preferential hiring. And her work published in \"Goodness and Advice\" (2001) and \"The Realm of Rights\" (1992) cover basic issues in normative moral theory concerning the basis of moral rights and an account of goodness. Her work in metaphysics focuses on issues concerning action and events, time and parthood.\n\nOne thought experiment for which Thomson is especially well-known occurs in her paper \"A Defense of Abortion\":\n\nThe scenario is meant to suggest that the human right not to be killed can be trumped by another person's right to control her own body, when these two rights come into conflict.\n\nIn this paper, Thomson argues on the basis of the violinist thought experiment that \"the right to life consists not in the right not to be killed, but rather in the right not to be killed unjustly.\" Therefore, to show that abortion is morally impermissible, \"it is by no means enough to show that the fetus is a person and to remind us that all persons have a right to life—we need to be shown also that killing the fetus violates its right to life, i.e., that abortion is unjust killing. And is it?\" Thomson's article defends abortion rights and functions primarily as an argument by analogy in regards to the idea of mother/fetus consanguinity.\n\nThe paper meets reactions and criticisms from many different philosophers and bioethicists. Philippa Foot, a prominent Aristotelian ethicist argued that negative non-provision of service, as in the case of the violinist, is different from active killing, or interference, as in abortion (see Foot's book \"Moral Dilemmas\", 86–87). Thomson's thought experiment has also been replied to by Oxford philosopher John Finnis in \"The Rights and Wrongs of Abortion: a reply to Judith Thomson\". Thomson in turn replied to Finnis in her paper, \"Rights and Deaths\", reprinted in her volume of essays, \"Rights, Restitution, and Risk\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157939", "title": "Horseshoe Scout Reservation", "text": "Horseshoe Scout Reservation\n\nThe Horseshoe Scout Reservation is a Boy Scouts of America camp, owned by the Chester County Council, and located on the Mason-Dixon line separating Pennsylvania and Maryland. The name of the camp derives from the Octoraro Creek, a tributary of the Susquehanna River, that makes a meandering 4-mile horseshoe through the property.\n\nThe Horseshoe Scout Reservation is divided into two camps: Camp Horseshoe (in Rising Sun, Maryland), a Boy Scout-only camp, and one of the few long-term camps left in the United States that operates a 7-day program. The other is Camp John H. Ware, III (in Fulton Township, Lancaster County, Pennsylvania), known before 1985 as Camp Jubilee, which was first opened in the 1950s as an Explorer base, but later acquired permanent facilities.\n\nThe camp is a \"multi-use\" facility and hosts Boy Scout, Cub Scout, Venturing (BSA's co-ed Scouting) and other programs, including a Disabled Scout camporee, every year since 1994. In 2004, Camp Ware opened its \"Cub Town,\" allowing barrack-style sleeping accommodations to Cub Scouts, while several \"Webelos sites\" allowed 4th and 5th graders to sleep on platform tents similar to those found on most of the tent sites at both Camps Horseshoe and Ware. NYLT, Wood Badge and Powder Horn are some of the adult and Scout youth leadership training courses are held at Camp Ware during the off-season period.\n\nThe Horseshoe Scout Reservation opened for the first camp season in 1928 under the leadership of Charles M. \"Chief\" Heistand. Chester County Council purchased the property from the Reynolds Family, who occupied the land since the late 18th century. At the time, the property was haven for moonshiners operating illegal stills. When officials from the council first visited, it is said that the moonshiners fled the camp, having mistaken their uniforms and campaign hats for those worn by Pennsylvania State Troopers.\n\nVisitors to the camp can see stones marking off the Mason-Dixon line.\n\nUpon purchasing the property, the members of the council built three buildings: Browning Lodge on the old carriage shed foundation, the Allen Memorial Dining Hall (since expanded), and on the foundation of the old barn, the Kindness Center, a building built with funding from the ASPCA to remind the Scouts not to be cruel to animals. Other original facilities include an Olympic-size swimming pool (the largest pool east of the Mississippi River at the time), the Reynolds Family farmhouse (known as the \"White House\"), and five \"stockade\" sites: Sherwood Forest, Boonesboro (named for Daniel Boone), Kit Carson, Davy Crockett, and Bayard Taylor.\n\nSince then, the camp has expanded to include the following sites: Octoraro, Timberline, (Harold) Schramm, (Col. Clifton) Lisle, Dan Beard, (Gilbert) Rothrock, and Owen J. Roberts. Five of the sites; Octoraro, Timberline, Schramm, Lenni Lenape, and Dan Beard, are tent sites, while Rothrock and Roberts have adirondack shelters. Lisle, originally a tent site, was converted to a site with large pavilions.\n\nOther buildings at Camp Horseshoe include the Morrison Health Lodge (rebuilt in 2003), the Mahlon Rossiter Visitors Center, which is the Camp's headquarters, the Octoraro Memorial Lodge, which is the Order of the Arrow lodge for the Chester County Council, Schramm Lodge, McIlvain Lodge, Roberts Lodge (Horseshoe's Nature Lodge during summer camp), and Rothrock lodge. The camp's rifle range is located near Rothrock lodge, adjacent to the camp road, while the archery range is near the swimming pool, and an original Mason-Dixon stone marker.\n\nThe site for the \"Trailblazer\" program is located adjacent to the parking lot and Campcraft. This program is a first year camper program started by Tom Hillhouse that combines fun activities in every program area of camp with skill development for First Class rank. The C.O.P.E. (Challenging Outdoor Personal Experience) course is located near flag-pole hill and the chapel, adjacent to the main camp road, which was built in the late 1970s that replaced a road that was partially destroyed by Hurricane Agnes. Newer additions to the camp facilities include a new Scout shower house, William R. Hess Trading Post (called Trader Bill's), and a renovated Parade Field.\n\nRetreat Ceremony\nThis daily observance has changed little since the first season over 80 years ago. Scouts and leaders attend in full uniform. Scouts form as a troop, stand retreat, and pass in review. Leaders stand on the review line with the staff.\nTroops are judged on their marching skills and uniform appearance with a trophy awarded to the winner each evening. The judges consider if the troop is in step with a full stride, holds its ranks, executes a right column and two right flanks properly, and wears a complete Scout uniform.\n\nSaturday Night Campfire\nA special closing campfire is held at \"Achgeketum\" circle. Named for G. Ernest Heegard's vigil honor name, the camp's director for 29 years. \"Achgeketum\" is the Lenni Lenape word for \"teacher\". The entire camp assembles at the entrance to Sherwood Forest and follows a switchback trail to the circle. Following camp traditions, all Scouts who are attending Horsehoe for the first time are seated in the seats farthest from the fire while older Scouts enter through the \"Skull Gate\" and are seated closer to the fire. The center and outer fires are ceremoniously lighted and Order of the Arrow pageant follows. Next, the Camp Director serves as the master of ceremonies awarding the Horseshoe patch and year segment to Scouts in order of the number of years they have attended a week of camp. After Scout leaders are presented their patch and segment, they remain in the circle to present the \"Silver Buckle,\"\nThe Silver Buckle is awarded to one youth member from each troop who, in the opinion of his fellow Scouts, has above all others, demonstrated the finest example of Scout Spirit, the Scout Oath, and the Scout Law in his conduct throughout the week. The Scout selected must be from a troop of at least eight members, been in camp all week, be under the age of eighteen, and never have received the award before. The Saturday Night Campfire closes with the staff singing the Horseshoe song.\n\nCamp Horseshoe Song - The Loop of the Octoraro Bend\nWords credited to \"Kevin Grewell and Vance Hein\"\n\nTune \"Beaucatcher's Farewell\" by Bob Zentz\n\nIt all began with the dreams of old\nThe Indian Brave and the Pioneer bold.\nBy campfire light old tales retold,\nIn the Loop of the Octoraro Bend.\n\nThose early Scouts with their campaign hats,\nTheir pressed wool shirts, their boots and spats.\nRekindled the dream that had gone before,\nIn the Loop of the Octoraro Bend.\n\n\"Chorus:\n\"They built a camp upon the Mason-Dixon Line\"\n\"Historic land where values shine\"\n\"Old Horseshoe you memory will 'er be mine\"\n\"In the Loop of the Octoraro Bend.\"\n\nThe sun comes up over Flagpole Hill\nWhere Old Glory flew and is flying proudly still.\nAnd we'll march to the call at the end of the day\nIn the Loop of the Octoraro Bend.\n\nSo let's hoist our packs once again my friend\nWhere the waters flow round the tranquil Horseshoe bend\nAnd we'll hike and we'll camp in the old Scout way\nIn the Loop of the Octoraro Bend.\n\nHe served the camp upon the Mason-Dixon Line,\nHis years as chief numbered twenty nine,\nAchegektum your lessons will e'er be mine,\nIn the Loop of the Octoraro Bend.\n\nCamp John H. Ware, III is a Boy Scout and Cub Scout summer, winter, and weekend camp located in Peach Bottom, Pennsylvania on the Horseshoe Scout Reservation. It is organized by Boy Scouts of America. It shares the reservation with Camp Horseshoe, located on the other side of the Octoraro River. The camp, formerly known as Camp Jubilee, offers a wide variety of activities for young men to participate in while earning merit badges and advancing in rank.\n\nThe camp offers its accommodations in all seasons, however it is not staffed throughout the year. The only time when a full complement of staff is present is summer camp. During the winter camping season, the rangers staff the Trading Post, offering food and small souvenirs, including T-shirts and other supplies.\n\nThis is the most popular time at Camp Ware. Many weeks the camp is filled up to full capacity (250 persons, not including staff), and every area of the camp is open for use. This is when Scouts have the opportunity to earn merit badges toward their next rank, and the staff act as instructors and councilors to help them complete the requirements. The pool, while offering merit badges such as Swimming and Lifesaving, also serves as a recreational area for Scouts when they are not working on another merit badge, or during scheduled free swims for each troop. Scouts are encouraged to use the pool often as temperatures can be in excess of 100 °F. However, when it does reach these extreme temperatures, water coolers are set up at each area and everyone is required to drink plenty of water arriving and leaving (even at the pool). Troops staying during summer camp have seven campsites to choose from: Hawkeye, Pathfinder, Deerslayer, Mohican, Jubilee, Leatherstocking, and Trapper (the largest). The sleeping quarters consist of A-frame \"butterfly\" tents, with two Scouts or adults per tent. In the off season, the tarps that cover the tents are stored until next year, as are the metal cots.\n\nWinter Camp is usually not used for merit badges so much as bonding trips for troops who attend. Snowball fights are not uncommon in the parade field, and sledding is encouraged on the hill beside the rifle range. Usually troops make use of Macaleer Lodge (affectionately referred to by most as Cubtown, or the Red Roof Inn) during this time, because of its heating system and indoor facilities.\n"}
{"id": "2157940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157940", "title": "Terrasses de la Chaudière", "text": "Terrasses de la Chaudière\n\nLes Terrasses de la Chaudière is a complex of government office buildings in Gatineau, Quebec, Canada. The complex was built in 1978 as part of Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau's initiative to see more federal workers based in the Quebec side of the Ottawa River. It was built by developer Robert Campeau and then leased to the government. This arrangement caused some controversy as Campeau had close links to the governing Liberals. The complex was named after the nearby Chaudière Falls in the Ottawa River.\n\nToday its three towers hold some 6,500 federal government office workers. The complex houses Department of the Environment, the headquarters of Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada, the headquarters of the Department of Canadian Heritage (Jules Léger Building (South)/Édifice Jules Léger (Sud)), the headquarters of the Canadian Transportation Agency (Jules Léger Building (South)), the headquarters of the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC), and other government entities. The centre also holds a shopping complex, a hotel, and a convention centre.\n\nThe Central tower of the complex is the tallest in the National Capital Region, with 30 floors and a height of .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157942", "title": "International UFO Congress", "text": "International UFO Congress\n\nThe International UFO Congress is an organization in Arizona dedicated to the dissemination of information related to many aspects of ufology. It was established in 1991 and hosts an annual conference. Previously held in Laughlin, Nevada, the conference moved to the Phoenix, Arizona area in 2011. It features presentations given by authors, researchers, experts, enthusiasts, and those who claim to have witnessed paranormal or anomalous phenomena from all over the world. This week-long event usually has over thirty speakers, a film festival, vendors, and \"experiencer\" and findings-discussion sessions. Topics generally covered are alien abduction, UFO sightings, UFO crashes, crop circles, paranormal experiences, and government conspiracy. Previous speakers include Richard Dolan, Travis Walton, George Knapp, Jeremy Corbell, David Childress, Kevin Day and Alejandro Rojas among others. \n\nThe International UFO Congress was owned by the Brown family, who in 2010 turned over the conference to Open Minds Production.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157948", "title": "President of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic", "text": "President of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic\n\nThe President of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic is the head of state of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR), a government in exile based in the Sahrawi refugee camps of Tindouf, Algeria. \n\nFrom the declaration of independence on February 27, 1976 to August 1982, the head of state of the SADR was known as the Chairman of the Revolutionary Council. The office of the President of the SADR was established in August 1982, after a change in the constitution made by the fifth general congress of the Polisario Front, where it was decided the post were to be held by the Secretary-General of the Polisario. The first President was Mohamed Abdelaziz from August 1982 until his death in 2016.\n\nThe powers of the presidency are extensive, and they have been subject to modification in various constitutional amendments, the last occurring in 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157951", "title": "Irish Transport and General Workers' Union", "text": "Irish Transport and General Workers' Union\n\nThe Irish Transport and General Workers Union (ITGWU), was a trade union representing workers, initially mainly labourers, in Ireland.\n\nThe union was founded by James Larkin in January 1909 as a general union. Initially drawing its membership from branches of the Liverpool-based National Union of Dock Labourers, from which Larkin had been expelled, it grew to include workers in a range of industries. The ITGWU logo was the Red Hand of Ulster, which is synonymous with ancient Gaelic Ulster.\n\nThe ITGWU was at the centre of the syndicalist-inspired Dublin Lockout in 1913, the events of which left a lasting impression on the union and hence on the Irish Labour Movement.\n\nAfter Larkin's departure for the United States in 1914 in the wake of the Lockout, James Connolly led the ITGWU until his execution in 1916 in the wake of the Easter Rising. In turn, William X. O'Brien became the union's leading figure, and ultimately served as general secretary for many years. Throughout World War I, the ITGWU consistently opposed Irish belligerence, and staunchly supported the advanced nationalist cause. In fact, ITGWU members, in the uniform of the Irish Citizen Army, played a leading role in the Easter Rising, while the Transport Union led a national strike that crippled an attempt to introduce conscription to Ireland in 1918. \n\nIn 1923, Larkin formed a new union, the Workers' Union of Ireland, to which many of the ITGWU's Dublin members affiliated. The ITGWU nevertheless remained the dominant force in Irish trade unionism, especially outside the capital. William O'Brien and James Larkin remained bitter personal enemies, and when Larkin and his supporters were readmitted into the Labour Party in the early 1940s, O'Brien engineered a split in the party, with the new National Labour Party claiming that the main party had been infiltrated by communists. A further split occurred in the Irish Trades Union Congress when that body accepted the WUI's membership in 1945. The ITGWU left the Congress and established the rival Congress of Irish Unions.\n\nFrom the 1950s on proposals to merge the two unions were floated. Finally, in 1990, the ITGWU merged with the Workers' Union of Ireland to form SIPTU (Services, Industrial, Professional and Technical Union).\n\nThe ITGWU should not be confused with the British-based Transport and General Workers Union, which organised in Ireland under the name \"Amalgamated Transport and General Workers Union\" (ATGWU) and is now Unite the Union. \n\nThe union absorbed numerous smaller trade unions:\n"}
{"id": "2157956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157956", "title": "Foolkiller", "text": "Foolkiller\n\nThe Foolkiller is the name of four different fictional characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.\n\nGregory Salinger made his live-action debut in the third season of the television series \"Jessica Jones\", portrayed by Jeremy Bobb set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.\n\nThe original Foolkiller was introduced in \"Man-Thing\" #3 and killed in the next issue. He was created by Steve Gerber and Val Mayerik. In his brief \"Man-Thing\" appearance, the Foolkiller attempted to kill two major characters in the series: F.A. Schist, a real estate developer whose projects threatened the ecology of the Florida Everglades, and Richard Rory, a disc jockey who had denounced the Foolkiller's activities. His real name was not given until a later flashback in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #225, which stated that it was Ross G. Everbest (a variant of Gerber's Reg Everbest pseudonym with his middle name attached to it).\n\nGerber, Mary Skrenes and Jim Mooney created Greg Salinger, the second version of the character, which first appeared in \"Omega the Unknown\" #9 (plus a one-panel cameo in #8, which was written by Roger Stern and drawn by Lee Elias).\n\nGerber's \"Foolkiller\" miniseries, illustrated by J. J. Birch, was published from October 1990 to October 1991. It focused on a new version, Kurt Gerhardt.\n\nA new Foolkiller, Mike Trace, has appeared in two five-issue MAX series: \"Foolkiller\" (2007) and \"Foolkiller: White Angels\" (2009). He was created by Gregg Hurwitz and Lan Medina.\n\nIn 2016, Marvel announced Foolkiller's return in his own series, penned by Max Bemis, picking up the story of Greg Salinger as a personal therapist and, again, as the Foolkiller.\n\nThe original Foolkiller was more of a reactionary crusader than subsequent versions of the character. Upset by anti-Vietnam War protests and counterculture movements, he decided that sinners, dissidents, and criminals alike were \"fools\" who must be eliminated, and that he had been chosen by God to do so. He was inspired by a faith healer, Reverend Mike Pike, who cured his childhood paralysis. As a result, he became an evangelist with Reverend Mike as his mentor and soon became as popular as the Reverend. After catching Reverend Mike in a drunken orgy, he killed his former hero, preserved the corpse in formaldehyde, and used the preacher's money to fund his vigilante activities. He donned a flamboyant Zorro-like costume and acquired (by unknown means) his \"purification gun\", a raygun which disintegrated people instantly. Some of his victims were given a 24-hour warning in the form of a calling card: \"Foolkiller / e pluribus unum / You have 24 hours to live. Use them to repent or be forever damned to the pits of hell where goeth all fools. Today is the last day of the rest of your life. Use it wisely or die a fool\".\n\nThe Foolkiller had sought to kill Ted Sallis (whom he knew to be Man-Thing based on connecting news reports), disc jockey Richard Rory, and businessman F.A. Schist. During a struggle with the monstrous Man-Thing in the Man-Thing's swamp, the Foolkiller died in a freak accident, impaled in the heart by a shard of glass from the tank containing Reverend Mike. Everbest's soul is apparently in Mephisto's hell battling others in the \"Arena of Lost Souls\".\n\nGreg Salinger, imprisoned for disorderly conduct, heard the story of the first Foolkiller from his cellmate, Richard Rory, incarcerated on a trumped-up kidnapping charge. After being released, Salinger stole the Foolkiller's equipment and assumed his identity, using the \"purification gun\" to kill a number of people in New York including the supervillain Blockbuster. Unlike his religiously inspired predecessor, Salinger defined \"fools\" as those guilty of materialism and mediocrity, or anyone who lacked \"a poetic nature\".\n\nRory, feeling responsible for Salinger's breakdown and crimes, tried to help the Defenders arrest Salinger, by persuading him that he could join them as a superhero. However, Salinger had decided the Defenders were \"fools\" after their failure to capture another supervillain; he sought to kill Lunatik, and burned down their headquarters and was captured by the Defenders, but escaped in a road accident. Salinger reappeared, studying at Empire State University, where teaching assistant Peter Parker (Spider-Man) befriended him, then stopped him in the midst of another killing spree. When a homeless witness suggested that only a fool would fight Spider-Man, Salinger attempted to shoot himself, but was stopped, arrested, found criminally insane and institutionalized for good at the Central Indiana State Mental Institution in Weldon Creek, Indiana. He appeared briefly as a mental patient, where he was questioned by Captain America concerning a possible connection with the vigilante known as Scourge of the Underworld.\n\nHe also appeared as a seemingly much saner inmate, and was interviewed on the Runyan Moody TV show. He advised the third Foolkiller (Gerhardt) through a computer bulletin board, though their contact was finally discovered by psychiatrist Dr. Mears and the police.\n\nSalinger (now wearing an armored costume, and wielding conventional weaponry) would go on to join Deadpool's Heroes for Hire (later rechristened the Mercs for Money). While with the group, Salinger acquired a degree in psychiatry, which led to him becoming Deadpool's reluctant personal therapist.\n\nSHIELD then recruited Salinger as a psychiatrist to rehabilitate supervillains, with a catch: if they do not cooperate or make progress, then he is allowed to execute them.\n\nKurt Gerhardt had reached a state of homicidal despair after the random murder of his father, a divorce, the loss of his bank job (part of the savings and loan crisis), and being brutally robbed at his new job in a fast-food restaurant.\n\nThe first issue shows much of Salinger's life in the mental institution. He details nightmares and guilt to his doctor. He expresses a desire to write out his feelings, believing it will make him feel better. The doctor points out that the last time Salinger was given a pencil, he drove it into his own neck. Salinger promises it will not happen again. The therapist allows Salinger to use one of the institution's computers' word processors so that he can write letters. He decides to send his memoirs and thoughts to media and publication centers. No reply comes back.\n\nSalinger is noted by a popular talk show host, Runyan Moody, who browbeats his way into an interview with Salinger. Gerhardt sees this and via Salinger's secret use of the modem in his therapist's computer, they set up a correspondence via a computer bulletin board.\n\nSalinger directs Gerhardt to an old confidant who provides him with the Foolkiller costume and \"purification gun\". He eventually abandoned the gaudy costume, substituting a bondage-style leather mask and outfit (or appearing in a variety of disguises), and created a simpler calling card: \"Foolkiller / e pluribus unum / Actions have consequences\".\n\nInitially, Gerhardt directed his vigilante campaign at violent criminals, garnering some praise from the public, but his anger at abuse and neglect in general led him to kill drug-addicted negligent mothers and even their (albeit violent) children in a series of escalating massacres. His ever-broader definition of \"fools\" who deserved death broadened to include those guilty of what Gerhardt believed to be rank hypocrisy or stupidity.\n\nAt Burger Clown, Gerhardt develops a promising romantic relationship with a co-worker, Linda Klein. He becomes a popular man in his neighborhood. Acting heroically, even without the gun, Gerhardt saves an acquaintance from being run down by a drunk. Gerhardt, however, must be stopped from beating on the driver.\n\nIn a move celebrated by his friends at the restaurant, he gains a job at a credit agency. His work-neighbor is a crass, older man who enjoys using his power for thrills and cheap revenge. In a moment of weakness, Gerhardt even considers using his gun on this man, along with others who are guilty of only being annoying. This includes a younger man that he perceived as a possible competitor for Linda Klein's affections.\n\nGerhardt was especially frustrated at the public's thoughtless pursuit of instant or momentary gratification and this became the centralizing theme of his killing spree. Gerhardt abruptly broke off his relationship with Linda and sent a manifesto to the Daily Bugle newspaper. His ever-increasing kills become more violent, taking place in front of, and traumatizing, many innocent people. Once such incident is viewed by Linda who had recognized Kurt's voice although, for reasons unknown, she elected not to inform the police. Gerhardt even goes after 'foolish' celebrities, killing an industrialist who was stripping Amazon rain forest land to raise cattle for beef after learning of his criminal associations, and his having placed a bounty on his head in an attempt to turn the public hostile towards the Foolkiller. At the end of the miniseries, after escaping the police (his online communications with Salinger having been discovered) and having killed his drug lord nemesis, Gerhardt has his face altered with the assistance of his predecessor's friend. She carefully uses acid to mar his face. He leaves New York City to assume a new identity in Arizona and live in peace. As pointed out in the Appendix to \"The Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe\", Gerhardt's new identity resembles Richard Rory.\n\nUltimate Gerhardt, of an identical history to the original Gerdhart bar with a more sociopathic outlook on life, appeared in \"New Avengers\" as a Raft inmate, although the circumstances surrounding his capture have not been revealed. After Electro organizes a massive breakout, he was seen attacking Spider-Man with many other villains, after which he escaped.\n\nThe Hood hired him as part of his criminal organization to take advantage of the split in the superhero community caused by the Superhuman Registration Act. At some point he was captured and sent to Crossmore Prison for the Criminally Insane where he came into conflict with fellow inmate Deadpool.\n\nAfter repeatedly attempting to gain therapy from and then teach back what it means to be Foolkiller, all while acting on the orders of Hood, Gerdhart is shot in the face and killed by Salinger.\n\nEach version of the Foolkiller (except Mike Trace) primarily used a \"purification gun\", a pistol capable of shooting a laser-like beam of energy capable of totally incinerating a human being within seconds. They also used mobile computer systems and surveillance systems to locate and track victims. The first two also employed an armored truck outfitted with similar systems which also acted as a mobile headquarters.\n\nAll of the Foolkillers have been athletic men with no superhuman powers and all of them are criminally insane.\n\nEverbest was a charismatic preacher and skilled in several forms of hand-to-hand combat.\n\nSalinger is an amateur poet and is a self-trained fair hand-to-hand combatant. At one time he was said to have been in the army but was discharged for medical reasons, possibly related to his mental instability.\n\nGerhardt was skilled in basic hand-to-hand combat and had developed a high tolerance for pain. He was also a good strategist and a master of disguise.\n\nTrace does not use the purification gun; instead his weapon of choice is a swordstick.\n\nA new \"Foolkiller\" miniseries, written by Gregg Hurwitz, debuted under Marvel's MAX adult imprint, in October 2007. In a 2007 Newsarama interview, Hurwitz declared:\n\nI’m a Punisher guy. What Garth Ennis has done with Frank Castle really is what made me realize what comic books could do. The Foolkiller is obviously different in a number of ways from the Punisher, but he’s also perhaps the closest thing the Marvel Universe has to him.\n\nSimilarly, Axel Alonso, stated:\n\nHe was interested in writing a crime thriller and Punisher was off the table.\n\nThe Foolkiller of the Marvel MAX title is Mike Trace, a man who treats his murders as works of art. Typically, he will leave the bodies at the scene along with ironic indications of why they were killed. In one case, he murders a corporate industrialist and leaves the body in a trashcan filled with toxic waste from the industrialist's own factories. The story of this Foolkiller, however, is told mostly through the eyes of Nate McBride, a former enforcer for a loansharking operation. When Nate steals money to pay for his daughter's much needed heart operation, his employers punish him by killing his wife and younger daughter and threatening to kill his invalid daughter in thirty days if the money is not paid back. Nate, fearing for the safety of his hospitalized daughter, decides to enlist the help of the Foolkiller whom he had heard about from the news and from whispered rumors on the street. Although the Foolkiller initially berates Nate as a fool due to the life he leads, he takes an interest in their possible connection to a mob boss known as the Cheese. Nate acts as the Foolkiller's assistant, gathering information on the Cheese's henchmen and operations. As the Foolkiller begins to eliminate the Cheese's enforcers, the Cheese calls in a diminutive assassin known as Sickle Moon due to the sickle-shaped blade he employs. Foolkiller, concluding that Sickle Moon will abort his mission if his employer is killed, decides to go after the Cheese directly, with Nate acting as a diversion. While Foolkiller is successful in killing the Cheese, Nate is killed by Sickle Moon who, as expected, retreats after realizing that his employer is dead. Foolkiller carries Nate's body to the hospital and announces that Nate's heart should be suitable for a transplant for the daughter. It is not certain if the operation was carried out.\n\nIn the \"Foolkiller: White Angels\" arc, his latest target is a white supremacist gang called the White Angels, which lynched an ex-convict who had become a white-collar worker and had evidently turned his life around. The Punisher appears in second issue, since he is also targeting the White Angels.\n\nIn keeping with the realism of the Marvel MAX line, Mike Trace does not dress in a costume or use a purification ray gun. He will employ whatever weapons are available but his favorite weapon is a sword cane. He leaves a tarot card of The Fool at all of his killings. The tarot card has handwritten on it \"Are you?\". Trace also appears to be the only Foolkiller in the MAX continuity. However, there are oblique references to the Foolkillers of the classic Marvel Universe, such as the naming of a prison as the Gerhardt Detention Facility. In the first issue of the MAX series, while discussing rumors about the mostly unseen Foolkiller, there was a reference in character dialogue to the purification ray gun and Zorro-like costume of the original Marvel version, as well as the fact that one of them briefly worked at a Burger Clown restaurant. Since the Foolkiller's activities of the main Marvel universe were publicly known, it is likely that these were meant to be tongue in cheek.\n\nA cabal of fundamentalist super-soldiers modeled themselves after the Foolkillers of the 20th century. One of their number was encountered by the X-Men of 2099 after he embarked on a mission to assassinate all former members of Xi'an Chi Xan's original team, \"the Lawless\".\n\n\nIn 1990, Marvel released a Foolkiller (Kurt Gerhardt) card in their Marvel Universe series as a rookie superhero.\n\nThe Gregory Sallinger (spelled with two l's) Foolkiller appears in \"Jessica Jones\", portrayed by Jeremy Bobb. This version is a polymath and holds numerous degrees in law, psychology, chemistry, engineering, particle physics, and biology and is well trained in contact wrestling. He had an abusive father who preferred his brother Donny over him. While not confirmed, it is implied that his brother was his first victim. He then killed his friend and fellow wrestler Nathan Silva after growing jealous of him. Years later, he attempted to kill Erik Gelden when he found out about his murders only to accidentally stab Jessica Jones instead. He starts to target her and accuses her of being a \"fraud\" due to gaining super powers. Sallinger manages to outsmart Jessica, even kidnapping Erik and torturing him. Despite her rescuing him, he is not arrested due to lack of evidence and numerous other things. Sallinger decides to kill Dorothy Walker in order to get at Jessica, but ends up getting attacked by Trish instead. He is hospitalized and he forces Jessica to destroy any evidence she has collected on him or else he will release a photo of Trish attacking him. Later, Sallinger leaves the hospital to escape Trish and Jessica finds herself protecting him. Despite all this, Sallinger captures and tortures Jessica, only for her to reveal that she has recorded a confession from him and he is immediately arrested. Still angry over the death of her mother, Trish corners Sallinger in the elevator after subduing the guards and kills him while he is being transported to prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157959", "title": "Coka", "text": "Coka\n\nCoka may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2157962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157962", "title": "Moratorium to End the War in Vietnam", "text": "Moratorium to End the War in Vietnam\n\nThe Moratorium to End the War in Vietnam was a massive demonstration and teach-in across the United States against the United States involvement in the Vietnam War. It took place on October 15, 1969, followed a month later by a large Moratorium March in Washington, D.C.\n\nFred Halstead writes that it was \"the first time [the anti-war movement] reached the level of a full-fledged mass movement.”\n\nWhen the new Republican president, Richard Nixon, took office on January 20, 1969, about 34,000 Americans had been killed fighting in Vietnam by that point. During Nixon's first year in office, from January 1969 to January 1970, about another 10,000 Americans were killed fighting in Vietnam. Though Nixon talked much in 1969 of his plans for \"peace with honor\" and Vietnamization, the general feeling at the time was that Nixon's policies were essentially the same as Lyndon Johnson's.\nThe Moratorium developed from Jerome Grossman's April 20, 1969 call for a general strike if the war had not concluded by October. David Hawk and Sam Brown, who had previously worked on the unsuccessful 1968 presidential campaign of Eugene McCarthy, changed the concept to a less radical moratorium and began to organize the event as the Vietnam Moratorium Committee with David Mixner, Marge Sklenkar, John Gage, and others. Brown, who was 25 years old in 1969, was a former divinity student who had worked hard as a campaign volunteer for Senator McCarthy in 1968, developed the concept of the moratorium protests. Brown felt that protests should take place in communities rather than on university campuses so that \"the heartland folks felt it belonged to them\". Brown and other moderate leaders of the anti-war movement believed that the best way of bringing pressure on Nixon was to ensure the movement had a \"respectable\" face in order to win the support of the largest number of Americans, many of whom did not much like either the hippie counterculture or the radical New Left movement. The Vietnam Moratorium Committee sought the support of \"respectable\" groups like the civil rights movement, churches, university faculties, unions, business leaders, and politicians. Before the Moratorium of October 15, the North Vietnamese Premier Phạm Văn Đồng released a letter praising the marchers for trying to save young American men \"from a useless death in Vietnam\". In a speech written by Patrick Buchanan, the Vice President, Spiro Agnew, demanded that the organizers of the Moratorium disallow Đồng's letter and accused them of being \"communist dupes\". \n\nAs with previous large anti-war demonstrations, including the National Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam's April 15, 1967 march on the United Nations and their 1967 March on the Pentagon, the event was a clear success, with millions participating throughout the world. Future U.S. President Bill Clinton, then a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford, organized and participated in the demonstration in England; this later became an issue in his Presidential campaign.\n\nIn New York City, the day marked Game 4 of the 1969 World Series and included controversy as Mayor John Lindsay wanted the US flag to be flown at half-staff; however, Baseball Commissioner Bowie Kuhn overruled the mayor and ordered the flag to be flown at full staff. Also, Mets Game 4 Starter Tom Seaver had his face on some anti-Moratorium Day literature distributed before the game. Seaver claimed that his picture was used without his knowledge or approval. The Mets won that day's game in 10 innings and would go on to win the Series the next day. \n\nOver a quarter of million people attended the Moratorium march in Washington, D.C., where they marched down Pennsylvania Avenue in the evening bearing candles led by Coretta Scott King to the White House. Scott King told the marchers that it would have delighted her assassinated husband, Martin Luther King Jr., to have seen people of all races rallying together for the cause of peace. The rallies in New York, Detroit, Boston (where about 100,000 attended a speech by anti-war Senator George McGovern), and Miami were also well attended. Unlike the protests at the Democratic Convention in Chicago in August 1968 which led to a police riot, the Moratorium marches on October 15 were completely peaceful with the main theme being grief and sorrow over the war, instead of anger and rage. The journalist Stanley Karnow wrote the Moratorium marches were \"...a sober, almost melancholy manifestation of middle class concern...\". Speakers at the Moratorium marches included Coretta Scott King, Dr. Benjamin Spock, David Dellinger, W. Averell Harriman, and Arthur Goldberg. In his speech in New York, Harriman predicted that Nixon \"is going to have to pay attention\". About Nixon's statement that he would not be affected by Moratorium marches, the comedian Dick Gregory told the crowd: \"The President says nothing you kids do will have any effect on him. Well, I suggest he make one long-distance call to the LBJ ranch\".\n\nIn a statement to the press, President Nixon stated: \"Under no circumstances will I be affected\" as \"policy made in the streets equals anarchy\". On October 15, 1983, the White House press secretary declared that Nixon was completely indifferent to the Moratorium and that day had been \"business as usual\". In private, Nixon was enraged by the Moratorium and felt very much besieged as he felt that the Moratorium had undercut his policy of winning \"peace with honor\" in Vietnam. Nixon ordered his aides to start writing a speech to rebut the Moratorium protests, which took two weeks to produce a version that was satisfactory to the president. On October 19, 1969, Agnew in a speech in New Orleans charged that \"a spirit of national masochism prevails, encouraged by an effete corps of impudent snobs who characterize themselves as intellectuals\". Agnew also accused the peace movement of being controlled by \"hardcore dissidents and professional anarchists\" who were planning \"wilder, more violent\" demonstrations at the next Moratorium. In its coverage of the first marches, an article in \"Time\" remarked that the Moratorium had brought \"new respectability and popularity\" to the anti-war movement. In various locations all over the United States, over 15 million people took part in marches against the war on October 15. The success of the Moratorium marches was due largely to avoiding the violence that many Americans associated with the New Left and the hippie \"sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll\" sensibility that was widely considered to be anti-social.\n\nIn response to the Moratorium of October 15, on the evening of November 3, 1969 Nixon went on national television to give his \"silent majority speech\" asking for the support of the \"silent majority\" of Americans for his Vietnam War policy. In his speech, Nixon professed to share the goal of the protesters of peace in Vietnam, but he argued that the United States had to win in Vietnam, which would require keeping the war going until such a time that the government of North Vietnam ceased trying to overthrow the government of South Vietnam. Nixon implicitly conceded the point to the anti-war movement that South Vietnam was not important, saying the real issue was America's credibility, as he maintained that America's allies would lose faith if the United States did not stand by South Vietnam. Nixon promised that his policy of Vietnamization would gradually lower American losses in Vietnam; stated he was willing to compromise provided that North Vietnam recognized South Vietnam; and finally warned that would take \"strong and effective measures\" if the war continued. Nixon ended his \"silent majority speech\" with: \"And so tonight, to you, the great silent majority of my fellow Americans-I ask for your support. Let us be united for peace. Let us be united against defeat. Because let us understand: North Vietnam cannot defeat or humiliate the United States. Only Americans can do that\". \n\nThe public response to Nixon's \"silent majority speech\" was very positive with the phone lines to the White House becoming jammed in the hours after he gave his speech as too many people called the White House to congratulate the president. Likewise, the response to Agnew's speech attacking the media was positive in certain quarters of America, through unlike Nixon's \"silent majority speech\" where he professed to be speaking on behalf of the \"silent majority\", Agnew's speech was intentionally meant to be provocative and polarizing. As Nixon's public approval ratings soared, he told his aides in a meeting in the Oval Office: \"We've got those liberal bastards on the run now, and we're going to keep them on the run\". On November 13, in Des Moines, Agnew lashed out in a speech against the Moratorium declaring that it was all the work of the media who were \"a small and unelected elite that do not-I repeat do not-represent the view of America'. Agnew accused the media of being biased against Nixon and for the peace movement, and further stated his belief that the media \"to a man\" represented \"the geographic and intellectual confines of New York and Washington\". Agnew in particular singled out \"The New York Times\" and \"The Washington Post\" for criticism.\n\nIn early November 1969, two disclosures put the wind back into the sails of the antiwar movement. Colonel Robert Rheault of the U.S. Army Special Forces was charged with ordering the murder of a South Vietnamese official suspected of being a Viet Cong spy, which was described euphemistically in an Army report as \"termination with extreme prejudice\". More shockingly to the American people, it was revealed on November 12, 1969 by the journalist Seymour Hersh that on March 16, 1968 Lieutenant William Calley commanding the Charlie Company had ordered the My Lai Massacre, which led to Calley being charged with murder. The My Lai massacre become a symbol to the anti-war movement of the brutality of the Vietnam war, and much of the success of the second Moratorium march was due to the revelation of the My Lai massacre. Karnow described the United States by the fall of 1969 as being very much a polarized and divided nation with about roughly half of the nation supporting Nixon's policies in Vietnam and the other half opposed.\n\nThe first nationwide Moratorium was followed on Saturday, November 15, 1969, by a second massive Moratorium march in Washington, D.C., which attracted over 500,000 demonstrators against the war, including many performers and activists. This massive Saturday march and rally was preceded by the March against Death, which began on Thursday evening and continued throughout that night and all the next day. Over 40,000 people gathered to parade silently down Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House. Hour after hour, they walked in single file, each bearing a placard with the name of a dead American soldier or a destroyed Vietnamese village. The march was silent except for the playing of six drums, which played funereal tunes. The marchers finished in front of the Capitol building, where the placards were placed in coffins. Despite his public disdain, Nixon watched the march on television, staying up until 11 pm as he obsessively watched the demonstration outside of the White House and tried to count how people were participating, eventually reaching the figure of 325,000. Nixon joked that he should send helicopters to blow out the candles.\n\nThe vast majority of demonstrators during these days were peaceful; however, late on Friday, conflict broke out at DuPont Circle, and the police sprayed the crowd with tear gas. The people of Washington, D.C., generously opened schools, seminaries, and other places of shelter to the thousands of students and others who converged for this purpose. In addition, the Smithsonian Museum complex was opened to allow protesters a place to sleep. A daytime march before the White House was lined by parked tour buses and uniformed police officers, some flashing peace symbols on the inside of their jackets in a show of support for the crowd. The second Moratorium drew an even larger crowd than the first, and it is considered to have been the largest demonstration ever in Washington, D.C. The Woodstock Music Festival had drawn about 400,000 people in August 1969, and it was estimated by some that the second Moratorium had brought out a number equal to \"two Woodstocks\". \n\nPresident Richard Nixon said about the march, \"Now, I understand that there has been, and continues to be, opposition to the war in Vietnam on the campuses and also in the nation. As far as this kind of activity is concerned, we expect it; however, under no circumstances will I be affected whatever by it.\"\n\nOn Moratorium Day, half a million demonstrators gathered across from the White House for a rally where they were led by Pete Seeger in singing John Lennon's new song \"Give Peace A Chance\" for ten minutes or more. His voice above the crowd, Seeger interspersed phrases like, \"Are you listening, Nixon?\", \"Are you listening, Agnew?\", \"Are you listening, Pentagon?\" between the choruses of protesters singing, \"All we are saying ... is give peace a chance\". Others who joined the second Moratorium included the composer Leonard Bernstein, the folk music group Peter, Paul and Mary, the singer John Denver, the folk musician Arlo Guthrie and the Cleveland String Quartet who all played for the crowd. Four touring companies arrived to perform songs from the hippie musical \"Hair\". In San Francisco, over a quarter million of people took part in the march against the war on November 15. The school boards in San Francisco refused permission for high school students to take part in the second moratorium, declaring that the moratorium was \"unpatriotic\". As a result, over 50% of the students in San Francisco high schools missed classes on November 14, as they instead went out to protest against the war the day before the march.\n\nActivists at some universities continued to hold monthly \"Moratoria\" on the 15th of each month.\n\nFollowing the success of the November 1969 Moratorium in the United States, a series of citizen groups opposed to the war in Vietnam decided to band together to put on a Moratorium in Australia. Late in 1969, they formed the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign or VMC, which had its own executive, a permanent secretary and a number of affiliated organizations. The group that claims credit for mooting the idea is the Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament (or CICD), a pacifist organization formed out of the Melbourne Peace Congress of 1959.\nThe VMC and CICD certainly shared a number of members, among them Jim Cairns, who was made Chairman, and John Lloyd, secretary of both organizations. The VMC was, however, a much more representative body, including a wide variety of pre-existing Australian groups: Church groups, Trade Unions, radical and moderate student organizations, pacifist groups and anti-war groups. The VMC inherited the CICD's interstate connections with the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament (its NSW equivalent), the Campaign for Peace in Vietnam (SA) and the Queensland Peace Council for International Co-Operation and Disarmament, giving it a truly national character. The structure of the Moratorium, in Victoria at least, was conflicted - the VMC executive vied for control with the Richmond Town Hall mass public meetings, which could involve up to 600 members and usually went late into the evening, full of arguments over slogans and policies.\n\nWork began quickly to organize the Moratorium. The original date was set for April 1970, but changed soon after to May 8, 9 and 10, to coincide with protests in the US, just days after the killings of four students at Kent State. The demonstration in Melbourne, held on May 8 and led by member of Parliament Jim Cairns, had over 100,000 people taking to the streets in Melbourne alone. Similar demonstrations were held in Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide and Hobart. Across Australia, it was estimated that 200,000 people were involved.\n\nThe second Vietnam Moratorium in September 1970 was smaller; more violence occurred. Fifty thousand people participated and there were violent incidents between police. Two hundred people were arrested in Sydney. The Melbourne and Brisbane marches were held on September 18.\n\nThe third moratorium in June 1971 closed the Centre. In Melbourne, on June 30, 1971, there was a march of nearly 100,000 people. By this time public opinion was beginning to turn decisively against conscription and Australian involvement in the war.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157970", "title": "Noël François de Wailly", "text": "Noël François de Wailly\n\nNoël François de Wailly (31 July 1724 – 7 April 1801) was a French grammarian and lexicographer.\n\nHe was born at Amiens.\nNoël François de Wailly spent his life in Paris, where for many years he carried on a school which was extensively patronized by foreigners who wished to learn French. In 1754 he published \"Principes généraux de la langue française\", which revolutionized the teaching of grammar in France. The book was adopted as a textbook by the University of Paris and generally used throughout France, an abstract of it being prepared for primary educational purposes.\n\nIn 1771, de Wailly published \"Moyens simples et raisonnés de diminuer les imperfections de notre orthographe\", in which he advocated phonetic spelling. He was a member of the Institute from its foundation (1795), and took an active part in the preparation of the \"Dictionnaire de l'Académie\".\n\nHis works, in addition to those cited, include \"L'Orthographe des dames\" (1782) and \"Le Nouveau Vocabulaire français, ou abrégé du dictionnaire de l'Académie\" (1801).\n\nHe was the brother of architect Charles De Wailly and the grandfather of archivist and librarian Natalis de Wailly.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157975", "title": "The King's Grave", "text": "The King's Grave\n\nThe King's Grave (\"Kungagraven i Kivik, Kiviksgraven\") is an archaeological site. It is situated near Kivik in the southeastern portion of Scania, Sweden. The site is what remains of an unusually grand Nordic Bronze Age double burial c. 1400 BC.\nThe site is located about from the shore of the eastern coast of Scania.\nThese two burials are unique. In both construction and in size—it is a circular site measuring in diameter—this tomb differs from most European burials from the Bronze Age. Most importantly, the cists are adorned with petroglyphs. The images carved into the stones depict people, animals (including birds and fish), ships, lurs being played, symbols, and a chariot drawn by two horses and having four-spoked wheels.\n\nThe site was used as a quarry for construction materials until 1748, when two farmers discovered a tomb, with a north-south orientation, constructed with ten slabs of stone. Still, the quarrying continued and some of the stones disappeared. In 1756 the site was analyzed by antiquarian and archaeologist Nils Wessman (1712-1763). Wessman had undertaken extensive trips to Scania in the 1740s and 1750s for archaeological investigations.\n\nThe site was excavated by archaeologist (1880–1962) starting in 1931. From 1925 until his retirement in 1945, Hallström worked as an antiquarian at the Swedish National Heritage Board (\"Riksantikvarieämbetet\"). \nBetween 1931–1933, a thorough excavation was undertaken and the remains of a Stone Age settlement was found under the massive cairn, including a great deal of flintstone shards. Only teeth, fragments of bronze, and some pieces of bone were found, dating from the Bronze Age.\nThe mound contained two cists. On the left side of the cist's southern end, there were raised slabs of stone from a long and wide cist. It was named the King's Grave due to its size, long before it was known to contain two burials. Since the site has been subject to numerous lootings, there are no reliable finds, but it is believed that the two graves were built at the same time.\n\nAfter the excavation, the tomb was restored, but no one knows whether it looks similar to its original state. A comparison with other contemporaneous graves suggests that the site might have been three times higher than the as restored. The restoration was based on etchings from the 18th century and conjecture. A new chamber was constructed out of concrete and a tunnel extended into the cists. Today, it is possible for visitors to the site to enter the tomb and to see the engraved stones.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157976", "title": "T-money", "text": "T-money\n\nT-money is a rechargeable series of smart cards and other \"smart\" devices used for paying transportation fares in and around Seoul and other areas of South Korea. T-money can also be used in lieu of cash or credit cards in some convenience stores and other businesses. The T-money System has been implemented and is being operated by Korea Smart Card Co., Ltd of which 34.4% owned by Seoul Metropolitan City Government, 31.85% owned by LG CNS, and 15.73% owned by Credit Card Union.\n\n\nSimilar to its predecessor, the \"Seoul Bus Card\", T-money can be used to pay for bus, subway and some taxi fares. As of March 2017, T-money is accepted by:\n\nSome stores and attractions including Seoul's four palaces (except Gyeonghuigung), Lotte World amusement park, Kyobo Book Centre, GS 25, CU/FamilyMart and other selected convenience stores accept T-money as payment method.\n\nT-money cards cost 2,500 - 4,000 won and can be purchased and recharged at metro stations, bank ATMs, convenience stores and kiosks located adjacent to bus stops. Self-service recharge machines are also available at Seoul and Busan metro stations.\n\nIn 2014, \"One Card All Pass\"-enabled T-money was introduced. It holds \"One Card All Pass\" logo, and bears slightly different card number system compared to generic T-money. As of March 2016, \"One Card All Pass\" T-money is accepted at major retailers, most express bus and some intercity bus routes, express road toll booth, Korail railroad station, all metro system, and all bus system except Gimhae.\n\nThere are two types of discount cards available for sale, one for teenagers (age 13-18) and the other for children (age 7-12). One needs a proper ID such as a Youth Card or Student ID in order to purchase these cards. Discount cards must be registered via the Internet within 10 days after first use. Registration requires the number on the card, and a National ID number or Foreigner registration number, or, there is a form available on the t-money website (under English Errors) that can be emailed to customer service along with supporting documentation. Senior citizens are entitled to free transportation and can pick up free tickets at ticket machine in Seoul metropolitan subway stations with proper ID.\n\nSmaller, more durable T-money cards with a lanyard for easy attachment to cell phones are also available, for about 6,000~8,000 won. Watches, dolls, MP3 players, portable memory sticks, rings and bands containing T-money chips are also on sale.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157983", "title": "List of United Nations peacekeeping missions", "text": "List of United Nations peacekeeping missions\n\nThis is a list of United Nations peacekeeping missions since the United Nations was founded in 1945, organized by region, with the dates of deployment, the name of the related conflict, and the name of the UN operation.\n\nPeacekeeping, as defined by the United Nations, is a way to help countries torn by conflict create conditions for sustainable peace. UN peacekeepers—soldiers and military officers, police officers and civilian personnel from many countries—monitor and observe peace processes that emerge in post-conflict situations and assist ex-combatants in implementing the peace agreements they have signed. Such assistance comes in many forms, including confidence-building measures, power-sharing arrangements, electoral support, strengthening the rule of law, and economic and social development.\n\nThe Charter of the United Nations gives the Security Council the power and responsibility to take collective action to maintain international peace and security. For this reason, the international community usually looks to the Security Council to authorize peacekeeping operations. Most of these operations are established and implemented by the United Nations itself with troops serving under UN operational command. In other cases, where direct UN involvement is not considered appropriate or feasible, the Council authorises regional organisations such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, the Economic Community of West African States or coalitions of willing countries to implement certain peacekeeping or peace enforcement functions.\nIn modern times, peacekeeping operations have evolved into many different functions, including diplomatic relations with other countries, international bodies of justice (such as the International Criminal Court), and eliminating problems such as landmines that can lead to new incidents of fighting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157985", "title": "Chopping the blinds", "text": "Chopping the blinds\n\nIn poker games with blinds, chopping the blinds is a custom that may occur when all other players fold to the blinds before the flop. The blinds then remove their bets, ending the hand.\n\nChopping the blinds is a common occurrence in live ring games, whereas it is not allowed in tournament play (the small blind must raise, call or fold and cannot reclaim their bet), and is seldom, if ever, possible in play on the internet.\n\nPlayers generally chop for one of two reasons.\n\n\nIn higher limit games, players tend to be tighter, and it is more common for everyone to fold to the blinds. In this case, chopping would occur so frequently that it would be pointless. Furthermore, higher limit games are much more likely to be short-handed. Finally, the rake in higher limit games is usually much smaller in comparison to the size of the pot, and if a collection is taken instead of a rake, this removes the economic reason for chopping. For all these reasons, chopping is much more common in lower limit games than in higher limit games.\n\nWhile chopping is a very common practice, some players feel it is antithetical to the nature of poker, especially in short-handed games. Mason Malmuth gives the following reasons why he believes chopping damages a poker game:\n\n\nMany of these reasons overlap. For example, players who know each other tend to chop more often. This sometimes encourages these players to chop on future betting rounds, when everyone else has left the pot. This can be very confusing for other players, as it can give the illusion of partnership and collusion, even if such collusion is unintended.\n\nThere are some general guidelines that have developed in regard to chopping the blinds, which are as follows:\n\n\nThe important point is that a player's chopping policy should be made \"public\" and should be \"consistent\" whenever they play. If a player decides to deviate from his or her usual chopping policy for a single hand or a single session, this should be publicly announced. Players who constantly change their chopping policy from session to session, or worse, from hand to hand, in order to secure an advantage, are generally considered to be engaging in unethical behaviour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157988", "title": "Ulick Burke, 1st Marquess of Clanricarde", "text": "Ulick Burke, 1st Marquess of Clanricarde\n\nUlick MacRichard Burke, 1st Marquess of Clanricarde, 5th Earl of Clanricarde, 2nd Earl of St Albans (1604, London – July 1657, Kent), was an Irish nobleman who was involved in the Wars of the Three Kingdoms. Lord Clanricarde was a Catholic Royalist, who had overall command of the Irish forces during the later stages of the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland. He was created Marquess of Clanricarde in 1646.\n\nHe was the son of Richard Burke, 4th Earl of Clanricarde by his wife Frances Walsingham. Ulick's father was from an Anglo-Norman family who had been long settled in the west of Ireland and had become Gaelicised. Although during the early sixteenth century the family had rebelled against the Crown on several occasions, Ulick's father had been a strong supporter of Queen Elizabeth I. He fought on the Queen's side during Tyrone's Rebellion, notably during the victory at the Battle of Kinsale, where he was wounded. After the war he married the widow of Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex, a recent commander in Ireland, who was the daughter of the English Secretary of State and spymaster Sir Francis Walsingham.\n\nIn 1622, Ulick married Lady Anne Compton, the daughter of William Compton, 1st Earl of Northampton and his wife, Elizabeth Spencer. They had a single child, Lady Margaret Burke (died 14 August 1698), who married:\n\nUlick was summoned to the House of Lords as Lord Burgh in 1628, and succeeded his father as 5th Earl of Clanricarde in 1635. In 1636, he inherited Somerhill House on the death of his father. He was a staunch opponent of the policies of the Lord Deputy of Ireland, Thomas Wentworth, 1st Earl of Strafford, who had attempted to seize much of the great Burke inheritance in Connacht for the Crown; there was also personal ill-feeling between the two men since the dispute was thought by many to have hastened the death of Ulick's elderly father. He sat in the Short Parliament of 1640 and attended King Charles I on the Scottish expedition. Charles, unlike Strafford, liked and trusted Lord Clanricarde.\n\nSomerhill was sequestered by Parliament in 1645, following the Battle of Naseby. During the Irish Confederate Wars, Lord Clanricarde supported the Royalist leader Ormonde in defending Ireland for Charles I against the Parliamentarians by uniting Catholic and Protestant nobles (he being Catholic). He did not join the Catholic Confederate Ireland, but instead helped to broker a military alliance between the Confederates and English Royalists. He commanded the forces of this alliance during the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland, after Lord Ormonde fled the country, and soldiers of his Connaught army helped to win a minor victory at the Battle of Tecroghan. Only a few months later, however, his army was wiped out during the Battle of Meelick Island. Clanricarde was a skillful diplomat but not a great soldier. Like Ormonde, Clanricarde was distrusted by most Catholics in Ireland (he was widely considered to be a friend of the notorious Charles Coote) and thus was thus not capable of halting the Parliamentarian conquest of the country. He was also widely regarded as a man whose actions were governed almost entirely by self-interest.\n\nIn 1652, he made peace with the victorious Oliver Cromwell. He lost his lands in the Act of Settlement 1652 but his heirs regained them after the Restoration of Charles II in the Act of Settlement 1662. On his death the marquessate became extinct; the earldom passed to his cousin Richard.\n\n"}
{"id": "2158003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158003", "title": "Abu Road", "text": "Abu Road\n\nAbu Road is a city and municipality in Sirohi district of Rajasthan state in western India. It is the tehsil headquarters of Abu Road Tehsil by that name. It lies southeast of Mount Abu and its railway station is an important stop on the main Indian Railways line between Delhi and Ahmedabad. Mount Abu is 27 km up the hill from Abu Road.\n\nThe old name of Abu Road city was Kharadi. The Rajputana Malwa Railway set up the railway station here on 30 December 1880, and the station was named Abu Road. The road to Mount Abu was built in 1845, during the rule of Maharao Shiv Singh of Sirohi.\n\nAs of the 2011 India census, Abu Road had a population of 55,595. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Abu Road has an average literacy rate of 80.81%, higher than the state average of 66.11%.89.63% of the males and 70.97% of females are literate. 11.89% of the population is under 6 years of age.\n\nAbu Road enjoys all types of weather. In Summer, it's hot and humid with an average temperature of 40 Degrees with hot sandy winds. In Winter, it's 7 to 14 degrees, which is quite cold as compared to other cities in Rajasthan and in Monsoon, the average rainfall is about 14 to 20  inches per season.\n\nRIICO Industrial Area is spread over an expanse of . The main industries are marble & granite, miniature cement plants, HDPE bags, synthetic yarns, mineral grinding, ABS resin, and insulators.\n\nThe railway's diesel shed located here provides employment to a large number of people and holds an important place in town's economy. The Diesel Shed at Abu Road was commissioned by Indian Railways as a metre gauge shed on 26 October 1966. It was then the largest MG shed of Western Railway with holdings of 112 locomotives. With broad gauge conversion, the shed was converted to a BG shed with holdings of 60 locomotives. There are 68 supervisors and 570 workers in the shed.\n\nA diesel training centre is located at the shed that conducts promotional, refresher and special courses for locomotive running staff as well as formal training of shed maintenance staff.\n\nThe city being the largest city in Sirohi district is well-connected by road and rail.\n\nAbu Road railway station comes under the administrative control of North Western Railway zone of the Indian Railways. It has direct rail links on the broad gauge to the cities of Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Mysore, Hubballi, Bangalore, Pune, Mumbai, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Delhi, Dehradun, Muzaffarpur, Bareilly and Jammu. It is connected to most of the cities and towns in Gujarat such as Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodra, Bhuj and Porbandar. Thus providing transport facility to Sirohi and Jalor district..\n\nNational Highway 27 connecting Beawar in Rajasthan with Radhanpur in Gujarat passes through Abu Road, thus connecting it with the cities of Pali, Palanpur. Further, State Highways in Gujarat SH 712, SH 132 pass through Palanpur and connect Abu Road with nearby towns in Gujarat. State Highway SH 41 connects it with Mehsana & Ahmedabad. Abu Road is well connected via bus, more than 150 buses depart from Abu road to other cities.\n\nAbu Road has its own Air Strip which is not in use for transport purpose. The nearest domestic Airport is the Maharana Pratap Airport, Udaipur which is 164 km away and nearest International Airport is the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport, Ahmedabad which is 193 km far.\n\n"}
{"id": "2158005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158005", "title": "RADARSAT", "text": "RADARSAT\n\nRADARSAT is a Canadian remote sensing Earth observation satellite program overseen by the Canadian Space Agency (CSA). The program has consisted of:\n\n\nThe RADARSAT-1 project consisted of collaboration between the Canadian federal government and provinces, the United States, and the private sector. RADARSAT-1 was launched by NASA on November 4, 1995, although it was owned and controlled by the Canadian Space Agency. The project had a projected lifetime of 5 years, but operated for 18 years before failing in 2013. The goal of this project was to produce a satellite for earth observation by way of a Synthetic Aperture Radar, which is an advanced radar sensor and powerful microwave instrument capable of producing high quality images of the Earth during day or night and across a wide range of weather conditions including cloud cover, smoke, and haze. As a result of the versatility of RADARSAT-1, it has proven highly beneficial to both commercial and scientific users.\n\nRADARSAT-2 was constructed with several improvements over the RADARSAT-1 project, making it one of the most advanced radar imaging satellites in the world. Some of the improvements over RADARSAT-1 include increased spatial resolution, multiple polarization filters, solid state recorders, and GPS receivers on board.\n\nMain article: RADARSAT Constellation\n\nRADARSAT Constellation was constructed in order to make improvements on the previous model (RADARSAT-2). This rendition will use a constellation of three small satellites to provide greater coverage while minimizing service interruptions. This system allows for one of the three satellites to pass over an exact location every 4 days in comparison to the 24 day time frame of its predecessors. RADARSAT Constellation has an orbit around Earth at 600km making a full pass every 96 minutes with each of the three satellites separated by a span of 32 minutes. The mission aims to aide with disaster management as well as monitor ecosystems.\n\nRADARSAT International (RSI) was formed in 1989 to market, process, and distribute data from RADARSAT-1. It was owned by a consortium of aerospace companies consisting of MDA, Spar Aerospace, COM DEV International, and Lockheed Martin.\n\nRSI provided Earth-observation data and derived information products from RADARSAT-1 along with data from other commercially available Earth-observation satellites including Landsat 4, Landsat 5, Landsat 7, IKONOS, IRS, ERS, QuickBird, and ENVISAT.\n\nIn 1999, MDA completed a buyout of the other RSI shareholders and incorporated the company as MDA Geospatial Services Inc. (MDA GSI), a wholly owned subsidiary.\n\nMDA GSI holds the operating license for RADARSAT-2 under contract from the Canadian Space Agency.\n\nThe Canadian Ice Service (CIS) is one of the largest processors of the RADARSAT data. Once the CIS has processed the data at the Canadian Center for Data Processing (CCTD) in Gatineau, Quebec, it is then provided to clients such as the Canadian Coast Guard (CCG). Since RADARSAT data is readily available in near-real time, it is one of the best source of information to use for coastal monitoring, ship detection and maritime ice navigation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2158006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158006", "title": "San Quintín, Baja California", "text": "San Quintín, Baja California\n\nSan Quintín is a coastal town on the west coast of the Mexican state of Baja California, in the Municipality of San Quintin, some 190 km (118 mi.) south of the city of Ensenada on Mexican Federal Highway 1. The town is also in the middle of an important agricultural area, especially for growing strawberries and tomatoes. The largest nearby locality is Lázaro Cardenas, home to 16,294 people as of the 2010 census. The whole area (6 localities) houses roughly 25,000 people, up from 20,000 in 2000. This is the largest population cluster south of Ensenada within the state.\n\nThe coast also has many sand dunes, and is a popular place for off-road vehicles.\n\nThe town is on the west coast of the central Baja California Peninsula, near the Bahía de San Quintín, 300 km (187 mi) south of the San Ysidro–Tijuana international border along Federal Highway 1.\n\nThe Misión Santo Domingo de la Frontera lies 20 km north of San Quintín.\n\nSan Quintin is home to the largest agricultural company in Baja California- Los Pinos.\n\nIn the 1880s, a British land company with plans for a wheat empire purchased much of the San Quintín area from the US–based International Land Company; at the time, ILC owned most of northern Baja. In response to promises of agricultural wealth, around a hundred English colonists purchased subdivided land tracts from the parent company, planted wheat, and constructed a gristmill. For flour transportation, the English built a pier on inner Bahiá San Quintín and began constructing a railway to link up with the Southern Pacific tracks to the north in California. Thirty kilometers of track were laid, including a rail causeway from the west bank of inner Bahiá San Quintín, before the colony failed. A 17-ton, six-wheeled locomotive still lies underwater at the mouth of the bay, the remains of a loading accident for the aborted railway.\n\nA drought devastated one of the first wheat harvests, and by 1900 all the colonists abandoned San Quintín.\n\nRemnants of the gristmill, the railroad causeway, the pier, and an English cemetery still stand along the perimeter of the inner bay. The English names on the cemetery's heavily weathered wooden crosses have faded from sight, and more recent Mexican graves are beginning to crowd out their neglected English counterparts.\n\nRecently there has been foreign (especially Chinese) investment in San Quintin for the development of shellfish harvesting and export (especially abalone). A tourist hotel is also planned.\n\nA new abalone farm is under construction out at the beach west of town in La Chorera. They are working with both state and federal agencies to reestablish the depleted abalone population. \nOn October 28, 2015 residents voted 17,580 to 7,548 in favor of San Quintin becoming its own municipality By December 1, 2016 San Quintin was expected to separate from the municipality of Ensenada and become the state's sixth municipality. The agricultural plain roughly 50 kilometers from Camalu to Vicente Carranza, recorded a total of roughly 80,000 people in 2010.\n\nThe temperatures tend to run warmer in summer and cooler in winter compared to San Diego, but out along the Pacific Ocean coastline about 10 miles west of San Quintin, the climate is virtually identical to San Diego's weather, year-round.\n\nIn the realm of aquaculture, there are immense possibilities for growth. The extensive shoreline along the Pacific and the Sea of Cortes is in ideal condition, both biologically and economically speaking. The development and adaptation of aquaculture technology by Baja Californian institutions and the vocation of cultivating marine fish and mollusks have influenced the practice, making it a reality in present-day Baja California.\n\nDue to the development in the cultivation of oysters, mussels and abalones, aquaculture has secured its place in the fishing industry and the demand for fishing products is increasing on a global scale. Baja California is a pioneer in the practice and at the forefront in aquaculture. Natural resources are at their maximum exploitation or have entered over-exploitation. Aquaculture has proved to be an answer to this crisis, as it is the area in the primary food sector where there are significant records of growth.\n\nFishing has become a tradition for many in Baja California, being distinguished worldwide for its high quality and variety. Business is conducted with distant locations such as Europe and Asia in addition to the United States and parts of Mexico. There is infrastructure in fisheries of all kinds, including technological, scientific, and specialized educational infrastructure.\n\nEnsenada has many processing plants, canning machines, freezers, as well as fresh and live products, and gel production from seaweed. Several factories produce packages of different materials, such as tin cans, cardboard boxes, and extracted polyethylene packaging. The adjacent industrial areas in Baja California also facilitate the acquisition of equipment and spare parts.\n\nThere are shipyards and workshops to support the fishing industry as well as prestigious research centers for aquaculture that prepare students from a specialized secondary education, through technology programs in high school focusing on oceanography, to doctoral degrees in science. Resources have increased substantially in recent years, considering the aquaculture industry in Baja California began just two decades ago.\n\nTo date, significant progress has already been made, with the greatest development being the cultivation of the oyster in San Quintín, with Ostiones Guerrero, SA de CV being the oldest and largest producer of both Pacific Gigas and Kumamoto oysters in Bahia Falsa and home to La Ostionera, its signature restaurant on the bay where locals and tourists alike come to enjoy fresh oysters and other \"mariscos\". The local oyster harvests produce over 1000 tons annually as well as mussels, abalone and other local species. The Bahia Falsa is certified by the Food and Drug Administration of the United States which guarantees the quality of the products and facilitates the commercial concurrence to the markets of that country. \n\nRecently, Ostiones Guerrero, SA de CV signed a collaboration agreement with Stellar Biotechnologies of Port Hueneme, California to grow giant keyhole limpets (megathura crenulata) at their aquaculture facilities at La Chorera, constructed for abalone farming. Under this collaboration, the animals will be grown for the extraction of a rare blood protein from the limpets called KLH, used in immunotherapy treatments of cancer, lupus, Alzheimers and in early stages of clinical trials for treatment of diabetes.\n\nIn addition to the natural wealth and the relative absence of pollution, it shares a border with a California, an important market. The most diverse shipments of seafood from Baja California cross the international border between Tijuana, B.C. and San Diego, California. The Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) is located 138 miles from the border with Mexico. From there, regular shipments of live fish and fresh seafood are made, using a route from the Baja California fishing fields ending at the Tsukiji fish market in Tokyo, Japan.\n\nLázaro Cárdenas, Baja California \n\nBy land, San Quintín is communicated by the Federal Highway 1, which runs from Cabo San Lucas to Tijuana. By air, the San Quintín Valley is served by severals airstrips:\n\n\nThe San Quintín Airport is the only paved airstrip in the valley, but is a military field, so it is used for military aviation purposes only. The closest airports of entry are Ensenada and Tijuana.\n\nValle de San Quintin on facebook, is a very popular online source for latest news, events and weather. https://web.facebook.com/ValleSanQuintin/ \n\nXEQIN-AM, a government-run indigenous community radio station that broadcasts in Mixtec, Zapotec and Triqui, is based in San Quintín. The Coatecas Altas Zapotec dialect is spoken in the surrounding areas.\n"}
{"id": "2158008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158008", "title": "Advisory Committee on Postwar Foreign Policy", "text": "Advisory Committee on Postwar Foreign Policy\n\nThe Advisory Committee on Postwar Foreign Policy was a secretive committee created on February 12, 1942, to prepare recommendations for President Franklin D. Roosevelt on post World War II foreign policy. Predecessors included the similar Advisory Committee on Problems of Foreign Relations and the Division of Special Research. It was created by Secretary of State Cordell Hull at the suggestion of his assistant Leo Pasvolsky and Norman Davis of the Council on Foreign Relations. The committee appointed subcommittees on political problems, economic reconstruction, territorial matters, legal questions and the creation of an international organization, all under the direction of Pasvolsky. After four sessions, the main committee disbanded, Hull preferring to rely on the smaller subcommittees.\n\nChairman of the committee was Secretary of State Cordell Hull; vice chairman, Under Secretary of State Sumner Welles, Dr. Leo Pasvolsky (director of the Division of Special Research) was appointed Executive Officer. The committee included Dean Acheson, Esther C. Brunauer, Lauchlin Currie, Laurence Duggan, Herbert Feis, Alger Hiss, Harry Hawkins, Philip Jessup, Archibald MacLeish, Charles W. Yost, George C. Marshall, Henry Wadleigh, Henry Agard Wallace, and Harry Dexter White.\n\nSeveral experts were brought in from outside the State Department, mostly members of the Council on Foreign Relations such as Hamilton Fish Armstrong, Isaiah Bowman, Benjamin V. Cohen, Norman H. Davis, Anne O'Hare McCormick, James T. Shotwell and Myron Taylor. The international organizations subcommittee, the \"Special Subcommittee on International Organization\" included Welles, Bowman, Pasvolsky, Cohen, Shotwell, Notter, Green Hackworth, the State Department legal adviser and later Clark Eichelberger of the League of Nations Association, and eventually produced a draft charter of a new international organization. The economic policy subcommittee was led by Dean Acheson, and the economic reconstruction subcommittee by Adolph Berle.\n\nFrom March 1942, the committee was supplied with research secretaries by the Council on Foreign Relations' \"War and Peace Studies\" project, with each subcommittee being served by the secretary of a corresponding Council study group. Meetings were scheduled to allow secretaries to carry out Council work during the first half of each week with the remainder of the week spent at the State Department.\n\nIn early 1943, as the committee declined in importance, much of its work was taken over by the Informal Political Agenda Group composed of Hull, Welles, Taylor, Davis, Bowman and Pasvolsky.\n\n"}
{"id": "2158011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158011", "title": "Andy Sipowicz", "text": "Andy Sipowicz\n\nAndrew Sipowicz is a fictional character and protagonist on the popular ABC television series \"NYPD Blue\". Dennis Franz portrayed the character for its entire run.\n\nSipowicz was a New York City police detective working in the detective squad of the fictitious 15th Precinct of the NYPD, placed on the lower east side of Manhattan. He was the central character of the show during its twelve-year run, and the only one to have been a regular cast member in every episode. (Detective Greg Medavoy (Gordon Clapp) did not appear until episode 3 of the first season and did not become a regular until the start of season 2.)\n\nIn October 2018, creators Jesse Bochco, Matt Olmstead, and Nick Wootton revealed that the pilot for an \"NYPD Blue\" sequel was in production. The sequel will focus on Andy Sipowicz's son Theo, who has joined the police department and earns promotion to detective while trying to solve the murder of his father.\n\nJason Gay of \"The Boston Phoenix\" described Sipowicz as a \"drunken, racist goon with a heart of gold\" who was \"the moral core\" of \"NYPD Blue\". In 1997, he described Sipowicz as becoming \"sobered up\" but said Sipowicz \"won't ever go totally soft.\" Gay describes Dennis Franz as adding \"underrated, edgy mixture of grit and sensitivity\" to Sipowicz.\n\nAccording to a second-season episode aired in 1995, Sipowicz was about to celebrate his 47th birthday on April 7, implying he was born in 1948. (This would make the character three and a half years younger than the actor.) He is from Brooklyn, where he worked in a local candy store as a boy, later returning under sad conditions when a son of the shop owners organized a robbery that led to his mother's death. Both his mother and father were of Polish origin and had blue-collar backgrounds. His father was an alcoholic whose frequent drunkenness cost him his job as a meter reader. He defiantly returned to finish his route after dark, but was stabbed in the eye by a black man who mistook him for a robber. He claimed that the black man had tried to rob him; Andy grew up hearing the story, which was the basis for his racism. In season 6, however, he realizes that his father was lying, and begins to question the values he was raised with.\n\nBefore becoming a policeman, Sipowicz served in the U.S. Army, including an 18-month tour in Vietnam that he did not talk much about; however, it is an underlying theme in the show. He once became incensed when an obnoxious fellow cop named Sgt. Ray Kahlins, also a Vietnam veteran, lied about being in combat, and told Kahlins he could lie to his heart's content about anything else, but not about his Vietnam War service. Although the precise year is not stated, he joined the NYPD \"right out of 'Nam\" (as referenced in episode 4 of season 4),thus making his entrance to the force most likely no later than 1973. While in uniform, Sipowicz served under Al Angelotti, then a sergeant, in the 25th precinct. One of his early police assignments was infiltrating the Black Panthers organization and posing as a white leftist radical. These events accentuated his already-developing racist tendencies.\n\nIn 1979, Sipowicz received the gold shield of Detective Third Grade (the \"beginning\" rank) and briefly worked in the Robbery Squad before transferring to the 15th in the same year. He was promoted to Second Grade at an unknown time prior to the start of the series in fall 1993, and was promoted to First Grade in late 2001.\n\nSipowicz carries a .38 caliber Smith & Wesson Model 36 five-shot revolver as his main sidearm. This shows his \"old school\" approach as most of his fellow officers carry Glock pistols. The Model 36 was at one time an approved sidearm for NYPD Detectives until the switch to semi autos in 1994. Older officers were allowed to retain their revolvers if they so chose.\n\nIn the first season of \"NYPD Blue\", Sipowicz's partner is John Kelly, who leaves the force in 1994 after withholding evidence in a murder investigation of his lover Janice Licalsi. After Kelly's resignation, Bobby Simone becomes Sipowicz's partner. They soon become best friends; Sipowicz is devastated when Simone dies of a heart infection. In 1994, Andy begins to date Assistant District Attorney Sylvia Costas, with whom he previously clashed due to professional differences (Sipowicz calls her a \"pissy little bitch\" in the pilot episode). They get married in 1995 and have a son, Theo, in 1996.\n\nAndy was married to Katie Sipowicz for 11 years and they had a son, Andy Jr. (born 1973). However, by 1993 both his ex-wife and son were estranged from him, due to his heavy drinking. After being shot six times in an ambush by a mobster named Alphonse Giardella and almost dying, Sipowicz decides to change his life. He stops drinking, focuses on the job, and rebuilds his relationship with his son.\n\nOn his route to becoming a better man, Sipowicz struggles to overcome his bigotry with the help of his black detective squad commander, Lieutenant Arthur Fancy, and Simone. He also eventually comes to terms with his homophobia, mainly due to his initially grudging friendship with precinct Police Administrative Assistant John Irvin. With the birth of his second son, Sipowicz's life seems to be going well. However, a series of devastating personal tragedies over the next few years arise: in May 1996, Andy Jr., who is about to start work as a policeman in Hackensack, New Jersey, is shot and killed while trying to stop a robbery. The shooting sends Andy Sr. into an alcoholic relapse, during which Sylvia briefly throws him out of the house. In November 1998, Bobby Simone dies of an infection caused by heart transplant complications, and less than a year later in May 1999, Sylvia is accidentally killed by the distraught father of PAA Dolores Mayo (whose killer she had been prosecuting) in a courtroom. This is then followed by the disappearance and subsequent murder of Simone's successor Danny Sorenson during an undercover assignment in 2001. He also survives a serious bout with prostate cancer in 1998. With the exception of Andy Jr.'s death, however, Sipowicz remains sober in the face of all of these tragedies. He also has to deal with the fact that he had been instrumental in putting an innocent black man in prison for 18 years for the murder of a teenager, remembering that he had no experience as a detective and deferred to a lazy veteran cop. He is the only cop to apologize when the man is released (he learns that the perpetrator was a white man who later died of a drug overdose, and while Sipowicz and the now-retired veteran cop basically knew he'd been murdered, the end result of the case was left unresolved).\n\nIn 2003, Sipowicz marries for the third time, this time to a fellow detective named Connie McDowell, who had recently joined the squad. The year before, Connie's pregnant sister is killed by her abusive husband. The baby survives, so Connie and Sipowicz take custody of the child and name her Michelle, after her mother. Soon after, Connie, who had believed she could not have children due to scarring of her Fallopian tubes, becomes pregnant and gives birth to a baby boy named Matthew. With two infants to raise, Connie resigns from the police force to be a stay-at-home mother. Later that year, Sipowicz overcomes a personality clash with new Lt. Thomas Bale, is promoted to sergeant, and persuades a reluctant chief of detectives to name him the new squad commander. Sipowicz would have reached the mandatory NYPD retirement age of 63 in 2011 and, in the unaired pilot for a planned revival of the show, was murdered by an unknown assailant in 2019 at the age of 71.\n\nSipowicz was often portrayed in a tie and short sleeved shirt, coining the term \"The Sipowicz\" to describe such attire.\n\n\nIn 1999, \"TV Guide\" ranked him # 23 on its 50 Greatest TV Characters of All Time list.\n"}
{"id": "2158016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158016", "title": "Laurence M. Keitt", "text": "Laurence M. Keitt\n\nLaurence Massillon Keitt (October 4, 1824 – June 2, 1864) was an American planter, lawyer, politician, and soldier from South Carolina. During his tenure in the United States House of Representatives, he was included in several lists of Fire-Eaters—men who adamantly urged the secession of southern states from the United States, and who resisted measures of compromise and reconciliation, leading to the American Civil War.\n\nKeitt is notable for being involved in two separate acts of legislative violence in the Congressional chambers. In the first, Keitt assisted Representative Preston Brooks (D-SC) in his 1856 attack on Senator Charles Sumner (R-MA) in the Senate chamber by brandishing a pistol and cane to prevent other Senators from coming to Sumner's aid. The second was in 1858, when he attacked and attempted to choke Representative Galusha Grow (R-PA) during an argument on the floor of the U.S. House.\n\nWhen the Civil War began, he served as a deputy of the Provisional Confederate States Congress and later as a colonel in the Confederate States Army, until he was mortally wounded at the Battle of Cold Harbor in June 1864.\n\nKeitt was born at Puritan Farm in Orangeburg County (present-day Calhoun County, South Carolina). He graduated from South Carolina College in 1843, studied law, was admitted to the bar in 1845, and practiced in Orangeburg.\n\nA member of the Democratic Party, he served in the South Carolina House of Representatives from 1848 to 1853. From 1853 to 1856, he served in the U.S. House of Representative from South Carolina's 3rd District.\n\nKeitt was censured by the House in 1856 for aiding Rep. Preston Brooks in his Caning of Charles Sumner. Brooks had considered challenging Sumner to a duel after Sumner's anti-slavery \"The Crime Against Kansas\" speech, which Brooks interpreted as an insult to his cousin, Senator Andrew Butler. After consulting with Keitt and deciding that Sumner was no gentleman, and therefore not worthy of a duel, Brooks resolved to beat Sumner with a cane instead.\n\nWith Keitt and Virginia Representative Henry A. Edmundson on hand to assist, on May 22, 1856, Brooks entered the Senate chamber and began beating the defenseless Sumner with his gold-headed cane, while Edmundson and Keitt prevented others from stopping Brooks or aiding Sumner. Keitt drew a pistol from his belt and brandished his own cane, holding off the horror-struck senators who tried to assist Sumner, loudly announcing \"Let them be!\" In July, the House censured Keitt for his part in the attack. He resigned in order to create a vacancy that would be filled by special election, thus giving his constituents the opportunity to ratify or condemn his conduct. They supported Keitt's actions, overwhelmingly returning him to Congress in the August special election. He served until December 1860, when South Carolina seceded from the Union.\n\nOn February 5, 1858, Keitt started a massive brawl on the House floor during a tense late-night debate. Keitt, offended by Pennsylvania Congressman (and later Speaker of the House) Galusha A. Grow, a Republican, having stepped over to the Democratic side of the House chamber, dismissively demanded that Grow sit down, calling him a \"black Republican puppy\". Grow responded by telling Keitt that \"No negro-driver shall crack his whip over me.\" Keitt became enraged and went for Grow's throat, shouting that he would \"choke [him] for that\". A large brawl involving approximately 50 representatives erupted on the House floor, ending only when a missed punch from Rep. Cadwallader Washburn of Wisconsin upended the hairpiece of Rep. William Barksdale of Mississippi. The embarrassed Barksdale accidentally replaced the wig backwards, causing both sides to erupt in spontaneous laughter.\n\nPerhaps Keitt's most famous quotation best summarized his political views and dominant agenda. In 1860, Congressman Keitt said, \"The anti-slavery party contends that slavery is wrong in itself, and the government is a consolidated national democracy. We of the South contend that slavery is right, and that this is a confederate republic of sovereign states.\"\n\nAfter South Carolina's secession Keitt served as a delegate to the Provisional Confederate Congress from 1861 to 1862.\n\nKeitt later joined the Confederate States Army, and attained the rank of colonel as commander of the 20th South Carolina Volunteer Infantry Regiment. He later commanded Kershaw's Brigade, succeeding to this position after Kershaw advanced to command of a division.\n\nMortally wounded at the Battle of Cold Harbor on June 1, 1864, Keitt died the next day near Richmond, Virginia. He is buried at West End Cemetery in St. Matthews, South Carolina.\n\n\nHolt Merchant, \"South Carolina Fire-Eater: The Life of Laurence Massillon Keitt, 1824-1864 \"(University of South Carolina Press, 2014)\"\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2158021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158021", "title": "Johann Michael Bach", "text": "Johann Michael Bach\n\nJohann Michael Bach (baptised , Arnstadt, Schwarzburg-Sondershausen – , Gehren) was a German composer of the Baroque period. He was the brother of Johann Christoph Bach, as well as first cousin, once removed and father-in-law of Johann Sebastian Bach (he was the father of J.S. Bach's first wife Maria Barbara Bach). He is sometimes referred to as the \"Gehrener Bach\" to distinguish him from the \"Wuppertaler Bach\", Johann Michael Bach (1745–1820).\n\nJohann Michael was born at Arnstadt, the son of Heinrich Bach, who was the great uncle of Johann Sebastian Bach. In 1673, Johann Michael became the organist and town clerk of Gehren, where he lived until his death.\n\nHis most-performed work is the small chorale prelude for organ, \"In Dulci Jubilo,\" which for many years was attributed to J. S. Bach (it was ascribed the catalog number BWV 751). His other most important works include cantatas \"Ach, bleib bei uns, Herr Jesu Christ\" (for choir, strings and continuo), \"Liebster Jesu, hör mein Flehen\" (for soprano, alto, two tenors, bass, strings and continuo), and \"Ach, wie sehnlich wart' ich der Zeit\" (also for soprano, strings, and continuo).\n\n\nIn addition to composing music, J. M. Bach made musical instruments, including harpsichords.\n\n"}
{"id": "2158036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158036", "title": "Craig Goldy", "text": "Craig Goldy\n\nThomas \"Craig\" Goldy is an American guitarist, most notably of the band Dio and Giuffria.\n\nGoldy was born in San Diego, California. Before Dio, he played in the bands Vengeance, Rough Cutt, and Giuffria. He replaced Jake E. Lee in Rough Cutt and was himself replaced by Amir Derakh. While with Rough Cutt, Goldy played on demos produced by Ronnie James Dio.\n\nShortly after leaving Rough Cutt, Goldy would join Giuffria, the eponymous band of former Angel keyboardist, Gregg Giuffria. Performing on Giuffria's self-titled debut album, released in 1984, Goldy is heard on the band's biggest hit, \"Call to the Heart,\" which hit #15 on the Billboard charts in early 1985.\n\nGoldy performed on the Dio album \"Dream Evil\", but this first stint with the band was short lived and he left due to unknown reasons. In 2000, Goldy returned to Dio and helped record \"Magica\", but shortly thereafter left again due to family commitments. Doug Aldrich replaced him for the album, \"Killing the Dragon\". However, Goldy was back in the Dio fold for what turned out to be the band's final studio album, \"Master of the Moon\", in 2004. Goldy temporarily left the group for the third time in 2005, after suffering a hand injury on tour through Russia. He was again replaced by Doug Aldrich for the duration of the tour.\n\nGoldy was featured in Hear 'n Aid - Stars project while still in Giuffria, alongside other players such as Adrian Smith and Dave Murray of Iron Maiden, Yngwie Malmsteen, Brad Gillis and others.\n\nGoldy was the original guitarist of a supergroup consisting of himself, singer Rob Rock, bassist Rudy Sarzo, and drummer Tommy Aldridge. But before the recording of Project Driver, he left the group to join Dio and was subsequently replaced by Tony MacAlpine.\n\nAfter exiting Dio, Goldy formed his own band, Craig Goldy's Ritual, and signed a deal with Grand Slamm Records for the release of \"Hidden In Plain Sight\" in 1991. The album featured lead vocals by Goldy's former Guiffria bandmate David Glen Eisley and future Queensrÿche guitarist Mike Stone.\n\nGoldy co-wrote the song \"Lady Luck\" with David Lee Roth on the latter's 1991 album \"A Little Ain't Enough\".\n\nIn 1993, Goldy released his first solo album, \"Insufficient Therapy\", on Shrapnel Records, with Jeff Pilson co-writing and contributing lead vocals on 4 songs. A follow-up, the all-instrumental \"Better Late Than Never\", was released in 1995. During that time, Goldy and Pilson also collaborated in a progressive heavy rock project named 13th Floor although no album was ever released.\n\nIn February 2008 Goldy accompanied Welsh heavy metal pioneers Budgie on their first tour of Australia and subsequently continued playing with the group as 'guest guitarist'. Budgie's live activities came to an abrupt end when vocalist/bassist Burke Shelley was hospitalized on November 9, 2010 in Wejherowo, Poland with an aortic aneurism. Shelley can no longer sing and play at the same time.\n\nIn 2011, Goldy became a member of Dio Disciples along with former Dio band members Scott Warren, Rudy Sarzo and Simon Wright, and former Judas Priest vocalist Tim \"Ripper\" Owens. Goldy and Warren are currently the only members left of the original Dio Disciples line-up.\n\nIn 2014, Goldy announced a new collaboration with former Quiet Riot vocalist Mark Huff and the release of 2 songs, \"Hole In My Heart\" and \"Dark Rainbow\", in tribute to his former mentor Ronnie James Dio. The duo has since been joined by Brazilian born bassist Dario Seixas, MSG guitarist/keyboardist Wayne Findlay, and former Cry Wolf drummer Chris Moore.\n\nIn October 2014, Goldy was announced as part of the 2015 XG Extreme Guitar Tour line-up alongside Uli Jon Roth and Vinnie Moore. Goldy is set to perform with his all-star band Black Knights Rising featuring drummer Vinny Appice, vocalist Mark Boals, keyboardist Allesandro Bertoni, and bassist Elliott Rubinson.\n\nIn January 2016, Goldy released a new collaboration called Resurrection Kings with drummer Vinny Appice, bassist Sean McNabb and vocalist Chas West. The recording was released January 26, 2016 on Frontiers Records.\n\nOn 17 September 2018, Goldy's latest project, Dream Child, will release their debut album entitled Until Death Do We Meet Again, on Frontiers Records. The line-up consists of Craig Goldy on guitar, Wayne Findlay on guitars & keys, Rudy Sarzo on bass guitar, Simon Wright on drums & Diego Valdez on vocals.\n\nHis main guitar was a B.C. Rich Warlock, however, he now uses an ESP M-II through ENGL Powerball amplifiers. He has modified the guitar by switching the EMG pickups with Seymour Duncan pickups. He also played a Yamaha Pacifica 1221M on Insufficient Therapy solo album and the 2001 tour with Dio\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGoldy expressed his feelings regarding the passing of Dio (excerpt):\n\n\"Ronnie James Dio is and was more than a legendary musician, friend and fellow band member, he was my family. He is the reason anyone really even knows who I am at all and why I exist. He rescued me from sleeping in a car on the streets of San Diego and Los Angeles and brought me into his world where dreams come true, kindness to strangers and fans, warmth, humility and integrity are paramount and where creativity could be without boundaries that could change people's lives forever. I know he changed mine. Not just through his music and the voice that turned his unique abilities into a legend, but who he was as a person and how he treated me and everyone he came in contact with directly and indirectly.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2158041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158041", "title": "Gaberlunzie", "text": "Gaberlunzie\n\nGaberlunzie is a medieval Scots word for a licensed beggar. The name may derive from the wallet that such people carried, but there is no other known derivation. The word appears in several of Sir Walter Scott's books.\n\nGaberlunzies were also known as King's Bedesmen or blue gouns (the gowns were part of the alms given by the monarch). Scott gives an account of the customs and of particular Bedesmen he knew in the introduction to \"The Antiquary\".\n\nScotsman Donald Farfrae uses the word in Thomas Hardy's \"The Mayor of Casterbridge\": \"There are not perpetual snow and wolves at all in it!—except snow in winter, and—well—a little in summer just sometimes, and a 'gaberlunzie' or two stalking about here and there, if ye may call them dangerous.\"\n\nThe word also makes an appearance in novels in Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey–Maturin series - \"Treason's Harbour\" and \"The Hundred Days\".\n\nThe word is also referenced in the Outlander series--Episode 8 of Season 1. A character by the name of Hugh Munro wears many tokens on his chest, granting him permission to beg in different Scottish parishes.\n\nIt can be spelled \"gaberlunyie\", since the \"z\" was originally a yogh.\n\nThere is a Scottish folk duo of the same name, who have performed since the early 1970s.\n\n\n\nIt also appears in The Fiery Cross by Diana Gabaldon."}
{"id": "2158045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158045", "title": "Woburn Square", "text": "Woburn Square\n\nWoburn Square is the smallest of the Bloomsbury squares and owned by the University of London. Designed by Thomas Cubitt and built between 1829 and 1847, it is named after Woburn Abbey, the main country seat of the Dukes of Bedford, who developed much of Bloomsbury.\n\nThe original construction was of 41 houses, smaller than those of adjoining Gordon Square and hence with lower rents. The square was built on the boundary between the parishes of St. Pancras and Holborn and the boundary marker stones are still visible in the gardens. The two squares were built to improve land that was originally marshland.\n\nThis narrow square was longer, extending down towards Russell Square, before the southern half and the Lewis Vulliamy designed Christ Church were demolished in the 1970s to make space for new buildings for the School of Oriental and African Studies and the Institute of Education.\n\nOther squares on the Bedford Estate in Bloomsbury included:\nadditionally places of interest\n\n"}
{"id": "2158046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158046", "title": "Ian Maclaren", "text": "Ian Maclaren\n\nRev Dr John Watson DD (3 November 1850 – 6 May 1907), was a minister of the Free Church of Scotland. He is remembered as an author of fiction, known by his pen name Ian Maclaren.\n\nThe son of John Watson, a civil servant, he was born in Manningtree, Essex, and educated at Stirling. His paternal uncle Rev Hiram Watson (1813-1891) was a minister of the Free Church of Scotland and John appears to have chosen to follow in his shoes.\n\nHe studied at Edinburgh University, then trained as a Free Church minister at New College in Edinburgh, also undertaking some postgraduate study at Tübingen.\n\nIn 1874 he was licensed by the Free Church of Scotland and became assistant minister of Edinburgh Barclay Church. In 1875 he was ordained as minister at Logiealmond in Perthshire. In 1877 he was translated to St Matthews Free Church in Glasgow. In Glasgow he lived at 44 Windsor Terrace. In 1880 he became minister of Sefton Park Presbyterian Church in Liverpool, from which he retired in 1905. During this period he was a main mover in the founding of the Westminster College in Cambridge.\n\nIn 1896 he was Lyman Beecher lecturer at Yale University, and in 1900 he was moderator of the synod of the English Presbyterian Church. While travelling in the United States he died from blood poisoning, following a bout with tonsilitis, at Mount Pleasant, Iowa. His body was returned to England, and buried in Smithdown Cemetery in Liverpool.\n\nMaclaren's first stories of rural Scottish life, \"Beside the Bonnie Brier Bush\" (1894), achieved extraordinary popularity, selling more than 700,000 copies, and was succeeded by other successful books, \"The Days of Auld Lang Syne\" (1895), \"Kate Carnegie and those Ministers\" (1896), and \"Afterwards and other Stories\" (1898). By his own name Watson published several volumes of sermons, among them being \"The Upper Room\" (1895), \"The Mind of the Master\" (1896) and \"The Potter's Wheel\" (1897). Today he is regarded as one of the principal writers of the Kailyard school.\n\nIt is thought that Maclaren was the original source of the quotation “Be kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a hard battle,” now widely misattributed to Plato or Philo of Alexandria. The oldest known instance of this quotation is in the 1897 Christmas edition of \"The British Weekly\", penned by Maclaren: “Be pitiful, for every man is fighting a hard battle.”\n\nThe highly impressive St Matthews Free Church became the Highland Memorial Church in 1941 and was destroyed by fire in 1952.\n\nIn 1878 he married Jane B Ferguson.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2158048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158048", "title": "Sylvain Distin", "text": "Sylvain Distin\n\nSylvain Distin (born 16 December 1977) is a French former footballer. He is left-footed and played as a central defender, and was also capable of playing at left-back.\n\nDistin began his career playing for French amateur sides in the CFA, and worked his way up to professional sides Gueugnon and subsequently Paris Saint-Germain. He moved to England in 2001, first joining Newcastle United on a loan move from PSG, before signing a permanent contract with Manchester City, where he spent five seasons. He then spent two years at Portsmouth where he won the FA Cup, before joining Everton in 2009. In six seasons at Goodison Park, he made 210 appearances across all competitions, leaving in 2015 for AFC Bournemouth.\n\nAfter one season with Bournemouth, Distin was released when his contract expired in June 2016. He played sixteen consecutive seasons in the Premier League, with over 450 appearances in England's top flight – the most of any foreign outfield player,\n\nBorn in Bagnolet, Distin started his career at French non-league side Joué-lès-Tours before moving to Tours a year later, where he played 26 times and scored three goals. He then transferred to Gueugnon of Ligue 2, signing his first professional contract. With Gueugnon he won the Coupe de la Ligue in 2000. His performances for Gueugnon prompted Paris Saint-Germain to sign him, though his time at PSG was short-lived and after a year, Distin went on loan to Newcastle United where he made 35 appearances in all competitions.\n\nFollowing the loan spell, Newcastle wanted to sign Distin permanently but he instead opted to sign for Manchester City where he could play in his preferred position of central defence, rather than left-back at Newcastle. The transfer fee was £4 million, setting a club record for a defender. Consistent performances in his first Manchester City season resulted in Distin being named the club's Player of the Year for the 2002–03 season. At the start of the 2003–04 season, Distin was named captain of Manchester City following the retirement of Ali Benarbia. In total, Distin played 207 times for Manchester City and scored six goals.\n\nDistin left City at the end of his contract in May 2007, seeking a \"fresh challenge\", and moved to Portsmouth on a three-year deal. Distin was appointed vice captain by Harry Redknapp and led Portsmouth in Sol Campbell's absences due to injury. At the end of Distin's first season at Fratton Park, he won his first and only major honour in English football, the 2008 FA Cup.\n\nAfter Sol Campbell's departure from Portsmouth, Distin was named the new club captain.\n\nIn August 2009, Everton signed Distin from Portsmouth for a fee of about £5 million on a three-year contract. He was given the number 15 shirt and made his debut in a 2–1 victory over Wigan Athletic. On 17 September 2009 he scored his first goal for Everton in the UEFA Europa League against Greek team AEK Athens. He scored his second goal for Everton in the UEFA Europa League on 16 February 2010 against Sporting CP to give Everton a 2–1 win. Distin was later sent off resulting in Sporting's goal from the penalty spot after a poor touch following an equally poor Jack Rodwell pass. Distin scored his first league goal for the club against Liverpool on 16 January 2011, heading in from a corner at the start of the second half. During his 2011–12 season, Distin assisted goalkeeper Tim Howard's 100-yard goal, notable as only the fourth goal from a keeper in the history of the Premier League.\n\nOn 14 April 2012, he made a rare mistake in the FA Cup semi-final when a poor back pass gifted Luis Suárez the equalising goal for Merseyside rivals Liverpool. Everton went on to lose the game 2–1, and Distin took to Twitter to apologise to the Everton fans. However, he was named Everton's players' player of the year at the end of season awards ceremony, and then agreed a one-year contract extension to stay at the club for the 2012–13 season.\nOn 24 January 2013, Distin signed a new one-year contract with Everton, keeping him at the club until the summer of 2014. On 23 February, he made his 400th Premier League appearance against Norwich City at Carrow Road. A few weeks later he made his 402nd appearance – more than any other foreign outfield player. Distin's centre back partnership with Phil Jagielka remained Everton's first choice through the 2013–14 season, despite the emergence of John Stones, with the club finishing fifth with their record Premier League points tally of 72. He signed a new one-year contract to keep him at the club until the summer of 2015.\n\nIn June 2015, after being released by Everton at the end of the 2014–15 season, Distin agreed in principle, a free transfer to newly promoted AFC Bournemouth, signing on 1 July.\n\nDistin spent one season with Bournemouth and was released when his contract expired at the end of June 2016.\n\nIn 2003 Distin represented the \"L'équipe de l'amitié\" in a posthumous testimonial game for his former Manchester City teammate, Marc-Vivien Foé, versus the Cameroon national football team.\n\nIn addition to France, Distin is also eligible to play for the non-FIFA affiliated nation of Guadeloupe as his father was born in Guadeloupe. Distin was approached to play in the 2011 CONCACAF Gold Cup by the Guadeloupean Federation but rejected the advances as he didn't feel it would be beneficial for his pre-season routine with Everton.\n\nIn March 2013, Distin made his 402nd English Premier League appearance, the most of any foreign outfield player, but he never received any international call-ups. Despite this, Distin stated that he has no regrets over his career.\n\nIn May 2014, Distin humorously announced his international retirement on Twitter, calling his record of 0 caps for France a \"wonderful experience\".\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Doesn't include 2008 FA Community Shield appearance.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2158057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158057", "title": "Lynda Baron", "text": "Lynda Baron\n\nLilian Baron (born 24 March 1939), known professionally as Lynda Baron, is an English actress and comedian, best known for playing Nurse Gladys Emmanuel in the BBC comedy series \"Open All Hours\" (1976–1985) and Auntie Mabel in the award-winning children's series Come Outside (1993-1997). In later years she starred again as Nurse Gladys in the sequel, \"Still Open All Hours\" (2013–2016). In 2006, she played Linda Clarke in \"EastEnders\", before returning from 2008 to 2009 and again in 2016.\n\nBaron was born in Urmston, Lancashire. She was originally trained as a dancer at the Royal Academy of Dance. Early in her career, she appeared in repertory theatre and several West End venues. \n\nBaron's early television roles included small parts in \"Crossroads\" (1964), \"Up Pompeii\" (1970), \"Z-Cars\" (1971), and the British horror film \"Hands of the Ripper\" (1971). Baron appeared on television in \"BBC-3\" (1965), a series in the vein of \"That Was The Week That Was\", involving some of the same performers. She also alternated with Annie Ross as the resident singer on \"Not So Much a Programme, More a Way of Life\" (1965). Baron has taken part in the BBC science fiction series \"Doctor Who\" three times. She was heard as a singer in the 1966 serial \"The Gunfighters\". She appeared in front of the cameras as Captain Wrack in the 1983 serial \"Enlightenment\", and again in 2011 in \"Closing Time\" as Val.\n\nBaron is best known playing Nurse Gladys Emmanuel in the popular BBC sitcom \"Open All Hours\" with Ronnie Barker and David Jason which ran for four series in 1976, 1981 to 1982 and in 1985, and was subsequently voted eighth in Britain's Best Sitcom in 2004.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, Baron co-starred in the ITV sitcom \"Oh No, It's Selwyn Froggitt!\" and the forgotten BBC sitcom \"A Roof Over My Head\". She had a small part in \"Minder\", and played the middle-aged temptress Lily Bless'er in the \"Last of the Summer Wine\" episode \"Getting Sam Home\" \n. In 1986, she acted in a party political broadcast for the SDP–Liberal Alliance. Baron also appeared in the 1987 Christmas special of \"The Two Ronnies\". Baron then went on to appear in the BBC Two comedy series \"KYTV\".\n\nIn the 1990s, Baron played Auntie Pat in five episodes of the ITV sitcom \"The Upper Hand\" (1992–93). Baron then went on to star in the children's television series \"Come Outside\" (1993–97) playing Auntie Mabel, an everyday woman living in a bungalow, set in Denham flying round on various adventures in her spotted aeroplane with her dog Pippin. \n\nIn 1997, Baron played Renee Turnbull in \"Coronation Street\" and took guest roles in \"Dinnerladies\" (1998), \"The Mrs Bradley Mysteries\" (1998), \"Sunburn\" (1999), \"Nancherrow\" (1999) and \"Goodnight Sweetheart\" (1999).\n\nBaron continued to work regularly on television and the stage in the 2000s, with credits including \"Fat Friends\" (2000–2005), \"The Bill\" (2000), \"Doctors\" (2000, 2006, 2010, 2011 and 2014), \"Peak Practice\" (2001), \"Holby City\" (2002 and 2006), \"Down to Earth\" (2005), \"Rome\" (2005) and \"Casualty\" (2009). \n\nBaron briefly appeared in the BBC One soap opera \"EastEnders\" in 2006 as Linda Clarke, the mother of Jane Beale. In September 2008, it was announced that Baron would be returning to \"EastEnders\". She appeared regularly in the series from November 2008 to February 2009. On 8 April 2016, it was announced that Baron would return to the soap once again alongside John Partridge. She appeared on screen in May and June 2016. \n\nIn August 2010, Baron appeared in an episode of \"Agatha Christie's Marple\" on ITV. In September 2010, Baron appeared in a one-off television drama \"The Road to Coronation Street\" on BBC Four, a programme looking back at the early days of the British television soap opera \"Coronation Street\". Baron portrayed actress Violet Carson who played Ena Sharples in the soap. Baron was nominated for the 2011 British Academy Television Award for Best Supporting Actress for this role.\n\nOn 26 December 2013, Baron reprised her role in a special one-off episode of \"Open All Hours\" on BBC One, entitled \"Still Open All Hours\". It was watched by 12.23 million viewers, almost a 40% share in audience figures on Boxing Day. The following day, Baron took part in \"Open All Hours: A Celebration\", a programme looking back on the sitcom. Following the success of the Christmas episode, the cast made a full series, which began on 26 December 2014. A second series started in December 2015. A third series began in December 2016, but Baron was unable to return because of other commitments. Baron did not appear in the fourth series. It is believed that she has quit the show.\n\nIn December 2016 Baron made a guest appearance in a Christmas special of \"Citizen Khan\" and in January 2017 she appeared in an episode of \"Father Brown\".\n\nBaron's film appearances include roles in \"The Small World of Sammy Lee\" (1963), \"Hot Millions\" (1968), \"Mrs. Brown You've Got a Lovely Daughter\" (1968), \"Can Heironymus Merkin Ever Forget Mercy Humppe and Find True Happiness?\" (1969), \"Tiffany Jones\" (1973), and the Hammer film \"Hands of the Ripper\" (1971) as an ill-fated prostitute. She also appeared in the Barbra Streisand film \"Yentl\" (1983), \"Carry On Columbus\" (1992), \"Colour Me Kubrick\" (2005) and \"Scoop\" (2006) directed by Woody Allen.\n\nIn 1987, Baron starred in the London production of the musical \"Follies\" at the Shaftesbury Theatre. In 2007, she starred with Orlando Bloom and Tim Healy in a stage version of \"In Celebration\". In May and June 2009, she appeared at the Menier Chocolate Factory in a production of \"Rookery Nook\" by Ben Travers.\n\nFrom October 2010 to February 2011, Baron starred with Maureen Lipman and Roy Hudd in a West End production of \"When We Are Married\" by J.B. Priestley. In March 2013, she appeared in a production of D.H. Lawrence's play \"The Daughter-in-Law\" at the Sheffield Crucible. She appeared at the Minerva Theatre, Chichester from April to May 2014 in \"Stevie\" by Hugh Whitemore, alongside Zoe Wanamaker and Chris Larkin. Baron again appeared in the play from March to April 2015 at the Hampstead Theatre.\n\nBaron's other theatre credits include \"An Inspector Calls\", \"Stepping Out\", \"Entertaining Mr Sloane\", and \"The Full Monty\".\n\nIn 1995, Baron voiced the character of Nanny Ogg in the BBC Radio 4 adaptation of the \"Discworld\" novel \"Wyrd Sisters\". In April 2012, Richard Kates released an album entitled \"There's Something About You\", which featured Baron performing the track \"A Hard Man is Good to Find\". On 11 May 2012, Baron appeared in the \"Afternoon Play\" on BBC Radio 4, \"Mrs Lowry and Son\", playing the mother of artist LS Lowry.\n\nIn 1966, Baron married John M. Lee. They have two children, Sarah and Morgan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2158058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158058", "title": "Harold Fisher (politician)", "text": "Harold Fisher (politician)\n\nHarold Fisher, (November 1, 1877 – 1928) was mayor of Ottawa from 1917–1920 and a Liberal MPP from 1923–1926.\n\nHe grew up in Toronto where he attended the Jarvis Collegiate Institute, the University of Toronto, and then got his law degree from Osgoode Hall. He was called to the Ontario bar in 1902. He moved to Ottawa in 1903 and became one of that city's most important lawyers. He was elected as an Alderman in 1913 and became mayor in 1917. As mayor his most important accomplishment was founding the Ottawa Civic hospital. Built in the still largely agricultural area west of the city at a cost of some two million dollars, the hospital project was controversial, but Fisher felt it was important after the city had been devastated by the Spanish flu. In 1920, he became a King's Counsel. In 1923, he was elected to the provincial legislature representing the riding of Ottawa West and was made opposition finance critic with the Liberals. He served on the board of the Civic Hospital from 1924 until his death.\n\nHe died of pneumonia in 1928.\n\nOttawa's Fisher Park High School and Fisher Avenue are both named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2158065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158065", "title": "Eastern Daily Press", "text": "Eastern Daily Press\n\nThe Eastern Daily Press (EDP) is a regional newspaper covering Norfolk, and northern parts of Suffolk and eastern Cambridgeshire, and is published daily in Norwich, UK.\n\nFounded in 1870 as a broadsheet called the Eastern Counties Daily Press, it changed its name to the \"Eastern Daily Press\" in 1872. It moved to the compact (tabloid) format in the mid-1990s. The paper is now owned and published by Archant, formerly known as Eastern Counties Newspapers Group. \nIt aims to represent the interests of the local population in the region in a non-partisan way with its mission statement being to 'champion a fair deal for the future prosperity of the region'. Despite its commitment to regional issues, the EDP covers national (and international) news and sport with the aim of being a substitute for a national paper. \n\nThe paper also produces a sister edition, the \"Norwich Evening News\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2158067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158067", "title": "Highland Lakes", "text": "Highland Lakes\n\nHighland Lakes may refer to a place in the United States:\n"}
{"id": "2158074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158074", "title": "Daniel Purcell", "text": "Daniel Purcell\n\nDaniel Purcell (c. 1664 – buried 26 November 1717) was an English Baroque composer, the younger brother or cousin of Henry Purcell.\n\nLike Henry Purcell before him, Daniel Purcell joined the choir of the Chapel Royal at about the age of 14. In his mid-twenties he was appointed organist of Magdalen College, Oxford where he began to compose. In 1695 he moved to London to compose for the theatre providing incidental music for more than 40 plays. One of his first engagements was to complete the concluding Masque for Act V of the semi-opera \"The Indian Queen\", the preceding music for which had been written by Henry Purcell during the early months of 1695. It is unclear if Daniel Purcell had been engaged because of pressure to complete the score in time for the first performance or as a result of Henry Purcell's failing health and subsequent death. The performance history of the piece is uncertain, and the first performance may have gone ahead without Daniel Purcell's contribution.\n\nIn 1701, he came third in a competition for the best musical setting of William Congreve's masque, \"The Judgment of Paris\". His instrumental compositions published c.1710 included sets of sonatas and trio sonatas for recorder in addition to works for violin. In 1713, at the age of 49 he was appointed organist of St Andrew's, Holborn, a position he held until his death. He was subsequently buried in St Andrew's Church where he had worked.\n\nThe most frequently performed of his compositions are probably the \"Magnificat\" and \"Nunc dimittis\" in E minor, liturgical pieces written for use in the Church of England service of Evensong.\n\n"}
{"id": "2158081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158081", "title": "List of television stations in Tennessee", "text": "List of television stations in Tennessee\n\nThis is a list of broadcast television stations serving cities in the U.S. state of Tennessee.\n\nVC refers to the station's PSIP virtual channel. RF refers to the station's physical RF channel.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2158086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158086", "title": "Norwich Evening News", "text": "Norwich Evening News\n\nThe Norwich Evening News is a daily local newspaper published in Norwich, Norfolk, England. It covers the city and the surrounding suburbs, and is published by Archant. It is the best-selling newspaper in Norwich. As of 28 February 2011 the paper is printed for 6am, as the stories are written the day before.\n\nThe \"Norwich Evening News\" is sister paper to the \"Eastern Daily Press\", and has a cover price of 50p.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2158087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158087", "title": "Tapa cloth", "text": "Tapa cloth\n\nTapa cloth (or simply \"tapa\") is a barkcloth made in the islands of the Pacific Ocean, primarily in Tonga, Samoa and Fiji, but as far afield as Niue, Cook Islands, Futuna, Solomon Islands, Java, New Zealand, Vanuatu, Papua New Guinea and Hawaii (where it is called \"kapa\"). In French Polynesia it has nearly disappeared, except for some villages in the Marquesas.\n\n \nThe cloth is known by a number of local names although the term tapa is international and understood throughout the islands that use the cloth. The word tapa is from Tahiti and the Cook Islands, where Captain Cook was the first European to collect it and introduce it to the rest of the world. In Tonga, tapa is known as ngatu, and here it is of great social importance to the islanders, often being given as gifts. In Samoa, the same cloth is called siapo, and in Niue it is hiapo. In Hawaii, it is known as kapa. In Rotuma, a Polynesian island in the Fiji group, it is called ‘uha and in other Fiji islands it is called masi. In the Pitcairn islands it was called ahu. It is also known as tapia.\n\nAll these words give some clue to the origin. \"Masi\" could mean the (bark of the) dye-fig \"(Ficus tinctoria)\", endemic to Oceania, and probably the one originally used to make tapa. Somewhere in history, during the voyages of migration the \"hiapo\" or \"siapo\" was introduced from Southeast Asia, the paper mulberry tree (\"Broussonetia papyrifera\"). The bark of this tree is much better to use, and put the use of the dye-fig into oblivion. Only its name remained in Fiji. \"Tapa\" finally has the meaning of border or strip. It seems likely that before the glueing process became common to make large sheets (see below) only narrow strips were produced.\n\nTapa can be decorated by rubbing, stamping, stencilling, smoking (Fiji: \"masi Kuvui\") or dyeing. The patterns of Tongan, Samoan, and Fijian tapa usually form a grid of squares, each of which contains geometric patterns with repeated motifs such as fish and plants, for example four stylised leaves forming a diagonal cross. Traditional dyes are usually black and rust-brown, although other colours are known.\n\nIn former times the cloth was primarily used for clothing, but now cotton and other textiles have replaced it. The major problem with tapa clothing is that the tissue loses its strength when wet and falls apart. However, it was better than grass-skirts, which usually are either heavier and harder or easily blown apart, but on the low coral atolls where the mulberry does not grow, people had no choice. It is also labour-intensive to manufacture. Tapa cloth was made by both the men and women in ancient times. An example is the Hawaiian men, who also made their own weapons.\n\nNowadays tapa is often worn on formal occasions such as weddings. Another use is as a blanket at night or for room dividers. It is highly prized for its decorative value and is often found hung on walls as decoration. In Tonga a family is considered poor, no matter how much money they have, if they do not have any tapa in stock at home to donate at life events like marriages, funerals and so forth. If the tapa was donated to them by a chief or even the royal family, it is more valuable. It has been used in ceremonial masks in Papua New Guinea and the Cook Islands (Mangian masks). It was used to wrap sacred objects, e.g., \"God staffs\" in the Cook Islands.There are also many more uses of tapa which are not mentioned here.\n\nThe following describes the fabrication of Tapa cloth in Tonga, where it is part of daily life. There may be small or large differences for other locations.\n\nIn Tonga \"hiapo\" is the name given to the paper mulberry tree. People have bunches of them growing in a corner of their plantations. They are cut and brought home where the first task is to strip the bark from the trees. The strips are about hand wide and person long. The wood left over is named \"mokofute\". The bark consists of two layers; the outer bark is scraped or split off from the inner bark. This work is called \"haalo\". The outer bark is discarded; the inner bark, named \"tutu\" or \"loututu\", is left over. It is dried in the sun before being soaked.\nAfter this, the bark is beaten on a wooden \"tutua\" anvil using wooden mallets called \"ike\". In the beating the bark is made thinner and spread out to a width of about 25 cm. This phase of the work is called \"tutu\" (or \"tutua\"). The mallets are flat on one side and have coarse and fine grooves on the other sides. First the coarse sides are used and, towards the end of the work, the flat side (\"tā-tua\"). The continuous \"thonk\" beats of the tapa mallet is a normal sound in Tongan villages. If several women work together they can make a concert out of it. In that case there might be one who \"tukipotu\", beats the end of the \"tutua\" to set the rhythm.\n\nWhen the strips are thin enough, several are taken and beaten together into a large sheet. Some starch from the \"kumala\", or \"manioke\" may be rubbed on places which are unwilling to stick. This part of the work is called \"opoopo\", the glue is called \"tou\" and the resulting sheet of tapa is called \"fetaaki\". It then consists of two layers of strips in perpendicular direction, the upper one called \"lauolunga\" and the lower one \"laulalo\". A knife or sharp shell named \"mutu\" is used to trim the edges, and the pieces fallen off in this process are called \"papanaki\". When the white fetaaki is smoked brown, it is called \"sala\".\n\nOften the women of a whole village work together on a huge sheet of tapa. A donation is made to the church or their chief at an important occasion. Such sheets are about 3 m wide and 15, or 30, or sometimes even 60 m long. The 15 meter pieces are called \"launima\" (meaning five-sheet, because the sheet is five squares), and the 30 m pieces are called \"lautefuhi\".\n\nFriedrich Ratzel in \"The History of Mankind\" described, in 1896, the fabrication of tapa as follows:\n\n\"A circular cut is made with a shell in the bark above the root of the tree; the tree is broken off, and in a few days, when the stem is half-dry, the bark and bast are separated from it. The bast is then cleaned and macerated in water, after which it is beaten with the ribbed club on a wooden block. This beating enlivens a village in Tonga as threshing does in Europe. In half an hour the piece will have changed in shape from a strip almost to a square. The edges are snipped with shells, and a large number of the pieces are drawn separately over a semi-cylindrical wooden stamp, on which the pattern, worked in coco-fibre, is stretched and smeared with a fluid at once adhesive and colouring. On each a second and third layer is placed; and the piece, three layers thick, is coloured more strongly in the parts which are thrown into relief by the inequalities of the bed. Others are annexed to it both at the side and the end, until pieces a yard wide, and 20 to 25 yards long, are produced.\n\nThe \"fetaaki\" is almost always painted. It then becomes \"ngatu\", the Tongan word for the final product. The painting is done over the whole length, but only the central 2.5 metre in the width direction. On both sides there is an unpainted border of about 20 cm wide, which is called the \"tapa\" (in Tonga). To paint it, the sheets are put over a huge wooden drum covered with stencils or \"kupesi\" (\"upeti\" in Samoa). These stencils are made from coconut front midribs (or any other sticks of a few millimeter thick) and made in the pattern which will be used. There are a handful of standard \"kupesi\" designs, like the 'pine road' (the road from the palace to the royal cemetery), or the 'shield of Tonga', or the 'lion' (the king), or the 'dove' (the king as ruler), and more abstract figures like the 'Manulua' (two birds).\nThe tapa sheet is put over the drum and the women rub with force a dabber with some brown paint (made from the \"koka\" tree \"(Bischofia javanica))\" over the sheet. This work is called \"tatai\". Where they rub over a rib of the \"kupesi\" more paint will stick to that position while very little will stick elsewhere. In this way the basic pattern is put on the sheet. Once a part is done, they lift up the sheet and proceed to the next strip and so forth. Only when the whole sheet has been preprocessed, it will be spread out on the ground and with a brush (made from \"Pandanus\" seeds). The women will accentuate the faintly visible marks with some more generous paint, this time made from the \"tongo\", the mangrove \"(Rhizophora mangle)\". Both \"koka\" and \"tongo\" paint are always brown, but the latter is much darker. Black is not used in Tonga, although it is characteristic for Fiji.\n\nIt is customary that during the paint process lines are drawn on the \"ngatu\" along the width every 45 cm or more. The \"kupesi\" too are made to the size that they will fit in the divisions thus made. Such a division is known as \"langanga\" and they are numbered (on the blank \"tapa\") from one to as many as needed for the whole length. When a smaller piece of ngatu is needed, the sheet is cut along a \"langanga\" division. A 4 to 6 \"langanga\" piece is called \"folaosi\". An 8-piece is \"fātuua\", while a 10 \"langanga\" piece of \"ngatu\" is known as \"toka hongofulu\". Less common are the double \"fātuua\", named \"fātufā\" or double of that again, the \"fātuvalu\".\n\nThese are the traditional \"ngatu\", as evidenced by the extensive vocabulary used (still many more terms exist). Nowadays for the tourist trade other sizes and designs can be made as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2158095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158095", "title": "Ted Watts", "text": "Ted Watts\n\nTed W. Watts (born May 29, 1958 in Tarpon Springs, Florida) is a former American football player.\n\nHe was the cornerback of the Oakland/Los Angeles Raiders, New York Giants, and the San Diego Chargers. Watts played six years in the NFL. Collegiately, he played for the Texas Tech Red Raiders.\n"}
{"id": "2158101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158101", "title": "Alexander Macomb (general)", "text": "Alexander Macomb (general)\n\nAlexander Macomb (April 3, 1782 – June 25, 1841) was the Commanding General of the United States Army from May 29, 1828, until his death on June 25, 1841. Macomb was the field commander at the Battle of Plattsburgh during the War of 1812 and, after the stunning victory, was lauded with praise and styled \"The Hero of Plattsburgh\" by some of the American press. He was promoted to Major General for his conduct, receiving both the Thanks of Congress and a Congressional Gold Medal.\n\nBorn at British-held Detroit in 1782, Macomb was the son of Alexander Macomb, a merchant and fur trader from upstate New York, and Mary Catherine Navarre, she of ethnic French descent.\n\nHe moved with his parents to New York City, where his father gained wealth as a land speculator, particularly in the millions of acres of New York land released by the federal government for sale after the Iroquois nations had been largely forced from the state into exile in Ontario following British defeat in the American Revolutionary War. The son received a classical education at Newark Academy in New Jersey.\n\nIn 1798, at the age of 16, Macomb joined a New York militia company. In January 1799, with the recommendation of Alexander Hamilton, he was commissioned a Cornet in the Regular Army during the French emergency. In March he was promoted to second lieutenant, and he was honorably discharged in June 1800.\n\nIn February 1801, he was commissioned a second lieutenant, 2d Infantry, serving as secretary to a commission that treated with the Indians of the Southeast.\n\nHe was commissioned a first lieutenant in the Army Corps of Engineers, which was established in 1802 at West Point to constitute a military academy. He was one of the first officers to receive formal training there.\n\nFor five years, Macomb directed construction of coastal fortifications in the Carolinas and Georgia. He also established fortifications at Fort Gratiot, Michigan, Chicago, Mackinaw, Prairie du Chien, St. Peter's, and St. Mary's in what was considered the Northwest area - Michigan and Illinois.\n\nAt the beginning of the War of 1812, in July 1812 Macomb was promoted at the age of 30 to colonel of the newly organised 3rd Artillery Regiment.\n\nHe won acclaim during the War of 1812 as brigadier general in command of the Right Division of the Northern Army, responsible for defending the frontier of northern New York. At the Battle of Plattsburgh on September 11, 1814, with only 1,500 regular troops and some detachments of militia, he was opposed by a British force of 10,531 men under Lieutenant General Sir George Prevost. Macomb's heavily outnumbered troops fell back before the British columns in a series of encounters as Prevost advanced towards the American defensive works. \n\nIn the weeks leading up to the battle, Macomb, knowing full well he would be greatly outnumbered, worked with his men to move trees and create fake roads; in order to obscure the genuine roads and lead the British into dead-end traps far from the three nearby American forts (a maneuver Macomb called \"abattis\"). The British attack was diffused by these efforts. The long narrow lines of marching soldiers were unable to easily stop and about-face. They became entangled in the narrow false road maze, where they became targets for American ambush. \n\nThe British were about to launch an assault on the American defenses when the news came through of the defeat of the British naval squadron on Lake Champlain. Prevost needed the British Lake Champlain squadron to supply his planned advance into Vermont. Without it, he had no choice but to abandon theexpedition. The British invaders returned to Canada. \n\nMacomb was showered with praise and styled \"the Hero of Plattsburgh\" by some in the American press. He was promoted to major general for his conduct at this battle, and received the formal thanks of Congress and a Congressional Gold Medal.\n\nWhen Major General Jacob Brown, the Army's commanding general, died in February 1828, Macomb was the senior brigadier general on the Army register, although, as the Army's chief of engineers, he was paid only at the rank of a colonel. President John Quincy Adams promoted him to commanding general of the Army with the rank of major general. The Army's two serving brigadier generals — Winfield Scott and Edmund P. Gaines — had been vying for the position. Their quarrels over seniority had scandalized the Army and Adams bypassed them to offer the post to Macomb.\n\nThe general's last active service in a theater of war was in the Seminole War in Florida, in 1835.\n\nMacomb's tenure as Commanding General was marked by \"continuing uncertainty about the responsibilities and authority of his position. To secure his seniority over Scott and Gaines, both two-star brevet major generals, Macomb added a provision in the 1834 regulations that 'the insignia of the major general commanding in chief should be three stars.' In the same document he sought to define his relationship to the Secretary of War and establish his primacy over the bureau chiefs, including his successor as Chief of Engineers. This was easier said than done. Most issues were not fully resolved until early the next century.\"\n\nHe advocated doubling Army strength, increasing enlisted pay, providing relief for some widows and orphans, and regularizing the officer retirement and replacement system. In 1840 the Army Corps of Engineers adopted the castle uniform insignia and first described the Corps of Engineers' distinctive \"Essayons\" button (Motto in French, meaning: \"Let us try\").\n\nMacomb was succeeded by Major General Winfield Scott, who had worked \"hard at mending fences in the intervening 13 years...\" within the Army.\n\nIn 1809, Macomb was the author of a seminal book (republished in 2006) on martial law and the conduct of courts-martial. It was the first book written on American procedures. During this period he was serving as a judge-advocate general (JAG) in the Army. He published a revised, updated book solely on courts martial in 1809. \n\nHe also wrote a play on the siege of Detroit by Ottawa chief Pontiac. It features Macomb's maternal grandfather, Robert Navarre, who helped defend the settlement. \"See\" Published Works and Further Reading, \"infra\". \n\nIn addition, Macomb is recognized as an artist. His painting \"Detroit as Seen from the Canadian Shore in 1821,\" a watercolor and pencil work, is held by the Detroit Institute of Arts.\n\nMacomb was the first of five Commanding Generals (Chiefs of Staff after the 1903 reorganization) who had held Engineer commissions early in their careers. All had transferred to other branches before being appointed to this top position. The others were George B. McClellan, Henry W. Halleck, Douglas MacArthur, and Maxwell D. Taylor.\n\nFollowing the Battle of Plattsburgh and the end of the War of 1812, a Congressional Gold Medal honoring Alexander Macomb and his men was struck by Act of Congress (3 Stat. 247), to wit:\n\nObverse: MAJOR GENERAL ALEXANDER MACOMB. Bust of Gen. Macomb, in uniform, facing the right FÜRST. F(\"ecit\"). indicates the engraver Moritz Fuerst (1782–1840), who designed several medals of 1812 heroes for the Philadelphia mint. The bust of Macomb found on the Congressional Medal, however, is reminiscent of the 1809 portrait of Macomb by Saint-Mémin (1770–1852), in which Macomb is wearing the undressed coat of blue with black velvet collar and cuffs typical of an Engineering officer.\n\nReverse: RESOLUTION OF CONGRESS NOVEMBER 3. 1814. The American army repulsing the British troops, who are striving to cross the Saranac river. To the left, Plattsburgh in flames; to the right, naval battle on Lake Champlain; in the distance, Cumberland Head. Exergue: BATTLE OF PLATTSBURGH September 11. 1814. FÜRST. F(\"ecit\").\n\nThis was one of 27 Gold Medals authorized by Congress arising from the War of 1812.\n\nAlexander Macomb is recognized by a Michigan Historical Marker installed at the corner of Gratiot Avenue and Macomb Street in Mount Clemens, Michigan, the county seat of Macomb County, named for him. It is Registered Site S0418, erected in 1974. It states:\n\nHe is memorialized by several statues. One was sculpted by Adolph Alexander Weinman and erected in 1906 in downtown Detroit, Michigan. This statue was made from melted down cannons, and was a notable and monumental task. Another is in downtown Mount Clemens, Michigan, in front of the Circuit Court building at 40 N. Gratiot Avenue. Several others exist.\n\nMacomb died while in office at Washington, D.C. He was originally buried at the Presbyterian Burying Ground, but in 1850 his remains were disinterred and he was reburied at Congressional Cemetery. \n\nHis remains, and those of his wife, Catherine, were disinterred again in June 2008 so that the brick-lined burial vault beneath their 6-ton, 13-foot-tall marble monument could be repaired to prevent its impending collapse. During the month it took to make the necessary repairs, the couple's remains were held at the Smithsonian; they were viewed by several of the general's descendants, including his great-great-great granddaughter. After the $24,000 repairs were completed by the Department of Veterans Affairs, their remains were re-interred on July 17, 2008. The monument to Alexander Macomb is \"one of the most unusual in the nation.\"\n\nDuring the 1820s, Macomb was a member of the Columbian Institute for the Promotion of Arts and Sciences, who counted among their members former presidents Andrew Jackson and John Quincy Adams and many prominent men of the day, including well-known representatives of the military, government service, medical and other professions.\n\nHis youngest son was Commodore William H. Macomb.\n\nIn addition to the ship, Alexander Macomb has been the source for the name of a number of locations, communities, and institutions around the country, including:\n\nAn elementary school named after him in Detroit opened in 1929 and closed in 2009.\n\n\nMacomb's effective dates of rank were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2158107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158107", "title": "Stonehaugh", "text": "Stonehaugh\n\nStonehaugh is a small settlement in Northumberland about west of Wark on Tyne and 4 Roman miles (6 km) north of Hadrian's Wall. It was purpose-built for housing forestry workers in the 1950s. Mechanisation has reduced the necessity for such concentrated manpower, so the modern population is more diverse. It is located at the edge of the Wark Forest, and the National Cycle Route 68 (the Pennine Cycleway) passes through it. It has a spectacular scenic views and a local artist's totem poles grace the local picnic area.\n\nStonehaugh is in the parliamentary constituency of Hexham, Guy Opperman of the Conservative Party is the Member of Parliament.\n\nPrior to Brexit, for the European Parliament its residents voted to elect MEP's for the North East England constituency.\n\nFor Local Government purposes it belongs to Northumberland County Council a unitary authority.\n"}
{"id": "2158110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158110", "title": "Shirley Knight", "text": "Shirley Knight\n\nShirley Knight Hopkins (July 5, 1936 – April 22, 2020) was an American actress who appeared in more than 50 feature films, television films, television series, and Broadway and Off-Broadway productions in her career, playing leading and character roles. She was a member of the Actors Studio.\n\nKnight was nominated twice for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress: for \"The Dark at the Top of the Stairs\" (1960) and \"Sweet Bird of Youth\" (1962). In the 1960s, she had leading roles in a number of Hollywood films such as \"The Couch\" (1962), \"House of Women\" (1962), \"The Group\" (1966), \"The Counterfeit Killer\" (1968), and \"The Rain People\" (1969). She received the Volpi Cup for Best Actress for her role in the British film \"Dutchman\" (1966).\n\nIn 1976, Knight won a Tony Award for her performance in \"Kennedy's Children\", a play by Robert Patrick. In later years, she played supporting roles in many films, including \"Endless Love\" (1981), \"As Good as It Gets\" (1997), \"Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood\" (2002), and \"Grandma's Boy\" (2006). For her performances on television, Knight was nominated eight times for a Primetime Emmy Award (winning three), and she received a Golden Globe Award.\n\nKnight was born in Goessel, Kansas, the daughter of Virginia (née Webster; 1916-1977) and Noel Johnson Knight (1913-1985), an oil company executive. She had a brother and a sister. She spent her young life in Mitchell, Kansas, and later lived in Lyons, Kansas, where she graduated from high school. She began studying to be an opera singer at age 11.\n\nAt the age of 14, she wrote a short story that was published in a national magazine. Knight later attended Phillips University and Wichita State University. After studying at the Pasadena Theatre School she began her film career in 1959. She then went to New York and began her theatre career. She trained in acting with Jeff Corey, Erwin Piscator, Lee Strasberg, and Uta Hagen at HB Studio.\n\nKnight's feature films include \"The Group\" (1966), \"The Dutchman\" (1967), \"Petulia\" (1968), \"The Rain People\" (1969), \"Juggernaut\" (1974), \"As Good as It Gets\" (1997), and \"Elevator\" (2011), in which she plays one of several people trapped in a Wall Street elevator with a bomber.\n\nKnight was cast in 1958 and 1959 as Mrs. Newcomb in 20 of the 29 episodes of the television series \"Buckskin\", with Tom Nolan, Sally Brophy, and Mike Road. She became a Warner Brothers Television contract star who while on breaks filming movies appeared in television series such as \"Maverick\", \"Bourbon Street Beat\", \"Sugarfoot\", \"Cheyenne\", and \"The Roaring 20s\".\n\nA life member of The Actors Studio, Knight's stage credits include \"Three Sisters\" (1964), \"We Have Always Lived in the Castle\" (1966), \"Kennedy's Children\" (1975), which earned her the Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Play, and \"A Lovely Sunday for Creve Coeur\" (1979).\n\nShe was nominated for the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Actress in a Play twice, for \"Landscape of the Body\" and \"The Young Man from Atlanta\", for which she received another Tony nomination. She also appeared in \"Come Back, Come Back, Wherever You Are\", (2009) an original play by Arthur Laurents.\n\nHer television credits include \"\", \"The Eleventh Hour\", \"The Outer Limits\" (\"The Man Who Was Never Born\"), \"The Reporter\", \"The Fugitive\", \"The Invaders\", \"The Virginian\", \"Murder, She Wrote\", \"Thirtysomething\", \"Law & Order\", \"L.A. Law\", \"\", \"Maggie Winters\", \"ER\", \"House M.D.\", \"Crossing Jordan\", \"Cold Case\", and \"Hot in Cleveland\", among others. Knight also appeared in \"Barnaby Jones\" in the episode titled \"Fantasy of Fear\" (02/25/1975).\n\nShe appeared in various television movies, including \"Playing For Time\" and \"\". For the latter, she won both the Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie and the Golden Globe Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Series, Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for Television. Her guest performance in \"thirtysomething\" earned her a 1988 Emmy for Best Guest Performer in a Drama Series. She won an Emmy in 1995 for her guest performance in the \"NYPD Blue\" episode \"Large Mouth Bass\".\n\nShe appeared in the first segment of \"If These Walls Could Talk\". She also had a recurring role on \"Desperate Housewives\".\n\nKnight was married to American actor and producer Gene Persson from 1959 until their divorce in 1969. They had one child, actress Kaitlin Hopkins (born February 1, 1964).\n\nHer second marriage was to English writer John Hopkins from 1969 until his death in 1998. She and Hopkins raised her daughter with Persson together. They had one child, elementary school teacher Sophie C. Hopkins.\n\nKnight died of natural causes on April 22, 2020 at her daughter Kaitlin Hopkins' home in San Marcos, Texas. She was 83.\n\n"}
{"id": "2158130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158130", "title": "KUAM", "text": "KUAM\n\nKUAM may refer to:\n\n"}
