{"id": "2095829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095829", "title": "Sonia Sotomayor", "text": "Sonia Sotomayor\n\nSonia Maria Sotomayor (; born June 25, 1954) is an American lawyer and jurist who serves as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. She was appointed by President Barack Obama in May 2009 and confirmed in August of the same year. She was the first Hispanic and Latina Justice.\n\nSotomayor was born in The Bronx, New York City, to Puerto Rican-born parents. Her father died when she was nine, and she was subsequently raised by her mother. Sotomayor graduated \"summa cum laude\" from Princeton University in 1976 and received her Juris Doctor from Yale Law School in 1979, where she was an editor at the \"Yale Law Journal\". She worked as an assistant district attorney in New York for four-and-a-half years before entering private practice in 1984. She played an active role on the boards of directors for the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, the State of New York Mortgage Agency, and the New York City Campaign Finance Board.\n\nSotomayor was nominated to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York by President George H. W. Bush in 1991; confirmation followed in 1992. In 1997, she was nominated by President Bill Clinton to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Her nomination was slowed by the Republican majority in the United States Senate, but she was eventually confirmed in 1998. On the Second Circuit, Sotomayor heard appeals in more than 3,000 cases and wrote about 380 opinions. Sotomayor has taught at the New York University School of Law and Columbia Law School.\n\nIn May 2009, President Barack Obama nominated Sotomayor to the Supreme Court following the retirement of Justice David Souter. Her nomination was confirmed by the Senate in August 2009 by a vote of 68–31. While on the court, Sotomayor has supported the informal liberal bloc of justices when they divide along the commonly perceived ideological lines. During her tenure on the Supreme Court, Sotomayor has been identified with concern for the rights of defendants, calls for reform of the criminal justice system, and making impassioned dissents on issues of race, gender and ethnic identity, including \"Schuette v. BAMN\", \"Utah v. Strieff\", and \"Trump v. Hawaii\".\n\nSotomayor was born in the New York City borough of The Bronx. Her father was Juan Sotomayor (born c. 1921), from the area of Santurce, San Juan, Puerto Rico, and her mother was Celina Báez (born 1927), an orphan from the neighborhood of Santa Rosa in Lajas, a rural area on Puerto Rico's southwest coast.\n\nThe two left Puerto Rico separately, met, and married during World War II after Celina served in the Women's Army Corps. Juan Sotomayor had a third-grade education, did not speak English, and worked as a tool and die worker; Celina Baez worked as a telephone operator and then a practical nurse. Sonia's younger brother, Juan Sotomayor (born c. 1957), later became a physician and university professor in the Syracuse, New York, area.\n\nSotomayor was raised a Catholic and grew up in Puerto Rican communities in the South Bronx and East Bronx; she self-identifies as a \"Nuyorican\". The family lived in a South Bronx tenement before moving in 1957 to the well-maintained, racially and ethnically mixed, working-class Bronxdale Houses housing project in Soundview (which has over time been thought as part of both the East Bronx and South Bronx). Her relative proximity to Yankee Stadium led to her becoming a lifelong fan of the New York Yankees. The extended family got together frequently and regularly visited Puerto Rico during summers.\n\nSonia grew up with an alcoholic father and a mother who was emotionally distant; she felt closest to her grandmother, who she later said gave her a source of \"protection and purpose\".\nSonia was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes at age seven, and began taking daily insulin injections. Her father died of heart problems at age 42, when she was nine years old. After this, she became fluent in English. Sotomayor has said that she was first inspired by the strong-willed Nancy Drew book character, and then after her diabetes diagnosis led doctors to suggest a different career from detective, she was inspired to go into a legal career and become a judge by watching the \"Perry Mason\" television series. She reflected in 1998: \"I was going to college and I was going to become an attorney, and I knew that when I was ten. Ten. That's no jest.\"\n\nCelina Sotomayor put great stress on the value of education; she bought the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" for her children, something unusual in the housing projects. Despite the distance between the two, which became greater after her father's death and which was not fully reconciled until decades later, Sotomayor has credited her mother with being her \"life inspiration\". For grammar school, Sotomayor attended Blessed Sacrament School in Soundview, where she was valedictorian and had a near-perfect attendance record. Although underage, Sotomayor worked at a local retail store and a hospital. Sotomayor passed the entrance tests for and then attended Cardinal Spellman High School in the Bronx. At Cardinal Spellman, Sotomayor was on the forensics team and was elected to the student government. She graduated as valedictorian in 1972. Meanwhile, the Bronxdale Houses had fallen victim to increasing heroin use, crime, and the emergence of the Black Spades gang. In 1970, the family found refuge by moving to Co-op City in the Northeast Bronx.\nSotomayor entered Princeton University on a full scholarship, by her own later description gaining admission in part due to her achievements in high school and in part because affirmative action made up for her standardized test scores not being fully comparable to those of other applicants. She would later say that there are cultural biases built into such testing and praise affirmative action for fulfilling \"its purpose: to create the conditions whereby students from disadvantaged backgrounds could be brought to the starting line of a race many were unaware was even being run.\"\n\nShe would describe her time at Princeton as a life-changing experience. Initially, she felt like \"a visitor landing in an alien country\" as her exposure had been limited to the Bronx and Puerto Rico. Princeton had few women students and fewer Latinos (about 20). She was too intimidated to ask questions during her freshman year; her writing and vocabulary skills were weak, and she lacked knowledge in the classics. She put in long hours in the library and over summers, worked with a professor outside of class, and gained skills, knowledge, and confidence. She became a moderate student activist and co-chair of the \"Acción Puertorriqueña\" organization, which served as a social and political hub and sought more opportunities for Puerto Rican students. She worked in the admissions office, traveling to high schools and lobbying on behalf of her best prospects.\n\nAs an activist, Sotomayor focused on faculty hiring and curriculum, since Princeton did not have a single full-time Latino professor nor any class on Latin American studies. A meeting with university president William G. Bowen in her sophomore year saw no results, leading to Sotomayor's saying in a \"New York Times\" story at the time that \"Princeton is following a policy of benign neutrality and is not making substantive efforts to change.\" So, Acción Puertorriqueña filed a formal letter of complaint in April 1974 with the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, saying the school discriminated in its hiring and admission practices. Sotomayor wrote opinion pieces for the \"Daily Princetonian\" with the same theme. The university began to hire Latino faculty, and Sotomayor established an ongoing dialogue with Bowen. Sotomayor also successfully persuaded historian Peter Winn to create a seminar on Puerto Rican history and politics. Sotomayor joined the governance board of Princeton's Third World Center and served on the university's student–faculty Discipline Committee, which issued rulings on student infractions. She also ran an after-school program for local children and volunteered as an interpreter for Latino patients at Trenton Psychiatric Hospital.\nAcademically, Sotomayor stumbled her first year at Princeton, but later received almost all A's in her final two years of college. Sotomayor wrote her senior thesis at Princeton on Luis Muñoz Marín, the first democratically elected governor of Puerto Rico, and on the territory's struggles for economic and political self-determination. The 178-page work, \"La Historia Ciclica de Puerto Rico: The Impact of the Life of Luis Muñoz Marin on the Political and Economic History of Puerto Rico, 1930–1975\", won honorable mention for the Latin American Studies Thesis Prize. As a senior, Sotomayor won the Pyne Prize, the top award for undergraduates, which reflected both strong grades and extracurricular activities. In 1976, she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and graduated \"summa cum laude\" with an A.B. in history. She was influenced by the then-fashionable critical race theory, which would be reflected in her later speeches and writings.\n\nOn August 14, 1976, just after graduating from Princeton, Sotomayor married Kevin Edward Noonan, whom she had dated since high school, in a small chapel at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. She used the married name Sonia Sotomayor de Noonan. He became a biologist and a patent lawyer.\n\nSotomayor entered Yale Law School in the fall of 1976, once more on a scholarship. While she believes she again benefited from affirmative action to compensate for somewhat lower standardized test scores, a former dean of admissions at Yale has said that given her record at Princeton, it probably had little effect. At Yale she fit in well although she found there were again few Latino students. She was known as a hard worker but she was not considered among the star students in her class. Yale General Counsel and professor José A. Cabranes acted as an early mentor to her to successfully transition and work within \"the system\". She became an editor of the \"Yale Law Journal\" and was also managing editor of the student-run \"Yale Studies in World Public Order\" publication (later known as the \"Yale Journal of International Law\"). Sotomayor published a law review note on the effect of possible Puerto Rican statehood on the island's mineral and ocean rights. She was a semi-finalist in the Barristers Union mock trial competition. She was co-chair of a group for Latin, Asian, and Native American students, and her advocacy to hire more Hispanic faculty was renewed.\n\nFollowing her second year, she gained a job as a summer associate with the prominent New York law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison. By her own later evaluation, her performance there was lacking. She did not receive an offer for a full-time position, an experience that she later described as a \"kick in the teeth\" and one that would bother her for years. In her third year, she filed a formal complaint against the established Washington, D.C., law firm of Shaw, Pittman, Potts & Trowbridge for suggesting during a recruiting dinner that she was at Yale only via affirmative action. Sotomayor refused to be interviewed by the firm further and filed her complaint with a faculty–student tribunal, which ruled in her favor. Her action triggered a campus-wide debate, and news of the firm's subsequent December 1978 apology made the \"Washington Post\".\n\nIn 1979, Sotomayor was awarded a Juris Doctor from Yale Law School. She was admitted to the New York Bar the following year.\n\nOn the recommendation of Cabranes, Sotomayor was hired out of law school as an assistant district attorney under New York County District Attorney Robert Morgenthau starting in 1979. She said at the time that she did so with conflicted emotions: \"There was a tremendous amount of pressure from my community, from the third world community, at Yale. They could not understand why I was taking this job. I'm not sure I've ever resolved that problem.\" It was a time of crisis-level crime rates and drug problems in New York, Morgenthau's staff was overburdened with cases, and like other rookie prosecutors, Sotomayor was initially fearful of appearing before judges in court. Working in the trial division, she handled heavy caseloads as she prosecuted everything from shoplifting and prostitution to robberies, assaults, and murders. She also worked on cases involving police brutality. She was not afraid to venture into tough neighborhoods or endure squalid conditions in order to interview witnesses. In the courtroom, she was effective at cross examination and at simplifying a case in ways to which a jury could relate. In 1983 in her highest profile case she helped convict the \"Tarzan Murderer\" (who acrobatically entered apartments, robbed them, and shot residents for no reason). She felt lower-level crimes were largely products of socioeconomic environment and poverty, but she had a different attitude about serious felonies: \"No matter how liberal I am, I'm still outraged by crimes of violence. Regardless of whether I can sympathize with the causes that lead these individuals to do these crimes, the effects are outrageous.\" Hispanic-on-Hispanic crime was of particular concern to her: \"The saddest crimes for me were the ones that my own people committed against each other.\" In general, she showed a passion for bringing law and order to the streets of New York, displaying special zeal in pursuing child pornography cases, unusual for the time. She worked 15-hour days and gained a reputation for being driven and for her preparedness and fairness. One of her job evaluations labelled her a \"potential superstar\". Morgenthau later described her as \"smart, hard-working, [and having] a lot of common sense,\" and as a \"fearless and effective prosecutor.\" She stayed a typical length of time in the post and had a common reaction to the job: \"After a while, you forget there are decent, law-abiding people in life.\"\n\nSotomayor and Noonan divorced amicably in 1983; they did not have children. She has said that the pressures of her working life were a contributing factor, but not the major factor, in the breakup. From 1983 to 1986, Sotomayor had an informal solo practice, dubbed Sotomayor & Associates, located in her Brooklyn apartment. She performed legal consulting work, often for friends or family members.\n\nIn 1984, she entered private practice, joining the commercial litigation practice group of Pavia & Harcourt in Manhattan as an associate. One of 30 attorneys in the law firm, she specialized in intellectual property litigation, international law, and arbitration. She later said, \"I wanted to complete myself as an attorney.\" Although she had no civil litigation experience, the firm recruited her heavily, and she learned quickly on the job. She was eager to try cases and argue in court, rather than be part of a larger law firm. Her clients were mostly international corporations doing business in the United States; much of her time was spent tracking down and suing counterfeiters of Fendi goods. In some cases, Sotomayor went on-site with the police to Harlem or Chinatown to have illegitimate merchandise seized, in the latter instance pursuing a fleeing culprit while riding on a motorcycle. She said at the time that Pavia & Harcourt's efforts were run \"much like a drug operation\", and the successful rounding up of thousands of counterfeit accessories in 1986 was celebrated by \"Fendi Crush\", a destruction-by-garbage-truck event at Tavern on the Green. At other times, she dealt with dry legal issues such as grain export contract disputes. In a 1986 appearance on \"Good Morning America\" that profiled women ten years after college graduation, she said that the bulk of law work was drudgery, and that while she was content with her life, she had expected greater things of herself coming out of college. In 1988 she became a partner at the firm; she was paid well but not extravagantly. She left in 1992 when she became a judge.\n\nIn addition to her law firm work, Sotomayor found visible public service roles. She was not connected to the party bosses that typically picked people for such jobs in New York, and indeed she was registered as an independent. Instead, District Attorney Morgenthau, an influential figure, served as her patron. In 1987, Governor of New York Mario Cuomo appointed Sotomayor to the board of the State of New York Mortgage Agency, which she served on until 1992. As part of one of the largest urban rebuilding efforts in American history, the agency helped low-income people get home mortgages and to provide insurance coverage for housing and AIDS hospices. Despite being the youngest member of a board composed of strong personalities, she involved herself in the details of the operation and was effective. She was vocal in supporting the right to affordable housing, directing more funds to lower-income home owners, and in her skepticism about the effects of gentrification, although in the end she voted in favor of most of the projects.\n\nSotomayor was appointed by Mayor Ed Koch in 1988 as one of the founding members of the New York City Campaign Finance Board, where she served for four years. There she took a vigorous role in the board's implementation of a voluntary scheme wherein local candidates received public matching funds in exchange for limits on contributions and spending and agreeing to greater financial disclosure. Sotomayor showed no patience with candidates who failed to follow regulations and was more of a stickler for making campaigns follow those regulations than some of the other board members. She joined in rulings that fined, audited, or reprimanded the mayoral campaigns of Koch, David Dinkins, and Rudy Giuliani.\n\nBased upon another recommendation from Cabranes, Sotomayor was a member of the board of directors of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund from 1980 to 1992. There she was a top policy maker who worked actively with the organization's lawyers on issues such as New York City hiring practices, police brutality, the death penalty, and voting rights. The group achieved its most visible triumph when it successfully blocked a city primary election on the grounds that New York City Council boundaries diminished the power of minority voters.\n\nDuring 1985 and 1986, Sotomayor served on the board of the Maternity Center Association, a Manhattan-based non-profit group which focused on improving the quality of maternity care.\n\nSotomayor had wanted to become a judge since she was in elementary school, and in 1991 she was recommended for a spot by Democratic New York senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan. Moynihan had an unusual bipartisan arrangement with his fellow New York senator, Republican Al D'Amato, whereby he would get to choose roughly one out of every four New York district court seats even though a Republican was in the White House. Moynihan also wanted to fulfill a public promise he had made to get a Hispanic judge appointed for New York. When Moynihan's staff recommended her to him, they said \"Have we got a judge for you!\" Moynihan identified with her socio-economic and academic background and became convinced she would become the first Hispanic Supreme Court justice. D'Amato became an enthusiastic backer of Sotomayor, who was seen as politically centrist at the time. Of the impending drop in salary from private practice, Sotomayor said: \"I've never wanted to get adjusted to my income because I knew I wanted to go back to public service. And in comparison to what my mother earns and how I was raised, it's not modest at all.\"\n\nSotomayor was thus nominated on November 27, 1991, by President George H. W. Bush to a seat on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York vacated by John M. Walker Jr. Senate Judiciary Committee hearings, led by a friendly Democratic majority, went smoothly for her in June 1992, with her pro bono activities winning praise from Senator Ted Kennedy and her getting unanimous approval from the committee. Then a Republican senator blocked her nomination and that of three others for a while in retaliation for an unrelated block Democrats had put on another nominee. D'Amato objected strongly; some weeks later, the block was dropped, and Sotomayor was confirmed by unanimous consent of the full United States Senate on August 11, 1992, and received her commission the next day.\n\nSotomayor became the youngest judge in the Southern District and the first Hispanic federal judge in New York State. She became the first Puerto Rican woman to serve as a judge in a U.S. federal court. She was one of seven women among the district's 58 judges. She moved from Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, back to the Bronx in order to live within her district.\n\nSotomayor generally kept a low public profile as a district court judge. She showed a willingness to take anti-government positions in a number of cases, and during her first year in the seat, she received high ratings from liberal public-interest groups. Other sources and organizations regarded her as a centrist during this period. In criminal cases, she gained a reputation for tough sentencing and was not viewed as a pro-defense judge. A Syracuse University study found that in such cases, Sotomayor generally handed out longer sentences than her colleagues, especially when white-collar crime was involved. Fellow district judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum was an influence on Sotomayor in adopting a narrow, \"just the facts\" approach to judicial decision-making.\n\nAs a trial judge, she garnered a reputation for being well-prepared in advance of a case and moving cases along a tight schedule. Lawyers before her court viewed her as plain-spoken, intelligent, demanding, and sometimes somewhat unforgiving; one said, \"She does not have much patience for people trying to snow her. You can't do it.\"\n\nOn March 30, 1995, in \"Silverman v. Major League Baseball Player Relations Committee, Inc.\", Sotomayor issued a preliminary injunction against Major League Baseball, preventing it from unilaterally implementing a new collective bargaining agreement and using replacement players. Her ruling ended the 1994 baseball strike after 232 days, the day before the new season was scheduled to begin. The Second Circuit upheld Sotomayor's decision and denied the owners' request to stay the ruling. The decision raised her profile, won her the plaudits of baseball fans, and had a lasting effect on the game. In the preparatory phase of the case, Sotomayor informed the lawyers of both sides that, \"I hope none of you assumed ... that my lack of knowledge of any of the intimate details of your dispute meant I was not a baseball fan. You can't grow up in the South Bronx without knowing about baseball.\"\n\nIn \"Dow Jones v. Department of Justice\" (1995), Sotomayor sided with the \"Wall Street Journal\" in its efforts to obtain and publish a photocopy of the last note left by former Deputy White House Counsel Vince Foster. Sotomayor ruled that the public had \"a substantial interest\" in viewing the note and enjoined the U.S. Justice Department from blocking its release.\n\nIn \"New York Times Co. v. Tasini\" (1997), freelance journalists sued the New York Times Company for copyright infringement for the \"New York Times\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> inclusion in an electronic archival database (LexisNexis) of the work of freelancers it had published. Sotomayor ruled that the publisher had the right to license the freelancers' work. This decision was reversed on appeal, and the Supreme Court upheld the reversal; two dissenters (John Paul Stevens and Stephen Breyer) took Sotomayor's position.\n\nIn \"Castle Rock Entertainment, Inc. v. Carol Publishing Group\" (also in 1997), Sotomayor ruled that a book of trivia from the television program \"Seinfeld\" infringed on the copyright of the show's producer and did not constitute legal fair use. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit upheld Sotomayor's ruling.\n\nOn June 25, 1997, Sotomayor was nominated by President Bill Clinton to a seat on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which was vacated by J. Daniel Mahoney. Her nomination was initially expected to have smooth sailing, with the American Bar Association Standing Committee on the Federal Judiciary giving her a \"well qualified\" professional assessment. However, as \"The New York Times\" described, \"[it became] embroiled in the sometimes tortured judicial politics of the Senate.\" Some in the Republican majority believed Clinton was eager to name the first Hispanic Supreme Court justice and that an easy confirmation to the appeals court would put Sotomayor in a better position for a possible Supreme Court nomination (despite there being no vacancy at the time nor any indication the Clinton administration was considering nominating her or any Hispanic). Therefore, the Republican majority decided to slow her confirmation. Radio commentator Rush Limbaugh weighed in that Sotomayor was an ultraliberal who was on a \"rocket ship\" to the highest court.\n\nDuring her September 1997 hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sotomayor parried strong questioning from some Republican members about mandatory sentencing, gay rights, and her level of respect for Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. After a long wait, she was approved by the committee in March 1998, with only two dissensions. However, in June 1998, the influential \"Wall Street Journal\" editorial page opined that the Clinton administration intended to \"get her on to the Second Circuit, then elevate her to the Supreme Court as soon as an opening occurs\"; the editorial criticized two of her district court rulings and urged further delay of her confirmation. The Republican block continued.\n\nRanking Democratic committee member Patrick Leahy objected to Republican use of a secret hold to slow down the Sotomayor nomination, and Leahy attributed that anonymous tactic to GOP reticence about publicly opposing a female Hispanic nominee. The prior month, Leahy had triggered a procedural delay in the confirmation of fellow Second Circuit nominee Chester J. Straub—who, although advanced by Clinton and supported by Senator Moynihan, was considered much more acceptable by Republicans—in an unsuccessful effort to force earlier consideration of the Sotomayor confirmation.\n\nDuring 1998, several Hispanic organizations organized a petition drive in New York State, generating hundreds of signatures from New Yorkers to try to convince New York Republican senator Al D'Amato to push the Senate leadership to bring Sotomayor's nomination to a vote. D'Amato, a backer of Sotomayor to begin with and additionally concerned about being up for re-election that year, helped move Republican leadership. Her nomination had been pending for over a year when Majority Leader Trent Lott scheduled the vote. With complete Democratic support, and support from 25 Republican senators including Judiciary chair Orrin Hatch, Sotomayor was confirmed on October 2, 1998, by a 67–29 vote. She received her commission on October 7. The confirmation experience left Sotomayor somewhat angry; she said shortly afterwards that during the hearings, Republicans had assumed her political beliefs based on her being a Latina: \"That series of questions, I think, were symbolic of a set of expectations that some people had [that] I must be liberal. It is stereotyping, and stereotyping is perhaps the most insidious of all problems in our society today.\"\n\nOver her ten years on the Second Circuit, Sotomayor heard appeals in more than 3,000 cases and wrote about 380 opinions where she was in the majority. The Supreme Court reviewed five of those, reversing three and affirming two—not high numbers for an appellate judge of that many years and a typical percentage of reversals.\n\nSotomayor's circuit court rulings led to her being considered a political centrist by the \"ABA Journal\" and other sources and organizations. Several lawyers, legal experts, and news organizations identified her as someone with liberal inclinations. In any case, the Second Circuit's caseload typically skewed more toward business and securities law rather than hot-button social or constitutional issues. Sotomayor tended to write narrow, practiced rulings that relied on close application of the law to the facts of a case rather than import general philosophical viewpoints. A Congressional Research Service analysis found that Sotomayor's rulings defied easy ideological categorization, but did show an adherence to precedent and an avoidance of overstepping the circuit court's judicial role. Unusually, Sotomayor read through all the supporting documents of cases under review; her lengthy rulings explored every aspect of a case and tended to feature leaden, ungainly prose. Some legal experts have said that Sotomayor's attention to detail and re-examination of the facts of a case came close to overstepping the traditional role of appellate judges.\n\nAcross some 150 cases involving business and civil law, Sotomayor's rulings were generally unpredictable and not consistently pro-business or anti-business. Sotomayor's influence in the federal judiciary, as measured by the number of citations of her rulings by other judges and in law review articles, increased significantly during the length of her appellate judgeship and was greater than that of some other prominent federal appeals court judges. Two academic studies showed that the percentage of Sotomayor's decisions that overrode policy decisions by elected branches was the same as or lower than that of other circuit judges.\n\nSotomayor was a member of the Second Circuit Task Force on Gender, Racial and Ethnic Fairness in the Courts. In October 2001, she presented the annual Judge Mario G. Olmos Memorial Lecture at UC Berkeley School of Law; titled \"A Latina Judge's Voice\"; it was published in the \"Berkeley La Raza Law Journal\" the following spring. In the speech, she discussed the characteristics of her Latina upbringing and culture and the history of minorities and women ascending to the federal bench. She said the low number of minority women on the federal bench at that time was \"shocking\". She then discussed at length how her own experiences as a Latina might affect her decisions as a judge. In any case, her background in activism did not necessarily influence her rulings: in a study of 50 racial discrimination cases brought before her panel, 45 were rejected, with Sotomayor never filing a dissent. An expanded study showed that Sotomayor decided 97 cases involving a claim of discrimination and rejected those claims nearly 90 percent of the time. Another examination of Second Circuit split decisions on cases that dealt with race and discrimination showed no clear ideological pattern in Sotomayor's opinions.\n\nIn the Court of Appeals seat, Sotomayor gained a reputation for vigorous and blunt behavior toward lawyers appealing before her, sometimes to the point of brusque and curt treatment or testy interruptions. She was known for extensive preparation for oral arguments and for running a \"hot bench\", where judges ask lawyers plenty of questions. Unprepared lawyers suffered the consequences, but the vigorous questioning was an aid to lawyers seeking to tailor their arguments to the judge's concerns. The 2009 \"Almanac of the Federal Judiciary\", which collected anonymous evaluations of judges by lawyers who appear before them, contained a wide range of reactions to Sotomayor. Comments also diverged among lawyers willing to be named. Attorney Sheema Chaudhry said, \"She's brilliant and she's qualified, but I just feel that she can be very, how do you say, temperamental.\" Defense lawyer Gerald B. Lefcourt said, \"She used her questioning to make a point, as opposed to really looking for an answer to a question she did not understand.\" In contrast, Second Circuit Judge Richard C. Wesley said that his interactions with Sotomayor had been \"totally antithetical to this perception that has gotten some traction that she is somehow confrontational.\" Second Circuit Judge and former teacher Guido Calabresi said his tracking showed that Sotomayor's questioning patterns were no different from those of other members of the court and added, \"Some lawyers just don’t like to be questioned by a woman. [The criticism] was sexist, plain and simple.\"\nSotomayor's law clerks regarded her as a valuable and strong mentor, and she said that she viewed them like family.\n\nIn 2005, Senate Democrats suggested Sotomayor, among others, to President George W. Bush as an acceptable nominee to fill the seat of retiring Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor.\n\nIn the 2002 decision \"Center for Reproductive Law and Policy v. Bush\", Sotomayor upheld the Bush administration's implementation of the Mexico City Policy, which states that \"the United States will no longer contribute to separate nongovernmental organizations which perform or actively promote abortion as a method of family planning in other nations.\" Sotomayor held that the policy did not constitute a violation of equal protection, as \"the government is free to favor the anti-abortion position over the pro-choice position, and can do so with public funds.\"\n\nIn \"Pappas v. Giuliani\" (2002), Sotomayor dissented from her colleagues' ruling that the New York Police Department could terminate from his desk job an employee who sent racist materials through the mail. Sotomayor argued that the First Amendment protected speech by the employee \"away from the office, on [his] own time\", even if that speech was \"offensive, hateful, and insulting\", and that therefore the employee's First Amendment claim should have gone to trial rather than being dismissed on summary judgment.\n\nIn 2005, Sotomayor wrote the opinion for \"United States v. Quattrone\". Frank Quattrone had been on trial on charges of obstructing investigations related to technology IPOs. Some members of the media had wanted to publish the names of the jurors deciding Quattrone's case, and a district court had issued an order to forbid the publication of the juror's names. In \"United States v. Quattrone\", Sotomayor wrote the opinion for the Second Circuit panel striking down this order on First Amendment grounds, stating that the media should be free to publish the names of the jurors. The first trial ended in a deadlocked jury and a mistrial, and the district court ordered the media not to publish the names of jurors, even though those names had been disclosed in open court. Sotomayor held that although it was important to protect the fairness of the retrial, the district court's order was an unconstitutional prior restraint on free speech and violated the right of the press \"to report freely on events that transpire in an open courtroom\".\n\nIn 2008, Sotomayor was on a three-judge panel in \"Doninger v. Niehoff\" that unanimously affirmed, in an opinion written by Second Circuit Judge Debra Livingston, the district court's judgment that Lewis S. Mills High School did not violate the First Amendment rights of a student when it barred her from running for student government after she called the superintendent and other school officials \"douchebags\" in a blog post written while off-campus that encouraged students to call an administrator and \"piss her off more\". Judge Livingston held that the district judge did not abuse her discretion in holding that the student's speech \"foreseeably create[d] a risk of substantial disruption within the school environment\", which is the precedent in the Second Circuit for when schools may regulate off-campus speech. Although Sotomayor did not write this opinion, she has been criticized by some who disagree with it.\n\nSotomayor was part of the three-judge Second Circuit panel that affirmed the district court's ruling in \"Maloney v. Cuomo\" (2009). Maloney was arrested for possession of nunchucks, which are illegal in New York; Maloney argued that this law violated his Second Amendment right to bear arms. The Second Circuit's \"per curiam\" opinion noted that the Supreme Court has not, so far, ever held that the Second Amendment is binding against state governments. On the contrary, in \"Presser v. Illinois\", a Supreme Court case from 1886, the Supreme Court held that the Second Amendment \"is a limitation only upon the power of Congress and the national government, and not upon that of the state\". With respect to the \"Presser v. Illinois\" precedent, the panel stated that only the Supreme Court has \"the prerogative of overruling its own decisions,\" and the recent Supreme Court case of \"District of Columbia v. Heller\" (which struck down the district's gun ban as unconstitutional) did \"not invalidate this longstanding principle\". The panel upheld the lower court's decision dismissing Maloney's challenge to New York's law against possession of nunchucks. On June 2, 2009, a Seventh Circuit panel, including the prominent and heavily cited judges Richard Posner and Frank Easterbrook, unanimously agreed with \"Maloney v. Cuomo\", citing the case in their decision turning back a challenge to Chicago's gun laws and noting the Supreme Court precedents remain in force until altered by the Supreme Court itself.\n\nIn \"N.G. & S.G. ex rel. S.C. v. Connecticut\" (2004), Sotomayor dissented from her colleagues’ decision to uphold a series of strip searches of \"troubled adolescent girls\" in juvenile detention centers. While Sotomayor agreed that some of the strip searches at issue in the case were lawful, she would have held that due to \"the severely intrusive nature of strip searches\", they should not be allowed \"in the absence of individualized suspicion, of adolescents who have never been charged with a crime\". She argued that an \"individualized suspicion\" rule was more consistent with Second Circuit precedent than the majority's rule.\n\nIn \"Leventhal v. Knapek\" (2001), Sotomayor rejected a Fourth Amendment challenge by a U.S. Department of Transportation employee whose employer searched his office computer. She held that, \"Even though [the employee] had some expectation of privacy in the contents of his office computer, the investigatory searches by the DOT did not violate his Fourth Amendment rights\" because here \"there were reasonable grounds to believe\" that the search would reveal evidence of \"work-related misconduct\".\n\nIn 2004, Sotomayor was part of the judge panel that ruled in \"Swedenburg v. Kelly\" that New York's law prohibiting out-of-state wineries from shipping directly to consumers in New York was constitutional even though in-state wineries were allowed to. The case, which invoked the 21st Amendment, was appealed and attached to another case. The case reached the Supreme Court later on as \"Swedenburg v. Kelly\" and was overruled in a 5–4 decision that found the law was discriminatory and unconstitutional.\n\nSotomayor was involved in the high-profile case \"Ricci v. DeStefano\" that initially upheld the right of the City of New Haven to throw out its test for firefighters and start over with a new test, because the City believed the test had a \"disparate impact\" on minority firefighters. (No black firefighters qualified for promotion under the test, whereas some had qualified under tests used in previous years.) The City was concerned that minority firefighters might sue under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The City chose not to certify the test results and a lower court had previously upheld the City's right to do this. Several white firefighters and one Hispanic firefighter who had passed the test, including the lead plaintiff who has dyslexia and had put much extra effort into studying, sued the City of New Haven, claiming that their rights were violated. A Second Circuit panel that included Sotomayor first issued a brief, unsigned summary order (not written by Sotomayor) affirming the lower court's ruling. Sotomayor's former mentor José A. Cabranes, by now a fellow judge on the court, objected to this handling and requested that the court hear it en banc. Sotomayor voted with a 7–6 majority not to rehear it and a slightly expanded ruling was issued, but a strong dissent by Cabranes led to the case reaching the Supreme Court in 2009. There it was overruled in a 5–4 decision that found the white firefighters had been victims of racial discrimination when they were denied promotion.\n\nIn \"Clarett v. National Football League\" (2004), Sotomayor upheld the National Football League's eligibility rules requiring players to wait three full seasons after high school graduation before entering the NFL draft. Maurice Clarett challenged these rules, which were part of the collective bargaining agreement between the NFL and its players, on antitrust grounds. Sotomayor held that Clarett's claim would upset the established \"federal labor law favoring and governing the collective bargaining process\".\n\nIn \"Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. v. Dabit\" (2005), Sotomayor wrote a unanimous opinion that the Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act of 1998 did not preempt class action claims in state courts by stockbrokers alleging misleading inducement to buy or sell stocks. The Supreme Court handed down an 8–0 decision stating that the Act did preempt such claims, thereby overruling Sotomayor's decision.\n\nIn \"Specht v. Netscape Communications Corp.\" (2001), she ruled that the license agreement of Netscape's Smart Download software did not constitute a binding contract because the system didn't give \"sufficient notice\" to the user.\n\nIn \"Correctional Services Corp. v. Malesko\" (2000), Sotomayor, writing for the court, supported the right of an individual to sue a private corporation working on behalf of the federal government for alleged violations of that individual's constitutional rights. Reversing a lower court decision, Sotomayor found that an existing Supreme Court doctrine, known as \"Bivens\"—which allows suits against individuals working for the federal government for constitutional rights violations—could be applied to the case of a former prisoner seeking to sue the private company operating the federal halfway house facility in which he resided. The Supreme Court reversed Sotomayor's ruling in a 5–4 decision, saying that the Bivens doctrine could not be expanded to cover private entities working on behalf of the federal government. Justices Stevens, Souter, Ginsburg, and Breyer dissented, siding with Sotomayor's original ruling.\n\nIn \"Gant v. Wallingford Board of Education\" (1999), the parents of a black student alleged that he had been harassed due to his race and had been discriminated against when he was transferred from a first grade class to a kindergarten class without parental consent, while similarly situated white students were treated differently. Sotomayor agreed with the dismissal of the harassment claims due to lack of evidence, but would have allowed the discrimination claim to go forward. She wrote in dissent that the grade transfer was \"contrary to the school's established policies\" as well as its treatment of white students, which \"supports the inference that race discrimination played a role\".\n\nIn \"Krimstock v. Kelly\" (2002), Sotomayor wrote an opinion halting New York City's practice of seizing the motor vehicles of drivers accused of driving while intoxicated and some other crimes and holding those vehicles for \"months or even years\" during criminal proceedings. Noting the importance of cars to many individuals' livelihoods or daily activities, she held that it violated individuals' due process rights to hold the vehicles without permitting the owners to challenge the City's continued possession of their property.\n\nIn \"Brody v. Village of Port Chester\" (2003 and 2005), a takings case, Sotomayor first ruled in 2003 for a unanimous panel that a property owner in Port Chester, New York was permitted to challenge the state's Eminent Domain Procedure Law. A district court subsequently rejected the plaintiff's claims and upon appeal the case found itself again with the Second Circuit. In 2005, Sotomayor ruled with a panel majority that the property owner's due process rights had been violated by lack of adequate notice to him of his right to challenge a village order that his land should be used for a redevelopment project. However, the panel supported the village's taking of the property for public use.\n\nIn \"Didden v. Village of Port Chester\" (2006), an unrelated case brought about by the same town's actions, Sotomayor joined a unanimous panel's summary order to uphold a trial court's dismissal – due to a statute of limitations lapse – of a property owner's objection to his land being condemned for a redevelopment project. The ruling further said that even without the lapse, the owner's petition would be denied due to application of the Supreme Court's recent \"Kelo v. City of New London\" ruling. The Second Circuit's reasoning drew criticism from libertarian commentators.\n\nFollowing Barack Obama's 2008 presidential election victory, speculation arose that Sotomayor could be a leading candidate for a Supreme Court seat. New York Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand wrote a joint letter to Obama urging him to appoint Sotomayor, or alternatively Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, to the Supreme Court if a vacancy should arise during his term.<ref name=\"Schumer/Gillibrand\"></ref> The White House first contacted Sotomayor on April 27, 2009, about the possibility of her nomination. On April 30, 2009, Justice David Souter's retirement plans leaked to the media, and Sotomayor received early attention as a possible nominee for Souter's seat to be vacated in June 2009. On May 25, Obama informed Sotomayor of his choice; she later said, \"I had my [hand] over my chest, trying to calm my beating heart, literally.\" On May 26, 2009, Obama nominated her. She became only the second jurist to be nominated to three different judicial positions by three different presidents. The selection appeared to closely match Obama's presidential campaign promise that he would nominate judges who had \"the heart, the empathy, to recognize what it's like to be a teenage mom. The empathy to understand what it's like to be poor, or African-American, or gay, or disabled, or old.\"\n\nSotomayor's nomination won praise from Democrats and liberals, and Democrats appeared to have sufficient votes to confirm her. The strongest criticism of her nomination came from conservatives and some Republican senators regarding a line she had used in similar forms in a number of her speeches, particularly in a 2001 Berkeley Law lecture: \"I would hope that a wise Latina woman with the richness of her experiences would more often than not reach a better conclusion than a white male who hasn't lived that life.\" Sotomayor had made similar remarks in other speeches between 1994 and 2003, including one she submitted as part of her confirmation questionnaire for the Court of Appeals in 1998, but they had attracted little attention at the time. The remark now became widely known. The rhetoric quickly became inflamed, with radio commentator Rush Limbaugh and former Republican Speaker of the House of Representatives Newt Gingrich calling Sotomayor a \"racist\" (although the latter later backtracked from that claim), while John Cornyn and other Republican senators denounced such attacks but said that Sotomayor's approach was troubling. Backers of Sotomayor offered a variety of explanations in defense of the remark, and White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs stated that Sotomayor's word choice in 2001 had been \"poor\". Sotomayor subsequently clarified her remark through Senate Judiciary Committee chair Patrick Leahy, saying that while life experience shapes who one is, \"ultimately and completely\" a judge follows the law regardless of personal background. Of her cases, the Second Circuit rulings in \"Ricci v. DeStefano\" received the most attention during the early nomination discussion, motivated by the Republican desire to focus on the reverse racial discrimination aspect of the case. In the midst of her confirmation process the Supreme Court overturned that ruling on June 29. A third line of Republican attack against Sotomayor was based on her ruling in \"Maloney v. Cuomo\" and was motivated by gun ownership advocates concerned about her interpretation of Second Amendment rights. Some of the fervor with which conservatives and Republicans viewed the Sotomayor nomination was due to their grievances over the history of federal judicial nomination battles going back to the 1987 Robert Bork Supreme Court nomination.\n\nA Gallup poll released a week after the nomination showed 54 percent of Americans in favor of Sotomayor's confirmation compared with 28 percent in opposition. A June 12 Fox News poll showed 58 percent of the public disagreeing with her \"wise Latina\" remark but 67 percent saying the remark should not disqualify her from serving on the Supreme Court. The American Bar Association gave her a unanimous \"well qualified\" assessment, its highest mark for professional qualification. Following the \"Ricci\" overruling, Rasmussen Reports and CNN/Opinion Research polls showed that the public was now sharply divided, largely along partisan and ideological lines, as to whether Sotomayor should be confirmed.\nSotomayor's confirmation hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee began on July 13, 2009, during which she backed away from her \"wise Latina\" remark, declaring it \"a rhetorical flourish that fell flat\" and stating that \"I do not believe that any ethnic, racial or gender group has an advantage in sound judgment.\" When Republican senators confronted her regarding other remarks from her past speeches, she pointed to her judicial record and said she had never let her own life experiences or opinions influence her decisions. Republican senators said that while her rulings to this point might be largely traditional, they feared her Supreme Court rulings – where there is more latitude with respect to precedent and interpretation – might be more reflective of her speeches. Sotomayor defended her position in \"Ricci\" as following applicable precedent. When asked whom she admired, she pointed to Justice Benjamin N. Cardozo. In general, Sotomayor followed the hearings formula of recent past nominees by avoiding stating personal positions, declining to take positions on controversial issues likely to come before the Court, agreeing with senators from both parties, and repeatedly affirming that as a justice she would just apply the law.\n\nOn July 28, 2009, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted 13–6 in favor of Sotomayor's nomination, sending it to the full Senate for a final confirmation vote. Every Democrat voted in her favor, as did one Republican, Lindsey Graham. On August 6, 2009, Sotomayor was confirmed by the full Senate by a vote of 68–31. All Democrats present, along with the Senate's two Independents plus nine Republicans, voted for her.\nPresident Obama commissioned Sotomayor on the day of her confirmation, and her swearing-in ceremony took place on August 8, 2009, at the Supreme Court Building. Chief Justice John Roberts administered the prescribed constitutional and judicial oaths of office, at which time she became the 111th justice (99th associate justice) of the Supreme Court. Sotomayor is the first Hispanic to serve on the Supreme Court, and is one of four women who have served on the Court, along with Sandra Day O'Connor (1981–2006), Ruth Bader Ginsburg (since 1993) and Elena Kagan (since 2010). Sotomayor's appointment gave the Court a record six Roman Catholic justices serving at the same time.\n\nSotomayor cast her first vote as an associate Supreme Court justice on August 17, 2009, in a stay of execution case. She was given a warm welcome onto the Court and was formally invested in a September 8 ceremony. Sotomayor's inaugural case in which she heard arguments was on September 9 during a special session, \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission\". It involved the controversial aspect of the First Amendment and the rights of corporations in campaign finance; Sotomayor dissented. In her vigorous examination of Floyd Abrams, representing the First Amendment issues in the case, Sotomayor challenged him, questioning 19th century rulings of the Court and saying, \"What you are suggesting is that the courts, who created corporations as persons, gave birth to corporations as persons, and there could be an argument made that that was the Court's error to start with ... [imbuing] a creature of State law with human characteristics.\"\n\nSotomayor's first major written opinion was a dissent in the \"Berghuis v. Thompkins\" case dealing with Miranda rights. As her first year neared completion, Sotomayor said she felt swamped by the intensity and heavy workload of the job. During the oral arguments for \"National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius\", Sotomayor showed her increasing familiarity with the Court and its protocols by directing the opening questions of the arguments to Donald Verrilli, the Solicitor General who was representing the government's position.\n\nIn succeeding Justice Souter, Sotomayor had done little to change the philosophical and ideological balance of the Court. While many cases are decided unanimously or with different voting coalitions, Sotomayor has continued to be a reliable member of the liberal bloc of the court when the justices divide along the commonly perceived ideological lines. Specifically, her voting pattern and judicial philosophy has been in close agreement with that of Justices Breyer, Ginsburg and Kagan. During her first couple of years there, Sotomayor voted with Ginsburg and Breyer 90 percent of the time, one of the highest agreement rates on the Court. In a 2015 article titled \"Ranking the Most Liberal Modern Supreme Court Justices\", Alex Greer identified Sotomayor as representing a more liberal voting pattern than both Elena Kagan and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Greer placed Sotomayor as having the most liberal voting history of all the current sitting Justices, and slightly less liberal than her predecessors Thurgood Marshall and John Marshall Harlan II on the Court.\n\nJustices Roberts, Kennedy, Thomas, and Alito (and former Justice Scalia) have comprised the identifiable conservative wing of the Court. Although, five of the justices on the Supreme Court self-identify as having Roman Catholic affiliation, Sotomayor's voting history identifies her singly among them with the liberal bloc of the Court. However, there is a wide divergence among Catholics in general in their approaches to the law. Due to her upbringing and her past jobs and positions, Sotomayor has brought one of the more diverse set of life experiences to the court.\n\nThere have been some deviations from the ideological pattern. In a 2013 book on the Roberts Court, author Marcia Coyle assessed Sotomayor's position on the Confrontation Clause of the Sixth Amendment as a strong guarantee of the right of a defendant to confront his or her accusers. Sotomayor's judicial philosophy on the issue is seen as being in parity with Elena Kagan and, unexpectedly for Sotomayor, also in at least partial agreement with the originalist reading of Antonin Scalia when applied to the clause.\n\nOn January 20 and 21, 2013, Sotomayor administered the oath to Vice President Joe Biden for the inauguration of his second term. Sotomayor became the first Hispanic and fourth woman to administer the oath to a president or vice president.\n\nBy the end of her fifth year on the court, Sotomayor had become especially visible in oral arguments and in passionate dissents from various majority rulings, especially those involving issues of race, gender and ethnic identity. Sotomayor has shown her individuality on the Court in a number of decisions. In her reading of the constitutionality of the Obama health care law favoring the poor and disabled, she sided with Ginsburg against fellow liberals Breyer and Kagan. In dealing with the Chief Justice, Sotomayor had no difficulty in responding to his statement that \"the way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discrimination on the basis of race,\" by stating, \"I don't borrow Chief Justice Roberts's description of what color-blindness is... Our society is too complex to use that kind of analysis.\" In the manufacturer liability case of \"Williamson v. Mazda\", which the court decided unanimously, she wrote a separate concurring opinion. Sotomayor's rapport with her clerks is seen as more formalistic than some of the other justices as she requires detailed and rigorous evaluations of cases she is considering with a table of contents attached. When compared to Kagan directly, one of their colleagues stated, \"Neither of them is a shrinking violet\". Coyle, in her 2013 book on the Roberts Court stated that: \"Both women are more vocal during arguments than the justices whom they succeeded, and they have energized the moderate-liberal side of the bench.\"\n\nDuring her tenure on the court, Sotomayor has also become recognizable as being among the court's strongest voices in supporting the rights of the accused. She has been identified by Laurence Tribe as the foremost voice on the court calling for reforming criminal justice adjudication – in particular as it relates misconduct by police and prosecutors, abuses in prisons, concerns about how the death penalty is used, and the potential for loss of privacy – and Tribe has compared her will to reform in general to that of past Chief Justice Earl Warren.\n\nIn January 2019, Bonnie Kristian of \"The Week\" wrote that an \"unexpected civil libertarian alliance\" was developing between Sotomayor and Neil Gorsuch \"in defense of robust due process rights and skepticism of law enforcement overreach.\"\n\nIn 2011, Sotomayor wrote the majority opinion in \"J.D.B. v. North Carolina\", in which the Supreme Court held that age is relevant when determining when a person is in police custody for \"Miranda\" purposes. J.D.B. was a 13-year-old student enrolled in special education classes whom police had suspected of committing two robberies. A police investigator visited J.D.B. at school, where he was interrogated by the investigator, a uniformed police officer, and school officials. J.D.B. subsequently confessed to his crimes and was convicted. J.D.B. was not given a \"Miranda\" warning during the interrogation, nor an opportunity to contact his legal guardian. In determining that a child's age properly informs the \"Miranda\" custody analysis, Sotomayor wrote that \"to hold... that a child's age is never relevant to whether a suspect has been taken into custody— and thus to ignore the very real differences between children and adults— would be to deny children the full scope of the procedural safeguards that Miranda guarantees to adults\". Sotomayor's opinion cited the Court's earlier decisions in \"Stansbury v. California\" (holding that held that a child's age \"would have affected how a reasonable person\" would \"perceive his or her freedom to leave\") and \"Yarborough v. Alvarado\" (holding that a child's age \"generates commonsense conclusions about behavior and perception\"). Sotomayor also pointed out that the law recognizes that child's judgment is not the same as an adult's, in the form of legal disqualifications on children as a class (e.g. limitations on a child's ability to marry without parental consent). Associate Justice Samuel Alito, jointed by three other justices, wrote a dissenting opinion.\n\nIn \"United States v. Alvarez\" (2012), the Court struck down the Stolen Valor Act (a federal law that criminalized false statements about having received a military medal) on First Amendment grounds. While a 6-3 majority of the Court agreed that the law was an unconstitutional violation of the Free Speech Clause, it could not agree on a single rationale. Sotomayor was among four justices, along with Justices Roberts, Ginsburg and Kennedy, who concluded that a statement's falsity is not enough, by itself, to exclude speech from First Amendment protection. Justices Breyer and Kagan concluded that while false statements were entitled to some protection, the act was invalid because it could have achieved its objectives in less restrictive ways. Justices Scalia, Thomas and Alito dissented.\n\nIn \"National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius\" (2012), Sotomayor was part of a 5–4 majority that upheld most of the provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (while being part of a dissent against the reliance upon the Constitution's Taxing and Spending Clause rather than Commerce Clause in arriving at the support). Legal writer Jeffrey Toobin wrote, \"Sotomayor's concerns tended toward the earthbound and practical. Sometimes, during oral arguments, she would go on tangents involving detailed questions about the facts of cases that would leave her colleagues stupefied, sinking into their chairs. This time, though, she had a simple line of inquiry. States require individuals to buy automobile insurance (implicitly suggesting the unavoidable comparison to health insurance and the fairness of the applying the same principle to health insurance as well).\" Sotomayor concluded with the incisive rhetorical flourish in the Court directed at the attorneys: \"Do you think that if some states decided not to impose an insurance requirement that the federal government would be without power to legislate and require every individual to buy car insurance?\" For Toobin, this distinction drawn by Sotomayor was the heart of the argument for the case in which she was part of the prevailing majority opinion.\n\nSotomayor was part of a 5–3 majority in \"Arizona v. United States\" (2012), that struck down several aspects of the Arizona SB 1070 anti-illegal immigration law.\n\nOn the Court, Sotomayor has taken positions in favor of an expansive view of the Fourth Amendment protections relating to privacy rights and search and seizure. In \"United States v. Jones\" (2012), all nine justices agreed that a warrant was likely to be required before police could place a GPS tracking device on a suspect's car. Most justices sided with a narrow opinion written by Justice Samuel Alito, but Sotomayor (in a lone concurrence) advocated a more expansive view of privacy rights in a digital age, calling for a re-assessment of the longstanding third-party doctrine: \"It may be necessary to reconsider the premise that an individual has no reasonable expectation of privacy in information voluntarily disclosed to third parties.\" The following year, federal judge Richard J. Leon cited this concurrence in his ruling that the National Security Agency's bulk collection of Americans' telephony records likely violated the Fourth Amendment. Law professors Adam Winkler and Laurence Tribe were among those who said that Sotomayor's \"Jones\" concurrence had been influential in calling out the need for a new basis in understanding privacy requirements in a world, as she wrote, \"in which people reveal a great deal of information about themselves to third parties in the course of carrying out mundane tasks.\" In \"Missouri v. McNeely\" (2013), Sotomayor wrote the majority opinion holding that a warrant is required before police take a nonconsensual blood test of a motorist suspected of drunk driving. In \"Navarette v. California\" (2014), Sotomayor joined Justice Scalia's dissent from an opinion finding no Fourth Amendment violation from a traffic stop and drug seizure based solely on an anonymous tip submitted to 9-1-1. Sotomayor was the lone dissenter in \"Mullenix v. Luna\" (2015), a case in which the Court held, \"per curiam\", that an officer who fired six shots at a fleeing fugitive in a high-speed car chase was entitled to qualified immunity; Sotomayor argued that \"By sanctioning a 'shoot first, think later' approach to policing, the Court renders the protections of the Fourth Amendment hollow.\" In \"Utah v. Strieff\", a case involving the exclusionary rule, Sotomayor wrote a dissent from the Court's ruling that evidence obtained as a result of an illegal police stop could be admitted if the stopped person was later found to have an outstanding traffic warrant, writing that it was a \"remarkable proposition\" that the existence of a warrant could justify a stop illegally based on police officers' \"whim or hunch.\" Echoing her earlier dissent in \"Heien v. North Carolina\" (2014), and citing the works of figures such as W. E. B. Du Bois, James Baldwin, and Ta-Nehisi Coates, Sotomayor wrote that \"Strieff\" and other Supreme Court Fourth Amendment jurisprudence sent the message \"that you are not the citizen of a democracy but the subject of a carceral state, just waiting to be catalogued.\"\n\nIn 2014, Sotomayor dissented from a 6–3 ruling that granted Wheaton College of Illinois, a religiously affiliated university, an exemption from complying with Affordable Care Act (ACA)'s mandate on contraception. The ruling, which came the immediate wake of the Court's 5–4 decision in \"Burwell v. Hobby Lobby\", in which the conservative bloc had prevailed, was opposed by the court's three female members: Sotomayor, Ginsburg and Kagan. Writing in dissent, Sotomayor wrote that the case was at odds with the majority's previous statements in \"Hobby Lobby\" and said, \"Those who are bound by our decisions usually believe they can take us at our word ... Not today.\" Sotomayor stated further her opinion that the decision compromised \"hundreds of Wheaton's employees and students of their legal entitlement to contraceptive coverage.\"\n\nSotomayor was an adjunct professor at New York University School of Law from 1998 to 2007. There she taught trial and appellate advocacy as well as a federal appellate court seminar. Beginning in 1999, she was also a lecturer in law at Columbia Law School in a paying, adjunct faculty position. While there she created and co-taught a class called the Federal Appellate Externship each semester from 2000 until her departure; it combined classroom, moot court, and Second Circuit chambers work. She became a member of the Board of Trustees of Princeton University in 2006, concluding her term in 2011. In 2008, Sotomayor became a member of the Belizean Grove, an invitation-only women's group modeled after the men's Bohemian Grove. On June 19, 2009, Sotomayor resigned from the Belizean Grove after Republican politicians voiced concerns over the group's membership policy.\n\nSotomayor has maintained a public presence, mostly through making speeches, since joining the federal judiciary and throughout her time on the Supreme Court. She gave over 180 speeches between 1993 and 2009, about half of which either focused on issues of ethnicity or gender or were delivered to minority or women's groups. While on the Supreme Court she has been invited to give commencement addresses at a number of universities including New York University (2012), Yale University (2013), and the University of Puerto Rico (2014). Her speeches have tended to give a more defined picture of her worldview than her rulings on the bench. The themes of her speeches have often focused on ethnic identity and experience, the need for diversity, and America's struggle with the implications of its diverse makeup. She has also presented her career achievements as an example of the success of affirmative action policies in university admissions, saying \"I am the perfect affirmative action baby\" in regard to her belief that her admission test scores were not comparable to those of her classmates. During 2012 while already on the Supreme Court, Sotomayor made two appearances as herself on the children's television program \"Sesame Street\", explaining what a vocational career is in general and then demonstrating how a judge hears a case.\n\nSotomayor long lived in Greenwich Village in New York City and had few financial assets other than her home. She enjoys shopping, traveling, and giving gifts and helps support her mother and her mother's husband in Florida. Regarding her short financial disclosure reports prior to her Supreme Court nomination, she has said, \"When you don't have money, it's easy. There isn't anything there to report.\" As a federal judge, she is entitled to a pension equal to her full salary upon retirement. Upon joining the Supreme Court, she took up residence in Washington but sorely missed the faster-paced life of New York. After renting in the Cleveland Park neighborhood for three years, in 2012 she purchased a condominium in the U Street Corridor. She said, \"I picked [that area] because it's mixed. I walk out and I see all kinds of people, which is the environment I grew up in and the environment I love.\"\n\nShe takes several daily insulin injections, and her diabetes is considered to be well controlled. Sotomayor does not belong to a Catholic parish or attend Mass, but does attend church for important occasions. She has said, \"I am a very spiritual person [though] maybe not traditionally religious in terms of Sunday Mass every week, that sort of thing. The trappings are not important to me, but, yes, I do believe in God. And, yes, I do believe in the commandments.\"\n\nShe maintains ties with Puerto Rico, visiting once or twice a year, speaking there occasionally, and visiting cousins and other relatives who still live in the Mayagüez area. She has long stressed her ethnic identity, saying in 1996, \"Although I am an American, love my country and could achieve its opportunity of succeeding at anything I worked for, I also have a Latina soul and heart, with the magic that carries.\"\n\nSotomayor said of the years following her divorce, that \"I have found it difficult to maintain a relationship while I've pursued my career.\" She has talked of herself as \"emotionally withdrawn\" and lacking \"genuine happiness\" when living by herself; after becoming a judge, she said she would not date lawyers. In 1997, she was engaged to New York construction contractor Peter White, but the relationship had ended by 2000.\n\nIn July 2010, Sotomayor signed a contract with Alfred A. Knopf to publish a memoir about the early part of her life. She received an advance of nearly $1.2 million for the work, which was published in January 2013 and titled \"My Beloved World\" (\"Mi mundo adorado\" in the simultaneously published Spanish edition). It focuses on her life up to 1992, with recollections of growing up in housing projects in New York and descriptions of the challenges she faced. It received good reviews, with Michiko Kakutani of \"The New York Times\" describing it as \"a compelling and powerfully written memoir about identity and coming of age. ... It's an eloquent and affecting testament to the triumph of brains and hard work over circumstance, of a childhood dream realized through extraordinary will and dedication.\" She staged a book tour to promote the work, and it debuted atop the \"New York Times\" Best Seller List.\n\nOn December 31, 2013, Sotomayor pressed the ceremonial button and led the final 60-second countdown at the Times Square New Year's Eve ball drop, being the first United States Supreme Court justice to perform the task.\n\nSotomayor has received honorary law degrees from Lehman College (1999), Princeton University (2001), Brooklyn Law School (2001), Pace University School of Law (2003), Hofstra University (2006), Northeastern University School of Law (2007), Howard University (2010), St. Lawrence University (2010), New York University (2012),Yale University (2013), and the University of Puerto Rico at Río Piedras (2014).\n\nShe was elected a member of the American Philosophical Society in 2002. She was given the Outstanding Latino Professional Award in 2006 by the Latino/a Law Students Association. In 2008, \"Esquire\" magazine included Sotomayor on its list of \"The 75 Most Influential People of the 21st Century\". In 2013, Sotomayor won the Woodrow Wilson Award at her alma mater Princeton University.\n\nIn June 2010, the Bronxdale Houses development, where Sotomayor grew up, was renamed after her. The Justice Sonia Sotomayor Houses and Justice Sonia Sotomayor Community Center comprise 28 buildings with some 3,500 residents. While many New York housing developments are named after well-known people, this was only the second to be named after a former resident. In 2011, the Sonia M. Sotomayor Learning Academies, a public high school complex in Los Angeles, was named after her.\n\nIn 2013, a painting featuring her, Sandra Day O'Connor, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and Elena Kagan was unveiled at the Smithsonian's National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn May 2015 she received the Katharine Hepburn medal from Bryn Mawr College.\n\nIn 2019, she was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2095838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095838", "title": "Devinn Lane", "text": "Devinn Lane\n\nDevinn Lane (born March 28, 1972) is a former adult model, pornographic actress, writer, director and producer. She is sometimes credited as Devin Lane or Devon Lane.\n\nLane became pregnant at 16 and began stripping to support herself and her child in 1990. In 1996, while still dancing, she was offered work posing in hard-core men's magazines.\n\nShe made her hardcore film debut in 1999, performing in only lesbian or \"girl/girl\" scenes. She signed an exclusive contract for the production company Wicked Pictures in December 1999. She has directed many films, notably all five installments of \"The Devinn Lane Show\". In 2003, she began performing with men, starting with the final scene in \"The Devinn Lane Show 5: Save The Best For Last\". Over the next two years she performed scenes with men in \"Kink\", \"Lovestruck\", \"Space Nuts\", \"Improper Conduct\", \"Wicked Sex Party 6\", \"Beautiful\", \"Stiletto\", \"Tuff Chick\", two \"Road Trixx\" movies (which she also directed), and \"Lovers Lane\".\n\nAs of 2005, she went on indefinite hiatus from on-screen work, focusing on directing for the production company \"Shane's World\".\n\nHer first producer credit is on the film \"Beautiful/Nasty\" which was nominated for the AVN Award \"Best All-Girl Feature\" in 2002.\n\nIn addition to hardcore work, Lane also hosted Playboy TV's mock reality show \"7 Lives Exposed\", which ran for six seasons until 2007, and has appeared in several softcore films which appear on DVD and on the Cinemax channels.\n\nIn October 2008, Lane filed a copyright infringement lawsuit against Digital Playground, Vivid Entertainment Group, and Moniker Online Services among other entities, alleging that they profited from domain names similar to her performer name and did not compensate her. The defendants in the litigation say it is a frivolous lawsuit and a retaliation action prompted by the ebbing of her career as a contract girl due to her age and diminishing public demand for her services. In February 2009, she dismissed her claims against most of the companies she was suing, leaving only Privacy Protect and Pixel named in the suit. Her attorney declined to comment at the time on why she was dropping those firms.\n\nLane identifies as bisexual. She stated I think the hardest time was coming to terms with my bisexuality. That was probably the hardest thing. I was brought up that I was going to burn for it. Once I got over that and realized I didn't have to live under my family's thumb anymore and that I was an adult and made my own decisions, I sought out the adult industry, being a natural exhibitionist. It just seemed like the right thing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2095839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095839", "title": "Kasumi Ninja", "text": "Kasumi Ninja\n\nKasumi Ninja is a fighting game, developed by Hand Made Software and published by Atari Corporation. Initially it was exclusively for the Atari Jaguar in North America and Europe on December 21, 1994, and was later released in Japan by Messe Sansao on July 1995. It was the first fighting title to be released for the Jaguar, and unsuccessfully sought to capitalize on the trend of ultra violent fighting games started by Midway's \"Mortal Kombat\" in 1992.\n\nWhen the elder ninja Gyaku kills two of his fellow elders through black magic and becomes possessed by a powerful demon after breaking the gate to the underworld, it is up to the player in taking the role from any of the playable characters in order to defeat other opponents before Lord Gyaku destroys the Earth. Being one of the first titles announced for the Jaguar before it was launched to the public in November 1993, \"Kasumi Ninja\" was created by the same company who previously developed \"Dracula the Undead\" for the Atari Lynx in 1991 and had a troubled development process, undergoing through various changes before release. It was also one of the first games to feature a parental lockout system, allowing censorship and limiting the violence displayed during gameplay.\n\n\"Kasumi Ninja\" received mixed to negative reception when it was released. While it received praise for its visuals, critics panned the controls, sound and slow gameplay, with many reviewers calling it a \"Mortal Kombat\" rip-off. By April 1, 1995, the game has sold more than 24,000 copies though it is unknown how many were sold in total during its lifetime and has since been called by some as one of the worst games of all time. A sequel, \"Kasumi Ninja II\", was in development for the Atari Jaguar CD but it was cancelled.\n\n\"Kasumi Ninja\" is a fighting game featuring digitized graphics and sprites with pseudo-3D battlegrounds using parallax scrolling, in which the player fights against other opponents in one-on-one matches. The fighter who manages to deplete the health bar of the opponent wins the first bout and the first to win two bouts becomes the winner of the match. Each round is timed, which can be adjusted at the options menu screen, and if both fighters still have health remaining when time is over, the one with more health wins that round. The game features four levels of difficulty that can be selected on both the main and options menu screen, while also featuring four levels of gore display to choose from on the options menu, with Gore Fest being the highest and the only mode where characters can trigger their respective death moves, among other settings. The game also features a parental lockout system where parents can censor the level of violence displayed during gameplay by entering a six-digit password with the controller's keypad.\n\nIn the single-player mode, only two characters are selectable at the beginning, while more characters are unlocked by defeating the computer in a series of one-on-one matches. If the player manages to defeat all of the opponents in the lowest difficulty, the player will not be able to fight against Gyaku but he can be faced on the Normal difficulty, although his demonic form can only be challenged in the higher difficulties. Depending on the difficulty selected, the player is given a number of continues before getting a game over screen. Similar to \"Mortal Kombat\", special and death moves are performed by holding the C button while pressing the d-pad. The game's blocking system also works similarly to \"Mortal Kombat\", in which the player still receives damage when blocking against physical and projectile attacks. A unique feature of the game is the functionality of the health bar during gameplay, which is a katana and spills blood into the battleground when the character gets damaged. The game also features a two-player versus mode.\n\nThe Kasumi island has spawned some of the most renowned warriors seen in the world, while also remaining hidden from eyes of the modern world within the mist that surrounds it due to Preeminent Celestials, making those who find the place uninvited never being heard from again. Those on the island are trained both in body and spirit at the Dragon Cloud temple by three wise and capable elder ninjas, with each one representing an aspect of humanity and due to the balance of good and evil between them, it allows the gate to the netherworld remain close but one of the eldest ninjas on the island, Gyaku, kills both Hiei and Kaioh, the other two elder ninjas, fracturing the alignment of the cosmic forces and opening the gate to the underworld in the process, resulting in Gyaku becoming possessed by a powerful demon capable of destroying the Earth. As a result, the player takes role of either fighter chosen by the Celestials in order to defeat Lord Gyaku and restore balance to the universe.\n\n\nOriginally codenamed \"Ninja Puncher\" early in development, \"Kasumi Ninja\" was developed by UK-based developer Hand Made Software, who previously developed titles such as \"Dracula the Undead\" on the Atari Lynx and became one of the first titles announced for the then-upcoming Jaguar, featuring a completely different visual style compared to the one featured in the final version and was planned to have a roster of 20 playable characters instead of eight. The reason given in regards to the final character roster by former Hand Made Software producer Jim Gregory is due to meddling from Atari Corporation, removing much of the characters and other elements that were previously developed for the title, in addition of reducing memory size for the game cartridge. The game appeared at both Spring ECTS '94 and SCES '94 in a playable state, now sporting digitized graphics and sprites as with the final release.\n\n\"Kasumi Ninja\" was first released on December 21, 1994 and was later released in Japan by Messe Sansao on July of the next year. Some copies of the game came with a headband accessory branded with the game's logo.\n\nThe game received a mixed-to-negative response from critics. It has been criticized for being a blatant rip-off of \"Mortal Kombat\" (including gameplay, digitized graphics and graphic violence) with poor controls. \"GamePro\" commented that the graphics are technically impressive, but often unpleasant to look at due to aesthetic choices such as the palette swapped characters, the massive blood drops, and Angus's kilt-lifting move. They also criticized the controls, the music, and the announcer's voice, and concluded \"Kasumi's a 64-bit warrior destined to remain in the shadows of deeper 16-bit fighting games.\"\n\n\"Next Generation\" gave it one star out of five, calling it \"a tragic example when good ideas are poorly executed\" and citing \"jerky animation\", \"sluggish control\" and \"baffling gameplay mechanics that discourage close-up fighting\". Conversely, German website \"Atari Inside\" scored it 82%, praising the graphics and gameplay but criticizing the animation. \"ST-Computer\" also reviewed the game positively, giving a score of 80%, with commendations on graphics but low views on animation.\n\nBrazilian magazine \"SuperGamePower\" gave the game 3.5 out of 5 for sharp graphics and large move set. French magazine \"Consoles+\" scored the game 73%, approving the original style in performing moves and option to adjust the amount of blood spilling (although a second reviewer criticized the game's slowness, and that the game's quality is more SNES than Jaguar).\n\nIn a retrospective review, \"AllGame\" praised the game's visuals, but criticized the controller and concluded the game to be no more than \"a horrible cash-in\" \"Mortal Kombat\" clone that \"should be ignored by all but the most devoted 64-bit Atari Jaguar fans.\" \"GamePro\" summarized that \"\"Kasumi Ninja\" was a terrible, terrible Jaguar title - bad controller, bad controls, terrible menu set, forgettable characters, and an utterly unoriginal premise - that, thankfully, history has forgotten.\"\n\nA sequel, \"Kasumi Ninja II\", was in development for the Atari Jaguar CD after the first game was released but it was cancelled after Atari Corp. closed its doors, making Hand Made Software lose money in the process.\n\nIn 2009, Topless Robot ranked it as the fourth worst \"Mortal Kombat\" rip-off. In 2011, UGO.com included it in their list of the 102 worst games of all time. That same year, \"Complex\" called it \"one of the worst Jaguar games ever released in a sea of awful Jaguar games.\" In 2012, \"Complex\" also ranked it as the fourth worst fighting game of all time, adding, \"It was hard choosing amongst \"Ultra Vortek\", \"Fight for Life\", and \"Kasumi Ninja\" for the worst Jaguar fighting game, but we’re going to go with the last one mentioned because it’s probably the most famous. And also the worst.\" \"Kasumi Ninja\" is also listed in \"Digital Press\"'s \"50 Awful Games.\"\n\nIn a 2017 forum post at AtariAge, community member Chriz-B discovered that the introduction, continue and ending screens of the game were taken from Lake Atitlán, Guatemala.\n\n"}
{"id": "2095844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095844", "title": "East Yorkshire (bus company)", "text": "East Yorkshire (bus company)\n\nEast Yorkshire Motor Services (or East Yorkshire) is a bus and coach operator, running services to destinations across Yorkshire, including Bridlington, Hull, Scarborough and York. \n\nIn and around Scarborough, services operate under the \"Scarborough Locals\" brand, having been formerly branded as \"Scarborough & District\". \n\nAdditionally, private hire coach services are operated under the name \"East Yorkshire Coaches\". \n\nEast Yorkshire Motor Services was purchased by the Go-Ahead Group in June 2018, becoming an operating division of Go North East.\n\nIn March 2019, the new \"East Yorkshire\" branding was unveiled, alongside a new logo and corporate livery.\n\nEast Yorkshire Motor Services was originally made up of two companies, Lee & Beaulah, set up by Ernest John Lee, and Hull & District Motor Services, set up by H.A. Harvey.\n\nIn 1926, British Electric Traction bought the two companies, forming East Yorkshire Motor Services.\n\nIn 1968, British Electric Traction was sold to the Transport Holding Company, which in turn, became the National Bus Company in 1969.\n\nUntil 1972, the livery of East Yorkshire was dark blue and primrose. The livery was then changed to blue and white, in the National Bus Company corporate layout. This proved to be short-lived, with the livery being replaced by National Bus Company poppy red.\n\nIn the lead up to privatisation in 1987, East Yorkshire's fleet (which had dropped to 200 vehicles, and shared management with Lincolnshire Road Car) started to grow again.\n\nUnited Automobile Services' depots in Scarborough and Pickering were transferred to East Yorkshire, with operations rebranded as \"Scarborough & District\".\n\nIn February 1987, East Yorkshire was sold in a management buyout, led by seven managers.\n\nFollowing the buyout, East Yorkshire began to expand, acquiring many independent operators in the local area, including Connor & Graham, Cottingham Mini Coaches and Primrose Valley Coaches.\n\nThe liveries at privatisation were silver and blue, National Bus Company poppy red, and the National Bus Company minibus livery of silver, blue and red. The poppy red buses soon started receiving a red and grey livery.\n\nThe Hardwick's of Scarborough fleet was purchased from Wallace Arnold (Wallace Arnold's last bus company).\n\nIn Hull, some AEC Routemaster vehicles entered service in traditional pre-National Bus Company East Yorkshire blue, to compete with Kingston upon Hull City Transport.\n\nEast Yorkshire suffered competition in Bridlington, Hull and Scarborough from Applebys. In 1999, Applebys closed its Scarborough base, and was subsequently placed in to receivership shortly after.\n\nIn 2009, East Yorkshire won the coveted \"Large Bus Operator of the Year\" award (an award for bus operators running over 100 buses), at a presentation dinner attended by over 600 people from the bus and coach industry. \n\nThe award event was held by \"RouteOne\", one of the industry's main national trade magazines.\n\nThe company has also reached the final of the \"Large Bus Operator of the Year\" award in subsequent years (2011, 2013 and 2014). \n\nEast Yorkshire's first out-of-area expansion was in 1992, with the purchase of Finglands Coachways of Rusholme, with the original Stagecoach Manchester operation following in 1995. \n\nIn August 2013, First announced that subject to regulatory approval by the Office of Fair Trading, it had agreed to purchase the bus operations of Finglands Coachways. The sale included the lease of Finglands's depot in Rusholme, as well as routes, and approximately 100 members of staff, but no vehicles.\n\nThe deal was approved in January 2014, with First Greater Manchester taking over on operations in February 2014.\n\nIn October 2013, East Yorkshire sold the Finglands coach charter business to Bullocks Coaches.\n\nWhittle Bus & Coach of Kidderminster was acquired by East Yorkshire in January 2004. This was the second major out-of-area acquisition for East Yorkshire, since the management buyout in February 1987. \n\nThe business operated 50 vehicles at the time of purchase, running bus services in predominantly rural areas in the counties of Shropshire and Worcestershire.\n\nIn December 2014, the Whittles coach business was sold to Johnsons Coach & Bus Travel, along with nine coaches.\n\nFollowing the sale, the operation of National Express contracted services were transferred to other operators, with local bus services being withdrawn entirely in January 2015.\n\nIn June 2018, East Yorkshire was acquired by Go-Ahead, bringing an end to 30 years of family ownership. East Yorkshire will continue to run as a standalone company within Go North East.\n\nIn late October 2018, £1 million was invested in new Ticketer smart ticketing machines, with the ability to accept contactless payments.\n\nIn March 2019, a new livery and corporate branding was announced. The new livery is an evolution of the well known burgundy and cream colour scheme.\n\nUnder the changes, the trading name for the business became \"East Yorkshire\", with a new typeface, and the white rose of Yorkshire replacing the letter O, to form part of the logo.\n\nThe new \"East Yorkshire\" brand was launched at an event at Hull City Football Club's KCOM Stadium, with two buses displayed in the new livery.\n\nCoaches are operated for hire, day trips and short holidays, with services running under the \"East Yorkshire Coaches\" name.\n\nEast Yorkshire Coaches also traded as \"Frodingham Coaches\" between November 2001 and October 2007, following the purchase of the company.\n\nThe previous coaching operation, \"East Yorkshire Travel\", was once a nationwide operator, but was sold to the Godfrey Burley Group in 1996.\n\nEast Yorkshire is also a National Express contractor, operating a number of routes to destinations across the country.\n\nA large part of the East Yorkshire fleet is made up of vehicles manufactured by Alexander Dennis and Volvo. As of December 2016, the fleet consists of 316 buses and coaches.\n\nIn May 2015, East Yorkshire was the first operator to take delivery of a MCV EvoSeti. Following further deliveries in January and September 2017, an additional 18 vehicles were added to the fleet.\n\nA heritage fleet is maintained by East Yorkshire, consisting of a Leyland PD2 open-top, and a Willowbrook bodied AEC Regent.\n\nAs of March 2020, East Yorkshire operate from six bus depots:\n\n\n\nEast Yorkshire formerly operated \"Moorsbus\" services from the Hull depot, with the two duties usually operating with Wright Eclipse bodied Volvo B7RLE vehicles. In 2013, these services were withdrawn, following the withdrawal of funding for \"Moorsbus\" services.\n\nIn early 2014, East Yorkshire registered service ME1, \"Moors Explorer\", which replaced the previous M13 and M14 services running from Hull.\n\nThe new \"Moors Explorer\" ME1 service runs from Hessle, Hull, Cottingham and Beverley to Pickering, Kirkbymoorside and Danby, closely following the old route. The service is being run on a commercial basis by East Yorkshire, and has proved very popular with both local residents, as well as visitors to the North York Moors.\n\nEast Yorkshire was the subject of an eight-part documentary series, \"On The Yorkshire Buses\". The documentary originally aired on Channel 5 in July 2014, and was narrated by Simon Farnaby. \n\n"}
{"id": "2095875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095875", "title": "1941 Manitoba general election", "text": "1941 Manitoba general election\n\nThe 1941 Manitoba general election was held on April 22, 1941 to elect Members of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Manitoba, Canada.\n\nThis election was held shortly after the formation of a coalition government in December 1940. The coalition was created after the start of World War II, as a display of unity among the different parties in the legislature.\n\nPremier John Bracken's Liberal-Progressives were the dominant force in government, while the Conservative Party under Errick Willis held a secondary position. The smaller Co-operative Commonwealth Federation and Social Credit League were also included in the government, and had cabinet representation.\n\nThe four coalition parties were the only legal political parties in Manitoba in 1941. The Communist Party had been declared illegal the previous year, and its only Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA), James Litterick, was expelled from the legislature and forced into hiding.\n\nWhen the coalition was created, Independent MLA Lewis Stubbs was the only legislator who did not join the government side. He claimed that a healthy opposition was necessary in a parliamentary democracy, and rejected offers to join the government. Later, Social Credit MLA Salome Halldorson and Conservatives Huntly Ketchen and John Poole also crossed to the opposition.\n\nThe coalition's victory was a foregone conclusion: in most constituencies, there were no anti-coalition candidates. The opposition came mostly from anti-coalition dissidents in the governing parties. These candidates did not run a coordinated campaign, and did not seriously threaten the government.\n\nThe Social Credit League split before the election, and most of its candidates campaigned against the coalition. The party's most prominent MLAs, however, remained on the government side.\n\nIn some constituencies, the coalition parties ran candidates against one other. This had little effect on the overall result, though it did influence the relative strength of the coalition partners after the election. In most instances, the incumbent candidates were re-elected. The CCF agreed to limit its challenges against incumbent members, although this courtesy was not always reciprocated by other parties.\n\nAs expected, the coalition won a landslide victory. The government parties, along with pro-coalition independents, won 50 of the 55 seats in the legislature.\n\nThe election confirmed the Liberal-Progressives and Conservatives as the dominant parties in government. The Liberal-Progressives increased their representation from 23 MLAs to 27, only two short of an overall majority. The Conservatives were not as successful, falling from 16 seats to 12. The party remained influential in cabinet, however, and its leadership remained committed to the coalition.\n\nFor the CCF and Social Credit, the results were more problematic. Many CCF members had opposed the coalition, and the party had difficulty mobilizing its supporters to the polls. The CCF won only two seats in their Winnipeg stronghold, and also retained the Gimli constituency for a total of three seats. John Queen, the CCF Mayor of Winnipeg, lost the legislative seat he had held since 1920.\n\nAfter this result, the CCF's tenure in government was brief. Farmer left the coalition ministry in late 1942, and the party formally voted to leave the coalition at its 1943 convention. Many CCF officials later described their period in the coalition as a disaster for the party.\n\nThe result was perhaps even worse for Social Credit, which lost its internal cohesion during the campaign. All of the party's anti-coalition candidates were defeated, while three pro-government incumbents were re-elected. These MLAs effectively became an adjunct of the government, and did little in the way of promoting party policy. The Manitoba Social Credit League was marginalized in the 1940s, and did not become a functioning party again until 1953.\n\nFive pro-coalition independents were also elected.\n\nThe five anti-coalition MLAs consisted of three dissident Conservatives (one of whom later rejoined the government), independent Lewis Stubbs, and Bill Kardash. Kardash, who campaigned as a \"Worker's candidate\", was widely known to be associated with the banned Communist Party. He did not proclaim this association openly, however, and was able to take his seat without a legal challenge.\n\nThree Sound Money Economics System candidates also ran in Winnipeg. All fared poorly, and the group disappeared soon after the election.\n\n\nArthur:\n\nAssiniboia:\n\nBeautiful Plains:\n\nBirtle:\n\nBrandon:\n\nCarillon:\n\nCypress:\n\nDauphin:\n\nDeloraine:\n\nDufferin:\n\nEmerson:\n\nEthelbert:\n\nFairford:\n\nFisher:\n\nGilbert Plains:\n\nGimli:\n\nGladstone:\n\nGlenwood:\n\nHamiota:\n\nIberville:\n\nKildonan & St. Andrews:\n\nKillarney:\n\nLakeside:\n\nLansdowne:\n\nLa Verendrye:\n\nManitou:\n\nMinnedosa:\n\nMorden-Rhineland:\n\n[Miller was subsequently elected on transfers.]\n\nMorris:\n\nMountain:\n\nNorfolk:\n\nPortage la Prairie:\n\nRoblin:\n\nRockwood:\n\nRupertsland:\n\nRussell:\n\nSt. Boniface:\n\nAccording to the \"Winnipeg Free Press\", Clarke defeated Hansford by 701 votes on the last count.\n\nSt. Clements:\n\nSt. George:\n\nSte. Rose:\n\nSpringfield:\n\nThe \"Winnipeg Free Press\" gives the final count result as: Shannon 2284, McLeod 2238.\n\nSwan River:\n\nThe Pas:\n\nTurtle Mountain:\n\nVirden:\n\nWinnipeg:\n\nFirst Count (quota: 5335 votes; McDiarmid and Stubbs declared elected)\n\nSecond Count (McDiarmid surplus; Smith declared elected)\n\nThird Count (Stubbs surplus)\n\nFourth Count (Smith surplus)\n\nFifth Count (McConochie eliminated)\n\nSixth Count (Downes eliminated)\n\nSeventh Count (Evans eliminated)\n\nEighth Count (Hrynlewlecki eliminated)\n\nNinth Count (Elliott eliminated)\n\nTenth Count (Simpkin eliminated)\n\nEleventh Count (Cowan eliminated)\n\nTwelfth Count (Oddson eliminated)\n\nThirteenth Count (Regnier eliminated)\n\nFourteenth Count (Dysart eliminated)\n\nFifteenth Count (Ivens eliminated)\nSixteenth Count (Dick eliminated; Ketchen declared elected)\nSeventeenth Count (Tobias eliminated)\nEighteenth Count (Warriner eliminated)\nEighteenth Count (Knowles eliminated)\n\nNineteenth Count (Barry eliminated; Thorvaldson, Kardash, Krawchuk, Bardal, Farmer and Gray declared elected)\n\nTwentieth Count (Queen eliminated; final positioning determined)\n\nThe first ballot results for Winnipeg and results for all other constituencies are taken from an official Manitoba government publication entitled \"Manitoba elections, 1920-1941\", cross-referenced with the 1942 Canadian Parliamentary Guide and the \"Historical Statement of Votes\" section of the 2003 provincial election report. Unfortunately, the second-ballot results are not listed in these sources.\n\nAll ballot results for Winnipeg after the first count are taken from reports in the Winnipeg Free Press newspaper. It is possible that some errors appeared in the original publication.\n\nJohn Poole appears to have returned to the coalition shortly after the election. The CCF left the governing coalition in 1943.\n\nDufferin (dec. John Munn, 1941), June 22, 1943:\n\nKillarney (dec. John Laughlin, 1941), June 22, 1943:\n\nThe Pas (res. John Bracken, January 15, 1943), August 17, 1943:\n\nBrandon (dec. George Dinsdale, 1943), November 18, 1943:\n\nPortage la Prairie (dec. William Sexsmith, 1943), November 18, 1943:\n\nWinnipeg (dec. Stephen Krawchyk, 1943)\n\nSt. Boniface (dec. Austin Clarke, 1945)\n\nMorden-Rhineland (res. Wallace Miller, 1945\n\nDwight Johnson and Beresford Richards were expelled from the CCF caucus in 1945.\n"}
{"id": "2095887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095887", "title": "Mike Teague", "text": "Mike Teague\n\nMichael Clive Teague (born 8 October 1960) is a former England and British Lions rugby union footballer.\n\nTeague was born and raised on a farm a few miles outside Gloucester. He attended Churchdown School.\n\nTeague married his long term fiancee Lorraine in August 1989 after the British Lions tour to Australia, with his Gloucester back row colleague John Gadd as his best man. Teague also enjoys motorbike scrambling.\n\nTeague spent his youth in The Shed watching Gloucester. After cutting his teeth with the local All Blues club, Teague joined the Cherry and Whites during the 1978–79 season aged 18 making 4 appearances, his debut coming at Kingsholm against Exeter University on 15/11/1978 in which he scored a try in a comfortable victory. He combined his rugby with his career as a fitter for the local water authority before becoming a builder in what was the amateur era, eventually setting up his own building firm with his brother-in-law. Known to Gloucester fans as 'Iron Mike' he played the majority of his club rugby for his home town club, but also had brief spells at Cardiff RFC for half a season and Stroud RFC with his close friend and Gloucester back row colleague John Gadd, before re-joining Gloucester on both occasions. During the later years of his senior rugby career he played for Moseley, before re-joining Gloucester once again to see out his playing days. Teague made a total of 291 appearances for Gloucester, winning the John Player Cup in 1982 (although they had to share the title with Moseley after a 12-12 draw in extra time – the only time the cup has ever been shared) and the John Smith's Merit Table in the 1985–1986 season. He was twice a runner up with Gloucester in National Courage League 1 (now the Premiership) in both the 1988–89 and 1989–90 seasons. He also played in the 1990 Pilkington Cup final defeat to Bath, scoring a try in both the 26-16 quarter final away win over Nottingham and the 17-12 semi final away win over Northampton that secured Gloucesters spot in the Twickenham showpiece. During the 1981–82 season he scored 21 tries, which remains the club's record for most tries scored by a forward in one season. He was sent off 3 times during his playing career, two of those red cards coming against local rivals Bath. His last game for Gloucester was against Harlequins at Kingsholm at the end of the 1994/95 season aged 34. At the start of the 1995–96 season Teague was appointed to the newly created post of team manager of the Gloucester first team.\n\nTeague was selected to represent Gloucestershire on a number of occasions, starting on the bench against Somerset at Twickenham in the 1984 county championship final, which Gloucestershire won 36-18. Other notable games he was involved in for Gloucestershire include starting on the bench in the 1981–82 county championship semi final defeat to Lancashire at Kingsholm, starting on the bench in the 1982–83 county championship semi final victory over Surrey at the Memorial Ground, Bristol and starting at blind side flanker in the 1984–85 county championship semi final defeat to Nottinghamshire, Lincolnshire and Derbyshire at the Memorial Ground, Bristol.\nTeague was also selected to represent the South West Division on a number of occasions.\n\nTeague represented England at Under 23 level before playing his first England B game in the 20-10 win over France B in November 1981, winning a place in the England trial the following month. Teague made his test debut on 2 February 1985 aged 24, in the then five nations, as a substitute for Jon Hall in a 9-9 draw against at Twickenham. He was then selected for England's final game of the tournament against Wales but the match was called off due to icy conditions and John Hall won his place back for the re-arranged fixture. Teague made his full test début on the summer tour of New Zealand the same year, playing in both test matches. He was not selected to represent England at any level for a further three years before playing for England B against Russia in 1988, eventually re-gaining his place in the full England team in a 12-12 draw with in the 1989 five nations. In order to bulk up and regain his place in the England team he trained every day with body builders in the local gym, as well as doing 'Mad Dog' training with Gloucester. That involved hill running, often at three-quarter pace, carrying logs and rocks. It was intense and he had to find the time for daily training between his work as a builder. He went on to play in 3 matches during the 1990 five nations and was a key member of England's Grand Slam team of 1991, scoring the only try in England's 25-6 win against Wales in Cardiff on 19 January, England's first win in Cardiff for 28 years, as well as scoring against Ireland in England's victory in Dublin. In the same year he helped England reach the World Cup final, playing in five of England's six matches including the final, a narrow 12-6 defeat to Australia at Twickenham. The world cup final was his last appearance for a year; he sat out the 1992 Five Nations suffering from injury and exhaustion. However, he would reappear in England colours, playing against South Africa on their return to Twickenham after the sporting embargo had been lifted. His final England cap was against Ireland at Lansdowne Road in the 5 nations in 1993. second row Paul Ackford christened Teague 'Iron Mike' at the time when Mike Tyson was world heavyweight champion. Teague played 27 times for his country, 19 times as blindside flanker and 8 times at number 8. He scored a total of 3 tries for England against New Zealand in Christchurch on 1 June 1985, Wales in Cardiff on 19 January 1991 and Ireland in Dublin on 2 March 1991.\n\nBelow is his international record for England:\n\nTeague was selected for the Lions tour to Australia in 1989. Teague had drifted out of the picture for until coming back into Lions contention as an ever-present for his country in 1988–89, only for a shoulder injury to rule him out of the first test. Without the injured Mike Teague for the opening test, the Lions suffered a 30-12 defeat in Sydney, their heaviest defeat by Australia. With the England loose-forward restored to the pack for the final two matches as the blindside flanker, they became the only Lions team ever to come from 1-0 down to win a series, winning the second test in Brisbane 19-12 and the third test in Sydney 19-18. Teague was named player of the series for his dynamic and destructive displays in the second and third tests.\n\nDuring the 1989 British Lions tour to Australia, Teague played a total of six games for the tourists. These games were:\n\n\nTeague finished his international career by making a second Lions tour to New Zealand in 1993, making his last international appearance as a substitute in the Lions 20-7 victory over New Zealand in Wellington on 26 June 1993. The Lions were unbeaten in all three tests Teague played for them during his career.\n\nDuring the 1993 British Lions tour to New Zealand, Teague played a total of eight games for the tourists, scoring one try against Taranaki. These games were:\n\n\nTeague was also selected to play for the Barbarians. He played a total of six games for the invitational side:\n\n\nIn 1989 Teague toured South Africa with a World XV. He started in the first of two IRB sanctioned tests played against South Africa to celebrate the centenary of the South African Rugby Board (SARB), a 20-19 defeat for the tourists at Newlands on 26 August 1989.\n\nTeague has opened two pubs with his brother Gary, one directly opposite Kingsholm Stadium in Gloucester and one more recently in nearby Cheltenham, both called Teagues Bar. At Teagues Bar in Gloucester there is a section devoted to his Lions tour in 1989 when he was named player of the series, along with programmes, jerseys, boots, balls and photographs of Gloucester teams dating back to the 1800s. He now divides his time between running the pub and developing property.\n\n"}
{"id": "2095897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095897", "title": "Late Night Tales: Four Tet", "text": "Late Night Tales: Four Tet\n\nLate Night Tales: Four Tet is a DJ mix album compiled by Kieran Hebden, who goes by the pseudonym Four Tet. It is part of the Late Night Tales/Another Late Night compilation series.\n\n"}
{"id": "2095916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095916", "title": "Alexandra Holden", "text": "Alexandra Holden\n\nAlexandra Paige Holden (born April 30, 1977) is an American actress. Her credits include films such as \"Drop Dead Gorgeous\" (1999) and \"The Hot Chick\" (2002), and recurring roles on \"Friends\", \"Ally McBeal\", \"Friday Night Lights\", \"Franklin & Bash\", and \"Rizzoli & Isles\"\n\nHolden was born April 30, 1977 in Northfield, Dakota County, Minnesota, daughter of Barry Holden and wife Kristi. Holden is of Scandinavian descent.\n\nShe made her feature film debut in the 1997 drama \"The Last Time I Committed Suicide\". Subsequent film roles include: \"In & Out\" (1997), \"Drop Dead Gorgeous\" (1999), \"Sugar & Spice\" (2001), \"The Hot Chick\" (2002), and \"In a World...\" (2013). She also starred in the horror films \"Wishcraft\" (2002), \"Dead End\", (2003), \"Dark Reel\" (2008), and \"Lovely Molly\" (2012).\n\nOn television, Holden appeared in several episodes of \"Friends\" as Ross's girlfriend, Elizabeth Stevens (2000), and has had recurring roles on \"Ally McBeal\" (2001), \"Friday Night Lights\" (2007), \"Franklin & Bash\" (2011), and \"Rizzoli & Isles\" (2012–14). Other TV credits include: \"Six Feet Under\", \"Tru Calling\", \"Grey's Anatomy\", \"Private Practice\", \"Cold Case\", \"The Mentalist\", \"Covert Affairs\", \"Bones\", \"NCIS\", and \"\". She also appeared in the critically acclaimed miniseries \"Uprising\" (2001).\n\nIn 1997, Holden appeared in Aerosmith's \"Hole in My Soul\" music video.\n\nShe was married on December 10, 1997 to Johnny Strong, but they have since divorced.\n\n"}
{"id": "2095922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095922", "title": "National Severe Storms Laboratory", "text": "National Severe Storms Laboratory\n\nThe National Severe Storms Laboratory (NSSL) is a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) weather research laboratory under the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research. It is one of seven NOAA Research Laboratories (RLs).\n\nNSSL studies weather radar, tornadoes, flash floods, lightning, damaging winds, hail, and winter weather out of Norman, Oklahoma, using various techniques and tools in their HWT, or Hazardous Weather Testbed. NSSL meteorologists developed the first doppler radar for the purpose of meteorological observation, and contributed to the development of the NEXRAD (WSR-88D).\n\nNSSL has a partnership with the Cooperative Institute for Mesoscale Meteorological Studies (CIMMS) at the University of Oklahoma that enables collaboration and participation by students and visiting scientists in performing research. The Lab also works closely with the Storm Prediction Center (SPC) and the National Weather Service Norman Forecast Office, which are co-located at the National Weather Center (NWC) in Norman, Oklahoma. The NWC houses a combination of University of Oklahoma, NOAA and state organizations that work in collaboration.\n\nIn 1962 a research team from the United States Weather Bureau's National Severe Storms Project (NSSP) moved from Kansas City, Missouri to Norman, Oklahoma, where, in 1956, the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory had installed a 3 cm continuous-wave Doppler Weather Surveillance Radar-1957 (WSR-57). This radar was designed to detect very high wind speeds in tornadoes, but could not determine the distance to the tornadoes. In 1963, the Weather Radar Laboratory (WRL) was established in Norman and, in the following year, engineers modified the radar to transmit in pulses. The pulse-Doppler radar could receive data in between each transmit pulse, eliminating the need for two antennas and solving the distance problem.\n\nIn 1964, the remainder of the NSSP moved to Norman, where it merged with WRL and was renamed the National Severe Storms Laboratory (NSSL). Dr. Edwin Kessler became the first director. In 1969, NSSL obtained a surplus 10-cm pulse-Doppler radar from the United States Air Force. This radar was used to scan and film the complete life cycle of a tornado in 1973. By comparing the film with velocity images from the radar, the researchers found a pattern that showed the tornado beginning to form before it could be visually detected on the film. The researchers named this phenomenon the Tornado Vortex Signature (TVS). Research using this radar led to the concept that would later go on to become the NWS NEXRAD WSR-88D radar network.\nIn 1973, the Laboratory commissioned a second Doppler weather radar, named the Cimarron radar, located west of Oklahoma City. This enabled NSSL to perform dual Doppler experiments while scanning storms with both radars simultaneously.\nA deliberate decision to collocate research with operations led the National Severe Storms Forecast Center to move from Kansas City to Norman in 1997, changing its name to the Storm Prediction Center. This move would allow for improved collaborations between NSSL and SPC. Some three years later in 2000, the first NOAA Hazardous Weather Testbed (HWT) Spring Experiment took place. This would become an annual event to evaluate operational and experimental models and algorithms with the NWS.\n\nNSSL is organized into three primary divisions:\n\nForecasting a Continuum of Environmental Threats (FACETs) serves as a broad-based framework and strategy to help focus and direct efforts related to next-generation science, technology and tools for forecasting environmental hazards. FACETS will address grid-based probabilistic threats, storm-scale observations and guidance, the forecaster, threat grid tools, useful output, effective response, and verification.\n\nThe Warn-on-Forecast (WoF) research project aims to deliver a set of technologies for FACETs on a variety of space and time scales. WoF aims to create computer-model projections that accurately predict storm-scale phenomena such as tornadoes, large hail, and extremely localized rainfall. If Warn-on-Forecast is successful, forecasts likely could improve lead time by factors of 2 to 4 times.\n\nThe Weather Research and Forecast (WRF) model is the product of a collaboration between the meteorological research and forecasting communities. Working at the interface between research and operations, NSSL scientists have been some of the main contributors to WRF development efforts and continue to provide operational implementation and testing of WRF. The NSSL WRF generates daily, real-time 1- to 36-hour experimental forecasts at a 4 km resolution of\nprecipitation, lightning threat, and more.\n\nWoF Tornado Threat Prediction (WoF-TTP) is a research project to develop a 0–1 hour, 1-km resolution suite of high detail\ncomputer models to forecast individual convective storms and their tornadic potential. Target future average lead-time for tornado warnings via WoF-TTP is 40–60 minutes. The technology and science developed to achieve the WoF-TTP goal hopes to improve the prediction\nof other convective weather threats such as large hail and damaging winds.\n\nNSSL's Mesoscale Ensemble (NME) is an experimental analysis and short-range ensemble forecast system. These forecasts are designed to be used by forecasters as a 3-D hourly analysis of the environment.\n\nThe National Mosaic and Multi-sensor Quantitative Precipitation Estimation (NMQ) system uses a combination of observing systems ranging from radars to satellites on a national scale to produce precipitation forecasts. NMQ's prototype QPE products are also known as “Q2” - next-generation products combining the most effective multi-sensor techniques to estimate precipitation.\n\nNSSL scientists helped develop the Weather Surveillance Radar - 1988 Doppler (WSR-88D) radars, also known as NEXt-generation RADar (NEXRAD). Since the first Doppler weather radar became operational in Norman in 1974, NSSL has worked to extend its functionality, and proved to the NOAA National Weather Service (NWS) that Doppler weather radar was important as a nowcasting tool. The NWS now has a network of 158 NEXRADs.\n\nDual-polarized (dual-pol) radar technology is truly a NOAA-wide accomplishment. NSSL spent nearly 30 years researching and developing the technology. The National Weather Service (NWS) and NSSL developed the specifications for the modification, which was tested by engineers at the NWS Radar Operations Center. The NWS Warning Decision Training Branch provided timely and relevant training to all NWS forecasters who would be using the technology.\nThe upgraded radars offer 14 new radar products to better determine the type and intensity of precipitation, and can confirm tornadoes are on the ground causing damage. Dual-pol is the most significant enhancement made to the nation's radar network since Doppler radar was first installed in the early 1990s.\n\nMore than 350 FAA radars and by 2025, nearly 150 of the nation's Doppler weather radars will need to be either replaced or have their service life extended. Phased array radars have been used by the military for many years to track aircraft. NSSL's MPAR program is investigating to see if both the aircraft surveillance and weather surveillance functions can be combined into one radar. Combining the operational requirements of these various radar systems with a single technology solution would result in fiscal savings, and lesser resources with a greater end result.\n\nNSSL researchers teamed up with several universities to build a mobile Doppler radar: a Doppler radar mounted on the back of a truck. The mobile radar can be driven into position as a storm is developing to scan the atmosphere at low levels, below the beam of WSR-88D radars. NSSL has used mobile radars to study tornadoes, hurricanes, dust storms, winter storms, mountain rainfall, and even biological phenomena.\n\nForecasting a Continuum of Environmental Threats (FACETs) serves as a broad-based framework and strategy to help focus and direct efforts related to next-generation science, technology and tools for \nforecasting environmental hazards. FACETs will address grid-based probabilistic threats, storm-scale observations and guidance, the forecaster, threat grid tools, useful output, effective response, and verification.\n\nThe Multi-Year Reanalysis Of Remotely-Sensed Storms (MYRORSS – pronounced “mirrors”) NSSL and the National Climatic Data Center (NCDC) to reconstruct and evaluate numerical model output and radar products derived from 15 years of WSR-88D data over the coterminous U.S. (CONUS). The end result of this research will be a rich dataset with a diverse range of applications, including severe weather diagnosis and climatological information.\n\nNOAA's Hazardous Weather Testbed (HWT) is jointly managed by NSSL, the Storm Prediction Center (SPC) and the National Weather Service Oklahoma City/Norman Weather Forecast Office (OUN) on the University of Oklahoma campus inside the National Weather Center. The HWT is designed to accelerate the transition of promising new \nmeteorological insights and technologies into advances in forecasting and warning for hazardous mesoscale weather events throughout the United States.\n\nOne of the new warning methodologies being tested in the NOAA Hazardous Weather Testbed is the “Threats-In-Motion” (TIM) concept. TIM warning grids update every minute and move continuously with the path of the storm. TIM has the advantage of providing useful lead times for all locations downstream of the hazards, and continually removes the warning from areas where threat has already passed.\n\nThe Flooded Locations And Simulated Hydrographs Project (FLASH) was launched in early 2012 to improve the accuracy and timing of flash flood warnings. FLASH uses forecast models, geographic information, and real-time high-resolution, accurate rainfall observations from the NMQ/Q2 project to produce flash flood forecasts at 1-km/5-min resolution. FLASH \nproject development continues to be an active collaboration between members of NSSL's Stormscale Hydrometeorology and Hydromodeling Groups, and the HyDROS Lab at the University of Oklahoma.\n\nThe Coastal and Inland Flooding Observation and Warning (CI-FLOW) project is a demonstration projection that predicts the combined effects of coastal and inland floods for coastal North Carolina. CI-FLOW captures the complex interaction between rainfall, river flows, waves, and tides and storm surge, and how they will impact ocean and river water levels. NSSL, with support from the NOAA National Sea Grant, leads the large and unique interdisciplinary team.\n\nIn an effort to support NWS forecasters, NSSL investigates methods and techniques to diagnose severe weather events more quickly and accurately.\n\nNSSL has more than ten NWS workstations—the Advanced Weather Interactive Processing System 2 (AWIPS2)—available for use in product evaluation. NSSL uses these AWIPS2 stations to test and demonstrate warning products and techniques that have been developed here that will be available in the NWS Forecast Office in the future.\n\nIn the 1990s, NSSL developed the Warning Decision Support System, to enhance NWS warning capabilities. NSSL continues to work on the next generation WDSS-II (Warning Decision Support System: Integrated Information/NMQ), a tool that quickly combines data streams from multiple radars, surface and upper air observations, lightning detection systems, and satellite \nand forecast models. This improved and expanded system will eventually \nbe moved to National Weather Service operations as the Multi-Radar Multi-Sensor (MRMS) system, and will automatically produce severe weather and precipitation products for improved decision-making capability within NOAA.\n\nNSSL: On-Demand is a web-based tool based on WDSS-II that helps confirm when and where severe weather occurred by mapping radar-detected circulations or hail on Google Earth satellite images. National Weather Service (NWS) forecast offices, including those affected by the April 27, 2011 tornado outbreak, use the images to plan post event damage surveys. Emergency responders use On-Demand to produce high-resolution street maps of affected areas, so they can more effectively begin rescue and recovery efforts and damage assessments.\n\nNSSL's Development Lab includes four wall-mounted plasma screen displays\nand enough room for at least 10 workstations. A large round table occupies the middle of the room for lunchtime “brown bag” discussions and other meetings. Researchers, forecasters and developers are using the lab to evaluate new platforms and techniques in real-time as a team. The workstations in the lab can be quickly adapted for visualization and incorporation of unique data sources including dual-pol and phased array radars.\n\nNSSL created a powerful research and development tool for the creation of new techniques, strategies and applications to better estimate and forecast precipitation amounts, locations and types. The National Mosaic and Multi-sensor Quantitative Precipitation Estimation system (NMQ) uses a combination of observing systems ranging from radars to satellites on a national scale to produce precipitation forecasts.\n\nThe MRMS system is the proposed operational version of the Warning Decision Support System - Integrated Information (WDSS-II) and the National Mosaic Quantitative Precipitation Estimation system.\n\nMRMS is a system with automated algorithms that quickly and intelligently integrate data streams from multiple radars, surface and upper air observations, lightning detection systems, and satellite and forecast models. Numerous two-dimensional multiple-sensor products offer assistance for hail, wind, tornado, quantitative precipitation estimation forecasts, convection, icing, and turbulence diagnosis.The MRMS system was developed to produce severe weather and precipitation products for improved decision-making capability to improve severe weather forecasts and warnings, hydrology, aviation, and numerical weather prediction.\n\nA weather-adaptive three-dimensional variational data assimilation (3DVAR) system from NSSL/CIMMS automatically detects and analyzes supercell thunderstorms. The 3DVAR system uses data from the national WSR-88D radar network and NCEP's North American Mesoscale model product to automatically locate regions of thunderstorm activity. It is able to identify deep rotating updrafts that indicate a supercell thunderstorm at 1 km resolution every five minutes in these regions.\n\nNSSL participates in field research projects to collect weather data to increase knowledge about thunderstorm behavior and thunderstorm hazards.\n\nPECAN was an extensive field project that focused on nighttime convection. PECAN was conducted across northern Oklahoma, central Kansas and into south-central Nebraska from 1 June to 15 July 2015.\n\nNSSL participated in the Verification of the Origins of Rotation in Tornadoes EXperiment 2009-2010, an extensive project studying small scale kinematics, atmospheric variables and when and why tornadoes form. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and National Science Foundation (NSF) supported more than 100 scientists, students and staff from around the world to collect weather measurements around and under thunderstorms that could produce tornadoes.\n\nThe Verification of the Origins of Rotation in Tornadoes EXperiment was a two-year project designed to verify a number of ongoing questions about the causes of tornado formation. A new mobile Doppler radar was used and provided revolutionary data on several tornadic storms.\n\nThe TOtable TOrnado Observatory (TOTO), developed by NOAA Environmental Research Laboratory scientists, was a 55-gallon barrel outfitted with anemometers, pressure sensors, and humidity sensors, along with devices to record the data. In theory, a team would roll TOTO out of the back of the pickup in the path of a tornado, switch on the instruments, and get out of the way. Several groups tried to deploy TOTO over the years, but never took a direct hit. The closest TOTO ever came to success was in 1984 when it was sideswiped by the edge of a weak tornado and was knocked over. TOTO was retired in 1987.\n\nAircraft flew into thunderstorms to measure turbulence in the 1960s, 1970s and early 1980s. This data was combined with measurements of the intensity of the rain from nearby WSR-57s to understand how thunderstorm echoes and turbulence are related, with the goal of improving short-term turbulence forecasts.\n\nScientists and technicians from NSSL and the University of Oklahoma built their first Mobile Mesonet (MM) vehicles, a.k.a. “probes,” in 1992. Probes are modified minivans with a suite of weather instruments mounted atop a roof rack and a complex of computer and communication equipment inside. NSSL scientists drive these through storms and storm environments to make measurements of temperature, pressure, humidity and wind.\n\nNSSL's 2DVD takes high speed video pictures, from two different angles, of anything falling from the sky through its viewing area (such as raindrops, hail or snow). It is used in polarimetric radar studies by measuring rain rate, drop shape and size distribution, and other parameters useful in narrowing down the accuracy of precipitation identification algorithms.\n\nNSSL has available small portable weather platforms with sensors that measure temperature, pressure, moisture, wind speed and direction, and an instrument called a Parsivel (PARticle, SIze, VELocity) disdrometer. These can be deployed quickly in the field, in and around thunderstorms.\n\nNSSL launches special research weather balloon systems into thunderstorms. Measurements from the sensor packages attached to the balloons provide data about conditions inside the storm where it has often proved too dangerous for research aircraft to fly.\n\nPASIV is a balloon-borne instrument designed to capture images of water and ice particles as it is launched into, and rises up through, a thunderstorm. The instrument is flown as part of a “train” of other instruments connected one after another to a balloon. These other instruments measure electrical field strength and direction, and other variables such as temperature, dewpoint, pressure and winds.\n\nNSSL has a mobile, trailer-based boundary layer profiling facility using commercially available sensors. CLAMPS\ncontains a Doppler lidar, a multi-channel microwave radiometer, and an \nAtmospheric Emitted Radiance Interferometer (AERI). CLAMPS meets a NOAA/NWS operational and research need of for profiles of temperature, humidity, and winds near the surface of the earth.\n\nNSSL's Field Observing Facilities and Support group (FOFS)\nis responsible for a device called an Electric Field Meter (EFM) that is attached, along with other instruments, to a special research balloon and launched into thunderstorms. As they are carried up through electrified storms, these EFMs are designed to measure the strength and direction of the electric fields that build up before lightning strikes occur. Data from this instrument helps researchers learn more about the electrical structure of storms.\n\nNSSL operates two mobile laboratories (custom built by an ambulance company) called NSSL6 and NSSL7, outfitted with computer and communication systems, balloon launching equipment, and weather instruments. These mobile labs can be deployed on a rapid basis to collect data or coordinate field operations.\n\nNSSL researchers with the University of Oklahoma built their first mobile Doppler radar in 1993. Current versions of mobile radars (for example, NSSL's NOXP)\ncan be driven into positions very close to storms, observing details that are typically out of sight of the beam of more distant WSR-88D radars. NSSL has also used mobile radars to study tornadoes, hurricanes, dust storms, winter storms, mountain rainfall, and even biological phenomena.\n\nNSSL installed, operates and maintains the OKLMA. Thousands of points can be mapped for an individual lightning flash to reveal its location and the development of its structure. NSSL scientists hope to learn more\nabout how storms produce intra-cloud and cloud-to-ground flashes and how each type is related to tornadoes and other severe weather.\n\nNSSL researchers are working on products that use GOES satellite data to identify rapidly growing clouds that might indicate a developing thunderstorm. They are also working on products that estimate wind shear and stability in the surrounding environment to forecast the future severity of the storm.\n\nNSSL uses special instruments mounted on the top of the National Weather\nCenter that can measure the thermodynamic properties of the lowest 1–2 km of the atmosphere (boundary layer). Researchers study the data to learn more about the structure of the boundary layer, shallow convective cloud processes, the interaction between clouds, aerosols, radiation, precipitation and the thermodynamic environment, mixed phase clouds, and more. Numerical models, such as those used for climate and weather prediction, have large uncertainties in all of these areas. Researchers also use these observations to improve our understanding and representation of these processes.\n\nNSSL uses observations from people too! The mostly student-run NSSL/CIMMS Severe Hazards Analysis and Verification Experiment (SHAVE) collects hail, wind damage and flash flooding reports through phone surveys. SHAVE reports, when combined with the voluntary reports collected by the NWS, creates a unique and comprehensive database of severe and non-severe weather events and enhances climatological information about severe storm threats in the U.S.\n\nAnother way NSSL uses public observations is through the Meteorological Phenomena Identification Near the Ground (mPING) project. Volunteers can report on the precipitation that is reaching the ground at their location through mobile apps (iOS and Android). Researchers compare the reports of precipitation with what is detected by the dual-polarized radar data to refine precipitation identification algorithms.\n\nNSSL researchers have created a computer model that can simulate a thunderstorm to study how changes in the environment can affect its behavior. They also contribute to the development of the Weather Research and Forecast (WRF) model used in both research and NWS operations.\n\nThe Weather Research and Forecast (WRF) model is the product of a unique collaboration between the meteorological research and forecasting communities. Its level of sophistication is appropriate for cutting edge\nresearch, yet it operates efficiently enough to produce high resolution guidance for front-line forecasters in a timely manner. Working at the interface between research and operations, NSSL scientists have been \nmajor contributors to WRF development efforts and continue to provide leadership in the operational implementation and testing of WRF. The NSSL WRF generates daily, real-time 1- to 36-hour experimental forecasts at a 4 km resolution of precipitation, lightning threat, and more.\n\nThe NSSL COllaborative Model for Multiscale Atmospheric Simulation (COMMAS) is a 3D cloud model used to recreate thunderstorms for closer study. COMMAS is able to ingest radar data and lightning data from past events. Researchers use COMMAS to explore the microphysical structure and evolution of the storm and the relationship between microphysics and storm electricity. They also use COMMAS to simulate different phases of significant events, such as the early tornadic phase of the Greensburg, Kansas supercell that destroyed much of the town in 2004.\n\nThe Flooded Locations And Simulated Hydrographs Project (FLASH) was launched in early 2012 largely in response to the demonstration and real-time availability of high-resolution, accurate rainfall observations from the NMQ/Q2 project. FLASH introduces a new paradigm in flash flood prediction that uses the NMQ forcing and produces flash flood forecasts at 1-km/5-min resolution through direct, forward simulation. The primary goal of the FLASH project is to improve the accuracy, timing, and specificity of flash flood warnings in the US, thus saving lives and protecting infrastructure. The FLASH team is composed of researchers and students who use an interdisciplinary and collaborative approach to achieve the goal.\n\nNOAA's Hazardous Weather Testbed (HWT) is jointly managed by NSSL, the Storm Prediction Center (SPC) and the National Weather Service Oklahoma City/Norman Weather Forecast Office (OUN) on the University of Oklahoma campus inside the National Weather Center. The HWT is designed to accelerate the transition of promising new meteorological insights and technologies into advances in forecasting and warning for hazardous mesoscale weather events throughout the United States.\n\nNOAA's National Weather Radar Testbed (NWRT) is a phased array radar (PAR) being tested and evaluated in Norman, Oklahoma. The NWRT was established to demonstrate the potential to simultaneously perform aircraft tracking, wind profiling, and weather surveillance as a multi-function phased-array radar (MPAR). The advanced capabilities of the NWRT could lead to better warnings of severe weather.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2095925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095925", "title": "Sami Aldeeb", "text": "Sami Aldeeb\n\nSami Awad Aldeeb Abu-Sahlieh (in Arabic: سامي عوض ألذيب أبو ساحلية / \"Sāmy ʿwḍ ʾĀd-dyb ʾĀbw-Sāḥlyh\") (born September 5, 1949 in Zababdeh, near Jenin in the West Bank) is a Palestinian lawyer with Swiss citizenship.\n\nAldeeb was the head of the Arab and Islamic Law department at the Swiss Institute of Comparative Law from 1980 to 2009. He now directs the Center of Arab and Islamic law and teaches at various universities in Switzerland, France and Italy.\n\nHe is the author of many books and articles on Arab and Islamic law. In 2008 he published a bilingual edition of the Quran (Arabic - French) classifying the chapters (suras) in chronological order according to Al-Azhar, with reference to variations, abrogations and Jewish and Christian writings. He is currently preparing a similar edition in Italian and English. He also translated the Swiss constitution into Arabic for the Swiss Confederation.\n\nBorn to a family of Christian peasants, in Zababdeh, near Jenin, he attended primary school in his village (1956–61) before joining the Minor Seminary of the Latin Patriarchate of Jerusalem in Beit-Jala, near Bethlehem (1961–65). Four years later he left to attend a course in tailoring at the Salesian Technical School of Bethlehem (1965–1968), and worked in the tailoring trade in Jenin while, at the same time, working for the International Committee of the Red Cross. In 1970 he immatriculated at Jenin as a self-taught student, and thereafter obtained a scholarship from the \"l'Œuvre Saint-Justin\" in Fribourg, to study in Switzerland.\n\nIn April 1974, he received his Law degree from the University of Fribourg \"cum laude\", and then went on to study for a doctorate of Laws at the University of Fribourg and enrolled in the Graduate Institute of International Studies at Geneva to simultaneously study for an Honours degree in Political Science. He was awarded a degree with Honours from the Graduate Institute at Geneva in January 1976, His dissertation was entitled: \"The Right of peoples to sovereignty, analytic study of the Marxist-Leninist theory and the soviet position\". \n\nResearching for his doctoral thesis, he spent a year in Egypt. He defended his thesis: \"The impact of religion on the legal order, case of Egypt, non-Muslims in an Islamic country\" in December 1978 at the Faculty of Law in Fribourg, receiving the distinction \"summa cum laude\". His graduation took place after the publication of his thesis on 14 November 1979. During his studies he received a grant from \"l'Œuvre Saint-Justin\" in Fribourg (1970–1977) and a grant from the Swiss Confederation (1977–1979).\nDuring his stay in Egypt (1976–77), he interviewed forty Egyptian personalities. He intends to publish these interviews in the near future. \nHe was a federal civil servant at the Swiss Institute of Comparative Law in Lausanne from 1 November 1980 to 31 December 2009, heading the Department of Arab and Islamic law. As part of his duties, he wrote hundreds of legal opinions for Swiss and foreign authorities, for courts, lawyers, enterprises as well as for private individuals in the fields of family law, inheritance, criminal law and commercial law. In the course of his travels in Arab countries, he built up the most comprehensive collection of works on Arab and Muslim Law in Western Europe for the Swiss Institute of Comparative Law. \nDuring his work for the Swiss Confederation, he traveled to the following countries, in order to purchase books and to maintain contacts with law schools and research centers: Morocco (4 times), Algeria (twice), Tunisia (5 times), Libya (3 times), Egypt (9 times), Sudan (once), Jordan (4 times), Lebanon (twice), Syria (3 times), Iraq (once), Iran (once), Bahrain (twice), Kuwait (twice), United Arab Emirates (twice), Oman (twice), Palestine / Israel (7 times), South Yemen (once), North Yemen (twice), Qatar (once), Saudi Arabia (twice). \nIn May 2009, he opened his own Center of Arab and Islamic law, offering the following services: legal consultations, conferences, translations, research and courses concerning Arab and Islamic Law, and the relation between Muslims and the West, assistance for students and researchers. \nOn June 29, 2009, he received his \"Habilitation\" to supervise research (HDR) from the University of Bordeaux. In February 2010, he qualified as a University Professor, granted by the CNU, in sections 1 (private law) and 15 (Arabic). \nHe was naturalized as a Swiss citizen on May 11, 1984. Sami Aldeeb is married with two daughters. \n\nSami Aldeeb taught Arab and Islamic Law in various universities ; Institute of Canon Law of Strasbourg (1985–1991), Faculty of Law and Political Science of Aix-en-Provence (since 2005), Faculty of Law of Palermo (since 2007), CERISDI of Palermo (since 2007), International Faculty of Comparative Law in Strasbourg (since 2007), Faculty of Law of Trento (since 2010), Faculty of Law of Cergy-Pontoise (since 2010), Faculty of Law of Grenoble (since 2010), Faculty of Theology of Lugano (since 2011). He has also given hundreds of lectures in various countries.\n\nNovember 15, 1981: Vigener Prize of the Faculty of Law of Fribourg for his doctoral thesis.\n\nNovember 21, 2009: Elected Academician of \"Studium - Accademia di Casale Monferrato e per l'Arte del, the Letteratura the Storia, the e Scienze the Umanità Varies.\" \n\nSami Aldeeb’s publications consist of about thirty books and more than 200 articles on Arab and Islamic Law, in various languages: \n\nLe Coran, texte arabe et traduction française par ordre chronologique avec renvoi aux variantes, aux abrogations et aux écrits juifs et chrétiens, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2e édition, 2016, 462 pages\n\nThe Koran: Arabic text with the English translation in chronological order according to the Azhar with reference to variations, abrogations and Jewish and Christian writings, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2016, 474 pages\n\nIl Corano: Testo arabo e traduzione italiana: per ordine cronologico secondo l’Azhar con rinvio alle varianti, alle abrogazioni ed agli scritti ebraici e cristiani, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2017, 440 pages\n\nKoran in Arabic in chronological order: Koufi, Normal and Koranic orthographies with modern punctuation, references to variations, abrogations and ... and stylistic mistakes (Arabic Edition) (Arabic) Paperback – Large Print, April 29, 2016, 626 pages\n\nAl-Akhta' al-lughawiyyah fi al-Qur'an al-karim: Linguistic Errors in the Holy Koran (Arabic Edition) (Arabic) Paperback – Large Print, January 2, 2017, 500 pages\n\nLa Fatiha et la culture de la haine: Interprétation du 7e verset à travers les siècles, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2014, 120 pages\nZakat, corruption et jihad : Interprétation du verset coranique 9:60 à travers les siècles, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2015, 125 pages\nAlliance, désaveu et dissimulation : Interprétation des versets coraniques 3:28-29 à travers les siècles, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2015, 245 pages\n\nNulle contrainte dans la religion: Interprétation du verset coranique 2:256 à travers les siècles, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2015, 201 pages\n\nLe jihad dans l’islam: Interprétation des versets coraniques relatifs au jihad à travers les siècles, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2016, 254 pages\n\nLe droit des peuples à disposer d’eux-mêmes, étude analytique de la doctrine marxiste-léniniste et de la position soviétique, polycopié, IUHEI, 1976, 276 pages.\n\nDiscriminations contre les non-juifs tant chrétiens que musulmans en Israël, Pax Christi, Lausanne, Pâques 1992, 36 pages.\n\nLe droit musulman de la famille et des successions à l’épreuve des ordres juridiques occidentaux, Sami Aldeeb et Andrea Bonomi (éd.), Publications de l’Institut suisse de droit comparé, Schulthess, Zürich, 1999, 353 pages.\n\nLes sanctions en droit musulman: passé, présent et avenir, Cahiers de l’Orient chrétien 6, CEDRAC (USJ), Beyrouth, 2007, 110 pages.\nDemain les islamistes au pouvoir? Conception musulmane de la loi et son impact en Occident, Association culturelle du Razès, Montréal d’Aude (France), 2009, 174 pages\n\nDiscriminations contre les non-juifs tant chrétiens que musulmans en Israël, Pax Christi, Lausanne, Pâques 1992, 36 pages\nNon-musulmans en pays d’Islam: cas de l’Egypte, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2e édition, 2012, 422 pages\n\nLes musulmans face aux droits de l’homme: religion & droit & politique, étude et documents, Verlag Dr. Dieter Winkler, P.O.Box 102665, D-44726 Bochum, 1994, 610 pages\n\nLes mouvements islamistes et les droits de l’homme, in Herausforderungen Historisch-politische Analysen, Winkler, Bochum, 1998, 128 pages: Winkler\n\nAvenir des musulmans en Occident: cas de la Suisse, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2e édition, 2012, 142 pages \n\nCimetière musulman en Occident: Normes juives, chrétiennes et musulmanes, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2e édition, 2012, 140 pages\n\nCirconcision masculine et féminine: Débat religieux, médical, social et juridique, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2e édition, 2012, 528 pages\n\nCirconcision: Le complot du silence, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2e édition, 2012, 194 pages\n\nDroit musulman et modernité: diagnostiques et remèdes, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2014, 80 pages\n\nIntroduction au droit arabe: droit de la famille et des successions, droit pénal, droit médical, droit socio-économique, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2e édition, 2012, 534 pages\n\nIntroduction au droit musulman: Fondements, sources et principes, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2e édition, 2012, 470 pages\n\nL’Islam et la destruction des statues: Étude comparée sur l’art figuratif en droit juif, chrétien et musulman, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2015, 108 pages\n\nLe changement de religion en Egypte, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2013, 56 pages\n\nLe contrat d’entreprise en droit arabe: cas de l’Égypte: avec les dispositions des principaux codes arabes en différentes langues, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2e édition, 2012, 318 pages\n\nLes musulmans en Occident entre droits et devoirs, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2e édition, 2012, 244 pages\n\nLes successions en droit musulman: cas de l’Egypte: présentation, versets coraniques et dispositions légales, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2e édition, 2012, 116 pages\n\nManuel de droit musulman et arabe, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2e édition, 2012, 292 pages\n\nMariages mixtes avec des musulmans: Cas de la Suisse avec modèle de contrat en six langues, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2e édition, 2012, 56 pages\n\nProjets de constitutions islamiques et déclarations des droits de l’homme dans le monde arabo-musulman, Createspace (Amazon), Charleston, 2e édition, 2012, 216 pages\n\n"}
{"id": "2095927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095927", "title": "Huaibei", "text": "Huaibei\n\nHuaibei () is a prefecture-level city in northern Anhui Province, China. It borders Suzhou (Anhui) to the east, Bengbu to the south, Bozhou to the west, and the provinces of Henan to the northwest and Jiangsu to the northeast. The population was 2,114,276 inhabitants at the 2010 census, and the city has an administrative area of .\n\nThe prefecture-level city of Huaibei administers 4 county-level divisions, including 3 districts and 1 county.\n\nThese are further divided into 43 township-level divisions, including 20 towns, 8 townships and 15 subdistricts.\n\nSituated in northern Anhui, Huaibei is located at the junction of Jiangsu, Henan, and Anhui. The town of forms the exclave of Duji District that borders Xuzhou (Jiangsu) to the north.\n\nThe Huaibei City Stadium is located in Huaibei. The 30,000-capacity venue is used mostly for football (soccer) matches.\n\nHuaibei has vast quantities of mineral reserves including marble, iron, copper, gold, silver, nickel, cobalt, fire clay and limestone. It also possesses 2.726 million tons of coal.\n\nHuaibei is the home to numerous chemical, construction, machinery, textile, power, electronics, and mineral industrial firms. The city has over 2,000 industrial enterprises, of which 22 large and medium-sized ones are run by the state.\n\nThe annual output of raw coal from Huaibei is 2,000 million tons, ranking first in eastern China.\n\nThe power industry has also developed rapidly and is currently ranked third in eastern China - Huaibei Power Station has a total installed capacity of 950 MW and an annual electricity output of 620 GW. The Huaibei No. 2 Power Station, with the total installed capacity of l.2 GW, is also being built.\n\nThe textile industry in Huaibei is ranked second in Anhui. It has established a comprehensive system of printing and dyeing, wool and silk spinning, and knitting processes. The textile firms have 200,000 spindles, 15,000 looms, with a printing & dyeing capacity of 110 million meters.\n\nHuaibei's winemaking industry is over 1,000 years old. The \"Kouzi\" wine from the city has an annual output of 20,000 tons.\n\nThe construction industry is developing rapidly with an annual cement output of 2 million tons.\n\nThe chemical industry focuses on industrial products such as fertilizers, coke, sulphuric acid, and rubber.\n\nThe metallurgy, machinery, electronics, and food industries have also produced more than 100 kinds of products have reached or been approaching the national or international level.\n\nHuaibei is the main agriculture base for producing and exporting grain, cotton, and domestic animals. The main crops are wheat, maize, cotton, broad bean, rice, and potato. Livestocks include cattle, horse, pig, goat, rabbit, and domestic birds, etc. More than 200,000 mu () of land has been cultivated for fisheries that contain a large number of fish, shrimps, and crabs. The city is part of the National Agricultural Comprehensive Development Zones in Huanghai and Huaihai.\n\nHuaibei is one of the ten largest coal exporting cities in China and the largest exporter of textile products within Anhui Province. A large exporting enterprise in the city is responsible for producing 13 classes of over 100 kinds of export goods, among them coal, textile, grain, oil, silk, ores, chemicals, and pharmaceutical products. These merchandise are then exported to more than 80 countries and regions such as the United States, Japan, Australia, Canada, Western Europe, Russia, and Hong Kong, etc.\n\nHuaibei has formed South Lake Economic and Technological Development Zone and the Tanxikouzi Economic and Technological Development Zone to attract foreign investors.\n\nThe railways in the city are linked to Beijing-Shanghai Railway to the east, Urumqi-Lianyungang Railway to the north, and Beijing-Kowloon Railway to the west. Six state and provincial highways run through the city. Qinglongshan Port in Huaibei opens to Hongze Lake that connects to Yangtze River. The city is also only away from Xuzhou Guanyin Airport.\n\nThe 550 MHz stations in Huaibei can receive televised programs from more than 20 channels in China.\n\n"}
{"id": "2095928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095928", "title": "Paul E. Menoher", "text": "Paul E. Menoher\n\nPaul Edwin Menoher Jr. (born 20 July 1939) was a U.S. Army officer.\n\nFrom 15 September 1989 to 27 July 1993, Menoher, then a Major General, served as Chief of the Military Intelligence Corps. On 12 August 1993, Menoher became the Commanding General, U.S. Army Intelligence and Security Command.\n\nLater as a Lieutenant General, Menoher became Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Headquarters, Department of the Army.\n\nGeneral Menoher is a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "2095939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095939", "title": "Garnet Til Alexandros XVII", "text": "Garnet Til Alexandros XVII\n\nGarnet Til Alexandros XVII is a fictional character in the \"Final Fantasy\" series. She first appears in the 2000 video game \"Final Fantasy IX\" as the princess of the kingdom Alexandria and one of its protagonists. In this game, she is trying to escape her kingdom in order to meet her uncle, and joins with her kidnappers, including Zidane Tribal, to do so. She assumes the pseudonym Dagger and cuts her hair, which the designers regarded as an important one that the designers had to effectively treat as a separate character while writing her. Garnet received praise from critics as a standout of \"Final Fantasy IX\"s cast, ranking highly as a female character in the \"Final Fantasy\" series.\n\nEvent designer Kazuhiko Aoki felt that the scene where Garnet cuts her hair was an important one in the story of \"Final Fantasy IX\". He explains that it is a quiet moment among otherwise frenetic action and was important to the game's pacing. Aoki was worried about how Garnet would be handled with this and told the writers that they would have to effectively write two Garnets, one with long hair and one with short. Event planner Nobuaki Komoto found this difficult, adding that players tended to have different images of Garnet in their heads. He felt that a person's thoughts on the character are reflected by which depiction they think of. While the development team referred to her as Dagger, the nickname she chooses to disguise her identity, most players still referred to her as Garnet. Garnet was first revealed in a Coca-Cola advertisement featuring other characters from \"Final Fantasy IX\".\n\nGarnet first appears in the video game \"Final Fantasy IX\" as one of its protagonists. She is a princess of Alexandria Castle, and the daughter of Queen Brahne. Protagonist Zidane Tribal and others come to kidnap her, and she reveals to them that she wants to be kidnapped for her own purposes. She accidentally participates in a play and ad-libs her performance in disguise along with the kidnappers. When her and her kidnappers' identities are revealed, the Queen orders her soldiers to attack the stage; however, they are able to escape. Along with her and her kidnappers, a knight named Adelbert Steiner and a Black Mage named Vivi Ornitier joined them. She is captured by a monster when their ship crash lands in a forest, which the others help her escape. Brahne sends entities called the Black Waltzes to retrieve Garnet and kill the others. Garnet opts to assume a different identity and calls herself 'Dagger' after seeing Zidane's dagger. The group then discovers a Black Mage Factory, which causes Vivi distress. The group is attacked by one of the Black Waltzes, but manages to escape to Lindblum, where Garnet meets her uncle Cid. She discovers that Cid paid her kidnappers to take her to him, as he felt she was unsafe there. Despite being ordered by Cid to stay at the castle, she and Steiner sneak away so that Garnet can confront Brahne.\n\nGarnet was released as a figurine in Square Enix's Bring Arts line, sold as a pair along with Zidane.\n\nSince her appearance in \"Final Fantasy IX\", Garnet has received generally positive reception. In a poll of fans of \"Final Fantasy\", Garnet was ranked eighth on the list of greatest female \"Final Fantasy\" characters. USGamer found Garnet to be one of the best-written role-playing game characters. Writer Daniella Lucas initially did not like Garnet, stating that she saw her as just a damsel in distress. Later in life however with more life experience, they found that they related to her more, citing her struggles with her mother and her guilt for what happened to Alexandria. Ashley Barry, writing for The Mary Sue, felt similarly; they grew up seeing Garnet as weak, due in part to her \"traditional femininity,\" but later in life realized that they only thought this because they were raised to see femininity as weak. They noticed Garnet seeming happier when she had control of herself and defying the limitations posed onto her. \"Houston Press\" found her as a more likable protagonist than Zidane based on her more notable character arc across the narrative.\n\nWriter Natalie Flores also felt Garnet's relationship with her mother intriguing, praising Brahne's passing and apology to Garnet as one of the series' most touching moments. They noted that it portrays a complex relationship, one that writers of later \"Final Fantasy\" should refer to when they portray motherhood. \"Touch Arcade\" found the story of \"Final Fantasy IX\" at its strongest when Garnet or Vivi are focused upon. GamesRadar and Screen Rant felt that the relationship between Garnet and Zidane was poor, with the former citing a lack of chemistry between the two characters. Writer Leah B. Jackson was more positive towards the relationship, finding the early premise that Garnet wanted to be kidnapped by Zidane intriguing.\n\nAuthor Sean Atkinson discussed the theme, \"Melodies of Life\", and how it is used to represent particular relationships, namely those with Zidane and Eiko. The theme combines two themes heard throughout the game which are important to Garnet, and Melodies of Life only plays late in the game. They suggest that the execution of the two component themes and the complete theme is meant to show that Garnet and Zidane are destined to be together.\n"}
{"id": "2095940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095940", "title": "Paradise Valley, Nevada", "text": "Paradise Valley, Nevada\n\nParadise Valley is a census-designated place (CDP) in Humboldt County, Nevada, United States, near the Santa Rosa Ranger District of Humboldt National Forest. It is located at the northern terminus of Nevada State Route 290, about northeast of U.S. Highway 95 and a total of north of Winnemucca. The town is located in a broad valley, with the Santa Rosa Range of mountains just to the northwest. At the 2010 census, the population of the CDP was 109.\n\nA post office has been in operation at Paradise Valley since 1871. According to tradition, in the 1860s a prospector declared \"What a paradise!\" upon seeing the valley, after having traveled through the surrounding arid territory.\n\nAs of the census of 2010, there were 109 people, 51 households, and 35 families residing in the CDP. There were 92 housing units. The racial makeup of the CDP was 89.0% White, 1.8% Native American, 6.4% some other race, and 2.8% from two or more races. 18.3% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.\n\nThe American Folklife Center of the U.S. Library of Congress conducted extensive ethnographic field research in Paradise Valley from 1978 to 1982. The Paradise Valley Folklife Project generated a multi-format resource collection documenting the history and culture of the area's ranching community. A team of fieldworkers from AFC documented the distinct ethnic groups in the area (Apache, Anglo, Basque, Chinese, German, Italian and Northern Paiute); the history of the region, including archaeological remains of a Chinese community, foodways, and oral traditions. The resulting material was subsequently packaged by the Library of Congress into a collection titled \"\"Buckaroos in Paradise: Ranching Culture in Northern Nevada, 1945-1982\"\". The collection includes 32 boxes of archival material including manuscripts, audio and video recordings, and several thousand photographic prints and negatives from the AFC project and additional historical archives dating back to 1870. The project was initiated by the American Folklife Center in cooperation with the Smithsonian Institution in 1978.\n\nHumboldt County School District serves the community.\n\nThe sole school in Paradise Valley is the Paradise Valley School, which serves Kindergarten through eighth grade.\n\nThe town is name checked in \"The Beautiful South\" album track \"This Old Skin\" at the beginning of the second verse. The lyrics describe it as, \"not far from where the West was won\".\n\nTrapper and self-styled mountain man Claude Dallas eluded capture for 15 months after killing two Idaho Fish & Game wardens in Idaho, near Paradise Valley, in 1981. After conviction, he escaped from prison in 1986 and after almost a year was recaptured in Riverside, California.\n\nActress Edna Purviance was born in Paradise Valley.\n\n"}
{"id": "2095947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095947", "title": "Ahmad (crater)", "text": "Ahmad (crater)\n\nAhmad is a crater in the northern hemisphere of Saturn's moon Enceladus. Ahmad was first discovered in \"Voyager 2\" images but was seen at much higher resolution, though near the terminator, by \"Cassini\". It is located at 58.8° North Latitude, 311.6° West Longitude and is 18.7 kilometers across. The western portion of the crater is largely absent, either buried or disrupted by the eastern margin of Samarkand Sulci. A large, dome-like structure occupies the interior of the crater, caused by infill of material from Samarkand Sulci or from viscous relaxation.\n\nAhmad is named after a hero from \"Arabian Nights\". He brings his father an apple and marries Peri-Banu.\n"}
{"id": "2095955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095955", "title": "Francis Seymour, 5th Duke of Somerset", "text": "Francis Seymour, 5th Duke of Somerset\n\nFrancis Seymour, 5th Duke of Somerset (17 January 165820 April 1678), known as 3rd Baron Seymour of Trowbridge between 1665 and 1675, was an English peer.\n\nHe was the son of Charles Seymour, 2nd Baron Seymour of Trowbridge, and Elizabeth Alington (1635–1692). The dukedom came to him because his grandfather, Sir Francis Seymour, was a younger brother of the 2nd Duke of Somerset. He died aged 20, unmarried and childless, having been shot dead by Horatio Botti (a Genoese gentleman), whose wife Seymour was said to have insulted at Lerici. He was succeeded by his brother Charles Seymour.\n"}
{"id": "2095956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095956", "title": "Phantom (Sword of Truth)", "text": "Phantom (Sword of Truth)\n\nPhantom is the tenth book in Terry Goodkind's epic fantasy series \"The Sword of Truth.\" \"Phantom\" debuted in the #1 spot on \"The New York Times\" and \"Publishers Weekly\" bestseller lists, among others.\n\nFollowing the hit sales of the other books in the Sword of Truth series, Tor ran 500,000 copies in \"Phantom\"'s first printing. The author pre-signed 10,000 copies of the book before the release.\n\nA continuation of the story in \"Chainfire\", \"Phantom\" begins with Richard Rahl searching for his wife, Kahlan Amnell, whom only he remembers. As the reader discovered in \"Chainfire\", the spell used to make everyone forget Kahlan, Chainfire, was initiated by the Sisters of the Dark, working for the Keeper of the Underworld. Richard reveals that not only the spell but also all magic has been corrupted due to the effects of the chimes being in the world. Due to this corruption Kahlan is not invisible to everyone and Jagang uses this fact to continue to control her.\n\nThe story continues with Richard's quest to find his wife, Kahlan, and release her from the Chainfire spell. Kahlan still travels with the Sisters of the Dark Ulicia, Cecilia and Armina as they hurry to catch up with the fourth Sister, Tovi. Unbeknownst to them, Tovi is dead, stabbed by Samuel and allowed to die after being questioned by Nicci. They stop at the White Horse Inn, and the Sisters are shocked when the innkeeper can see Kahlan and correctly title her. Because of the Chainfire enacted on Kahlan, no one should be able to know she exists. She was erased from the memories of all who knew her and anyone who sees her instantly forgets. The Sisters kill the man and his family, and continue on, traveling toward Caska where they believe Tovi has gone.\n\nBack at the Wizard's Keep, Richard senses powerful magic and goes to investigate. He discovers Zedd, Ann and Nathan in a room where Nicci is caught up in the grips of a powerful spell called a verification web. The web is meant to examine the Chainfire spell and see if there is any way to undo it. Richard realizes that there is something wrong with the spell, recognizing that the corruption of the spell was caused by the presence of the three chimes - Reechani, Sentrosi, Vasi - being in the world, and the chimes not only corrupted the verification web, but they have corrupted all magic, including the Chainfire spell. Despite the other three's refusal of his analysis, he is able to disable the spell to release Nicci before the spell kills her. Before Nicci can tell anyone that the spell was indeed corrupted, the deadly beast that Jagang had created to hunt Richard appears in the room. In order to drive it off, Nicci places herself back into the spell form to draw upon the power between life and death. By refusing to actually supply the magic to the spell, the power of life and the power of the underworld come together and strike the beast, driving it away for the time being. Richard saves her from the spell a second time.\n\nShota arrives at the Keep, bringing Jebra in an attempt to make Richard believe that he is wasting his time trying to find Kahlan when there is a whole world that needs to be saved from the Imperial Order. To that end, she instructs Jebra to testify to the horrific terrors that had befallen the people of Ebissinia. Shota reveals that Samuel was under the control of another witch woman, Six. Richard says that he understands the situations, but Shota remains unconvinced and touches him with her power, opening his mind to see a vision that places Richard in the position of the slaughtered men of Ebissinia, who are condemned to death while listening to the vulgar promises of what the soldiers will do to their wives. In this dream-like reality, Richard sees Kahlan begging for his life and they profess their love for each other.\n\nAs Nicci and Shota have a minor confrontation, Richard realizes that Shota is right. Despite how important Kahlan's life is to him, it is only one life, while the whole of the New World is threatened by the Order. Pleased, Shota gives Richard a prediction she has had from the flow of time. Long ago, the First Wizard Barracus went to the Temple of the Winds to ensure that someone with the Subtractive side of the gift would be born again. After Barracus came back from the temple, he threw himself out his window, but not before he left a special book for Richard. Before Shota leaves, she gives him one last cryptic message: His mother was not the only one to die in the fire that claimed her life.\n\nAfter such events, Richard comes to understand that he was right all along when he earlier stated that it is impossible to fight the hordes of Imperial Order forces head on in one great final battle. Richard, Nicci and Cara travel in the Sliph to the main army in D'Hara and explain to the commanders what he has come to understand and his position. Richard issues a command that the army be broken up into smaller units, stating that if the Old World wants war, then they shall have it. The tactic being that while the Imperial Order is here in the New World, they shall become the Phantom D'Haran Legion, bringing death and destruction to the Old World. The death and destruction will be an endless reminder of what will happen to those who support the Order. He orders the troops to kill anyone who opposes them, burn crops, and bring him the ears of anyone who preaches the beliefs of the Order. His troops destroy entire garrisons of troops, impaling their heads on stakes, skin bureaucrats of the empire alive and impale them on stakes, and follow the strategy of slash-and-burn warfare to starve the men, women and children of the empire.\n\nThe three Sisters of the Dark and Kahlan follow Sister Tovi's trail to Caska, where they are surprised to find not Tovi (who has been dead since the end of the previous book), but Jagang waiting for them. Jagang once again proves that he is a master strategist by revealing that he had never left the Sisters of the Dark's minds and that by tricking them into thinking their fake bond with Richard was working, he learned much from their quest. He also captures Kahlan, him being able to see her because he was linked to the Dark Sister when they performed the Chainfire spell on Kahlan, and was therefore unaffected by it. Meanwhile, while traveling back to the Wizard's Keep through the Sliph, Richard is attacked by Jagang's beast and magic conjured by the previously thought to be dead Princess Violet (now Queen Violet at Six's instruction), causing him to become separated from his power. The Sliph instigates \"emergency measures\" instilled in her thousands of years ago by First Wizard Barracus and shunts Richard to an emergency escape portal somewhere in the wilds close to the land of the Night Wisps. Richard must pass a test Barracus left for him before the Sliph will tell him why he needs to see the Night Wisps. After a brief visit to the land of the Night Wisps to recover a secret book left by the War Wizard Barracus (who left the outfit and ruby pendant), \" Secrets of a War Wizard's Power\". Richard is captured by Six and taken to Tamarang. There, he hides \"Secrets of a War Wizard's Power\" in the room that he was tortured in during \"Wizard's First Rule\", deciding that regardless of what happens to him, he cannot let anyone find the book that Barracus hid for 3000 years for him. While being taken to Violet, Richard attempts an escape killing dozens of Imperial Order soldiers. The commanding officer is impressed with his skill and takes Richard away as a captive to become a player of Ja'La dh Jin (Game of Life) on his division's team.\n\nThe division of the Imperial Order rejoins the main forces, now laying siege on the People's Palace. Richard catches a glimpse of Kahlan as he is taken into the camp and revives her will to fight on and remember her past. Back at the Wizard's Keep, while discussing Richard's desire to save Kahlan, Zedd states that even though Richard is trying hard, Kahlan is as good as dead. The \"Chainfire\" spell put in place over her \"destroys\" memories, not just overlap them or bury them; Kahlan will never remember any of them, even Richard, ever again. Nicci has a revelation about the all important Prophecies that Richard must lead them in the final battle and puts one of the Boxes of Orden in play in Richard's name, so that not only the Sisters of the Dark have superiority in that matter.\n\nThe book ends with a few major cliffhangers: Richard is a captive in the Imperial Order's main camp, without his sword or his gift; Kahlan is a captive of Jagang with a Rada'han; the Boxes of Orden are in play by Nicci; there is a problem with Chainfire and with magic; that the Imperial Order is slowly making their way into the central stronghold of the D'Haran forces: the People's Palace, but also the D'Haran forces appear able to cut off the Imperial Order supply lines just as winter starts.\n\nThe Wizard's Tenth Rule, revealed in \"Phantom\", is:\n\nIt is explained in the novel as follows: \"People who for whatever reason don't want to see the truth can be acutely hostile to it and shrill in their denunciation of it. They frequently turn their venomous antagonism on whoever dares to point out that truth ... To those seeking the truth, it's a matter of simple, rational, self-interest to always keep reality in view. Truth is rooted in reality, after all, not the imagination.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2095968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095968", "title": "Fargo-Moorhead RedHawks", "text": "Fargo-Moorhead RedHawks\n\nThe Fargo-Moorhead RedHawks are a professional baseball team based in Fargo, North Dakota, in the United States. The RedHawks are a member of the American Association of Independent Professional Baseball, which is not affiliated with Major League Baseball. The RedHawks have played their home games at Newman Outdoor Field since 1996, when the team started as a member of the Northern League. The team plays in the American Association.\n\nThe team was created as a Northern League expansion franchise in 1996 along with the now-defunct Madison Black Wolf. Chris Coste is probably the most well-known former RedHawks player and was a member of the 2008 World Series winning Philadelphia Phillies. The RedHawks, along with the St. Paul Saints, have been one of the most stable and successful independent baseball teams over the past 15 years.\n\nThey are reported to have had the first broadcast by minor league professional baseball on the internet.\n\nIn fifteen seasons in the Northern League, the RedHawks set the modern Northern League best single-season record for win percentage with a 64-21 (.753) mark in 1998, set the record for most wins in a season with 68 in 2005, made it to the playoffs 14 of 15 seasons, won five Northern League titles, and were named \"Baseball America's\" Independent Team of the Decade during the '90s.\n\nThe 1998 team recorded a combined record of 70 wins and 22 losses during the regular season and playoffs (76.1%).\n\nOn October 13, 2010, the RedHawks left the Northern League, along with the Gary SouthShore RailCats, Kansas City T-Bones, and the Winnipeg Goldeyes to join the American Association for the 2011 season. The four remaining Northern League teams all folded or left the league. Accordingly, the Northern League ceased operations and folded in October 2010. As a result, the RedHawks have the distinction of being the last league champion. They've won the 2012 and 2013 American Association North Division Championship.\n\nOn August 13, 2017, the Redhawks relieved Doug Simunic of his duties as field manager. Simunic had served in the position for all 22 years of the team's existence. He was replaced by pitching coach Michael Schlact, who after finishing the season on an interim basis was named the permanent manager on September 7, 2017. Michael Schlact managed one season with the RedHawks, before stepping down in February 2019 to take a coaching position within the Milwaukee Brewers minor league system. On March 20, 2019, Jim Bennett was named as the franchise's third manager. The team went on to a 63-37 record and lost in the North Division Championship Series to St. Paul 3-2 in the best-of-five series. Bennett was named the American Association's Manager of the Year. \n\n"}
{"id": "2095974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095974", "title": "Andrássy út", "text": "Andrássy út\n\nAndrássy Avenue () is a boulevard in Budapest, Hungary, dating back to 1872. It links Erzsébet Square with the Városliget. Lined with spectacular Neo-renaissance mansions and townhouses featuring fine facades and interiors, it was recognised as a World Heritage Site in 2002. It is also one of Budapest's main shopping streets, with fine cafes, restaurants, theatres, Embassies and luxury boutiques. Among the most noticeable buildings are the State Opera House, the former Ballet School (under reconstruction for several years), the Zoltán Kodály Memorial Museum and Archives, the Hungarian University of Fine Arts and the Ferenc Hopp Museum of East Asian Arts.\n\nIt was decreed to be built in 1870, to discharge the parallel Király utca from heavy traffic and to connect the inner city parts with the City Park. Its construction began in 1872 and the avenue was inaugurated on August 20 (a national holiday), 1876. Its realization was a blend of the plans proposed by the top 3 competitors Lajos Lechner, Frigyes Feszl and Klein & Fraser. Its palaces were built by the most distinguished architects (led by Miklós Ybl) of the time, financed by Hungarian and other banking houses. These were mostly finished by 1884 and mostly aristocrats, bankers, landowners and historical families moved in. It was named in 1885 after the main supporter of the plan, Prime Minister Gyula Andrássy.\n\nThe construction of the Budapest Metro, the first underground railway in Continental Europe, was proposed in 1870, since the capital had always been opposed to surface transport on this road. Construction began in 1894 and was finished in 1896, so this new metro line could facilitate the transport to Városliget, the main venue of the millennium celebrations of Hungary.\nThe boulevard was renamed three times in the 1950s; a testament to the rapid political changes of the period. It became Sztálin út (\"Stalin Street\") in 1950 during the Soviet occupation. During the 1956 uprising it was renamed to Magyar Ifjúság útja (\"Avenue of Hungarian Youth\"). The following year the governing communists changed the name to Népköztársaság út (\"People's Republic Street\"). The former name of Andrássy was restored in 1990, after the end of the communist era.\n\nIn September 2011, Secretary of State for Culture Géza Szőcs officially announced plans to build a new structure along Andrássy út close to City Park and near the existing Budapest Museum of Fine Arts and Budapest Art Hall (Műcsarnok). This building would house the collections of the current Hungarian National Gallery. This expanded plan, which would utilize the entire boulevard, is referred to as the Budapest Museum Quarter or Andrássy Quarter. However, since that announcement the plans changed several times and have now been reduced to three new museum buildings in and around the city park.\n\nAndrássy út consists of four main parts, from inside to outside as follows:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2095975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095975", "title": "Svinia", "text": "Svinia\n\nSvinia () is a village of some 1,500 people (as of 2005 ) in eastern Slovakia about 8 km west from Prešov. The village covers an area of 14.734km². \n\nIt consists of two settlements of similar size, one inhabited by Slovaks and the other by Romani. The Svinia Romani settlement was visited and \"discovered\" by Canadian anthropologists in 1993, and became the subject of the documentary film \"The Gypsies of Svinia\". The team was shocked at the appalling and unsanitary living conditions, the 100% unemployment, and the deep racial divide between white Svinia and Romani Svinia. Svinia has since become infamous in Europe and has been the subject of studies, books and films. International projects to improve life for the Romani in Svinia have been ongoing since the 1990s.\n\n\nSvinia Project at the Thompson Rivers University, Kamloops, BC website\n"}
{"id": "2095992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095992", "title": "Lazarus Churchyard", "text": "Lazarus Churchyard\n\nLazarus Churchyard is a fictional character in a British comics series, created in 1991 by Warren Ellis and illustrated by Matt Brooker under the pseudonym D'Israeli. The stories are cyberpunk in theme, although Ellis himself does not consider it so and prefers to call it \"decadent SF\".\n\nLazarus Churchyard stories originally appeared in \"Blast!\" magazine, and were reprinted in \"Beyond 2000AD\", \"Judge Dredd Megazine\", and elsewhere Although some stories have been illustrated by others, Ellis has said he considers only the D'Israeli-illustrated work \"the definitive Churchyard\".\n\nTundra Press released three-issue comic-book series, \"Lazarus Churchyard\", in 1992. This was collected the same year as the trade paperback \"Lazarus Churchyard: The Final Cut\" (Atomeka Press), reissued by Image Comics () in 2001.\n\nThe eponymous central character took part in a \"plasborging\" experiment in which around eighty per cent of his body was replaced with an intelligent, evolving plastic, which can react in 0.132 of a second to any situation and adapt accordingly. In the story, this adaptation usually takes the form of growing spikes, blades or similar weapons. The plastic also processes toxins of all kinds, essentially making Churchyard immortal.\n\nThe stories take place 400 years after this experiment. Churchyard is by now tired of his immortality and wants to die. He inhabits a dystopian future in which the United Kingdom has been taken over by the corporation Isis-Elek and renamed Savoy, while large parts of the globe have been rendered uninhabitable by germ warfare. \n\nThe hard rock bands [[Lucy's Drowning]] and [[Meathook Seed]] both took their names from elements of the story.\n\n\n[[Category:British comics titles]]\n[[Category:Image Comics titles]]\n[[Category:2000 AD comic strips]]\n"}
{"id": "2095993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095993", "title": "John Seymour, 4th Duke of Somerset", "text": "John Seymour, 4th Duke of Somerset\n\nJohn Seymour, 4th Duke of Somerset and 3rd Marquess of Hertford (before 164629 April 1675) was an English peer and MP.\n\nHe was the only surviving son of William Seymour, 2nd Duke of Somerset, and Lady Frances Devereux, and he entered Gray's Inn in 1666. He succeeded his nephew as the 4th Duke of Somerset in 1671. In 1656 he married Sarah, daughter and co-heiress of Sir Edward Alston and widow of George Grimston.\n\nHe was elected Member of Parliament for Marlborough in 1661.\n\nHe died in 1675, childless, and was buried in Salisbury Cathedral. He was succeeded in the dukedom by his cousin, Francis Seymour. The Marquessate of Hertford became extinct on his death.\n"}
{"id": "2096003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096003", "title": "Homewood-Flossmoor High School", "text": "Homewood-Flossmoor High School\n\nHomewood-Flossmoor High School (H-F) is a comprehensive public high school south of Chicago in Flossmoor, Illinois. The school district encompasses nearly 11.5 square miles, drawing students from all or portions of Homewood, Flossmoor, Chicago Heights, Glenwood, Hazel Crest, and Olympia Fields. As of the 2018–2019 academic year there were 2,771 students. The demographics of the student body that year was 70.1% African American, 18.3% White, 7.3% Hispanic, 0.6% Asian, 0.1% American Indian, and 3.6% from two or more races.\n\nA three-time U.S. Department of Education Blue Ribbon Award for Academic Excellence winner (1983, 1996, 2002), Homewood-Flossmoor continues to be ranked nationally, including as one of \"America’s Most Challenging High Schools\" by \"The Washington Post\". In 2012–13, Homewood-Flossmoor became the first public high school in Chicago's suburbs to earn the International Baccalaureate World School status. Homewood-Flossmoor has an Advanced Placement program (25 AP courses in 2017-18); a five-course Project Lead the Way STEM program; and a Media, Visual & Performing Arts Academy (MVP).\n\nThe campus consists of a North* and South Building. The South Building contains a number of sub-buildings each assigned a letter, and includes the school's radio station (WHFH) 88.5 FM Flossmoor, television station VTV, science labs, a swimming pool, a music building, gymnasium and an auditorium. An ice rink is also located on the campus, owned by the local park district.\n\nIn 2014, H-F took part in a multimillion-dollar ($26,070,000 contract) renovation of the North Building on campus. The renovations included a new 200-meter track containing four full-sized basketball, volleyball, and badminton courts in the center of the track. The 9,000-sq. ft. facility also contains cardio and training equipment. Additionally, a 50-yard indoor turf has expanded the playing and practice season for a variety of field sports and activities, including football, soccer, field hockey, baseball and marching band. The project was finished in late spring 2014. In 2015, H-F was awarded a Gold LEED Award for outstanding environmental practices in the construction of this addition. \nIn 2019, the school began the first phase of its Fine Arts Expansion Project, which will add a new music wing and performance center, in addition to renovated visual arts classrooms. Expected completion date for the project is October 2020.\n\nHomewood-Flossmoor Community High School site opened in 1959 with enrollment at 1,170 students. There were 51 classrooms, which included 10 English classes, 10 Social Science, eight Science, six Mathematics, five Foreign Language, three Physical Education, one Homemaking, three Industrial Arts, two Art, and three Music classes. A cafeteria, library and administrative area were also included.\n\nBy 1965, the school's population had nearly doubled and additional buildings were added: Auditorium (1965), G Building (1966) and E Building (1966). As growth continued, it became apparent that a major new facility was needed, and in 1971, the North Building and fieldhouse opened when the student population topped 4,000.\n\nFollowing a decade of preparation and fiscal planning, in 1995 a $25 million renovation and addition program was completed: all classrooms and offices were wired for internet access; a music wing was added, providing student practice and performance; a Technology Center and numerous labs to offer computer assisted instruction were completed; the Mall Building, located mid-campus near the football field and field house, was expanded, modernized and staffed, providing athletic training and rehabilitation of student athletes; a new Olympic sized aqua-center was opened; 14 tennis courts were added; and the student-run WHFH radio and TV stations were modernized.\n\nIn 1989, football coach John Wrenn proposed District 233 adopt a mandatory drug-testing policy similar to one at two Lafayette, Indiana high schools, where a recent landmark court case decision allowed the creation of such programs. H-F became the first high school in Illinois to require mandatory random drug testing for its student athletes.\n\nIn 1996, the school gained publicity when up to 20,000 people gathered on the school lawn to hear President Bill Clinton deliver a speech on education during his 1996 reelection campaign.\n\nIn addition to being named a Blue Ribbon School by the United States Department of Education three times, the school has received Department of Education Technology Award twice. In 1995, the school's technology plan was named one of the five best in the nation. In spring 2013, the International Baccalaureate (IB) Organization granted IB World School status to Homewood-Flossmoor. H-F now joins the exclusive company of approximately 3,000 IB World Schools that dot the globe across 138 countries.\n\nBeginning with the Class of 2020, the school now offers the unique Media, Visual & Performing Arts Academy (MVP), allowing students the opportunity to develop their talent in an art-focused field and making their passion the focal point of their education.\n\nA comprehensive school that offers four levels of academic courses, Homewood-Flossmoor serves all of its students at every level through programs such as Project Lead the Way, Advanced Placement, IB Prep Academy, IB Diploma Programme and the Media, Visual & Performing Arts Academy. The school's academic resources and support initiatives help it challenge and meet the needs of all students every day. In 2016, nearly 90% of the graduating class continued on to a two- or four-year college or university. Placement in courses and levels is largely by student choice, yet the school encourages students to aspire to the highest course levels, resulting in an increase in the number of students in AP courses. In 2016, 1,025 AP exams were taken at Homewood-Flossmomor, and — on those tests — students scored a 3 or higher and beat the national average in 10 subject areas.\n\nH-F has been named one of \"Newsweek's\" top 1,000 schools on several occasions in recent years: 2013, 2012, 2010, 2009 (#1142), 2008 (#746), 2007 (#682), 2006 (#849), 2005 (#744), and 2003 (#518).\nH-F has also been ranked for several years as one of America's Most Challenging High Schools by the Washington Post.\n\nH-F's Visual Arts Department was named the Best School Art Program in the state in 2013 by the Illinois Art Education Association.\n\nH-F offers an award-winning fine arts program, which includes courses in music, theatre, and visual arts. There are over 50 courses offered. About 39% of H-F students are enrolled in at least one fine arts course \n\nH-F's Music Department includes three core programs: band, orchestra, and choir. As well as ensembles of these programs, additional classes are offered at HF, such as AP Music Theory, Industry of Music, and Guitar Ensembles. Band, orchestra, and choir ensembles each take turns touring a foreign country once every year, during spring break. Each program consists of multiple ensembles, curricular and extra-curricular. \n\nH-F's drama programs involve both curricular offerings and co-curricular productions. Five courses make up the curricular program: Acting, Theatre Production, Advanced Theatre Performance, Technical Theatre I, and Technical Theatre II.\nThe H-F Theatre Department has won 17 State Championships in Drama, alone.\n\nH-F's drama programs involve both curricular offerings and co-curricular productions. H-F produces seven Mainstage shows in a school year. H-F holds the Illinois record for State Championships in Drama, with 17 State Championships. H-F also holds the record for top three finishes in Drama and Group Interpretation. HF also has 3 State Championships in Group Interpretation.\n\nH-F's Visual Arts Department was named the best in the state of Illinois in 2013 by the Illinois Art Education Association. \nPrograms offered:\n\nThe H-F Media, Visual and Performing Arts Academy (MVP) is a H-F's exclusive two-year program committed to a fine art education.\n\nH-F competes in the Southwest Suburban Conference (SWSC) and is a member of the Illinois High School Association (IHSA), the organization which governs most sports and competitive activities in Illinois. Teams are stylized as the Vikings.\n\nThe school sponsors interscholastic teams for young men and women in basketball, cross country, golf, gymnastics, soccer, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field, volleyball, and water polo. Young men may compete in baseball, football, lacrosse, and wrestling, while young women may compete in badminton, cheerleading and softball. While not sponsored by the IHSA, the school also sponsors an ice hockey team for young men as well as field hockey and poms teams for young women.\n\nThe school also offers a fencing team at a club level, which participates in the Great Lakes High School Conference every winter.\n\nThe following teams have won their respective IHSA sponsored state championship tournament or meet:\n\n\nAs of 2009, the girls golf team has finished in the top ten at the IHSA State Finals more than any team in state history; their six state titles is the second highest total in state history.\n\nThe following activities placed in the top four of their respective IHSA sponsored state championship competition:\n\n·DECA: Multiple state and national championships in various events including Quiz Bowl\n• Journalism: State Champions (2010, 2016)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096005", "title": "Logandale, Nevada", "text": "Logandale, Nevada\n\nLogandale is located in Clark County, Nevada. It was an unincorporated town in Clark County until 1981 when it was merged with Overton to create the unincorporated town of Moapa Valley. The community is the home of the annual Clark County Fair and Rodeo. The Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department patrols the town.\n\nEstablished on the west side of the Muddy River in 1865, Logandale was originally named West Point. It was enlarged and renamed Saint Joseph in 1868, by settlers driven out of their first town of Saint Joseph, Nevada on the east side of the Muddy River when it burned down. It also acquired the post office established in the old town on August 26, 1867.\n\nThe new Saint Joseph like the other Mormon settlements in the Moapa Valley was abandoned in 1871 due to a tax dispute with the state of Nevada. Its post office closed in October 1871 but became active again on in May 1876. Following the Mormon return to Overton in 1880, in November 1883 the post office operations were moved there.\nThe town was later to begin to revive in 1912 around a railroad station with the name Logan, for a Civil War veteran who settled on the abandoned town site. It was subsequently renamed Logandale in order to avoid repetition with Logan, Utah.\n\nLogandale is located at the north end of Moapa Valley. The town can be accessed by taking exit 93 off of Interstate Highway 15, going south on Highway 169.\n\nLogandale is in the Moapa Valley, Nevada Census Bureau Census-designated place (CDP).\n\nKADD is licensed to the town.\n\nThe Clark County Fair and Rodeo is held annually in Logandale.\n\nThe Clark County School District serves the area.\n"}
{"id": "2096008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096008", "title": "Joseph Jongen", "text": "Joseph Jongen\n\nMarie-Alphonse-Nicolas-Joseph Jongen (14 December 1873 – 12 July 1953) was a Belgian organist, composer, and music educator.\n\nJongen was born in Liège, where his parents had moved from Flanders. On the strength of an amazing precocity for music, he was admitted to the Liège Conservatoire at the extraordinarily young age of seven, and spent the next sixteen years there. Jongen won a First Prize for Fugue in 1895, an honors diploma in piano the next year, and another for organ in 1896. In 1897, he won the Belgian Prix de Rome, which allowed him to travel to Italy, Germany and France.\n\nHe began composing at the age of 13, and immediately exhibited exceptional talent in that field too. By the time he published his Opus 1, he already had dozens of works to his credit. His monumental and massive First String Quartet was composed in 1894 and was submitted for the annual competition for fine arts held by the Royal Academy of Belgium, where it was awarded the top prize by the jury.\n\nIn 1902, he returned to his native land, and in the following year he was named a professor of harmony and counterpoint at his old Liège college. With the outbreak of World War I, he and his family moved to England, where he founded a piano quartet. When peace returned, he came back to Belgium and was named professor of fugue at the Royal Conservatory of Brussels. From 1925 until 1939, he served as director of that institution; he was succeeded by his brother Léon Jongen. Fourteen years after leaving the directorship, Joseph Jongen died at Sart-lez-Spa, Belgium.\n\nFrom his teens to his seventies Jongen composed a great deal, including symphonies, concertos (for cello, for piano and for harp), chamber music (notably a late string trio and three string quartets), and songs, some with piano, others with orchestra. (His list of opus numbers eventually reached 241, but he destroyed many pieces.) Today, the only part of his \"oeuvre\" performed with any regularity is his output for organ, much of it solo, some of it in combination with other instruments.\n\nHis monumental \"Symphonie Concertante\" of 1926 is a \"tour de force\", considered by many to be among the greatest works ever written for organ and orchestra. Numerous eminent organists of modern times (such as Virgil Fox, Alexander Frey, Jean Guillou, Michael Murray and Olivier Latry) have championed and recorded it. The work was commissioned by Rodman Wanamaker for debut in the Grand Court of his palatial Philadelphia department store, Wanamaker's. Its intended use was for the re-dedication of the world's largest pipe organ there, the Wanamaker Organ, as part of a series of concerts Rodman Wanamaker funded with Leopold Stokowski and the Philadelphia Orchestra. Wanamaker's death in 1928 precluded the performance of the work at that time in the venue for which it was written, but it was finally performed for the first time with the Wanamaker Organ and the Philadelphia Orchestra on 27 September 2008.\n\nIn 1945, Jongen composed the Mass, Op. 130, for choir, brass and organ, in memory of his brother Alphonse.\n\n\nSome of the information on this page appears on the website of Edition Silvertrust but permission has been granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096009", "title": "Colin Harvey", "text": "Colin Harvey\n\nColin Harvey (born 16 November 1944 in Liverpool, Lancashire, England) is an English retired footballer who is best known for his time as a player, coach and manager with Everton.\n\nHarvey was born in Liverpool and joined Everton as an apprentice in 1960. Harvey was often described as an elegant and skilful player and was nicknamed the \"White Pelé\" by Everton fans. \"A beautiful footballer this boy\" commented Kenneth Wolstenhome during the 1968 FA Cup Final, while \"Goal\" magazine called him \"a delightful player to watch\". The 'White Pele' nickname came about because of his natural ability, grace and technique:\n\n\"\"It was when I made my debut for Sheffield Wednesday at Bolton. My dad had brought me back and I got a few phone calls asking how the game had gone, and someone told me that there was a banner at the Park End at Goodison saying something about me and the white Pele – it was a very proud moment for me! For someone to say that about you comparing you to probably the best player that ever played the game is really unbelievable. To think that people thought that much of me was hard to believe.\"\"\n\nHarvey made his debut in 1963, aged 18, against Italian side Inter Milan in a European Cup tie in the chaotic San Siro Stadium. He became a first team regular during the 1964–65 season.\n\nOf the occasion he said: \"\"[I found I was playing] on the afternoon of the game. We had lunch and then we had a team meeting. Harry Catterick said there would be only one change. He said \"Dennis Stevens – you move to number 4 and Colin Harvey goes to number 8\" This was all because Gabby was injured at the time. It was as simple as that! I just gasped, I didn't have a clue that I was going to play – it was a great way of doing it, he didn't give me a chance to think about it, I just had to go out there and play! I thought no-one was going to expect too much of me, I just went out there and done my best and I did okay.\"\"\n\nHarvey became a part of the famous midfield trio known as the \"Holy Trinity\" with Alan Ball and Howard Kendall. Widely regarded as the best midfield of their generation, they were the key components of Everton's Football League First Division winning team in the 1969–70 season captained by Brian Labone. In an interview in the late 1970s, Harry Catterick claimed that in terms of \"skill and ability, Colin was the best of the three\". Of the late 1960s/early 70s Everton side, George Best said \"they were a delight to watch and indeed play against.\" It was in fact Harvey's superb solo goal which clinched the title at Goodison Park vs West Bromwich Albion which has been described as one of the best ever goals to win the league championship. He also helped Everton win the 1970 FA Charity Shield.\n\nIn 1974 he left Everton to join Sheffield Wednesday, where he finished his playing career shortly afterwards.\n\nDespite his success at club level Harvey only made one appearance for the senior England team; this coming in a UEFA Euro 1972 qualification game against Malta.\n\nHe played in the FA Cup winning team of 1966, scoring the winning goal in the semi-final against Manchester United. Harvey also played in the 1968 team that also reached the FA Cup final who lost the game against underdogs West Bromwich Albion. Harvey was also a key member of the 1970 League Championship winning side and helped them win the 1970 FA Charity Shield. While at Everton he made 384 appearances (4 as substitute) and scored 24 goals.\n\nAfter leading Everton to the First Division title in 1986–87, Kendall left to manage Athletic Bilbao and Harvey stepped up to manage Everton. Harvey led them to the 1987 FA Charity Shield and managed the club until 1990, when Kendall returned to manage Everton and Harvey stepped down to be his assistant.\n\nHarvey left Everton shortly after Kendall's departure in December 1993, he then had a brief spell as assistant manager at Mansfield Town and in November 1994 became assistant to Oldham Athletic's new player-manager Graeme Sharp following the departure of Joe Royle to Everton. Sharp left Oldham in March 1997, and Harvey followed him out of the Boundary Park exit door, but was soon back in the game as Burnley assistant manager to Adrian Heath, however after just a matter of months he was appointed Everton's youth coach when Howard Kendall became manager for a third time.\nEvertonians have nominated Colin Harvey for an MBE for over forty years worth of service to Everton F.C.\n\nIn 2008 Harvey began working for Bolton Wanderers, during Gary Megson's tenure at the club. In July 2012 it was announced that Harvey had left his chief scouting role at the Reebok Stadium after just over four years at the club.\n\nHarvey is married to Maureen and lives in Aughton, Lancashire.\n\nColin Harvey's brother, Brian Harvey, was a footballer who forged a career playing for clubs on four continents before coaching in Hong Kong and Oklahoma.\n"}
{"id": "2096010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096010", "title": "Bishop of Hong Kong", "text": "Bishop of Hong Kong\n\nThe Bishop of Hong Kong may refer to the leaders of the following religious entities:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096012", "title": "Hot Chase", "text": "Hot Chase\n\nHot Chase is an arcade game released in 1988 by Konami. In the game, players drive a white Porsche 959 out of an enemy country to the Border crossing of a friendly one. The car has a bomb attached to it that explodes in a set time. If the bomb explodes, players must restart. There are many obstacles along the way, including railroad crossings, military checkpoints, helicopters that shoot at the car and other cars. The gameplay is said to be similar to Chase HQ.\n\nCompleting the game resulted in a scene where the hero exits the car, takes his machine gun, and fires at the car to add to the damage before the bomb explodes. Then the game played the following message: \"Mission Complete. You have succeeded in stealing the enemy armored super car and have crossed the border to freedom. After a few days the enemy surrendered to our country. You will be remembered for your brave deeds. Thanks a million!\"\n"}
{"id": "2096013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096013", "title": "Newman Outdoor Field", "text": "Newman Outdoor Field\n\nNewman Outdoor Field is a baseball stadium in Fargo, North Dakota. It is located on the campus of North Dakota State University and is the home of the independent American Association's Fargo-Moorhead RedHawks and the North Dakota State Bison baseball team. \n\nThe 4,513 seat facility opened in 1996. In 1998, naming rights were sold to Newman Outdoor Advertising for $1.5 million. Fargo based architect firm R.L. Engebretson P.C. worked on the design with RedHawks GM John Dittrich and Assistant GM Tim Flakoll and City of Fargo leaders.\n\nThe stadium contains the Maury Wills Museum in honor of the former Major League Baseball player who worked for the RedHawks as a coach and a radio analyst.\n\nThe first number retired at the stadium was the #8 worn by hometown hero Roger Maris when he played for the Fargo-Moorhead Twins in the 1950s. The outfield distances replicate those of Yankee stadium where Maris made history.\n\nIn 2012, college baseball writer Eric Sorenson ranked the field the sixth most underrated venue in Division I baseball.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096018", "title": "Niko Nawaikula", "text": "Niko Nawaikula\n\nNiko Nawaikula (born 16 August 1960) also known as Nikolau Tuiqamea, is a Fijian lawyer, and member of the Parliament of Fiji. He is a member of the Social Democratic Liberal Party.\n\nNawaikula is from Buca, Natewa, in Cakaudrove Province. He qualified as a lawyer at the University of Tasmania in 1985, and has specialized in laws related to native land and indigenous people. A strong supporter of conservative family values, he said that parents should take their children's upbringing and education seriously.\n\nAfter the 2006 Fijian coup d'état, Nawaikula returned to his private practice as a lawyer and continued to involve himself with issues affecting indigenous Fijians. In June 2010, after returning from the 10th UN Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues in New York, Nawaikula and many of the Paramount Chiefs of Fiji formed the Fiji Native Tribal Congress, a nonprofit and non government body aiming to protect and advance the rights of indigenous Fijians, as an indigenous group, and to negotiate with the government and concerned citizens in a manner that balances those rights with the individual rights and group rights of other citizens in Fiji and to champion human rights generally.\n\nNawaikula first ran for parliament as a candidate for the Conservative Alliance (CAMV) in a byelection in the Cakaudrove West Fijian Communal Constituency in 2005. The by-election has been called following the imprisonment of the incumbent, Ratu Vakalalabure (Ratu Osea's older brother), on charges related to his role in the Fiji coup of 2000. Nawaikula was declared elected unopposed on 22 June 2005 after the only other candidate, the Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua (SDL)'s Ratu Osea Vakalalabure (Ratu Vakalalabure's younger brother), withdrew from the contest, thus averting the scheduled byelection. The CAMV had called on the SDL to withdraw its candidate on the basis of a coalition agreement between the two parties.\n\nNawaikula was re-elected in the 2006 elections as an SDL candidate, following the merger of the CAMV and the SDL. He was subsequently elected Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives. He lost the position when parliament was dissolved by the 2006 Fijian coup d'état.\n\nNawaikula returned to Parliament as a candidate of the Social Democratic Liberal Party in the 2014 elections, the first since the 2006 coup. He was re-elected in the 2018 elections, winning 5187 votes.\n"}
{"id": "2096019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096019", "title": "Martos", "text": "Martos\n\nMartos is a city in the province of Jaén in the autonomous community of Andalusia in south-central Spain.\n\nIt has a population of 24063 inhabitants, making Martos the fifth largest municipality in the province. The city is located on a western peak of the Sierra Jabalcuz mountain range.\nIt belongs to the metropolitan Area of Jaén, of which it is considered to be the second most important city after the capital.\n\nIts economy is based on agriculture, in particular the cultivation of the olive tree. Also important are various industries, especially those related to the treatment of plastic.\n\nThe city has been linked to the Roman settlement of \"Colonia Augusta Gemella\", and starting in the 8th century was ruled by the Moors under various Islamic states for over 500 years. \nIn 1225, King Ferdinand III of Castile and Leon captured the city from the Moors and incorporated it into his kingdom.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Martos became a strategic place, and its defences were reinforced with the construction of numerous fortifications in the city.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century and beginning of the 20th, Martos underwent significant economic and urban development (reflected in the city's architecture), in large part due to the wealth derived from the industrial production of olive oil. Martos thus became one of the most prosperous cities of eastern Andalusia.\n\nAround 250 AD, a bishopric was established in present Martos under the name Tucci, on territory from the suppressed Diocese of Iliturgi. It was a suffragan of the Metropolitan Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Sevilla.\nIn 350, it lost territory to establish the Diocese of Cástulo (now also a titular see), which it regained at that bishopric's suppression around 400.\n\nIn 715, it was suppressed to establish the Diocese of Beaza.\n\nRecorded bishops are\n\nMartos possesses an immense agricultural richness thanks to the culture of the olive grove, which places the city in the summit as for production and quality of what is named a “liquid gold \".\nNevertheless, in the last years, the industry has done a great act of presence in the economy of this city, especially the plastic industry, the car industry, metallurgists, the construction of roads, etc.\nAmong all the existing factories in the city, it is necessary to emphasize the French multinational Valeo, dedicated to the production of projectors and lighting of vehicles, on which many other factories depend.\n\nAmong the numerous festivals carried out in the city it is necessary to highlight:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096029", "title": "Overton, Nevada", "text": "Overton, Nevada\n\nOverton is a community that is part of the unincorporated town of Moapa Valley in Clark County, Nevada. Overton is on the north end of Lake Mead. It is home to Perkins Field airport and Echo Bay Airport.\n\nOverton was originally settled in 1869 with Helaman Pratt serving as branch president. A regular LDS branch was organized there in 1883. In the 1880s, Overton was the location of the only store in the lower Moapa Valley and attracted people from neighboring localities who arrived in Overton to buy supplies. In the 1930s, the town of St. Thomas was submerged by water as Lake Mead was being filled, and the majority of its population relocated to Overton. After that, Overton developed as the main core of the business community in the lower Moapa Valley. It also hosted most of the social events in the area.\n\nIn 1980, residents of Overton and the nearby town of Logandale approved a referendum on merging the two towns into the town of Moapa Valley. The Clark County Commission affirmed the vote, legally creating Moapa Valley on February 13, 1981.\n\nOverton is located in Moapa Valley, northeast of Las Vegas, Nevada. The town features a landscape of mesas, foothills, and nearby Lake Mead. It is also the settlement closest to Valley of Fire State Park.\n\nNear Overton, there are deposits of magnesite, kaolin, and gypsum. Silica sand is also being produced.\n\nNevada State Route 169 connects Overton with Interstate 15 (exit 93) in the north and Lake Mead National Recreation Area in the south. South of Overton, the highway into Valley of Fire state park (formerly a part of Nevada State Route 169, decommissioned in 2001) branches off west.\n\nOverton is located on the former St. Thomas branch of Los Angeles and Salt Lake Railroad which runs along the Moapa Valley, from north to south. The construction of the branch started in 1911 from Moapa station, which lies on the main line between Salt Lake City and Las Vegas. By March 1912, the construction was completed. In 1919, the railway was made a double track. In 1938 and 1939, the final six-mile segment leading to St. Thomas, which was submerged under waters of Lake Mead, was abandoned. The branch currently extends to the town southern outskirts, serving the gypsum plant. There is no passenger service, but there is freight traffic.\n\nTwo more entries are located in the vicinity of Overton. These are the wreck of Boeing B-29 Serial No. 45-21847 submerged in Lake Mead and Pueblo Grande de Nevada.\n\n\nThe novel Lords of St. Thomas (GWP, 2018) by Jackson Ellis tells the story of the last family to vacate nearby St. Thomas, Nevada in 1938 following construction of the Boulder Dam. The book is set partly in Overton, and is where the Lord family relocates to after the flooding of St. Thomas.\n"}
{"id": "2096030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096030", "title": "USS Sable (IX-81)", "text": "USS Sable (IX-81)\n\nUSS \"Sable\" (IX-81) was a United States Navy training ship during World War II, originally built as the passenger ship \"Greater Buffalo\", a sidewheel excursion steamboat. She was purchased by the Navy in 1942 and converted to a training aircraft carrier to be used on the Great Lakes. She lacked a hangar deck, elevators, or armament and was not a true warship, but she provided advanced training of naval aviators in carrier takeoffs and landings.\n\nOn her first day of service, 59 pilots became qualified within nine hours of operations, with each making eight takeoffs and landings. Pilot training was conducted seven days a week in all types of weather conditions. President George H. W. Bush was one of the aviators who trained on \"Sable\".\n\n\"Sable\" was decommissioned on 7 November 1945. She was sold for scrapping on 7 July 1948 to the H.H. Buncher Company. She and her sister ship USS \"Wolverine\" hold the distinction of being the only freshwater, coal-fired, side paddle-wheel aircraft carriers used by the United States Navy.\n\nFormerly named \"Greater Buffalo\", \"Sable\" was built in 1924 by the American Ship Building Company of Lorain, Ohio as a sidewheel excursion steamer designed by marine architect Frank E. Kirby. Her hull number was 00786 and the official number assigned to her was 223663.\n\nThe interior of the ship was designed by W & J Sloane & Company of New York City in what was referred to as \"an adaptation of the Renaissance style\". The ship's saloon was on two decks, and there were 650 staterooms and more than 1,500 berths for passengers. A -long transportation-themed mural, painted by New York City artists Francklyn Paris and Frederick Wiley, was created on board \"Greater Buffalo\". On the promenade deck at the stern of the ship was a smoking room with a line of windows that arced from one side of the ship to the other. Each room had a telephone connected by a central switch board located in the ship's lobby. The highest priced staterooms offered a private bathroom, couch and balcony. Her dining room could seat 375 with amenities including distilled water and what was advertised as \"washed and cooled air\". Foot lights were incorporated into the hallways and staircases so that the main lights could be turned off for the passengers sleeping comfort. \"Greater Buffalo\" could transport up to 103 vehicles on her main deck and 1,000 tons of freight. At the time she was given the nickname \"Majestic of the Great Lakes\".\n\nTo protect against a shipboard fire, safety features that were included in her construction included an automatic fire alarm system, a sprinkler system throughout the ship and fire safety walls. Her hull was all steel with eleven watertight compartments and a double bottom divided into sixteen watertight compartments. Hydraulically controlled watertight doors could be remotely operated from the engine room. A full-time watchman was on duty to add an extra layer of protection for the ship and passengers. Navigation equipment included a Sperry gyro compass and log, a Haynes automatic sounding machine along with high powered searchlights at each end of the ship. The ship was also equipped with twelve 60-person capacity lifeboats along with an assortment of life rafts and floats.\n\nWhen completed, \"Greater Buffalo\" was in length, a beam of , height of and measured 7,739 gross register tons. She had nine boilers installed and was powered by a three-cylinder inclined compound steam engine. The engine, built by American Shipbuilding, had one cylinder of diameter and two of diameter by stroke. It was rated at 1,915NHP.\n\nShe was seven decks high, carried three funnels along her top and was equipped with rudders at both ends of the ship for improved maneuverability. She carried a crew of 300 officers and enlisted with their cabins stationed on the lowest deck fore and aft of the ship's machinery. The final cost for construction was $3,500,000.00.\n\nFollowing a period of company growth during World War I the Detroit and Cleveland Navigation Company was able to order a pair of new ships for their Great Lakes routes. \"Greater Buffalo\" along with her sister ship, \"Greater Detroit\", were among the largest side wheel paddle ships on the Great Lakes when she entered service in 1924. Her port of registry was Detroit, Michigan. \n\nOn her maiden voyage to Buffalo, New York on 13 May 1925 \"Greater Buffalo\" carried a capacity number of passengers including T.V. O'Connor who was president of the shipping board at the time. \"Greater Buffalo\" was used as a palatial overnight service boat transporting up to 1,500 passengers from Buffalo to Detroit, Michigan for the Detroit and Cleveland Navigation Company. Guests were entertained by an orchestra for dancing in the main dining room following dinner service as well as radio programming provided in the main salon. Along with passenger service \"Greater Buffalo\", as well as other Detroit and Cleveland Navigation Company ships, offered their customers the option of transportation for 125 automobiles on their voyage.\n\nDuring the Great Depression \"Greater Buffalo\" along with her sister ship were taken out of service from 1930 through 1935. This, along with union disputes and worker strikes, caused continuing losses for her owners. In 1934, she had been allocated the Code Letters WSBH. In 1936 \"Greater Buffalo\" was docked at Cleveland and used as a \"floating hotel\" for attendees of the Republican Convention. The ship was reported to have broken free of her moorings and drifted out into the harbor during a storm but was brought back by harbor tugs. During the 1938 season \"Greater Buffalo\" along with \"Greater Detroit\" were removed from service only to be returned to service the following year.\n\nFollowing the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 there was a need for large vessels that could be converted into training aircraft carriers for pilot training. \"Greater Buffalo\"s length, following conversion, would be roughly two thirds the length of an and it was felt by the navy that if pilots could master takeoffs and landings on the shorter deck they would have less problems transitioning to a standard length carrier. Other benefits by using her for training were that an active duty combat ship would not have to be used for training and with her location on the Great Lakes she would be out of the reach of enemy submarines and mines. \"Greater Buffalo\" was acquired by the Navy on 7 August 1942 by the War Shipping Administration to be converted into a training aircraft carrier and renamed \"Sable\" on 19 September 1942.\n\nWhen leaving her port in Detroit for the last time heading for her refit it was reported that \"Greater Buffalo\" was \"saluted\" by those on board the other vessels in the area. \"Sable\" was converted at the Erie Plant of American Shipbuilding Company at Buffalo, New York. The cabins and superstructure of the ship were removed leaving the main deck. Along with additional supports, a steel flight deck was installed instead of the originally planned Douglas-fir wooden deck similar to what was installed on . The steel deck also allowed \"Sable\" to be used for the testing a variety of non-skid coatings applied to the flight deck. The deck of \"Sable\" was equipped with eight sets of arresting cables as well. A bridge island or superstructure was constructed on the starboard side of the ship along with outriggers forward of the island for storing damaged aircraft\".\" On the main deck a lecture room, along with projection equipment, was constructed that could accommodate more than forty aviators with bunks for twenty one aviators. She was also equipped with a sick bay, operating room, laundry, tailor shop, crew quarters, a cafeteria style galley for the crew, a mess hall for the officers, storerooms and a refrigerator. \"Sable\" lacked a hangar deck, elevators or armament, as her role was for the training of pilots for carrier take-offs and landings. A number of crew members assigned to \"Sable\" prior to her commissioning were survivors of which had been lost earlier during the Battle of the Coral Sea. \"Sable\" was commissioned on 8 May 1943 with Captain Warren K. Berner in command.\n\nThe completed \"Sable\" departed Buffalo on 22 May 1943 and arrived at her assigned homeport of Chicago, Illinois on 26 May 1943 and were docked at Navy Pier joining her sister ship USS \"Wolverine\" in what was casually referred to as the \"Corn Belt Fleet\". \"Sable\" along with her sister ship, \"Wolverine\", were assigned to the 9th Naval District Carrier Qualification Training Unit (CQTU) and were tasked with qualifying pilots for carrier operations. With the flight deck shorter and lower to the water it was felt that if a pilot could master take offs and landings they would have less trouble when they were stationed on a standard size carrier. Pilot training was conducted seven days a week with the fifty-nine pilots becoming qualified within nine hours of her first day of service. One issue that arose was that because of the lower top speed and height of \"Sable\" there wasn't enough \"wind over deck\" needed in order to launch certain types of aircraft or even carry out training on calm days. In August 1943 \"Sable\" was used as a base for testing the experimental TDN-1 torpedo drone aircraft.\n\nFollowing the end of World War II, \"Sable\" was decommissioned on 7 November 1945 and struck from the Naval Vessel Register on 28 November 1945. Before she was to be auctioned off a proposal was made by the Great Lakes Historical society to have \"Sable\" become a museum for Great Lakes history at Put-in-Bay, Ohio near the Commodore Perry monument. When that proposal failed she was sold by the Maritime Commission to H. H. Buncher Company on 7 July 1948 and was reported as \"disposed of\" on 27 July 1948. In order to fit through the Welland Canal, \"Sable\" was cut down prior to her journey to the ship breaking yard at Hamilton, Ontario. It was reported that of her beam along with of her stern flight deck were removed prior to her being moved by tugboats. Even with the modifications \"Sable\" only had of clearance on each side while passing through the canal locks.\n\nTogether, \"Sable\" and \"Wolverine\" trained 17,820 pilots in 116,000 carrier landings. Of these, 51,000 landings were on \"Sable\" alone. One of the pilots qualified on \"Sable\" was a 20-year-old Lieutenant, junior grade, future president George H. W. Bush. Of the estimated 135–300 aircraft lost during training, 35 have been salvaged and the search for more is underway. Both USS \"Sable\" and USS \"Wolverine\" hold the distinction of being the only freshwater, coal-driven, side paddle-wheel aircraft carriers used by the United States Navy. USS \"Sable\" earned both the American Campaign Medal and the World War II Victory Medal during her Naval career.\n\nUSS \"Sable\" received the following awards for its World War II Service.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096031", "title": "Craig White", "text": "Craig White\n\nCraig White (born 1969) is a former English cricketer, who played Tests and ODIs. He is currently a cricket coach.\n\nBorn 16 December 1969, Morley, West Yorkshire, England, White was brought up in Australia, but later moved back to England, his country of birth, where he became Yorkshire's first-ever overseas signing. At the time Yorkshire still operated a policy of only employing cricketers born in Yorkshire, even though English counties could play up to two overseas players if they wished. Having played in Australia, White was not initially qualified to play for England when he returned. This led to Yorkshire listing him as an overseas player.\n\nAt the start of his career, White was an all-rounder who batted right-handed and bowled right-arm off spin. In his twenties, he changed his style to become a fast bowler, after doubts were raised about the purity of his spin-bowling action.\n\nWhen Raymond Illingworth became the new Chairman of Selectors for the English cricket team in 1994, he wanted the England team to contain an all-rounder who could bat at number six, and bowl first-change. He selected his fellow Yorkshireman White for this role, much to the surprise of many media pundits and fans. By this time, White had been playing in England long enough to qualify for the national team, and he made his Test début against New Zealand. His performances were inconsistent and he was dropped after eight matches.\n\nIn 2000, he suffered a mystery blackout, waking up to find himself in a gutter in Scarborough. The incident suddenly revitalised him as a cricketer, and his county performances earned him a recall to the England team for the series against the West Indies. He had a successful series, contributing useful runs at numbers seven and eight, and becoming an important member of the pace-bowling attack, including dismissing Brian Lara for his first golden duck of his Test career. His bowling had improved to such an extent that he was capable of using reverse swing and reaching speeds of 90 mph off a short run-up.\n\nWhite played well on subsequent tours to the subcontinent, with his most notable achievements being 93 against Pakistan at Lahore in 2000 and 121 against India at Ahmedabad in 2001. The latter performance was his one and only Test century. His thirtieth and final Test Match was against Australia in the Fourth Test of the 2002–03 Ashes series. An injury to his side prevented him from playing in the Fifth Test, but he later recovered to play in the 2003 Cricket World Cup, his last appearance for the national team.\n\nWhite's Test career was distinguished by inconsistency: with the ball, he took just fourteen wickets in his first ten Tests, followed by two consecutive five-wicket draws, and then no more than a two-for in his next fourteen Tests, before finally bowing out with a dozen in the three Ashes matches against the Australians; with the bat, meanwhile, he failed on two occasions to reach double figures more than once over the course of nine innings, but nevertheless gave solid accounts of himself on the Asian subcontinent. \"By the end,\" wrote satirist Andy Zaltzman, \"it was hard to work out if he had overachieved or underachieved with both bat and ball. Or done exactly as well as he should.\"\n\nAfter the World Cup, bowling-related injuries began to take their toll on White, and he re-invented himself as a specialist batsman for Yorkshire. Always an aggressive shot-maker, keen to hook and drive the quicks, and hit the spinners into the deep, he added greater depth and consistency to his game.\n\nIn 2004, White was appointed captain of Yorkshire, and in 2005 led them to promotion from Division Two of the County Championship. However, he resigned as captain at the end of the 2006 season, having helped them to avoid relegation.\n\nIn 265 first-class matches, up to the end of 2006, White had scored 11,949 runs at 32.91 with a best of 186, while his 341 List A one day games brought him 8,933 runs at 26.56, with a best score of 148. He took 395 first-class wickets at an average of 28.47, with a best of eight for 55, and another 337 scalps in the one day game at 25.02, with a best of 5 for 19.\n\nWhite's sister, Andrea, is married to the former Australian international cricketer Darren Lehmann, who played together with White at Yorkshire for a number of years.\n\nWhite is a former President of the Royal Burton Agnes Cricket Club, until 2017 when he was replaced by Phil Tufnell.\n\nIn 2012, White accepted a position on the coaching staff, at Hampshire County Cricket Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096037", "title": "Jean Fabre", "text": "Jean Fabre\n\nJean Fabre may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096042", "title": "Bender (band)", "text": "Bender (band)\n\nBender was an American hard rock band from Milwaukee, Wisconsin.\n\nBender had a local reach for some time before being signed onto TVT Records. The band has produced two albums, the first called \"Joe\" released in 1995, and later an album called \"Jehovah's Hitlist\" released in 1998 independently and later remastered and re-released on TVT Records in 2000. In 2005, a source close to the band stated that Bender would remain \"inactive until further notice.\" \n\nTheir more popular songs, \"Isolate\" and \"Superfly\", were featured on the game \"ATV Offroad Fury\" for PlayStation 2. The song \"Angel Dust\" also appeared in the movie \"3000 Miles to Graceland\" starring Kevin Costner and Kurt Russell.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096043", "title": "The Skeleton Key", "text": "The Skeleton Key\n\nThe Skeleton Key is a 2005 American Southern Gothic supernatural horror film directed by Iain Softley, written by Ehren Kruger and starring Kate Hudson, Gena Rowlands, John Hurt, Peter Sarsgaard, and Joy Bryant. The story follows hospice nurse Caroline who begins a job at a Terrebonne Parish plantation home, and becomes entangled in a supernatural mystery involving the house, its former inhabitants, and Hoodoo rituals and spells that took place there. It was released in North America on August 12, 2005.\n\nCaroline Ellis (Hudson), a hospice aide, quits her position at a nursing home and is hired as the caretaker of an isolated plantation house in Terrebonne Parish, Louisiana. The aging lady of the house, Violet Devereaux (Rowlands), needs help looking after her husband Benjamin (Hurt), who was mostly paralyzed by an apparent stroke. At the insistence of the family's estate lawyer, Luke Marshall (Sarsgaard), Caroline accepts the position.\n\nAfter Ben attempts to escape his room during a storm, Caroline investigates the house's attic, where Violet said Ben suffered his stroke; she uses a skeleton key which Violet gave her. She discovers a secret room filled with ritual paraphernalia. Caroline confronts Violet, who reveals that the room used to belong to two African American servants who were employed at the house 90 years before. The servants, Mama Cecile and Papa Justify, were renowned hoodoo practitioners; they were lynched after conducting a ritual with the owners' two children, from whom Violet and Ben later bought the house. Violet tells Caroline that they keep no mirrors in the house because they see reflections of Cecile and Justify in them. Caroline borrows a phonograph record from the attic: \"Conjure of Sacrifice,\" a recording of Papa Justify reciting a hoodoo ritual.\n\nCaroline surmises that Ben's stroke was caused by hoodoo, but believes that his paralytic state is a nocebo effect induced by his own belief, rather than something supernatural. Taking advice from her friend Jill (Bryant), Caroline visits a hidden hoodoo shop in a nearby laundromat, where a hoodoo woman gives her tools and instructions to cure Ben. After she conducts the ritual, Ben regains some ability to move and speak and he begs Caroline to get him away from Violet.\n\nCaroline tells Luke she is suspicious of Violet, but he remains skeptical. They travel to a gas station that Caroline previously noted was lined with brick dust, which she was told is a hoodoo defense; supposedly, no one who means one harm can pass a line of brick dust. She asks one of the proprietors, a blind woman, about the \"Conjure of Sacrifice\", which she learns is a spell wherein the caster steals the remaining years of life from the victim. Increasingly convinced of hoodoo's authenticity, Caroline fears that Violet will soon cast the spell on Ben.\n\nCaroline discovers that Violet is unable to pass a line of brick dust laid across one of the house's doorways, confirming her suspicions. She incapacitates Violet and attempts to escape the house with Ben, but Violet uses magic to chain the front gate. Caroline hides Ben on the property and enters Luke's office for help. Luke, revealed to be Violet's accomplice, brings Caroline back to the house. Caroline escapes, gets into a fight with Violet, and violently pushes her down the stairs, breaking her legs in the process. With strategic use of brick dust, Caroline flees to the attic, calls 9-1-1 and Jill for help, and casts what she believes is a protective spell. Violet, having caught up with her, reveals she actually trapped herself inside a protective circle. Violet pushes a full-length mirror at Caroline, which reflects the original owner's daughter, then Violet, and lastly Mama Cecile. A recording of the \"Conjure of Sacrifice\" plays, and the two switch bodies.\n\nViolet (revealed to be Mama Cecile, who had been occupying Violet's body through the Conjure) wakes up in Caroline's body, and force-feeds Caroline (now in Violet's body) a potion that induces a stroke-like paralytic state like Ben's. Luke (actually Papa Justify) arrives upstairs, revealing that Mama Cecile and Papa Justify have been conducting the Conjure of Sacrifice on new people since their supposed deaths; they had swapped places with the two children just before the lynching. Because hoodoo is supposedly only effective on those who believe in it, Cecile and Justify had to wait for Caroline to come to believe in hoodoo through her own investigation. \n\nEmergency services arrive the next morning and take Caroline and Luke away, trapped in the paralyzed dying bodies of Violet and Ben; when Jill arrives, \"Luke\" tells her that the Devereauxes left the house to Caroline, ensuring that Cecile and Justify will continue to occupy the house.\n\n\n\"The Skeleton Key\" was filmed at the Felicity Plantation, located on the Mississippi River in Saint James Parish, Louisiana.\n\n\"The Skeleton Key\" was released in the U.S. on August 12, 2005, along with Four Brothers. The film grossed $92 million worldwide. In the U.S., it took in $16.1 million in its first weekend, reaching number 2 at the box office; the total US gross was $47.9 million.\n\nReview aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 38% of 149 surveyed critics gave the film a positive review; the average rating is 5.3/10. The site's consensus reads: \"Thanks to its creaky and formulaic script, \"The Skeleton Key\" is more mumbo-jumbo than hoodoo and more dull than scary.\" Metacritic rated it 47/100 based on 32 reviews.\n\n\"USA Today\" wrote that the film \"employs intriguing camera angles to heighten some of the suspense. It's too bad the movie goes over the top and falls apart in the last third.\" Stephanie Zacharek wrote in \"Salon\", \"Softley, working from a script by Ehren Kruger (\"The Ring Two\"), puts so much care into layering moods and textures that he doesn't always scoot the action along as briskly as he should.\" In \"The Seattle Times\", Moira McDonald wrote that the film is \"occasionally scary but more often silly.\"\n\nScott Brown of \"Entertainment Weekly\" wrote, \"For anyone zombified by creaky thriller clichés, \"Skeleton\" is a fine little shot in the head\". Manohla Dargis of \"The New York Times\" said, \"One of the most enjoyably inane movies of the season, this faux Southern Gothic offers an embarrassment of geek pleasures\". Peter Hartlaub of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" called it \"a well-intentioned horror film that is weighted down by stellar cast members who for the most part act as if they do not want to be there\". In her review for \"The Austin Chronicle\", Marjorie Baumgarten wrote, \"Director Softley again shows his gifts for creating atmospheric milieus...Yet the movie, overall, lacks tension and suspense. In \"Film Journal International\", Edward Alter wrote that, \"Iain Softley (\"K-Pax\") and cinematographer Dan Mindel make the most of the setting,\" but concluded that the film was, \"a paint-by-numbers supernatural thriller that's more interesting for its locations than for its story.\"\n\nJennie Punter in \"The Globe and Mail\" called the film, \"stylishly made but disappointingly lightweight.\" Writing for the \"Chicago Tribune\", Jessica Reeves called the film \"serviceable but ultimately disappointing\". In his annual film guide, Leonard Maltin rated the film mediocre, stating that it was \"well-produced and occasionally suspenseful, but populated by unpleasant characters and a story that moves too slowly.\" In the annual \"DVD & Video Guide\", Marsha Porter wrote, \"A few good scares can't compensate for a sluggish pace, and the climactic twist comes as a surprise only because it doesn't make sense.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2096044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096044", "title": "Adam LaRoche", "text": "Adam LaRoche\n\nDavid Adam LaRoche (born November 6, 1979) is an American former professional baseball first baseman who played 12 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB). He played for the Atlanta Braves, Pittsburgh Pirates, Boston Red Sox, Arizona Diamondbacks, Washington Nationals and Chicago White Sox. He is the son of pitcher Dave LaRoche and the brother of third baseman Andy LaRoche.\n\nAdam LaRoche was a 1998 graduate of Fort Scott High School in Fort Scott, Kansas, where he played baseball. He was named an All-American in baseball as a senior. His uncle, Dave Regan, was his high school head coach. He played for his father, Dave, at Fort Scott Community College in 1999 before transferring to Seminole Community College in Seminole, Oklahoma in 2000, where he was an All-American and the MVP of the Junior College World Series.\n\nHe was drafted by the Florida Marlins in both the 1998 and 1999 amateur drafts, but refused to sign. He was drafted by the Atlanta Braves in 2000 and signed with the team.\n\nFor the start of the 2004 season, the Braves made LaRoche, who had not yet made his major league debut, their starting first baseman. The left-handed LaRoche platooned with 46-year-old veteran Julio Franco and put up a respectable .278 rookie batting average. LaRoche demonstrated his strong defensive skills at first base, but also a lack of speed running the bases.\n\nLaRoche again platooned with Franco in 2005. While he did hit 22 home runs, LaRoche had a very streaky season. He hit .385 in his final 17 games of the year, but just .105 in the 19 games that preceded that streak. He batted .500 with a grand slam in the Braves 2005 NLDS Series against the Houston Astros. With the offseason departure of Franco, LaRoche became the Braves sole starter at first base in 2006.\n\nOn May 14, 2006, LaRoche garnered the contempt of Braves fans, players, and management after a play in which he fielded a routine grounder and lackadaisically jogged to first, and was beaten to the bag by Nick Johnson. LaRoche was heavily booed by the crowd (which continued for some time in the following games) and was benched for the play.\n\nOn May 28, 2006, LaRoche contributed two of the Braves' record eight home runs in a remarkable win against the Chicago Cubs. In addition, in a wild game against the San Diego Padres on July 14, 2006, LaRoche hit two more home runs and had five RBIs to help the Braves to a 15–12, 11-inning win. He finished the year with a .285 average, 32 home runs, and 90 RBIs — all career-bests.\n\nThe Braves traded LaRoche and minor league outfielder Jamie Romak to the Pittsburgh Pirates on January 17, 2007 for reliever Mike Gonzalez and minor league shortstop Brent Lillibridge.\n\nDuring the 2009 season he played with his brother Andy LaRoche with the Pirates until July 22, 2009 when he was traded to the Boston Red Sox.\n\nOn May 13, 2009, LaRoche became the first player in major league history to have a home run taken away through the use of video replay.\n\nLaRoche was traded to the Boston Red Sox for minor league pitcher Hunter Strickland and shortstop Argenis Díaz. In six games, LaRoche would go on to hit one home run and three RBIs, with an average of .263. During his brief tenure in Boston, LaRoche lived with his teammate J. D. Drew in Drew's home in Boston.\n\nOn July 31, 2009, after only spending six games with Boston he was dealt back to his former Atlanta Braves for first baseman Casey Kotchman. LaRoche was traded by Boston in order to cut payroll and the belief that Kotchman would be a better pinch hitter than LaRoche would.\n\nOn January 14, 2010, LaRoche agreed to a 1-year, $4.5 million contract with the Arizona Diamondbacks. His deal included a $7.5 million mutual option with a $1.5 million buyout. In his 1-year tenure with the Diamondbacks, LaRoche hit .261 with 25 home runs and 100 RBI in 151 games.\n\nOn January 4, 2011, LaRoche agreed to a 2-year contract with the Washington Nationals. His contract paid him $7 million in 2011 and $8 million in 2012 with a mutual option for $10 million in 2013. On April 7, LaRoche hit his first home run as a member of the Nationals, a game-winning two-run home run off Florida Marlins reliever Edward Mujica in the 11th inning of a 5–3 Nationals win. His 2011 season ended with labrum surgery on his left shoulder with career-low batting numbers of .172/.288/.258 (BA/OBP/SLG).\n\nLaRoche's 2012 season began much more successfully, hitting .329 in April. He was a consistent bat throughout the season, driving in no fewer than 12 runs each month from April to August.\nLaRoche accomplished a rare feat in early September when he homered in each game of a four-game series against the Chicago Cubs (and hit five home runs overall). The only other players to match this feat are Hall-of-Fame sluggers Babe Ruth, Hank Greenberg, Yogi Berra, Johnny Bench, and Mike Schmidt.\n\nOn October 2, LaRoche reached two personal milestones. He hit his career-high 33rd home run, in the process tying a career high of 100 RBI. He earned his first Gold Glove and the Silver Slugger Award.\n\nLaRoche declined his $13.3 million 2013 option on November 1 and became a free agent. Since the Nationals exercised their half, LaRoche wasn't paid a $1 million buyout.\n\nOn January 8, 2013, LaRoche signed a 2-year, $24 million contract to remain with the Nationals, that included a mutual option for 2015. LaRoche had a down year in 2013, hitting .237 with 20 home runs and 62 RBI in 152 games.\n\nLaRoche had a bounce back season in 2014, hitting .259 with 26 home runs and 92 RBI in 140 games. After the Nats were eliminated in the NLDS by the San Francisco Giants, the Nats announced they would not pick up LaRoche's $15.3MM option, with the intent of moving Ryan Zimmerman to first base.\n\nOn November 25, 2014, the Chicago White Sox announced that LaRoche had been signed to a two–year, $25 million contract. LaRoche hit his 250th career home run off Detroit Tigers reliever Joakim Soria in a 4-3 White Sox win on June 6, 2015.\n\nOn March 15, 2016, LaRoche said that he intended to \"step away from baseball.\" He said that he would honor a request from teammates to reconsider his retirement for a day or two before making an official announcement. On the next day, it was revealed that LaRoche's reason for a possible retirement was that the White Sox had placed a restriction on his 14-year-old son entering the team's clubhouse every day. By retiring, LaRoche walked away from a $13 million contract. The following day, teammates were close to boycotting their spring training game until manager Robin Ventura stepped in and told the players to play. White Sox executive vice president Kenny Williams defended his request by stating \"name one job in the country where you can bring your child to work every day.\"\n\nLaRoche and his wife Jennifer have a daughter, Montana, and a son, Drake. His hobbies include fishing, hunting, and golf. He is the son of former Major League pitcher Dave LaRoche and older brother of Andy LaRoche.\n\nLaRoche suffers from ADHD that was diagnosed during his high school years, which occasionally leads to on field blunders such as in a game against the Washington Nationals in 2006, when he picked up a Nick Johnson ground ball that should have resulted in the third out of the inning, but did not move quickly to step on first base. Johnson beat LaRoche to the base; the inning continued, and the Nationals scored four unearned runs. Washington won 8-1, and LaRoche was benched for the next game.\n\nLaRoche is one of the co-owners of Outdoor Networks hunting show \"Buck Commander\" with friends and pro athletes Chipper Jones, Ryan Langerhans, Tom Martin, Luke Bryan, Jason Aldean, and Willie Robertson who is from the \"Duck Commander\" series.\n\nLaRoche is a devout Christian. LaRoche helped the Washington Nationals promote \"Faith Day\" at Nationals Park along with teammates Denard Span and Ian Desmond. LaRoche was raised Christian but did not embrace his faith until asking himself, \"Why are we here? What is our purpose on this earth?\" He believes the answer is \"to spread God’s word\" and told the \"Washington Times\", \"I heard one chaplain put it this way: What do you want written on your tombstone? Do you want ‘Adam LaRoche: Gold Glove, batting average, hit so many homers, and has a million dollars in his bank account,’ or do you want ‘Adam LaRoche: Man of God, integrity, raised a great family, loving.’ Let’s be honest: I don’t know anybody who wants their stats.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2096047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096047", "title": "Ronald Sugar", "text": "Ronald Sugar\n\nRonald D. Sugar (born July 30, 1948) is an American business executive. He served as the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the Northrop Grumman Corporation from 2003 to 2009. On August 1, 2018 he was unanimously elected as independent Chairman of Uber.\n\nRonald D. Sugar was born on July 30, 1948. He received a PhD in electrical engineering from UCLA in 1971 after he graduated \"summa cum laude\" in engineering from the University of California, Los Angeles in 1968.\n\nSugar served as the president and chief operating officer of TRW Aerospace and Information Systems. From 2000 to 2001, he served as the president and chief operating officer of Litton Industries, Inc.. He then served as the president and chief operating officer of Northrop Grumman Corporation from 2001 to 2003, and as its chairman and CEO from 2003 to 2009. He was succeeded by Wesley G. Bush.\n\nSugar has also been a director of Chevron Corporation since 2005 and Apple, Inc. since 2010. \nHe is a member of the Board of Trustees of the University of Southern California.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096057", "title": "TFP", "text": "TFP\n\nTFP may stand for:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096058", "title": "Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory", "text": "Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory\n\nThe Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory (PMEL) is a laboratory in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR). It is one of seven NOAA Research Laboratories (RLs). The PMEL is split across two sites in the Pacific Northwest, in Seattle, Washington and Newport, Oregon.\n\nPMEL carries out interdisciplinary scientific investigations in oceanography and atmospheric science to improve our understanding of the complex physical and geochemical processes operating in the world oceans, especially the Pacific Ocean, to define the forcing functions and the processes driving ocean circulation and the global climate system, and to improve environmental forecasting capabilities and other supporting services for marine commerce and fisheries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096063", "title": "The Arm of the Starfish", "text": "The Arm of the Starfish\n\nThe Arm of the Starfish is a young adult novel by Madeleine L'Engle, first published in 1965. It is the first novel featuring Polly O'Keefe and the O'Keefe family, a generation after the events of \"A Wrinkle in Time\" (1962). The plot concerning advanced regeneration research puts this novel in the science fiction genre, but it could also be described as a mystery thriller.\n\nThe plot centers on a young marine biology student named Adam Eddington, who travels to the remote island Gaea off the coast of Portugal for a summer job working for a famous scientist, Calvin O'Keefe. Even before he leaves JFK airport, Adam is approached by Carolyn (\"Kali\") Cutter, the beautiful, well-traveled daughter of a rich American industrialist living in Europe. She warns Adam against yet another passenger, Canon Tallis. Tallis is accompanying Calvin O'Keefe's eldest daughter, 12-year-old Polly O'Keefe, to Geneva, but bad weather and mysterious dangers derail those plans.\n\nInstead, Adam finds himself shepherding Polly on a short flight from Madrid to Lisbon. When Polly uses the restroom during the flight, she seems to disappear from the airplane completely, and the flight crew denies she was ever on board. Kali's father, Typhon Cutter, later enables Adam to rescue Polly from her kidnappers, deepening Adam's confusion about whom to trust. As the plot unfolds, it becomes clear that at least two different factions have equally strong but differently motivated interests in Dr. O'Keefe's research on organ regeneration. Adam faces a number of ethical dilemmas as he is forced to choose between these factions.\n\nEventually Adam realizes that the O'Keefes are the ones who care about \"the fall of the sparrow,\" as their friend Joshua Archer puts it, a Biblical allusion to caring about others, even the seemingly weak and unimportant. Adam wants nothing further to do with Kali and her ruthless father, but the O'Keefes ask him to make a date with Kali anyway, so that Adam can act as a double agent, passing along fake research papers to the Cutters and smuggling the real ones out to trusted people in Lisbon. Adam reluctantly agrees.\n\nThis plan is complicated, however, by Kali's unexpected claim that she has learned of her father's perfidy, and wants Adam to protect her and keep her confidences. Adam's attempt to do so makes it nearly impossible to pass on the real papers, hampered as he is by Kali's presence and spies from both sides. Eventually Joshua comes to Adam's rescue, but is shot dead; and Adam learns that Kali was acting on her father's behalf all along. The Cutters are arrested but have enough money to pay for their freedom.\n\nLater, Adam goes back to the Cutters' hotel to retrieve his passport from Kali. Playfully, she makes him chase her into the ocean, where she is attacked by a shark. Adam uses a special knife Polly gave him to fight off the shark and get Kali to shore. O'Keefe uses his experimental knowledge about limb regeneration to help Kali.\n\nIntelligent, principled and a bit naive, 16-year-old Adam Eddington is a biology major who has been interning at Woods Hole, Massachusetts in the summers, until \"Old Doc\" Didymus sends him to work with Calvin O'Keefe instead. \"The Arm of the Starfish\" is Adam's first appearance in L'Engle's novels, and his only appearance in the O'Keefe series. He later appears in the Austin family novels \"A Ring of Endless Light\" and \"Troubling a Star\".\n\n12-year-old Poly is red-haired, and describes herself as having measurements of \"twenty, twenty, twenty.\" Intelligent, inquisitive and loving, Poly speaks English, Spanish, German, Portuguese, Russian, and Gaean. \"The Arm of the Starfish\" is Poly's first appearance, as such, but Meg Murry O'Keefe was pregnant with her at the time of \"A Swiftly Tilting Planet\". Her unusual first name was bestowed on her by Canon Tallis, after which the O'Keefes did not allow him to name their other children. In later books, Poly begins to spell her name Polly to avoid awkward explanations about being named after Polyhymnia, the Greek muse of sacred music, and to keep people from pronouncing it with a long o.\n\nCharles O'Keefe is Poly's eldest younger brother, the closest to her in both age and companionship. Quiet, thoughtful and empathic, Charles shows signs of having special mental abilities, much like Charles Wallace Murry, the uncle for whom he is named.\n\nCanon Tallis is a bald clergyman with no eyebrows, said to have lost his hair due to withstanding torture in Korea. Brusque and incisive, and not at all pious by L'Engle's definition, he defies the conventional image of a priest, and seems more than a little sinister to Adam at first. An Episcopal Canon, he is surprisingly adept (but not perfect) at navigating the dangerous waters of international intrigue. Canon Tallis reappears in the Austin family novel \"The Young Unicorns\", where he is attached to the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, the same cathedral where Madeleine L'Engle was writer in residence for many years. He also appears in the second O'Keefe family novel, \"Dragons in the Waters\". Tallis is nicknamed \"Tom\" or \"Father Tom\" because of the historical composer Thomas Tallis, who wrote the \"Tallis Canon\".\n\nCalvin O'Keefe is a marine biologist, husband of Meg, and the father of seven children, the eldest of whom is Poly. Calvin first appeared in \"A Wrinkle in Time\", as a 14-year-old high school junior, a popular and athletic but neglected adolescent from a family with eleven children. As an adult, Calvin is a loving and attentive father. He was also an embasador.\n\nMeg O'Keefe is the former Meg Murry, who rescued her father from the planet Camazotz in \"A Wrinkle in Time\". As of \"The Arm of the Starfish\", she is a scientist and mathematician (albeit without a doctorate) who assists Calvin with his work, while also helping to raise her large family. In contrast to her awkward adolescence, she is described as \"a tall, strikingly beautiful woman\" as an adult.\n\nMany of the characters in \"The Arm of the Starfish\" are named after Biblical or religious figures. The surname of the duplicitous Dr. Eliphaz Ball is initially misunderstood by Adam as Baal, a name given to a number of deities considered \"false gods\" by the Hebrews in ancient times. The name \"Eliphaz\" recalls the name of one of the comforters of Job; the Biblical Eliphaz believed that the righteous and just did not suffer, but that secret sins might be punished by God—a belief stated at the end of the Book of Job to be wrong. Canon Tallis is named after English liturgical composer Thomas Tallis, and of course the name Adam is from Genesis.\n\nThe concierge at the Ritz Hotel is called Arcangelo. Doc Didymus shares a name with the Apostle Thomas as well as the ecclesiastical writer Didymus the Blind. There is even a special dolphin named after a famed 4th century Cappadoccian ascetic, Macrina, who apparently has two brothers Gregory (i.e. Saint Gregory of Nyssa) and Basil (i.e. Basil the Great of Caesarea). (The name Basil is later reused for another dolphin of Adam's acquaintance in \"A Ring of Endless Light\".) Macrina's mended fin evokes the historical Macrina's scar, which her brother Gregory writes about in his \"Life of Macrina\".\n\nClassical names used in the book include Polyhymnia, the fictional Portuguese island of Gaea, named for a Greek goddess associated with the Earth, and Typhon, the deadliest monster in Greek mythology and the legendary \"Father of Monsters.\"\n\nFinally, the names of Kali Cutter and Joshua Archer are significant. Kali is the name of the Hindu goddess of change, power and destruction, while the girl's surname indicates that she and her father have the power to cut (i.e., wound) others, both figuratively and literally. Joshua, by contrast, bears the Hebrew name of two Biblical figures: Joshua, a commander who fought at God's command, and Jesus.\n\nAt the time of the book's publication, \"Kirkus Reviews\" said, \"As the conflict becomes more pronounced, the story gets weaker. The personal probe is valid although many may disagree with the answers, and it accompanies some solidly detailed, excitingly sustained adventure.\" Robert Hood wrote in \"The New York Times\", \"Tense, tricky, well-plotted, 'The Arm of the Starfish' has all the stuff of which adult spy novels are made. From the moment you meet the 16-year-old hero, until the conclusion of his exotic adventures, the story moves like a missile to target.\"\n\n\"The Arm of the Starfish\" is the first of four novels about Poly (later called Polly) and the O'Keefe family. The other three are \"Dragons in the Waters\" (1976), \"A House Like a Lotus\" (1984) and \"An Acceptable Time\" (1989). \"The Arm of the Starfish\" takes place about twelve to thirteen years after the events of \"A Swiftly Tilting Planet\", the last of the Time Quartet of books about the Murry family. The Murry-O'Keefe books are said to take place in Kairos time, as opposed to Chronos or ordinary time. As such they cannot easily be pinned down as taking place in a particular year or even a particular decade. This is partly a problem of time continuity, arising from the fact that the books were written over a period of several decades. However, L'Engle's use of the term Kairos (which she describes inside the front cover of \"Many Waters\" as \"real time, pure numbers with no measurement\") suggests a religious connotation as well. The second generation O'Keefe books were written concurrently with the Time Quartet (eventually Time Quintet), with \"The Arm of the Starfish\" appearing just three years after \"A Wrinkle in Time\". The final book in the O'Keefe series, \"An Acceptable Time\", is also the final book of the Time Quintet.\n\nThe Murry-O'Keefe books have further connections with other L'Engle titles. The Austin family books have three major crossover characters in common with the O'Keefe books, two of whom are introduced in \"The Arm of the Starfish\". Canon Tallis meets the Austins in \"The Young Unicorns\", which takes place a few months after \"Starfish\". Adam Eddington meets Vicky Austin the following summer in \"A Ring of Endless Light\", and Meg and Charles Wallace are mentioned in \"The Moon by Night\". The Austin family series is associated with Chronos instead of Kairos.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096075", "title": "William Seymour, 3rd Duke of Somerset", "text": "William Seymour, 3rd Duke of Somerset\n\nWilliam Seymour, 3rd Duke of Somerset (17 April 165212 December 1671) was the son of Henry Seymour, Lord Beauchamp, and Mary Capell. As both his father and two elder uncles had predeceased him, he succeeded to the dukedom on the death of his grandfather William Seymour.\n\nHe died in 1671, unmarried and childless and was succeeded by his paternal uncle John Seymour.\n"}
{"id": "2096083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096083", "title": "James Robb", "text": "James Robb\n\nJames Robb may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2096087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096087", "title": "Kaity Tong", "text": "Kaity Tong\n\nKaity Tong (; born July 23, 1947) is a Chinese-born American broadcast journalist. She has been a television news anchor in New York City since 1981.\n\nKaity (pronounced \"kite-ee\") Tong was born in Qingdao, China and arrived in the United States with her family at age four. Her parents anglicized their names to George and Anita Tong. She became a United States citizen in 1985. Growing up in Washington, D.C., she was inspired to become a journalist by her great-uncle, Hollington Tong, an ambassador to the US from China as well as an acclaimed author. Her mother worked for the Voice of America as a broadcaster and producer in Washington, D.C.\n\nKaity attended Bryn Mawr College on an academic scholarship. She graduated with honors with a bachelor of arts degree in English literature. She was accepted to the doctoral program of Stanford University in Chinese and Japanese literature, and she intended to be an instructor in English literature. However, while at Stanford, Tong began her broadcasting career, getting what she thought would be a summer job as morning editor and producer for KPIX-TV All-News Radio in San Francisco. The summer job turned into a year-long stint at the radio station which was the top all-news station in San Francisco. Tong managed to complete her master's degree in Asian studies but was sidetracked by the news business.\n\nTong's television career began as a reporter for KPIX-TV in San Francisco, where she worked from 1976 to 1979. Originally hired as a writer for the station, Tong was asked to do an on-air test and was immediately promoted to a street reporter, where her first on-air story was a report on the new carts that transported people around the airport. In December 1979, she became co-anchor of the 5 p.m. and 11 p.m. newscasts on KCRA-TV in Sacramento, California where she soon became number one-rated out of all the television news personalities in Sacramento.\n\nReferring to the difficulties of having a family and career, she said at the time: \"Anchoring is fun. At one time I wanted to be a network reporter, but now I think that is too difficult a life. One of these days I want to have a baby.\" In 1981, she moved to WABC-TV in New York City. Within two years, she became co-anchor of the station's 5 p.m. and 11 p.m. newscasts, first with Tom Snyder from 1983 to 1984 and later with Ernie Anastos until 1986.\n\nShe moved to the 6 p.m. newscast, rotating the anchor chair with John Johnson alongside Bill Beutel after Roger Grimsby was fired in 1986, while still co-anchoring the 11 p.m. broadcast with Anastos until he left for WCBS in 1989. Eventually her sole anchor role was the 11 p.m. news, as Beutel became solo anchor of the 6 p.m. broadcast. In 1984, she appeared as herself, reporting on the defection of the Soviet circus performer played by Robin Williams in feature film \"Moscow on the Hudson\". She has also played a newscaster in \"Wolf\", \"City Hall\", \"Marci X\", \"Night Falls on Manhattan\", and 2004 remake of \"The Manchurian Candidate\".\n\nHer firing from WABC-TV in 1991 caused considerable outrage. She was replaced by Susan Roesgen, who came from a small Midwestern station and who never adjusted to New York, lasting only a year on WABC-TV. A \"Coalition of Asian-American New Yorkers\" suggested that Tong's Chinese-American background was the reason. Other supporters of Tong cited her age, which was over 40 at the time, as a main reason for her firing. Station management stated that Tong was released due to her high salary which was $750,000 per year at the time (the equivalent to $1,353,965 in 2017). Capital Cities/ABC chairman Thomas Murphy said it was \"strictly a business decision.\"\n\nAccording to Tong, her direct boss Channel 7 Vice President and General Manager Walter Liss acknowledged that Tong's newscast at 11 p.m. had the highest ranking in that time slot, but he wanted \"...a much bigger No. 1\", and had a vision of what the ideal look of how television should be in the 1990s. Tong declined to repeat specifically what Liss's vision was, other than to say, \"I am trying hard to take the high road in all of this.\"\n\nIn early 1992, Tong joined WPIX as the station's top female anchor and has been there ever since. She co-anchored the station's 10 p.m. newscast with Marvin Scott from January 1992 to September 1992, with Jack Cafferty from September 1992 to October 1998, and with Jim Watkins from October 1998 to 2010, when Watkins was fired.\n\nShe has since been weekend anchor for the station. Tong was involved in a 2010 lawsuit by former news director Karen Scott against WPIX for age discrimination when Scott and other veteran broadcast personnel lost their jobs, later testifying in court.\n\nIn January 2016, Tong returned to weekdays, co-anchoring a new 6:30 p.m. newscast alongside longtime WWOR anchor Brenda Blackmon. However, in September 2016, the newscast was cancelled and Tong was moved back to weekends.\n\nTong joined Gloria Steinem and Beverly Sills by receiving the Exceptional Achievement Award from The Women's Project. She was the first woman honored by Rotary International with its Paul Harris Fellowship. She was also honored with a Star award by the New York Women's Agenda. She has been recognized by the Chinese America Arts Council for her excellence in communication.\n\nShe received a Distinguished Woman award from the Chinese-American Planning Council and a Champion of Excellence Award from the Organization of Chinese Americans. A naturalized citizen, Tong received the Ellis Island Medal of Honor for her work.\n\nIn 2018, the New York Chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences awarded Tong the Governor's Emmy Award “for her four decades of presenting the news with integrity and compassion.”\n\nHer name has inspired many first-generation Chinese-American parents to name their New York-born children after her. However, it is often anglicized as Katie. \n\nTong has a son, Philip Long, from her first marriage to Robert Long, former news director and a vice-president at Los Angeles's KNBC-TV until September 25, 2009. \nShe later married photographer Patrick Callahan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096120", "title": "Peri-Banu (crater)", "text": "Peri-Banu (crater)\n\nPeri-Banu is a crater in the northern hemisphere of Saturn's moon Enceladus. Peri-Banu was first discovered in \"Voyager 2\" images but was seen at much higher resolution, though near the terminator, by \"Cassini\". It is located at 62° North Latitude, 322.9° West Longitude and is 18 kilometers across. The western portion of the crater is largely absent, either buried or disrupted by the eastern margin of Samarkand Sulci. A large, dome-like structure occupies the interior of the crater, caused by infill of material from Samarkand Sulci or from viscous relaxation.\n\nThe name comes from Pari-Banou, a genie-woman from \"Arabian Nights\", incarnation of beauty, who marries Ahmed and helps him fulfill the demands of his father.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096126", "title": "Jean-Émile Charon", "text": "Jean-Émile Charon\n\nJean-Émile Charon (; 25 February 1920, in Paris – June 1998, in Paris) was a French nuclear physicist, philosopher and writer. He was the author of over 20 books on physics, scientific philosophy, and computer science. He conducted nuclear research at France's Commissariat à l'énergie atomique (Atomic Energy Authority).\n\nCharon muses in his book \"The Spirit: That Stranger Inside Us\" (2004): \"There are microscopic individualities inside every human. They think, they know, and (they) carry Spirit in the Universe.\" Charon chooses to call these individual beings of intelligence, \"eons.\" They are otherwise known as electrons. Each electron or \"eon\" is an enclosed space, a thinking entity, intelligence, and even a micro-universe. But this is an inaccurate way of speaking about them, because as Michael Talbot warns us in \"The Holographic Universe\" (1991), \"the only time quanta ever manifest as particles is when we are looking at them.\" Thus, it would be more accurate to think of these beings in terms of wave interference patterns.\n\n\"You are the 'spiritual intersection' of all these particles,\" continues Charon \"Your eons will remember you, your 'I,' for all their lives. They'll carry it with them in their future life….And this future life in the body of eons will be very long, almost as long as the Universe itself.\" Suggests Charon, \"the electrons which form my body are not only carriers of what I call 'my' spirit, but, in fact constitute my spirit itself.\" Electrons are sent individually into the Universe to learn and to increase the order of the Universe; \"the psychic level of the whole Universe progressively elevates itself…during the 'successively lived experiences' of elemental matter.\" The goal of each electron is to increase its energy to the highest level of sustainable excitement; that is, to contain the most information within the largest stable system of organization possible. The electron becomes part of increasingly more complex forms; living the life cycle of that form. At the death of that form, electrons leave the body, taking their informational energy with them.\n\nThe goal of the electron is developing the order of its Spirit. There are four psychic forces that organize living forms into entities of increasing energy or order: reflection, knowledge, love, and action. As the order grows, so do the psychic properties.\n\nEcstasy, says Charon, is the higher level of excitement felt when the electron fills one plane with photon energy, to the threshold at which it jumps to the next quantum level—ignites, until the entire system is fully energized.\n\n\"(A)n interaction of 'internal Love' exists among the electrons of our body, alongside the interaction of 'external Love,' between our electrons and those of 'others'.\" By linking with the 'other' through love or knowledge, the electron increases its order and ability to hold organized energy. \"It finally increases its spiritual faculties; its 'consciousness'….To grow spiritually is to project more of our Love toward 'others'.\" \"Love is the simplest and most efficient process to increase negentropy (order) in the Universe.\" Charon explains addiction to TV, computers, and music listening in terms of the attraction of our electrons to that which increases order and energy to their informational richness. It is an inbuilt desire to become part of that larger order. This also explains the phenomenon of mob mind.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096131", "title": "The Wild Ones (song)", "text": "The Wild Ones (song)\n\n\"The Wild Ones\" is the second single from the album \"Dog Man Star\" by Suede, released on 14 November 1994 on Nude Records. The song peaked at #18 in the UK.\n\nThe ballad is considered a favourite among fans and is one of their most notable songs of this period. Brett Anderson has said on numerous occasions that he regards this song as not only the high-water mark of his writing partnership with Bernard Butler, but his favourite of all Suede songs. The song is one of several notable Suede songs including \"So Young\" and \"Stay Together\", which were inspired by Anderson's ex-girlfriend Anick.\n\nThe B-side, \"Modern Boys\", appears as an album track in the US edition of \"Dog Man Star\". The single also features a version of \"Introducing the Band\" by electronic pioneer Brian Eno. Another B-side, \"This World Needs a Father\" is the only Suede song to feature input from both Bernard Butler and Richard Oakes. While the band were putting the final touches to the album, producer Ed Buller felt that the song needed more work and offered new guitarist Oakes to play Hammond organ.\n\n\"The Wild Ones\" music video was filmed in Dartmoor and was directed by Howard Greenhalgh. The band met Greenhalgh at the MTV Video Music Awards in New York on a promo trip, where he won best video for Soundgarden's \"Black Hole Sun\". One of the band's few big-budget videos, it cost £150,000, most of it for computer special effects. Although Anderson is a fan of the song, he dislikes the music video. While promoting album \"Night Thoughts\" in 2016, he said: \"That [video] really annoys me, because it’s the greatest song Suede ever wrote, and it’s got this awful video. It makes me shiver. That fucking video gives me night thoughts.\"\n\n\"Music & Media\" wrote: \"For the first time, the Anderson assembly live up to their name. Semi-acoustic with violins and all, bad ass Brett recalls forgotten heroes like Ian McCulloch and Scott Walker.\" Linda Ryan of the \"Gavin Report\" felt the song marked a major change in the band’s songwriting, by evoking classic country songwriters’ tales of \"what might’ve beens.\" She considered it a \"more serious songwriting effort... a far cry from the tawdry lust that clung to many songs on the band’s debut. Just beautiful.\"\n\nIn 2014, \"NME\" ranked the song at number 370 in its list of the \"500 Greatest Songs of All Time\". Canadian rock band Destroyer, named their 2017 album \"ken\" after the song’s original title.\n\nAll songs written by Brett Anderson and Bernard Butler except where noted.\n\n12\" vinyl\n\nCassette\n\nCD1\n\nCD2\n"}
{"id": "2096134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096134", "title": "Norðri, Suðri, Austri and Vestri", "text": "Norðri, Suðri, Austri and Vestri\n\nIn Norse mythology, Norðri, Suðri, Austri and Vestri (\"Northern, Southern, Eastern and Western\") are four dwarves in the \"Prose Edda\" book \"Gylfaginning\" who each support one of the four cardinal points. Together, they uphold the heavenly dome, created from the skull of the jötunn Ymir. They probably represent the four winds, corresponding to the four stags of the cosmic tree Yggdrasil.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096142", "title": "Quest (video games)", "text": "Quest (video games)\n\nA quest, or mission, is a task in video games that a player-controlled character, party, or group of characters may complete in order to gain a reward. Quests are most commonly seen in role-playing games and massively multiplayer online games. Rewards may include loot such as items or in-game currency, access to new level locations or areas, an increase in the character's experience in order to learn new skills and abilities, or any combination of the above.\n\nQuests often fall into several types, such as kill quests, gather quests, delivery/\"fetch\" quests, and escort quests. However, quests can include more than one mission, such as gathering something and transporting it somewhere. Quests can be linked together to form quest series or chains. In this manner, quests are used to provide the player with further background to the setting their characters are in. This mechanism is also used to advance any story or plot the game might have.\n\nMany types of quests are referred to as \"sidequests\". These are quests which deviate from the main plot and are not required to complete the game.\n\nIn the most general sense, a quest is a \"hunt for a specific outcome\", in contrast to simply winning a game. Typical quests involve killing a set number of creatures or collecting a list of specific items. Some quests may take only a few minutes or hours to complete, while others may take several days or weeks. Often, the larger the reward, the longer the quest takes to finish, and it is common for a quest to require characters to have met a certain set of pre-conditions before they are allowed to begin.\n\nQuesting is a tool used in role-playing games to avoid putting players in a position where they only perform a repetitive action, such as killing creatures. Players may be performing this activity in order to gain new skills and progress to new areas, or to gain in-game money in order to buy new items, such as armor and equipment. This process, commonly known as \"grinding\", can slow down a character's progression in the game and ultimately limit the player's enjoyment. Having a number of quests for characters to tackle is seen as a way to provide variety, and to counter the need to grind in these types of games.\nA \"sidequest\" is an optional section of a video game, and is commonly found in role-playing video game. It is a smaller mission within a larger storyline, and can be used as a means to provide non-linear structures to an otherwise linear plot. As a general rule, the completion of sidequests is not essential for the game to be finished, but can bring various benefits to the player characters.\n\nA \"kill quest\" sends the character out to kill either a specific number of named creatures, or a specific NPC (non-player character). These types of quests often require the character to bring back proof of their work, such as trophies, or body parts (boar tusks, wolf pelts, etc.).\n\nThe \"combo quest\" requires a player to attack certain enemies or structures with a combination of attacks until the required number of combos is reached. Enemies in these quests are usually either immortal or infinite in number, until the player is successful. At this point, the enemies would either be killed, or stop appearing.\n\nAnother type of quest is the \"delivery quest\", also known as a FedEx quest or fetch-carry quest. This involves the character being sent to deliver an item from one location to another. Sometimes, the character may need to collect the item first, instead of being handed the item to deliver when starting the quest. These quests are made challenging by asking the character to journey through unfamiliar or dangerous terrain, sometimes while facing a time limit.\n\n\"Gather quests\", also known as collection quests or fetch quests, require a character to collect a number of items. These can either be gathered from a location or environment, or require the character to kill creatures in order to collect the required items. The quest may also require the character to collect a number of different items, for example to assemble a device. This type of quest is often criticized for being tedious, and for padding the game's length.\n\nThe \"Escort quest\" is a combination of killing enemies to maintain the well-being of a non-player character (NPC), while exploring an area alongside that NPC. A typical escort quest would involve protecting a character as he or she moves through an enemy-infested area. A majority of the time, the quest will demand the player to slay multiple enemies to ensure the safety of the NPC. Escort quests can be beneficial, forcing the players to focus on a particular area in order to play out a scene or reveal a section of the plot. Escort quests can also be used to funnel a character from one location to another, leading the player along a route or path. However, problems with this type of quest can occur if the artificial intelligence controlling the NPC causes the NPC to behave in unexpected or unmanageable ways. Because many escort quests are often perceived as being poorly done, they are very unpopular amongst the gaming community.\n\nA phenomenon unique to text-based games, syntax quests depend on guessing the correct syntax to use to carry out a (typically simple) operation.\n\nElements from the above types can be combined to make more complex quests. For example, a quest could require that the player find the parts needed to assemble a specific weapon (Gather Quest), and then use these parts to kill a specific foe (Kill quest). Hybrid quests may also include puzzles and riddles.\n\nA \"quest chain\" is a group of quests which are completed in sequence. Quest chains are also known as \"quest lines\". Completion of each quest is a prerequisite to beginning the next quest in the chain. Quests usually increase in difficulty as a player progresses through the chain. The quests typically reveal a single plotline in stages that explain the reason for the quests. Quest chains can also start with opening or \"breadcrumb\" quests, in order to encourage characters to journey to a new area, where further elements of the quest chain are revealed. Through mechanisms like these, the setting of a particular location is explained to the player, with the plot or storyline being disclosed as the character progresses.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096151", "title": "Mozilla Application Suite", "text": "Mozilla Application Suite\n\nThe Mozilla Application Suite (originally known as Mozilla, marketed as the Mozilla Suite) is a discontinued cross-platform integrated Internet suite. Its development was initiated by Netscape Communications Corporation, before their acquisition by AOL. It was based on the source code of Netscape Communicator. The development was spearheaded by the Mozilla Organization from 1998 to 2003, and by the Mozilla Foundation from 2003 to 2006.\n\nThe project has been superseded by the SeaMonkey Internet suite (SeaMonkey was the original code name for the project), a community-driven Internet suite that is based on the same source code, and continues to be developed with the newer Mozilla codebase.\n\nThe Mozilla Suite was composed of several main programs: \"Navigator\" (a Web browser), \"Communicator\" (Mozilla Mail & Newsgroups), a Web page developer (Mozilla Composer), an IRC client (ChatZilla) and an electronic address book. Also included were tools to synchronize the application with PalmPilot devices, and several extensions for advanced Web development, including the DOM Inspector, and Venkman (a JavaScript debugger).\n\nVersions 6 and 7 of the Netscape suite were based on the Mozilla Suite. The last official version is 1.7.13, as Mozilla Foundation is currently focusing on the development of Firefox and Thunderbird. The Mozilla Suite is available under the terms of the Mozilla project's tri-license, as free and open-source software.\n\nIn March 1998, Netscape released most of the code base for its popular Netscape Communicator suite under an open source license. The name of the application developed from this would be Mozilla, coordinated by the newly created Mozilla Organization, at the mozilla.org Web site. Although large parts of the original Communicator code, including the layout engine and front-end related codes, were abandoned shortly thereafter, the Mozilla Organization eventually succeeded in producing a full-featured Internet suite that surpassed Communicator in features, stability and degree of standards compliance.\n\nUnder the AOL banner, the Mozilla Organization continued development of the browser and management of the Mozilla source until July 2003 when this task was passed to the Mozilla Foundation. The Foundation is a non-profit organization composed primarily of developers and staff from mozilla.org and owns the Mozilla trademark (but not the copyright to the source code, which is retained by the individual and corporate contributors, but licensed under the terms of the GPL and MPL). It received initial donations from AOL, IBM, Sun Microsystems, Red Hat, and Mitch Kapor. However, all official ties with AOL were severed following the announcement of the end of the Netscape Navigator browser and AOL's agreement to use Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser in future versions of its AOL software. AOL has since announced it will be using Mozilla's Gecko layout engine.\n\nAccording to the Mozilla development roadmap published on April 2, 2003, the Mozilla Organization planned to focus development efforts on the new standalone applications: Phoenix (now known as Mozilla Firefox) and Minotaur (now known as Mozilla Thunderbird). To distinguish the suite from the standalone products, the suite is marketed as \"Mozilla Suite\" or the more lengthy \"Mozilla Application Suite\".\n\nOn March 10, 2005, the Mozilla Foundation announced that they would not release any further official versions of the suite beyond 1.7.x. However, the Mozilla Foundation emphasized that they would provide infrastructure for community members who wished to continue development. In effect, this means that the suite will still continue to be developed, but not by the Mozilla Foundation itself. To avoid confusing organizations that still want to use the Mozilla Suite, it was announced that the new, community-developed product would be named \"SeaMonkey\", with version numbers that start at \"1.0\".\n\nMozilla supported tabbed browsing, which allows users to open multiple Web pages in the same browser window. Originally only available through the MultiZilla extension, the feature was then implemented directly within the browser. Mozilla also belonged in the group of browsers who early on adopted customizable pop-up blocking, and granular cookie management, including cookie prompts.\n\nThe browser had a number of features which helped users find information. First, Mozilla had an incremental find feature known as \"find as you type\". With this feature enabled, a user could simply begin typing a word while viewing a Web page, and the browser automatically searched for it and highlighted the first instance found. As the user typed more of the word, the browser refined its search.\n\nAdditionally, Mozilla supported the \"custom keyword\" feature. This feature allowed users to access their bookmarks from the location bar using keywords (and an optional query parameter). For example, using a custom keyword, a user could type \"google apple\" into the address bar and be redirected to the results of a Google search for \"apple\".\n\nFor the mail and newsgroup component, the built-in Bayesian e-mail spam filter could effectively filter out unwanted e-mail spam after a period of training.\n\nMozilla introduced the extension model, which was expanded and improved by Firefox and Thunderbird. Through extensions (installed via XPInstall modules), users might activate new features, such as mouse gestures, advertisement blocking, proxy server switching, and debugging tools.\n\nOne can view the extension system as a ground for experimentation, where one can test new functionalities. Occasionally, an extension, or a part of it, became part of the official product (for example MultiZilla's tabbed browsing feature eventually became part of the standard Mozilla).\n\nMozilla also supported a variety of themes/skins, which changed its appearance. Themes consisted of packages of CSS and image files. The Mozilla Add-ons Web site offered many themes. Beyond adding a new theme, users could customize its interface by adding and removing some of its buttons and toolbars.\n\nAdditionally, Mozilla stored most of its preferences in a list that users could access by typing config in the address bar. Some preferences were only available through it, like turning on bookmark icons.\n\nThe Mozilla Foundation took pride in Mozilla's compliance with existing standards, especially W3C Web standards. Mozilla had extensive support for most basic standards at the time including HTML, XML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, MathML, DTD, XSLT and XPath.\n\nMozilla also supported PNG images and variable transparency, (which Internet Explorer only supported fully in version 7). Indeed, Internet Explorer's lack of support for PNG images has occasioned much debate, as many Web developers wanted to move away from the old GIF format, which does not have the same capabilities and image quality as PNG.\n\nMozilla had implemented most of CSS Level 2 and some of the not-yet-completed CSS Level 3 standard. It was among the first browsers to pass the original Box Acid Test, although it doesn't fully pass the more rigorous Acid2 test for HTML, CSS, and PNG standards support. Other browsers based on newer versions of Mozilla's core technology, however, pass the Acid2 test.\n\nThe mail and newsgroup supported POP and IMAP. It also supported LDAP address completion. Both reading and writing of HTML e-mails were supported. Mail files were stored in mbox format, and were thus portable.\n\nThe first version of the suite, i.e., the one that formed the basis of Netscape 6, did not support the blink element, thus making it the only Netscape/Mozilla browser that has not supported the notorious tag that Netscape itself created. Later versions of the suite supported the element as well as the marquee tag, originally created by rival Internet Explorer.\n\nMozilla ran on a wide variety of platforms. Releases available on the primary distribution site supported the following operating systems:\n\nMozilla used the same format to store users' profiles (which contain their personal browser settings) even on different operating systems, so a profile might be used on multiple platforms, as long as all of the platforms could access the profile (e.g., the profile was stored on a FAT32 partition accessible from both Windows and Linux). This functionality was useful for users who dual-boot their machines. However, it might occasionally cause problems, especially with extensions.\n\nMozilla came with three Web development tools — a DOM Inspector, Venkman and JavaScript Console. The DOM Inspector was not available in non-Mozilla browsers, and the JavaScript Console was more advanced than the consoles available in non-Mozilla browsers. Venkman was a difficult to use but decent JavaScript debugger. These were installed by default, though you could opt them out (except for the JavaScript Console) with the other install options.\n\nMozilla was designed with security in mind. Among its key features were the use of the sandbox security model, same origin policy and external protocol whitelisting.\n\nOne key characteristic of Mozilla security was that its source code is visible to everyone. Proposed software changes were reviewed by at least one other person, and typically \"super-reviewed\" by yet another, and once placed in the software were visible for anyone else to consider, protest, or improve.\n\nIn addition, the Mozilla Foundation operated a \"bug bounty\" scheme: Users who reported a valid critical security bug received a US$500 cash reward for each report and a Mozilla T-shirt. The purpose of this \"bug bounty\" system, according to the Mozilla Foundation, was to \"encourage more people to find and report security bugs in our products, so that we can make our products even more secure than they already are\". Anyone in the world could report a bug. Also, access to the source code of Mozilla Firefox, internal design documentation, forum discussions, and other materials that could be helpful in finding bugs were available to anyone.\n\nThe Mozilla Foundation has issued a security bugs policy to help contributors to deal with security vulnerabilities. The policy restricts access to a security-related bug report to members of the security team until after Mozilla has shipped a fix for the problem. This is intended to deter the exploitation of publicly known vulnerabilities and give the developers time to issue a patch. While similar to other \"responsible disclosure\" policies issued by companies such as Microsoft, this policy is opposed to the full disclosure principle favored by some security researchers.\n\nAs of June 2005, Secunia had reported three unpatched vulnerabilities in Mozilla with the most serious one marked \"less critical\".\n\nFrom 1998 to 2004, the global usage share of Mozilla grew from a negligible amount to about 3%. Because of the Foundation's plan to switch development focus to standalone applications such as Firefox and Thunderbird, many new features and enhancements were not available for Mozilla. This, combined with the community marketing effort named \"Spread Firefox\", drew more and more users away from Mozilla since late 2004, when Firefox 1.0 was released. There were no official releases of the Mozilla Suite beyond version 1.7.13. As of 2008, Mozilla Suite usage share was approximately 0.1%. SeaMonkey, a community-driven Internet suite that is based on the same source code, is pursued by those that appreciated Mozilla's feature set.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096158", "title": "Space Weather Prediction Center", "text": "Space Weather Prediction Center\n\nThe Space Weather Prediction Center (SWPC), named the Space Environment Center (SEC) until 2007, is a laboratory and service center of the US National Weather Service (NWS), part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), located in Boulder, Colorado. SWPC continually monitors and forecasts Earth's space environment, providing solar-terrestrial information. SWPC is the official source of space weather alerts and warnings for the United States.\n\nThe Space Weather Prediction Center is one of the nine National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP) and provides real-time monitoring and forecasting of solar and geophysical events, conducts research in solar-terrestrial physics (i.e. heliophysics), and develops techniques for forecasting solar and geophysical disturbances. The SWPC Forecast Center is jointly operated by NOAA and the U.S. Air Force (USAF) and is the national and world warning center for disturbances that can affect people and equipment working in the space environment. SWPC works with many national and international partners who contribute data and observations.\n\nA few of the agencies and industry that rely on SWPC services:\n\nThe Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) requires dispatchers to take into consideration HF communication degradation for each dispatched polar flight. Flights can be diverted based on SWPC solar radiation alerts if air traffic control (ATC) communication is compromised, with estimated costs as high as $100K per flight. A 23-day period in 2001 saw 25 flights diverted due to such radio blackouts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096167", "title": "Banat Republic", "text": "Banat Republic\n\nThe Banat Republic (, or \"Bánsági Köztársaság\", or \"Republica Banatului\", , ) was a short-lived state proclaimed in Timișoara in November 1918, days after the dissolution of Austria-Hungary. The Republic claimed as its own the multi-ethnic territory of the Banat, in a bid to prevent its partition among competing nationalisms. Openly endorsed by the local communities of Hungarians, Swabians and Jews, the German-speaking socialist Otto Roth served as its nominal leader. This project was openly rejected from within by communities of Romanians and Serbs, who were centered in the eastern and western halves of the region, respectively. The short-lived entity was recognized only by the neighboring Hungarian Republic, with which it sought a merger. Its military structures were inherited from the Common Army, and placed under the command of a Hungarian officer, Albert Bartha.\n\nThe Republic advocated the establishment of a Swiss cantonal model in Eastern Europe, and favored peaceful cooperation among ethnicities, as alternatives to partition. It had limited control of the country outside of Timișoara: it never held Pančevo, which became the center of Serb self-government, and failed to fully control the Romanian cities of Lugoj and Caransebeș. Before the Hungarian armistice, the Banat was threatened with invasion by the French Danube Army. Roth's government also fought against a surge of peasant rebellions, and, though militarily weak, managed to quell uprisings in Denta, Făget and Cărpiniș.\n\nIn late November, the entire region was occupied by the Kingdom of Serbia, which in December became the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, or colloquially Yugoslavia. Roth remained in place as governor, and the Republic continued to have nominal existence. The following year, in January, the French ultimately intervened in the region, to prevent a clash between Yugoslavia and the Kingdom of Romania. The rump Republic was toppled on 20 February, leading to significant violence. Roth escaped arrest and fled to Arad, where he was said to be in contact with the Hungarian Soviet Republic. He still proposed solutions for Banat's autonomy, including a plan to have the region absorbed into the French colonial empire. In 1920, the Banat was divided between Yugoslavia, Romania, and Regency Hungary. \n\nBanat separatist and federalist schemes continued to be drafted during the early interwar, being especially popular with Swabians. Before 1921, the idea of an independent Banat was taken up by the Autonomous Swabian Party and by Swabians of French descent; Romanians such as Avram Imbroane and Petru Groza were sympathetic toward minority rights and decentralization, but did not endorse autonomy. As far-left militants, Groza and Roth collaborated with each other throughout the interwar period. Swabian-centered autonomist projects were also taken up by Nazi Germany during World War II, resulting in the creation of a Nazified Banat; liberal Swabians such as Stefan Frecôt opposed this trend, and came to advocate full delimitation between French and German Swabians. After decades, separatist projects in the Banat reemerged in 2010s Romania, where they became associated with regional, rather than ethnic, identities.\n\nThe Banat is a natural geographical region located on the left bank of the Danube, within the Pannonian plain and along the westernmost slope of the eponymous mountains. It was first organized into territorial units by the Old Hungarian Kingdom: the lowlands as counties, and the mountainous areas as a Banate of Severin. Interwar journalist Cora Irineu proposes that an early instance of \"autonomous policy\" in the eastern Banat stemmed from the weakness of the Hungarian crown, which had difficulty defending itself against the Ottoman Empire during a long series of incursions. Matthias Corvinus also organized the west into a separate \"Captaincy\", whose purpose was defend the border against the Turkish advances. From 1552, most areas now regarded as the Banat were absorbed into a single Ottoman administrative unit, named Eyalet of Temeşvar. Before 1568, the east was an autonomous Banate of Lugos, administered by the Transylvanian Principality before most of it was folded back into the Eyalet.\n\nUpon emerging victorious in the Great Turkish War, the Habsburg Monarchy took over the region. In 1694, Serb settlers in the still-unnamed area obtained an imperial pledge granting them self-government, but this was never put into practice. After the 1718 Treaty of Passarowitz, the region became a Habsburg province called the Banat of Temeswar. Hungarian geographer Sándor Kókai considers it an early predecessor to the Banat, rendering plausible the Republic's claim to territorial and cultural coherence. According to the Serb medievalist Jovan Radonić, it is at this stage that the region acquired its name, as it had \"never before been one administrative unit\". \n\nThis Banat was abolished in 1778, when its components were merged into the Habsburg Kingdom of Hungary. In the 1790s, the Serbs became divided between those who pressed for a separate territory and those who, like Sava Tekelija, argued in favor of Josephine centralism. The project of reserving Banat for Serb self-government was ultimately rejected by Leopold II.\n\nThe status quo was challenged by the rise of Hungarian nationalism and liberalism. In 1834, mountainous eastern Banat hosted a Masonic Lodge which preached republicanism. These ideas were at the forefront of the Hungarian Revolution of 1848, which proclaimed independence for the entire Kingdom, maintaining its hold on the Banat. A pro-Hungarian Serb, Petar Čarnojević, was assigned Commissioner in the Banat, tasked with imposing martial law against conservative rebels. In parallel, the concept of a Romanian Banat was being advanced by Romanian radicals. One of these was Eftimie Murgu, who organized a popular assembly in June and proclaimed a \"Romanian Captaincy\" within revolutionary Hungary. This effort was mainly directed against the Habsburg (Imperial Austrian) regime; the Austrians found regional backing from the rival government of \"Serbian Vojvodina\", which aimed to incorporate the entire Banat.\n\nBetween 1849 and 1860, the Banat, together with the Bačka and Syrmia, was part of a new Habsburg–Serb province, the Voivodeship of Serbia and Banat of Temeschwar; the shared capital of all these entities was Timișoara. Seen as a \"hybrid\", this arrangement was not generally welcomed by Romanians. However, a second experiment in Banatian autonomy was carried out after 1850, when the Austrians appointed Čarnojević's Aromanian son-in-law, Andrei Mocioni, as governor over the eastern half of the Voivodeship. This change was largely advantageous for the Romanian population, which controlled the administration, but ended in 1852, when Mocioni resigned over his conflicts with central government. In November 1860, Mocioni organized a popular assembly, reissuing demands for a \"Romanian Captaincy\", but under Austrian supervision. This action was not supported, and in December the region and the Voivodeship were folded back into the Kingdom of Hungary (or Lands of the Crown of Saint Stephen). The Romanian focus shifted toward forming a separate crown land for the community, unifying the Banat with Transylvania and Bukovina.\n\nThe \"Captaincy\" project was revived in part by a coalition of Serb and Romanian deputies in the Hungarian Diet, including Svetozar Miletić, Vincențiu Babeș, and Sigismund Popoviciu. During 1866, they proposed laws to redefine Hungary on the basis of ethnic federalism and corporatism. However, the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867 cemented the Banat's annexation to the Lands of the Hungarian Crown, and kept the region under a unified government. This setback prompted Mocioni to withdraw from politics altogether. Ethnic federalism was again redrawn in the 1900s by Aurel Popovici. However, his project, the \"United States of Greater Austria\", suggested the Banat's partitioning between a Romanian Transylvania and a rump Hungary, with a special status for Swabian-settled areas.\n\nThe Banat issue was revisited during the final stage of World War I, with the collapse of Austro-Hungarian rule: the Aster Revolution toppled the Kingdom, and in mid November 1918 established a Hungarian Republic. In Timișoara, the anti-war protests that began in early October grew in extent and intensity towards the end of the month, with several statues representing Austrian authority toppled by the populace. The Banat state was actually proclaimed during one such popular assembly, on 31 October or 2 November. Lieutenant Colonel Albert Bartha, who was attempting to organize a Hungarian front against the advancing French Danube Army, claims that he created the Republic as a buffer zone; he also records 31 October as the Republic's official birth date. Also that day, the Common Army split into National Committees representing the constituent nationalities. This was done by agreement between German Austria, still represented locally by Baron von Hordt, and the Hungarian National Council, represented by \"Alispán\" György Kórossy.\n\nOther accounts credit initiative to Otto Roth, a member of the Hungarian Social Democratic Party (MSZDP). As reported by these, Roth, who had already served as Timișoara councilor, met with his party colleagues on 30 October, and afterward approached Bartha. The process also involved local Freemasons, including two members of the Losonczy Lodge—Kálmán Jakobi and István Tőkés.\n\nRoth acknowledged that he spoke on that night at the Military Casino, where he did not proclaim the republic, but rather expressed his support for the concept. Instead, he announced that Bartha was in charge of the city's military command, and asked for a People's Council to be formed. Romanian attendees opposed this move: their nominal leader, Aurel Cosma, also spoke on the occasion, and informed the other attendees that he and his peers would form national institutions of their own. Years later, Roth recalled being amazed that no Hungarian present moved to assassinate either him, for being a republican, or Cosma, for being a Romanian nationalist.\n\nThe MSZDP local chapter organized the effort to create both the People's Council and subsequent Republican government, beginning with the large rally that had previously been announced in Timișoara's Liberty Square. The participants flew socialist red flags. Eventually, an assembly of local politicians elected Roth \"President of the Republic\" and made Bartha, who was already head of the Military Council, commander of the Banat's military forces. Accounts converge on noting that the Republic was proclaimed from the balcony of Timișoara City Hall. The rally ended with renditions of Hungary's \"Himnusz\" and \"La Marseillaise\".\n\nAlso designated as Commissioner-in-Chief, Roth appointed sub-Commissioners in charge of the three traditional counties (Temes, Torontál, Krassó-Szörény). Republican officials boasted that, by 4 November, they had already created a new administrative apparatus, as well as setting up a National Guard. The core of government was a 20-member Executive Committee, which proceeded to deal with the issues of supplies and famine. On 3 November, the Republic and its confederation with Hungary earned support from another Swabian popular assembly, whose chief organizer was Kaspar Muth. The state legislature was the same as the People's Council of Timișoara, and included 70 members from the local Civic Party and other \"bourgeois parties\", 60 from the national military committees, 40 from the Workers' Council, and the entire 20-member Timișoara city council. According to the Romanian author Gheorghe Iancu, in terms of individual affiliation, the Council was dominated by the MSZDP. As reported by \"Nova Zora\" newspaper of Vršac, this parliamentary body introduced tax brackets, forcing an individual tax of 400,000 \"Kronen\" on highest-income individuals.\n\nThough anti-Habsburg, Hungary's own republican regime, headed by Mihály Károlyi, sought to preserve as much as possible from the older Kingdom's territory, and to resist the advance of competing Romanian and Serb nationalisms within its borders. Although Hungarian troops withdrew from the area, Bartha was recognized as Károlyi's commissioner, and the Banat continued to be represented in Budapest by János (Johann) Junker. While Roth's proclamation is sometimes rendered as a declaration of independence, Republican officials openly acknowledged that their ultimate plan was to create a federal and democratic Hungary, with units modeled on the Swiss cantons. A specific proposal for a Swabian \"national canton\" was advanced in December 1918 by Miksa Strobl. Roth's polity is occasionally referred to as \"Banat autonomous republic\", or as a \"limited autonomy within the Magyar state\".\n\nCroat scholar Ladislav Heka sees the Republic as resutling from an alliance between Hungarians and Swabians; he also notes that the Bunjevci, a Slavic Catholic community in neighboring Bačka, also preferred Hungarian rule to some extent. Several Romanian and Serb historians agree that Hungarian designs were the main drivers behind the establishment of a Banat Republic, which they see as a proxy for Hungarian rule: \"Mihály Károly's government desired a 'Banat autonomous republic' within a Magyar state [...], earning intense propaganda support from the Timișoara lawyer Otto Roth and from other Magyar, German and Jewish intellectuals.\" Ion D. Suciu proposes that the republic was a \"parody\" and a \"final diversion\" in Károly's attempts to maintain control over the area. According to Ljubivoje Cerović, \"the leaders of the Banat Republic aimed primarily at ensuring Hungarian [territorial] integrity\". As noted by researcher Carmen Albert, the \"so called 'Banatian republic'\" remains a mysterious detail in regional history, but could be regarded as \"essentially anti-union\", in that it opposed Greater Romania.\n\nAccording to estimates by Sándor Kókai, the Republic sought to cover \"one of Europe's most complex areas\". The region was home to 1.58 million people; of them, 592,049 (37.42%) were Romanian, 387,545 (24.50%) were Swabian or other German, 284,329 (17.97%) were Serbs, and 242,152 (15.31%) Hungarian, with 4.8% belonging to \"fourteen smaller ethnic groups\". 855,852 (54.10%) belonged to the Eastern Orthodox churches, while 591,447 (37.38%) were Catholics. Relying on similar data, historian Mircea Rusnac argues that the Republic could claim to represent some 47% of the population, namely those to whom the Serbs and Romanians afforded no say regarding the region's future. Roth himself belonged to a minority: he was of Jewish origins, but did not practice Judaism. His government was primarily backed by Hungarian and German workers, and found core support among the Swabian Catholic intellectuals.\n\nRoth's policies were contested from within the Republic's nominal territory by Cosma and the Romanian National Party (PNR), who proceeded to organize for Banat's merger into Greater Romania. This caucus held its own rally in Liberty Square, demonstrating the numerical strength of its following and performing the Romanian nationalist anthem. Its importance was acknowledged by Roth, who recalled that \"the streets trembled with the lockstep of [Cosma's] powerful guards\". The core events of Romanian resistance to the Republic closely followed the developments in Timișoara. After a meeting of the Romanians in Reșița on 31 October, a \"National Council\" and a self-defense force were created, co-opting some Romanian members of the MSZDP. This was later transformed into a \"Workers' Council\", presided upon by Petru Bârnau. Meanwhile, Reșița's mostly German and Hungarian workers celebrated the Republic at a public rally on 1 November.\n\nOn 3 November, Valeriu Braniște hosted at Lugoj a large assembly of Romanians, who validated Cosma's efforts and also voted for the creation of Romanian military units. These issues were again raised and endorsed at another assembly, held at Caransebeș on 7 November. The city hall here was topped by the Romanian tricolor. Hungarian presence disintegrated in eastern Banat, with leftover authorities complaining that Romanians had read the \"People's Government policy\" as authorizing secession in majority-Romanian localities. However, Caransebeș continued to host two parallel Councils: a Republican one, created by Zsolt Réthy, and a Romanian one, under Remus Dobo.\n\nA Serb National Council had already been set up in Timișoara during the earliest days of the Republic. Presided upon by Svetozar Davidov and Georgije Letić, this assembly largely refused cooperation with Roth's Commissioners, only recognizing them as an ad-hoc city government; it demanded that Allied Powers occupy the Banat \"as soon as possible\". On 5 November, Banat Serbs created another dissident National Council, at Pančevo. On 10 November, the two Councils, alongside other Serb bodies, sent delegates to the Popular Assembly which voted for the Banat's immediate union with the Kingdom of Serbia. However, Roth was able to create disunity between the Bunjevci and other Slavs: on 7 November, a \"Bunjevac People's Republic\" was proclaimed at Sombor as a close ally of the Banat Republic.\n\nAccording to his own recollections, Bartha began separate negotiations with the French, falsely claiming that he had 40,000 soldiers prepared to resist them. In reality, he acknowledged, there were less than 4,000. His rivals Cosma and Lucian Georgevici had set themselves the goal of creating Romanian military units in each small locality; they reported 60,000 recruits in Temes alone. However, all competing sides had limited control over rural areas: peasants and returnees from the Common Army took over control over the villages and established over 40 independent councils. Already in October, the Timișoara Citizens' Guard, comprising paramilitaries of all nationalities, fought and defeated groups of liberated prisoners, restoring legitimate control over the Central Post Office. Many Serbs who had been prisoners of war in Russia returned home with military training, social grievances, and communist beliefs. Known as \"Octobrists\", they joined up with deserters and outlaws (\"green cadres\") and began raiding in Clisura area. Coriolan Băran, who took charge of the Romanian guards in Sânnicolau Mare, made note of a conflict opposing Romanians to the Banat Bulgarians of Stár Bišnov.\n\nA social revolt was sparked on 1 November, when the sugar mill of Margina, northeast of Lugoj, was taken over by peasants from the surrounding region; another nucleus was at Ciacova, south of Timișoara. Former soldiers directed repression against the notaries public, identified as responsible for wartime injustice. Such incidents peaked at Ghilad, where one notary was tried and executed by a self-appointed court, and again at Denta, where the archive was devastated and its curator seriously injured. The mayor of Bunya (now Făget) was murdered, and the schoolteacher and priest were chased out. The rebel groups also organized looting against landowners of all nationalities—including attacks on the Mocioni family estate at Birchiș, the Bissingen-Nippenburg residence in Vojvodinci, and Géza Szalay's manor in Voiteg.\n\nIn that context, Roth's Republic resorted to applying martial law. Its National Guard attempted to repress the peasant movement, notably at Jebel, where 17 were killed in the confrontation. Government remained largely powerless, but its task was taken up by loyalist troops from Timișoara. At Margina, they reportedly relied on 33 mercenaries employed by the sugar industry, who resorted to terrorizing the population. On 4 November, loyalist units stormed into Denta and Cărpiniș, executing some tens of looters. The same day, a Hungarian Guard intervened against anti-Jewish rioters in Făget, killing as many as 16 Romanians. According to Romanian priest Traian Birăescu, the 3rd Honvéd Regiment, serving the Republic, committed wanton atrocities in Făget, Racovița, and Topolovățu Mare. He counts 160 victims of such incidents, between 3 and 17 November.\n\nDuring that same interval, the Republic's National Guard grew to incorporate the new arrivals, numbering at some 500 per district. There were open clashes between these units and their Romanian counterparts: the occupation of Făget was only relieved when Axente Iancu and Dinu Popescu established and armed a Romanian Guard which ordered Republican troops to leave town. Another enduring rebellion was that of Serb villagers in Kusić and Zlatica, who established their own \"Soviet republic\" with assistance from the \"Octobrists\".\n\nFollowing the Hungarian armistice, which allowed the Allied Powers to seize portions of Hungary, Bartha resigned in protest. On 12 November, the Royal Serbian Army entered the Banat with endorsements from both Hungary and the Allies. A force led by Colonel Čolović took control of Timișoara on 17 November, being acclaimed by all communities as a guarantee of \"freedom and democracy\". Both Cosma and Roth spoke on the occasion, saluting the intervention; Roth greeted Čolović with the slogan \"Long live internationalism!\" On 16–17 November, the National Guard of the Republic was disbanded, and, according to Birăescu, \"hundreds of Romanian peasants\" were set free from Republican jails. Roth was technically confirmed as civilian governor, and the People's Council remained in place as a regional legislature. Government instructed the Banat's citizens to remain calm when interacting with the intruders, and from 16 November \"existed only on paper\".\nBy 20 November, Serbian forces had camped along the Mureș River, from Szeged to Lipova. In their advance eastwards, they stopped at Caransebeș and Orșova. Serbian garrisons disarmed the surviving Guards of Timișoara and Reșița, while forcing the two Lugoj Councils to establish a single Guard unit. The \"Octobrist\" republic of Kusić–Zlatica, whose leaders had attempted a march on Bela Crkva, was also repressed during the interval.\n\nThe general purpose of this offensive was to secure as much of the region as possible before the Paris Peace Conference, obtaining the most favorable terms for the region's split between Serbia and Romania. Serbia regarded the Banat under its control as an acquired territory, part of a province called Banat, Bačka and Baranja. On 25 November, this view was enforced by the all-Slav Popular Assembly of Novi Sad. It hosted 72 Serb, Bunjevci, Slovak, Montenegrin, Šokci and Krashovani deputies from throughout the disputed areas. Non-Slavs were excluded on principle, though not entirely absent—with the exception of Romanians, who boycotted this rally.\n\nSome Romanians were by then driven out by the Serbian intervention. They include Băran, who began organizing Banatian guards from Transylvania, as well as Caius Brediceanu and Ioan Sârbu, who asked for the French to step in as peacekeepers. Romanian peasants were originally sympathetic to the Serbian administration, as Serbia and Romania were both in the Allied camp. However, requisitions, overhunting, abuse against property owners, and conflicts over the reemergence of Hungarian Gendarmes sparked a number of conflicts between the occupied and occupiers. Also on 12 November, the local Romanian community aligned itself with the Central Romanian National Council (CNRC) of Transylvania, which was becoming the main ethnic representation body. Iosif Renoi, a Romanian member of the MSZDP and a resident of Bocșa, was elected on the CNRC leadership board.\n\nDuring November, together with the other Council delegates and a number of sympathetic Swabians, Banat Romanians participated in negotiations with Károly's representative, Oszkár Jászi. The CNRC issued demands for the whole territory of the Banat Republic to be annexed by Romania, alongside the counties of Csanád and Békés; Jászi replied with promises of cantonal federalism within a \"new democratic country\". Talks were suspended without a resolution, prompting the CNRC to call for a Romanian national assembly at Alba Iulia, Transylvania, on 1 December. To avoid antagonizing the Serbian administration, elections for the assembly were not held in the Banat, which was advised to send only informal representatives \"from all social classes\". Some 182 of these were present for the vote, despite the Serbian Army's attempts to block access. Another 200, however, were arrested before departure, then deported to Serbia or to occupied Albania. The delegates held coordination meetings which voted against autonomy for the Banat and also called for French or English troops to take over administration.\n\nOn 1 December, remembered as the \"Great Union Day\", the Alba Iulia Assembly proclaimed the Transylvanian–Banatian merger with Romania; at the same time Serbia merged into a Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (commonly known as Yugoslavia). This polarization also divided the Swabian voters, between those who favored the Romanian option and those who acted in favor of a Yugoslavian project. The pro-Romanian lobby was enforced by Transylvanian Saxons, in particular the writer Viktor Orendi-Hommenau. The latter had established a Swabian cultural and political club, \"Kultur der Schwaben\". In parallel, Kaspar Muth continued to press for an autonomous republic, and, in January 1919, set up the Autonomous Swabian Party.\n\nA small French presence in the Banat had been established in parallel with the Serbian occupation: French and African patrols, coordinated by François Léon Jouinot-Gambetta, were stationed just outside Timișoara, and in places such as Igriș and Vojvodinci. On 3 December, after tensions between Romania and Yugoslavia had escalated and threatened to erupt into a regional war, 15,000 French troops answering to Generals Paul Prosper Henrys and Henri Berthelot occupied Timișoara. On 18 December, the Swabians' German National Council reemerged and openly asked for its own military self-defense units, or \"Volksmiliz\". These were to be directly modeled on the Swiss Armed Forces. Romanian community leaders and Orendi-Hommenau's followers celebrated the French intervention, but, by January, came to fear that France was tolerating another buildup of Yugoslavian forces. Jouinot-Gambetta, who was assigned command over the French troops in the Republican capital, came to be disliked by the Romanian community there, being widely perceived as a Hungarophile; by contrast, local Magyars experienced a surge of Francophile sentiment.\n\nBerthelot was finally persuaded by the Romanians to demand that most Yugoslav troops withdraw from the central and eastern portions of the Banat. On 25 January, Léon Gaston Jean-Baptiste Farret and the 11th Colonial Infantry Division were in charge of Krassó-Szörény. By 27 January, French soldiers had full control over the eastern Banat, establishing a buffer zone centered on Timișoara. Roth preserved power, having been reconfirmed by Jouinot-Gambetta. The city was not entirely relinquished by the Yugoslav side. In parallel to the French advance, the new Royal Yugoslav Army, under General Grujić, consolidated a presence in Timișoara.\n\nBy then, the rump Republic and the Serb Council had become foes. The Council's newspaper, \"Srpski Glasnik\", commented that Roth was a \"chameleon\" in politics, bringing up evidence that he was plotting a pro-Hungarian coup. On 20 February, the German National Council and the remaining executive institutions of the Republic were dissolved. One version of the events credits the French with having taken this decision. Another account informs that the Yugoslav contingent in Timișoara was behind the move, and mentions that fighting occurred between the Serbs and the Republican National Guard. Timișoara's commander was by then the Swabian Josef Geml, who refused to recognize Yugoslavian rule from Novi Sad, leaving the city exposed to threats of a retaliatory blockade.\n\nOn 21 February, in territories they still controlled, Yugoslav commanders began replacing the Republican bureaucracy with their co-nationals. From the Yugoslav point of view, Roth's replacement was Martin Filipon, who was both Timișoara's Mayor and the regional \"Župan\". In his sectors, Berthelot allowed Hungarian civilian administrators to resume their work for the duration of French rule, and proceeded to ban all other national councils, as well as displays of nationalist flags. The Károlyi government attempted one final time to reassert control over the region in appointing an \"Alispán\" for Krassó-Szörény. Following Romanian protests, this move was vetoed by the French.\n\nProtests and strikes followed soon after Roth's toppling from power. Timișoara's German and Hungarian workers asked the French to intervene against the consolidation of a \"Serbian empire\" and to preserve the armistice agreement. Pursued by the Yugoslavs, Roth found refuge with the French garrison in Arad. The following period restructured Swabian political camps: Muth's initial option for Hungary was widely discredited when, in March, Károlyi fell from power and a Hungarian Soviet Republic was established. Meanwhile, Reinhold Heegen, replacing Filipon as Serbian-appointed Mayor of Timișoara, began campaigning with some success for the Banat to join Yugoslavia, and promised that Swabians would own a university of their own. While Muth himself switched to the Yugoslavian plan, most of his colleagues became supporters of Greater Romania. Roth allegedly aligned himself with the Hungarian Soviets, although, by his own account, he was their ideological enemy. He also introduced another political solution, presented by him in direct talks with French officials: he proposed an \"independent Banat under French protection\", and suggested its subsequent inclusion into the French colonial empire. The French Ambassador in Yugoslavia, Louis Gabriel de Fontenay, rejected the plan altogether, and in particular its claim that Romanians also favored independence.\n\nIn the meantime, Swabian delegations presented Berthelot with a request for union with Romania; this was formally endorsed on 15 April, when all Swabian group leaders met in Timișoara. On the Romanian side, a new version of Banatian regionalism was reemerging from nationalist groups opposed to the PNR: in mid 1919, a National Union from Banat, led by Avram Imbroane and Petru Groza, rallied support for that cause. Its manifestos demanded decentralization and minority rights, but without full autonomy.\n\nIn late May 1919, units of the Romanian Land Forces moved in from Transylvania, and were garrisoned alongside the French in Lugoj. That city was allowed to fly the Romanian tricolor. As reported by Émile Henriot, Timișoara Swabians were generally in favor of this development, though a minority supported independence for the Banat and Bačka as a federal state. Their faction preferred incorporation into Hungary, but viewed emancipation as a next-best solution. Such groups also referenced the Swiss model, but did not want French tutelage; they preferred an American occupation. During the remaining months of French occupation, however, various Republican officials were again employed by the administration. In autumn 1919, Tőkés of the Losonczy Lodge became \"Alispán\" of Temes.\nThe project of making the Banat into an independent buffer state was aired in early 1919 by George D. Herron, an American socialist and pacifist. French diplomats gave some support to Herron's designs, a matter which aggravated Franco–Romanian relations. On 16 April 1920, Swabian activists submitted to the Peace Conference another failed proposal for Banatian–Bačkan independence, specifically referencing the Swiss cantonal model. The \"neutral and independent republic of Banatia\" was mostly embraced by Swabians of French (Lorrain) descent, who also proposed a separate canton for their subgroup. By then, however, the Franco-Swabian Stefan Frecôt had joined efforts with Michael Kausch and created a \"German–Swabian People's Party\" (DSVP), which competed with Muth's Autonomous Swabian Party. Muth and Imbroane both won seats in Romania's Lower Chamber during the race of May 1920. Both deputies spoke out against the planned partition of the Banat, though Muth also pressed for the Swabians to have cultural autonomy as described by the Minority Treaties.\n\nThe Banat frontier was largely settled under the Treaty of Trianon of June 1920. The area was effectively partitioned between Yugoslavia and Romania during July, though there were still border adjustments to 1924. During that interval, the Bunjevac-Šokac Party began advocating autonomy for the Bunjevci and other Catholics, including for areas of the Yugoslav Banat. Only a small portion in the region's northwest was incorporated by the reconstructed Hungarian Kingdom, a state which also hosted 145,000 refugees from other parts of the Banat. For seven days in August 1921, this Banatian extremity was annexed to the Serbian-Hungarian Baranya-Baja Republic, which was in part a sample of Bunjevci separatism.\n\nOn 10 August 1920, one week after a Romanian takeover in Timișoara, thirty-three Swabian communes voted to support the annexation. A final delegation, chaired by Frecôt and claiming to represent 68% of the whole Banat population, petitioned the Allies with a more ambitious project. It wanted the entire region merged into Romania, but this proposal was not followed through. In parallel, the DSVP and the Autonomist Party dissolved into the German Party, which had reconciled with Romanian centralism and was acting as a shared caucus for all Germans of Romania; the German National Council was renamed Community of the German Swabians, and survived as such to 1943.\n\nRoth was arrested by the Romanian authorities and released in 1920, reportedly promising to keep out of politics. He focused on his photographic studio and his contribution to the Timișoara Chamber of Labor. In the 1930s and '40s, Roth discreetly aligned himself with Groza, rekindling Banatian regionalism within the far-left Ploughmen's Front. For a while in the 1920s, full regional self-determination \"to the point of separation\" was also endorsed by the illegal Communist Party of Romania, which followed guidelines set by the Comintern. Its 1928 \"Resolution on the National Issue\" specifically referred to the Banat as a victim of Romanian \"imperialism\".\n\nMore mainstream support for regionalism was promoted from within the People's Party by Imbroane's brother Nicolae, who in 1926 established a distinct parliamentary club. Divided into counties (Caraș, Severin, Timiș-Torontal), the region was given some political representation with the establishment of a short-lived Ministerial Directorate for Romania's south-west; full regionalism was regarded as in breach of the 1923 Constitution. This status quo was challenged by Romulus Boilă of the National Peasants' Party, who proposed dividing Romania into autonomous entities—though his project was never popular with the electorate. The Banat was reestablished as a single \"land\" in 1938–1940, taking the name of \"Ținutul Timiș\". The new structure also annexed non-Banatian areas, namely Hunedoara County and the northern communes of Severin. The reform was sanctioned by a dictatorial National Renaissance Front, with Alexandru Marta assigned as Royal Commissioner; his tenure only strengthened centralization.\n\nDuring World War II, Nazi Germany involved itself in endorsing regional government for the Swabians. In Romania, it promoted Swabian identity as a Nazi construct, prompting a major split between the Swabians-proper and descendants of the Banat French; the latter were led by Frecôt. In November 1940, under a friendly National Legionary State, Germany obtained the creation of an autonomous organism, or \"German Ethnic Group\", which was entirely Nazified. This arrangement was maintained under Germany's subsequent ally, Ion Antonescu, though the Ethnic Group itself came to be secretly monitored by the Gendarmes. These sources reported back that Germany intended to carve out a \"Danube Land\" for the Swabians. The Nazi autonomist policy was being pursued more expansively in occupied Serbia, where it led to the creation of a Banat administrative unit.\n\nAt the height of Antonescu's dictatorship, Groza was placed under arrest for his involvement with the antifascist Union of Patriots; Roth himself was able to organize an effort to free Groza. He was nevertheless submitted to the racial legislation for the remainder of the war, during which time he contemplated exiling himself and all other Jewish Banatians to Madagascar. Following the King Michael Coup of August 1944, Serb partisan units experimented with self-government in the Clisura area, setting up a Council led by Triša Kojičić.\n\nAround November, Roth himself made a brief return to the Banat administration, representing the Social Democratic Party chapter in Timiș-Torontal. This group also hosted his political rival of 1918, Petru Bârnau, who was by then mayor of Reșița. During the subsequent interval, much of the Swabian population was lost, as a number left as refugees along with the retreating German army, while many of the ones left were the target post-war expulsions. In the easternmost counties, some 7,000 Swabians were deported as labor conscripts in the Soviet Union. Although many refugees and deportees were accepted in West Germany, 10,000 of those identified as French, having left the Banat by 1945, were relocated to France. In Caraș, the Social Democrats clashed with the Soviet occupation forces, demanding that they end their anti-German abuse. Groza, by then the Prime Minister of Romania, favored a degree of segregation between the Romanians and Swabians, but praised the latter for their socialist traditions, and proposed to have them merge into the urban proletariat.\n\nSoviet presence peaked with the establishment of a Romanian communist state in 1948. During its early stages, this new regime redesigned the administrative map, and by 1952 had re-amalgamated the Romanian Banat into \"Regiunea Timișoara\". From 1956, the unit was extended northwards, incorporating parts of Arad Region. The advent of Romanian national communism in 1960 was initially signaled by the renaming of territorial units with their more traditional form: the creation of \"Regiunea Banat\" was welcomed as a sign of \"re-Romanianization\" and \"partial return to the traditional forms of administrative organization\". Within eight years, the larger units were folded back into counties by the national-communist leader, Nicolae Ceaușescu. The nationalist drive later came with renewed suspicion toward autonomy movements, and toned down internationalism. In 1972, an article by C. Mîcu, which contained some praise of the 1918 Republic, was mistakenly published by the Union of Communist Youth, prompting the intervention of official censors.\n\nWriting in \"samizdat\" form during the 1980s, philosopher Ion Dezideriu Sîrbu argued that repression and \"darkness\" were prompting the provinces back into autonomist stances. As he noted, the Banat and other regions needed to be devolved by a Romanian \"\"perestroika\"\". The anti-communist Revolution of 1989, which began in Timișoara, reignited controversies about autonomy and separatism. Before his toppling and execution, Ceaușescu accused the revolutionaries of wanting to separate Transylvania and the Banat from Romania. This charge was again proffered in disputes between the post-communist National Salvation Front and its opponents. Members of the former spuriously claimed that the latter's \"Proclamation of Timișoara\" was about regional autonomy.\n\nDuring the Ceaușescu era, the Swabian exodus had been accelerated, as the regime had agreed to provide exit visas for tens of thousands of Romanian Germans in exchange for hard currency. Especially after the Revolution, Banatian autonomy or independence were again taken up as causes—in this instance, by various members of the Romanian majority in the eastern Banat. These groups, flying a white cross on green as their flag, became interested in recovering the region's Habsburg heritage, and in some cases declared themselves ethnically distinct from other Romanians. In 2013, activists from this movement endorsed both regional independence and European federalism. The green flag became popular as a sign of regional affiliation, and was prominently displayed during the anti-government rallies of 2014. This issue was highlighted by the pro-government Social Democrats, who saw it as a move toward autonomy or independence; that claim was denied by members of the Banat League.\n"}
{"id": "2096172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096172", "title": "Flying Corps", "text": "Flying Corps\n\nFlying Corps is a 1997 World War I flight simulator developed by Rowan Software and published by Empire Interactive.\n\nIt was one of the most popular flight simulators of its time due to its accurate flight models and graphics, and also the novelty factor of a First World War dog fight simulator. \"Flying Corps\" is one of the few flight simulators to have dealt with the First World War - \"Red Baron\", \"Knights of the Sky\" and the more arcade-oriented \"Wings\" have attempted to do the same, but most companies focus on modern air combat and World War II (usually the Battle of Britain).\n\nThe game is split in four campaigns: \"The Flying Circus\" (1917), \"Battle of Cambrai 1917\", \"Spring Offensive\" (1918) and \"Hat In The Ring\" (1918). Several airplanes are available, including the Sopwith Camel, the Nieuport 28 and the Fokker Dr.I.\n\nIt was reshipped later in 1997 with 3dfx support and a few extras in a package named \"Flying Corps Gold\".\n\n\"Flying Corps\" was a runner-up for \"Computer Gaming World\"s 1996 \"Simulation Game of the Year\" award, which ultimately went to \"Jane's AH-64D Longbow\". The editors wrote that \"Flying Corps\" \"sports perhaps the best flight models ever seen on a prop-based sim; only quirky views and steep performance requirements kept it from the crown.\" \"Flying Corps\" was also a runner-up for \"Computer Game Entertainment\"s 1996 \"Best Simulation Game\" prize, which ultimately went to \"Jane's AH-64D Longbow\". The editors called \"Flying Corps\" \"arguably the best World War I flight simulator in existence.\"\n\n\"Flying Corps\" was named the 14th best computer game ever by \"PC Gamer UK\" in 1997. The editors praised its \"planes so convincing you can actually taste the corned beef and dry biscuits the pilots probably had to eat\".\n"}
{"id": "2096177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096177", "title": "Organic redox reaction", "text": "Organic redox reaction\n\nOrganic reductions or organic oxidations or organic redox reactions are redox reactions that take place with organic compounds. In organic chemistry oxidations and reductions are different from ordinary redox reactions because many reactions carry the name but do not actually involve electron transfer in the electrochemical sense of the word. Instead the relevant criterion for organic oxidation is gain of oxygen and/or loss of hydrogen \n\nSimple functional groups can be arranged in order of increasing oxidation state. The oxidation numbers are only an approximation:\n\nWhen methane is oxidized to carbon dioxide its oxidation number changes from −4 to +4. Classical reductions include alkene reduction to alkanes and classical oxidations include oxidation of alcohols to aldehydes. In oxidations electrons are removed and the electron density of a molecule is reduced. In reductions electron density increases when electrons are added to the molecule. This terminology is always centered on the organic compound. For example, it is usual to refer to the reduction of a ketone by lithium aluminium hydride, but not to the oxidation of lithium aluminium hydride by a ketone. Many oxidations involve removal of hydrogen atoms from the organic molecule, and the reverse, reduction adds hydrogens to an organic molecule.\n\nMany reactions classified as reductions also appear in other classes. For instance conversion of the ketone to an alcohol by lithium aluminium hydride can be considered a reduction but the hydride is also a good nucleophile in nucleophilic substitution. Many redox reactions in organic chemistry have coupling reaction reaction mechanism involving free radical intermediates. True organic redox chemistry can be found in electrochemical organic synthesis or electrosynthesis. Examples of organic reactions that can take place in an electrochemical cell are the Kolbe electrolysis.\n\nIn disproportionation reactions the reactant is both oxidised and reduced in the same chemical reaction forming two separate compounds.\n\nAsymmetric catalytic reductions and asymmetric catalytic oxidations are important in asymmetric synthesis.\n\nMost oxidations are conducted with air or oxygen. These oxidation include routes to chemical compounds, remediation of pollutants, and combustion.\nSeveral reaction mechanisms exist for organic oxidations:\n\nSeveral reaction mechanisms exist for organic reductions:\n\nReductions that do not fit in any reduction reaction mechanism and in which just the change in oxidation state is reflected include the Wolff-Kishner reaction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096185", "title": "New Generation", "text": "New Generation\n\n\"New Generation\" is the third and final single from the album \"Dog Man Star\" by Suede, released on 30 January 1995, on Nude Records. It is the first single to feature music by new guitarist Richard Oakes. Though the title track is written by Anderson and departed guitarist Bernard Butler, Oakes contributes on \"Together\" and \"Bentswood Boys\". The single reached No. 21 in the UK.\n\nThe video for the title song was directed by Richard Heslop, and features the whole band playing in a crowded room surrounded by broken television sets and dilapidated furniture, while a group of children dance or sit around. \"New Generation\" was the only video from the \"Dog Man Star\" era where Richard Oakes 'mimes' Bernard Butler's guitar part. It is also notable for its sepia format.\n\n\"Music & Media\" wrote: “Brett Anderson, the Bowie of the new generation, excels with a glittering pop song. The voice is put nicely upfront in the production; horns are in the back under layers of guitar.”\n\nAll songs written by Brett Anderson and Bernard Butler except where noted.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096213", "title": "William Seymour, 2nd Duke of Somerset", "text": "William Seymour, 2nd Duke of Somerset\n\nWilliam Seymour, 2nd Duke of Somerset, (158824 October 1660) was an English nobleman and Royalist commander in the English Civil War.\n\nSeymour was the son of Edward Seymour, Lord Beauchamp of Hache (who predeceased his own father) by his wife Honora Rogers. He was the grandson of Edward Seymour, 1st Earl of Hertford, by his wife Lady Katherine Grey, a sister of Lady Jane Grey, \"The Nine Days Queen\", which thus gave him a distant claim to the throne through Katherine's descent from Mary Tudor, younger sister of King Henry VIII. He was the great-grandson of Edward Seymour, 1st Duke of Somerset (c. 1500-1552), the uncle of King Edward VI and Lord Protector of England.\n\nSeymour made a secret marriage at Greenwich on 22 June 1610 to Arbella Stuart (died 1615), daughter of Charles Stuart, 1st Earl of Lennox and Elizabeth Cavendish. Arbella was thirteen years his senior, and King James I disapproved of the marriage as the union of two potential Tudor pretenders to the throne, who were respectively fourth and sixth in line, could only be seen as a threat to the ruling dynasty. As a result, William was condemned to life imprisonment in the Tower of London and thus became the fourth of five generations of Seymours to spend time in that prison.\n\nIn June 1611 Seymour escaped from the Tower, planning to meet up with Arbella, who also had escaped captivity. They were to flee to the Continent, but bad weather and other circumstances prevented their meeting, and Arbella was recaptured and placed back in the Tower. William managed to reach safety abroad at Ostend, but was never reunited with Arbella who remained in the Tower until her death in 1615.\n\nSeymour was knighted as a Knight of the Bath in November 1616. In December 1620 Seymour was elected Member of Parliament for Marlborough in Wiltshire, but vacated the seat soon afterwards on his elevation to the House of Lords, having succeeded his grandfather as Earl of Hertford in 1621. In the House of Lords he became a prominent opponent to King Charles I, where he supported the Petition of Right of 1628, and co-signed the letter of the twelve Peers of 1640, along with his brother-in-law Robert Devereux, 3rd Earl of Essex.\n\nDuring the Long Parliament, Seymour eventually parted company with the more radical opponents of the King, and in 1641 was created by him Marquess of Hertford. In the Civil War, Hertford was a moderate royalist, along with such figures as Sir Edward Hyde, and throughout sought a compromise settlement, by continuing unofficial negotiations throughout the war with his brother-in-law Essex, the Parliamentary commander. He was nevertheless a trusted supporter of the King, who made him guardian of his son the future King Charles II, and he undertook several important military commands in royalist service over the course of the war, including commanding troops from South Wales. Along with his brother Lord Seymour, Hertford was sent as a commissioner for the king at the failed Treaty of Uxbridge negotiations (1645).\n\nAfter the end of the First Civil War and the King's imprisonment, Hertford was the most prominent nobleman to remain alongside the king throughout his captivity, and was with him until his execution in 1649. He was one of four lords (the others being the Duke of Richmond, and the earls of Lindsey and Southampton) who petitioned the Commons to be allowed to assume responsibility for the King's actions and to suffer death in his place. During the Inter-regnum, Hertford kept himself away from both politics and royalist conspiracies, in the belief that the monarchy would eventually be restored and that conspiracies would only delay that event.\n\nWhen the Restoration of the Monarchy came in 1660, Hertford was restored to all his former positions, and his services in the Royalist cause were further recognised by King Charles II, who in 1660 restored Hertford to his great-grandfather's Dukedom of Somerset, which had been forfeited in 1552. He thus became the 2nd Duke of Somerset.\n\nWilliam Seymour married twice:\n\nFirstly and secretly (see above), on 22 June 1610, to his cousin Lady Arbella Stuart (died 1615), who was then fourth in line to the succession of their cousin, King James I. There were no children from the marriage.\n\nSecondly, on 3 March 1617 at Drayton Bassett, he married Lady Frances Devereux (1599–1674), daughter of Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex, by his wife Frances Walsingham, daughter of Francis Walsingham. By Frances he had at least eight children:\n\n\n\nHertford died at Essex House in London and was buried on 1 November 1660 at Great Bedwyn in Wiltshire. He was succeeded by his grandson William Seymour, 3rd Duke of Somerset.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096216", "title": "History of the Daleks", "text": "History of the Daleks\n\nThe Daleks ( ) are a fictional extraterrestrial race of mutants from the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". The mutated remains of the Kaled people of the planet Skaro, they travel around in tank-like mechanical casings, and are a race bent on universal conquest and destruction. They are also, collectively, the greatest alien adversaries of the Time Lord known as the Doctor, having evolved over the course of the series from a weak race to monsters capable of destroying even the Time Lords and achieving control of the universe.\n\nThe First Doctor first encounters the Daleks in the second serial of the show, \"The Daleks\" (1963−64). In this version of Dalek history, the Dalek homeworld of Skaro is described by the Daleks in the second episode as having once been home to two humanoid races: the Daleks and the Thals. Following a short but terrible nuclear war between the races \"over five hundred years ago\", the Thals were horribly mutated and the \"Dalek forefathers\" retired into the city. According to the Thals in the third episode, the Daleks were originally teachers and philosophers, while the Doctor states in the fourth episode that the Daleks were called Dals back then, and speculates that the Daleks had just as badly been mutated at the time. They are more or less confined to their city; their motive power being electricity conducted via metal walkways. After discovering the anti-radiation drugs of the Thals kill them, the now-xenophobic Daleks decide to release radiation from their nuclear reactors into Skaro's atmosphere, leaving only the Daleks. However, the TARDIS crew convince the Thals to fight the Daleks to stop this. At the end of this serial, the Daleks are seemingly wiped out when their power source is destroyed. However, the popularity of the Daleks ensured their return.\n\nThey next appeared in \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\" (1964), which shows the Daleks having conquered and occupied the Earth in the mid-22nd century after a meteorite shower and a plague. The First Doctor explains the presence of the Daleks to his companions, Ian Chesterton and Barbara Wright, by saying that the events take place \"a million years\" before \"The Daleks\", and that what they are witnessing is the \"middle period\" of Dalek history. However, these Daleks as an invasion force are able to move without the need for metal paths, drawing power through what appear to be radio dishes on their backs. The Daleks here plan to destroy the Earth's magnetic core and pilot the planet. However, the Doctor and his companions cause a rebellion in the mine workings, and the Dalek Saucer is destroyed by the bomb intended for Earth's core.\n\nOver the course of their next few appearances, the Daleks developed time travel in \"The Chase\" (1965), where they use a time machine to pursue the TARDIS crew, before landing on the planet Mechanus and battling the robotic Mechanoids. Here, the radio dishes have vanished, replaced with slats around the midriff functioning as solar panels.\n\nIn the year 4000 (\"The Daleks' Master Plan\", 1965–66), they have an interstellar Dalek Empire. In this story, the Daleks form an alliance with beings from the 'Outer Galaxies' in a plot to attack the Solar System with help from its treacherous Guardian Mavic Chen, who supplies them with taranium for the Time Destructor. The First Doctor steals the Taranium during the final meeting on the planet Kembel, but the Daleks pursue him through time and space. They finally recover the Taranium and turn on the delegates, leading to Mavic Chen's death. However, the surviving delegates are released and go back to their own galaxies to warn them of the Daleks. The Doctor activates the Time Destructor and the Daleks are destroyed, though his companion Sara Kingdom is turned to dust.\n\nThe Daleks develop factory ships for conquest, as seen in \"The Power of the Daleks\" (1966). Daleks are revived after their ship has been in a swamp on the planet Vulcan for over 200 years. They recognise the newly regenerated Second Doctor. The Daleks join forces with a rebel group and with the colony's power source they begin producing more Daleks to exterminate the colony. However, the Doctor turns the power source against the Daleks and apparently destroys them.\n\nA second attempt to end the Dalek saga was made in \"The Evil of the Daleks\" (1967), which also introduced a Dalek Emperor. In that story, the Daleks capture the Second Doctor and Jamie McCrimmon, planning to use them to discover the human factor. They plan to use this to find the Dalek Factor and spread it throughout human history. The conflagration caused by a Dalek civil war when Daleks are infected by the Human Factor is declared by the Doctor to be \"the final end.\" This was because Terry Nation was in negotiations to sell the Dalek concept to American television. Although the sale did not succeed, the Daleks did not appear again for five years. An untransmitted line of dialogue in the original script for \"Day of the Daleks\" mentions the supposed final end, when one of the Daleks says that the humanised Daleks were wiped out by the true Daleks. However, the humanised Daleks would later appear in a comic strip (\"Children of the Revolution\") in \"Doctor Who Magazine\", issues #312–317.\n\nThe Daleks returned in the Third Doctor serial \"Day of the Daleks\" (1972), where once again they use time travel technology and rule the Earth in the 22nd century in an alternate timeline created by wars started by a Peace Conference being disrupted. The Doctor discovers the conference was disrupted by an attempt by guerillas from the future to assassinate Sir Reginald Styles, who was held responsible for disrupting the conference. The Doctor travels back to prevent this future, and, despite the Daleks travelling back to disrupt the conference, the delegates are saved, the Daleks destroyed, and the timeline negated. The Daleks were re-established as a species bent on universal conquest, as seen in \"Frontier in Space\" (1973) where the Daleks try to cause a war between Earth and Draconia with help from the Master. This leads directly into \"Planet of the Daleks\" (also 1973), where the Daleks have invaded the planet Spiridon and are attempting to find a way to become invisible. Later on, in \"Death to the Daleks\" (1974), the Daleks try to stop humans getting the cure to a plague from Exxilon. They are trapped on the planet with the Third Doctor and humans when the Exxilon City drains the power from their ships. However, the Third Doctor destroys the brain of the city while the Daleks and humans destroy the transmitter, and the Daleks are destroyed by a human sacrificing himself with a Dalek bomb. The Dalek Emperor is not in attendance; the Daleks being led by a Supreme Dalek instead, with references made to a Dalek High Council. \"Frontier\" and \"Planet\" are set in the 26th century, while \"Death\" refers to the recent \"Dalek Wars\".\n\nIn 1975, Terry Nation retconned the Daleks' origins in the serial \"Genesis of the Daleks\", where the Fourth Doctor was sent by the Time Lords to the moment of the Daleks' creation, to stop the Dalek race before it could begin or to lessen their dominance in the future.\n\nThe Kaleds (an anagram of Dalek), are a race of humanoid extraterrestrials and the forebears of the Daleks. The Kaleds, with their stylised salutes and authoritarian political structure, were thinly veiled analogues of the Nazis. In this serial, it was the Kaleds who waged war on the Thals. The Daleks originate during the Kaled-Thal War, which is portrayed as a thousand-year-long war of attrition, fought with nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, with weapons becoming progressively less sophisticated as resources became scarcer, not the short nuclear exchange previously described.\n\nThe crippled Kaled chief scientist and evil genius Davros deems the mutations from the fallout irreversible, and then experiments on living cells, treating them with chemicals and accelerating the mutations to discover the eventual mutated Kaled form and ensure its survival. The serial suggests that mutations among the general Kaled populace are not as advanced as implied by the earlier account, and that the development of the mutated creatures that become the Daleks is engineered by Davros for his own purposes. Ostensibly, he is only speeding up the process, to predict the final form of the Kaled mutation; seeing its helplessness, he devises the means for his race's continued existence. Ultimately, he uses his creations to prematurely replace the non-mutated members of his race with the Daleks.\n\nThese genetically conditioned forms are placed in Mark III \"travel machines\" whose design is based on his own life-support chair. The tank-like travel machines coupled with the mutants become the first Daleks.\n\nThe Doctor leads other Kaled scientists to try to shut down the Dalek project. To prevent this, Davros arranges for the Thals to wipe out his own people. The Daleks are then sent to exterminate the Thals, but later turn on Davros and apparently kill him.\n\nWhile a group of surviving Thals wire the Kaled research bunker with explosives, the Doctor has the opportunity to fulfill his mission and destroy the Daleks at their genesis, but when the time comes, the Doctor could not perform what he sees as an act of genocide. He believes that despite the horror, evil and destruction that the Daleks would inflict on the universe, ultimately there must be 'some greater good'.\n\nHe later returns to the incubation chamber and does destroy the Dalek embryos, but afterwards, the Doctor concludes that this action, together with the Thals' sealing them in the bunker, had only slowed their progress by a thousand years at most. \"The Discontinuity Guide\" by Paul Cornell, Martin Day and Keith Topping argues that the Doctor did succeed in changing Dalek history. However, other commentators argue that it is possible to reconcile the pre- and post-\"Genesis\" stories without the need to invoke two versions of Dalek history. \"Asylum of the Daleks\" (2012) shows that Daleks still encountered the Doctor on Spiridon, Kembel, Aridius, Vulcan, and Exxilon, implying that the pre-\"Genesis\" stories still took place.\n\nIn \"Destiny of the Daleks\" (1979), it was revealed that Davros had survived the Daleks' attack and lived on, buried in a bunker in suspended animation. During the time Davros was sleeping, the Daleks began sending recon scouts as revealed in \"Resolution\" (2019) to locate planets for the Daleks to conquer.\n\nIn time, the Daleks completely abandoned Skaro and established a vast interstellar empire while ultimately ending up in a stalemate with a hostile android race called the Movellans. This forces the Daleks to send an expedition to the ruins of Skaro to recover Davros to give them the advantage with a Movellan expedition sent to stop them. The Daleks succeed in reviving Davros, who theorises that the extreme intelligence and rationality of the battle computers are to blame and that the first side to take a seemingly reckless gamble would tip the balance in their favour. However, the Fourth Doctor intervenes and prevented either the Dalek or Movellan expeditions from returning with this insight. Davros falls into the hands of a human space empire and is put back in suspended animation for indefinite imprisonment. This impasse continues for nearly a century until the Movellans developed a highly virulent biological agent that targets Dalek DNA. This forces the Dalek to retrieve Davros in the events of \"Resurrection of the Daleks\" to have him develop a defense against the disease. But Davros uses this to take personal command of the Daleks in an act of betrayal, causing a schism among the Daleks between one faction following Davros' leadership and another rejecting their creator to instead follow the Supreme Dalek.\n\nBy the time of \"Revelation of the Daleks\" (1985), Davros is in hiding at the Tranquil Repose funeral facility on the planet Necros, experimenting with physically transforming humans into Daleks. He is also placing those Daleks loyal to him into white and gold casings to distinguish them from the usual black and grey Daleks, but his plans are undone when a worker at the facility contacts the original Daleks. These Daleks arrive on Necros, exterminate the white and gold Daleks and capture Davros, who is returned to Skaro to face trial. The main Dalek army Davros had hidden is destroyed by a bomb the assassin Orcini set off, sacrificing himself in the process.\n\nDavros made his next televised appearance in the serial \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" (1988). Apparently, events had taken place off-screen, as he appears in the guise of the Dalek Emperor, leading his gold and white Imperial Daleks with control over Skaro. Davros had at this point modified the Imperial Daleks, adding cybernetic enhancements to their organic components. A new model \"Special Weapons Dalek\" was introduced with an enormously powerful cannon and armour capable of deflecting regular Dalek weaponry. Also, for the first time, a Dalek was clearly seen on screen to hover up a flight of stairs.\n\nPitted against the Imperial Daleks are the Renegade Daleks, led by a black Supreme Dalek. The name \"renegade\" suggests that the tables had turned and Davros' side had the upper hand. Both Dalek factions become aware that the Hand of Omega, a Gallifreyan stellar engineering device, was hidden on Earth in the year 1963. Both factions send expeditions to Earth, battling each other to retrieve it, hoping to use the Hand to create a power source that would refine their crude time travel technology.\n\nUltimately, the Imperial Daleks succeed, not knowing that the Seventh Doctor had inserted a booby trap into the Hand's programming. When Davros activates it, Skaro's sun goes supernova, and both the Dalek homeworld (in the future) and the Imperial Dalek fleet are destroyed. Davros, however, apparently escapes his flagship's destruction in an escape pod. The Renegade Supreme Dalek self-destructs when the Doctor informs it that it has failed and is the last of its kind. \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" marked the last on-screen appearance of the Daleks in the context of the programme until 2005, save for charity specials like \"Doctor Who and the Curse of Fatal Death\" and the use of Dalek voices in the \"Doctor Who\" television movie.\n\nIn the 1996 \"Doctor Who\" television movie, the Master is seen being put on trial on Skaro. The Daleks are heard, but not seen, exterminating the Master—or so the Doctor initially thought—after sentence is passed for his \"evil crimes\". Before they do this, however, the Eighth Doctor narrates that the Master makes a \"last, and [he] thought somewhat curious, request\" for the Seventh Doctor, near the end of his incarnation, to take the Master's remains back to Gallifrey.\n\nA new \"Doctor Who\" series was announced for 2005 and the Daleks have appeared in every series since (as of series 11). In the first series of the revival, the Daleks serve as the main antagonists. In \"Dalek\" (2005), it was revealed that the Daleks were involved with the Time Lords in a Time War, in which both sides were believed to have been practically wiped out. The Ninth Doctor encounters a surviving Dalek who somehow fell through time to 20th century Earth. By 2012, it had passed into the hands of American billionaire Henry van Statten, who dubs it a \"Metaltron\" and keeps it in a secret underground museum called the Vault along with other alien artefacts. The Dalek is damaged, remaining silent and helpless until the Ninth Doctor arrives at the Vault. Absorbing DNA from the Doctor's companion Rose Tyler, it regenerates itself and goes on a killing spree. However, having absorbed Rose's DNA, it continues to mutate and finds itself beset with unfamiliar, human feelings. Realising it is now \"contaminated\", the mutant asks Rose to order it to destroy itself, rather than continue to live in that way. It then disintegrates itself with an energy field created by the spheres along its lower casing.\n\nThe new Time War Daleks exhibit abilities not seen before, including a swivelling midsection that allows it a 360-degree field of fire and a force field that disintegrates bullets before they strike it. In addition to the ability to fly, it is also able to regenerate itself by means of absorbing electrical power and the DNA of a time traveller. The \"plunger\" manipulator arm is also able to crush a man's skull in addition to the technology interfacing abilities shown by earlier models. The laser is shown to be conducted like electricity, when the Dalek fires in a wet metal room. The Doctor describes the Dalek as a \"genius\", able to calculate a thousand billion lock combinations in a single second and to download the entire contents of the Internet. A more sophisticated model of the Dalek mutant was also shown.\n\nThe two-part 2005 series finale, comprising \"Bad Wolf\" and \"The Parting of the Ways\" revealed that this Dalek was, in fact, not the sole survivor of its race. The Emperor Dalek's ship had also survived, falling through time much as the lone Dalek did. Hidden, it began to rebuild, infiltrating Earth society over the course of centuries and using human genetic material to create a new Dalek race. Having done this, the Dalek Emperor came to see itself as a god, and built its new society around the Daleks' worship of itself. The new Daleks, because of origin as being spawned from impure genetic material, became as mad as their creator and even more dangerous as a result, with the Doctor adding their silence over the centuries to be partly responsible for it.\nSubtly manipulating the Fourth Great and Bountiful Human Empire of the year 200,000 by means of news programmes transmitted from Satellite 5 in Earth orbit, the Daleks installed the monstrous Jagrafess as mankind's keeper. The Ninth Doctor removes the Jagrafess in \"The Long Game\", but was unaware that the Daleks were behind it. Over the next hundred years, the Daleks continued their scheme, recreating Satellite Five as the Game Station, acquiring more humans for mutation by subjecting them to twisted reality television games. The station's Controller transports the Ninth Doctor and his companions into the station, where the Doctor discovers the Dalek presence. The race, now numbering close to half a million, are poised to invade Earth with a fleet of 200 ships. The Daleks attack Earth, destroying entire continents.\n\nThe Doctor builds a Delta Wave projector that would wipe out the Daleks, but would also eliminate all life on one side of the Earth, and finds himself unable to trigger it. However, Rose absorbs energies from the spacetime vortex by staring into the heart of the TARDIS and uses those energies to pilot the TARDIS back to the Doctor and reduce the Daleks and their fleet to atoms.\n\nIn the 2006 series finale, \"Army of Ghosts\" and \"Doomsday\", it was revealed that members of the Cult of Skaro had also escaped during the Time War by going into the nothingness between dimensions – the Void – taking with them a Time Lord prison, dubbed the Genesis Ark, which contains millions of Daleks. The Daleks' Void ship finally emerges on 21st century Earth, where it is examined by the Torchwood Institute. The path of the void ship also leaves a breach in spacetime that allows the parallel Earth Cybermen to cross over into the Doctor's universe.\n\nThe Daleks reject the Cybermen's proposal for an alliance to conquer the universe and the Ark is opened, releasing millions of Daleks to wage all-out war against the Cybermen across the planet. Ultimately, both armies are sucked back into the Void due to the actions of the Tenth Doctor. However, Sec is seen activating an \"emergency temporal shift\" before being sucked in. The following series reveals that Caan, Thay and Jast were also able to escape in the same fashion.\nEnding up in New York in 1930 during the episode \"Daleks in Manhattan\" (2007), after a failed attempt to restart their species via cloning, Sec hatches a plan of evolving the species into a new race that would adapt to the changing times, noting that despite their quest for perfection, their race is close to extinction. To that end, he telepathically contacts a human, Mr Diagoras, to serve as their servant in finishing the Empire State Building and reinforcing it with Dalekanium metal. The other Cult members (Dalek Thay, Dalek Caan, and Dalek Jast) are assigned to capture humans, which would be split into two groups. Through a quick brain scan, the Daleks determine the intelligence of each captured human. The more intelligent humans become part of the Final Experiment, while the less intelligent are transformed into pig slaves, humanoid creatures with pig-like faces, to capture more humans. The Final Experiment involves Dalek Sec making the ultimate sacrifice, and despite objections from his comrades, Dalek Sec envelops Diagoras in his tentacles and encases him in a stomach-like pouch in the process absorbing Diagoras which later transforms Sec into a new species of Hybrid Dalek, a Human Dalek.\n\nIn the second part of the story, \"Evolution of the Daleks\" (2007), while having the Tenth Doctor as his captive, Sec reveals that his transformation is the first part of the Final Experiment. The next stage involves the introduction of his hybrid DNA into thousands of captured and mind-wiped humans, whose DNA would be spliced through gamma radiation from the Sun, channelled into the Empire State Building and into the transgenic laboratory where the bodies are held. Notable changes come to this plan upon the transformation of Dalek Sec who is filled with new emotions. He believes that a return to their biological roots is necessary and even makes peace with the Daleks' nemesis the Doctor, and asks for his help in relocating the new Dalek species. However, Sec fails to realise the Dalek imperative for racial purity among his comrades, who turn on him and replace his genetic sample with their own so the Dalekised humans would wipe out humanity and transform Earth into New Skaro. Sec is killed and the Daleks' plans fall into ruin when their Dalek army is corrupted with Time Lord DNA. Daleks Thay and Jast are killed, leaving the new commander, Dalek Caan, the only survivor as he terminates the Dalek-Human army by remote, killing the newly born species. The Doctor attempts to show mercy to Caan despite everything, but the Dalek initiates an emergency temporal shift to escape.\n\nIn \"The Stolen Earth\" (2008), both Davros and a red Supreme Dalek are seen as rulers of the New Dalek Empire. It is revealed that Caan forced himself into the Time War to save Davros from destruction at the Gates of Elysium. He took his creator to safety, but the ordeal from forcing himself into the time-locked moment allowed him to \"see all of time\", although it left him insane but able to predict about a forthcoming showdown with the Tenth Doctor. While Davros provides scientific and strategic guidance, he is still essentially subservient to the Supreme Dalek. Davros used cells from his own body to create a new race of Daleks which begin stealing planets from across time and space, creating an artificial solar system. They are arranged in such a way that they uniquely channel energy that can be harnessed. These planets are placed in the rift in the Medusa Cascade, which is set a second out of sync from time, making it the perfect hiding place. Follow-up episode \"Journey's End\" (2008) shows Davros gloating that his plan is to destroy reality itself. \"The Crucible\" is revealed to be a gigantic space station that houses the entire empire and is used for experimentations with Davros' invention, the reality bomb. The bomb is a device that uses the energy of the 27 planets, and is powerful enough to cancel out even the slightest atoms outside of the Medusa Cascade. The Supreme Dalek plans to use this device to destroy reality itself, using Davros' genius and Caan's prophetical powers for guidance. Ultimately, the Daleks hope to make themselves the sole living race in the universe. The interference of the Doctor and his companions stops Davros' plans, who learns that Caan engineered it so the Daleks would be destroyed forever. With the Crucible exploding from all the Daleks self-destructing and the Supreme Dalek destroyed, the fates of both Davros and Caan are left ambiguous. In \"The Waters of Mars\" (2009), Adelaide Brooke recalls how a Dalek spared her life during the 2009 invasion. The Tenth Doctor concludes that the Dalek knew she was a fixed point in time, and thus could not kill her without threatening the laws of time. Subsequently, in 2009–2010 two-part special \"The End of Time\", the Time Lords nearly escape the Time Lock, which would also release the horrors of the Time War upon the universe once again, including the full Dalek Empire, but this eventuality is averted by the Tenth Doctor.\n\nIn \"The Beast Below\" (2010), a Dalek shadow can be seen during Prime Minister Winston Churchill's telephone conversation with the Eleventh Doctor. In \"Victory of the Daleks\" (2010), it is revealed that a Dalek ship survived its previous encounter with the Doctor, and fell back through time to 1941. The ship appears to be badly damaged, with only three surviving Daleks on board, \"at the end of [their] rope\". The surviving Daleks discovered that a Progenitor, a small capsule containing pure Dalek DNA, had also fallen back through time. The Daleks retrieved it, planning to create a new race of Daleks, but were unable to activate the capsule, as it couldn't recognise these Daleks and, according to the Eleventh Doctor, saw them as \"impure\". To solve this problem, they set a trap for the Doctor. This trap consists of building an android who believes himself to be human working undercover for the war cause. He claims to have invented the Daleks, calling them \"Ironsides\". With Dalek blueprints and multiple Daleks painted in British Army Khaki, Winston Churchill uses them as war weapons, although they are mostly seen to be carrying around files and asking staff, \"Would you care for some tea?\" The Eleventh Doctor is surprised as these khaki Daleks appear to have forgotten their own purpose. This is all part of their plan, however: he proclaims, \"I am the Doctor, and you are the Daleks!\" which the Daleks back on the ship use as a testimony to activate the progenitor. The five New Paradigm Daleks that appear then exterminate their predecessors with no resistance, as they were deemed inferior. Each Dalek is a different colour and each represents a specific place in Dalek Hierarchy — Drone, Scientist, Strategist, Eternal and Supreme. The Daleks activate a time corridor, and escape into the future, delaying the Doctor by threatening to destroy Earth. Amy Pond doesn't recognise the Daleks when she first meets them, despite the Daleks' invasion of Earth and the planets appearing in Earth's sky, which the Doctor says is not possible. In \"Flesh and Stone\" (2010), the Eleventh Doctor theorises that the cracks in the universe caused the events to be unwritten.\n\nThe White Supreme Dalek, Yellow Eternal Dalek and Red Drone Dalek reappear in \"The Pandorica Opens\" (2010) as part of the Alliance. They are present at the opening of the Pandorica and the Supreme Dalek reveals the origin behind the Pandorica, the Alliance and Stonehenge before the Eleventh Doctor is imprisoned in the Pandorica prison. In follow-up episode \"The Big Bang\" (2010), after all of reality becomes cracked, the Daleks turn to stone due to their history being erased. A Stone Dalek is later seen at a museum with the Pandorica, and is awoken when it gets hit by the regenerative field of the Pandorica. It pursues and shoots the Doctor, but due to its power being weak, it was not a fatal shot. However, River Song, enraged and believing the Doctor to be dead, aims her gun at the Stone Dalek, knowing that its defences were weak. She later claims that the Dalek died, but it is not shown onscreen whether it did. By the end of the episode, the Doctor reverses the explosion of the TARDIS and the collapse of reality. A Dalek briefly appears in \"The Wedding of River Song\" (2010), having been heavily damaged by the Eleventh Doctor, who then rips its dome off and scans its data core for information about the Silence. This Dalek is the same design as the New Paradigm Daleks.\n\nIn \"Asylum of the Daleks\" (2012), the Eleventh Doctor, Amy Pond and Rory Williams are captured and taken to the Dalek Parliament, where they are ordered to 'save the Daleks' by the Dalek Prime Minister and enter the Asylum of the Daleks, which is a planetary prison surrounded by an impenetrable force-field containing battle-scarred and insane Daleks. They are tasked with an impossible and suicidal mission: to infiltrate the planet and disable the force-field so that the Daleks can destroy the Asylum, stopping the prisoners from escaping. Whilst seeking a way to disable the force-field, the trio meet Oswin Oswald, who has a suspiciously vast amount of access to the Asylum and is able to 'hack' Dalek technology to help guide the trio's way through the Asylum. When the Doctor enters a room called 'Intensive Care', he is faced with all of the battle-scarred Daleks who had survived the Doctor's interference throughout many battles. The Doctor's presence wakes them up with the intention of exterminating him, but Oswin hacks into the path-web (a psychic layer which all Daleks use to communicate with each other) and performs a 'master delete' on all information connected to the Doctor. This causes all Daleks to forget the Doctor, not recognising him while he returns to the Dalek ship to boast about his escape from the Asylum.\n\n\"The Day of the Doctor\" (2013), set during the final day of the Time War, revealed that instead of Gallifrey and the Time Lords burning when the Dalek fleet was wiped out, 13 incarnations of the Doctor actually froze Gallifrey in a \"parallel pocket universe\"; its sudden disappearance causing the Daleks to destroy themselves in the crossfire as they concentrated fire on the planet, though the time streams being out of sync meant the Doctor did not retain his memory until his eleventh incarnation; earlier on in the episode, both the Tenth and the Eleventh Doctors mistakenly believe that the War Doctor killed all of the Time Lords on the last day of the Time War.\n\nDuring the centuries-long siege of Trenzalore during \"The Time of the Doctor\" (2013), upon learning of the Time Lords' survival with the intent to resume the Time War, the Daleks regain their memories of the Doctor after probing the mind of Mother Superior Tasha Lem of the Church of the Papal Mainframe. The Daleks end up being the last of the Doctor's enemies to besiege Trenzalore as everyone else had either retreated or been destroyed. The Daleks nearly finish the Eleventh Doctor, now a frail old man with no regenerations left, once and for all on Trenzalore as history dictated. However, due to the pleas of Clara Oswald, the Time Lords intervene, granting the Doctor a new regeneration cycle. The Doctor promptly starts regenerating and uses his excess regeneration energy to obliterate the Dalek forces on Trenzalore.\n\nIn \"Into the Dalek\" (2014), the Doctor, regenerated into his twelfth incarnation, encounters a rebel group engaging the Dalek force with a damaged one in their custody. Hearing the Dalek spout a desire to destroy its kind, the Doctor minimises himself to enter the Dalek the Doctor refers to as \"Rusty\" with Clara and a team of soldiers. After it is revealed the malfunction was due to an internal radiation leak, Rusty relapses once repaired and summons a Dalek platoon to destroy the rebel station. Still inside Rusty, convinced by Clara there is still a chance while having her restore memory of the Dalek's newfound morality, the Doctor manages to connect with Rusty's consciousness to cement its ideals. However, Rusty's change of heart is instead fuelled by seeing the Doctor's anger and complete hatred towards the Dalek race, destroying the platoon before returning to the Dalek ship to act on its new mission incognito.\n\nThe Daleks return on a rebuilt Skaro in \"The Magician's Apprentice\" (2015), where the Twelfth Doctor, the Master, who now goes by \"Missy\", and Clara have been taken. The Daleks take Missy and Clara prisoner in the city, and appear to exterminate Missy and Clara after toying with them. In the following episode, \"The Witch's Familiar\" (2015), it is revealed that Missy and Clara survived the Daleks' blasts through the modified vortex manipulators they were wearing using energy from the gunstick blasts at the last moment before impact. In the episode, Davros tricks the Doctor into using up his regeneration energy to heal Davros and the Dalek race as part of a plan to fulfil a prophecy about the creation of a Dalek-Time Lord hybrid. However, Missy releases the Doctor from capture, and the Doctor reveals that he willingly bluffed Davros into letting the Doctor heal the Daleks, as the regeneration energy also awakens the liquefied and rotting Dalek mutants from the city sewers. The sewer Daleks revolt against the Daleks in the city above by entering the city through the city pipes and bury the city. Surrounded by Daleks in the collapsing city, Missy tells the Daleks that she has a \"very clever idea\".\n\nAfter a brief cameo in \"The Pilot\" (2017), a special type of Dalek known as a Recon Scout Dalek appears in 2019's \"Resolution\", to face off against the Thirteenth Doctor and companions Graham, Yaz and Ryan; the latter accompanied by his estranged dad. When its' casing was destroyed in an ancient battle and the mutant is unearthed in an archaeological dig centuries later, the Doctor arrives to investigate, but not before the mutant attaches itself to one of the archaeologists. Using said archaeologist as a puppet, the Dalek mutant gathers together enough scrap materials to construct a temporary casing, which it uses to flee to HCHQ in a plan to summon the Dalek fleet and conquer Earth. The Doctor stops this plan and destroys the Dalek's temporary casing, but the mutant attaches itself to Ryan's dad and blackmails the Doctor to take it to Skaro. The Doctor complies, but actually takes the mutant to a supernova and sucks it out into space, detaching it from Ryan's dad in the process and destroying it.\n\nThe Daleks have appeared in many \"Doctor Who\" spin-offs, sometimes opposing the Doctor and sometimes on their own. All these spin-offs are of uncertain canonicity, and not all of them can be easily reconciled with the television series or with each other. Where they fit in the Dalek timeline is also uncertain.\n\nThe first appearance of the Daleks beyond the television series was in \"The Dalek Book\" (1964), an illustrated volume written by Terry Nation and David Whitaker. It tells the story of a Dalek invasion of Earth's solar system. Here it is claimed Skaro has moved into Earth's Solar System. Later stories showed Sara Kingdom, presumably meaning they take place in the latter 40th Century. Here the Daleks make attempts to invade the Solar System and the Space Security Service is founded to defeat them. In 1965, the comic book \"TV Century 21\" began publishing \"The Daleks\", which was written by Whitaker and included an account of the Daleks' origins. (The comic strip was, years later, collected together in an edition titled \"The Dalek Chronicles\").\n\nThe \"TV 21\" strips portray the opposing sides in Skaro's war as the Thals and the Daleks, shown as diminutive blue men with large heads somewhat similar in appearance to Dan Dare's Mekon. The Thals are a peaceful race who live on the continent of Davius. Across the Ocean of Ooze, the Daleks inhabit Dalazar. According to the comic, these humanoid Daleks build neutron bombs which are accidentally detonated by a meteorite storm. (The idea of the war having an accidental, rather than deliberate origin, goes back to an earlier draft of the first Dalek television story.) The Daleks' chief scientist, Yarvelling, had built Dalek casings as war machines prior to the nuclear holocaust. After the neutron bombs explode, Yarvelling and Zolfian, the warlord of the humanoid Daleks, explore their continent and contract radiation sickness. They discover that a mutated Dalek had survived in the war machine casing. This Dalek persuades Yarvelling and Zolfian to build more Dalek casings for their mutated descendants. Before the last two humanoid Daleks die, it declares itself the Dalek Emperor, and has a new casing built to reflect its new rank, slightly shorter than the other Daleks, with a disproportionately large spheroid head section and in gold rather than grey.\n\nLater stories in the Dalek comic tell of the expansion of the Daleks' empire, including a lengthy war against the Mechanoids which is averted by a robot sent from another planet. In the last published comic in this series, the Daleks learn the location of Earth, which they propose to invade. Although much of the material in these strips directly contradicted what was shown on television later, some concepts like the Daleks using humanoid duplicates and the design of the Dalek Emperor did show up later on in the programme.\n\nThe \"Doctor Who Magazine\" comic strips such as \"Nemesis of the Daleks\" (DWM #152-#155) pit the 26th century Daleks against the formidable Dalek Killer Abslom Daak and several more times against the Doctor. \"Emperor of the Daleks!\" (DWM #197-#202) reveals the Sixth Doctor deliberately rescues Davros from his trial (at the end of \"Revelation of the Daleks\") and that the Seventh Doctor (with help from Bernice Summerfield and Daak) helps ensure Davros obtains control of the thousands-strong Dalek army frozen on Spiridon and began the Dalek civil war that would lead to the events of \"Remembrance of the Daleks\".\n\nThe Eighth Doctor faces the Daleks twice in the pages of \"Doctor Who Magazine\": once in \"Fire and Brimstone\" (DWM #251–255) to stop them from taking control of all realities and a second time in \"Children of the Revolution\" (DWM #312–317) when he encounters the humanised Daleks created in \"The Evil of the Daleks\", who were in hiding on the planet Kryol.\n\nThe Virgin New Adventures add background detail to both the Dalek Wars of the 26th century and the Daleks' 22nd century invasion of Earth, including detailing the events of the Dalek conquest of Mars (and a battle against the Ice Warriors) at that time in \"GodEngine\" (1996) by Craig Hinton.\n\nThe 1997 Eighth Doctor Adventures novel \"War of the Daleks\" by John Peel is set after the apparent destruction of Skaro in \"Remembrance of the Daleks\", and reveals that the planet had not, in fact, been destroyed. A convoluted explanation includes the revelation that the planet Antalin had been terraformed to resemble Skaro and destroyed in its place. It is also revealed that the Dalek-Movellan war (and indeed most of Dalek history before the destruction of \"Skaro\") was actually faked for Davros' benefit. Having discovered records of Skaro's destruction during their invasion of Earth, and after their attempts to change history failed, the Daleks created an elaborate deception to save Skaro by moving Davros to Antalin and faking the situation to maintain history. Davros is put on trial by the Daleks under the Dalek Prime and disintegrated at story's end, and the Eighth Doctor sends their factory ship back in time to be discovered by the Second Doctor in \"The Power of the Daleks\".\n\nThe Eighth Doctor faces the Daleks again in \"Legacy of the Daleks\" (1998), when he returns to Earth in the aftermath of the Dalek Invasion, although in this case the Daleks are basic versions who have been reactivated by the Master (whom the Doctor unintentionally confronts out of sequence), the novel concluding with the Daleks being destroyed and the Master being left in the condition that he was seen in during \"The Deadly Assassin\".\n\nThe 2004 Telos novella \"The Dalek Factor\" by Simon Clark features a Dalek task-force using an amnesiac Doctor to trap and genetically re-engineer Thals with the \"Dalek Factor\" (the thoughts and instincts of a Dalek) so they can spread it throughout the Thal gene pool. Once this is accomplished, the Daleks plan to trigger the factor, wiping out the Thals by turning them into Daleks. The 2006 New Series Adventures novella \"I am a Dalek\" by Gareth Roberts has the Daleks attempting the same stratagem on humans during the Time War, but on a smaller scale that infects only one 20th century human.\n\nIn the 2009 novel \"Prisoner of the Daleks\", the Tenth Doctor crosses into the pre-Time War Dalek timeline by accident, and lands in the 26th century; references are made to a recent conflict with the Draconians from \"Frontier in Space\" and the Osterhagen Principle, named after a UNIT weapon from \"Journey's End\", is said to have been invented 500 years before. In this period of history, the pre-Time War Dalek Empire is fighting a huge galactic war against Earth, with Earth Command forced to hire bounty hunters to help them. However, despite the Daleks having superior technology, the war has reached stalemate. To win the war, the Daleks plan to open the Arkheon Threshold, a schism in time and space, and launch a huge Dalek force into the time vortex to conquer the whole of time and space. They capture a fleet of ships escaping from a colony planet and force them to work on breaking through to the Threshold with manual labour. Their plan is however defeated when the Doctor lures them to an abandoned refuelling planet where the TARDIS is located—the Daleks needing the TARDIS to make the experiment work—and then detonates the remaining fuel stores, destroying a Dalek science squad and a small Dalek fleet. The novel ends with the Earth forces overwhelming the Dalek forces at the Arkheon Threshold, and Earth going on the offensive.\n\nIn 2013, another novel, \"The Dalek Generation\", was released. It shows that in the future, the Daleks, after a galactic recession, have helped develop planets for humanity which are called the Sunlight Worlds. These Daleks work with the Dalek Time Controller, a character from the Big Finish audios, to manipulate the Eleventh Doctor into helping them activate the Cradle of the Gods, a device with which they hope to turn the Sunlight Planets into copies of Skaro. However, the Doctor is able to foil their plan with the help of the Dalek Human Jenibeth, although the Dalek Time Controller escapes.\n\n\"Engines of War\" (2014) features the War Doctor crash landing on a Dalek-occupied planet, Moldox, where he meets a Dalek hunter called Cinder. This story introduces a group of five Daleks called the Eternity Circle created by the Dalek Emperor. The Daleks plan to create a Temporal Cannon powered by the energy harnessed from the Tantalus Eye to wipe Gallifrey from history. They are defeated when the Doctor tells Borusa to destroy all Dalek traces around the Eye.\n\nThe Daleks also appear without Davros in many of the \"Doctor Who\" audio plays by Big Finish Productions. The first four \"Doctor Who\" audio plays starring the Daleks were released under the \"Dalek Empire\" banner, and portrays a territorially expansive Dalek army under the command of the Emperor (who does not appear to be Davros). In \"The Genocide Machine\" (2000), the Daleks invade the Kar-Charrat Library to learn information they eventually use in \"The Apocalypse Element\". In that play, the Daleks invade the Time Lords' home planet, Gallifrey, but are eventually defeated. They also use the eponymous \"apocalypse element\" to burn an entire galaxy, Seriphia, and plan to conquer the now-empty galaxy and use it as a new base for their empire. The third play, \"The Mutant Phase\" (2000), has few links with the others in the series and occurs around the time of \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\", where the Fifth Doctor becomes caught up in the Daleks' attempts to investigate a strange 'virus' that is mutating the Daleks into indestructible giant insects; after a confrontation with the Dalek Emperor of the far future, the events of this story are erased at its conclusion when the Emperor accepts the Doctor's warnings. The final story, \"The Time of the Daleks\" (2002), shows that the Daleks have gained much greater knowledge of time travel from their invasion of Gallifrey, attempting a complex plan to subvert human history by manipulating the timeline of William Shakespeare until the Eighth Doctor traps their fleet in a time loop of its own destruction.\n\nA spin-off series of audios, titled \"Dalek Empire\" (2001–08), is set after \"The Time of the Daleks\" and features a successful Dalek invasion of the Milky Way during an Earth Empire. The Daleks make great headway and manage to conquer their way up to Earth's solar system in a prolonged war against both humans and the Daleks of an alternate reality. They are finally defeated by a psychic attack that causes every piece of Dalek machinery to self-destruct in an ever-expanding wave which obliterates their forces and kills the Emperor. However, this also cripples civilisation of the Milky Way and sets galactic development back by a substantial amount. Centuries later, when only a handful remember the Daleks, the Dalek Empire attacks again under the command of a Dalek Supreme, which infects the borders of the galaxy with a virus that genetically re-engineers humans into Daleks. By the end of the third \"Dalek Empire\" series, the Daleks have a new giant army and are poised to go to war with the Galactic Federation, with the outcome uncertain.\n\nThe 2003 Big Finish audio \"Jubilee\" depicts an alternate Earth in which the Sixth Doctor had helped defeat a Dalek invasion in 1903. Most of the story is set a hundred years later, in a world in which Dalek technology and ideals have been used to create a fascist and sexist \"English Empire\". This timeline is largely erased at the story's end, but the Sixth Doctor warns that this nightmarish history will \"live on, in the shadows\". \"Jubilee\" was written by Robert Shearman, who used elements of it—such as the Doctor's companion bonding with a lone Dalek—for his 2005 television episode, \"Dalek\".\n\nThe 2004 Bernice Summerfield audio \"Death and the Daleks\" features the Daleks of the 26th century secretly controlling the Fifth Axis, a military force based on ideals of human superiority and the extermination of aliens, using them as proxies to conquer various worlds the Daleks did not wish to be seen conquering, including the Braxiatel Collection. Through the efforts of Benny Summerfield and her allies, the Axis is defeated and the Dalek control exposed.\n\nIn \"The Juggernauts\" (2005), set between \"Revelation of the Daleks\" and \"Remembrance of the Daleks\", the Daleks manipulate the Sixth Doctor for the purpose of recapturing Davros (who had escaped his Dalek captors after the end of \"Revelation\"). Davros adds human nervous tissue to robotic Mechonoids to create the Juggernauts of the play's title; he hopes to use these as an army to destroy the Daleks. At the end of the story, the self-destruct mechanism of Davros' life-support chair explodes after it is damaged by a conflict between the Daleks and the Juggernauts, destroying an entire human colony. It is not clear how Davros survives to become the Dalek Emperor, as seen in \"Remembrance\".\n\nBy the time of the 2005 Eighth Doctor audio play \"Terror Firma\" (set after \"Remembrance\"), Davros is commanding a Dalek army which has successfully conquered the Earth. His mental instability has grown to the point where \"Davros\" and \"the Emperor\" exist within him as different personalities. His Daleks recognise this instability and rebel against Davros. By the story's end, the Emperor personality is dominant, and the Daleks agree to follow him and leave Earth.\n\nThe 2006 Seventh Doctor audio \"Return of the Daleks\", set during the first \"Dalek Empire\" spin-off series, features the Daleks and Kalendorf trying to awaken their army buried on Spiridon, only for the Doctor to thwart their plans by infecting them with light-wave sickness when they attempt to recreate their old experiments to master the secret of invisibility.\n\nIn \"Blood of the Daleks\", the Eighth Doctor and new companion Lucie Miller arrive on the colony world of Red Rocket Rising, recently decimated in a meteor strike, just as a Dalek fleet arrives offering to 'help' the survivors. The Doctor soon realizes that the Daleks were actually drawn to Red Rocket Rising to destroy the experiments of Professor Martez, who created his own race of Daleks by mutating human subjects. The two factions of Daleks soon turn on each other out of their own belief in their superiority, the Doctor convincing Martez to destroy the production line for Martez's Daleks while the original Daleks are too damaged by recent battles to prevent their ship being destroyed by a bomb.\n\n\"Enemy of the Daleks\" sees the Seventh Doctor facing an experiment on the planet Bliss that attempted to create a race able to oppose the Daleks, known as the Kisaabya. Genetically engineered to eat metal as adults and flesh as larvae, their creator intended for the Kisaabya to eat the casings of the Daleks, lay their eggs in the Dalek mutants, and then have their larvae eat the mutant creatures. Feeling that the Kisaabya are too dangerous and uncontrollable, the Doctor works with the damaged Black Dalek to position itself beside the reactors of the base where the experiments took place so that the Black Dalek's self-destruct will destroy the base and the entire Kisaabya species.\n\nThe 2012 audio \"Energy of the Daleks\" sees the Fourth Doctor and Leela deal with a Dalek attack on Earth in the mid-twenty-first century, where the Daleks—originating from the future—intend to exploit a device intended to provide Earth with free energy to disrupt Earth's gravity field and seriously damage the planet. The Doctor is able to sabotage their equipment and destroy the Dalek ship.\n\nThe Fourth Doctor faces the Daleks again in the two-part audio \"The Dalek Contract / The Final Phase\", when they trick ruthless CEO Cuthbert into hiring them as a security force while he attempts to complete his mysterious experiment, which will turn a rift in the universe into a time portal. The Daleks intend to use this rift for their own benefit, but the Doctor is able to configure the rift to generate a massive pulse of temporal energy that destroys all Dalek DNA in its vicinity.\n\nThe Eighth Doctor and Lucie face the Daleks again when the Daleks attempt a second invasion of Earth (\"Lucie Miller\"/\"To the Death\") aided by the Doctor's old friend-turned-foe the Monk, seeking revenge for the Doctor's past defeats of him. The Monk eventually realizes his mistake when the Daleks destroy the collection of human cultural artefacts he had been assembling and kill his companion Tamsin Drew (who had initially travelled with the Doctor before the Monk manipulated her into 'defecting' to his side), but the Daleks are still responsible for the deaths of Lucie and the Doctor's great-grandson, Alex Campbell, when they give their lives to destroy the Dalek mothership, the Monk only just saving the Doctor and Susan from the same fate.\n\nThe Lost Stories audio \"The Elite\" features a single damaged Dalek that has manipulated a civilization into a state of civil war after it became trapped on a primitive planet, the Dalek posing as an emissary of the gods. The Fifth Doctor prepares to take the Dalek back to the fleet to give the civilization a chance to rebuild, but the Dalek is killed by one of its followers as the priest cannot accept the truth.\n\nThe audio series \"Dark Eyes\" and its sequels are essentially the first stages of the Time War in the modern series, depicting the Daleks' early attempts to destroy the Time Lords through various complex schemes involving alliances with factions such as the renegade Time Lord Kotris and the powerful Eminence, opposed by the Eighth Doctor and his new companions Molly O'Sullivan and Liv Chenka.\n\nIn \"The Curse of Davros\", the Daleks, collaborating with Davros, attempt to alter the outcome of the Battle of Waterloo, using a device that allows Davros to transfer Dalek minds into human bodies. The Sixth Doctor uses this to swap bodies with Davros to try and sabotage the Dalek plan from within, but is only jus able to regain his body with the aid of his new companion Flip Jackson.\n\nIn \"Masters of Earth\", the Sixth Doctor arrives on Earth during the Dalek invasion, and is forced to help a woman who will become a famous figure in the anti-Dalek resistance in the future escape to the Orkney islands while keeping his true identity secret. In the end, the Doctor is forced to end a plan to augment humanity with elite Roboman technology as he fears that the transformation would make mankind the new Daleks.\n\nIn \"Daleks Among Us\", a faction of Daleks attempt to acquire the Persuasion Machine, a machine that allows the user to control others, with this faction being led by Falkus, a clone of Davros's original human body that has gained sentience. The Daleks and Falkus are destroyed when the Doctor's companion Elizabeth Klein is able to take control of the machine.\n\nIn \"We Are the Daleks\", the Seventh Doctor discovers that the Daleks are attempting to infiltrate human society in 1987 by presenting themselves as being interested in a partnership with Earth for economic purposes. They are able to brainwash all of London into adhering to a Dalek philosophy, but the Doctor turns the tables on them when he sends the transmitter of the brainwashing signal back to Skaro, causing the Daleks to turn of themselves as their existing Dalek feelings are amplified.\n\nThe audio series \"The War Doctor\" and \"Eighth Doctor- Time War\" depict the events of the Time War between the Time Lords and the Daleks, with the Eighth Doctor acting as a conscientious objector focused on helping those caught in the crossfire of the war, while the War Doctor takes the battle to his enemies using increasingly questionable and dangerous methods as he rejects his usual name and methods.\n\nIn the audio series \"- The Conquest of Far\" (set just after \"Planet of the Daleks\"), the Third Doctor (voiced by Tim Treloar) and Jo arrive on the distant Earth colony of Far, where the Doctor once aided in the construction of a hypergate providing rapid access to distant systems, only to discover that the Daleks have conquered the planet and intend to use the gate for themselves. With the aid of local resistance and a nearby space fleet, the Doctor is able to avert the Daleks' plan to use an augmented Robomen program to take control of humanity, modifying the equipment to shut down the Daleks' minds rather than control the humans'.\n\nThe Progenitor Daleks who first appeared in \"Victory of the Daleks\" return as the main antagonists of the first game of \"\", \"City of the Daleks\" (2010). Following their escape, the Daleks discover the lost Time Lord artefact, the Eye of Time, allowing them to alter time as they saw fit with few consequences. The Daleks return to Skaro, rebuild their capital city of Kaalann, appoint a new blue Dalek Emperor and begin rebuilding their Empire. One of the Daleks' first acts with their newfound power over time is to invade London in 1963. In this new timeline, they succeed in killing every member of the human race. However, the Eleventh Doctor and Amy Pond successfully undo these events, leaving Earth unconquered and Kaalann still abandoned.\n\nA Scientist Dalek is the main antagonist of the game Mazes of Time. It kidnaps an alien family to collect Time Orbs. It recruits Drones and Strategist Daleks. It also recruits big armies of Cybermen and Silurians as a distraction for the Eleventh Doctor and Amy Pond.\n\nThe Paradigm Daleks return as one of the antagonists of the game (2012). A new Dalek Emperor is leading the invasion of Earth in 2106 using the piece of the Eternity Clock. The Emperor is purple and able to form itself as a sphere. The Daleks are using the piece of the Eternity Clock to put a Time-Lock around a large part of London in 2106. Once they perfected their Time-Lock technology, they planned to use it to put temporal bubbles around other planets, making them unstoppable. The Doctor and River Song infiltrate the Dalek Flagship and managed to take back the piece, undoing the Dalek invasion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096223", "title": "Era Bell Thompson", "text": "Era Bell Thompson\n\nEra Bell Thompson (August 10, 1905 – December 30, 1986) was a graduate of the University of North Dakota (UND) and an editor of \"Ebony\" magazine. She was also a recipient of the governor of North Dakota's Roughrider Award. A multicultural center at UND is named after her.\n\nThompson was born on August 10, 1905 in Des Moines, Iowa, the only daughter of Steward “Tony” Thompson and Mary Logan Thompson, the children of formerly enslaved people.\n\nIn 1914, her parents moved Thompson and her three brothers to Driscoll, North Dakota, where they were the only black family in the small community, and she and her brothers were often the only African-Americans in the schools they attended. Thompson would find herself in similar situations for much of her youth and into early adulthood. She wrote years later of her ignorance of blacks before she moved to Chicago following her graduation from college.\n\nThompson graduated from Bismarck High, where she had excelled in sports and pursued journalism, often to cope with the isolation she often felt. She enrolled at the University of North Dakota in 1925, and she excelled in track and field, breaking several school records, tying two national records, and earning the distinction of being one of the state’s greatest athletes. However, during her second year of college, an extended bout with pleurisy left her too debilitated to run track and forced her to leave school.\n\nShe moved to Chicago and worked in a variety of short-lived clerical jobs before landing one at a magazine. For three months and for a pay of ten dollars a week, she “learned how to run a magazine on hope, patience, and a very worn shoe string; to proofread and write advertising copy—and keep warm by burning magazines in an old fireplace,” Thompson writes in her autobiography. After an illness to her father she was forced to return to North Dakota, where she worked for the Rev. Robert O'Brian family doing chores in exchange for financial support for her and her family.\n\nShe returned to college with the support of the Rev. Robert O'Brian family and received a B.A. degree from Morningside College in Sioux City, Iowa. Returning to Chicago, she did postgraduate work at Northwestern University’s Medill School of Journalism. Initially unable to find a job in journalism, Thompson worked a number of small clerical jobs while continuing to write small personal writing projects and, thanks in part to a fellowship from Newberry Library, an autobiography. Published in 1946, it is entitled \"American Daughter\".\n\nIn 1947, Thompson came to the attention of \"Ebony\". She joined the magazine as associate editor. Two years after becoming co-managing editor, she began her foreign reporting in 1953. She was instrumental in shaping \"Ebony\" magazine’s vision and guiding its coverage for approximately forty years while serving in a variety of editorial capacities.\n\nIn 1954, she published a second book, \"Africa, Land of My Fathers\", based on a tour of 18 countries in Africa. Thompson was still listed as an editor of \"Ebony\" in 1985, an indication of her longevity with the publication. She was praised for her efforts in promoting both racial and gender understanding. She died in Chicago on December 30, 1986.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096225", "title": "Atani", "text": "Atani\n\nAtani is a city on the eastern bank of the Niger River in Anambra State, Nigeria. It was a town populated by early fishermen and migrant settlers. Atani is still the rice, fish, yam and cassava basin of Anambra state, producing most of the food sold in many markets in Delta and Anambra States. Atani is believed to possess commercial quantities of unexploited crude oil.\nThe population has grown to an estimated 230,000.\n\nThe few private industries in town involve fish processing and rice packaging. \n\n\nPolitical:\n\nAtani is the headquarter of Ogbaru Local Government Area, a Local Government in the Northern Senatorial District of Anambra State.\n"}
{"id": "2096232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096232", "title": "Geology of the Moon", "text": "Geology of the Moon\n\nThe geology of the Moon (sometimes called selenology, although the latter term can refer more generally to \"lunar science\") is quite different from that of Earth. The Moon lacks a true atmosphere, which eliminates erosion due to weather; it does not have any known form of plate tectonics, it has a lower gravity, and because of its small size, it cooled more rapidly. The complex geomorphology of the lunar surface has been formed by a combination of processes, especially impact cratering and volcanism. The Moon is a differentiated body, with a crust, mantle, and core.\n\nGeological studies of the Moon are based on a combination of Earth-based telescope observations, measurements from orbiting spacecraft, lunar samples, and geophysical data. Six locations were sampled directly during the crewed Apollo program landings from 1969 to 1972, which returned of lunar rock and lunar soil to Earth. In addition, three robotic Soviet Luna spacecraft returned another from 1970 to 1976. The Moon is the only extraterrestrial body for which we have samples with a known geologic context. A handful of lunar meteorites have been recognized on Earth, though their source craters on the Moon are unknown. A substantial portion of the lunar surface has not been explored, and a number of geological questions remain unanswered.\n\nElements known to be present on the lunar surface include, among others, oxygen (O), silicon (Si), iron (Fe), magnesium (Mg), calcium (Ca), aluminium (Al), manganese (Mn) and titanium (Ti). Among the more abundant are oxygen, iron and silicon. The oxygen content is estimated at 45% (by weight). Carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) appear to be present only in trace quantities from deposition by solar wind.\n\nFor a long period of time, the fundamental question regarding the history of the Moon was of its origin. Early hypotheses included \"fission\" from Earth, \"capture\", and \"co-accretion\". Today, the giant-impact hypothesis is widely accepted by the scientific community.\n\nThe geological history of the Moon has been defined into six major epochs, called the lunar geologic timescale. Starting about 4.5 billion years ago, the newly formed Moon was in a molten state and was orbiting much closer to Earth resulting in tidal forces. These tidal forces deformed the molten body into an ellipsoid, with the major axis pointed towards Earth.\n\nThe first important event in the geologic evolution of the Moon was the crystallization of the near global magma ocean. It is not known with certainty what its depth was, but several studies imply a depth of about 500 km or greater. The first minerals to form in this ocean were the iron and magnesium silicates olivine and pyroxene. Because these minerals were denser than the molten material around them, they sank. After crystallization was about 75% complete, less dense anorthositic plagioclase feldspar crystallized and floated, forming an anorthositic crust about 50 km in thickness. The majority of the magma ocean crystallized quickly (within about 100 million years or less), though the final remaining KREEP-rich magmas, which are highly enriched in incompatible and heat-producing elements, could have remained partially molten for several hundred million (or perhaps 1 billion) years. It appears that the final KREEP-rich magmas of the magma ocean eventually became concentrated within the region of Oceanus Procellarum and the Imbrium basin, a unique geologic province that is now known as the Procellarum KREEP Terrane.\nQuickly after the lunar crust formed, or even as it was forming, different types of magmas that would give rise to the Mg-suite norites and troctolites began to form, although the exact depths at which this occurred are not known precisely. Recent theories suggest that Mg-suite plutonism was largely confined to the region of the Procellarum KREEP Terrane, and that these magmas are genetically related to KREEP in some manner, though their origin is still highly debated in the scientific community. The oldest of the Mg-suite rocks have crystallization ages of about 3.85 Ga. However, the last large impact that could have excavated deep into the crust (the Imbrium basin) also occurred at 3.85 Ga before present. Thus, it seems probable that Mg-suite plutonic activity continued for a much longer time, and that younger plutonic rocks exist deep below the surface.\n\nAnalysis of the lunar samples seems to imply that a significant percentage of the lunar impact basins formed within a very short period of time between about 4 and 3.85 Ga ago. This hypothesis is referred to as the lunar cataclysm or late heavy bombardment. However, it is now recognized that ejecta from the Imbrium impact basin (one of the youngest large impact basins on the Moon) should be found at all of the \"Apollo\" landing sites. It is thus possible that ages for some impact basins (in particular Mare Nectaris) could have been mistakenly assigned the same age as Imbrium.\n\nThe lunar maria represent ancient flood basaltic eruptions. In comparison to terrestrial lavas, these contain higher iron abundances, have low viscosities, and some contain highly elevated abundances of the titanium-rich mineral ilmenite. The majority of basaltic eruptions occurred between about 3 and 3.5 Ga ago, though some mare samples have ages as old as 4.2 Ga, and the youngest (based on the method of crater counting) are thought to have erupted 1 billion years ago. Along with mare volcanism came pyroclastic eruptions, which launched molten basaltic materials hundreds of kilometers away from the volcano. A large portion of the mare formed, or flowed into, the low elevations associated with the nearside impact basins. However, Oceanus Procellarum does not correspond to any known impact structure, and the lowest elevations of the Moon within the farside South Pole-Aitken basin are only modestly covered by mare (see lunar mare for a more detailed discussion).\n\nImpacts by meteorites and comets are the only abrupt geologic force acting on the Moon today, though the variation of Earth tides on the scale of the Lunar anomalistic month causes small variations in stresses. Some of the most important craters used in lunar stratigraphy formed in this recent epoch. For example, the crater Copernicus, which has a depth of 3.76 km and a radius of 93 km, is estimated to have formed about 900 million years ago (though this is debatable). The \"Apollo 17\" mission landed in an area in which the material coming from the crater Tycho might have been sampled. The study of these rocks seem to indicate that this crater could have formed 100 million years ago, though this is debatable as well. The surface has also experienced space weathering due to high energy particles, solar wind implantation, and micrometeorite impacts. This process causes the ray systems associated with young craters to darken until it matches the albedo of the surrounding surface. However, if the composition of the ray is different from the underlying crustal materials (as might occur when a \"highland\" ray is emplaced on the mare), the ray could be visible for much longer times.\n\nAfter resumption of Lunar exploration in the 1990s, it was discovered there are scarps across the globe that are caused by the contraction due to cooling of the Moon.\n\nOn the top of the lunar stratigraphical sequence rayed impact craters can be found. Such youngest craters belong to the Copernican unit. Below it can be found craters without the ray system, but with rather well developed impact crater morphology. This is the Eratosthenian unit. The two younger stratigraphical units can be found in crater sized spots on the Moon. Below them two extending strata can be found: mare units (earlier defined as Procellarian unit) and the Imbrium basin related ejecta and tectonic units (Imbrian units). Another impact basin related unit is the Nectarian unit, defined around the Nectarian Basin. At the bottom of the lunar stratigraphical sequence the pre-Nectarian unit of old crater plains can be found. The stratigraphy of Mercury is very similar to the lunar case.\n\nThe lunar landscape is characterized by impact craters, their ejecta, a few volcanoes, hills, lava flows and depressions filled by magma.\nThe most distinctive aspect of the Moon is the contrast between its bright and dark zones. Lighter surfaces are the lunar highlands, which receive the name of \"terrae\" (singular \"terra\", from the Latin for Earth), and the darker plains are called \"maria\" (singular \"mare\", from the Latin for sea), after Johannes Kepler who introduced the name in the 17th century. The highlands are anorthositic in composition, whereas the maria are basaltic. The maria often coincide with the \"lowlands,\" but it is important to note that the lowlands (such as within the South Pole-Aitken basin) are not always covered by maria. The highlands are older than the visible maria, and hence are more heavily cratered.\n\nThe major products of volcanic processes on the Moon are evident to Earth-bound observers in the form of the lunar maria. These are large flows of basaltic lava that correspond to low-albedo surfaces covering nearly a third of the near side. Only a few percent of the farside has been affected by mare volcanism. Even before the Apollo missions confirmed it, most scientists already thought that the maria are lava-filled plains, because they have lava flow patterns and collapses attributed to lava tubes.\n\nThe ages of the mare basalts have been determined both by direct radiometric dating and by the technique of crater counting. The oldest radiometric ages are about 4.2 Ga, whereas the youngest ages determined from crater counting are about 1 Ga (1 Ga = 1 billion years). Volumetrically, most of the mare formed between about 3 and 3.5 Ga before present. The youngest lavas erupted within Oceanus Procellarum, whereas some of the oldest appear to be located on the farside. The maria are clearly younger than the surrounding highlands given their lower density of impact craters.\nA large portion of maria erupted within, or flowed into, the low-lying impact basins on the lunar nearside. However, it is unlikely that a causal relationship exists between the impact event and mare volcanism because the impact basins are much older (by about 500 million years) than the mare fill. Furthermore, Oceanus Procellarum, which is the largest expanse of mare volcanism on the Moon, does not correspond to any known impact basin. It is commonly suggested that the reason the mare only erupted on the nearside is that the nearside crust is thinner than the farside. Although variations in the crustal thickness might act to modulate the amount of magma that ultimately reaches the surface, this hypothesis does not explain why the farside South Pole-Aitken basin, whose crust is thinner than Oceanus Procellarum, was only modestly filled by volcanic products.\n\nAnother type of deposit associated with the maria, although it also covers the highland areas, are the \"dark mantle\" deposits. These deposits cannot be seen with the naked eye, but they can be seen in images taken from telescopes or orbiting spacecraft. Before the Apollo missions, scientists predicted that they were deposits produced by pyroclastic eruptions. Some deposits appear to be associated with dark elongated ash cones, reinforcing the idea of pyroclasts. The existence of pyroclastic eruptions was later confirmed by the discovery of glass spherules similar to those found in pyroclastic eruptions here on Earth.\n\nMany of the lunar basalts contain small holes called vesicles, which were formed by gas bubbles exsolving from the magma at the vacuum conditions encountered at the surface. It is not known with certainty which gases escaped these rocks, but carbon monoxide is one candidate.\n\nThe samples of pyroclastic glasses are of green, yellow, and red tints. The difference in color indicates the concentration of titanium that the rock has, with the green particles having the lowest concentrations (about 1%), and red particles having the highest concentrations (up to 14%, much more than the basalts with the highest concentrations).\n\nRilles on the Moon sometimes resulted from the formation of localized lava channels. These generally fall into three categories, consisting of sinuous, arcuate, or linear shapes. By following these meandering rilles back to their source, they often lead to an old volcanic vent. One of the most notable sinuous rilles is the Vallis Schröteri feature, located in the Aristarchus plateau along the eastern edge of Oceanus Procellarum. An example of a sinuous rille exists at the Apollo 15 landing site, Rima Hadley, located on the rim of the Imbrium Basin. Based on observations from the mission, it is generally thought that this rille was formed by volcanic processes, a topic long debated before the mission took place.\n\nA variety of shield volcanoes can be found in selected locations on the lunar surface, such as on Mons Rümker. These are thought to be formed by relatively viscous, possibly silica-rich lava, erupting from localized vents. The resulting lunar domes are wide, rounded, circular features with a gentle slope rising in elevation a few hundred meters to the midpoint. They are typically 8–12 km in diameter, but can be up to 20 km across. Some of the domes contain a small pit at their peak.\n\nWrinkle ridges are features created by compressive tectonic forces within the maria. These features represent buckling of the surface and form long ridges across parts of the maria. Some of these ridges may outline buried craters or other features beneath the maria. A prime example of such an outlined feature is the crater Letronne.\n\nGrabens are tectonic features that form under extensional stresses. Structurally, they are composed of two normal faults, with a down-dropped block between them. Most grabens are found within the lunar maria near the edges of large impact basins.\n\nThe origin of the Moon's craters as impact features became widely accepted only in the 1960s. This realization allowed the impact history of the Moon to be gradually worked out by means of the geologic principle of superposition. That is, if a crater (or its ejecta) overlaid another, it must be the younger. The amount of erosion experienced by a crater was another clue to its age, though this is more subjective. Adopting this approach in the late 1950s, Gene Shoemaker took the systematic study of the Moon away from the astronomers and placed it firmly in the hands of the lunar geologists.\n\nImpact cratering is the most notable geological process on the Moon. The craters are formed when a solid body, such as an asteroid or comet, collides with the surface at a high velocity (mean impact velocities for the Moon are about 17 km per second). The kinetic energy of the impact creates a compression shock wave that radiates away from the point of entry. This is succeeded by a rarefaction wave, which is responsible for propelling most of the ejecta out of the crater. Finally there is a hydrodynamic rebound of the floor that can create a central peak.\n\nThese craters appear in a continuum of diameters across the surface of the Moon, ranging in size from tiny pits to the immense South Pole–Aitken basin with a diameter of nearly 2,500 km and a depth of 13 km. In a very general sense, the lunar history of impact cratering follows a trend of decreasing crater size with time. In particular, the largest impact basins were formed during the early periods, and these were successively overlaid by smaller craters. The size frequency distribution (SFD) of crater diameters on a given surface (that is, the number of craters as a function of diameter) approximately follows a power law with increasing number of craters with decreasing crater size. The vertical position of this curve can be used to estimate the age of the surface.\nThe most recent impacts are distinguished by well-defined features, including a sharp-edged rim. Small craters tend to form a bowl shape, whereas larger impacts can have a central peak with flat floors. Larger craters generally display slumping features along the inner walls that can form terraces and ledges. The largest impact basins, the multiring basins, can even have secondary concentric rings of raised material.\n\nThe impact process excavates high albedo materials that initially gives the crater, ejecta, and ray system a bright appearance. The process of space weathering gradually decreases the albedo of this material such that the rays fade with time. Gradually the crater and its ejecta undergo impact erosion from micrometeorites and smaller impacts. This erosional process softens and rounds the features of the crater. The crater can also be covered in ejecta from other impacts, which can submerge features and even bury the central peak.\n\nThe ejecta from large impacts can include large blocks of material that reimpact the surface to form secondary impact craters. These craters are sometimes formed in clearly discernible radial patterns, and generally have shallower depths than primary craters of the same size. In some cases an entire line of these blocks can impact to form a valley. These are distinguished from \"catena\", or crater chains, which are linear strings of craters that are formed when the impact body breaks up prior to impact.\n\nGenerally speaking, a lunar crater is roughly circular in form. Laboratory experiments at NASA's Ames Research Center have demonstrated that even very low-angle impacts tend to produce circular craters, and that elliptical craters start forming at impact angles below five degrees. However, a low angle impact can produce a central peak that is offset from the midpoint of the crater. Additionally, the ejecta from oblique impacts show distinctive patterns at different impact angles: asymmetry starting around 60˚ and a wedge-shaped \"zone of avoidance\" free of ejecta in the direction the projectile came from starting around 45˚.\n\n\"Dark-halo craters\" are formed when an impact excavates lower albedo material from beneath the surface, then deposits this darker ejecta around the main crater. This can occur when an area of darker basaltic material, such as that found on the maria, is later covered by lighter ejecta derived from more distant impacts in the highlands. This covering conceals the darker material below, which is later excavated by subsequent craters.\n\nThe largest impacts produced melt sheets of molten rock that covered portions of the surface that could be as thick as a kilometer. Examples of such impact melt can be seen in the northeastern part of the Mare Orientale impact basin.\n\nThe surface of the Moon has been subject to billions of years of collisions with both small and large asteroidal and cometary materials. Over time, these impact processes have pulverized and \"gardened\" the surface materials, forming a fine-grained layer termed \"regolith\". The thickness of the lunar regolith varies between beneath the younger maria, to up to beneath the oldest surfaces of the lunar highlands. The regolith is predominantly composed of materials found in the region, but also contains traces of materials ejected by distant impact craters. The term \"mega-regolith\" is often used to describe the heavily fractured bedrock directly beneath the near-surface regolith layer.\n\nThe regolith contains rocks, fragments of minerals from the original bedrock, and glassy particles formed during the impacts. In most of the lunar regolith, half of the particles are made of mineral fragments fused by the glassy particles; these objects are called agglutinates. The chemical composition of the regolith varies according to its location; the regolith in the highlands is rich in aluminium and silica, just as the rocks in those regions. The regolith in the maria is rich in iron and magnesium and is silica-poor, as are the basaltic rocks from which it is formed.\n\nThe lunar regolith is very important because it also stores information about the history of the Sun. The atoms that compose the solar wind – mostly helium, neon, carbon and nitrogen – hit the lunar surface and insert themselves into the mineral grains. Upon analyzing the composition of the regolith, particularly its isotopic composition, it is possible to determine if the activity of the Sun has changed with time. The gases of the solar wind could be useful for future lunar bases, because oxygen, hydrogen (water), carbon and nitrogen are not only essential to sustain life, but are also potentially very useful in the production of fuel. The composition of the lunar regolith can also be used to infer its source origin.\n\nLunar lava tubes form a potentially important location for constructing a future lunar base, which may be used for local exploration and development, or as a human outpost to serve exploration beyond the Moon. A lunar lava cave potential has long been suggested and discussed in literature and thesis. Any intact lava tube on the Moon could serve as a shelter from the severe environment of the lunar surface, with its frequent meteorite impacts, high-energy ultraviolet radiation and energetic particles, and extreme diurnal temperature variations. Following the launch of the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, many lunar lava tubes have been imaged. These lunar pits are found in several locations across the Moon, including Marius Hills, Mare Ingenii and Mare Tranquillitatis.\n\nThe first rocks brought back by Apollo 11 were basalts. Although the mission landed on Mare Tranquillitatis, a few millimetric fragments of rocks coming from the highlands were picked up. These are composed mainly of plagioclase feldspar; some fragments were composed exclusively of anorthositic plagioclase. The identification of these mineral fragments led to the bold hypothesis that a large portion of the Moon was once molten, and that the crust formed by fractional crystallization of this magma ocean.\n\nA natural outcome of the hypothetical giant-impact event is that the materials that re-accreted to form the Moon must have been hot. Current models predict that a large portion of the Moon would have been molten shortly after the Moon formed, with estimates for the depth of this magma ocean ranging from about 500 km to complete melting. Crystallization of this magma ocean would have given rise to a differentiated body with a compositionally distinct crust and mantle and accounts for the major suites of lunar rocks.\n\nAs crystallization of the lunar magma ocean proceeded, minerals such as olivine and pyroxene would have precipitated and sank to form the lunar mantle. After crystallization was about three-quarters complete, anorthositic plagioclase would have begun to crystallize, and because of its low density, float, forming an anorthositic crust. Importantly, elements that are incompatible (i.e., those that partition preferentially into the liquid phase) would have been progressively concentrated into the magma as crystallization progressed, forming a KREEP-rich magma that initially should have been sandwiched between the crust and mantle. Evidence for this scenario comes from the highly anorthositic composition of the lunar highland crust, as well as the existence of KREEP-rich materials.\n\nThe Apollo program brought back of lunar surface material, most of which is stored at the Lunar Receiving Laboratory in Houston, Texas, and the uncrewed Soviet Luna programme returned of lunar material. These rocks have proved to be invaluable in deciphering the geologic evolution of the Moon. Lunar rocks are in large part made of the same common rock forming minerals as found on Earth, such as olivine, pyroxene, and plagioclase feldspar (anorthosite). Plagioclase feldspar is mostly found in the lunar crust, whereas pyroxene and olivine are typically seen in the lunar mantle. The mineral ilmenite is highly abundant in some mare basalts, and a new mineral named armalcolite (named for \"Arm\"strong, \"Al\"drin, and \"Col\"lins, the three members of the Apollo 11 crew) was first discovered in the lunar samples.\n\nThe maria are composed predominantly of basalt, whereas the highland regions are iron-poor and composed primarily of anorthosite, a rock composed primarily of calcium-rich plagioclase feldspar. Another significant component of the crust are the igneous \"Mg-suite\" rocks, such as the troctolites, norites, and KREEP-basalts. These rocks are thought to be related to the petrogenesis of KREEP.\n\nComposite rocks on the lunar surface often appear in the form of breccias. Of these, the subcategories are called fragmental, granulitic, and impact-melt breccias, depending on how they were formed. The mafic impact melt breccias, which are typified by the \"low-K Fra Mauro\" composition, have a higher proportion of iron and magnesium than typical upper crust anorthositic rocks, as well as higher abundances of KREEP.\n\nThe main characteristics of the basaltic rocks with respect to the rocks of the lunar highlands is that the basalts contain higher abundances of olivine and pyroxene, and less plagioclase. They are richer in iron than terrestrial basalts, and also have lower viscosities. Some of them have high abundances of a ferro-titanic oxide called ilmenite. Because the first sampling of rocks contained a high content of ilmenite and other related minerals, they received the name of \"high titanium\" basalts. The Apollo 12 mission returned to Earth with basalts of lower titanium concentrations, and these were dubbed \"low titanium\" basalts. Subsequent missions, including the Soviet robotic probes, returned with basalts with even lower concentrations, now called \"very low titanium\" basalts. The \"Clementine\" space probe returned data showing that the mare basalts have a continuum in titanium concentrations, with the highest concentration rocks being the least abundant.\n\nThe current model of the interior of the Moon was derived using seismometers left behind during the crewed Apollo program missions, as well as investigations of the Moon's gravity field and rotation.\n\nThe mass of the Moon is sufficient to eliminate any voids within the interior, so it is estimated to be composed of solid rock throughout. Its low bulk density (~3346 kg m) indicates a low metal abundance. Mass and moment of inertia constraints indicate that the Moon likely has an iron core that is less than about 450 km in radius. Studies of the Moon's physical librations (small perturbations to its rotation) furthermore indicate that the core is still molten. Most planetary bodies and moons have iron cores that are about half the size of the body. The Moon is thus anomalous in having a core whose size is only about one quarter of its radius.\n\nThe crust of the Moon is on average about 50 km thick (though this is uncertain by about ±15 km). It is estimated that the far-side crust is on average thicker than the near side by about 15 km. Seismology has constrained the thickness of the crust only near the Apollo 12 and Apollo 14 landing sites. Although the initial \"Apollo\"-era analyses suggested a crustal thickness of about 60 km at this site, recent reanalyses of this data suggest that it is thinner, somewhere between about 30 and 45 km.\n\nCompared with that of Earth, the Moon has only a very weak external magnetic field. Other major differences are that the Moon does not currently have a dipolar magnetic field (as would be generated by a geodynamo in its core), and the magnetizations that are present are almost entirely crustal in origin. One hypothesis holds that the crustal magnetizations were acquired early in lunar history when a geodynamo was still operating. The small size of the lunar core, however, is a potential obstacle to this hypothesis. Alternatively, it is possible that on airless bodies such as the Moon, transient magnetic fields could be generated during impact processes. In support of this, it has been noted that the largest crustal magnetizations appear to be located near the antipodes of the largest impact basins.\nAlthough the Moon does not have a dipolar magnetic field like Earth's, some of the returned rocks do have strong magnetizations. Furthermore, measurements from orbit show that some portions of the lunar surface are associated with strong magnetic fields.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096240", "title": "Ćunski", "text": "Ćunski\n\nĆunski () is a small village in the central part of the island of Lošinj, Croatia. It is sheltered from the bora (adriatic northern wind) and is located on the southern slope of a hill with a view of the western shores of the Kvarner bay. \n\nThe main road below Ćunski branches off leading to the Lošinj airfield. Also nearby on the western coast is Artatore, which is a popular tourist town.\n\nThe present village is no longer the original old settlement which evolved from a fort dating back to Roman times. As the land here was fertile, and the sea was rich with fish, the area was populated as early as the Bronze Age, and during Roman times there were numerous villas (villae rusticae) along the shores. Ruins of one villa is still recognizable in the Studencic bay, together with the remains of a sarcophagus. An old built-up fountain also still exists there.\n\nDuring the 16th century the old church of St. Nicholas was built, then enlarged in 1784, in appearance very similar to the St. Mary Magdalene church in Nerezine. It was torn down in order to build a simple, single-nave church with a rectangular sanctuary in 1908, which is still there today, with a belltower added in 1923. Unfortunately, there is very little left of the original lavish artistic interior decorations. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096245", "title": "Supersilent", "text": "Supersilent\n\nSupersilent is a Norwegian avant-garde-improvisational music group formed at Nattjazz in Bergen in 1997 when the trio Veslefrekk was asked to play with Deathprod. The meeting of experimental jazz groups with Helge Sten's rumbling drones and noise was so successful that the quartet Supersilent appeared. That same year, their triple debut album \"1-3\" was released as the first release on the record label Rune Grammofon. The band attracted attention with their aggressive combination of improvised jazz, frirock and noise blowouts. They are known for making only improvised music and for the distinctive uniformity of their album covers.\n\nMany details regarding the band suggests jazz as a classification: three of the four members of the band were formally educated as jazz musicians, the group regularly participate in jazz festivals, and their approach is to a certain extent informed by more amorphous, freer forms of jazz. However, their prominent use of electronic instrumentation such as synthesizers, theremin, loop pedals, and tape loops, as well as the rejection of traditional jazz structures, leads some to place the group's music outside their personal conception of the jazz genre.\n\nSupersilent was formed in 1997, when the free jazz trio Veslefrekk (Arve Henriksen on trumpet, keyboardist Ståle Storløkken, and Jarle Vespestad on drums) played a concert with producer and live electronics artist Helge Sten (also known as Deathprod). The concert encouraged them to record a three-disc, three-hour compilation of abrasive improvised material, simply titled \"1-3\", which was the label Rune Grammofon's first release in 1997. The name Supersilent derives from a logo on a truck seen in Oslo by the group around the time of these sessions.\n\nThey refined their sound slightly on the follow-up, \"4\", which was released a year after, and in 2001, they released \"5\", culled from live recordings between 1999 and 2000 that changed the focus to slowly shifting textures and an almost ambient pace. \n\nTheir 2003 release \"6\" is their most critically acclaimed album yet, with a focus on gentler and more melodic material. \"7\", released in 2005, is a DVD concert film showcasing a 2004 performance in its entirety, and is another of the group's most acclaimed works. Supersilent played at the Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival 2005.\n\nStorløkken is known from nearly a decade's cooperation with Terje Rypdal's Skywards, and in 2007 Supersilent joined with Rypdal at Moldejazz for a concert.\n\n\"8\" was a studio album released in 2007 to mostly positive reviews. The material recorded in the \"8\" sessions was initially publicly announced for release as a double album entitled \"8-9\", but only a single album was released. Further material from these sessions was released in 2010 as the vinyl-only album \"11\".\n\nEarly in 2009, the group announced that their drummer Jarle Vespestad had departed to pursue other musical interests. The remaining three members continued recording material and appearing live. Their seventh release, \"9\", was released in late 2009, and is a documentation of a single concert the trio performed earlier that year, featuring non-standard instrumentation (three Hammond organs).\n\nThe group's next release has been revealed to be made up of \"more acoustic\" material, featuring the use of piano, recorded in the studio by the trio prior to the recording of \"9\". Entitled \"10\", this album was released on August 23, 2010.\n\nSupersilent has over the last 14 years become one of the most acclaimed improvisational bands. John Paul Jones used the opportunity to join them at the \"Punkt festival\" 2010, in Kristiansand, Norway. The bassist and multi-instrumentalist Jones has a long and eventful career as a rock musician, best known from Led Zeppelin and Them Crooked Vultures. The spontaneous and improvised collaboration with Supersilent was interesting, and they met again for new performance at Moldejazz 2012.\n\nThe packaging of the group's albums, designed by Kim Hiorthøy, is of a minimalist aesthetic: entirely white, with the exception of the cover and CD or LP label, which are printed a different colour on each release. Each label displays information about the tracks contained on the disc, and each cover displays the name and album number of the release, along with a barcode and recording and catalog details.\n\nIn keeping with the format of numbering each album, each track is numbered, reflecting the designation of the album it appears on and its position within the album. For example, the fourth track on the album \"5\" is entitled \"5.4\".\n\nTracks unreleased on any album but contributed to promotional compilations are prefixed with the letter C and are numbered after the compilation they appear on. For example, the track contributed to the third compilation the group were involved with was named \"C - 3.1\". Thus far, seven such tracks have been released between 1999 and 2010, each on a different compilation.\n\n\n\nAll titles released by Rune Grammofon. Titles are live studio albums unless otherwise noted.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096257", "title": "Ronald Davies (judge)", "text": "Ronald Davies (judge)\n\nRonald Norwood Davies (December 11, 1904 – April 18, 1996) was a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of North Dakota. He is best known for his role in the Little Rock Integration Crisis in the fall of 1957. Davies ordered the desegregation of the previously all-white Little Rock Central High.\n\nDavies was born on December 11, 1904, in Crookston in Polk County in northwestern Minnesota. In 1927, he received an Artium Baccalaureus degree from the College of Liberal Arts at the University of North Dakota at Grand Forks, North Dakota. In 1930, he received a Bachelor of Laws from Georgetown Law in Washington, D.C. He practiced law in Grand Forks from 1930 to 1932, before becoming a Judge of the Grand Forks Municipal Court from 1932 to 1940. In 1940, Davies and a fellow Grand Forks attorney, Charles F. Peterson, formed a private law practice. During World War II, Davies served in the United States Army from 1942 to 1946. After the war, Davies went back to his private practice from 1946 to 1955.\n\nOn June 21, 1955, Davies was nominated by President Dwight D. Eisenhower to a seat on the United States District Court for the District of North Dakota, based in Fargo, vacated by Judge Charles Joseph Vogel. Davies was confirmed by the United States Senate on July 22, 1955, and received his commission on July 27, 1955. He assumed senior status on August 27, 1971. His service terminated on April 18, 1996, due to his death in Fargo.\n\nDavies is perhaps best known for challenging Orval Faubus, the Governor of Arkansas, during the 1957 Little Rock Integration Crisis. On August 22, 1957, Judge Archibald K. Gardner of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit temporarily assigned Judge Davies to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas in Little Rock, the state capital of Arkansas, where no judge had been sitting for several months.\n\nOsro Cobb, the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas, describes Davies, accordingly:\nHe was a comparatively new jurist and was full of energy, ready to tackle the large docket of cases that had accumulated during the many months when no judge was sitting at Little Rock. The condition of the docket was the reason for his assignment. I spent long hours briefing Judge Davies about the crowded docket because the government was a party to about 30 percent of the cases on it. The integration fight was boiling in the local media, but no motion or pleading relating to it was on file in the district court when Judge Davies began his duties in Little Rock. All such matters heard by him originated after his arrival in Little Rock in August 1957.\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States issued its \"Brown v. Topeka Board of Education\" decision (347 U.S. 483) on May 17, 1954. The decision called for the desegregation of all public schools. In 1955, the court declared that the desegregation process must continue with \"all deliberate speed\". The Little Rock School Board unanimously decided to comply with the high court's ruling and agreed to a gradual desegregation plan, which would be implemented in the 1958 school year.\n\nBy 1957, the NAACP had registered nine black students to attend the all-white Little Rock Central High School. Meanwhile, the \"Mother's League\", a segregationist parents group, requested an injunction against the Little Rock School Board to prevent the nine students from attending the school. Segregationist parents also threatened to protest in front of the high school and physically block any black students from entering the school. Murray Reed, the chancellor of Pulaski County Chancery Court, granted the injunction on August 27, 1956, \"on the grounds that integration could lead to violence.\" Judge Davies, however, nullified the injunction on August 30 and ordered the school board to proceed with integration on September 3.\nDespite the federal court's ruling, Governor Faubus deployed the Arkansas National Guard to the school under the pretense of maintaining civil order. The nine black students attempted to enter Central High on September 4, 1957, but were turned away by the guardsmen. The deployment of the guardsmen brought international attention to Little Rock. President Eisenhower called Governor Faubus to his vacation home in Newport, Rhode Island on September 14, 1957, and warned him not to interfere with the Supreme Court's ruling.\n\nAttorneys from the United States Department of Justice requested an injunction against the governor's deployment of the National Guard, which Judge Davies granted on September 20, 1957. Davies ruled that Faubus had used the troops to prevent integration, not to preserve law and order as claimed. Davies ordered the Governor to remove the guardsmen. The Governor backed down and withdrew the guardsmen during the weekend. Afterwards the Little Rock Police Department attempted to sneak the nine students into the school on Monday, September 23, 1957. However, the nine were escorted out when angry parents of white students inside begin confronting the outnumbered police.\n\nThe next day, the Mayor of Little Rock, Woodrow Wilson Mann, requested federal troops to enforce integration at Central High. President Eisenhower deployed the 101st Airborne Division to the school to escort the nine students and the division remained there for the remainder of the school year. The Mother's League petitioned Judge Davies to force the removal of the federal troops on October 17, 1957, but he dismissed the petition.\n\nOsro Cobb recalls that \"a deluge of vile and threatening cards and letters\" addressed to Judge Davies arrived at the post office in Little Rock. According to Cobb,\nMuch of it never reached him, but he knew about the quantity and substance of the mail and showed me several letters that he had kept. Surprisingly, more than half of the threatening mail came from the Chicago area. Judge Davies was not frightened by the threats and calumny heaped on him, but he did agree to sensible protection measures. A deputy United States Marshal guarded him twenty-four hours a day, and no attempt was made on his life. One weekend, he had to return to North Dakota. No information was released on the trip, and it was planned with a minimum of exposure in Chicago...[There were] rumors about alleged astonishing increases in sales of firearms, knives, ammunition, and dynamite, and of threats of violence against key school personnel. There were reports of bombs being placed in the school itself. ... several bombings and attempted bombings [occurred] before the school crisis abated...\n\nDavies is a recipient of the Rough Rider Award, the highest honor presented by the state of North Dakota in honor of Theodore Roosevelt. The Ronald N. Davies Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse in Grand Forks is named in his memory. In 2011, Fargo established the Judge Ronald N. Davies High School.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096260", "title": "Sandungueo", "text": "Sandungueo\n\nSandungueo, also known as \"Perreo\", is a style of dance and party music associated with reggaeton that emerged in the late 1980s in Puerto Rico. The dance resembles twerking. This style of dancing and music was created by DJ Blass, hence his Sandunguero Vol. 1 & 2 albums. It is a dance that focuses on grinding, also known as perreo, with one partner facing the back of the other (usually male behind female). This is also known as \"booty dancing\" or \"grinding\" in the United States of America.\n\nSandungueo is a front-to-back dance, usually with a man facing the back of a woman. The moves focus on grinding and pelvic thrusts. They can be seen in music videos and night clubs. \n\nIt is a rare form of dance in which a woman usually takes the lead. Taking the lead in the sensual experience of both parties was appealing to some women. Drawing on research conducted in Cuba by ethnomusicologist Vincenzo Perna (see his book \"Timba, the sound of the Cuban crisis\", Ashgate 2005), author Jan Fairley suggested that this style of dance, along with other timba moves such as \"despelote\", \"tembleque\", and \"subasta de la cintura\", in which the woman is both in control and the main focus of the dance, can be traced to the economic status of Cuba in the 1990s and to the choreographic forms of popular music dancing of that period, particularly in relation to Afro-Cuban timba. As the US Dollar (which functioned as a dual currency alongside the Cuban Peso until 2001) became more valuable, women changed their style of dance to be more visually appealing to men; in particular, to \"yumas\" (\"foreigners\"), who had dollars. This tension between use of the female body as both an objectified commodity and an active, self-created persuasive tool is one of the many paradoxes dembow dancing creates in Cuba.\n\nSandungueo was the subject of a national controversy in Puerto Rico as reggaeton music and the predominantly lower class culture it derived from became more popular and widely available. Velda González, a well known senator and public figure in Puerto Rico and Dominican Republic, led a campaign against reggaeton and specifically attacked the sandungueo style of dancing, which she marked as overtly erotic, sexually explicit, and degrading to women.\n\nSandungueo has also been much criticized in Cuba. Part of the criticism may be due to its association with reggaeton, which, while very popular in Cuba, has also been heavily criticized for being degrading to women. Perreo has been seen as a departure from classical front-to-front dancing (salsa etc.) to back-to-front dancing. Some Cuban dancers argue that this puts women in control. Others have argued that it is un-Cuban, and the Cuban government seemed to agree when it banned reggaeton (which was sometimes referred to as Cubaton) in Cuba in 2012.\n\nA remix called \"Perreo intenso\" was one of the popular songs during the Telegramgate protests that led to the Puerto Rican governor, Ricardo Rosselló's renouncing his position.\n\nAn analysis of Puerto Rico's discourse shows politicians and reggaeton artists denouncing each other's corruption and immoral behavior, respectively. SWAT teams on hand, a () was going on in front of the governor's mansion when he announced his resignation.\n\nDoble Paso is a form of Sandungueo or Perreo in which the rhythm and the tempo of the songs is faster, resulting in a dance form which is more sexually explicit and intense. Doble Paso is mainly emerging and gaining popularity among Puerto Rican teens; thus causing parents and the conservative community to criticize this form of dance. \n"}
{"id": "2096268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096268", "title": "Joseph T. Dawson", "text": "Joseph T. Dawson\n\nJoseph Turner Dawson (March 20, 1914 – November 28, 1998) was an officer in the U.S. 1st Infantry Division during World War II.\n\nJoseph Turner Dawson was the third child of Baptist clergyman Joseph Martin Dawson and Willie Turner Dawson and was born in Temple, Texas. His father, Joseph Martin Dawson was the minister of the First Baptist Church in Waco, Texas. He graduated from Baylor University in 1933 and pursued a career as a geologist, first with Humble Oil and Refining in Houston and then beginning in 1938 with the Ren-War Oil Corporation in Corpus Christi, Texas.\n\nDawson enlisted in the Army in May, 1941 as a private, and rapidly was promoted to corporal. He applied for admission to Officer Candidate School, and his application was accepted and he entered OCS at Fort Benning, Georgia, in December, 1941. He graduated in March, 1942 and received his commission as a second lieutenant. He sought to be assigned to the First Division, the fabled Big Red One, since that assignment offered the most immediate prospect for combat duty. He initially was assigned to the 1st platoon, Company A, 1st Battalion, 16th Regiment. After Gen. Terry Allen assumed command of the 1st Division, Dawson was assigned to serve on his staff.\n\nThe 1st Division shipped out to Scotland in August, 1942. After further training, the Division embarked in late October for its destination, the invasion of North Africa on the coast of Algeria. Dawson waded ashore at Oman with Gen. Allen and his staff on November 10. The division fought across Algeria and entered Tunisia in January, 1943, where it first encountered German forces under Field Marshal Rommel. Dawson remained on Gen. Allen's staff through the conclusion of the North Africa campaign in Algeria and Tunisia and was promoted to captain in February, 1943. The Germans surrendered in Tunisia in May.\n\nThe 1st Division returned to Oman to prepare for the invasion of Sicily, which began with amphibious landings at Gela on the west coast on July 10. During the campaign in Sicily later in July, Dawson was transferred from Gen. Allen's staff to the staff of the 16th Regiment, serving as regimental operations officer. In early August, in the midst of fierce combat operations, Dawson was assigned to command Company G of the 16th Regiment, a position he would continue to hold until the conclusion of the battle of Aachen, Germany, in October, 1944. After completing the defeat of German forces in Sicily in August, the 1st Division was then evacuated to England for training in preparation for the Normandy invasion.\n\nDawson landed with his company at the Easy Red sector of Omaha beach early in the morning on June 6, 1944. After being pinned down on the beach, Dawson led his men up a narrow ravine, now known as \"Dawson's draw,\" from the beach to the top of the bluff on which the American cemetery now sits. He personally cleared a German machine gun nest with an accurate throw of a grenade. He is known as one of the first officers to reach the top of the bluff overlooking the beach. Once at the top, he led his men to his objective at Colleville-sur-Mer, where he was wounded on the afternoon of June 6. For his actions that day he was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross (United States), and at the 50th anniversary of the D-Day landings, Dawson was selected by the Army to speak at the ceremonies as the representative of the troops who landed that day.\n\nAfter recuperating from his wounds, Dawson rejoined his unit in France, and after the break out at St. Lo, he led his company in the advance across France and into Belgium, engaging in a number of actions against the Germans. From Belgium, the 1st Division was engaged in the battle at Aachen, Germany in September and October 1944. Dawson's G Company (along with I Company) held off German counterattacks for thirty-nine days during the battle for Aachen on, what was called in contemporary papers and is still called in U.S. Army history, \"Dawson's Ridge.\" This ridge sat astride the main route that for the German attempts to relieve the city of Aachen, which Hitler had ordered to be defended at all costs. G Company lost 117 out of 139 men during the battle for \"Dawson's Ridge.\" For this action, Dawson's command was honored with the Presidential Unit Citation.\n\nDawson was hospitalized after the lengthy action at Aachen, capping his extended combat experience in North Africa, Sicily, and France spanning nearly two years. After recuperation at hospitals in France and the U.S., Dawson was promoted to major and was reassigned to the OSS under the command of General Donovan, serving for the remainder of the U.S. action in Europe during 1945 until the German surrender.\n\nDawson was promoted to lieutenant colonel, and after leaving active duty in the Army in 1945 he served for a number of years in the Army reserves. He returned to Corpus Christi, where he continued his career as a geologist, working to develop oil and gas reserves in that region until just before his death.\n\nDawson married Melba Bruno in 1946. They raised two children, Roslyn and Diane. The Dawson family lived in Corpus Christi, Texas, and in Denver, Colorado. In civilian life he was a geologist in the oil industry. An elementary school in Corpus Christi, Texas is named in his honor.\n\nIn June 1994, Dawson revisited Normandy to introduce President Bill Clinton at ceremonies marking the 50th anniversary of the invasion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096287", "title": "Timothy Taylor Brewery", "text": "Timothy Taylor Brewery\n\nTimothy Taylor's is a family-owned regional brewery founded in 1858 by Timothy Taylor. Originally based in Cook Lane, Keighley, West Yorkshire, England. Timothy Taylor's moved to larger premises in 1863 at Knowle Spring in Keighley, where they remain.\n\nThe brewery is still family owned and was family run until 2014, when the Chief Executive Charles Dent retired and became Chairman.\n\nTimothy Taylor's best known ale is \"Landlord\", a pale ale, 4.3% abv when cask conditioned, and 4.1% when sold filtered in the bottle. It was created for miners, to compete against local rival Barnsley Bitter. Landlord was four times Champion Beer of Britain at the Great British Beer Festival. The brand attracted media attention in 2003 when Madonna said in an interview with Jonathan Ross that it was her favourite beer. Since then the draught beer has become more widely available throughout the country and \"Landlord\" is also being exported in bottles.\n\n\"Landlord\" is available in the brewery's own tied pubs, and is often available as a guest ale in other pubs, especially those in Yorkshire. Bottled \"Landlord\" is available in Tesco, Waitrose, Morrisons and several other supermarkets, as well as from the brewery's webshop.\n\nTimothy Taylor's \"Best Bitter\" was renamed \"Boltmaker\" in 2012 to better distinguish it from their ale \"Golden Best\". \"Boltmaker\" won Gold in the Bitter category at the Great British Beer Festival in 2014 and was also crowned their Champion Beer of Britain 2014.\n\n\"Boltmaker\" is a Yorkshire Bitter which is 4% when cask conditioned or 4.2% when sold filtered in the bottle. It was originally bottled exclusively for Tesco shortly before winning Champion Beer of Britain 2014. In late 2015 bottled \"Boltmaker\" became available in other supermarkets such as Waitrose.\n\nA brand new addition to the Timothy Taylor's range, a blonde beer \"Knowle Spring Blonde\", will be available from March 2017. The 4.2% easy-drinking yet complex blonde beer is the brewery's first addition to their core range since 1952.\n\nA variety of other ales, such as \"Golden Best\", \"Dark Mild\" and \"Ram Tam\" (renamed \"Landlord Dark\" in 2019) may be found in Timothy Taylor's houses. A new French style blonde ale \"Le Champion\" was brewed specially to celebrate the 2014 Tour de France Grand Depart in Leeds. With the advent of the Tour de Yorkshire cycling event in 2015, \"Le Champion\" was brewed again in April 2015 and is being brewed again in March 2016.\n\nTimothy Taylor's also produce an occasional special bottled ale called \"Havercake Ale\".\n\nIn the past Timothy Taylor's produced another bottled ale called \"Northerner\", bearing the advertising slogan, \"For Men of the North\". This slogan has been reinvented as \"Originally brewed for men of the north, now loved by everyone\" and is borne on the back of the wagons.\n\nThe brewery is supplied with water from an artesian well (Knowle Spring).\n\nOnly whole hops are used for brewing.\n\nThe yeast strain originally came from the Oldham Brewery.\n\n80 percent of production is for cask conditioned products. Bottling is contracted to Robinsons Brewery.\n\nTimothy Taylor's currently has 19 of its own tied pubs in Bingley, Cononley, Fence near Colne, Haworth, Grassington, Halifax, Keighley, Leeds, Malsis near Cross Hills, Oakworth, Oxenhope, Ripon, Skipton, Thornton and Wadsworth near Hebden Bridge.\n\nThese are the \"Albert Hotel\" in Keighley, the \"Boltmakers Arms\" in Keighley, the \"Brown Cow\" in Bingley, the \"Burlington Arms\" in Keighley, the \"Crossroads Inn\" in Halifax, the \"Devonshire Hotel\" in Grassington, the \"Dog & Gun\" in Malsis, the \"Dog & Gun\" in Oxenhope, the \"Fleece Inn\" in Haworth, the \"Grouse Inn\" in Oldfield, the \"Hare & Hounds\" in Wadsworth, the \"Lord Rodney\" in Keighley, the \"New Inn\" in Cononley, the \"Royal Oak\" in Keighley, the \"Royal Oak\" in Ripon, the \"Town Hall Tavern\" in central Leeds, the \"White Horse\" in Thornton, the \"White Swan\" in Fence and the \"Woolly Sheep\" in Skipton. All of these pubs are run by tenants, except for the \"Lord Rodney\" in Keighley and the \"Woolly Sheep\" in Skipton, which are run by Timothy Taylor's itself.\n\nIn 2015, Timothy Taylor's bought \"The Devonshire Hotel\" in Grassington and it underwent a complete refurbishment, reopening in December 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096307", "title": "United States Bicycling Hall of Fame", "text": "United States Bicycling Hall of Fame\n\nThe United States Bicycling Hall of Fame, located in Davis, California, is a private 501c3 non-profit \norganization formed to preserve and promote the sport of cycling. The organization was founded in 1986 in Somerville, New Jersey and has inducted cyclists who have \"achieved tremendous success in racing or have enhanced the sport\" since 1987. It has operated a museum in Davis since 2009.\n\nThe hall was formerly located in Somerville, New Jersey. The Hall announced in April 2009 that it would move to Davis. The grand opening of the new downtown Davis facility was on April 24, 2010. The hall of fame joined a collection of historic bicycles that were already located in Davis. Davis has an extensive bicycling infrastructure, culture and legacy. It replaced the 3rd and B teens center, which was a slightly controversial move among the teenage population of Davis, but many of its functions, such as dances, were moved to the Veteran's Memorial Center.\n\nThe Hall of Fame is located on the top floor of the building and includes the bicycles of Major Taylor and Frank Louis Kramer as well as a championship sash and medals from Frank Kramer.\n\nThe main floor of the museum includes topical exhibits. In 2010, there was an exhibit about the Tour of California and a display about Greg LeMond.\n\nThe basement includes an extensive display of historic bicycles that includes Draisine and Velocipede models. The display also includes landmark bicycles from the 1950s through the present that illustrate the rapid recent evolution of the bicycle.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096315", "title": "Douglas Abbott", "text": "Douglas Abbott\n\nDouglas Charles Abbott, (May 29, 1899 – March 15, 1987) was a Canadian Member of Parliament, federal Cabinet Minister, and justice of the Supreme Court of Canada. Abbott's appointment directly from the Cabinet of Canada as Finance Minister to the Supreme Court is considered one of the most controversial in the Supreme Court's history.\n\nAbbott was born in Lennoxville, Quebec (now Sherbrooke, Quebec). He attended Bishop's University, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts. He then attended McGill Law School, but interrupted his studies to sign up for service overseas, in 1916. Returning from the Great War, he completed his legal studies, earning his Bachelor of Civil Law. He then went to France to attend the Université de Dijon. Returning to Canada, he was called to the Barreau du Québec in 1921 and practised law in Montreal with the firm of Fleet, Phelan, Fleet & Le Mesurier.\n\nAbbott successfully stood for election to the House of Commons in 1940, and remained a member of the House for fourteen years. A member of the Liberal Party of Canada, Abbott served as both Minister of National Defence (1945-46) and Minister of Finance (1946-54).\n\nHe was appointed to the Supreme Court of Canada on July 1, 1954 and served as Puisne Justice until December 23, 1973.\n\nAbbott was appointed to the court directly from the Liberal Party of Canada's Cabinet, where he had served the previous 7 years as Finance Minister. The appointment is considered one of the most controversial in the history of the Supreme Court. It was the first appointment directly from cabinet since the 1911 appointment of Louis-Philippe Brodeur. As of , Abbott was the last Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada appointed directly to the Court from the Cabinet of Canada, and the last Justice to have held elected office prior to his appointment.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096320", "title": "William Thom (poet)", "text": "William Thom (poet)\n\nWilliam Thom (1788 - 29 February 1848) was a Scottish poet who wrote in the Scots language. He was author of \"The Mitherless Bairn\" and other works. He was known as the 'Inverury' Poet.\n\nThom was a native of Aberdeen, where he worked as a hand-loom weaver, enduring considerable hardship and poverty.\n\nHe was born in Sinclair's Close, Justice Port, Aberdeen in 1799 or 1800, and died in Dundee on 29 February 1848. According to the death record on the site scotlandspeople.gov.uk, William Thom died of \"Consumption\" on 28 February 1848 in the city of Dundee, Aberdeen county, Scotland, and interred on 3 March.\n\nHis most notable work is \"Blind Boy's Pranks\". In 1841 he published \"Rhymes and Recollections of a Handloom Weaver\".\n\nA biography of William Thom appears in the book, \"James Hogg\" by Sir George Douglas (Edinburgh: Oliphant, Anderson & Ferrier, 1899) in the \"Famous Scots Series\".\n\nWilliam Thom's remains are interred at Western Cemetery, Dundee, where a memorial monument was erected by admirers of the poet.\n"}
{"id": "2096327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096327", "title": "William Bratton", "text": "William Bratton\n\nWilliam Joseph Bratton CBE (born October 6, 1947) is an American law enforcement officer and businessman who served two terms as the New York City Police Commissioner (1994–1996 and 2014–2016). He previously served as the Commissioner of the Boston Police Department (BPD) (1993–1994) and Chief of the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) (2002–2009).\n\nBratton began his police career at the Boston Police Department before becoming Police Commissioner in New York City, where his quality-of-life policy has been credited with reducing petty and violent crime. He was recruited to lead the Los Angeles Police Department in 2002 at a time when the LAPD was struggling to rebuild trust after the previous decade's Rodney King videotaped beating, Los Angeles riots, O.J. Simpson murder case's perjury by former LAPD detective Mark Furhman and Rampart scandal, and presided over an era of reform and crime reduction. Bratton has served as an advisor on policing in several roles, including advising the British government. In January 2014, Bratton returned to the post of Police Commissioner in New York City, and served until September 2016.\n\nBratton's policing style is influenced by the broken windows theory, a criminological theory of the norm-setting and signalling effect of urban disorder and vandalism on additional crime and anti-social behavior. He advocates having an ethnically diverse police force representative of the population, tackling police corruption, being tough on gangs and having a strict no-tolerance of anti-social behavior.\n\nBratton is from the Dorchester neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts. He attended Boston Technical High School, graduating in 1965. From there, he served in the Military Police Corps of the United States Army during the Vietnam War.\n\nBratton returned to Boston in 1970 to start a police career in the Boston Police Department, and was sworn in as an officer in October 1970. He was promoted to sergeant in July 1975 and to lieutenant in March 1978. While serving as a Boston Police Officer, Bratton earned a Bachelor of Science in Public Service/Public Administration in 1975 from Boston State College (later absorbed by the University of Massachusetts-Boston).\n\nIn October 1980, at the age of 32 and ten years after his appointment to the BPD, Bratton was named as the youngest-ever Executive Superintendent of the Boston Police, the department's second highest post. He was dismissed as executive superintendent after he told a journalist that his goal was to be the Police Commissioner. He was reassigned to the position of Inspector of Bureaus, a sinecure which was responsible for liaison with minority and LGBTQ communities. He was later brought back into police headquarters to handle labor relations and 9-1-1 related issues.\n\nBetween 1983 and 1986 Bratton was Chief of Police for the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, following which he became Superintendent of Boston's Metropolitan District Commission Police. Bratton was Superintendent in Chief of the Boston Police Department from 1992 until 1993, then he became that city's 34th Police Commissioner. He holds the Department's highest award for valor.\n\nBratton became the chief of the New York City Transit Police in 1990. In 1994, Bratton was appointed the 38th Commissioner of the New York City Police Department (NYPD) by Mayor Rudy Giuliani. He cooperated with Giuliani in putting the controversial broken windows theory into practice. He introduced the CompStat system of tracking crimes in New York City. Critics have argued that CompStat has created perverse incentives for officers to allow crimes to go unreported, and has encouraged police brutality, citing that complaints by citizens that involved incidents where no arrest was made or summons was issued more than doubled during the Giuliani administration.\n\nBratton resigned in 1996, while under investigation by the Corporation Counsel for the propriety of a book deal that he signed while in office as well as accepting multiple unauthorized trips from corporations and individuals. These offenses were generally considered minor. Front and center were alleged personal conflicts with Giuliani, partly due to Giuliani's opposition to some of Bratton's reforms and partly due to Giuliani's belief that Bratton was getting more credit for the reduction in crime than Giuliani.\n\nThe experiences of Bratton and New York Deputy Police Commissioner Jack Maple were used as the inspiration of the television series \"The District\".\n\nBratton worked as a private consultant with Kroll Associates, also known as LAPD's Independent Monitor, until his appointment by the Mayor of Los Angeles James Hahn as the LAPD's 54th Chief of Police in October 2002. Bratton was one of three candidates recommended to Hahn by the Los Angeles Police Commission under Commission President Rick J. Caruso. Under Bratton's tenure, crime within the city dropped for six consecutive years.\n\nOn June 19, 2007, the Los Angeles Police Commission reappointed Bratton to a second five-year term, the first reappointment of an LAPD chief in almost twenty years.\n\nBratton has been criticized for his extensive travel; in 2005, he was out of town for a full third of the year on both official and personal business.\n\nIn March 2009, Councilman Herb Wesson proposed an amendment to the City Charter, allowing Bratton to serve a third consecutive term as Police Chief.\n\nOn September 11, 2009, he was awarded with the honorary title of Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth II \"in recognition of his work to promote cooperation between US and UK police throughout his distinguished career\".\n\nOn August 12, 2011, Bratton said he was in talks with the British government to become an adviser on controlling the violence that had affected London the prior week. He said he received a phone call from U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, and that he would continue speaking with British officials to formalize an agreement. Bratton was approached by British Prime Minister David Cameron to become the new Metropolitan Police Commissioner in July 2011, but Theresa May and the Home Office said that the commissioner was required be a British citizen. Bratton instead was offered an advisor role to the British government, which he accepted in August 2011.\n\nOn December 27, 2012, he was hired as a consultant for the city of Oakland, California.\n\nOn December 5, 2013, New York City mayor-elect Bill de Blasio named Bratton as New York City's new Police Commissioner to replace Raymond Kelly. \"The New York Times\" reported that at Bratton's swearing in on January 2, 2014, the new Police Commissioner praised his predecessor Raymond Kelly, but also signaled his intention to strike a more conciliatory tone with ordinary New Yorkers who had become disillusioned with policing in the city: \"We will all work hard to identify why is it that so many in this city do not feel good about this department that has done so much to make them safe – what has it been about our activities that have made so many alienated?\" He stepped down in 2016.\n\nBratton co-founded and served as CEO of Bratton Technologies, a venture backed company that operates BlueLine, a global law enforcement professional network modeled after LinkedIn.\n\nAfter stepping down from his post in Los Angeles, in 2009, he moved back to New York City to take a position with private international security firm Altegrity Risk International. He became the chairman of Kroll, a corporate investigations and risk consulting firm based in New York City on September 16, 2010. In November 9, 2012, Bratton stepped down as Chairman and was retained by Kroll as a Senior Adviser.\n\nIn 2010 he was sworn in as a new member of the Homeland Security Advisory Council.\n\nBratton joined Crest Advisory on November 5, 2012, a company that advises prospective police and crime commissioners (PCCs), criminal justice agencies and the security sector.\n\nIn May 2018, Bratton was appointed to the Board of Directors for Mission Ready Services, a public company who specializes in equipping military personnel, first responders and law enforcement agencies with personal protective equipment.\n\nBratton is a key proponent of \"broken windows\" policing. Some media sources have described his policy as \"zero tolerance\" policing, but Bratton denies this. Bratton has called \"zero tolerance\" a \"troublesome\" term. Bratton and George L. Kelling wrote a joint essay in which they outlined a difference between the two:\n\nThe central theory behind broken windows policing is that low-level crime and disorder creates an environment that encourages more serious crimes. Bratton and Kelling also argue that low-level disorder is often a greater worry to residents than major crimes, and that different ethnic groups have similar ideas as to what \"disorder\" is. He and Kelling advocate both effective enforcement and lenient punishment for minor crimes. Citing fare evasion as an example, they argue that the police should attempt to catch fare evaders, and that the vast majority should be summoned to court rather than arrested and given a punishment other than jail. The goal is to deter minor offenders from committing more serious crimes in the future and reduce the prison population in the long run.\n\nBratton also supports community policing, describing it as being related to broken windows policing. He and Kelling stress the need for the police to collaborate with other government agencies and a variety of community groups, writing that \"many of the challenges to public order confronting cities and communities cannot be solved by simple police action.\"\n\nBratton has stated that racial tensions and distrust of the police are hindrances to reducing crime. Bratton's solution in Los Angeles and New York City was to make police forces more ethnically diverse and \"reflective of the ethnic make-up of their cities\". Bratton argues that stop-and-frisk is a useful tool that should be used in moderation. Use of stop-and-frisk was increased during his first term as NYPD Commissioner and dramatically reduced during his second term. Bratton supported reducing it on the grounds that it was causing tension between the police and minority groups and that it was less needed in an era of lower crime.\n\nIn 1998, Random House published his memoir \"Turnaround: How America's Top Cop Reversed the Crime Epidemic\", written with co-author Peter Knobler. It was named a \"New York Times\" Notable Book of the Year.\n\nBratton holds a Bachelor of Science in Law Enforcement from the University of Massachusetts Boston and was a research fellow at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University.\n\nBratton has been married four times. He is currently married to attorney and TruTV analyst Rikki Klieman, and has one son, David, from a prior marriage. Bratton was previously married to attorney and Boston Police spokeswoman and newscaster Cheryl Fiandaca.\n\nBratton addressed the Roger Williams University graduating class at the May 22, 2010 commencement ceremony and also received an honorary degree during the ceremony. He also received an honorary degree from New York Institute of Technology.\n\nAfter more than 40 years in policing, Bill Bratton retired in 2016. As of 2018, he is currently the Executive Chairman of Teneo Risk Holdings and is on the Board of Directors for public company Mission Ready Solutions. Bratton is also a Roman Catholic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096332", "title": "Here Comes the Neighborhood", "text": "Here Comes the Neighborhood\n\n\"Here Comes the Neighborhood\" is the twelfth episode of the fifth season of the animated television series \"South Park\", and the 77th episode of the series overall. \"Here Comes the Neighborhood\" originally aired in the United States on November 28, 2001 on Comedy Central. The title is a play on the expression \"There goes the neighborhood\".\n\nIn the episode, a class war ensues in South Park when it becomes a hot spot for rich celebrities. Meanwhile, Token feels rejected by his friends and goes to live with lions.\n\nThe children at South Park Elementary are presenting science projects. Token gets a \"check plus\" for presenting a computer model of predicted weather conditions, while Cartman is angry for receiving a \"check minus\" on his hastily constructed project and points out to the class Token's wealth in his rage, notably his clothes. Token, the token black child of South Park, happens to be the richest kid in town, and becomes upset when he can find no other kids in the school he can relate to. He tries to get himself and his family to act poor. They shop at J-Mart, where the rest of the families buy their clothes, but when he comes to Stan's house with the other boys and brings a DVD of \"The Lion King\" instead of a video tape–Token's family being the only people in town with a DVD player–the boys realize that he has not changed.\n\nDespondent at his social estrangement, Token decides to arrange for dozens of rich people (who all happen to be black) such as Will Smith and Snoop Dogg to move into South Park, which leads to Mr. Garrison complaining about the \"richers\" in the town, which in turn leads to ire among the other, less affluent members of the community (who all happen to be white). However, Token discovers that the rich kids (who are even richer than him) are as different from him as he is from the poorer kids in town. All the rich kids play polo, buy shops and speak with exaggerated English accents. Token feels so much like an outcast that he goes to live with lions in the South Park Zoo after the rich kids taunt him to do it, where Aslan is the leader of the pack.\n\nThe situation between the rich and poor residents of town continues as the gentrification escalates. Led by Mr. Garrison, the townsfolk enact a series of measures. They decide to plant a lower case \"t\" cross for \"time to leave\" in the garden of some of the rich residents, setting it on fire to emphasize their point. They mock the rich residents by insisting they sit at the front of buses claiming it to be the \"first class\" section. They refuse to let them drink in the bars or eat in the restaurants. In response, the rich residents organise a Million Millionaire March by paying poor black residents such as Chef.\n\nToken eventually decides he does not want to live with lions anymore (because they only play practical jokes) and leaves the lair. However, he finds the boys and discovers that the poor kids in town who made fun of him being rich didn't dislike him. They tell him that they only picked on him because they all pick on each other on a regular basis. They decide to stop ripping on him for his money, and instead mock him for his reaction to the previous insults as being a \"pussy\".\n\nEventually, the townsfolk dress as ghosts (resembling Ku Klux Klan robes), resulting in the rich people responding with terror and fleeing the town. The poor townsfolk gather around their abandoned houses. Mr. Garrison suggests that by selling the empty houses the townsfolk can become rich. Jimbo and Randy tell him that if they do they will become the very thing they hate. Garrison shrugs, \"Well, yeah, but at least I got rid of all those damn ni-\", and the episode cuts to credits before he can complete the word.\n\nOn the commentary, Trey Parker and Matt Stone describe the episode as a world where racism doesn't exist but the last word spoils it by saying something that is fully racist in which they wanted to begin the next episode with Garrison saying \"ggers.\" \n\n\"Here Comes the Neighborhood\", along with the fourteen other episodes from \"South Park: the Complete Fifth Season\", were released on a three-disc DVD set in the United States on February 22, 2005. The set includes brief audio commentaries by Parker and Stone for each episode.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096333", "title": "Cooperative Institute for Arctic Research", "text": "Cooperative Institute for Arctic Research\n\n(CIFAR) was established through a Memorandum of Understanding between NOAA and the University of Alaska. CIFAR is exclusively concerned with Arctic research. They work closely with NOAA's Arctic Research Office and the Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory (PMEL). Partnerships with NOAA also include the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), the National Ocean Service (NOS), and an emerging relationship with the National Weather Service.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096349", "title": "Bill Beutel", "text": "Bill Beutel\n\nWilliam Charles Beutel (December 12, 1930 – March 18, 2006) was an American television reporter, journalist and anchor. He was best known for working over four decades with the American Broadcasting Company, spending much of that time anchoring newscasts for WABC-TV in New York City. He also was an ABC radio network newscaster before ABC Radio's split into 4 networks on January 1, 1968. After the split he reported on the American Contemporary Network as did his Eyewitness partner Roger Grimsby.\n\nAfter a stint in the Army, Beutel graduated from Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire and then studied law at the University of Michigan Law School, though he left Michigan without obtaining his law degree. While Beutel was in law school, he wrote Edward R. Murrow a letter saying, \"I very much wanted to be a radio journalist.\" Beutel received a letter back advising him to go to the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. His first radio job was in Cleveland before moving to CBS Radio in New York City in 1957.\n\nBeutel moved to ABC on October 22, 1962 as a reporter with ABC News and as anchor at the network's New York flagship, WABC-TV. WABC-TV built on its three-year ratings success with newscast \"Report to New York\" anchored by Scott Vincent, and expanded the format to a one-hour 6:00 p.m. newscast called \"The Big News\". That expansion was not without risk however, and the new format struggled in the ratings. Among the hundreds of famous personages who were interviewed by Beutel was the African American Muslim and black nationalist leader Malcolm X. Beutel left his WABC duties for two years in April 1968 to join ABC News full-time as their London bureau chief.\n\nIn 1970, he got a call from Al Primo, who had taken over as news director at WABC after Beutel left. Primo had brought the \"Eyewitness News\" format, in which the reporters directly presented their stories, along with him from KYW-TV in Philadelphia. He wanted Beutel to return to New York as co-anchor alongside Roger Grimsby, whom Primo hired away from KGO-TV to serve as WABC-TV's main anchor. Primo remembered Beutel's solo anchor run in the early 1960s. Since Grimsby had already established a powerful presence after just two years in New York, Primo wanted a co-anchor \"who could be his own man.\" Beutel assured Primo he could be. \n\nBeutel rejoined WABC-TV on September 28, 1970 as Grimsby's co-anchor on \"Eyewitness News\". The two worked together for 16 years, most of which was spent going back and forth with WCBS-TV for first place in the New York ratings. On January 6, 1975, Beutel was reassigned by ABC News and became the co-host (along with Stephanie Edwards) of a new morning show called \"AM America\". This show, ABC's first attempt at a morning news program to compete with NBC's \"Today\" and CBS's combination of network news and \"Captain Kangaroo\", lasted only ten months on the air. \"AM America\" was replaced on November 3, 1975 by \"Good Morning America\", originally anchored by David Hartman and Nancy Dussault. Beutel returned to WABC-TV and \"Eyewitness News\", though he maintained a presence on the network as the anchor of its 15-minute late newscasts on Saturday and Sunday nights through the late 1970s.\n\nThe reformed Grimsby-Beutel team kept \"Eyewitness News\" on top of the ratings through the middle 1980s, when it briefly fell to last place. Though the ratings drop was mostly associated with ABC-TV's poor primetime performance during that time, it led to Grimsby's firing in 1986. However, within a year, WABC-TV had shot back to first place and has been the ratings leader in New York ever since. After Grimsby's firing, Beutel was joined at 6:00 p.m. by Kaity Tong and John Johnson in a rotating anchor arrangement and was permanently joined by Johnson beginning in 1988. In 1990 Beutel began a long stint anchoring the 6 p.m. news alone, which ended when his 11 p.m. co-anchor Diana Williams joined him in 1999. Beutel returned to the 11 p.m. \"Eyewitness News\" in 1989 after Ernie Anastos left to join WCBS and was originally paired with then-longtime co-anchor Kaity Tong. After Tong left WABC in 1991 Beutel anchored with Susan Roesgen for one year, but the pairing was unsuccessful and in 1992 Roesgen was replaced by Diana Williams. \n\nBeutel left the 11:00 p.m. newscast in 1999 and was replaced by ABC News correspondent Bill Ritter. In 2001 Ritter also replaced Beutel as the 6 p.m. anchor, and after that Beutel spent the final two years of his career serving as a senior correspondent and occasional commentator. In the latter role he was given a segment called \"Final Thought\", which aired at the end of the 6 p.m. \"Eyewitness News\" where Beutel gave a brief commentary on an issue of the day, usually a brief summary of the top stories/headlines of the newscast in one minute or less. \n\nBeutel retired from television in February 2003, having served as an anchor at WABC-TV for a total of 37 years—giving him the longest run in New York television history until he was surpassed by Rafael Pineda, who has been anchor at Spanish-language station WXTV since 1972. Beutel remained the longest-serving anchor at an English-language station in New York City until April 2011, when he was surpassed by WNBC's Chuck Scarborough. His trademark sign off was \"Good luck, be well.\"\n\nBeutel was married four times. His first marriage was to Gail Wilder, which lasted twenty years and gave Beutel his four children, son Peter and daughters Robin, Colby, and Heather. He married actress Lynn Deerfield, twenty years his junior, in 1975 but the marriage was brief, as was Beutel's third marriage in 1977 which only lasted four months. In 1980 Beutel married Adair Atwell, a former tobacco industry lobbyist.\n\nFollowing his retirement, Beutel moved to North Carolina with his wife. A short while later, he was found to have a degenerative brain condition that was eventually diagnosed as Lewy body dementia. The condition progressed as Beutel aged and it eventually claimed his life on March 19, 2006 at the age of 75.\n\nBeutel was survived by his wife Adair, as well as his former wives, and his four children from his first marriage; he has since been joined in death by his son Peter, a businessman and energy sector analyst who died of a heart attack in March 2012, and his second wife Lynn Deerfield, who died in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096358", "title": "Audley Rural", "text": "Audley Rural\n\nAudley Rural is a parish of Staffordshire, England, located four miles to the north-west of the town of Newcastle-under-Lyme. It is predominantly a rural area, of which Audley is the centre. Other settlements are Alsagers Bank, Bignall End, Halmer End, Miles Green, Scot Hay and Wood Lane, and the outlying hamlets of Dunkirk, Mill End, Shraley Brook, Eardley End, Coopers Green, Butters Green and Crackley Gates. The population of this parish at the 2011 census was 8,437.\n\nThe parish elects councillors to Newcastle Borough Council for the Audley and Bignall End ward, and, with Betley and Balterley parishes, for the Halmerend ward.\n\nThe parish was created in 1932 by a split of the previous Audley parish, much of which went to form the Talke parish.\n\nNearby landmark Bignall Hill provides views south to Cannock Chase and the city of Stoke-on-Trent; north across the Cheshire Plains to Jodrell Bank radio telescope; east to Mow Cop Castle and the Peak District; and west to the mountains of North Wales and Snowdonia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096368", "title": "List of companies of Haiti", "text": "List of companies of Haiti\n\nHaiti is a country located on the island of Hispaniola in the Greater Antilles archipelago of the Caribbean Sea. Haiti's purchasing power parity GDP fell 8% in 2010 (from US$12.15 billion to US$11.18 billion) and the GDP per capita remained unchanged at PPP US$1,200. Despite having a viable tourist industry, They may have converted into a public company (like listed with the Haitian Stock Exchange), or have seen a decline in sales, or at worst gone into an insolvency procedure, been sold, broken up, or liquidated. Haiti is one of the world's poorest countries and the poorest in the Americas region, with poverty, corruption, poor infrastructure, lack of health care and lack of education cited as the main sources. The economy receded due to the 2010 earthquake and subsequent outbreak of Cholera. Haiti ranked 145 of 182 countries in the 2010 United Nations Human Development Index, with 57.3% of the population being deprived in at least three of the HDI's poverty measures.\n\nFor further information on the types of business entities in this country and their abbreviations, see \"Business entities in Haiti\".\n\nThis list includes notable companies with primary headquarters located in the country. The industry and sector follow the Industry Classification Benchmark taxonomy. Organizations which have ceased operations are included and noted as defunct.\n"}
{"id": "2096373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096373", "title": "Civil Procedure Rules", "text": "Civil Procedure Rules\n\nThe Civil Procedure Rules (CPR) are the rules of civil procedure used by the Court of Appeal, High Court of Justice, and County Courts in civil cases in England and Wales. They apply to all cases commenced after 26 April 1999, and largely replace the Rules of the Supreme Court and the County Court Rules.\n\nThe CPR were designed to improve access to justice by making legal proceedings cheaper, quicker, and easier to understand for non-lawyers. As a consequence of this, many archaic legal terms were replaced with \"plain English\" equivalents, such as \"claimant\" for \"plaintiff\" and \"witness summons\" for \"subpoena\".\n\nUnlike the previous rules of civil procedure, the CPR commence with a statement of their “Overriding Objective”, both to aid in the application of specific provisions and to guide behaviour where no specific rule applies.\n\nIn 1994, the Lord Chancellor instructed the then Master of the Rolls, Lord Woolf, to report on options to consolidate the existing rules of civil procedure.\nOn 26 July 1996, Lord Woolf published his \"Access to Justice Report 1996\" in which he \"...identified a number of principles the civil justice system should meet to ensure access to justice. The system should –\n\nLord Woolf listed two of the requirements of case management as \"...fixing timetables for the parties to take particular steps in the case; and limiting disclosure and expert evidence\".\n\nThe second thread of the report was to control the cost of litigation, both in time and money, by focusing on key issues rather than every possible issue and limiting the amount of work that has to be done on the case.\n\nThe report was accompanied by draft rules of practice designed to implement Lord Woolf's proposals. These rules: granted wide management powers to the court proposed that cases be allocated to one of three tracks depending on their nature, limiting or requiring specific actions; and introduced the concept of proportionality to the costs regime.\n\nThe Civil Procedure Act 1997 (c. 12) was enacted on 27 February 1997. It conferred the power to make civil procedure rules. It also established the Civil Justice Council, a body composed of members of the judiciary, members of the legal professions and civil servants, and charged with reviewing the civil justice system.\n\nThe Civil Procedure Rules 1998 (SI 1998/3132) were made on 10 December 1998 and came into force on 26 April 1999. The draft rules of practice formed their core.\n\nImplemented as a result of reforms suggested by Lord Woolf and his committee, one of the revelations of the rules is the “overriding objective” embodied in Part 1 of the Rules, which states:\n\nThe rules are written to be intelligible not just to lawyers but to litigants in person also.\n\nClaims with a value of not more than £10,000 (the amount increased on 1 April 2013) are usually allocated to the Small Claims Track unless: the amount claimed for pain, suffering, and loss of amenity is more than £1,000.00.; or the cost of the repairs or other work to residential premises claimed against the landlord by a tenant is estimated to be more than £1,000 - whether or not they are also seeking another remedy - or the financial value of any claim in addition to those repairs is more than £1,000.\n\nA claim for a remedy for harassment or unlawful eviction relating to residential premises will not be allocated to the Small Claims Track even if it meets the financial limits.\n\nClaims with a financial value of no more than £25,000 (£15,000 for claims issued before 6 April 2009), for which the Small Claims Track is not the normal track are usually allocated to the Fast Track unless: the trial is likely to last for more than one day; oral expert evidence at trial will be in more than two fields; or there will be more than one expert per party in each field.\n\nAny case not allocated to either the Small Claims- or the Fast Track is allocated to the Multi Track.\n\nTo support the ethos of narrowing the issues prior to the use of proceedings and encapsulate best practice, the CPR introduced “pre-action protocols”. They are given force by \"Practice Direction – Protocols\"\n\nPre-action protocols outline the steps that parties should take in particular types of dispute to seek information from, and to provide information to, each other prior to making a legal claim.\n\nPre-action protocols, which entails setting out the claim in full to the defendant in an attempt to negotiate a settlement. The emphasis is placed on co-operation to identify the main issues. Failure to co-operate may lead cost penalties, regardless of the eventual outcomes of the case.\n\nParagraph 1 of the Practice Direction defines the purpose of pre-action protocols as:\n\nParagraph 2 indicates that the Court may add terms to any order if it feels a party has breached a protocol. These will place parties in the same position as if the breach had not occurred (or as close as possible).\n\nThe court may, amongst other remedies, order that the party in breach:\n\nFor instance, where a party commences proceedings prior to supplying important information to the other party(s) then the Court might disallow interest for the period prior to the information being provided.\n\nIn addition, the protocol might provide grounds to show a party had or had not behaved so unreasonably as to merit penalty under another Rule (for instance CPR 44.3).\n\nWhere no protocol has been published Paragraph 4 states that parties should conform to CPR 1 and the Overriding Objective.\n\nIt also sets out what would normally be considered reasonable behaviour prior to issue.\n\nWhere a case has been commenced prior to the protocol coming into force, but after publication the protocol is not binding. However, the degree to which a party has attempted to follow it anyway might be persuasive.\n\nSection 2 of the CPA requires that the CPR are made by a committee called the Civil Procedure Rule Committee. Members of the committee consist of:\n\n\n\n\nThe Lord Chancellor's appointments are made in consultation with the Lord Chief Justice and all authorised bodies which have members who are eligible for appointment.\n\nRules must be approved by at least eight members of the Committee, and submitted to the Lord Chancellor who may allow or disallow them. Where he decides to disallow, he must express his reasons for doing so in writing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096381", "title": "The Best of Sugar Ray", "text": "The Best of Sugar Ray\n\nThe Best of Sugar Ray is a 2005 Sugar Ray greatest hits album, released by Warner Bros. Records, consisting of 12 previous hits and 3 new recordings. Tracks 1, 9, and 14 are new tracks. Tracks 7 and 10 are from \"Lemonade and Brownies\", Tracks 3 and 12 are from \"Floored\", Tracks 4, 6 and 8 are from \"\", Tracks 2, 5, and 11 are from \"Sugar Ray\", and Tracks 13 and 15 are from \"In the Pursuit of Leisure\". The 3 new songs are: \"Shot of Laughter\", a cover of Cyndi Lauper's \"Time After Time\", and a song written by a teenage Howard Stern, \"Psychedelic Bee\". \"Mr. Bartender\" is the only hit single absent from the album.\n\nThe international edition of the album substitutes a cover of Joe Walsh's \"Life's Been Good\" for \"Time after Time\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2096382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096382", "title": "Eddie Paynter", "text": "Eddie Paynter\n\nEdward Paynter (5 November 1901 – 5 February 1979) was an English cricketer: an attacking batsman and excellent fielder. His Test batting average of 59.23 is the seventh highest of all time, and second only to Herbert Sutcliffe amongst Englishmen; against Australia alone Paynter averaged an extraordinary 84.42.\n\nBorn in Oswaldtwistle, Lancashire, Paynter did not make his first-class debut for Lancashire County Cricket Club until the relatively advanced age of 24 in July 1926. He made a slow start to his career, however, not establishing himself as a first-team player until 1930 and only scoring his first century in July of the following year, making exactly 100 against Warwickshire in his 48th first-class match. He scored 102 against the touring New Zealanders in the very next game, and in August made his Test debut against the same opposition. However, the match was ruined by rain, with no play possible on the first two of the game's scheduled three days, and Paynter made just three in his only innings.\n\nPerhaps the most famous of his Test appearances came against Australia, on the \"Bodyline tour\" of 1932/33. At Brisbane Paynter was taken to hospital suffering from tonsillitis, yet with England in difficulty at 216/6 in reply to Australia's 340, came out to bat. After spending the night in hospital, he made his way to 83 and helped his team to an unlikely first-innings lead, and though he only fielded for a couple of hours, returned for the second innings and had the honour of hitting the winning runs – with a six off McCabe. Paynter averaged a fine 61.33 over his five innings on this tour.\n\nPaynter was then out of the England side for a time, but in 1937 his county form – 2,904 runs and a five-hour triple century against Sussex brought him a recall against New Zealand, as well as Wisden Cricketer of the Year recognition in the next year's Almanack. In 1938 Paynter had another outstanding series against Australia, averaging 101.75 and hitting 216 not out at Nottingham, at the time an England record for Ashes Tests in England. He also filled in very competently as wicket-keeper when Les Ames was injured at Lord's. Paynter was again very successful the following winter against South Africa, scoring three centuries and two fifties in eight innings, including 243 at Durban, to average 81.62.\n\nThe Second World War brought an effective end to Paynter's career, though he did play a few special and festival games after the war. His final first-class innings was 75 not out for a Commonwealth XI against the Bombay Governor's XI in 1950/51; he then stood for one season (1951) as a first-class umpire. He spent the rest of his working life stacking wool in a Yorkshire mill. He died at the age of 77 in Keighley, Yorkshire.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096406", "title": "M (Marvel Comics)", "text": "M (Marvel Comics)\n\nM (Monet Yvette Clarisse Maria Therese St. Croix) is a fictional superheroine, a mutant appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character appears in the \"X-Men\" family of books, and first appeared in \"Uncanny X-Men\" #316 (Sept 1994). Created by writer Scott Lobdell and artist Chris Bachalo, she originally was a member of the teenage mutant group Generation X (1994), and later X-Factor and X-Men. For a time, she was impersonated by her younger sisters, Nicole and Claudette. Monet is a Muslim superhero and has illustrated the struggle of accepting \"different\" people central to X-Men stories.\"\n\nMonet St. Croix was born in Sarajevo, Bosnia during a family ski trip and is the second child of the rich and eccentric Monégasque Cartier St. Croix and his Algerian wife, who himself was the son of the French aristocrat Louis St. Croix and his second wife (implied to be also be Algerian). She grew up as a pompous and spoiled rich girl as a result of being the favored child of her father and his prestigious position as the Monégasque Ambassador to France. She was also raised as a Muslim. Shortly after her mother’s mysterious death, her brother Marius, the vampiric mutant known as Emplate, was banished from the St. Croix home. He eventually returned after learning the dark arts and requested that Monet join him in conquering another dimension. She cruelly rejected his offer, and after finally having enough of his sister's ridicule, Marius transformed her into a red-skinned, untouchable mute creature whom he nicknamed Penance. Monet's younger sisters, Nicole and Claudette, heard the commotion and quickly went to her room. When they could not find Monet, they assumed that Marius had killed her. The twins then banished him to another dimension while Monet followed, believing it was her only way to revert to normal.\n\nAfraid their father would break down after the loss of his favorite child, the twin sisters decided to merge bodies and replicate Monet. This version of Monet would have been identical to the original if it were not for Claudette's autism which would sometimes take effect, leaving \"Monet\" in catatonic stupors. Subsequently while the twins were impersonating their sister, they were among the new generation of mutants captured by the techno-organic alien race known as the Phalanx.\n\nThe twins (still impersonating Monet) helped to battle the Phalanx until she and the other teenage mutants were rescued by Banshee and Emma Frost. The group soon formed the Generation X team with Sean and Emma acting as co-headmasters of the new school designed to train them in the use of their powers. Shortly after the school opens, Banshee, Synch, and Jubilee go to the airport to welcome new student Chamber. The twins remain at the school and are reunited with the Australian teleporter Gateway, who they are glad to see and address as \"Mentor\". However, Gateway's return serves to warn them of the return of their evil brother. The twins convince Gateway to teleport them, Husk, Skin, and Emma Frost to the airport, where Emplate has already managed to absorb the powers of Chamber and Banshee. Though the twins recognize Emplate and address him as such, he says he cannot determine their name (despite the aspect of his mutant power that grants him \"knowledge at a glance\" with mutants, including their name, and more or less allowing him to read their memories). In addition, Emplate knows for a fact they are not Monet, as the true Monet has been his prisoner and main source of sustenance for years.\n\nRather than face the full might of Generation X, Emplate decides to retreat. The twins try to stop him from fleeing, but are forced to stop telepathically by Emma, who saw Husk seriously wounded in the battle and desired to keep \"Monet\" from meeting a similar fate. The twins are furious at her interruption and warn her never to enter their mind again. Shortly after returning to the school, Gateway reappears on the front lawn, this time with the true Monet (having found her during the aforementioned battle, as Emplate returns to his hideout to find her gone), who is still trapped in the Penance body. Gateway utters a single word: \"Penance\", and this is assumed to be the unfortunate girl's name by the others.\n\nThe moment Penance wakes up, her overriding desire is to be free. She instinctively slashes through anything in her way with her razor-sharp claws to achieve this goal and escapes onto the school grounds. The twins immediately display both a detailed knowledge of Penance's plight (specifically her connection to her former captor, Emplate) far beyond even her teachers, as well as a curious reluctance to physically engage the girl. While the rest of the team scrambles to try and capture Penance by force, Chamber merely lets her come to him, sensing that their mutant powers have made them both monsters and kindred spirits. Penance calms down in his presence, bringing the crisis to a peaceful end.\n\nThe team soon becomes aware of Monet's reoccurring, temporary trances, where she \"spaces out\" and is typically unresponsive for several minutes at the least (due to Claudette's autism). Monet later mentions (to the reader) that this most often happens during moments of intense focus. Worse, as she is the only member of the team with actual super-strength, she proves completely unmovable until she emerges from the trances. An early occurrence of this trance state forces Synch, Skin, and Jubilee to abandon her during a trip to New York City, where they end up battling and defeating Hemingway of Gene Nation. Monet eventually wakes up and reunites with the team, just in time to save Jubilee and Leech from being crushed by a falling slab of debris. Though Jubilee is grateful, she later points out that Monet would be a major liability if she ever spaced out in battle. Monet brushes aside her concern, and continues to do so virtually any time her trances are mentioned in the near future.\n\nDuring the \"Generation X Annual '95\", the team is introduced to Cordelia Frost, Emma's younger and even less trustworthy sister, and her constant companion, the mutant Mondo, who is able to absorb both organic and inorganic matter, taking on its properties, as well as transport himself through these same materials. Mondo eventually joins the team, while Cordelia leaves. At the same time, Jubilee discovers and accidentally rips Monet's diary, which more closely resembles a children's coloring book. Penance later has something resembling a seizure while swimming with Jubilee, forcing Emma to give her psychic equivalent of a sedative. Penance remains unconscious in the medical wing for the next two issues, with Jubilee as her most constant visitor.\n\nAlmost immediately after Chamber saves the team from a near-fatal attack by Omega Red (Penance wakes up at some point between issues 11 and 12), they are again attacked by Emplate, who desires to have Penance returned to him. This time, Emplate has recruited a team of Hellions to do his dirty work—all of whom are under his thrall, including Gayle Edgerton, Chamber's former lover who was paralyzed when his powers first manifested. Gayle helps Emplate because she wants revenge on Chamber, but once Generation X is captured, he betrays her. Monet is the last to be captured, and Emplate reveals the first of several St. Croix family secrets to Generation X: that Monet is actually his younger sister. However, he does not reveal to them that the twins have fused to become Monet, though it is clear from his choice of words that he is now aware of this as well. Monet manages to escape and contact the X-Men for help before the Hellions find her. The X-Man Bishop arrives to assist Monet. He is disturbed upon learning of Monet's relation to Emplate, and reveals that hordes of \"Emplates\" will be a source of great trouble in the future.\n\nMeanwhile, Jubilee manages to enrage Emplate into absorbing her genetic marrow, knowing that because she cannot control her powers when she is angry, neither can Emplate. The resulting explosion of pyrotechnics frees Generation X, and Emplate flees with Penance, though it is unclear if she was taken against her will. They re-emerge before Monet and Bishop, and Bishop immediately tries to kill Emplate to spare the future from his taint. Penance confronts Monet, torn between killing her and helping her. Monet does not resist, hoping her death will atone for their brother's sins. Upon hearing this, Penance attacks Emplate, which shocks him into retreat. However, he reveals that he has converted Synch into his minion, and transported him to his hometown of St. Louis to feed on his own family and friends. The team manages to stop Synch, though it is Monet who ultimately defeats him by daring him to truly synch with her. Whatever Synch finds inside her horrifies him and shocks Emplate's influence out of him, leaving only more questions in the team's minds about what else Monet may be hiding.\n\nWhile the rest of the Marvel Universe was occupied with Onslaught, Emma, sensing the disturbance, tried to protect Generation X by taking over their minds, gently but firmly forcing them to accompany her to her home. While this did indeed protect them from Onslaught, it also left them basically defenseless against Toad, who Emma had allowed to live in her home. To correct this oversight, Nicole projected herself into Emma's mind for the first time (Emma of course mistook her for a younger Monet), explaining the situation so that Emma would release the team and talk sense into Toad.\n\nFollowing this adventure, Generation X comes to the attention of Bastion of . For the time being, Bastion takes special notice of Chamber, Banshee, and Emplate, and their disastrous first meeting at the airport. Bastion eventually figures out Chamber's identity, and upon learning that Chamber's plane ticket was purchased by Frost Enterprises, gradually comes closer to exposing Generation X's (and more importantly, the X-Men's) secrets.\n\nMonet enters one of her trances during a xenobiology midterm given by visiting professor Beast. Penance ventures into the classroom via the window and attempts to sit for the test, and though she only manages to shred her test paper, Emma considers it a plus that she is at least trying to fit in. Beast is fascinated when Monet re-emerges from the trance, having built a detailed origami structure out of her test paper. Beast reveals to Sean and Emma that Monet's trances likely have nothing to do with her mutant power, as they first thought. Instead, he recognizes the signs and says Monet is autistic. Though Sean and Emma discuss treatment options and try to talk Monet into seeing a doctor, she abruptly destroys the school's cars on the scheduled date and refuses to go. Sean chases her into the sky, where she tearfully describes having been poked and prodded by numerous doctors as a child, and begs him not to make her go through that again. Sean agrees, though Emma insists that Monet simply manipulated him to avoid the problem yet again.\n\nEmplate appears while Monet, Husk, Jubilee, and Emma spend the Christmas holidays at the St. Croix home in Monaco. He only reveals himself to Monet, and his presence seems to trigger in her the ability to view mutagenic auras, just as he does. Emplate invites Monet to join him, and failing that, asks her to find someone to take his place in the dimension where he is constantly torn apart. Monet cannot imagine condemning anyone else to such a fate, and Emplate vanishes into a sea of white hands that tear at his flesh.\n\nGeneration X is then attacked by the team of Sean's cousin Black Tom Cassidy and Mondo, who undergoes a fearsome transformation in appearance and attitude, having been shown waiting for Tom's signal (over the course of several issues) to reveal his true nature. Black Tom's plant manipulation completely transforms the school grounds, and he forces Sean and Emma to fight each other to the death in front of the captured team while Mondo captures Jubilee, who managed to evade them. Bastion finds Jubilee first, and protects her by killing Mondo, but then takes Jubilee hostage and transports her to his desert base in New Mexico. Emma uses her powers to force Sean to unleash his sonic scream, supposedly killing her in the process. Sean is rescued by Penance, who slices Tom in half with a single blow.\n\nHaving discovered that the captured team was actually merely empty husks, Sean sets out to find Generation X. Unknown to him, they have been transported to a tiny island in the ocean. Monet and Chamber try to protect their teammates, but the sheer hopelessness of the situation causes Monet to panic, and she attempts to fly away and get help, but soon exhausts herself and falls into the ocean. Synch pulls her back onto the island, but Monet has lost all hope. Emma recovers and searches Sean's mind, helping him realize where the team is. Oddly enough, the team suddenly finds itself on a rusty ship at sea where their dreams seem to have been realized: Chamber's body is restored and he is dating Husk, Synch and Jubilee are in love and run a camp for kids, and Emplate is restored to the kind brother that Monet once knew. Skin, however, is tied to a pole because he will not make a request of Glorian, the Dream Shaper who rescued the team. He eventually convinces Glorian to send the team home, though Glorian assumes this means Skin's home of Los Angeles and sends the team there. Sean realizes that Black Tom planned to send the team to the sentient island Krakoa.\n\n Skin leads the team through East L.A. in search of his cousin Gil. Monet inexplicably becomes very childlike and playful while at Venice Beach, but only Angelo seems to find this odd. Skin's ex-girlfriend Tores, tipped off by Operation: Zero Tolerance that he had faked his death, furiously corners the team with her gang at Gil's house in hopes of killing Skin. Prime Sentinels soon destroy the house, with Generation X, Gil, and Tores barely escaping in time and fleeing into the sewers. Meanwhile, Sean, Emma, and Penance intercept a distress call from the X-Men, who have been shot down by Operation: Zero Tolerance, and head to Emma's home in Miami in disguise. They are met by Emplate's henchman D.O.A., who arranges a deal: Emplate will reveal Monet's location (and thus the team's location), but in exchange for Penance.\n\nSean flat out refuses, but Emma knocks him out with a psi-bolt and proceeds with the deal. In L.A., Monet notices Chamber being purposely distant to Husk (because he suspects Skin and Husk are growing closer) and advises him to correct his mistake, which Chamber does. Monet also notices Synch having regrets, as there are many things he may never do if they die in the coming battle. He asks for permission to kiss Monet, and she agrees on the condition that it \"doesn't count if we don't die\", and kisses him first, leaving him stunned.\n\nBack in Miami, Sean wakes up in time to punch Emma and calls for Penance, who instantly frees herself from Emplate's grasp, giving Sean a clear shot with his sonic scream. Though Emma desperately claims she wouldn't have really gone through with the deal, Sean does not believe her, tells her to stay away from the kids and the school, and leaves with Penance. During the battle against the Prime Sentinels in L.A., Tores briefly displays the mutant ability to harness psychic energy and direct it as a weapon. Generation X launches an ambush, but is quickly overwhelmed. Synch and Monet are wounded, and she urges him to synch with her invulnerability so he can survive the next wave of attacks, which he has never done before. As he does so, Synch glimpses Monet's true nature, calling her \"M&M\" just before the attack. As planned, Gil then sets off a huge explosion to destroy the hideout and the Sentinels. Synch emerges from the rubble first, using his aura to locate Monet. Instead he finds Nicole and Claudette, each in a coma and separated for the first time since joining the team as Monet. However, the secret of where the real Monet was would remain a mystery to the team.\n\nSoon after Emplate returned to terrorize the young mutants, the twins merged with Emplate, creating a new persona, called \"M-Plate\". When the three of them separated, the twins finally learned what their brother did to the real Monet St. Croix. Everett managed to convince Nicole to finally reveal the truth to the rest of the team. Immediately after Nicole's story, the twins formed back into \"M\" and then merged with Penance, freeing Monet in the process.\n\nReturning to normal, the traumatized M became self-reliant and outwardly harsh and defensive to make up for her fear and insecurity, causing her to clash with many of her Generation X teammates. The only person she allowed to see her vulnerabilities was Everett Thomas, with whom she started a brief romantic relationship. A rivalry soon started with her teammate Jubilee, which only intensified after Monet and Everett became an item. When Emplate returned during the school dance, Jubilee caused an explosion, which, once again, separated the twins from each other, and left the Penance body to become its own being.\n\nUpon hearing the return of the twins, Cartier St. Croix decided to visit his three daughters. Coming face to face with his severely injured son Marius, Cartier apologized to him. Marius then revealed that he was the one responsible for the death of his mother, further infuriating Monet.\n\nMonet was then transferred to an exclusive boarding school in the Swiss Alps. The school was burned down during a battle with its headmaster (a vampire) and M chose to return to the Massachusetts Academy.\n\nWhen Monet returned, she and Everett continued to grow close and began to intensify their relationship. However, Monet was the most devastated when Synch sacrificed his own life to stop an exploding bomb that had been placed in the academy by Emma Frost’s sister, Adrienne. After the tragic incident, the team rapidly began to fall apart, even as Monet began to open up and act more vulnerable around her teammates. Monet also began to observe Emma acting strangely villainous. After they found out Emma had killed her sister in retribution for Everett's death, the entire team questioned Emma's leadership abilities, particularly when combined with Banshee's relapse into alcoholism following the death of his lover, Moira MacTaggert. The school was promptly closed when the students decided their instructors were no longer fit to teach them.\n\nAfter Generation X disbanded, M temporarily joined Banshee's militant X-Corps with Husk and Jubilee in order to keep an eye on the devastated Irish mutant. However, the X-Corps were soon destroyed by Mystique, leaving M to join the X-Corporation's European branch, located in Paris, where she assisted Cannonball, Multiple Man, and Siryn in defeating Weapon XII. Monet helped the X-Men battle Black Tom Cassidy and the Juggernaut before returning to her duties at X-Corporation Paris.\n\nFollowing the events of House of M and the shutdown of X-Corporation, M, who also has appeared on the cover of \"Vanity Fair\", has opted to join X-Factor Investigations, a private detective agency run by Multiple Man. Monet completed her first mission on the team by telepathically tricking the famous actor, Jack Vaughn, to confess to the murder of Gloria Santiago's sister. Afterwards, Monet broke down crying in Jamie Madrox's arms, but quickly threatened to break him in half if he ever revealed her moment of \"weakness\". A comment made to Rictor seems to imply she no longer wishes to go by the name M. However, in a therapy session with Doc Samson, Monet stated that she hides behind the \"M\" persona so that others will not see how vulnerable she has become after the lengthy time she was held captive by her brother.\nMonet also had a brief romantic fling with Madrox. The tryst did not end well because Madrox was unsure whether he or his duplicate had slept with Monet while he or his duplicate slept with Siryn at the same time. While the two women initially refused to speak to each other, they eventually took a shopping trip to patch things up after being threatened by Layla Miller. During this Paris trip, the two encountered a small anti-mutant mob marching on Paris' own Mutant Town, and were arrested by the Gendarmes for breaking the riot up. However, in a French prison, the mob leader bragged to Siryn and Monet that he and his mob had succeeded in burning down the building, which was why he had been arrested. In response, Monet crucified the mob leader before she and Siryn broke out of the prison to check on the ex-mutants. When the two arrived, they found an abandoned girl whom Monet decided to take back to the States.\n\nWhen the Hulk came to the X-Mansion to capture Xavier over his part in the Hulk's banishment from Earth, Monet and the rest of X-Factor came to help. During the fight, she said to the Hulk that she was virtually invulnerable, and he responded by kicking her to New Jersey.\n\nM has a small role during . She is seen along with the rest of the X-Teams and has a talk with Warpath about his feelings concerning his late friend Caliban and being a member of X-Force. Later, she aids Emma and the Stepford Cuckoos in locating the baby. She is present at the final battle on Muir Island.\n\nM buys all the women of X-Factor Investigations an iPhone, but destroys Rahne's when she finds out she is leaving. She tells Rahne about how she is always telling her to feel and claims that since Layla is not coming back, she will keep her iPhone in mint condition until Rahne returns to X-Factor. She leaves, telling Rahne to not be a stranger, or stranger than she already is. She then goes to a bar with Siryn where Theresa reveals she is pregnant. Monet offers to be with her if she chooses to get it aborted, only to be told she is not taking that option. M also states that Theresa has embryos more mature than Jamie, and that \"he would make a crap father.\" Later Siryn tries to tell Jamie of her pregnancy but Monet realizes Siryn still loves Jamie.\n\nX-Factor is employed by the estranged father of former teen X-Man Darwin to locate him. Monet, Guido, and Jamie find Darwin traveling with Longshot, who is later revealed to be a Skrull. The trio also come into conflict with She-Hulk and Jazinda, who are in pursuit of said Skrull. For some reason, She-Hulk gets very angry around Monet. After he is captured, the groups go their separate ways and reunite Darwin with his father. Monet is oblivious to the fact Darwin has a crush on her.\n\nShortly after the events of Secret Invasion, Darwin's father sells him out to a group of people called the Karma Project. While he is in a coma, Monet is called in to read his father's mind only to find nothing. Later the real Longshot shows up to help and Monet shows an attraction to him, though it is unknown whether it's Longshot's ability of having women fall in love with him or not. She then teams up with Madrox, Strong Guy, and Longshot in finding Darwin and is present at the birth of Sean.\n\nVal Cooper sends Monet, Guido, and Darwin to acquire a shipment of weapons designed to take out mutants, though instead they sink it to the bottom of the ocean. Monet later falls under Cortex's mental control and proceeds to attack her teammates until they are attacked by three Sentinels from the future. Monet is freed from Cortex's control by Longshot and when she attacks Cortex, she discovers that he is the second Madrox duplicate who was sent to the other future timeline during \"Messiah Complex.\"\n\nIn the aftermath of the battle with Cortex, X-Factor unofficially splits due to tensions between Jamie and Terry. Guido and Madrox move back to New York while Monet, Darwin, and the others stay in Detroit in order to work under Terry. However, the Detroit team soon crumbles when a depressed Terry chooses to disband the team and move back to Ireland. Monet chooses to move in with Terry in order to keep an eye on her. Monet worries for her friend, who becomes increasingly withdrawn and even has a brief sexual fling with her former boyfriend Deadpool.\n\nUnsure of how to help Terry, Monet visits the team in New York in an attempt to get Jamie and Terry to work their problems out. However, upon arriving back at X-Factor headquarters, Val Cooper informs Monet that her father Cartier has been kidnapped by a terrorist cell that will behead him unless Monet surrenders herself to them.\n\nMonet and Guido eventually travel to South America to confront the kidnappers, only to have their plane shot down. Monet awakens in an illusion where she is led to believe that she is once again transforming into Penance. It is revealed that the mastermind behind the kidnapping is Baron Mordo, who plans to feed off Monet in order to combat his cancer.\n\nAfter Strong Guy is resurrected by Layla Miller at the cost of his soul, Guido having no restraints, kisses Monet. Monet attempts to discuss what happened between them before being attacked by Rahne and Shatterstar's pursuers.\n\nMonet becomes scared of Guido not having a soul and calls him a freak. She also gets into a heated argument with Theresa (Siryn/Banshee) about her not letting go of people's death.\n\nMonet becomes enraged after seeing Madrox alive, thinking that Layla was responsible for his resurrection. She slams Layla into a brick wall, then flies off with her into the New York skyline. Madrox tells Terry to fly after them, but Terry says that if Monet really wanted to hurt her, she would have done it right there. Monet drops her off at the Empire State building and scares the tourists away so she and Layla can have words. Monet says to Layla that she always knows what's going on. Layla states that this is not the case, and didn't resurrect Jamie. She uses the telescope as an example of her not knowing every event as the events get closer and then blackout. Layla then tells Monet that Guido was supposed to have died and not Jamie. She states she wanted to change fate so Monet wouldn't blame herself for Guido's death which would have resulted in her going through a year-long depression. She wanted to spare Monet pain, who, according to Layla, will eventually become her best friend. After hearing all this, Monet leaves Layla so that she can have some space and collect her thoughts.\n\nMonet was shown to be dying from a serious brain injury when she fought Pluto, God of The Underworld, where he mercilessly beat her to near death until Wolfsbane's son intervened and killed Pluto. Later in a fight with Strong Guy, M died due to the brain injury, but is subsequently resurrected by Guido when he becomes Lord of Hell.\n\nAfter the Hell On Earth Saga, Monet finds Darwin in Las Vegas. They have drinks at a bar, and he questions her where her soul went to after she died. Annoyed by the singer, she approaches him and explains that there is no heaven, but only nothingness or Hell. Darwin finally admits his feeling towards her only to be rejected. As Darwin leaves the bar, Monet aggressively corners him on wall, and tells him that she needs to feel something after her experience with death. The two end up having sex with one another. Darwin knows that Monet is not mentally prepared for a relationship, but is happy to be there.\n\nMonet has returned to The Jean Grey Academy after her event with X-Factor, to try to make sense on what to do with her life. Jubilee, her old teammate is surprised to see her again. She then meets Karima Shapandar and immediately forms a friendship with her due to both of them having an experience with death. Lady Deathstrike and her team see her jogging with Monet, and attempt to ambush them. During the confrontation, Karima is shot, and Monet manages to protect her temporarily, until Monet gets caught off guard. Before Deathstrike could finish her attack, Karima shoots and injures Lady Deathstrike causing her to retreat to regroup and get more intel. Monet explains to the X-Men that Lady Deathstrike's consciousness is now in the body of a teenage Latina named Ana Cortes. Storm asks Monet to help them figure out what her plan is. Monet, true to fashion thinks about herself stating that she's just there to take some downtime and is not interested in becoming the team's new bruiser. Jubilee, infuriated, says to Monet that Storm isn't asking. Monet agrees to help due to the fact that she feels guilty about Karima taking a bullet that she feels she should have stopped.\n\nIn the wake of the M-Pox crisis, Monet joined Magneto's team of X-Men, with the goal of protecting mutantkind at any cost. During this time, she developed a love-hate relationship with the reformed Sabretooth, whom she frequently teased. They bickered so much that Psylocke tells them to just get a room, prompting Monet to ask if she was jealous. While investigating a mysterious illness and series of abductions that befell the Morlocks M and her teammate Sabretooth ran afoul of Emplate. She tried to distract him long enough so he would fade away, but as he did, he managed to possess M, cursing her with the hunger he suffered. Having been with her on the mission, Sabretooth was aware of what happened & later visited Monet in her room to tell her that her secret is safe with him & that she could feed on him whenever she needed.\n\nDuring a war between Inhumans and the X-Men, M and Sabretooth became part of the mutants who guarded over the Inhumans sent to captivity in Limbo. M began to feed on the Inhumans instead, wanting revenge & blaming them for the death of Madrox by releasing the T-Mist into the air. A fight broke out when Sabretooth tries to stop her, but at the end of the issue, he is willing to let her kill the last Inhuman to keep her curse secret. Sabretooth eventually ran away with her in order to help her contain Emplate's possession and find a cure.\n\nAfter somehow getting separated from Sabretooth, M continues hunting mutants to feed off of and ends up hiding out by the Xavier Institute, now located in Central Park, New York. After the X-Men discover that someone's been hunting mutants and draining their powers, Jubilee's students decide to take matters into their own hands and hunt the perpetrator but end up caught in M's ambush. Jubilee arrives to save her students, and upon seeing her old friend, M temporarily regains control of herself and immediately retreats.\n\nMonet hides out in an abandoned subway car, where D.O.A. brings in Morlocks for her & Emplate to feast on. Emplate warns M that Morlocks are not enough, and they need stronger mutant marrow to remain anchored to their plane of existence. M declares she's looking for a more permanent solution to their problem.\n\nM-Plate attacks the Xavier Institute, going after the students. She has D.O.A. use his abilities to disconnect the school from the outside world, cutting off any possible interference. The original teammates, Chamber, Husk, and Jubilee all fight M-Plate and are soundly defeated -Jubilee almost being killed by having her amulet torn off and thrown into the sunlight to burn. Thanks to the timely save of Quentin, he uses his Phoenix shard to cure Jubilee's vampirism & returning her mutant powers.\n\nM-Plate, having absorbed Hindsight's powers earlier now has his ability of seeing the past memories of whomever she touches. Bling comes up with the plan and touches M-Plate, the latter seeing her past. This freaks out Monet, with Emplate telling her to get a hold of herself. Bling gets word to the other previous Generation X team, and they all combine their efforts and grab a hold of M-Plate. Monet is panicked, with Jubilee apologizing to her & saying she needs to remember. All the memories of her time with the team come flooding back, which eventually breaks Emplate's hold on her, separating the two & finally curing Monet. Marius fades away to his own dimension and Monet is taken to the infirmary with the injured students. Jubilee watches after her, with Monet insisting that she's fine & just needs a manicure & a blowout. The two have a chat and Monet is her usually snarky self, with Jubilee smiling and complaining that she was almost happy Monet was back.\n\nSometime after the events of Generation X, Monet fell under the mind-control of Mentallo and joined Stryker's cult, The Church of Human Potential. She lured Weapon X-Force there so she could share the gift with Sabretooth. She's freed from Mentallo with the aid of Deathstrike & teams up with Sabretooth's Weapon X-Force to take down the cult -even going into the depths of Hell to kill Stryker for good.\n\nDuring this final mission, she & Sabretooth reconnect with Domino, Deathstrike, Omega Red, and Deadpool believing them to have feelings for each other. It's revealed Sabretooth left M while she was possessed by Emplate and has regretted it for a while since she was one of the few to treat him decently after his inversion. Monet doesn't blame him due to how much of a monster she became but Sabretooth still felt guilty despite her understanding. He wants t her to know something, but is interrupted before he can tell her. Sadly, things end tragically before the truth can be revealed. \n\nSabretooth is lost in battle facing a power-boosted Mentallo. Being overwhelmed by the former, Mentallo shot him with Domino's discarded gun, sending him into the blade machine as the final sacrifice in Stryker's resurrection. This devastated Monet, who screamed for him as he was sliced to pieces. Monet was present with Weapon X-Force during Graydon's resurrection. Mystique says Sabretooth is responsible but Monet sadly asks what happened to Sabretooth.\n\nM is later seen living on the sovereign nation of constructed by X as the new mutant homeland for him and his people. She was amongst a host of heavy hitter X-Men selected to take the fight to the Orchis Group before they could bring the abominable Mother Mold online, whilst on their way to the Orchis Forge from their lunar base the team was met with heavy resistance by their opposing force. \n\nAfter their ship was believed to have been dispatched by the Forge's armed forces, Husk and Archangel were found dead on arrival. The rest of the team went to work while Monet stayed behind with Jean to set up a telepathic relay for everyone to keep in contact with one another. The vessel they were on was eventually boarded and M shoved Jean out an escape pod while fighting to the death with Orchis's soldiers in her Penance form. \n\nAt a later date, thanks to The Five, who merged their collective power together in order to resurrect Monet as well as Warren, Jean, Scott, Paige, Logan, Raven and Kurt with help from a Cerebro empowered X. Monet was more than happy to be back amongst the living but was hesitant to receive a hug from Storm, the six heroes were well received by their fellow mutants back home; hailed as saviors of the highest caliber after giving their lives for preserving their newfound way of life.\n\nMonet is superhuman in essentially all aspects, possessing superhuman strength capable of lifting automobiles and snapping street lights with ease, as well as superhuman physical attributes like invulnerability, agility, dexterity, speed, reflexes & reactions, coordination, and balance. X-Man Bishop noted that M possesses a \"superior excellent rating\" in all human physical categories. She is virtually invulnerable, at least enough to withstand common firearms at long range and direct blows of the vastly more powerful Hulk and even has a healing factor, allowing her to heal and recover from wounds much faster. Her healing factor also makes her more resistant to toxins and disease, and possibly retards the aging process. However it seems that her invulnerability is (at least partially) psionic to some extent, as she is sometimes seen to be injured by lesser forces. Monet also possesses telescopic and night vision as well as superhuman acute hearing and it is possible her other senses are also enhanced. She has perfect memory and superhuman intuitive skills, for example she has been shown being able to reroute one of Arcade's robots to track the signal back to the source without knowing the exact specifications of this robot. She is able to psionically levitate and move herself in the air by force of will, allowing her to fly at supersonic speeds approaching Mach 3 and she manifested minor (or at least rather crude) telekinetic capabilities in the past, deflecting bullets or projecting thought waves as concussive force. M is also a telepath with the ability to read minds, project her thoughts into the minds of others, and defensively mask her mind against telepathic intrusion. She has limited offensive capabilities, such as mind control and the ability to manipulate the memory of others. The range of her telepathy is generally limited to within a few feet of Monet. Furthermore, Monet also has the ability to view mutant auras.\n\nMonet and all her siblings are able to merge into different combinations with different powers, although merging seems easiest for the twins Nicole and Claudette.\n\nM is formidable in hand-to-hand combat and is of genius level intellect. It is unknown whether or not her mutations adhere to her intelligence.\n\nMonet never made a proper appearance in the harsh world known as the Age of Apocalypse. A girl referred to in the book as \"Claudia\" (which may be one or the two merged St. Croix twins) was known as Know-It-All and was part of Generation Next, having merged herself with the team's computer system. She risked her life to search the databases of Apocalypse, a task which ended in her destruction at the hands of the Shadow King.\n\nClaudette along with Nicole also appeared working alongside their brother in Apocalypse's Elite Mutant Force, going by the name \"The Monets\".\n\nAge of Apocalypse took place before Scott Lobdell, Monet's creator, left the X-books. His original intention for the character of Monet was for her to only be a fake persona used by the M-Twins when they were joined together. The appearances of Know-It-All and her sister in the Monets were intended as clues towards Monet's true nature in the regular continuity.\n\nAfter the fall of Apocalypse and the ascension of Weapon Omega to power as the new Apocalypse, he began resurrecting deceased Alpha mutants. The operation was interrupted by Prophet, however, who stopped most of the resurrections with the exception of Monet's. The connection between Know-It-All and Monet seems to have been abandoned by Marvel, at least for now.\n\nAfter returning to life, Monet renamed herself as Penance and began rallying mutants to her cause which was to seek forgiveness for their past crimes and to rebuild their world. She was soon approached by the servants of Weapon Omega–Azazel, Prelate Summers and Colossus–who asked her to meet Weapon Omega in order to discuss how she could service the citizens under him. Penance refused and used her telepathic powers to restore Colossus' memories, which caused him to side with her. She attempted to do the same for Cyclops but failed and was blasted for her troubles, leading to a fight breaking out between Colossus and Cyclops. Azazel agrees to leave and takes Cyclops with him, promising to return.\n\nPenance is immediately approached by Prophet, the leader of the human resistance who reveals that it was he that resurrected her in hope that she would aid them and that she would be more open-minded than Weapon Omega. Azazel returns with Weapon Omega, who has come to see her kneel before him, which she does. Just as Weapon Omega leaves, the Human Resistance arrives with Sugarman. Penance promises to be in touch with Prophet.\n\nIn the alternate future in the \"\" series written by Chris Claremont, M is a member of the XSE and a critical part of the hastily marshalled forces attempting to defeat Mister Sinister.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096411", "title": "Redgauntlet", "text": "Redgauntlet\n\nRedgauntlet (1824) is a historical novel by Sir Walter Scott, set primarily in Dumfriesshire, southwest Scotland, in 1765, and described by Magnus Magnusson (a point first made by Andrew Lang) as \"in a sense, the most autobiographical of Scott's novels.\" It describes the beginnings of a fictional \"third\" Jacobite Rebellion, and includes \"Wandering Willie's Tale\", a famous short story which frequently appears in anthologies.\n\nComposition of \"Redgauntlet\" was swift and steady. It began very shortly after the completion of \"Saint Ronan's Well\" in early December 1823, and by early January 1824 proofs had reached the fourth letter. The first volume was in print before the end of March, the second was probably written in late March and April, and the third was certainly composed in May.\n\nThe first edition was published in Edinburgh on 14 June 1824 and in London on the 29th of the same month. It is likely that Scott was responsible for at least some of the small changes to the text of the novel when it appeared in the 1827 \"Tales and Romances\" (his involvement being with the octavo and 18mo formats rather than the intervening duodecimo). During January and February 1831 he revised the text more extensively and provided an introduction and notes for the 'Magnum' edition, in which it appeared as Volumes 35 and 36 in April and May 1832. The standard modern edition, by G. A. M. Wood with David Hewitt, was published as Volume 17 of the Edinburgh Edition of the Waverley Novels in 1997: this is based on the first edition with emendations mainly from the manuscript; the 'Magnum' material appears in Volume 25b (2012).\n\nThe novel's hero is a young man named Darsie Latimer. Early in the novel he is kidnapped by Hugh Redgauntlet, and taken to a village in Dumfriesshire. Darsie's friend Alan Fairford sets out to rescue him. After much intrigue Darsie discovers that Redgauntlet is his uncle, and he is also reunited with his sister. He also discovers that a number of prominent Jacobites, and Prince Charles Edward Stuart (Bonnie Prince Charlie or the Young Pretender) himself are staying in the village. Redgauntlet has summoned them all to start a new Jacobite rebellion, and he wants Darsie to join them. However, the Prince is still reeling from the French naval defeats at Quiberon Bay and Lagos, which represented Charles's last realistic chance to recover the British throne for the Stuart dynasty. Furthermore, Redgauntlet discovers that his fellow Jacobites are not as committed as he, and their stated objection is that they suspect the Prince's mistress, Clementina Walkinshaw, of being a spy. During these discussions, General Campbell arrives amongst them to announce that he and the government know what the conspirators are up to. The Prince is allowed to go into exile, and his followers peacefully disperse. Redgauntlet, seeing that the Jacobite cause is now lost, joins the Prince in exile. Darsie is set free having always remained loyal to the current king, and Alan marries Darsie's sister.\n\nDarsie had been Alan Fairford's favourite schoolfellow, and, to please his son, Mr Fairford had consented that Darsie, who received an ample allowance on the understanding that he was to make no inquiries respecting his family until he completed his twenty-fifth year, should live with them. Alan was studying for the law, but his companion had started for his first country ramble, and the story commences with a long correspondence between them. As he returned from fishing in the Solway Firth, with Benjie as his instructor, Darsie was overtaken by the tide, and carried by Mr Herries, dressed as a fisherman, on horseback to a cottage, where his niece Lilias said grace at supper-time; and next morning he was placed under the guidance of Joshua Geddes. The Quaker, who was part owner of some fishing nets in the river, invited him to spend a few days at his house; and while there he heard from Alan that a young lady had called to warn him that his friend was in considerable danger, and to urge that he should at once return to Edinburgh. A letter, however, from old Mr Fairford determined him not to do so; and having made acquaintance with the blind fiddler, who told him a tale of the Redgauntlet family, Darsie went with him to a fishers' merry-making, where he danced with Lilias, who reproached him for leading an idle life, and begged him to leave the neighbourhood.\n\nMr Fairford had arranged that Peter Peebles, an eccentric plaintiff, should be his son's first client, and Alan was pleading the cause before the Lords Ordinary when his father, by mistake, handed him a letter from Mr Crosbie, announcing that Darsie had mysteriously disappeared. Alan instantly rushed out of court, and started in search of his friend, who had accompanied the Quaker to await an attack on his fishing station, and been made prisoner by the rioters, of whom Mr Herries was the leader. After being nearly drowned, and recovering from a fever, he awoke in a strange room, to which he was confined for several days, when he was visited by his captor, and conducted by him to an interview with Squire Foxley, who, acting as a magistrate, declined to interfere with Mr Herries' guardianship. As the squire was leaving, however, Mr Peebles arrived to apply for a warrant against Alan for throwing up his brief, and startled Mr Herries by recognising him as a Redgauntlet and an unpardoned Jacobite. Darsie obtained a partial explanation from him, and was told to prepare for a journey disguised as a woman. Meanwhile, Alan had applied to the provost, and, having obtained from his wife's relation, Mr Maxwell, a letter to Herries, he started for Annan, where, under the guidance of Trumbull, he took ship for Cumberland. On landing at Crakenthorp's inn, he was transported by Nanty Ewart, and a gang of smugglers, to Fair-ladies' House, where he was nursed through a fever, and introduced to a mysterious Father Buonaventure. After being closely questioned and detained for a few days, he was allowed to return with a guide to the inn.\nDarsie was also travelling thither with Herries and his followers, when he discovered that Lilias, who accompanied them, was his sister, and learnt from her his own real name and rank. He was also urged by his uncle to join a rising in favour of the Pretender; and, having hesitated to do so, was detained in custody when they reached their destination, where Alan, as well as other visitors and several of the neighbouring gentry, had already arrived. He was then introduced to a conference of Charles Edward Stuart's adherents, and afterwards to the prince himself, who refused to agree to their conditions, and decided to abandon the contemplated attempt in his favour. Ewart was, accordingly, ordered to have his brig in readiness, when Nixon suggested that he should turn traitor, upon which they fought and killed each other. Sir Arthur now learned that Fairford and Geddes were in the house; but, before he was allowed to see them, they had been shown into the room where Lilias was waiting, when Alan became aware that his fair visitor at Edinburgh was his friend's sister, and heard from her lips all the particulars of her brother's history. Their conversation was interrupted by the entrance of Benjie, in whose pocket a paper was found indicating that Nixon had communicated with the Government. During the confusion which ensued, General Campbell, a former military acquaintance of Herries, appeared, unarmed and unaccompanied, and after explaining that the Jacobites had been betrayed weeks before, announced that he was sufficiently supported with cavalry and infantry. The Rebellion was over before it could begin. His instructions, however, from King George were to allow all concerned in the plot to disperse, and he intimated that as many as wished might embark in the vessel which was in waiting.\n\nThe Pretender was, accordingly, led by the Laird of Redgauntlet to the beach, and Lilias offered to accompany her uncle in his voluntary exile. This, however, he would not permit, and, after an exchange of courtesies with the general, the prince departed amidst the tears and sobs of the last supporters of his cause, and henceforward the term Jacobite ceased to be a party name. Lilias, of course, married Alan, and Herries, who had asked his nephew's pardon for attempting to make a rebel of him, threw away his sword, and became the prior of a monastery.\n\n\"Principal characters in bold\"\n\nVolume One\n\nLetter 1 Darsie Latimer to Alan Fairford: Beginning his journey in Dumfries, Darsie writes to Alan back in Edinburgh lamenting his sense of loneliness as an orphan.\n\nLetter 2 Alan Fairford to Darsie Latimer: Alan expresses his uneasy relationship with his severe father and advises Darsie to restrain his over-active imagination.\n\nLetter 3 Darsie Latimer to Alan Fairford: Darsie rejects most of Alan's criticisms. He is tantalised by the closeness of England, which he is prohibited from visiting.\n\nLetter 4 The Same to the Same: Darsie tells how a formidable horseman [Redgauntlet] rescued him from the advancing Solway tide and afforded him overnight accommodation.\n\nLetter 5 Alan Fairford to Darsie Latimer: Alan rejects Darsie's view of events as coloured. He tells how his strictly Presbyterian father had an awkward meal with the Jacobite Herries of Birrenswork [Redgauntlet].\n\nLetter 6 Darsie Latimer to Alan Fairford: Darsie tells how Herries disagreed with the Quaker Joshua Geddes over fishing rights. Joshua escorted him to Mount Sharon, discussing the issue on the way.\n\nLetter 7 The Same to the Same: Darsie tells how little Benjie's mistreatment of Joshua's horse Solomon pained the Quaker. After breakfast he accepted an invitation to stay for a while at Mount Sharon, and Rachel Geddes gave him a conducted tour with information about the fishing dispute.\nLetter 8 Alan Fairford to Darsie Latimer: Alan tells how he has received a strange visit from a young lady, followed by a letter signed 'Green Mantle' warning that Darsie is in danger. Alan urges Darsie to return to Edinburgh.\n\nLetter 9 Alexander Fairford, W.S., to Mr Darsie Latimer: Alan's father advises Darsie to remain where he is till he (Darsie) sees Herries, who is acquainted with his affairs.\n\nLetter 10 Darsie Latimer to Alan Fairford: Darsie indicates he will continue at Mount Sharon in the meantime. He tells how he encountered the fiddler Willie.\n\nLetter 11 The Same to the Same: Darsie transmits Wandering Willie's tale of his father's uncanny involvement with the Redgauntlet family.\n\nLetter 12 The Same to the Same: Darsie tells how he slipped away during a dance at a cottage after being warned by Greenmantle.\n\nLetter 13 Alan Fairford to Darsie Latimer: Alan tells Darsie that he has been given as his first legal case the long-running affair of Peter Peebles.\n\nVolume Two\n\nCh. 1 Narrative: Alan prepares for the Peebles case, but he suddenly leaves the court in mid-pleading on being handed a paper by his father.\n\nCh. 2 Narrative continued: The paper mistakenly handed to Alan is a letter from Provost Crosbie of Dumfries intimating that Darsie has not been heard of since an attack on Joshua's net. Returning home from the court, Alan's father finds a letter from his son indicating that he has left for Dumfries. \n\nCh. 3 Journal of Darsie Latimer: [The journal takes up the narrative retrospectively] Darsie accompanies Joshua to the fishing station where there is a calm before the expected attack.\n\nCh. 4 Darsie Latimer's Journal, in continuation: Darsie is injured during the attack and conducted across the Solway by Cristal Nixon.\n\nCh. 5 Darsie Latimer's Journal, in continuation: Recuperating in a farmhouse, Darsie gets the servant Dorcas to transmit a message to Herries asking to be taken before a magistrate, or at least for a personal interview. He receives an accommodating reply.\n\nCh. 6 Darsie Latimer's Journal, in continuation: Darsie is taken before Justice Foxley and links Herries's distinctive facial expression with a memory from his infancy. \n\nCh. 7 Darsie Latimer's Journal, in continuation: Peter Peebles arrives in search of a warrant for Alan's apprehension. Herries destroys a warrant issued for his own arrest. \n\nCh. 8 Darsie Latimer's Journal, in continuation: Darsie spurns Herries's Jacobite advances.\n\nCh. 9 Darsie Latimer's Journal, in continuation: Darsie is encouraged by Willie in an exchange of fragments of songs, and by Greenmantle with two written stanzas. A lady's costume complete with mask arrives for him to wear on horseback.\n\nCh. 10 Narrative of Alan Fairford: Provost Crosbie agrees to introduce Alan to Pate Maxwell. Alan visits Mount Sharon, where Rachel indicates that her father has left for Cumberland to help Darsie. \n\nCh. 11 Narrative of Alan Fairford, continued: Pate tells Alan the story of his association with Darsie's late father Sir Henry Redgauntlet and agrees to write to his brother Hugh.\n\nCh. 12 Narrative of Alan Fairford, continued: Crosbie advises Alan to read Pate's letter before delivering it. Alan arrives at Annan and is passed on by Tom Trumbull to Job Rutledge.\n\nCh. 13 Narrative of Alan Fairford, continued: Job transfers Alan to Nanty Ewart for the passage of the Solway by boat. \n\nVolume Three\n\nCh. 1 (14) Narrative of Alan Fairford, continued: Nanty tells Alan his story.\n\nCh. 2 (15) Narrative of Alan Fairford, continued: On landing, Nanty greets the innkeeper Father Crackenthorpe and conveys Alan, who has a severe fever, to the Sisters Arthuret at the community of Fairladies.\n\nCh. 3 (16) Narrative of Alan Fairford, continued: Alan has two interviews with Father Bonaventura [the Young Pretender], who opens Pate's letter to Redgauntlet and furnishes Fairford with a letter of his own to deliver along with it requesting that Darsie be released.\n\nCh. 4 (17) Narrative of Darsie Latimer: Greenmantle reveals herself to Darsie as his sister Lilias.\n\nCh. 5 (18) Narrative of Darsie Latimer, continued: Lilias tells her story, most notably her being directed by Redgauntlet to exchange gages at George III's coronation feast.\n\nCh. 6 (19) Narrative of Darsie Latimer, continued: Cristal Nixon says Darsie has little option but to go along with the Jacobite project, and Redgauntlet again urges it upon his nephew. They arrive at Crackenthorpe's, where Alan is present.\n\nCh. 7 (20) Narrative of Darsie Latimer, continued: Joshua and then Peter arrive. Joshua tries to restrain Nanty from attacking Peter, who turns out to have been the callous property owner who caused the death of Ewart's landlady and the ruin of her daughter.\n\nCh. 8 (21) Narrative of Alan Fairford: Redgauntlet uses the warrant which Justice Foxley signed at the prompting of his clerk Faggot to reinforce his control over Alan.\n\nCh. 9 (22) Narrative continued: Redgauntlet allows Darsie a glimpse of Alan. Charles declines to give up his mistress as his followers demand.\n\nCh. 10 (23) Narrative continued: Redgauntlet tells Cristal and Nanty to prepare Ewart's boat for evacuation. Cristal tries to get Nanty to betray the Prince, and in the resulting quarrel they kill each other. General Colin Campbell arrives unarmed, and by the King's order permits Redgauntlet to leave with the Prince, ending the conspiracy without fuss.\n\nConclusion: In a letter to the Author of Waverley, Dr Dryasdust presents the results of his researches into the subsequent careers of the main characters.\n\nThe reviewers of \"Redgauntlet\" were evenly divided into three groups: one found a welcome return to the author's best level, a second discerned virtues and defects in roughly equal measure, and a third saw no recovery from the nadir of \"Saint Ronan's Well\". A majority found much to admire in the strong and varied characterisation: Peter Peebles, Nanty Ewart, Joshua Geddes, and Redgauntlet himself were most often singled out, along with Wandering Willie, whose tale was pronounced the high point of the narrative. Several reviewers declared themselves weary of Jacobitism as a theme, and the unusual lack of love interest was a disappointment. There were differing views on the effectiveness of the plot, but it was widely felt that the correspondents in the first volume were insufficiently differentiated, unlike those in Richardson, and the double shift from letters to journal to conventional narrative was judged unsatisfactory.\n\nIn the introduction to the novel, Scott discussed the position of the former Jacobites:\n\nMost Scottish readers who can count the number of sixty years, must recollect many respected acquaintances of their youth, who, as the established phrase gently worded it, \"out in the Forty-Five.\" ... Jacobites were looked on in society as men who had proved their sincerity by sacrificing their interests to their principles; and in well-regulated companies, it was held a piece of ill-breeding to injure their feelings...\nMagnus Magnusson wrote:\n\nIts two young heroes, Alan Fairford and Darsie Latimer (Redgauntlet's nephew), between them reflect the duality of Scott's own character. Fairford, an Edinburgh advocate, is the son of a strict, ultra-conservative Edinburgh lawyer; Latimer ... is the young adventurer seeking to discover the secret of his parentage in the wilds of Dumfriesshire. Alan Fairford is Scott's Edinburgh self; Darsie Latimer is his Borders self. Between them ... they discover an ultimate commitment to the Hanoverian peace.\n\nDavid Daiches wrote:\n\nThe picture of the slow disintegration of the meeting, of the embarrassment of the Jacobites when faced with the problem of reconciling their fierce protestations of loyalty to the House of Stuart with the realities of their present situation, is brilliantly done. The scene is one of the finest in Scott. The two worlds are finally brought together, and the romantic one disintegrates.\n\nThe early parts of the novel are in epistolary form consisting of letters between Darsie Latimer and Alan Fairford, or between Darsie and Saunders Fairford (Alan's father). It changes to third person narration from the court case where Alan represents Peter Peebles. The remainder of the novel is mostly third person, with some extracts from the journal of Darsie Latimer.\n\nOne of the major highlights of the novel is \"Wandering Willie's Tale\", which occurs in the epistolary section. Wandering Willie is a wandering musician and the narrator of the tale. It is a ghost story with the climax being an encounter between Willie's grandfather, Steenie Steenson and the ghost of his landlord Robert Redgauntlet (Hugh's grandfather). All of the supernatural events have rational explanations which Willie mentions but vehemently denies.\n\nThe novel's plot is of course fictional, but according to Scott's introduction written in 1832 it was inspired by a genuine visit by Bonnie Prince Charlie to London in 1750. See also Devil's Beef Tub.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096417", "title": "Olivia MFSK", "text": "Olivia MFSK\n\nOlivia MFSK is an amateur radioteletype protocol, using multiple frequency-shift keying (MFSK) and designed to work in difficult (low signal-to-noise ratio plus multipath propagation) conditions on shortwave bands. The signal can be accurately received even if the surrounding noise is 10 dB stronger. It is commonly used by amateur radio operators to reliably transmit ASCII characters over noisy channels using the high frequency (3–30 MHz) spectrum. The effective data rate of the Olivia MFSK protocol is 150 characters/minute.\n\nOlivia modes are commonly referred to as Olivia \"X\" / \"Y\" (or, alternatively, Olivia \"Y\" / \"X\" ), where X refers to the number of different audio tones transmitted and Y refers to the bandwidth in hertz over which these signals are spread. Examples of common Olivia modes are 16/500, 32/1000 and 8/250.\n\nThe protocol was developed at the end of 2003 by Pawel Jalocha. The first on-the-air tests were performed by two radio amateurs, Fred OH/DK4ZC and Les VK2DSG on the Europe-Australia path in the 20-meter amateur band. The tests proved that the protocol works well and can allow regular intercontinental radio contacts with as little as one watt RF power. Since 2005 Olivia has become a standard for digital data transfer under white noise, fading and multipath, flutter (polar path) and auroral conditions.\n\nSince Olivia signals can be decoded even when received signals are extremely weak, (signal to noise ratio of –14 dB), signals strong enough to be decoded are sometimes below the noise floor and therefore impossible to search for manually. As a result, amateur radio operators have voluntarily decided upon channelization for this mode. This channelization allows even imperceptibly weak signals to be properly tuned for reception and decoding. By common convention amateur stations initiate contacts utilizing either the 16/500 or 32/1000 modes and then switch to other modes to continue the conversation. The following table lists the common center frequencies used in the amateur radio bands.\n\nFollowing the introduction of new amateur radio digital modes and the resulting overlapping with the Olivia calling frequencies on some amateur radio bands, US radio amateur Tomas Hood NW7US consulted the members subscribed to an Olivia MFSK users newsgroup and created a new list of calling frequencies in November 2017.\nConversations using Olivia are by convention initiated using either Olivia 16/500 (16 tones over a 500 Hz bandwidth) or Olivia 32/1000 (32 tones over a 1000 Hz bandwidth). Once communications have been established, the communicating parties mutually decide if another mode would better suit the current propagation conditions. The possible number of tones that can be chosen are 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, and 256 with higher numbers of tones giving more data redundancy but slower throughput and lower numbers of tones giving faster throughput at the cost of less redundancy. Available bandwidths for Olivia are 125 Hz, 256 Hz, 512 Hz, 500 Hz, 1000 Hz, and 2000 Hz with wider bandwidths giving faster throughput and narrower bandwidths giving slower throughput. The most commonly used combinations are 4/125, 8/250, 8/500, 16/500, 16/1000, and 32/1000.\n\nBeing a digital protocol, Olivia transmits a stream of ASCII (7-bit) characters. The characters are sent in blocks of 5. Each block takes 2 seconds to transmit, thus the effective data rate is 2.5 character/second or 150 characters/minute. The most common transmission bandwidth is 1000 Hz and the baud rate is 31.25 MFSK tones/second. To accommodate for different conditions and for the purpose of experimentation the bandwidth and the baud rate can be changed.\n\nThe Olivia transmission system is constructed of two layers: the lower, modulation and forward error correcting (FEC) code layer is a classical multiple frequency-shift keying (MFSK) while the higher layer is a forward error correcting code based on Walsh functions.\n\nBoth layers are of similar nature: they constitute a \"1-out-of-N\" FEC code. For the first layer the orthogonal functions are (co)sine functions, with 32 different frequencies (tones). At a given time only one of those 32 tones is being sent. The demodulator measures the amplitudes of all the 32 possible tones (using a Fourier transform) and (knowing that only one of those 32 could have been sent) picks up the tone with the highest amplitude.\n\nFor the second FEC layer: every ASCII character is encoded as one of 64 possible Walsh functions (or vectors of a Hadamard matrix). The receiver again measures the amplitudes for all 64 vectors (here comes the Hadamard Transform) and chooses the greatest.\n\nFor optimal performance the actual demodulators work with soft decisions and the final (hard) decision to decode a character is taken only at the second layer. Thus the first layer demodulator actually produces soft decisions for each of the 5 bits associated to an MFSK tone instead of simply picking up the highest tone to produce hard decisions for those 5 bits.\n\nIn order to avoid simple transmitted patterns (like a constant tone) and to minimize the chance for a false lock at the synchronizer the characters encoded into the Walsh function pass through a scrambler and interleaver. This stage simply shifts and XORs bits with predefined scrambling vectors and so it does not improve the performance where the white (uncorrelated) noise is concerned, but the resulting pattern gains certain distinct characteristics which are of great help to the synchronizer.\n\nThe receiver synchronizes automatically by searching through possible time and frequency offsets for a matching pattern. The frequency search range is normally +/- 100 Hz but can be as high as +/- 500 Hz if the user wishes so.\n\nThe default mode sends 32 tones within the 1000 Hz audio bandwidth and the tones are spaced by 1000 Hz/32 = 31.25 Hz. The tones are shaped to minimize the amount of energy sent outside the nominal bandwidth.\n\nThe exact shape formula is:\n\nwhere \"x\" ranges from – π to π.\n\nThe coefficients represent the symbol shape in the frequency domain and were calculated by a minimization procedure which sought to make the smallest crosstalk and the smallest frequency spillover.\n\nThe tones are sent at 31.25 baud or every 32 milliseconds. The phase is not preserved from one tone to the next: instead a random shift of ±90 degrees is introduced in order not to transmit a pure tone when the same symbol is repeatedly sent. Because the symbols are smoothly shaped there is no need to keep the phase constant, which normally is the case when no (e.g. square) shaping is used.\n\nThe modulator uses the Gray code to encode 5-bit symbols into the tone numbers.\n\nThe waveform generator is based on the 8000 Hz sampling rate. The tones are spaced by 256 samples in time and the window that shapes them is 512 samples long. The demodulator is based on the FFT with the size of 512 points. The tone spacing in frequency is 8000 Hz/256 = 31.25 Hz and the demodulator FFT has the resolution of 8000 Hz/512 = 15.625 Hz thus half of the tone separation.\n\nTo adapt the system to different propagation conditions, the number of tones and the bandwidth can be changed and the time and frequency parameters are proportionally scaled. The number of tones can be 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128 or 256. The bandwidth can be 125, 250, 500, 1000 or 2000 Hz.\n\nThe modulation layer of the Olivia transmission system in the default mode sends one of 32 tones at a time. Each tone thus constitutes a symbol that carries 5 bits of information. For the FEC code, 64 symbols are taken to form a block. Within each block one bit out of every symbol is taken and it forms a 64-bit vector coded as a Walsh function. Every 64-bit vector represents a 7-bit ASCII character, thus each block represents 5 ASCII characters.\n\nThis way, if one symbol (tone) becomes corrupted by the noise, only one bit of every 64-bit vector becomes corrupt, thus the transmission errors are spread uniformly across the characters within a block.\n\nThe two layers (MFSK+Walsh function) of the FEC code can be treated as a two dimensional code: the first dimension is formed along the frequency axis by the MFSK itself while the second dimension is formed along the time axis by the Walsh functions. The two dimensional arrangement was made with the idea in mind to solve such arranged FEC code with an iterative algorithm, however, no such algorithm has yet been established.\n\nThe scrambling and simple bit interleaving is applied to make the generated symbol patterns appear more random and with minimal self-correlation. This avoids false locks at the receiver.\n\nBit interleaving: The Walsh function for the first character in a block is constructed from the 1st bit of the 1st symbol, the 2nd bit of the 2nd symbol, and so on. The 2nd Walsh function is constructed from the 2nd bit of the 1st symbol, the 3rd bit of the 2nd symbol, and so on.\n\nScrambling: The Walsh functions are scrambled with a pseudo-random sequence 0xE257E6D0291574EC. The Walsh function for the 1st character in a block is scrambled with the scrambling sequence, the 2nd Walsh function is scrambled with the sequence rotated right by 13 bits, the 3rd with the sequence rotated by 26 bits, and so on.\n\nThe listed audio files both are encoded with the message:\" \"Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit.\" \"\n\nContestia is a digital mode that is directly derived from Olivia, which is not as robust. It is more of a compromise between performance and speed. It sounds and looks almost identical to Olivia, and can be configured in as many ways, but has twice the speed. The mode was developed by Nick Fedoseev, UT2UZ, in 2005.\n\nThe Contestia mode has 40 formats just like Olivia - some of which are considered standard and they all have different characteristics. The formats have a variation in bandwidth (125, 250, 500, 1000, and 2000 Hz) and number of tones used (2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, or 256).\n\nThe standard Contestia formats (bandwidth/tones) are 125/4, 250/8, 500/16, 1000/32, and 2000/64. The most commonly used formats are 250/8, 500/16, and 1000/32. The increased speed of Contestia is achieved by using a smaller symbol block size of (32) rather than Olivia (64) and by using a 6-bit decimal character set rather than 7-bit ASCII set which Olivia uses.\n\nThis reduced character set does not print out in both upper and lower case (such as RTTY). Some traffic nets may not like to use this mode as it does not support upper and lower case characters and extended characters found in many documents and messages. This does not pose a problem for normal digital chats within ham communications.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096420", "title": "Abel Prescott Jr.", "text": "Abel Prescott Jr.\n\nAbel Prescott Jr. (December 12, 1749September 21, 1775) was one of the Americans who rode to warn that the British soldiers were coming to Concord, Massachusetts on the eve of the American Revolution. His brother Samuel Prescott was also an American patriot.\n\nAbel Prescott Jr. was born in Concord, Massachusetts and was the fourth child of father Abel Prescott and Abigail (Brigham) Prescott. He never married and died at the age of 26 years, 5 months and 3 days.\n\nHis brother Samuel Prescott who had joined Paul Revere and William Dawes later was the only one of the three to actually make it to Concord. Abel rode south to warn the towns of Sudbury and Framingham. He was fired on by British soldiers as he was returning from the neighboring town, whither he had been to apprise the people of the approach of the \"regulars\" (so called), and slightly wounded in his side, but succeeded in making his escape by secreting himself in the house of a Mrs. Heywood. He died from dysentery on the third of the following Sept. 1775, at 26 years, 5 months, and 9 days of age.\"\n\nThe rapid warning of Revere, Dawes, and Samuel and Abel Prescott alerted the Minutemen of this region in time for them to engage the British Army at the Battles of Lexington and Concord.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096441", "title": "Truevision3D", "text": "Truevision3D\n\nTruevision3D is a commercial computer software 3D engine first created by Sylvain Dupont in 1999.\n\nThe Truevision3D (commonly abbreviated as TV3D) engine is written in Visual Basic 6 and C++ and layered on top of the Microsoft DirectX API, currently supporting DirectX version 8. The engine is accessible from a number of programming languages including C++, C#, Delphi and Visual Basic (6 and .NET). The current version of Truevision3D is 6.3. Version 6.5, currently in public pre-release and very stable, includes significant updates to the engine, including DirectX 9 and shader support, as well as being rewritten in 100% C++. There are no plans to support DirectX 10 or XNA until a new version is worked on (TV7).\n\nVersions 6.2 and 6.3 have issues with C++ support, it is not possible for example to make it work in certain compilers. Version 6.5 works with any language that can utilize COM, managed libraries, or static libs.\n\nThere is also a known issue between the version 6.3 on Windows Vista since it needs a dll from DirectX 8 which Vista does not have and it is contractually illegal to simply add it. Microsoft has been contacted regarding this issue but has not demonstrated in their forums any will to include the dll.\n\nVersion 6.5 is a complete development solution which includes 3D, Media, and Network Engines.\n\nIncluded with the SDK are multiple tools to help speed up development: a shader editor, model viewer, exporting plugins for various modeling software (3D Studio Max, Maya, and Milkshape 3D currently) and particle effects editors. Because version TV3D 6.5 no longer supports outdated mesh formats, many converters are also available. An official world or map editor is not currently planned because it hinders the end-user, since there is no way one editor can be used for every project this engine is used for. Furthermore, TV3D is a 3D engine, not a game engine, and an official editor would limit it too much. However, there are some user-created map editors available.\n\nTruevision3D is free to use as long as the user doesn't mind a logo in the corner of the rendering viewport. To remove the logo and publish a commercial project, a license needs to be acquired. Currently, the cost is $150 for a single-title license, $500 for a multi-title license. A source license can be purchased for an as yet undisclosed price.\n\n\n\"Features of SDK version 6.5 only\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Only present in 6.2 and 6.3 versions\"\n\n\n\n\"Only present in final 6.5 version\"\n\n\n\nTruevision3D began as a hobby project back in January 1999. Sylvain Dupont created a 3D engine in Visual Basic 6 with DirectX 7 & 8. With the later addition of Arli Mujkic and John Hart, Truevision3D, LLC. was formed to make TV3D a commercial product. Today, it has grown into a global company, supporting thousands of clients and community users.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096447", "title": "Rail Alphabet", "text": "Rail Alphabet\n\nRail Alphabet is a typeface designed by Jock Kinneir and Margaret Calvert for British Railways. First used at Liverpool Street station, it was then adopted by the Design Research Unit (DRU) as part of their comprehensive 1965 rebranding of the company.\n\nRail Alphabet is similar, but not identical, to a bold weight of Helvetica. It is not quite as similar to Akzidenz Grotesk or Arial. Akzidenz Grotesk had earlier also provided the same designers the broad inspiration for the Transport typeface used for all road signs in the United Kingdom. Rail Alphabet has different numerals than Helvetica. The 1 is more condensed and the 7 is straight completely. It is also slightly wider than Helvetica.\n\nIn 1949 the Railway Executive decided on standard types of signs to be used at all stations. Lettering was to use the Gill Sans typeface on a background of the regional colour. This style persisted for nearly 15 years.\n\nIn the early 1960s, British Rail trialled new signs at Coventry station that made use of Kinnier and Calvert's recently launched Transport typeface. While Transport has since been an enduring success on road signs, it was designed around the specific needs of the roadside environment - such as visibility at speed and in all weathers. The subsequent creation of Rail Alphabet was intended to provide a style of lettering more specifically suited to the station environment, where it would primarily be viewed indoors by pedestrians.\n\nThe Design Research Unit's 1965 rebranding of British Railways included a new logo (the double arrow), a shortened name British Rail, and the total adoption of Rail Alphabet for all lettering other than printed matter including station signage, trackside signs, fixed notices, signs inside trains and train liveries.\n\nKey elements of the rebranding were still being used during much of the 1980s and Rail Alphabet was also used as part of the livery of Sealink ships until that company's privatisation in the late 1980s. However, by the end of the 1980s, British Rail's various business units were developing their own individual brands and identities with use of Rail Alphabet declining as a consequence. The typeface remained in near-universal use for signs at railway stations but began to be replaced with alternatives in other areas, such as in InterCity's 1989 Mark 4 passenger carriages which made use of Frutiger for much of their interior signage.\n\nThe privatisation of British Rail from 1994 accelerated the decline in use of the typeface on the railway network with most of the privatised train operating companies who now manage individual stations choosing to use the fonts associated with their own corporate identities for station signs and publicity. More recently, the custom Brunel typeface introduced by Railtrack for signs at major stations and adapted by Network Rail as NR Brunel was recommended as a new national standard for station signs by a 2009 report commissioned by the Secretary of State for Transport, and was used extensively by South West Trains and East Midlands Trains. Meanwhile, Helvetica Medium has replaced Rail Alphabet as the industry's preferred typeface for safety notices within passenger trains due to the ready availability of the former and for consistency with British Standards on general safety signs.\n\nSome train operators continued use of Rail Alphabet long into the privatisation era. Arriva Trains Wales used the font until the end of the franchise in 2018, with First Great Western also making extensive use of Rail Alphabet for signage until the firm's rebranding to Great Western Railway in 2015. Merseyrail continues to use the typeface for station signage. Its use is also still prescribed for trackside warning signs and safety/operating notices.\n\nThe National Health Service in England, Scotland and Wales adopted Rail Alphabet for its signs. It is still the dominant typeface used on signs in older hospitals. It ceased to be used in new builds in the late 1990s. NHS England now uses Frutiger, while NHS Scotland uses Stone Sans.\n\nRail Alphabet was widely used on signs by the British Airports Authority and by Danish railway company DSB.\n\nIn 2009, a newly digitised version of the typeface was publicly released. Created by Henrik Kubel of A2/SW/HK in close collaboration with Margaret Calvert, New Rail Alphabet features six weights: off white, white, light, medium, bold and black, with non-aligning numerals, corresponding italics and a set of Eastern European characters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096458", "title": "Without Feathers", "text": "Without Feathers\n\nWithout Feathers (1975, ) is one of Woody Allen's best-known literary pieces. The book spent four months on the \"New York Times\" Best Seller List. The book is a collection of essays and also features two one act plays, \"Death\" and \"God\".\n\nThe title \"Without Feathers\" is a reference to Emily Dickinson's poem \"'Hope' Is the Thing with Feathers\", reflecting Woody Allen's neurotic sense of hopelessness. The Dickinson poem is mentioned in one of the stories in the collection.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096462", "title": "Kevin Ingram", "text": "Kevin Ingram\n\nKevin C. Ingram (born June 19, 1977) played in the Arena Football League as a wide receiver/defensive back for the Los Angeles Avengers.\n\nAt Harry S. Truman High School in Levittown, Pennsylvania, Kevin Ingram was a two-time All-League performer as both a wide receiver and defensive back in football. Ingram also earned All-League honors twice in basketball and once in baseball. Ingram has been inducted into the Harry S. Truman Hall of Fame.\n\nA two-time (1998–99) Associated Press \"Little\" All-America selection at West Chester (Pa.) University, Ingram holds the all-time school records for catches (235) and receiving yards (3,159). He is also second all-time in touchdown receptions (45) and points scored (278), and fifth in all-purpose yardage (3,507) for the Golden Rams. In 1999, Ingram was chosen as the PSAC East Player of the Year after making 82 catches for 1,050 yards and 16 touchdowns. Ingram holds a NCAA record for yards in a game with 401 yards on 13 catches.\n\nKevin Ingram, one of the Arena Football League's premier players, lead the Los Angeles Avenger's franchise in games played (98), receptions (536), all-purpose yards (9,523), kickoff return yards (2,871) and first downs (308). He also has made a significant contribution on defense during his seven-year Avenger career, ranking second in team history in both tackles (308.5) and interceptions (25). Ingram has returned three of his team-record 25 interceptions for touchdowns and also has scored three times as a kickoff returner and twice as a runner. In 2005, Ingram was honored with the AFL's most prestigious individual award when he was selected as the \"U.S. Army Ironman of the Year,\" which is given to the league's top two-way player. Ingram has returned three of his team-record 24 interceptions for touchdowns and also has scored three times as a kickoff returner and twice as a runner. \n\nIn 2008, Ingram caught 97 passes for 999 yards and 23 touchdowns. \n\nIn 2007, he caught 103 passes for 1,196 yards and 26 touchdowns in just 11 games. A fractured right thumb sidelined Ingram for five regular-season games. He averaged a career-high 142.7 all-purpose yards per game for the 2007 Avengers. In 2006, Ingram led Los Angeles in receiving with 111 catches for 1,354 yards and 32 touchdowns, which are all career highs. On the other side of the football, he had 47 tackles and a team-high five interceptions. On April 9, 2006, Ingram had a career-high four touchdown receptions at Kansas City. \n\nIn 2005, he was selected as the AFL's U.S. Army Ironman of the Year, after having an outstanding season in all phases of the game. On offense, Ingram led the team with 88 receptions for 1,052 yards and 23 touchdowns. Defensively, he led the Avengers with six interceptions and was second on the club with 68 tackles. In addition, Ingram led Los Angeles in kickoff returns and averaged a team-high 104.1 all-purpose yards per game. After that stellar performance, it was no surprise that he was named to the league's All-Arena first team and All-Ironman squads for the second consecutive season. Ingram was named the U.S. Army Ironman of the Game six times during the 2005 season. His most memorable game occurred on May 7, 2005, when he returned one of his three interceptions for a touchdown with 31 seconds remaining to lift the Avengers to a 54-42 victory at San Jose, which put Los Angeles in position to capture its first Western Division title. \n\nIn 2004, Ingram was also a strong candidate for \"U.S. Army Ironman of the Year\" honors after catching 67 passes for 848 yards and 22 touchdowns. He also led the 2004 Avengers in kickoff returns (50 for 956 yards) and tackles (76.5). In addition, Ingram tied for the team lead in interceptions with four. He was voted the \"Ironman of the Game\" five times in 2004, and was selected by the AFL as the \"Defensive Player of the Week\" after deflecting a pass with no time remaining to preserve a 62-55 victory over Las Vegas on Feb. 14, 2004. \n\nIngram also was a strong candidate for All-Arena and All-Ironman honors in 2003, before a fractured fibula cost him the final three games of the season. He wound up the 2003 campaign with 35 receptions for 355 yards and 10 touchdowns. Ingram also was second on the team with four interceptions and third in tackles with 43.5. He was voted the \"Ironman of the Game\" four times in 2003, and selected by the AFL as \"Ironman of the Week\" after he caught two touchdown passes, had an interception, a fumble recovery and five tackles in a victory over Grand Rapids on March 23. \n\nIngram started 13 games for the Avengers in 2002, finishing with 36 receptions for 389 yards and six touchdowns (third on the team in all three categories). On the defensive side, Ingram tied Greg Hopkins (who won the AFL \"Ironman of the Year\" award that year) for the team lead in interceptions with five. He had a breakout game and earned game \"M.V.P.\" honors on the road against the Toronto Phantoms on June 27, 2002, catching a team-high five passes for 92 yards and a touchdown, while also intercepting a pass in the last minute and returning it 49 yards for the game-winning score. As a rookie with the Indiana Firebirds in 2001, Ingram got caught in the shuffle behind two of the best receivers in league history (\"Touchdown\" Eddie Brown and Greg Hopkins). He was acquired by the Avengers in a trade on Dec. 10, 2001. He was named First Team All-Arena in 2004 and 2005. He was also named Second Team All-Arena in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096465", "title": "Yves Meyer", "text": "Yves Meyer\n\nYves F. Meyer (; born 19 July 1939) is a French mathematician. He is among the progenitors of wavelet theory, having proposed the Meyer wavelet. Meyer was awarded the Abel Prize in 2017.\n\nBorn in Paris to a Jewish family, Yves Meyer studied at the Lycée Carnot in Tunis; he won the French General Student Competition (Concours Général) in Mathematics, and was placed first in the entrance examination for the École Normale Supérieure in 1957. He obtained his Ph.D. in 1966, under the supervision of Jean-Pierre Kahane. His brother is the Mexican historian Jean Meyer.\n\nHe was teacher at the Prytanée national militaire (1960–1963), a teaching assistant at the Université de Strasbourg (1963–1966), a Professor at Université Paris-Sud (1966–1980), a Professor at École Polytechnique (1980–1986), a Professor at Université Paris-Dauphine (1985–1995), a Senior Researcher at the Centre national de la recherche scientifique (CNRS) (1995–1999), an Invited Professor at the Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers (2000), a Professor at École Normale Supérieure de Cachan (1999–2003), and has been a Professor Emeritus at Ecole Normale Supérieure de Cachan since 2004.\n\nHe was awarded the 2010 Gauss Prize for fundamental contributions to number theory, operator theory and harmonic analysis, and his pivotal role in the development of wavelets and multiresolution analysis. He also received the 2017 Abel Prize \"for his pivotal role in the development of the mathematical theory of wavelets.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096484", "title": "Bill Ritter (journalist)", "text": "Bill Ritter (journalist)\n\nBill Ritter (born February 26, 1950) is an American television news anchor and journalist. Bill Ritter was named co-anchor of WABC-TV New York's \"Eyewitness News\" at 6 p.m. in February 2001. Ritter, who has been the co-anchor of the 11 p.m. news since September 1999, is also a correspondent for the ABC News program \"20/20\". He started at \"Eyewitness News\" in the summer of 1998 as a weekend anchor.\n\nFor \"Eyewitness News\", Bill traveled to Israel the week before the start of the war in Iraq, to find out how Israelis and Palestinians were preparing for a possible military conflict 500 miles from their land.\n\nBill has investigated drug use among some teenage Orthodox Jews in Brooklyn, and looked into problems with the dramatic increase in the number of building scaffoldings in New York. Bill also covers fire safety and prevention for \"Eyewitness News\", and hosts the annual \"Operation 7 Save A Life\" a special and campaign. Bill has climbed the Empire State Building, tagging along with the man who repairs and replaces the broadcast antennas on top of one of New York's tallest skyscrapers. And, for the first time on live television, Bill was tested for prostate cancer. As part of the test, Bill also interviewed New York's most famous prostate cancer patient: former Mayor Rudy Giuliani.\n\nBill writes a daily column, \"Behind the News with Bill Ritter\", which previews the 11 pm edition of \"Eyewitness News\". It's sent via e-mail, and regularly offers insights into how we gather the news.\n\nPreviously, the Los Angeles native reported on the Rodney King trial and the subsequent Los Angeles riots for the Fox Television Network. From August 1991 through February 1992, Ritter also served as a reporter for the Fox Network's nationally syndicated show \"Entertainment Daily Journal\" (E.D.J.); and from February 1990 to August 1991 was an investigative reporter for KTTV-TV (Fox Television) in Los Angeles. He also was an anchor for the station's Gulf War coverage.\n\nWhile serving as a business, then investigative reporter for KNSD, the NBC affiliate in San Diego, from February 1987 to January 1990, Ritter, known for his white-collar crime investigations, captured four Emmy Awards. In 1989 he was honored for his investigative reporting in uncovering a local stock swindle, as well as for his \"overall journalistic enterprise.\"\n\nIn 1987, he also won in both of these categories, this time for his reports exposing a safety scandal involving killer whales and their trainers at San Diego's Sea World of California. Ritter also was named NBC Affiliate Reporter of the Year in 1987 and 1988.\n\nPrior to joining ABC, Ritter was a reporter for KCAL-TV, the former Disney-owned independent station in Los Angeles, from June to December 1992, where his \"Up Front\" segment headlined the station's successful 9 p.m. weeknight news broadcast, showcasing his perspective of the day's top national or international story.\n\nBefore joining \"Eyewitness News\", Bill worked at ABC News in January 1993 as co-anchor of \"Good Morning America Sunday\". Since then he has covered dozens of important news stories for \"Good Morning America\", including the crash of TWA Flight 800, the death of Princess Diana, the criminal and civil trials of O.J. Simpson, the aftermath of the Oklahoma City bombing and the devastating Midwest floods of 1997.\n\nRitter's feature reporting for \"GMA\" includes revealing interviews with boxers Mike Tyson and Evander Holyfield, golfers Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer, former evangelist Jim Bakker and \"Peanuts\" cartoonist Charles Schulz. He also contributed to \"GMA\"s series, which included in-depth looks at drugs and teenagers, the alarming increase in \"budget\" plastic surgeries and the emotional consequences of so-called \"blended\" or step families.\n\nFor \"20/20\", Ritter has reported stories that run the gamut from light-hearted to heart-warming to deadly serious. He investigated the claims of James Van Praagh, the supposed psychic who says he can talk to the dead; he covered the Columbine shootings; he investigated the phenomenon of patients waking up during surgery; he reported on \"slip and fall\" scams at casinos across the nation; he reported on a New York man who died while donating his kidney to his wife, whose family says the doctor left the O.R. before the surgery was completed; he examined the effects of parental anger on kids by having cameras in several homes for several weeks; he debunked the so-called urban legends that sprung up in the wake of September 11; and he followed a group of female Army recruits as they went through a grueling nine weeks of basic training.\n\nOn the lighter side, he has paraglided off an 11,000-foot mountain in Aspen, scaled a rock face in Jasper, Canada, \"posed\" as a bull-clown at a rodeo in Texas and was the first non-Barnum and Bailey employee to perform on a trapeze for that circus.\n\nIn September 1999, Ritter was officially named to co-anchor \"Eyewitness News\" 11pm broadcast with Sade Baderinwa and seventeen months later in February 2001 was added to co-anchor the 6pm edition of the newscast with Liz Cho. On September 13, 2019 Ritter was named the new co-anchor of the 5pm edition alongside Baderinwa, replacing Diana Williams who had retired from the station after 29 years and had her last broadcast the day before.\n\nRitter was born to a Jewish family. In 1972, he was expelled from San Diego State University for protesting the Vietnam War; at the time he was one semester short of graduating. At his daughter's suggestion 40 years later, he decided to complete his college education, receiving a degree from The New School on May 20, 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096485", "title": "Dispatch News Service", "text": "Dispatch News Service\n\nDispatch News Service International is the news agency founded in 1968 by young journalists Michael Morrow, Dan Derby, Emerson Manawis, and actor Richard Hughes. Other reporters that either actively joined the news agency as full-time reporters, contributors, writers, artists, photo journalists and/or stringers included John Steinbeck IV, John Everingham, Sean Flynn, Don Luce, Thomas C Fox, Steve Erhart, Crystal Erhart, Gareth Porter, J.L. Rivera, Christopher Beck, Jonathan Unger, Michael Berger, D.E. Ronk, Boris Baczynskj, David Boggett and many others.\n\nInitially focusing on in-depth reporting on the Vietnam War, DNS as it was commonly known, established its main operations in Saigon, South Vietnam. DNS had bureaus and/or representative offices in the following countries with its respective manager or representative: Taipei, Taiwan, Christine Lin; Vientiane, Laos, Crystal Eastin; Sydney, Australia, Richard Anderson, James Falk and Peter Viola; Hong Kong, Jacques Leslie; Macau, Stephen Thomas; and Bangkok, Thailand, Frank Sommerville.\n\nIn the United States, DNS had bureaus and/or representative offices in the following cities: San Francisco, Tom Donaldson and Kitty Wynn; Los Angeles, Steven Nichols, Sally Benson and Lynn, Shavelson; Boston, John Thompson; New York City, Richard Greenbaum; and Seattle, Peter Morrow.\n\nThe Washington, DC office was managed and directed by Dick Berliner, followed by Desmond McAllister, then David Obst and later Joe Gatins. Reporters traveled extensively throughout Southeast Asia, reporting from various capitals, but its focus remained the countries of Cambodia, Laos and Thailand.\n\nAmong the reporting distributed by DNS was Seymour Hersh's My Lai Massacre story. For his exclusive disclosure of the Vietnam War tragedy at the hamlet of My Lai, Hersh, as well as DNS, received the Pulitzer Prize for International Reporting in 1969.\n\nDispatch News Service International was incorporated in Manila, Philippines in 1968. The incorporators were Michael Morrow, Emerson Manawis, Mariano D. Manawis, Josefina A. Manawis and Emilie A. Manawis.\n"}
{"id": "2096489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096489", "title": "Massasauga", "text": "Massasauga\n\nThe massasauga (\"Sistrurus catenatus\") is a rattlesnake species found in midwestern North America from southern Ontario to northern Mexico and parts of the United States in between. Three subspecies are currently recognized including the nominate subspecies described here. Like all rattlesnakes, it is a pit viper, and like all pit vipers, it is venomous.\n\nAdults of \"S. catenatus\" are not large, ranging from in length. The color pattern consists of a grey or tan ground color with a row of large rounded brown/black blotches or spots down the center of the back and three smaller rows of alternating spots down each side. Solid black melanistic examples are also known, as well as cases where the back blotches join with those on the sides. Young massasauga are well-patterned but paler than the adults. It has heat-sensing pits on each side of its smallish head, the scales are keeled, and the anal scale is single.\n\nCommon names of the massasauga include: massasauga rattlesnake, massasauga rattler (Ontario), black massasauga, black rattler, black snapper, gray rattlesnake (Iowa), little grey rattlesnake (Canada), muck rattler, prairie rattlesnake, spotted rattler, swamp rattler, \"víbora de cascabel\" (Mexico), dwarf prairie rattlesnake, eastern massasauga great adder, ground rattlesnake, Kirtland's rattlesnake, little black rattlesnake, Michigan point rattler (Michigan), prairie massasauga, rattlesnake, small prairie rattlesnake, snapper, swamp massasauga, swamp rattlesnake, and triple-spotted rattlesnake.\n\nThe Native American word, \"massasauga\", means \"great river-mouth\" in the Ojibwe language and was probably given to describe grasslands surrounding the river deltas in Ojibwe country.\n\n\"S. catenatus\" is found in North America from Ontario, Canada and western New York southwest to southeastern Arizona in the United States and northern Tamaulipas, Mexico. In Mexico, isolated populations exist in southern Nuevo León, north-central Coahuila, and Samalayuca, Chihuahua. It occurs in various habitats ranging from swamps and marshes to grasslands, usually below 1500 m elevation. The type locality given is \"... on the prairies of the upper Missouri\" (Valley, USA).\n\nAccording to Campbell and Lamar (2004), a population also exists in southeastern Colorado that is morphologically somewhat intermediate between \"S. c. tergeminus\" and \"S. c. edwardsii\".\n\nThe species \"S. catenatus\" is classified as least concern (LC) on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Species are listed as such due to their wide distribution, presumed large population, or because they are unlikely to be declining fast enough to qualify for listing in a more threatened category. The population trend is unknown. The eastern massasauga has been listed as a candidate species on the United States Endangered Species Act since 1999.\n\nThe eastern massasauga is listed as an endangered species in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri (also considered extirpated), New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin. Michigan, the only state in which it is not considered endangered, lists it as \"special concern\". The subspecies is a candidate for federal listing. As of 2016, the massasauga is listed as Threatened under the Endangered Species Act.\n\nThe massasauga is listed as threatened under both Ontario's Endangered Species Act, 2007, and the federal Species at Risk Act, and is protected under the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act. It is found only near the eastern shore of Georgian Bay, the Bruce Peninsula, the North Shore of Lake Huron, Wainfleet Bog, and Ojibway Prairie. It is becoming rare in Canada due to persecution and loss of habitat and is designated as \"threatened\" by the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada (COSEWIC), as well as the Committee on the Status of Species-at-risk in Ontario (COSSARO).\n\nIn Pennsylvania, the species has experienced a rapid decline largely because of habitat loss. Historically, this has been due to human activity and more recently primarily from natural forest succession. By 1988, the snake had disappeared from half of the counties that constituted its historical range. A 2003–2005 survey showed only four locations in two counties with confirmed populations. It is classified as \"critically imperiled\" to \"imperiled\" in the commonwealth.\n\nThe diet of \"S. catenatus\" consists of a variety of small vertebrates, including mammals, lizards, and other snakes, as well as invertebrates such as centipedes. Mammals and reptiles make up the bulk of their diet. Adults feed mainly on rodents, while juveniles usually prey on reptiles, more often lizards in western populations and snakes in eastern ones. Frogs also constitute an important part of their diet: Ruthven (1928) mentioned that in Michigan they made up the main portion of their diet. According to Klauber (1956), \"S. catenatus\" feeds on frogs more frequently than any other rattlesnake. In general, however, frogs are not an important part of the diet, although this does seem to be more typical in certain northern and eastern populations.\n\nThe venom of \"S. c. catenatus\" is a cytotoxic venom that destroys tissue. It also contains specialized digestive enzymes that disrupt blood flow and prevent blood clotting. Severe internal bleeding causes the death of the small animals that this snake eats. After envenomation, the rattlesnake is able to withdraw from the dangers of sharp-toothed prey animals until they are subdued and even partially digested by the action of the venom.\n\n\"S. c. catenatus\" is rather shy and avoids humans when it can. Most massasauga snakebites in Ontario have occurred after people deliberately handled or accidentally stepped on one of these animals. Both of these scenarios can be prevented by avoiding hiking through areas of low visibility (in rattlesnake country) when not wearing shoes and long pants and by leaving the snakes alone if encountered. Only two incidents of people dying from massasauga rattlesnake bites in Ontario have been recorded; in both cases, the victims did not receive proper treatment. Recent studies indicate that Ontario hospitals in rattlesnake country often do not have antivenom, as massasauga-specific antivenom is not easy to acquire.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096492", "title": "William Cameron Townsend", "text": "William Cameron Townsend\n\nWilliam Cameron Townsend (July 9, 1896 – April 23, 1982) was a prominent twentieth-century American Christian missionary-linguist who founded Wycliffe Bible Translators and the Summer Institute of Linguistics (now SIL International), both of which have long had as primary emphases the translation of the Bible into minority languages and the development of literacy and bilingual education programs in those languages. They have also been involved in developing medical and other services among minority language groups.\n\nNot many sources report the details of William “Cam” Townsend before he began work as a foreign missionary. Born in 1896 in Southern California, Townsend graduated from Compton High School and attended Occidental College in Los Angeles, but dropped out to serve for several years as a Bible salesman for the \"Los Angeles Bible House\".\n\nUnder the auspices of the Los Angeles Bible House he sailed to Guatemala in 1917 to sell Spanish Bibles near Antigua. After two years he joined the \"Central American Mission\" (CAM), an evangelical Christian mission founded by some of the 19th century's more prominent Protestant revivalists who had agreed to divide their mission work in Central America into various regions. CAM taught that Jesus Christ's Millennial Kingdom of Peace would come after the Second Coming of Christ and viewed their mission as necessary to fulfill Christ's Great Commission to carry his message \"to the ends of the earth\" (Acts 1:8). Unlike his predecessors, Townsend did not deem social reform as a wasted effort. He was also concerned that CAM's Christian message, spread exclusively in Spanish, could not reach the monolingual majority of the indigenous population.\n\nTownsend settled in a Kaqchikel community on the coast called Santa Catarina, and over the next fourteen years learned the language to the point where he could translate the Bible. He also founded the \"Robinson Bible Institute\" which, with financial backing from U.S. sources, built a center for the indigenous community that included a school, medical clinic (supplied with effective western treatments for prevalent parasites like hookworm), an electrical generator, a coffee processing plant, and an agricultural supply store. During these years, Townsend's concern for the impoverished and excluded condition of the Latin American Indians grew, and he became convinced that the missionary practices he observed did not address the needs of indigenous people groups effectively, and did not take into account their diverse languages and cultures.\n\nAs Townsend sought the root causes of indigenous poverty and marginalization, he found them first in the mixed-race ‘ladino’ middlemen who acted as the sole economic and social portal to the broader regional and national society for mainly monolingual indigenous communities, and who were closely associated with a \"folk\" Catholic religion that was quite distinct from orthodox Catholicism. These elites had a vested interest in maintaining the economic and social status quo, and therefore had no desire to improve the Indians’ economic situation, educational level or degree of bilingualism.\n\nSecondly, Townsend, while valuing indigenous languages and cultures as divine creations, also believed that not all aspects of human culture were positive, including some of those found within Mesoamerican indigenous societies. Within them he found various types of oppression, some of which were similar to those the dominant Spanish culture imposed. Numerous saints required many days of festivals laden with the obligatory purchases and excessive consumption of food and alcohol, much of which needed to be purchased from the ladino middlemen. Modern healthcare was not available in most communities, which were served only by spiritualist ‘curers’ who required payment but often provided ineffective care. Townsend thus viewed the Maya who surrounded him as trapped from both within and without, and he searched for an exit strategy, a way to liberate them from the forces holding them back.\n\nTownsend viewed true conversion to Christ as the ultimate way out for indigenous peoples, but he had to first confront the question of why the current Protestant missions did not attract many indigenous converts, and why Catholic missions had failed to produce Christians who were more orthodox in their beliefs. The primary answer he found was that the illiterate monolinguals had no access to scripture. Many Indians could not read, and even those who could, did not have the Bible in a language they could understand. Although heterodox syncretism was the norm in indigenous communities, the Catholic clergy refused Bible translation, fearing negative exegesis. The Protestant missions concentrated on Spanish-speaking ladino overseers as converts instead of on the speakers of minority indigenous languages. According to Colby and Dennet (a less-than-objective and not very reliable source), Townsend's CAM superiors also showed signs of unease that he had adopted indigenous cultural practices, clothing, and language. \n\nIn the end, Townsend developed a philosophy of mission that sought to produce indigenous-run, self-sufficient, Bible-based Christian congregations. He believed that if this goal were achieved, it could also contribute to a positive restructuring of cultural institutions that could lead to a more just society. To promote that, he included various parallel programs alongside Bible translation to provide prerequisite knowledge and skills to indigenous communities. One very important step toward this goal was the development of groups of indigenous people who were literate, first in their own language and later in Spanish as well, and to help them produce a translation of at least the New Testament and key parts of the Old Testament in their native tongue. Townsend firmly believed that if the Christian Scriptures were well translated and well understood, they had the power to change individuals and society for the better. He often said that the Bible in the language of the people was the best missionary of all, because it never got sick, never took a furlough, and never sounded like a foreigner. \n\nTownsend realized that, in order to meet the goal of well-translated Scriptures, Bible translators needed to complete an in-depth study of descriptive linguistics. This emergent academic specialty, freshly invigorated by the first widespread publications of Edward Sapir (1921) and Leonard Bloomfield (1933) could provide Townsend's translator recruits with the deeper understanding of language they needed to do translation well. Having already used some of Sapir's insights in his analysis of Kaqchikel, Townsend understood the importance of linguistic theory in the training of those who would translate Scripture into many indigenous languages. Once given access to the rural communities, they would work with local language speakers to learn their language, produce an alphabet for that language, publish literature that preserved local stories, histories, folk tales and other aspects of the culture, develop literacy materials and set up literacy programs, help provide modern healthcare and supplies, and eventually complete Bible translation work. Translation and conversion thus would happen in the context of a series of developments in the society that would equip minority people groups to cope with the outside world more effectively.\n\nAs this Bible translation movement developed, Townsend moved from Guatemala to Mexico to Peru, with a special focus on the vast Amazon basin. For centuries the tribes of the Amazon had been evangelized by the Jesuits until their expulsion from the Portuguese empire in the late eighteenth century. It had been targeted by slave catchers, rubber tappers, and even some military operations. Many of the Amazonian indigenous groups remained elusive, always relying on the size and inhospitable nature of the terrain to fade away and maintain isolation. Townsend proposed using airplanes, and a radio network to contact and to stay connected with the isolated tribes, but the complexity and cost of such an operation baffled less technologically minded missionaries. In the opinion of some, individual Bible translations would be incredibly labor-intensive and reach only tiny populations there. Also, as mentioned, the concept of indigenous-run congregations in native tongues ran counter to the traditional practices of more traditional evangelical missionaries in Guatemala.\n\nSometime between 1931 and 1933 Townsend decided to move to Mexico as the initial operational theater instead of to the Amazon. The first piece fell into place in Panajachel, Guatemala, when he met by chance (or divine arrangement) with Moisés Sáenz, Mexican Under-Secretary of Education, who was vacationing and visiting rural schools. The two became friends. Sáenz left a letter expressing his commendation of Townsend's work in Guatemala and his offer to welcome him to Mexico. Sick with tuberculosis and convinced that there would be little support for his ideas in Guatemala, Townsend returned to the United States in 1932 and sought the help of L.L. Legters, the field secretary of the \"Pioneer Mission Agency\" and a trusted friend. At a prayer meeting in August 1933 “‘the Lord revealed his will for… Mr. WC Townsend of Guatemala to make a trip to Mexico City for the purpose of meeting with the government to get permission for sending men into the Indian tribes to learn the languages and to translate the Bible into those Indian tongues.’” Just two months later, a letter from Sáenz arrived urging the two men, Townsend and Legters, to visit Mexico.\n\nThe winning faction of the Mexican Revolution created the Constitution of 1917, which extended the anticlerical measures of the liberal Constitution of 1857 restricting the Catholic Church in Mexico. Townsend and Legters, however, entered Mexico without missionary credentials. Having cut all formal organizational ties, including those to the Central American Mission, the two men used Sáenz’s letter of invitation to cross the border and make their way to Mexico City. This instance represents the first of what later critical authors would view as ‘deceits,’ whereby the two men concealed their deeper goal behind a veil of government sanctity. In reality, the letter was the only basis they had to enter Mexico, and it had to be on a personal level, since SIL did not yet exist as an institution. There was no deceit, because Sáenz knew why Townsend wanted to come to Mexico. In this case, the goal of the anti-clerical 1917 Mexican constitution was to reduce the power of the Catholic Church in Mexico. By coming as lay people, without sacrificing or hiding their Christian beliefs, Townsend and Legters, in fact, acted in accordance with the law and its intent.\n\nThe second key to success in Mexico was Townsend's understanding of the importance of personal connections. His humility, warmth, keen willingness to serve others and also to ask others for help, opened doors to many important figures. During the first trip Townsend and Legters made contact with some friendly Americans and also Mexican officials in venues ranging from dinner parties to embassy lounges and while touring rural schools. Key among these was Rafael Ramírez, director of rural education in the Ministry of Public Education (SEP). Some critics have claimed that, cautious of rejection, Townsend only indirectly and subtly referenced the subjects of religion and Bible translation in his conversations, and thus left the officials enough room for plausible deniability. It is true that in legal documents signed between SIL and governments the translation of the Bible was sometimes officially stated somewhat indirectly as \"...the translation of literary works of high moral value\", but Townsend and others inside the Bible translation movement state that the officials signing the documents always knew exactly what that meant, so there was no deceit involved. Townsend always claimed that SIL was an academic institution that applied original linguistic research to the solution of human problems and to the creation of an indigenous literature that included both the collection and publication in written form of previously oral histories and stories and the translation of \"works of high moral value\", especially the Bible, but also often including the sections of national constitutions most relevant to indigenous rights, and later the translation of the U.N. Universal Declaration of Human Rights. He explained that, although SIL was not a religious institution per se, its members were lay Christians motivated by their faith to serve the minority language groups of the world. He was also far from circumspect in relating to secular dignitaries, often inviting them to read a passage from the Bible before sharing a meal.\n\nAs just one example, after being invited to Chapultepec Castle by Mexican President Lázaro Cárdenas for a dinner to honor him and his newly arrived linguists, Townsend reported saying to the president: \"I told him that our young people believed the Bible from cover to cover. They lived according to its teachings, which revealed to them God's love in sending His own Son to serve the needy and to save the lost. Our young people want to follow His example as well as they can by serving the Indians in practical ways, lending whatever assistance to the Mexican government they may and also translating that wonderful revelation of God to humanity into the Indian languages.\" It is difficult to see indirectness, subtlety or \"plausible deniability\" in that explanation of intention, given to the highest governmental authority in Mexico. \n\nThe fact that the non-sectarian SIL linguists cooperated with Catholics, Protestants and secularists alike, did not found churches themselves, did not occupy leadership positions in indigenous churches or perform any clerical functions, such as baptisms, marriages or funerals made categorizing them difficult. Even within SIL there was some debate as to whether they should define themselves as true \"missionaries\" or not. They were certainly not traditional sectarian missionaries, yet their vision included, among many other humanitarian goals, that of providing minority language communities with access to the Bible, and then trusting that the Christian Scriptures would bring about positive spiritual as well as material transformations in individuals and societies, a missionary-like goal.\n\nA third and final key to the organization's success in Mexico was the congruence of Townsend's philosophy and proposed plan with a body of intellectual thought that had already begun to circulate in the Mexican intelligentsia, called indigenismo. Many Mexican intellectuals had begun to believe in the gradual incorporation of indigenous cultures into the national society while still preserving those original cultures by applying the principles of cultural anthropology and linguistics. Advances in these fields of study would lead to more effective and respectful systems of cultural and linguistic integration (particularly through the use of bilingual education rather than the imposition of Spanish on minority language speakers at the elementary school level). The goals included the eventual incorporation of indigenous cultures within the national one, while still preserving cultural diversity. The great similarity between indigenismo and Townsend's philosophy of ministry was demonstrated by an extremely significant encounter in the plaza of the small Mexican village of Tetelcingo. \n\nOn January 21, 1936, President Lázaro Cárdenas, known for his extensive visitations to the countryside, paid a visit to a small town just south of Mexico City where Townsend had set up a project. We don't know all the reasons for this visit, and for the resulting friendship between the two men. Both men shared a singular concern for the well-being of the indigenous people of Mexico. Townsend's program, which combined “linguistic research, practical help, and spiritual guidance” perhaps meshed well with Cárdenas’ general preoccupation with educating indigenous people. Regardless of the possible reasons for the visit, the result was a deep and lasting friendship (Cárdenas was the best-man at Townsend's wedding) and a ringing written endorsement of Townsend's work from Mexico's revered President. The events of the previous twenty years of Townsend's life came to fruition at that meeting, which solidified the welcome his linguists received in Mexico for many years to come.\n\nTownsend and Legters had opened Camp Wycliffe in Arkansas in the summer of 1934. Named for John Wycliffe, who was responsible for the first complete English translation of the Bible, the camp was designed to train young people in basic linguistics and translation methods. That first year only two students enrolled. The following year, after a training session with five men in attendance (including Kenneth Pike who would become a lifelong friend and prominent academic linguist), Townsend took his students to Mexico to begin field work. Despite the warm welcome afforded the translators in Mexico, Townsend still dreamed of expanding the work into the Amazon and beyond. From this small beginning has grown the worldwide ministry of the Summer Institute of Linguistics (now called simply SIL International), Wycliffe Bible Translators (WBT), and the technical and logistics partner of SIL known as JAARS.\n\nKenneth Pike was the first SIL representative to visit Peru in late 1943. SIL signed a contract with the Peruvian Ministry of Education on June 28, 1945. Colby and Dennet, in a book based heavily on imaginative speculation and their own ideological assumptions, claim that in Peru and later expansions, Townsend “found [his] mission tailor-made to the needs of U.S. policymakers…American missionaries had always accompanied American businesses abroad, but the political climate in postwar Latin America gave Townsend’s new crop of missionary translators and educators a special appeal to U.S. ambassadors who were charged with securing markets and resources for the American economy.” However, as far as anyone has been able to discover, Townsend did not think at all in the way described by Colby and Dennet. His consuming focus was on serving God and minority language groups by means of education, applied linguistics and Bible translation. His interest in economics grew out of that and was directed almost exclusively at the local and regional levels. In Peru, he hoped that literacy, general education and technical training combined with the moral and ethical values taught in the Bible would help free minority language speakers from their dependence on outside middlemen, especially the jungle \"patrones\" who exploited the labor and land resources of the Amazonian peoples. His main excursion into the international economic arena was to write a short book (80 pages) in English explaining the abuses of international oil companies in Mexico and defending the Cardenas government's nationalization of them, the exact opposite political stance from the one Colby and Dennet attribute to Townsend's thought and work. (See W.C. Townsend, \"The Truth about Mexico's Oil\", 1940, SIL). Also counter to their claims, as far as we can discover, Townsend never coordinated anything with Nelson Rockefeller, and probably did not even know him. \n\nBy 1948 Townsend created the third important corporation tied to SIL: the Jungle Aviation and Radio Service. Until this point operations were held together shakily only by a jeep and several two-way radios provided by the U.S. Embassy. A U.S. Army Air Corp Mission pilot, Larry Montgomery, contacted Townsend in 1946, informing him that a Grumman Duck, a navy amphibious plane, was on sale as Army surplus for a cheap price. The plane proved its worth and even served as the sole rescue transport for a crashed Peruvian military plane in 1947, but also required a hefty additional investment to achieve all the potential that Townsend envisioned. Furthermore, a small fleet of planes would also require a hangar, runway, mechanics, more pilots, fuel, and parts. The missing piece was funding. Townsend sought money successfully by soliciting several wealthy evangelicals including the son and heir of Quaker Oats founder Henry P. Crowell. The project also received many smaller gifts from civic organizations, churches and individuals, and thus JAARS was born.\n\nTownsend remained active in SIL as the founder and organizational leader for many years. As he aged, his active influence gradually declined, however, under the influence of two general trends:\n\nFirst, the number of SIL members with graduate degrees in linguistics and anthropology steadily increased, with an accompanying rise in the overall academic levels of SIL linguists. Townsend was too busy leading a growing Bible translation movement to pursue graduate training himself, but he never forgot that SIL's translation goals necessitated in-depth scientific understanding of the languages that SIL linguists studied, and thus he endeavored to create truly competent field linguists with trustworthy academic credentials.\n\nDuring SIL's early years, linguistic theory and practice were still in the early stages of development, which made effective analysis of unwritten languages, especially tonal languages, more difficult. The rapid expansion of SIL, which required the training of large numbers of recruits, was also a great challenge to the organization. Fortunately, very early in its history, SIL was greatly helped by two gifted linguists, Kenneth Pike and Eugene Nida. They made significant contributions in the fields of linguistics, translation theory and even anthropology. Most importantly for SIL, they trained many generations of young SIL linguists, first at the University of Oklahoma and later at many other universities around the world. Nida was involved with SIL from its official founding in 1942, first attending and then teaching at Oklahoma each summer until 1953. Pike was involved even earlier and continued to train SIL linguists much longer, even during the time he was Chairman of the Department of Linguistics at the University of Michigan. He and many other SIL PhDs and MAs pursued the in-depth study of language and culture for its own sake, as well as for its usefulness in Bible translation. They, like Townsend, viewed language as one of God's greatest gifts to human beings. Hundreds of MAs and dozens of PhDs filled the upper tiers of SIL's academic hierarchy, and gradually influenced more and more the operations of the organization.\n\nSecond, a controversy, composed of two separate but related components, engulfed SIL between approximately 1971 and 1981. Firstly, according to Stoll, critics in the U.S., particularly in the halls of academia, left few facets of the Institute's work unscathed. Some even criticized the bringing of literacy to preliterate societies as harmful. However, the biggest negative reaction to SIL was probably triggered by opposition to its translation of the Bible. How could an academic organization justify translating a religious book for often preliterate people groups who had their own traditional religions? SIL's response was that it was just making the Bible accessible to anyone who might want to read it. Secondly, during the same period many foreign governments were criticized by politically motivated factions for cooperating so closely with SIL. Their criticisms of SIL ranged from the unfair and the unsubstantiated (like the claim that SIL was seeking raw materials for U.S. corporations) to the ridiculous (that it had killed indigenous babies to render their fat, so that it could be used as an ingredient in rocket fuel, explaining how the Americans had been able to land on the moon). The campaign was part of the Cold War struggle between the U.S. and the former Soviet Union, with SIL viewed as a symbol of the U.S. However, the charges caused governments to argue internally over whether to continue supporting SIL with state contracts and, in at least one case, whether to allow the SIL presence to continue within its borders. Ecuador, for example, chose to end its official ties with SIL. In Peru, the government, after an in-depth investigation of SIL, not only rescinded an order it had given for SIL to leave the country, but actually renewed and expanded its original contract for 10 additional years. In 1981, Peru's president, Fernando Belaunde Terry, gave William Cameron Townsend the highest award that a foreigner can receive from Peru, the most advanced level of the Order of the Sun (El Orden del Sol), in honor of his and SIL's service on behalf of Peru's minority language groups. It was an affirming conclusion that came near the end of the life of an itinerant Bible salesman who lived to become the friend of presidents, and the main catalyst for the largest Bible translation movement in history. He continued to serve as an advisor to SIL leaders and others until his death one year later, at age 85.\n\nThese sources could be used to substantiate and balance the article:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096506", "title": "Bignall Hill", "text": "Bignall Hill\n\nBignall Hill, Staffordshire is a local landmark, and forms part of an escarpment ridge north-west of Newcastle-under-Lyme. It is classed as a sub HuMP. There is a large stone monument on the summit which is dedicated to John Wedgwood (1760–1839), a former local employer and coal mine owner. Wedgwood's monument was initially an obelisk erected in 1850. Following storm damage in 1976 it was reduced to a quarter of its original size, although the base is still substantial. The monument is a Grade II listed building. The monument is today reachable by footpaths, and is the highest point in the area. It affords sweeping 360-degree views: south to Cannock Chase and the city of Stoke-on-Trent; north across the Cheshire Plains to Jodrell Bank radio telescope; east to Mow Cop Castle and the Peak District; and west to the mountains of North Wales and Snowdonia.\n\nBignall Hill is in the parish of Audley Rural. Around the base of the hill are the hamlets of Bignall End, Red Street and Waterhays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096512", "title": "Tom Dunn (journalist)", "text": "Tom Dunn (journalist)\n\nTom Dunn (May 1, 1929–July 2, 2006) was an anchor and reporter at several New York and Florida television stations. \n\nDunn was born in Warwick, New York, and was a child actor at radio station WAAT in Newark, New Jersey. He started in television at WCTV in Tallahassee, Florida in 1959 after leaving the army. He served as press secretary to U.S. Representative (and later Senator) Ed Gurney (R-FL), then worked as an anchor and reporter for WTVT in Tampa, Florida from 1962 to 1964 before moving to WCBS-TV where he worked from 1964 to 1968. Mr. Dunn served in that same role for WABC-TV from 1969–1970 and at WOR-TV from 1971–1987. Among his duties at WOR was anchoring the long-running \"News at Noon\". He later worked for WPTV-TV in West Palm Beach, where he did weekend evening and late night news until his retirement in the late 1990s. \n\nDunn died of esophageal cancer in Stuart, Florida on July 2, 2006. \n\nHis wife, Anna Dunn, reported that Richard Nixon asked Dunn to be his press secretary, but he turned down the position because he feared he might not be able to get back into television news if he took the job. Mr. Dunn was an avid sailor, skier, cooking enthusiast and voracious reader. Mr. Dunn also appeared in several motion pictures, including \"Turk 182\" and \"Without A Trace\".\n"}
{"id": "2096514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096514", "title": "Threads of Fate", "text": "Threads of Fate\n\nThreads of Fate, known in Japan as , is a 1999 action platform video game developed and published by Square for the PlayStation console. The game was released in Japan on October 14, 1999 and in North America on July 19, 2000, and was re-released on the PlayStation Network as a PSOne Classic in Japan on June 23, 2010 and in North America on April 19, 2011.\n\n\"Threads of Fate\" revolves around two characters, Rue and Mint, and their quest for a mystical object known only as \"the Relic\" that has the power to profoundly alter their lives. The game received favorable reviews and was re-released as part of Square Enix's \"Ultimate Hits\" label.\n\nPlayers choose from two different characters to control, each with a different story. The game environments are build in polygonal 3D, with a jump button and two action buttons which can trigger actions like an up or down sword slash. Any time that Rue destroys an enemy, a small token is left behind which the player can use to transform Rue into that creature. Mint fights enemies like a gymnast with a hoop weapon in each hand, and can also cast a variety of magic spells.\n\nThe two protagonists, Rue and Mint, both desire the Dewprism for different reasons; Rue wants to revive his dead partner Claire, while Mint, a princess, wanted to reclaim her right to the throne from her sister Maya. The stories take place in parallel, and players choose which of the two characters to play first.\n\nGame development began in March 1998. The title was hard to decide upon, and for a year the development team tried to find a word to add “prism” to the end of. On the directors 24th birthday on January 18th, 1999, they decided on ‘’Dewprism’’. Executives at Square initially rejected the name, but over time they were convinced to use it.\n\nThe game was announced in March 1999 in Weekly Famitsu as ‘’Dewprism’’, and was to be developed by the teams that created ‘’Secret of Mana’’ and ‘’Xenogears’’. ’’Dewprism’’ was expected to launch in Japan in the summer of 1999 as a “packed-in demo” with ‘’Legend of Mana’’, with the games full release that fall.\n\nThis was Yoji Sugimoto‘s first game that he directed. Sugimoto claims he was chosen because he is bad at action games, and the developer wanted to make a game that was easier than most. The focus was on a game that was for children, that were inspired by imagination and dreams. This came from working on ‘’Xenogears’’, with its vast story and gameplay complexity, Sugimoto was concerned the next generation of gamers would not have games to start with. And because of his programming background, he says he was excited to work on a game with fully 3D characters and world, since so few games were doing that at the time, opting for either 3D characters and 2D backgrounds, or 3D backgrounds and 2D characters. \n\nThe games design was rooted in the idea of playing two stories that take place in the same time and location, but playing with another character whose motivations and thoughts are unknown to you unless you play the other story. Mints character was not always intended to be as “carefree” as she is in the game, but the developers liked her that way, and the design stuck. Mint was originally intended to be the main character in order to target the game at a young female audience, but when the idea expanded to include a male character, the idea of two stories sharing the same world was conceived.\n\nSugimoto liked the illustrations of Usui and Terada from ‘’ Xenogears’’, and as a result he had them do game art illustrations for ‘’Dewprism’’. Many actions were also designed to be a simple button press to keep the game at an easy difficulty level. Sugimoto’s battle director had always wanted a games protagonist to be able to transform into a monster with a coin, and this became Rue’s battle style. Sugimoto also guided the team away from traditional fantasy tropes like dark dungeons and scary music and insisted on “brighter themes”.\n\nThe game utilized no pre-rendered movies; instead, the game was initially intended to feature full 3D polygon graphics, and this concept was looked at in test animations. \n\nThere was supposedly a sequel in development featuring Princess Mint and her younger sister Maya as a playable character. Executives at Square, however, turned down the idea.\n\nA manga based on the game was planned to be made by Ken Akamatsu of \"Love Hina\" fame, but the project was scrapped. Many of his character designs would later be redesigned and used in Akamatsu's \"\".\n\nThe music of \"Threads of Fate\" is composed by Junya Nakano, who has worked on several other games for Square. Nakano described how she gained “great experience” working on the game, and how the music she composed for \"Final Fantasy X\" would have been very different without it. Hidenori Iwasaki did the score's synthesizer programming. A soundtrack was released in Japan (titled \"Dewprism OST\") and was available via import for several years in other countries. The soundtrack, though discontinued and out of print, was recently given a re-print in August 2006.\n\nThe OST has two discs, Disc RUE and Disc MINT, featuring all of the tracks played throughout the game. The tracks are divided between the discs according to which character they fit best. Much of the mellower music is contained on Rue's disc, with a fairly small selection of 'happy' tracks or battle tracks, while Mint's disc contains almost all of the more intrusive tracks, the happier tracks, and several battle themes.\nSongs from the game were released on the \"Square Enix\" music album \"Café Square\".\n\nOn May 4, 2010 Square Enix announced \"Threads of Fate\" would be released for PlayStation Network. It was released on June 23, 2010 on the Japanese Store.\n\nOn December 29, 2010 Square Enix announced \"Threads of Fate\" would also be released for the PlayStation Network in North America. It was released on April 19, 2011; however, this was one day before the PlayStation Network outage, and thus it was not widely available until June 2, 2011, when the network was restored.\n\n\"Threads of Fate\" received \"favorable\" reviews according to video game review aggregator GameRankings. The game sold over 111,000 copies in Japan by the end of 1999. The game was re-released in 2007 under Square Enix's “Legendary Hits” label in Japan.\n\nSamuel Bass reviewed the PlayStation version of the game for \"Next Generation\", calling the game \"Gorgeous, engaging and a whole lot of fun, but perhaps a little too action-oriented for more cerebral RPG fans.\" \"GameSpot\" described the graphics as “simple yet striking” as well as colorful possessing visual flair, though the game was called too short. \"Game Revolution\" said the game was “not a classic”, with the need for many precision jumps and an uninspiring plot. \"GamePro\" enjoyed the games platforming and RPG hybrid gameplay, but thought that the “levels were boring to look at and blandly designed“. \"AllGame\" liked the soundtrack, though noting it was not very memorable, and praised the sound effects as well done. \"IGN\" greatly praised the games graphics, cheerful charm, translations, and variety of gameplay options, though noting the game was not very complex.\n"}
{"id": "2096519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096519", "title": "Hand truck", "text": "Hand truck\n\nA hand truck, also known as a two wheeler, stack truck, trundler, box cart, sack barrow, cart, dolly, sack truck, or bag barrow, is an L-shaped box-moving handcart with handles at one end, wheels at the base, with a small ledge to set objects on, flat against the floor when the hand-truck is upright. The objects to be moved are tilted forward, the ledge is inserted underneath them, and the objects allowed to tilt back and rest on the ledge. The truck and object are then tilted backward until the weight is balanced over the large wheels, making otherwise bulky and heavy objects easier to move. It is a first-class lever.\n\nSack trucks were originally used in the 18th century to move large sacks of spices on docks by young boys, from the age of 11, who were unable to lift the large sacks by hand. By using this method they were able to work as well as grown men in moving items around. Later, such trucks were amended for use in many different industries, such as brewing, where hops were moved in sacks.\n\nSome hand trucks are equipped with stairclimber wheels, which, as the name implies, are designed to go up and down stairs. These stair climbing hand trucks have three wheels on each side that are always in contact with stairs for added stability. Stairclimber wheels can sometimes be problematic when trying to turn on flat ground as four wheels in a fixed position will be in contact with the ground.\n\nHand trucks are fabricated from many different types of materials, including steel tube, aluminum tube, aluminum extrusion and high impact plastics. Most commercial hand trucks used for beverage and food service deliveries are rugged and very light. They are usually constructed from two extruded aluminum channel side rails and cast aluminum or magnesium parts.\n\nSome of the options that may be considered are the types of wheels, stair climber, handle type and size of wheels.\n\nOther things to be considered should be the load shape compared with the backrest shape, \"e.g.\", cylindrical loads should sit on curved backrests, and the environmental conditions in which the hand truck will operate. For example, on loose or uneven ground oversize wheels are a great advantage; solid or puncture-proof foam filled tires may be used where punctures could deflate pneumatic tires.\n\nA rule of thumb is that the toe or nose of the truck should be at least one-third of the length of the load.\n\nHand trucks are sometimes used as baggage carts by porters in train stations and skycaps at airports.\n\nA piano tilter is a type of hand truck for moving an upright piano without damaging it. Unlike a traditional dolly, which pivots around a smaller wheel or point, the piano tilter has large curved sections to gently tilt an upright piano until it is lying flat on its back.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096531", "title": "Harry Langdon", "text": "Harry Langdon\n\nHarry Philmore Langdon (June 15, 1884 – December 22, 1944) was an American comedian who appeared in vaudeville, silent films (where he had his greatest fame), and talkies. \n\nBorn in Council Bluffs, Iowa, Langdon began working in medicine shows and stock companies while in his teens. In 1906, he entered vaudeville with his first wife, Rose Langdon. By 1915, he had developed a sketch named \"Johnny's New Car,\" on which he performed variations in the years that followed. In 1923, he joined Principal Pictures Corporation, a company headed by producer Sol Lesser. He eventually went to The Mack Sennett Studios, where he became a major star. At the height of his film career, he was considered one of the four best comics of the silent film era. His screen character was that of a wide-eyed, childlike man with an innocent's understanding of the world and the people in it. He was a first-class pantomimist. \n\nMost of Langdon's 1920s work was produced at the famous Mack Sennett studio. His screen character was unique and his antics so different from the broad Sennett slapstick that he soon had a following. Success led him into feature films, directed by Arthur Ripley and Frank Capra. With such directors guiding him, Langdon's work rivaled that of Charlie Chaplin, Harold Lloyd, and Buster Keaton. Many consider his best films to be \"The Strong Man\" (1926), \"Tramp, Tramp, Tramp\" (1926), and \"Long Pants\" (1927). Langdon acted as producer on these features, which were made for his own company, The Harry Langdon Corporation, and released by First National. After his initial success, he fired Frank Capra and directed his own films, including \"Three's a Crowd\", \"The Chaser\", and \"Heart Trouble\", but his appeal faded. These films were more personal and idiosyncratic, and audiences of the period were not interested. Capra later claimed that Langdon's decline stemmed from the fact that, unlike the other great silent comics, he never fully understood what made his own film character successful. However, Langdon's biographer Bill Schelly, among others, have expressed skepticism about this claim, arguing that Langdon had established his character in vaudeville long before he entered movies, added by the fact that he wrote most of his own material during his stage years. History shows that Langdon's greatest success was while being directed by Capra, and once he took hold of his own destiny, his original film comedy persona dropped sharply in popularity with audiences. This is likely not due to Langdon's material, which he had always written himself, but due to his inexperience with the many fine points of directing, at which Capra excelled, but at which Langdon was a novice. On the other hand, a look at Langdon's filmography shows that Capra directed only two of Langdon's 30 silent comedies. His last silent film, and the last one Langdon directed, \"Heart Trouble\", is a \"lost film\", so it is difficult to assess whether he might have begun achieving a greater understanding of the directorial process with more experience. The coming of sound, and the drastic changes in cinema, also thwarted Langdon's chances of evolving as a director and perhaps defining a style that might have enjoyed greater box office success.\n\nLangdon's babyish character did not adapt well to sound films; as producer Hal Roach remarked, \"He was not so funny articulate\" (he featured Langdon in several unsuccessful sound shorts in 1929–1930). But Langdon was a big enough name to command leads in short subjects for Educational Pictures and Columbia Pictures. In 1938, he adopted a Caspar Milquetoast-type, henpecked-husband character that served him well. Langdon continued to work steadily in low-budget features and shorts into the 1940s, playing mild-mannered goofs. He also contributed to comedy scripts as a writer, notably for Laurel and Hardy, which led to him being paired with Oliver Hardy in a 1939 film titled \"Zenobia\" during a period when Stan Laurel was in a bitter contract dispute with Roach.\n\nLangdon was considered to be the live-action role model for Dopey in \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\", but Walt Disney rejected the idea. Eddie Collins played the role instead.\n\nHarry Langdon kept busy in pictures and completed his final Columbia short \"Pistol Packin' Nitwits\" only weeks before his death of a cerebral hemorrhage on December 22, 1944. All funeral arrangements were handled by onscreen cohort and friend Vernon Dent. Langdon was cremated and his ashes interred at Grand View Memorial Park Cemetery in Glendale, California.\n\nAt the height of his career, Langdon was making $7,500 per week, a fortune for the times. Upon his death, \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"His whole appeal was a consummate ability to look inexpressibly forlorn when confronted with manifold misfortunes—usually of the domestic type. He was what was known as 'dead-pan'...the feeble smile and owlish blink which had become his stock-in-trade caught on in a big way, and he skyrocketed to fame and fortune...\"\n\nIn 1997, his hometown of Council Bluffs celebrated \"Harry Langdon Day\" and in 1999 named Harry Langdon Boulevard in his honor. For his contribution to the motion picture industry, Harry Langdon has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6925 Hollywood Boulevard. \n\nLangdon is briefly depicted in the Biographical film, \"Stan & Ollie\", played by Richard Cant, where he is preparing for the shooting of \"Zenobia\" with Oliver Hardy.\n\n† – denotes entry part of the Columbia Pictures short subject series\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096537", "title": "Bren Events Center", "text": "Bren Events Center\n\nThe Donald Bren Events Center, commonly known as the Bren Events Center or the Bren, is a 6,000-seat indoor arena on the campus of the University of California, Irvine, in Irvine, California, United States.\n\nIt was conceived and planned in 1981, with the passage of a student referendum authorizing an assessment of $23 per student per quarter as of winter 1987. It opened January 8, 1987 with UCI Men’s Basketball vs. Utah State. Parkin Architects Limited served as the architects for the building, which was renamed \"Donald Bren Events Center\" in 1988. The University of California, Irvine renamed the structure in honor of real estate mogul and chairman of the Irvine Company, Donald Bren, upon receipt of a $1.5 million donation.\n\nIt is a 65,000 assignable (90,000 gross) square-foot multi-purpose facility servicing the University and all of southern California. It features a arena which hosts UCI Anteater Basketball, volleyball and serves as a general assembly space for special events. Additional conference and meeting spaces are available to support arena events and to host small meetings. In addition, it provides:\n\n\nIt serves as the home to UC Irvine Anteaters athletic programs. Men's basketball, women's basketball, and men's volleyball all play their home games at Bren.\n\nThe facility was home to the 1990, 1991 and 1992 U.S. Open Badminton Championships.\n\nIt is also used for concerts, trade fairs, conventions, Broadway shows and graduation ceremonies.\n\nRecent examples of usage include hosting Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama, when he spoke in 2004, while Jimmy Carter spoke and answered questions about his book \"\" on 3 May 2007. Bill Clinton spoke at a campaign rally for local Democratic candidates in 2012.\n\nTNA Wrestling also held its 2009 Bound For Glory Event here.\n\nBlink-182 headlined a sold out show at the Bren in 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096542", "title": "Patsy Kelly", "text": "Patsy Kelly\n\nPatsy Kelly (January 12, 1910 – September 24, 1981) was an American actress. She is known for her role as the brash, wisecracking sidekick to Thelma Todd in a series of short comedy films produced by Hal Roach in the 1930s. Known as the Queen of Wisecracks, Kelly's career continued after Todd's death in 1935 in similar roles.\n\nAfter her film career declined in the mid-1940s, Kelly returned to New York where she worked in radio and summer stock. She also became a lifelong friend and personal assistant of Tallulah Bankhead. Kelly returned to the screen after 17 years with guest spots on television and in film roles.\n\nIn 1971, Kelly returned to the stage in the revival of \"No, No, Nanette\" for which she won a Tony Award. She continued appearing in film and television roles until she suffered a stroke in January 1980 that limited her ability to speak. Kelly died of cancer in 1981.\n\nKelly was born Sarah Veronica Rose Kelly in Brooklyn to Irish immigrants parents John (died 1942) and Delia Kelly (1875-1930). She began her career in vaudeville as a dancer at the age of 12. She performed in Frank Fay's act, first in a song-and-dance routine and later as Fay's comic foil. In one routine, Kelly told Fay and the audience that she had been at the beauty parlor. Fay remarked, \"And they didn't wait on you?\" She remained with Fay for several seasons until Fay eventually dismissed her.\n\nKelly made her Broadway debut in 1928. In 1930 and 1931, she performed for producer Earl Carroll in his \"Sketches\" and \"Vanities\" musicals.\n\nKelly made her screen debut in a Vitaphone short subject filmed there. In 1933 producer Hal Roach hired Kelly to co-star with Thelma Todd in a series of short-subject comedies. The Todd-Kelly shorts cemented Kelly's image: a brash, wisecracking woman who frequently punctured the pomposity of other characters. Later entries in the series showcased Kelly's dancing skills. Kelly made 35 shorts with Todd before Todd died in 1935. Lyda Roberti replaced Todd, but died of heart failure in 1938.\n\nAfter the popularity of shorts began to wane, Kelly moved to full-length feature films, often playing working-class character roles in comedies and musicals. One of her memorable roles was as Etta, the cook, in the five Academy Awards-nominated 1938 comedy movie \"Merrily We Live\".\n\nBy 1943, Kelly's film career had begun to decline. She appeared in films for Producers Releasing Corporation, the smallest and cheapest of the movie studios. Her last starring roles were in two PRC comedies, \"My Son, the Hero\" and \"Danger! Women at Work\", both released in 1943. Kelly left Hollywood and would not make another film for 17 years.\n\nAfter leaving Hollywood, Kelly returned to New York City where she worked in radio and did summer stock. She also worked as a personal assistant to Tallulah Bankhead.\n\nKelly returned to the screen in the 1950s with television and sporadic film roles. On television she appeared in guest roles on \"26 Men\", \"Kraft Television Theatre\", \"The Man from U.N.C.L.E\", \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\", \"The Wild Wild West\", and \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\", as well as many unsold pilots. She also made a memorable appearance as Laura-Louise in the film thriller \"Rosemary's Baby\" (1968), directed by Roman Polanski, alongside veteran actors Sidney Blackmer, Ruth Gordon, and Maurice Evans.\n\nShe returned to Broadway in 1971 in the revival of \"No, No, Nanette\" with fellow hoofers Ruby Keeler and Helen Gallagher. Kelly scored a huge success as the wisecracking, tap-dancing maid, and won Broadway's 1971 Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Musical for her performance in the show. She matched that success the following year when she starred in \"Irene\" with Debbie Reynolds, and was again nominated for a Tony.\n\nIn 1976, she appeared as the housekeeper Mrs. Schmauss in the Walt Disney film \"Freaky Friday\" starring Jodie Foster and Barbara Harris. Her last role in a feature film was in another comedy for Disney, \"The North Avenue Irregulars\" (1979), also co-starring Harris, along with Cloris Leachman, Edward Herrmann and Karen Valentine. Kelly's final onscreen appearance was a guest spot in a two-part episode of \"The Love Boat\" in 1979.\n\nKelly was openly gay. She publicly disclosed to being a \"dyke\" during the 1930s, when she disclosed to \"Motion Picture\" magazine she had been living with actress Wilma Cox for several years and had no intention of getting married. She later confirmed that she had an affair with Tallulah Bankhead when she worked as Bankhead's personal assistant.\n\nIn August 1933, Kelly was injured as a passenger in a car driven by Gene Malin, the prominent drag performer. Malin apparently confused the gears and reversed off a pier into the water, after leaving a club in Venice, Los Angeles. Kelly suffered serious injuries.\n\nIn January 1980, Kelly suffered a stroke while in San Francisco that caused her to lose the ability to speak. She was admitted to Englewood Nursing Home in Englewood, New Jersey, on the advice of her old friend Ruby Keeler where she underwent therapy.\n\nOn September 24, 1981, Kelly died of cancer at the Motion Picture & Television Country House and Hospital in Woodland Hills, California. She is interred alongside her parents, John and Delia Kelly, in Calvary Cemetery in Queens, New York .\n\nFor her contribution to the motion picture industry, she has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6669 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096548", "title": "Wheeler &amp; Woolsey", "text": "Wheeler &amp; Woolsey\n\nWheeler & Woolsey were an American vaudeville comedy double act who performed together in comedy films from the late 1920s. The team comprised Bert Wheeler (1895–1968) of New Jersey and Robert Woolsey (1888–1938) of California.\n\nThe Broadway theatre performers were initially teamed as the comedy relief for the 1927 Broadway musical \"Rio Rita\", and came to Hollywood to reprise these roles for the film version. The film's success convinced them to become a permanent team, and they continued to make very popular comedy feature films from 1930 until 1937, all for RKO Radio Pictures—except the 1933 Columbia Pictures release \"So This Is Africa\" (which was made during a contract dispute with RKO).\nCurly-haired Bert Wheeler played an ever-smiling innocent, who was easily led and not very bright, but who would also sometimes display a stubborn streak of conscience. Bespectacled Robert Woolsey played a genially leering, cigar-smoking, fast-talking idea man who often got the pair in trouble. The vivacious Dorothy Lee usually played Bert's romantic interest.\n\nThe Wheeler & Woolsey movies are loaded with joke-book dialogue, original songs, puns, and sometimes racy double-entendre gags:\n\nWOMAN (coyly indicating her legs): Were you looking at these?<br>\nWOOLSEY: Madam, I'm above that.\n\nWOOLSEY (worried about a noblewoman): She's liable to have us beheaded.<br>\nWHEELER: Beheaded?! Can she do that?<br>\nWOOLSEY: Sure, she can be-head. (i.e., \"She can be had.\")\n\nFLIRT: Sing to me!<br>\nWHEELER: How about \"One Hour with You\"?<br>\nFLIRT: Sure! But first, sing to me!\n\nSuch double-entendre gags were a hallmark of early W&W comedies, although they were severely curtailed after the reconstitution of the Production Code in 1934. Dressing in drag and other forms of gender inversion were also staples of their films.\nBy 1931 Wheeler & Woolsey were so popular that RKO attempted to generate twice the Wheeler & Woolsey income by making two solo pictures—one with Wheeler (\"Too Many Crooks\") and one with Woolsey (\"Everything's Rosie\"). This experiment failed, and they returned to performing as a team. Among the team's features are \"The Cuckoos\" (based on Clark and McCullough's Broadway show \"The Ramblers\"), \"Caught Plastered\", \"Peach O'Reno\", \"Diplomaniacs\", and \"Hips Hips Hooray\" and \"Cockeyed Cavaliers\" (both 1934, both co-starring Thelma Todd and Dorothy Lee, and both directed by Mark Sandrich just before he was promoted to the Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers musicals). Sandrich was replaced by George Stevens.\nAfter Stevens left the series, the team faltered. In some of these later films Bert and Bob don't even appear as a team, but as strangers who encounter each other by chance. Woolsey's health deteriorated in 1936, and after struggling to complete \"High Flyers\" in 1937, he was no longer able to work; he died of kidney disease on October 31, 1938, ending the partnership.\n\nIn the early 1940s, after Woolsey had died, Wheeler struggled to restart his career and asked Dorothy Lee to tour with him in vaudeville. She agreed to help her old friend.\n\nIn 1945, Wheeler headlined briefly with Jackie Gleason at Slapsy Maxie's, and would later appear on Gleason's \"Cavalcade of Stars\" TV program.\n\nWheeler continued to work off and on through the 1960s. His later appearances were mostly on television; his last theatrical films were two slapstick shorts for Columbia Pictures, filmed in 1950 and produced by Jules White. In 1955 Wheeler co-starred with Keith Larsen in the CBS western series \"Brave Eagle\"; Wheeler played the halfbreed Smokey Joe, known for his tall tales and tribal wisdom.\n\nWheeler also starred with John Raitt and Anne Jeffreys in the Broadway musical \"Three Wishes for Jamie\" in 1952, and continued to perform in summer stock theater and in nightclubs, either alone or with a partner (first writer-comedian Hank Ladd, later comedian-singer Tom Dillon).\n\nThe duo, although largely forgotten now, were at the peak of their careers in the 1930s and were the biggest inspiration to the British team of Morecambe and Wise.\n\nNine of the 21 movies the duo made together were released in a DVD collection entitled \"Wheeler & Woolsey: RKO Comedy Classics Collection\" in March 2013 by Warner Archive. \"Rio Rita\" made its way to DVD in February 2006. \"Girl Crazy\" and \"Peach O'Reno\" were released as a two disc set in December 2010. Four additional W&W films were released individually through the Warner Archive in May 2012: \"The Rainmakers\"; \"Diplomaniacs\"; \"On Again-Off Again\"; and \"Kentucky Kernels\".\n\nWarner Archives released the \"RKO Comedy Classics Collection Vol. 2\" in October 2016. This includes the following 6 films: \"Too Many Cooks\"; \"Everything's Rosie\"; \"Dixiana\"; \"The Cuckoos\"; \"Cockeyed Cavaliers\"; and \"Silly Billies\".\n\n\"So This Is Africa has\" yet to be released on DVD.\n\nThree films have fallen into the Public Domain \"(Dixiana,\" \"Half Shot at Sunrise,\" and \"Hook, Line and Sinker). Dixiana\" was first made available on DVD in its complete version (including the Technicolor sequence) by the Roan Group (currently distributed through Troma) after was able to locate color elements. This release suffers from problematic framing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096550", "title": "Neil Young (politician)", "text": "Neil Young (politician)\n\nNeil Young (August 28, 1936 – March 7, 2015) was a Canadian politician. He was a New Democratic member of the Canadian parliament from 1980 to 1993. He represented the downtown Toronto ridings of Beaches and Beaches-Woodbine.\n\nYoung was born in Edinburgh, Scotland in 1936. He emigrated to Canada in the 1950s and worked as a machinist in the electrical industry. He later became an organizer for the United Electrical Workers Union. After leaving politics he worked as a consultant on people with disabilities. He and his wife Vivien raised four children. He died on March 7, 2015 in Toronto.\n\nHe ran unsuccessfully for Toronto City Council's Ward 9 in 1976. He came in 6th place behind winners Pat Sheppard and Tom Wardle Jr. In a closely contested nomination race, he won the NDP nomination for the Beaches federal electoral district by two votes in 1977. In the federal election of 1979 he lost narrowly to Progressive Conservative candidate Robin Richardson by 518 votes. The PC's won and Richardson served in the short lived Joe Clark minority government. In 1980, Young faced Richardson again, this time defeating him by 1,496 votes. He represented the electoral districts of Beaches from 1980 to 1988, and Beaches—Woodbine from 1988 to 1993, in the House of Commons of Canada as a member of the New Democratic Party (NDP). Young served as the NDP critic on several portfolios such as pensions and veteran's affairs. He was the party's whip from 1981 to 1984.\n\nHe was defeated in the 1993 election by Liberal Party of Canada candidate Maria Minna.\n"}
{"id": "2096554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096554", "title": "List of endemic birds of the Philippines", "text": "List of endemic birds of the Philippines\n\nThis article is one of a series providing information about endemism among birds in the world's various zoogeographic zones. For an overview of this subject see Endemism in birds.\n\nThe Philippines has a single endemic family, the Philippine creepers, Rhabdornithidae, containing three species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096560", "title": "Ministers and Secretaries Acts", "text": "Ministers and Secretaries Acts\n\nThe Ministers and Secretaries Acts 1924 to 2017 is the legislation which governs the appointment of ministers to the Government of Ireland and the allocation of functions between departments of state. It is subject in particular to the provisions of Article 28 of the Constitution of Ireland. The Acts allow for the appointment of between 7 and 15 Ministers of Government across 17 Departments, and for the appointment of up to 20 junior ministers, titled Ministers of State to assist the Ministers of Government in their powers and duties.\n\nThe principal act is the \"Ministers and Secretaries Act 1924\" and was one of the key statutes enacted by the Irish Free State. The Constitution of the Irish Free State in 1922 had provided for the formation of a cabinet called the Executive Council. The 1924 Act formally defined the government departments that were to exist in the Free State, created their titles and outlined their responsibilities. The Act has been amended and affected by subsequent legislation which may be cited together and construed as one Act. The names and functions of departments have changed frequently by secondary legislation. Although the \"secretaries\" created by the 1924 Act were later replaced by ministers of state, as amendments to the principal Act, subsequent legislation changing the structures of government departments have continued to use the title \"Ministers and Secretaries Act\".\n\nFrom 1801 to 1922, Ireland had been governed as part of the United Kingdom. The legal government of Ireland was an executive and Privy Council of Ireland under the British Lord Lieutenant of Ireland; in practice, the Dublin Castle administration was run by the Chief Secretary for Ireland.\n\nAfter the 1918 general election, MPs elected for Sinn Féin established the extrajudicial Dáil Éireann (House of Assembly) in January 1919 and made a unilateral declaration of independence of the Irish Republic. This operated without external recognition under the terms of the Dáil Constitution. Its executive, the Ministry of Dáil Éireann, was headed by the President of Dáil Éireann. In January 1922, a majority of the Dáil accepted the terms of the Anglo-Irish Treaty which agreed the terms of the independence of the Irish Free State from the United Kingdom.\n\nIn January 1922, a Provisional Government of Ireland was formed, approved by the members elected for the House of Commons of Southern Ireland in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty. By Order in Council under the Irish Free State (Agreement) Act 1922, the British Government formally transferred powers to the Provisional Government on 1 April 1922.\n\nON 6 December 1922, under the Treaty's provisions, the new Constitution of the Irish Free State, having been enacted separately by the Third Dáil, sitting as a constituent assembly, and the Parliament of the United Kingdom, came into force through a proclamation issued by the King. Both the Dáil Ministry and the Provisional Government were replaced by the Executive Council, under the chairmanship of the President of the Executive Council. Initially its governmental offices were an amalgam of posts from the Lord Lieutenant's administration, the Provisional Government and the Dáil Ministry. For example, there was an Irish \"Postmaster General\", a post that had existed in the Lord Lieutenant's administration, and a \"Minister for Home Affairs\", an office created as part of the Dáil ministry.\n\nIn the Governor-General's Address to Dáil Éireann at the State Opening of the Oireachtas on 3 October 1923 the first indication was given that:\n\nThe Ministers and Secretaries Bill 1923 was introduced by William T. Cosgrave, President of the Executive Council, on 16 November 1923. The governmental structures that were to be a permanent feature of independent Irish government were regularised and defined. Positions which had existed under the Dublin Castle administration, like those of Postmaster-General and Solicitor-General, were merged into new Departments of State, as was the Ministry for Labour, which had been part of the Dáil Ministry. Some departments which had been created by the Dáil Ministry were given new names, most notably the Ministry of Home Affairs, which changed from a title with similarity to the British Home Secretary to the more European-sounding \"Minister for Justice\". The bill was enacted as the Ministers and Secretaries Act 1924, and was commenced on 2 June 1924.\n\nThe 1924 Act created the following government departments:\nTen of the eleven departments created in 1924 continue to exist, with changes in most cases to departmental title and functions. Section 6 of the Ministers and Secretaries (Amendment) Act 1939 permits the Government to alter the title of any department of state or minister and to transfer branches between departments. The Department of Posts and Telegraphs was abolished in 1984, when its departmental functions were transferred to the new Department of Communications.\n\nThe following departments were created by later amending legislation:\nSection 7 of the 1924 Act permitted the Executive Council to appoint up to seven members of the Oireachtas as parliamentary secretaries to the Executive Council or to Executive Ministers.\n\nThe Ministers and Secretaries (Amendment) (No. 2) Act 1977 abolished the position of parliamentary secretary. In its place, it permitted the government to appoint up to ten members of the Oireachtas (Dáil or Seanad) to the position of Minister of State (), a ministerial poistion of non-cabinet rank attached to one or more Departments of State. These changes took effect on 1 January 1978. To date no senator has been appointed as a Minister of State. Unlike government ministers who are appointed by the President on the advice of the Taoiseach, with the prior approval of the Dáil, Ministers of State are appointed by the cabinet, on nomination of the Taoiseach.\n\nMinisters of State continue in office after the dissolution of the Dáil until a successor is appointed. If the Taoiseach resigns from office, a Minister of State is also deemed to have resigned from office. A Minister of State ceases to hold office if they are appointed as a Government Minister. A Minister of State may resign from office by letter addressed to the Taoiseach.\n\nPowers and duties of a Government Minister may be delegated to a Minister of State by a statutory instrument. If the Government Minister resigns, these powers must delegated again on the appointment of a new Government Minister.\n\nIn 1980, the number of Ministers of State permitted was increased from 10 to 15, and in 1995 it was raised to 17, and in 2007 it was raised to 20. There are currently 19 Ministers of State.\n\nSection 3(2) of the 1924 Act (later repealed and replaced in similar terms by s. 4 of the Ministers and Secretaries (Amendment) Act 1946) allowed for two or more Departments of State to be assigned to the same person. At present, Leo Varadkar is Taoiseach and Minister for Defence, and Paschal Donohoe is Minister for Finance and Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform.\n\nSection 6 of the 1924 Act created the post of Attorney-General of the Irish Free State. This post was to take over, \"the business, powers, authorities, duties and functions formerly vested in or exercised by the Attorney-General for Ireland, the Solicitor-General for Ireland, the Attorney-General for Southern Ireland, the Solicitor-General for Southern Ireland, the Law Adviser to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland and any or all of them respectively…\".\n\nThe 1924 Act also created an official Seal for the Executive Council, and created a Council for Defence to aid and advise the Minister for Defence. It provided for the existence of ministerial salaries for members of the Executive Council and Parliamentary Secretaries and that all executive orders were to be published in the Irish state gazette, to be known as .\n\nThe 1939 Act allowed a member of the Government to be a minister without portfolio and permitted the Taoiseach to perform a cabinet reshuffle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096574", "title": "Lite-Brite", "text": "Lite-Brite\n\nLite-Brite is a toy that was originally marketed in 1967. It consists of a light box with small colored plastic pegs that fit into a panel and illuminate to create a lit picture, by either using one of the included templates or creating a \"freeform\" image on a blank sheet of black paper. There are eight peg colors: red, blue, orange, white (clear/colorless), green, yellow, pink, and violet (purple).\n\nIn the event that pegs were lost or damaged, Hasbro provided refills and/or new colors. Color-by-letter templates were sold with the set so that children could create characters including Mickey Mouse, \"Scooby-Doo\", \"My Little Pony\", and \"Transformers\" among others.\n\nLite-Brite was invented by Joseph M. Burck, a senior designer at Chicago toy and game design company Marvin Glass and Associates, which licensed the invention to Hasbro. Lite-Brite was named one of the top 100 toys of all time by Time Magazine.\n\nLite-Brite allows the artist to create a glowing picture by punching multi-colored translucent plastic pegs through opaque black paper. Using a standard light bulb, the light is blocked by the black paper except where the pegs conduct the light. When lit, the pegs have an appearance similar to that of LEDs.\n\nOver the years, Lite-Brite was offered in different forms including a flat-screen version, a 3D cube, and an FX edition that spins and plays music. The Lite-Brite LED Flat Screen currently sells at MSRP $10, comes in several colors, is LED lit, and is portable, running on three AA batteries. The Lite-Brite 3D cube (called the Four-Share Cube) is a LED-lit four-sided cube that allowed children to play with friends or save three of their designs. The FX Edition is no longer on Hasbro's website. The website has SUN 'N NITE BRITE Sets priced at $10 MSRP and running on three AAA batteries.\n\nThere are various websites online that host virtual Lite-Brite games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096576", "title": "Battle of Dominguez Rancho", "text": "Battle of Dominguez Rancho\n\nThe Battle of Dominguez Rancho or The Battle of the Old Woman's Gun or The Battle of Dominguez Hills (October 8-9, 1846) was a military engagement of the Mexican–American War. The skirmish took place within Manuel Dominguez's Rancho San Pedro.\n\nAfter receiving word of the Siege of Los Angeles, Commodore Robert F. Stockton sent US Navy Captain William Mervine and the Savannah on October 4 to San Pedro to assist Capt. Archibald H. Gillespie. Arriving on October 7, Mervine set out on October 8 with sailors, marines and bear flaggers to recapture the town. (Note: there is confusion about the exact dates of the events, with some sources believing them to be a day earlier.)\n\nMervine's march was poorly planned with little knowledge of the enemy. It began inauspiciously with the death by friendly fire of a cabin boy upon landing. His troops were armed with an assortment of muskets, cutlasses and pikes; they brought no horses, wagons or cannons. The first leg of the planned march toward the pueblo, on October 8, was a six-hour dusty slog with little or no water, during which they were harassed by the enemy on the hillsides around them.\n\nMervine and his troops reached the abandoned Dominguez Rancho, where they camped for the night, within view of an advance detachment of Flores' troops. There was sporadic firing from the enemy during the night, with no other effect than that of depriving Mervine's party of sleep. Setting off at daylight on the 9th, the Americans advanced just to the north of Dominguez Rancho.\n\nWhen the Americans had occupied Los Angeles in August, residents had hidden some weapons by burying them. General José Flores' force, equipped with lances, knives and old firearms that had been hidden, was nearly as poorly armed, but it did have a cannon.\n\nThis old brass four-pounder, used ceremonially in the Los Angeles Plaza, had been buried in the garden of Inocencia Reyes. It was dug up and mounted on a horse-drawn limber. (In another account, the \"old Woman\" is identified as Clara Cota de Reyes. It is said that she had buried the small cannon in a cane patch near her home with the help of her daughters, one of whom was named Inocencia.)\n\nSeñora Reyes' four-pounder was placed on the narrow trail that the Americans needed to use. Ropes (probably lassos or \"riatas\") were lashed to the limber to pull the gun into the brush for reloading. The Californio horsemen deployed at a safe distance from the trail on the enemy's flanks.\n\nThe simple tactics proved effective. When the Americans came within 400 yards, the cannon was fired and quickly pulled back into the brush, followed by musket fire from the horsemen.\n\nMervine's forces were helpless on foot against a mounted enemy they could neither see nor count. Realizing they could not reach Los Angeles, Mervine had little choice except to retreat.\n\nThe main battle lasted less than an hour; five hours later Mervine's forces were back on their ship in San Pedro Bay.\n\nFour of the seriously wounded Americans died and were buried on a little island in San Pedro Bay called Isla de los Muertos, along with the cabin boy. (Island of the Dead.). Mervine's troops reboarded the \"Savannah,\" and after a few days, the warship sailed north toward Monterey.\n\nThe fate of the old woman's gun is unclear. Some say it was surrendered to the Americans after the Capitulation of Cahuenga; however, another account tells that the cannon was resurrected by the Californio dons in 1853 for the celebration of the Fourth of July. According to the account of one Major Horace Bell, a Los Angeles Ranger, Juan Sepulveda dug up the gun from near his own property and took it to Dead Man's Island where he and his friends set it up near the graves of the Americans and fired a salute \"in the exuberance of his patriotism.\" It is possible that the famous gun was displayed at the New Orleans Exposition of 1884-85 in the Navy Exhibit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096582", "title": "Kalineesan", "text": "Kalineesan\n\nKalineesan is someone who was caught by Kalimayai (not to be confused with the Hindu deity) according to Akilattirattu Ammanai, the source of Ayyavazhi mythology. Kaliyan is the sixth fragment of Kroni and Kalineesan. According to Ayyavazhi mythology, the kalimayai captured the King of Travancore and henceforth was called Kalineesan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096585", "title": "The Adventures of Mark Twain (1944 film)", "text": "The Adventures of Mark Twain (1944 film)\n\nThe Adventures of Mark Twain is a 1944 American biographical film directed by Irving Rapper and starring Fredric March as Samuel Clemens (Mark Twain) and Alexis Smith as his wife, Olivia. Produced at Warner Brothers, it has music by Max Steiner. The film was nominated for three Academy Awards.\n\nIrving Rapper said he did not want to make the film and had to be talked into it by Hal B. Wallis. \nA group of people are watching Halley's Comet overhead when Judge Clemens is called away for the birth of his son, Samuel Clemens. The film proceeds to mix in elements of many of Clemens' best-known stories as if they actually occurred. Thus, as he grows up, Sam plays with his friends Huck, Tom, and the slave boy Jim on a raft on the Mississippi, providing a fictitious \"real-life\" basis for the novels \"Tom Sawyer\" and \"The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn\".\n\nThe teenage Sam goes to work for his brother Orion, publisher of the \"Hannibal Journal\" newspaper, at his now-widowed mother's urging, but after three unhappy years, runs away to become a river boat pilot. After a rough start, he thrives under the tutelage of Captain Horace Bixby and becomes a highly skilled pilot on the Mississippi River.\n\nOne day, he spots a pickpocket robbing Charles Langdon, a passenger aboard his ship. Among the possessions Sam forces the thief to return is a small portrait of Charles's sister Olivia. After seeing it, Sam falls deeply in love. As they become friends, Sam tells Charles that he is going to marry Olivia. To that end, he gives up his job to seek his fortune with his friend Steve, prospecting for gold or silver (with little success) in the west.\n\nWhen he finally gives up, he becomes a newspaper reporter in Nevada. Steve persuades him to enter a jumping frog contest against Bret Harte. The plot is taken from Twain's real first major story, \"The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County\". Steve cheats by secretly feeding lead buckshot to Harte's champion frog. Their frog wins easily as a result. However, Sam later sheepishly admits to Steve that he bet all their money on the champ. Sam then writes the story and sends it off, under the pen name Mark Twain, to try to get it published.\n\nWhen the Civil War begins, Sam leaves Nevada, narrowly missing J. B. Pond, who has come all the way from the east to find the writer of the frog story. (In real life, Clemens went to Nevada \"after\" the war started, partly to get away from the conflict.) The \"Jumping Frog of Calaveras County\" is published in the newspapers and is widely read and greatly enjoyed as a welcome change from the grim war news. (In real life, the frog story was not published until the war was already over.)\n\nWhen the Civil War ends, Pond finally finds Sam. He signs him up for a lecture tour. Charles and Olivia (\"Livy\") Langdon are in the audience of his very first lecture, where his humor and wit make him an immediate success. He marries his beloved Livy, despite her father's initial opposition, and becomes a famous writer and lecturer.\n\nHowever, Sam wants to become more than just a humorist. He invests in a typesetting machine and establishes a publishing company. Both ventures require more and more capital, so Sam has to keep writing furiously for years. Finally fed up with his constant money troubles, he turns to businessman Henry Huttleston Rogers to extricate him from his financial mess. Rogers tells him he can avoid bankruptcy, but only if he does not honor his overly-generous contract to publish Ulysses S. Grant's memoirs. Sam agrees to go see the former president. Dismayed to find Grant poverty-stricken and dying, he decides that the country owes the great man such a debt of gratitude that going bankrupt is a small price to pay. (In reality, the company did publish Grant's memoirs—about eight years \"before\" Clemens met Rogers—and the venture was a huge success. The business did, in fact, eventually go bankrupt, but not because of Grant.) Though Rogers gets the creditors to accept half payment, Sam is determined to pay in full his staggering debt of $250,000. To do so, he embarks on a strenuous worldwide lecture tour, leaving behind Livy to care for their daughters.\n\nAt last, he manages to pay everything off and is reunited with his now-ailing wife in Florence. She is very proud when she receives word just before she dies that her husband is to receive an honorary doctorate from Oxford University, which she considers the greatest honor a writer can attain.\n\nSam himself dies when Halley's Comet returns in 1910. Afterward, his spirit is called away by Tom and Huck to join them in the afterlife. Before walking away, Sam's spirit tells his grieving daughter (who of course cannot see him) that the rumors of his demise are greatly exaggerated.\n\n\nContemporary assessments were mixed. Bosley Crowther gave a generally negative review in \"The New York Times\", calling it a \"lengthy and desultory picture\" and \"a spotty and often inaccurate chronicle\", and complaining \"This spotty character of the picture is due not alone to the script but also to the direction, which is strangely inconsistent throughout.\" He continued by saying \"Mr. March's performance of Twain is agreeable,\" but called Alexis Smith's portrayal \"colorless and conventional\". \"Variety\" ran a positive review, calling it \"an educational yet highly entertaining biography of the immortal American ... The stars, notably, perform their assignments with extraordinary compassion and understanding, particularly March in the title role.\" \"Harrison's Reports\" was also positive, calling it \"an excellently produced, heart-warming human-interest drama, well acted and directed. Fredric March portrays Twain with deep understanding.\" David Lardner of \"The New Yorker\" dismissed the film, writing that it wasn't much worse than most biographical films and \"does have its good moments\", but \"once more biographical inaccuracy is rampant, and once more the best dramatic possibilities have been overlooked.\"\n\n\"The Adventures of Mark Twain\" has been called \"perhaps the most impressive of all Forties large-scale biopics\" by Charles Higham and Joel Greenberg in their book \"Hollywood in the Forties\".\n\nThe film was nominated three times at the 17th Academy Awards:\n\nAccording to Warner Bros. records, the film earned $1,736,000 domestically and $614,000 foreign.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096598", "title": "Kalimayai", "text": "Kalimayai\n\nKalimayai is the illusion caused by the evil spirit of Kali Yukam, (\"not the Hindu deity kali\") according to Akilattirattu Ammanai the source of Ayyavazhi mythology.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096603", "title": "IP Pascal", "text": "IP Pascal\n\nIP Pascal is an implementation of the Pascal programming language using the IP portability platform, a multiple machine, operating system and language implementation system.\n\nIP Pascal implements the language \"Pascaline\" (named after Blaise Pascal's calculator), which is a highly extended superset of ISO 7185 Pascal. It adds modularity with namespace control, including the parallel tasking monitor concept, dynamic arrays, overloads and overrides, objects, and a host of other minor extensions to the language. IP implements a porting platform, including a widget toolkit, TCP/IP library, MIDI and sound library and other functions, that allows both programs written under IP Pascal, and IP Pascal itself, to move to multiple operating systems and machines.\n\nIP Pascal is one of the only Pascal implementations that still exist that has passed the Pascal Validation Suite, a large suite of tests created to verify compliance with ISO 7185 Pascal.\n\nAlthough Pascaline extends ISO 7185 Pascal, it does not reduce the type safety of Pascal (as many other dialects of Pascal have by including so called \"type escapes\"). The functionality of the language is similar to that of C# (which implements a C++ like language but with the type insecurities removed), and Pascaline can be used anywhere that managed programs can be used (even though it is based on a language 30 years older than C#).\n\nThe author of Pascaline the language has stated that there is no wish to have it remain as a proprietary language. IP Pascal is sold as an implementation of Pascaline, but the language itself can and should be open, and should have quality implementations.\n\nTo that end, the full specification for Pascaline will be published online, and the long-term intention is to create a version of the open source P5 compiler-interpreter (an ISO 7185 version of Wirth's P4 compiler-interpreter) which implements Pascaline compliance. This will be known as the P6 compiler, and it will also be openly published and distributed.\n\nThe value of IP Pascal as a commercial product will be based on the IDE and compiler-encoder resources of that system.\n\nThis article follows a fairly old version of Pascaline. A newer version of Pascaline exists as Pascal-P6, part of the Pascal-P series. See the references below.\n\nIP Pascal starts with ISO 7185 Pascal (which standardized Niklaus Wirth's original language), and adds:\n\n module mymod(input, output);\n\nModules have entry and exit sections. Declarations in modules form their own interface specifications, and it is not necessary to have both interface and implementation sections. If a separate interface declaration file is needed, it is created by stripping the code out of a module and creating a \"skeleton\" of the module. This is typically done only if the object for a module is to be sent out without the source.\n\nModules must occupy a single file, and modules reference other modules via a uses or joins statement. To allow this, a module must bear the same name as its file name. The uses statement indicates that the referenced module will have its global declarations merged with the referencing module, and any name conflicts that result will cause an error. The joins statement will cause the referenced module to be accessible via the referencing module, but does not merge the name spaces of the two modules. Instead, the referencing module must use a so-called \"qualified identifier\":\n\nA program from ISO 7185 Pascal is directly analogous to a module, and is effectively a module without an exit section. Because all modules in the system are \"daisy chained\" such that each are executed in order, a program assumes \"command\" of the program simply because it does not exit its initialization until its full function is complete, unlike a module which does. In fact, it is possible to have multiple program sections, which would execute in sequence.\n\nA process module, like a program module, has only an initialization section, and runs its start, full function and completion in that section. However, it gets its own thread for execution aside from the main thread that runs program modules. As such, it can only call monitor and share modules.\n\nA monitor is a module that includes task locking on each call to an externally accessible procedure or function, and implements communication between tasks by semaphores.\n\nA share module, because it has no global data at all, can be used by any other module in the system, and is used to place library code in.\n\nBecause the module system directly implements multitasking/multithreading using the Monitor concept, it solves the majority of multithreading access problems. Data for a module is bound to the code with mutexes or Mutually Exclusive Sections. Subtasks/subthreads are started transparently with the process module. Multiple subtasks/subthreads can access monitors or share modules. A share module is a module without data, which does not need the locking mechanisms of a monitor.\n\nIn IP Pascal, dynamics are considered \"containers\" for static arrays. The result is that IP Pascal is perhaps the only Pascal where dynamic arrays are fully compatible with the ISO 7185 static arrays from the original language. A static array can be passed into a dynamic array parameter to a procedure or function, or created with new\n\nSuch \"container\" arrays can be any number of dimensions.\n\nA constant declaration can contain expressions of other constants\n\n $ff, &76, %011000\n\n label exit;\n\n var my_number: integer;\n\n a := 1234_5678;\n\nThe '_' (break) character can be included anywhere in a number except for the first digit. It is ignored, and serves only to separate digits in the number.\n\n const str = 'the rain in Spain\\cr\\lf';\n\nUsing standard ISO 8859-1 mnemonics.\n\n procedure x(i: integer); forward;\n\nThis makes it easier to declare a forward by cut-and-paste, and keeps the parameters of the procedure or function in the actual header where they can be seen.\n\n procedure error(view s: string);\n\n program myprog(input, output, list);\n\n'command' is a file that connects to the command line, so that it can be read using normal file read operations.\n\n program copy(source, destination);\n\n'source' and 'destination' files are automatically connected to the parameters on the command line for the program.\n\n program extfile(output);\n\n fixed table: array [1..5] of record a: integer; packed array [1..10] of char end =\n\n program test;\n\n program test;\n\nExtended range specifications give rules for scalars that lie outside the range of -maxint..maxint. It is implementation-specific as to just how large a number is possible, but Pascaline defines a series of standard types that exploit the extended ranges, including linteger for double-range integers, cardinal for unsigned integers, and lcardinal for unsigned double range integers. Pascaline also defines new limits for these types, as maxlint, maxcrd, and maxlcrd.\n\n monitor test;\n\nSemaphores implement task event queuing directly in the language, using the classical methods outlined by Per Brinch Hansen.\n\n module test1;\n\nOverriding a procedure or function in another module effectively \"hooks\" that routine, replacing the definition for all callers of it, but makes the original definition available to the hooking module. This allows the overriding module to add new functionality to the old procedure or function. This can be implemented to any depth.\n\n procedure x;\n\nOverload \"groups\" allow a series of procedures and/or functions to be placed under the same name and accessed by their formal parameter or usage \"signature\". Unlike other languages that implement the concept, Pascaline will not accept overloads as belonging to the same group unless they are not ambiguous with each other. This means that there is no \"priority\" of overloads, nor any question as to which routine of an overload group will be executed for any given actual reference.\n\n program test;\n\nIn Pascaline, classes are a dynamic instance of a module (and modules are a static instance of a class). Classes are a code construct (not a type) that exists between modules and procedures and functions. Because a class is a module, it can define any code construct, such as constants, types, variables, fixed, procedures and functions (which become \"methods\"), and make them public to clients of the class, or hide them with the \"private\" keyword. Since a class is a module, it can be accessed via a qualified identifier.\n\nClasses as modules have automatic access to their namespace as found in C# and C++ in that they do not require any qualification. Outside of the class, all members of the class can be accessed either by qualified identifier or by a reference. A reference is a pointer to the object that is created according to the class. Any number of instances of a class, known as \"objects\" can be created with the new() statement, and removed with the dispose() statement. Class members that have instance data associated with them, such as variables (or fields) and methods must be accessed via a reference. A reference is a type, and resembles a pointer, including the ability to have the value nil, and checking for equality with other reference types. It is not required to qualify the pointer access with \"^\".\n\nPascaline implements the concept of \"reference grace\" to allow a reference to access any part of the object regardless of whether or not it is per-instance. This characteristic allows class members to be \"promoted\", that is moved from constants to variables, and then to \"properties\" (which are class fields whose read and write access are provided by \"get\" and \"set\" methods).\n\nBoth overloads and overrides are provided for and object's methods. A method that will be overridden must be indicated as virtual.\n\nObject methods can change the reference used to access them with the codice_1 keyword.\n\nSingle inheritance only is implemented.\n\n try\n\nThe \"try\" statement can guard a series of statements, and any exceptions flagged within the code are routined to the statement after \"except\". The try statement also features an else clause that allows a statement to be executed on normal termination of the try block.\n\nExceptions are raised in the code via the throw() procedure. Try statements allow the program to bail out of any nested block, and serve as a better replacement for intra-procedure gotos (which are still supported under Pascaline). Since unhandled exceptions generate errors by default, the throw() procedure can serve as a general purpose error flagging system.\n\n assert(expression);\n\nThe system procedure assert causes the program to terminate if the value tested is false. It is typically coupled to a runtime dump or diagnostic, and can be removed by compiler option.\n\nIP Pascal can generate either ISO 8859-1 mode programs (8-bit characters) or Unicode mode programs by a simple switch at compile time (unlike many other languages, there is no source difference between Unicode and non-Unicode programs). The ASCII upward-compatible UTF-8 format is used in text files, and these files are read to and from 8- or 16-bit characters internal to the program (the upper 128 characters of ISO 8859-1 are converted to and from UTF-8 format in text files even in an 8-bit character encoded program).\n\nSimilar to maxint, Pascaline has a maxchr, which is the maximum character that exists in the character set (and may not in fact have a graphical representation). The range of the type char is then defined as 0..maxchr. This is an important addition for dealing with types like \"set of char\", and aids when dealing with different character set options (such as ISO 8859-1 or Unicode).\n\nIP Pascal uses a unique stacking concept for modules. Each module is stacked one atop the other in memory, and executed at the bottom. The bottom module calls the next module up, and that module calls the next module, and so on.\n\nThe cap module (sometimes called a \"cell\" in IP Pascal terminology, after a concept in integrated circuit design) terminates the stack, and begins a return process that ripples back down until the program terminates. Each module has its startup or entry section performed on the way up the stack, and its finalization or exit section performed on the way back down.\n\nThis matches the natural dependencies in a program. The most primitive modules, such as the basic I/O support in \"serlib\", perform their initialization first, and their finalization last, before and after the higher level modules in the stack.\n\nIP Pascal has a series of modules (or \"libraries\") that form a \"porting platform\". These libraries present an idealized API for each function that applies, such as files and extended operating system functions, graphics, midi and sound, etc. The whole collection forms the basis for an implementation on each operating system and machine that IP Pascal appears on.\n\nThe two important differences between IP Pascal and many other languages that have simply been mated with portable graphics libraries are that:\n\n\nIP modules can also be created that are system independent, and rely only on the porting platform modules. The result is that IP Pascal is very highly portable.\n\nExample: The standard \"hello world\" program is coupled to output into a\ngraphical window.\n\nExample: \"hello world\" with graphical commands added. Note that standard Pascal\noutput statements are still used.\n\nBecause IP Pascal modules can \"override\" each other, a graphical extension module (or any other type of module) can override the standard I/O calls implemented in a module below it. Thus, paslib implements standard Pascal statements such as read, write, and other support services. gralib overrides these services and redirects all standard Pascal I/O to graphical windows.\n\nThe difference between this and such libraries in other implementations is that you typically have to stop using the standard I/O statements and switch to a completely different set of calls and paradigms. This means that you cannot \"bring forward\" programs implemented with the serial I/O paradigm to graphical systems.\n\nAnother important difference with IP Pascal is that it uses procedural language methods to access the Windowed graphics library. Most graphics toolkits force the use of object-oriented programming methods to the toolkit. One reason for this is because Object orientation is a good match for graphics, but it also occurs because common systems such as Windows force the application program to appear as a service program to the operating system, appearing as a collection of functions called by the operating system, instead of having the program control its own execution and call the operating system. This is commonly known as callback design. Object-oriented code often works better with callbacks because it permits an object's methods to be called as callbacks, instead of a programmer having to register several pointers to functions to event handling code, each of which would be an individual callback.\n\nObject-orientation is a good programming method, but IP Pascal makes it an optional, not a required, methodology to write programs. IP Pascal's ability to use procedural methods to access all graphics functions means that there is no \"cliff effect\" for older programs. They don't need to be rewritten just to take advantage of modern programming environments.\n\nAnother interesting feature of the IP porting platform is that it supports a character mode, even in graphical environments, by providing a \"character grid\" that overlays the pixel grid, and programs that use only character mode calls (that would work on any terminal or telnet connection) work under graphical environments automatically.\n\nThe compiler started out in 1980 on Micropolis Disk Operating System, but was moved rapidly to CP/M running on the Z80. The original system was coded in Z80 assembly language, and output direct machine code for the Z80. It was a single-pass compiler without a linker, it included its system support library within the compiler, and relocated and output that into the generated code into the runnable disk file.\n\nAfter the compiler was operational, almost exactly at the new year of 1980, a companion assembler for the compiler was written, in Pascal, followed by a linker, in Z80 assembly language. This odd combination was due to a calculation that showed the linker tables would be a problem in the 64kb limited Z80, so the linker needed to be as small as possible. This was then used to move the compiler and linker Z80 source code off the Micropolis assembler (which was a linkerless assembler that created a single output binary) to the new assembler linker system.\n\nAfter this, the compiler was retooled to output to the linker format, and the support library moved into a separate file and linked in.\n\nIn 1981, the compiler was extensively redone to add optimization, such as register allocation, boolean to jump, dead code, constant folding, and other optimizations. This created a Pascal implementation that benchmarked better than any existing Z80 compilers, as well as most 8086 compilers. Unfortunately, at 46kb, it also was difficult to use, being able to compile only a few pages of source code before overflowing its tables (this was a common problem with most Pascal implementations on small address processors). The system was able to be used primarily because of the decision to create a compact linker allowed for large systems to be constructed from these small object files.\n\nDespite this, the original IP Pascal implementation ran until 1987 as a general purpose compiler. In this phase, IP Pascal was C like in its modular layout. Each source file was a unit, and consisted of some combination of a 'program' module, types, constants, variables, procedures or functions. These were in \"free format\". Procedures, functions, types, constants and variables could be outside of any block, and in any order. Procedures, functions, and variables in other files were referenced by 'external' declarations, and procedures, functions, and variables in the current file were declared 'global'. Each file was compiled to an object file, and then linked together. There was no type checking across object files.\n\nAs part of the original compiler, a device independent terminal I/O module was created to allow use of any serial terminal (similar to Turbo Pascal's CRT unit), which remains to this day.\n\nIn 1985, an effort was begun to rewrite the compiler in Pascal. The new compiler would be two pass with intermediate, which was designed to solve the memory problems associated with the first compiler. The front end of the compiler was created and tested without intermediate code generation capabilities (parse only).\n\nin 1987, the Z80 system used for IP was exchanged for an 80386 IBM-PC, and work on it stopped. From that time several other, ISO 7185 standard compilers were used, ending with the SVS Pascal compiler, a 32 bit DPMI extender based implementation.\n\nBy 1993, ISO 7185 compatible compilers that delivered high quality 32 bit code were dying off. At this point, the choice was to stop using Pascal, or to revive the former IP Pascal project and modernize it as an 80386 compiler. At this point, a Pascal parser, and assembler (for Z80) were all that existed which were usable on the IBM-PC. From 1993 to 1994, the assembler was made modular to target multiple CPUs including the 80386, a linker to replace the Z80 assembly language linker was created, and a Pascal compiler front end was finished to output to intermediate code. Finally, an intermediate code simulator was constructed, in Pascal, to prove the system out.\n\nIn 1994, the simulator was used to extend the ISO 7185 IP Pascal \"core\" language to include features such as dynamic arrays.\n\nIn 1995, a \"check encoder\" was created to target 80386 machine code, and a converter program created to take the output object files and create a \"Portable Executable\" file for Windows. The system support library was created for IP Pascal, itself in IP Pascal. This was an unusual step taken to prevent having to later recode the library from assembly or another Pascal to IP Pascal, but with the problem that both the 80386 code generator and the library would have to be debugged together.\n\nAt the beginning of 1996, the original target of Windows NT was switched to Windows 95, and IP Pascal became fully operational as an 80386 compiler under Windows. The system bootstrapped itself, and the remaining Pascal code was ported from SVS Pascal to IP Pascal to complete the bootstrap. This process was aided considerably by the ability of the DPMI based SVS Pascal to run under Windows 95, which meant that the need to boot back and forth between DOS and Windows 95 was eliminated.\n\nIn 2000, a Linux (Red Hat) version was created for text mode only. This implementation directly uses the system calls and avoids the use of glibc, and thus creates thinner binaries than if the full support system needed for C were used, at the cost of binary portability.\n\nThe plan is to create a version of the text library that uses termcap info, and the graphical library under X11.\n\nIn 1997, a version of the terminal library from the original 1980 IP Pascal was ported to windows, and a final encoder started for the 80386. However, the main reason for needing an improved encoder, execution speed, was largely made irrelevant by increases in processor speed in the IBM-PC. As a result, the new encoder wasn't finished until 2003.\n\nIn 2001, a companion program to IP Pascal was created to translate C header files to Pascal header files. This was meant to replace the manual method of creating operating system interfaces for IP Pascal.\n\nIn 2003, a fully graphical, operating system independent module was created for IP Pascal.\n\nIn 2005, the windows management and widget kit was added.\n\nIn retrospect, the biggest error in the Z80 version was its single-pass structure. There was no real reason for it; the author's preceding (Basic) compiler was multiple pass with intermediate storage. The only argument for it was that single-pass compilation was supposed to be faster. However, single-pass compiling turns out to be a bad match for small machines, and isn't likely to help the advanced optimizations common in large machines.\n\nFurther, the single pass aspect slowed or prevented getting the compiler bootstrapped out of Z80 assembly language and onto Pascal itself. Since the compiler was monolithic, the conversion to Pascal could not be done one section at a time, but had to proceed as a wholesale replacement. When replacement was started, the project lasted longer than the machine did. The biggest help that two pass compiling gave the I80386 implementation was the maintenance of a standard book of intermediate instructions which communicated between front and back ends of the compiler. This well understood \"stage\" of compilation reduced overall complexity. Intuitively, when two programs of equal size are mated intimately, the complexity is not additive, but multiplicative, because the connections between the program halves multiply out of control.\n\nAnother lesson from the Z80 days, which was corrected on the 80386 compiler, was to write as much of the code as possible into Pascal itself, even the support library. Having the 80386 support code all written in Pascal has made it so modular and portable that most of it was moved out of the operating system specific area and into the \"common code\" library section, a section reserved for code that never changes for each machine and operating system. Even the \"system specific\" code needs modification only slightly from implementation to implementation. The result is great amounts of implementation work saved while porting the system.\n\nFinally, it was an error to enter into a second round of optimization before bootstrapping the compiler. Although the enhancement of the output code was considerable, the resulting increase in complexity of the compiler caused problems with the limited address space. At the time, better optimized code was seen to be an enabler to bootstrapping the code in Pascal. In retrospect, the remaining assembly written sections WERE the problem, and needed to be eliminated, the sooner the better. Another way to say this is that the space problems could be transient, but having significant program sections written in assembly are a serious and lasting problem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096610", "title": "List of companies of Albania", "text": "List of companies of Albania\n\nAlbania's transition from a socialist centrally planned economy to a capitalist mixed economy has been largely successful. \"Formal non-agricultural employment in the private sector more than doubled between 1999 and 2013,\" notes the World Bank, with much of this expansion powered by foreign investment.\n\nFor further information on the types of business entities in this country and their abbreviations, see Business entities in Albania.\n\nThis list includes notable companies with primary headquarters located in the country. The industry and sector follow the Industry Classification Benchmark taxonomy. Organizations which have ceased operations are included and noted as defunct.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096616", "title": "MIL-STD-498", "text": "MIL-STD-498\n\nMIL-STD-498 (Military-Standard-498) was a United States military standard whose purpose was to \"establish uniform requirements for software development and documentation.\" It was released Nov. 8, 1994, and replaced DOD-STD-2167A, DOD-STD-7935A, and DOD-STD-1703. It was meant as an interim standard, to be in effect for about two years until a commercial standard was developed. \n\nUnlike previous efforts like the seminal \"2167A\" which was mainly focused on the risky new area of software development, \"498\" was the first attempt at a truly comprehensive description of the systems development life-cycle. It was the baseline that all of the ISO, IEEE, and related efforts after it replaced. It also contains much of the material that the subsequent professionalization of project management covered in the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK). The document \"MIL-STD-498 Overview and Tailoring Guidebook\" is 98 pages. The \"MIL-STD-498 Application and Reference Guidebook\" is 516 pages. Associated to these were document templates, or Data Item Descriptions, described below, bringing documentation and process order that could scale to projects of the size humans were then conducting (aircraft, battleships, canals, dams, factories, satellites, submarines, etcetera).\n\nIt was one of the few military standards that survived the \"Perry Memo\", then U.S. Secretary of Defense William Perry's 1994 memorandum commanding the discontinuation of defense standards. However, it was canceled on May 27, 1998 and replaced by the essentially identical demilitarized version EIA J-STD-016\n\nMIL-STD-498 standard describes the development and documentation in terms of 22 Data Item Descriptions (DIDs) from which an effort will select to conduct the system development and support efforts. Each DID generically describes the required content of a \"data item\", a file or document that describes the system or some aspect of the system life-cycle. These documents could take many forms, from source code, to installation scripts, to various electronic and paper reports, and the contracting party (e.g., the government) is encouraged to specify acceptable formats. Any data item description is \"tailored\" for a specific contract, meaning sections not desired for a particular effort are identified as not to be provided as part of identifying the Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL) of what items are to be produced and delivered by a contractor. Exactly which DIDs and what parts of the DIDs are required for a particular system depends on the nature of the project and how parts of it are being produced by contract(s).\n\nThe DIDs are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096623", "title": "William Yeager", "text": "William Yeager\n\nWilliam \"Bill\" Yeager (born June 16, 1940, San Francisco) is an American engineer. He is best known for being the inventor of a packet-switched, \"Ships in the Night,\" multiple-protocol router in 1981, during his 20-year tenure at Stanford's Knowledge Systems Laboratory as well as the Stanford University Computer Science department.\nThe code routed Parc Universal Packet (PUP), XNS, IP and CHAOSNet. The router used Bill's Network Operating System (NOS). The NOS also supported the EtherTIPS that were used throughout the Stanford LAN for terminal access to both the LAN and the Internet. This code was licensed by Cisco Systems in 1987 and comprised the core of the first Cisco IOS. This provided the groundwork for a new, global communications approach. \n\nHe is also known for his role in the creation of the IMAP mail protocol. In 1984 he conceived of a client/server protocol, designed its functionality, applied for and received the grant money for its implementation. In 1985 Mark Crispin was hired to work with Bill on what became the IMAP protocol. Along with Mark, who implemented the protocols details and wrote the first client, MMD, Bill wrote the first Unix IMAP server. Bill later implemented MacMM which was the first MacIntosh IMAP client. Frank Gilmurray assisted with the initial part of this implementation.\n\nAt Stanford in 1979 Bill wrote the ttyftp serial line file transfer program, which was developed into the MacIntosh version of the Kermit protocol at Columbia University. He was initially hired in August 1975 as a member of Dr. Elliott Levanthal's Instrumentation Research Laboratory. Here, Bill was responsible for a small computer laboratory for biomedical applications of mass spectrometry. This laboratory in conjunction with several chemists, and the Department of inherited rare diseases in the medical school made significant inroads in identifying inherited rare diseases from the gas chromatograph, mass spectrometer data generated from blood and urine samples of sick children. His significant accomplishment was to complete a prototype program initiated by Dr. R. Geoff Dromey called CLEANUP. This program \"extracted representative spectra from GC/MS data,\" and was later used by the EPA to detect water pollutants.\n\nFrom 1970 to 1975 he worked at NASA Ames Research Center where he wrote, as a part of the Pioneer 10/11 mission control operating system, both the telemetry monitoring and real time display of the images of Jupiter. After his tenure at Stanford he worked for 10 years at Sun Microsystems.\n\nAt Sun as the CTO of Project JXTA he filed 40 US Patents, and along with Rita Yu Chen, designed and implemented the JXTA security solutions. In 2002 he along with Jeff Altman, then a contributor to the JXTA Open Source community, initiated the effort to establish the Internet Research Task Force (IRTF) Peer-to-Peer working group. The working group was created in 2003. Bill was the working group chair until 2005.\n\nAs Chief Scientist at Peerouette, Inc., he filed 2 US and 2 European Union Patents. He has so far been granted 20 US Patents 4 of which are on the SIMS High Performance Email Servers which he invented and with a small team of engineers implemented, and 16 on P2P and distributed computing. In the Summer of 1999 under the guidance of Greg Papadopoulos, Sun's CTO, and reporting directly to Carl Cargill, Sun's director of corporate standards, led Sun's WAP Forum team with the major objective, \"... to work with the WAP Forum on the convergence of the WAP protocol suite with IETF, W3C and Java standards.\" \n\nDuring this same period of time he invented the iPlanet Wireless Services. The latter was a Java proxy between IMAP Mail servers and either WAP Servers, or Web Browers. It proxied the following markup languages: The Handheld Device Markup Language, HDML, the Wireless Markup Language, WML, as well as HTML. This was a one person project supported by SFR/Cegetel in France. The primary goal was to enable email service to WAP phones.\n\nHe received his bachelor's degree in mathematics from the University of California, Berkeley in 1964; his master's degree in mathematics from San Jose State University in San Jose, California, in 1966; and completed his doctoral course work at the University of Washington in Seattle, Washington in 1970. Then decided to abandon mathematics for a career in software engineering and research to the skepticism of his thesis advisor because Bill thought the future was in computing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096629", "title": "Hugh Fraser, Baronet of Allander", "text": "Hugh Fraser, Baronet of Allander\n\nHugh Fraser, Baronet of Allander may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2096644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096644", "title": "Cabbagetown, Atlanta", "text": "Cabbagetown, Atlanta\n\nCabbagetown () is an intown neighborhood on the east side of Atlanta, Georgia, United States, abutting historic Oakland Cemetery. It includes the Cabbagetown District, a historic district listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe Atlanta Rolling Mill was destroyed after the Battle of Atlanta and on its site the Fulton Bag and Cotton Mill began operations in 1881. Cabbagetown was built as the surrounding mill town and was one of the first textile processing mills built in the south. Its primary product was cotton bags for packaging agricultural products. Built during a period when many industries were relocating to the post-Reconstruction South in search of cheap labor, it opened shortly following the International Cotton Exposition, which was held in Atlanta in an effort to attract investment to the region. The mill was owned and operated by Jacob Elsas, a German Jewish immigrant. Its work force consisted of poor whites recruited from the Appalachian region of north Georgia. Elsas built a small community of one and two-story shotgun houses and cottage-style houses surrounding the mill, originally known as \"Factory Town or Fulton Mill Village\"'.\nLike most mill towns, the streets are extremely narrow with short blocks and lots of intersections.\n\nThere are a few explanations as to how the neighborhood received its current name. One is that the mostly transplanted poor Appalachian residents, largely of Scots-Irish descent, who worked in the nearby Fulton Bag and Cotton Mill would grow cabbages in the front yards of their houses, so that one could distinctly smell the odor of cooking cabbage coming from the neighborhood. This term was used originally with derision by people outside the neighborhood, but it soon became a label of pride for the people who lived there. A variation of this legend is that a Ford Model T took a sharp turn at one of the main intersections of Cabbagetown, flipped, and spilled its cargo of cabbages across the street. Yet another story involves a neighborhood baseball team, while Atlanta History Center documents show references to the name Pearl Park, after the daughter of a developer who built houses directly to the east of the mill houses near modern-day Pearl Street.\n\nAt its height, the mill employed 2,600 people. A protracted strike in 1914-15 failed to unionize the factory's workforce. For over half a century Cabbagetown remained home to a tight-knit, homogenous, and semi-isolated community of people whose lives were anchored by the mill, until it closed in 1977. While the mill itself was named to the National Register of Historic Places in 1976, the surrounding neighborhood went into a steep decline following the mill closure.\n\nAccompanying the initialization of Atlanta's intown renaissance in the early 1990s, Cabbagetown underwent tremendous growth. As with many other east side neighborhoods, revitalization was sparked by an influx of artists in the 1980s, including Panorama Ray, who operated a photo gallery on the main drag, Carroll Street. Since his death in 1997, Carroll Street has become the home popular restaurants and serves as a neighborhood gathering spot. \n\nBeginning in 1996, the mill itself has been renovated into the nation's largest residential loft community — the Fulton Cotton Mill Lofts — which houses everyone from artists and musicians to business professionals. In April 1999, a five-alarm fire severely damaged the east building which was still being renovated and several nearby homes were destroyed. The lofts nevertheless opened the following year. However, a tornado in March 2008 damaged parts of the loft complex and many of the historic homes and businesses in Cabbagetown.\n\nThe Krog Street Tunnel, which connects Cabbagetown and Inman Park, has become the city's centerpoint for street art. Street art, tags and graffiti are present in the Krog Street Tunnel and in adjacent areas of Reynoldstown notably the wall of the CSX Hulsey railyard along Wylie Street. The art in Cabbagetown is managed by the Wallkeepers Committee of the Cabbagetown Initiative, who in 2012 allowed La Pandilla from Puerto Rico and Trek Matthews from Atlanta to paint two murals at the request of the Living Walls street art organization.\n\nForward Warrior is an annual live street art painting event founded by Atlanta Artist Peter Ferrari. In recent years, Forward Warrior has covered the walls along Wylie St. and Tennelle St. in Cabbagetown with dozens of works of street art. Several of the murals created for Forward Warrior are mapped on the Atlanta Street Art Map.\n\nThe neighborhood's main festival is Chomp and Stomp, a bluegrass and chili festival that takes place in November. Over the past few years, Chomp and Stomp has included a 5k road race and upwards of 16,000 attendees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096655", "title": "List of high schools in Idaho", "text": "List of high schools in Idaho\n\nThis is a list of high schools in the U.S. state of Idaho.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096669", "title": "Lie algebra cohomology", "text": "Lie algebra cohomology\n\nIn mathematics, Lie algebra cohomology is a cohomology theory for Lie algebras. It was first introduced in 1929 by Élie Cartan to study the topology of Lie groups and homogeneous spaces by relating cohomological methods of Georges de Rham to properties of the Lie algebra. It was later extended by to coefficients in an arbitrary Lie module.\n\nIf formula_1 is a compact simply connected Lie group, then it is determined by its Lie algebra, so it should be possible to calculate its cohomology from the Lie algebra. This can be done as follows. Its cohomology is the de Rham cohomology of the complex of differential forms on formula_1. Using an averaging process, this complex can be replaced by the complex of left-invariant differential forms. The left-invariant forms, meanwhile, are determined by their values at the identity, so that the space of left-invariant differential forms can be identified with the exterior algebra of the Lie algebra, with a suitable differential.\n\nThe construction of this differential on an exterior algebra makes sense for any Lie algebra, so it is used to define Lie algebra cohomology for all Lie algebras. More generally one uses a similar construction to define Lie algebra cohomology with coefficients in a module.\n\nIf formula_1 is a simply connected \"noncompact\" Lie group, the Lie algebra cohomology of the associated Lie algebra formula_4 does not necessarily reproduce the de Rham cohomology of formula_1. The reason for this is that the passage from the complex of all differential forms to the complex of left-invariant differential forms uses an averaging process that only makes sense for compact groups.\n\nLet formula_4 be a Lie algebra over a commutative ring \"R\" with universal enveloping algebra formula_7, and let \"M\" be a representation of formula_4 (equivalently, a formula_7-module). Considering \"R\" as a trivial representation of formula_4, one defines the cohomology groups\n\n(see Ext functor for the definition of Ext). Equivalently, these are the right derived functors of the left exact invariant submodule functor\n\nAnalogously, one can define Lie algebra homology as\n\n(see Tor functor for the definition of Tor), which is equivalent to the left derived functors of the right exact coinvariants functor\n\nSome important basic results about the cohomology of Lie algebras include Whitehead's lemmas, Weyl's theorem, and the Levi decomposition theorem.\n\nLet formula_15 be a Lie algebra over a field formula_16, with a left action on the formula_15-module formula_18. The elements of the \"Chevalley–Eilenberg complex\"\nare called cochains from formula_15 to formula_18. A homogeneous formula_22-cochain from formula_15 to formula_18 is thus an alternating formula_16-multilinear function formula_26. The Chevalley–Eilenberg complex is canonically isomorphic to the tensor product formula_27, where formula_28denotes the dual vector space of formula_15.\n\nThe Lie bracket formula_30 on formula_15 induces a transpose application formula_32 by duality. The latter is sufficient to define a derivation formula_33 of the complex of cochains from formula_15 to formula_16 by extending formula_36according to the graded Leibniz rule. It follows from the Jacobi identity that formula_33 satisfies formula_38 and is in fact a differential. In this setting, formula_16 is viewed as a trivial formula_15-module while formula_41 may be thought of as constants.\n\nIn general, let formula_42 denote the left action of formula_15 on formula_18 and regard it as an application formula_45. The Chevalley–Eilenberg differential formula_46 is then the unique derivation extending formula_47 and formula_36 according to the graded Leibniz rule, the nilpotency condition formula_49 following from the Lie algebra homomorphism from formula_15 to formula_51 and the Jacobi identity in formula_15.\n\nExplicitly, the differential of the formula_22-cochain formula_54 is the formula_55-cochain formula_56 given by:\n\nformula_57\n\nwhere the caret signifies omitting that argument.\n\nWhen formula_1 is a real Lie group with Lie algebra formula_15, the Chevalley–Eilenberg complex may also be canonically identified with the space of left-invariant forms with values in formula_18, denoted by formula_61. The Chevalley–Eilenberg differential may then be thought of as a restriction of the covariant derivative on the trivial fiber bundle formula_62, equipped with the equivariant connection formula_63 associated with the left action formula_42 of formula_15 on formula_18. In the particular case where formula_67 is equipped with the trivial action of formula_15, the Chevalley–Eilenberg differential coincides with the restriction of the de Rham differential on formula_69 to the subspace of left-invariant differential forms.\n\nThe zeroth cohomology group is (by definition) the invariants of the Lie algebra acting on the module:\n\nThe first cohomology group is the space of derivations modulo the space of inner derivations\nwhere a derivation is a map formula_46 from the Lie algebra to formula_18 such that\nand is called inner if it is given by \nfor some formula_76 in formula_18.\n\nThe second cohomology group \nis the space of equivalence classes of Lie algebra extensions\nof the Lie algebra by the module formula_18.\n\nSimilarly, any element of the cohomology group formula_81 gives an equivalence class of ways to extend the Lie algebra formula_15 to a \"Lie formula_22-algebra\" with formula_15 in grade zero and formula_18 in grade formula_22. A Lie formula_22-algebra is a homotopy Lie algebra with nonzero terms only in degrees 0 through formula_22.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096677", "title": "Olmstead v. United States", "text": "Olmstead v. United States\n\nOlmstead v. United States, 277 U.S. 438 (1928), was a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, in which the Court reviewed whether the use of wiretapped private telephone conversations, obtained by federal agents without judicial approval and subsequently used as evidence, constituted a violation of the defendant’s rights provided by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. In a 5–4 decision, the Court held that neither the Fourth Amendment nor the Fifth Amendment rights of the defendant were violated. This decision was later overturned by \"Katz v. United States\" in 1967.\n\nUntil 1914, the American judicial system, including the Supreme Court of the United States, largely followed the precepts of English common law when it came to matters dealing with the validity of introducing evidence in criminal trials. In most cases, the general philosophy was that the process by which the evidence was obtained had little to do with admissibility in court. The only limiting factor was that the police agents could not break the law to seize the evidence; however, since what is now illegal seizure was then permitted by the courts, it rarely presented a significant challenge.\n\nIn 1914, however, in the landmark case of \"Weeks v. United States\", the Court held unanimously that illegal seizure of items from a private residence was a violation of the Fourth Amendment, and established the exclusionary rule that prohibits admission of illegally obtained evidence in federal courts. Because the Bill of Rights did not at the time extend to cover states, such a prohibition extended only to federal agents and covered only federal trials. It was not until the case of \"Mapp v. Ohio\" (1961) that the exclusionary rule was extended to state courts as well.\n\nThe question here, then, was whether the recordings of wiretapped private telephone conversations constituted impermissibly-seized evidence and thus constituted a violation of the federal exclusionary rule.\n\nThe case concerned several petitioners, including Roy Olmstead, who challenged their convictions, arguing that the use of evidence of wiretapped private telephone conversations amounted to a violation of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments.\n\nThe petitioners were convicted for alleged conspiracy to violate the National Prohibition Act by unlawfully possessing, transporting, and selling alcohol. Seventy-two additional persons, aside from the petitioners, were indicted. The evidence provided by the wiretapped telephone conversations disclosed \"a conspiracy of amazing magnitude\" to engage in bootlegging, involving the employment of some fifty persons, use of sea vessels for transportation, an underground storage facility in Seattle, and the maintenance of a central office fully equipped with executives, bookkeepers, salesmen, and an attorney. According to the record, even in a bad month, the sales amounted to some $176,000; the grand total for a year probably came out to some $2 million.\n\nOlmstead was the general manager of this business, receiving fifty percent of all the profits. The information that led to the discovery of his involvement and the conspiracy itself was largely obtained by four federal Prohibition officers who were able to intercept messages on his and other conspirators' telephones. No laws were violated in installing the wiretapping equipment, as the officers did not trespass upon either the homes or the offices of the defendants; instead, the equipment was placed in the streets near the houses and in the basement of the large office building.\n\nThe wiretapping went on for several months, and the records revealed significant details on the business transactions of the petitioners and their employees. Stenographic notes were made of the conversations, and their accuracy was testified to by the government witnesses. The evidence disclosed full details of the operations of the bootlegging business; in addition, it showed the relationship between Olmstead with members of the Seattle police, which resulted in prompt release of some of the arrested members of the conspiracy and promises to officers of payment.\n\nChief Justice William Howard Taft delivered the opinion of the Court.\n\nWriting for the Court, Chief Justice Taft was joined by Justices McReynolds, Sanford, Sutherland, and Van Devanter. After outlining the factual and procedural history of the case, Chief Justice Taft lists the relevant amendments – the Fourth and Fifth – and proceeds to examine the legal matters and precedents in question.\n\n\"Boyd v. United States\" concerned the Act of June 22, 1874 (19 USCA 535), which provided per section 5, a United States attorney with the power to use a marshal to obtain evidence that the defendant had refused to provide, in cases that were not criminal under the revenue laws. The Court held that Act of 1874 was a violation of the Fourth and Fifth Amendment, even though it did not constitute a clear case of search and seizure.\n\nChief Justice Taft next examines \"perhaps the most important\" case, \"Weeks v. United States\", which involved a conviction for using the mail to transport lottery tickets. The defendant was arrested by a police officer without a warrant, and subsequent to the arrest, the defendant’s house was searched and a number of papers and articles was seized despite the lack of a search warrant. Although the defendant applied for and successfully obtained a court order directing the return of his property, he was denied return of relevant evidence. He appealed; the Court held that such taking of papers was in violation of the constitutional rights of the defendant, and that the trial court could not permit their use at trial.\n\nChief Justice Taft cites several other cases (\"Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States\", \"Amos v. United States\", \"Gouled v. United States\", and \"Agnello v. United States\"), and concludes that there is no permissible way to apply the Fifth Amendment to this case unless it could be shown that the Fourth Amendment was first violated. In this instance, there is no evidence that the defendants were in any way compelled to talk over their telephones, and were voluntarily engaging in business. Thus, “our consideration must be confined to the Fourth Amendment.”\n\nTaft writes that the aggregate outcome of the Weeks case and those that followed it was that the Fourth Amendment forbade the introduction of evidence in court if it had been obtained in violation of the amendment. This is in compliance with the historical purpose of the Fourth Amendment, as it was in part intended to prevent the use of governmental force to search and seize a man’s personal property and effects.\n\nWhile it may seem that the language of Justice Field in \"ex parte Jackson\" could be viewed as an analogy to the interpretation of the Fourth Amendment \"qua\" wiretapping, Taft believes that the analogy fails. The Fourth Amendment applies to sealed letters in the mail because there exists a constitutional provision for the federal postal office and the relationship between the government and those “who pay to secure protection of their sealed letters.” However, the United States does not take such care with telegraphic and telephonic messages as it applies to mailed sealed letters, and Taft is quite emphatic in drawing the distinction:\n\n\"The amendment does not forbid what was done here. There was no searching. There was no seizure. The evidence was secured by the use of the sense of hearing and that only. There was no entry of the houses or offices of the defendants.\"\n\nHe points out that one can talk with another at a great distance via telephone, and suggests that because the connecting wires were not a part of either the petitioners’ houses or offices, they cannot be held subject to the protections of the Fourth Amendment.\n\nTaft, in keeping with his personal judicial philosophy, suggests that Congress may \"of course\" extend such protections to telephone conversations by passing direct legislation that would prohibit their use in federal criminal trials. Until such legislation is passed, however, \"the courts may not adopt such a policy by attributing an enlarged and unusual meaning to the Fourth Amendment,\" as there are no precedents that permit the Fourth Amendment to apply as a viable defense in cases where there had been no official search and seizure of the person, his papers, tangible material effects, or an actual physical invasion of property.\n\nHe concludes that such wiretapping as occurred in this case did not amount to a search or seizure within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment.\n\nAssociate Justice Louis Brandeis wrote a dissenting opinion that in subsequent years became very famous. In 2018 the \"famous dissent\" was cited affirmatively by the majority opinion in \"Carpenter v. United States\" for the proposition that the United States Supreme Court is obligated to ensure that the \"progress of science\" does not erode Fourth Amendment protections as \"subtler and more far-reaching means of invading privacy... become available to the Government\".\n\nBrandeis's dissent begins by noting that the Government made no attempt to defend the methods employed by federal agents, and, in fact, conceded that if wiretapping could be deemed a search or seizure, such wiretapping as took place in this case would be unreasonable search and seizure and thus inadmissible in court. However, it claimed that the protections of the amendment do not extend to telephone conversations.\n\nBrandeis attacks the proposition that expanding the Fourth Amendment to include protection of telephone conversations was inappropriate. At the time of the adoption of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments, he writes, “force and violence” were the only means by which the government could compel self-incrimination. Thus, the protections offered by these Amendments were necessarily limited to address only imaginable forms of such force and violence.\n\nHowever, with the technological advances, the government has received the ability to invade privacy in more subtle ways; further, there is no reason to think that the rate of such technological advances will slow down. “Can it be that the Constitution affords no protection against such invasions of individual security?”, Brandeis asks. He answers that a clear negative answer is evident in \"Boyd v. United States\".\n\nBrandeis argues that the mail is a public service furnished by the government, and the telephone is \"a public service furnished by its authority.\" He concludes that there is no difference between a private telephone conversation and a sealed letter. In fact, he writes, \"the evil incident to invasion of the privacy of the telephone is far greater than that involved in tampering with the mails.\"\n\nIn its past rulings, the Court has refused to read a literal construction of the Fourth Amendment, most notably in the \"Boyd\" case. Unjustified search and seizure violate the Fourth Amendment, and it does not matter what type of papers were seized, whether the papers were in an office or a home, whether the papers were seized by force, etc. The protection guaranteed by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments are broad in scope. The framers of the Constitution sought \"to protect Americans in their beliefs, their thoughts, their emotions, and their sensations.\" It is for this reason that they established, as against the government, the right to be let alone as \"the most comprehensive of rights and the right most valued by civilized men. To protect that right, every unjustifiable intrusion by the government upon the privacy of the individual, whatever the means employed, must be deemed a violation of the Fourth Amendment. And the use, as evidence in a criminal proceeding, of facts ascertained by such intrusion must be deemed a violation of the Fifth.\"\n\nBrandeis argues further that even independently of the constitutional question, the judgment should be reversed. By the law of Washington, wiretapping is a crime, and a federal court should not permit a prosecution that makes use of such crime to continue. The Eighteenth Amendment did not empower Congress to authorize anyone, federal agents or not, to violate the criminal laws of a state; nor has Congress ever purported to do so. These unlawful acts were not directed by the Attorney General or the Secretary of Treasury; they were committed by individual officers. Thus, the government was innocent from a legal point of view, since it did not direct its agents to commit a crime on its behalf. However, when it sought to \"avail itself of the fruits of these acts\" to convict the defendants, \"it assumed moral responsibility for the officers' crimes.\" If the Supreme Court were to permit the government to punish the defendants by the sole means of its officers’ transgressions, it would present all the elements of a ratification. \"If so, the government itself would become a lawbreaker.\"\n\nBrandeis cites an old maxim of unclean hands, inherited from courts of equity, whereby a court will not redress a wrong when he who has requested its aid has unclean hands. This principle, he believes, is very much relevant here. The Court should deny its aid in order to maintain respect for law to promote confidence in the administration of justice and preserve the judicial process from contamination.\n\nWe must subject government officials to the same rules of conduct that we expect of the citizen. The very existence of the government is imperiled if it fails to observe the law scrupulously. As Brandeis puts it, \"if the government becomes a lawbreaker, it breeds contempt for law; it invites every man to become a law unto himself; it invites anarchy. To declare that in the administration of the criminal law the end justifies the means—to declare that the government may commit crimes in order to secure the conviction of a private criminal—would bring terrible retribution. Against that pernicious doctrine this court should resolutely set its face.\"\n\nJustice Brandeis' opinion was quoted by Timothy McVeigh at his trial for the bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City. After remaining silent throughout his trial, he was asked before sentencing if he would like to make a statement. He responded \"I wish instead to use the words of Justice Brandeis dissenting in \"Olmstead\" to speak for me. He wrote 'Our government is the potent, the omnipresent teacher. For good or ill, it teaches the whole people by its example.'\"\n\nCiting the extensive dissent filed by Brandeis, Holmes says that he need \"add but a few words.\" While he is not ready to say that the penumbra of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments covers the defendant, he does concur that even apart from the Constitution, the government should be prohibited to use evidence obtained (and only obtainable) by a criminal act. Holmes writes that in his opinion, it would be a lesser evil that some criminals should escape prosecution than that the government \"should play an ignoble part.\"\n\nJustice Butler begins his dissent by registering his regret for being unable to support the opinion and judgments of the Court. Because the writ of certiorari limited the counsel’s arguments only to the constitutional question, he writes that it does not participate in the controversy of the admissibility of evidence because \"the mode of obtaining it was unethical and a misdemeanor under state law.\"\n\nThe sole question that he considers is whether the government may direct its officers to engage in wiretapping without violating the search and seizure clause of the Fourth Amendment.\n\nButler writes that though there was no direct search and seizure in \"Boyd v. United States\", the Court still found such exercise as occurred in that case to be in violation of the constitutional protections afforded to the criminal defendant. The Court does not limit its decisions to the literal meaning of the words of the Constitution. \"Under the principles established and applied by this court, the Fourth Amendment safeguards against all evils that are like and equivalent to those embraced within the ordinary meaning of its words.\" Thus, when all these facts are evaluated, Butler concludes \"with great deference,\" that the petitioners should be given a new trial.\n\nJustice Stone concurs in the opinions of Justice Holmes and Justice Brandeis, and also with that of Justice Butler insofar as it deals with the merits. Though the order granting certiorari did indeed limit the argument to a single question, Justice Stone does not believe that it prevents the Court from considering any questions present in the record.\n\nMr. Olmstead spent his 4 year prison sentence at the McNeil Island Correctional Institute. He then became a carpenter. On December 25, 1935, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt granted him a full presidential pardon. Besides restoring his constitutional rights, the pardon remitted him $10,300 dollars in costs (about $ in today's dollars). Eventually, Mr. Olmstead became a well-known, full-time Christian Science practitioner, who also worked with prison inmates on an anti-alcoholism agenda for decades until his death in April 1966 at the age of 79—just over a year and a half before the Supreme Court issued its decision in \"Katz v. United States\" reversing its holding against him. This overrule rejected the conclusion of Olmstead v. United States, by insisting that the Fourth Amendment was not \"limited to certain areas or to tangible objects\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096679", "title": "Sumas 2", "text": "Sumas 2\n\nSumas 2 was a proposal for an additional cogeneration electric power plant in the town of Sumas, Washington near the Canada–United States border. The excess heat from this generator was to be used by a wood products processing company. The original proposal came in 1999, and was revised twice in 2000 and 2001. It was approved in 2004 by the governor of Washington state. A power transmission line was to be constructed to a sub-station in Abbotsford, British Columbia but the Canadian National Energy Board in 2004 and the Supreme Court of Canada in 2006 denied permission to construct the transmission line. Sumas Energy 2.inc, the company behind the proposal, requested that the Washington's Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council terminate their Site Certification Agreement. This occurred in April 2006.\n\nThere is already a cogeneration plant in Sumas [SE1]. This proposal would have added a second plant [SE2]. This proposal was considered controversial because it burns natural gas to generate power and the resulting pollutants would have drifted up the valley, adding to pollution already generated by the populous Lower Mainland of British Columbia, which includes Vancouver.\n\nThe proposed second plant would be five times larger than the existing plant. The proposed site was over an active fault, placing the proposed 16 inch high pressure natural gas line and tanks containing hazardous fuels and chemicals in danger. A high pressure natural gas line had just recently exploded in the foothills near the proposed site due to shifting soils. An aquifer serving much of Whatcom County and Abbotsford, British Columbia is located directly beneath the site.\n\nThe site is in a floodplain that has experienced recent floods strong enough to sweep vehicles off roadways. The proposed fill for the plant would displace floodwaters onto neighboring farms and homes, increasing flood depths by up to a foot.\n\nAir emissions from the plant were predicted to be up to 3 tons per day of criteria pollutants.\n\nThe Washington State Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council initially denied the project, but NESCO resubmitted their application for reconsideration without the diesel component that was contained in their initial application.\n\nThe National Energy Board received approximately 25,000 letters regarding the project, mostly in opposition.\n"}
{"id": "2096680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096680", "title": "Cyberinfrastructure", "text": "Cyberinfrastructure\n\nUnited States federal research funders use the term cyberinfrastructure to describe research environments that support advanced data acquisition, data storage, data management, data integration, data mining, data visualization and other computing and information processing services distributed over the Internet beyond the scope of a single institution. In scientific usage, cyberinfrastructure is a technological and sociological solution to the problem of efficiently connecting laboratories, data, computers, and people with the goal of enabling derivation of novel scientific theories and knowledge.\n\nThe term National Information Infrastructure had been popularized by Al Gore in the 1990s. This use of the term \"cyberinfrastructure\" evolved from the same thinking that produced Presidential Decision Directive NSC-63 on Protecting America's Critical Infrastructures (PDD-63). PDD-63 focuses on the security and vulnerability of the nation's \"cyber-based information systems\" as well as the critical infrastructures on which America's military strength and economic well-being depend, such as the electric power grid, transportation networks, potable water and wastewater infrastructures.\n\nThe term \"cyberinfrastructure\" was used in a press briefing on PDD-63 on May 22, 1998 with Richard A. Clarke, then national coordinator for security, infrastructure protection, and counter-terrorism, and Jeffrey Hunker, who had just been named director of the critical infrastructure assurance office. Hunker stated:\n\n\"One of the key conclusions of the President's commission that laid the intellectual framework for the President's announcement today was that while we certainly have a history of some real attacks, some very serious, to our cyber-infrastructure, the real threat lay in the future. And we can't say whether that's tomorrow or years hence. But we've been very successful as a country and as an economy in wiring together our critical infrastructures. This is a development that's taken place really over the last 10 or 15 years—the Internet, most obviously, but electric power, transportation systems, our banking and financial systems.\"\n\nThe term \"cyberinfrastructure\" was used by a US National Science Foundation (NSF) blue-ribbon committee in 2003 in response to the question: how can NSF, as the nation's premier agency funding basic research, remove existing barriers to the rapid evolution of high performance computing, making it truly usable by all the nation's scientists, engineers, scholars, and citizens? The NSF use of the term focuses on the integrated assemblage of these information technologies with one another.\n\nA workshop on cyberinfrastructure for the social sciences was held in San Diego, California in May 2005. Another conference was held in January 2007 in Washington, D.C.\nA \"CyberInfrastructure Partnership\" existed from February 2005 until 2009.\nA collaboration led by the University of Wisconsin–Madison and Boston University had a web site called \"Engaging People in Cyberinfrastructure\" (EPIC) which existed from 2005 through 2007. Two NSF sponsored workshops on Financial Cyberinfrastructure were organized in 2010 and 2012 by Louiqa Raschid and Albert \"Pete\" Kyle University of Maryland, H.V. Jagadish University of Michigan and Mark Flood Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury.\n\nComplementing the technical construction of cyberinfrastructure, social scientists in the field of computer supported cooperative work investigate the organizational and social aspects of building these large-scale, distributed resources to support science. Related to this research space is the notion of the collaboratory, originally coined by William Wulf.\n\nCyberinfrastructure is more often called e-Science or e-Research. In particular, the United Kingdom started an e-Science initiative in 2001.; the Systems Geology initiative of the British Geological Survey is an example.\nOthers distinguish e-Science as the work that is done using the cyberinfrastructure.\n\nThere are many inter-governmental advisory groups related to Cyberinfrastructure aspects like E-Infrastructures Reflection Group and European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures dealing with policies on electronic infrastructures for research, i.e. research networks, computing, software and data infrastructures that mainly serve students, researchers and scientists. They advise and recommend actions towards the European Commission (DG CONNECT), the EU Member states governments (Research or Science Ministries), e-Infrastructure providers and users.\n\nNSF's Office of Cyberinfrastructure, for example, supported the TeraGrid project in which the Grid Infrastructure Group led by University of Chicago provided integration of resources and services that were operated by some of the US's supercomputing centers. This project has now evolved to the Extreme Science and Engineering Discovery Environment (XSEDE) project, led by the National Center for Supercomputing Applications.\n\nThe nanoHUB and its HUBzero software originally funded in 2002 is an important cyberinfrastructure that is seeing continued usage.\nCyberinfrastructure is often specialized toward domains in science and engineering. For example, NSF funded a large cyberinfrastructure for earthquake engineering called NEEShub at Purdue University from 2009-15. NSF funded the iPlant Collaborative in 2008 to support plant sciences, including data-intensive plant genomics and phylogenetics. Mississippi State University created an Integrated Computational Materials Engineering (ICME) cyberinfrastructure in 2010 that focuses on multiscale modeling.\n\nThe United States Department of Energy supports e-Science through high performance computing and other initiatives involving its laboratories, including:\n\n\nThe Department of Energy (Office of Science SciDAC-2 program from the High Energy Physics, Nuclear Physics and Advanced Software and Computing Research programs) and NSF (Math and Physical Sciences, Office of Cyberinfrastructure and Office of International Science and Engineering Directorates) support the Open Science Grid which is a consortium of more than 80 member institutions and alliances.\n\nOther examples include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096695", "title": "George Nowlan", "text": "George Nowlan\n\nGeorge Clyde Nowlan, (14 August 1898 – 31 May 1965) was a Canadian member of Parliament and Cabinet Minister. A member of the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada, he served from 9 August 1962–21 April 1963 as the Minister of Finance in the administration of John Diefenbaker, and was also responsible for the CBC.\n\nIn addition to serving as an MP, Nowlan was a soldier in the Canadian Expeditionary Force during the First World War. After the war ended, he returned to the Annapolis Valley of Nova Scotia and attended Acadia University to study for a BA, graduating in 1920. He then studied law at Dalhousie University.\n\nNowlan was an MLA in the Nova Scotia Legislature in the 1920s, and was always known for his reputation as a hard worker and a Party Man. He served a term as the Progressive Conservative Party's president. While serving as Minister of National Revenue in 1962, he forbid Customs to censor or ban entrance to any publication unless a Canadian court had already ruled it to be \"obscene\", rather than using their own discretion. Five years later, this was overturned.\n\nDisagreements between Nowlan and Diefenbaker are widely believed to have been at the heart of the PC government, allowing it to be reduced to a minority government in the 1962 federal election and then defeated a year later by a vote of no confidence by Lester Pearson and the Liberal Party in the 1963 election.\n\nHis son Pat Nowlan later became a Progressive Conservative (and later Independent Progressive Conservative) MP in Nowlan's riding of Kings County.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096699", "title": "Carboxylate", "text": "Carboxylate\n\nA carboxylate is the conjugate base of a carboxylic acid.\n\n\"Carboxylate salts\" have the general formula M(RCOO), where M is a metal and \"n\" is 1, 2...; \"carboxylate esters\" have the general formula RCOOR′ (or RCOR′). R and R′ are organic groups; R′ ≠ H.\n\nA carboxylate ion is the conjugate base of a carboxylic acid, RCOO (or (or RCO). It is an ion with negative charge.\n\nCarboxylate ions can be formed by deprotonation of carboxylic acids. Such acids typically have pK of approximately <5 meaning that they can be deprotonated by many bases, such as sodium hydroxide or sodium bicarbonate. \n\n<chem>RCO2H + NaOH -> RCO2Na + H2O</chem>\n\nCarboxylic acids easily dissociate into a carboxylate anion and a positively charged hydrogen ion (proton), much more readily than alcohols do (into an alkoxide ion and a proton), because the carboxylate ion is stabilized by resonance. The negative charge that is left after deprotonation of the carboxyl group is delocalized between the two electronegative oxygen atoms in a resonance structure. If the R group is an electron-withdrawing group (such as -CF), the basicity of the carboxylate will be further weakened.\n\nThis delocalization of the electron cloud means that both of the oxygen atoms are less strongly negatively charged; the positive proton is therefore less strongly attracted back to the carboxylate group once it has left; hence, the carboxylate ion is more stable and less basic as a result of resonance stabilization of the negative charge. In contrast, an alkoxide ion, once formed, would have a strong negative charge localized on its lone oxygen atom, which would strongly attract any nearby protons (indeed, alkoxides are very strong bases). Because of resonance stabilization, carboxylic acids have much lower pKa values (and are therefore stronger acids) than alcohols. For example, the pKa value of acetic acid is 4.9 while ethanol has a pKa of 16. Hence acetic acid is a much stronger acid than ethanol. This in turn means that for equimolar solutions of a carboxylic acid and an alcohol, the carboxylic acid would have a much lower pH.\n\nCarboxylate ions are good nucleophiles. They react with alkyl halides to form ester. The following reaction shows the reaction  mechanism.\n\nThe nucleophilicity of carboxylate ions are much weaker than that of hydroxide and alkoxide ions, but stronger than halide anions (in a polar aprotic solvent, though there are other effects such as solubility of the ion).\n\nUnlike the reduction of ester, the reduction of carboxylate is different, due to the lack of the leaving group and the relatively electron-rich carbon atom (due to the negative charge on the oxygen atoms) . With small amount of acid, the reaction occurs with lithium aluminium hydride by changing the LAH into a Lewis acid, AlH in the process, converting the oxyanion to 4 Al-O bonds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096702", "title": "Bop It", "text": "Bop It\n\nBop It toys are a line of audio games. By following a series of commands issued through voice recordings produced by a speaker by the toy, which has multiple inputs including pressable buttons, pull handles, twisting cranks, spinnable wheels, flickable switches – the player progresses and the pace of the game increases.\n\nBased on concepts originally patented by Dan Klitsner, \"Bop It\" was licensed to Hasbro and further developed there by a number of designers including Bob Welch. With newer versions, additional inputs have been added or altered such that units like the 2010 \"Bop-It! Bounce\" shares no inputs in common with the original 1996. \"Bop It\" (see below).\n\nBop It has been identified as some of the more popular children's games on the market, and toy and game development researchers have pointed to the natural interactions between player and toy, and the ability of players to use the toy to revert computer gaming processes back into those that resemble non-mediated object play. Other studies have shown that it is the \"Bop It\"'s ability to mimic engagement in social behavior that has led to its commercial successes. Bop It has been released in many foreign languages since its re-release in 2008. With all models by KID Group, the team have managed to find voice actors to record the voice for the most popular languages in the world such as French, German, Italian, Latin American Spanish, European Spanish, Danish and Portuguese. There was also a Japanese version released. When the manufacturer access the hidden diagnostic test mode the English voice announces what version of Bop It the country is linked to. So if it is a Latin American Spanish Bop It from 2016, the English voice will say \"Latin America 3\".\n\nSince 2008, the voice of Bop It has been Buddy Rubino. Rubino has voiced all the modern Bop It games which include: Bop It!, Bop It! XT, Bop It! Smash, Bop It! Tetris, Bop It! Micro (original recordings from Bop It!), Bop It! New Moves and Bop It! Maker. He says in an interview with The Guardian that \"he never heard of Bop It so when he knew that he booked the audition, he researched what the game was.\" He also said that he enjoyed recording the remarks on which the game says when you lose. He also voiced a few mobile apps for Hasbro and some video games. Bop It has sold over 30 million units worldwide.\n\nIn 1996, the instructions to a handheld voice game called \"Bop It\" were copyrighted. This game was the first of what was later to become a series of \"Bop It\" games relying on the same set of basic patents. The original game, called simply \"Bop It\", features three inputs — \"Bop it!\" (a depressible button), \"Twist it!\" (a twistable lever) and \"Pull it!\" (a pullable handle) — and three game modes: Solo Bop, Vox Bop and Beat Bop. Gameplay is predicated upon a player's efforts to match the commands issued by the \"Bop It\" in a timely manner by performing the task that is commanded. Thus if the \"Bop It\" is to call out \"Bop it!\", the player must quickly depress the \"Bop It!\" button. If the \"Bop It\" is to call out \"Twist it!\", the player must quickly turn the \"Twist it!\" crank. If the \"Bop It\" is to call out \"Pull it!\", the player must quickly pull the \"Pull It!\" handle. Players' scores are announced at the end of gameplay with a cypher in which different tones represent different point values and the maximum possible score is 100. In 2000, a second edition model was made which can score up to 200. In the 2000 release at the end sequence, each \"Pull It!\" whistle denotes 100 points, each ratchet denotes 10, and each drum denotes 1 point. If the player reaches 200 points, the game will just play the victory song. This style of score-reporting would later recur in later \"Bop It\" models, and the \"Zing It\" spin off (\"see below\"). The same cypher values were used for all subsequent \"Bop It\" cyphers. This device requires 3 AA batteries.\n\nIn 1998, Hasbro copyrighted its instructions for the \"Bop It Extreme,\" describing the underlying patents as \"pending.\" This game included the additional commands \"Flick it!\" (a green zigzag lever) and \"Spin it!\" (a red wheel) along with the original three from \"Bop It\". The game featured 4 game modes (Vox Bop, Beat Bop, Vox Bop Solo and Beat Bop Solo), and the maximum score (reported via cypher) was increased to 250. As with the earlier \"Bop It\" model, special victory songs were unlocked upon completion. Thus, achieving a score of 100 or greater rewards the player with an additional victory song after the announcement of the score. On reaching 150 inputs, a different special victory celebration plays, and achievement of the maximum score would trigger a yet different special victory ending. This device requires 3 AA batteries.\n\nIn 2003, this model was one of the top games in the market.\n\nPartially reliant on the original \"Bop It\"'s 2000 patent, the \"Bop It Extreme 2\" also relied on the newly issued 2001 patent describing the layout changes that had been adopted for use in the \"Bop It Extreme\". With its instructions copyrighted in 2002, the layout of Hasbro's \"Bop It Extreme 2\" was shown to be altered from that of \"Bop It Extreme\". The shapes of several inputs were also altered. Volume controls were added, and the method of score reporting was changed to using plain English. In addition to the four modes featured in \"Bop It Extreme\", a \"One on One\" mode was added. \"Bop It Extreme 2\" was awarded \"Electronic Game of the Year 2005\" in the UK. This device requires 3 AA batteries.\n\n\"Bop It Extreme 2\" was made in black, white, and pink variants. The Bop it Extreme 2 like the Bop it Extreme has a maximum score of 250. Hasbro also released a German-speaking version with the name \"Simon Challenge\".\n\nAs described in its instruction manual (copyright 2004), Hasbro's Bratz-themed \"Bop It\" game uses a layout like that of the earlier (3-input) \"Bop It\" format. The maximum score in \"Bratz Bop It\" had the same scoring as the original \"Bop It\" re-release with a victory song playing after the score cypher for scores of over 100 points. \"Bratz Bop It\" requires 3 AAA batteries to operate.\n\nIn 2005, Hasbro copyrighted the instructions to \"Bop It Blast\", describing it as covered under the original (3-input) \"Bop It\" patent and referencing other patents that were pending. The game was also developed by Tiger Electronics. This member of the series again increased the maximum score to a total of 500, and for the first time allowed different high scores for different modes rather than having one high score for all modes collectively. Minor vocal additions were implemented such as the announcement of the player's score at notable landmarks (each 100 points scored). In addition to the six modes from \"Bop It Extreme 2\", a \"Light Bop\" mode was added. The game also had an optional female voice. The game can allow the player to select a male, female, or both voices calling the commands. The same victory song from the original \"Bop It\" was used to report the 500 highest score. The sound effects and backing beats from this version were used for the current release of Bop It's. This device requires 3 AA batteries to operate.\n\nIn 2006, Hasbro copyrighted the instructions to \"Bop It Download\", describing it as covered under the 5-input Bop It patent and referencing other patents that are pending. Tiger Electronics also developed the game. This member of the Bop It line has three game modes - Solo, Pass It and One-on-One and has 15 levels of difficulty. The maximum score is 1000 and this Bop It lets the player download a program on a Windows computer to download new content. The software was discontinued a few years later when Bop It Download was discontinued by Hasbro. The 'level up' sound was taken from this Bop It to be re-used in newer Bop It models such as the Bop It! and the Bop It! XT.\n\nIn 2008, Hasbro secured the copyrights to the instructions for \"Bop It!\". At the 2009 New York Toy Fair and at the London Toy Fair, Hasbro allowed attendees to try out \"Bop It!\". \"Bop It!\" has a new optional input \"Shout It\", which requires a player to shout into the microphone. The \"Bop It!\" has three difficulty levels: \"Novice\", using only voice commands, \"Expert\", using a random mix of voice and sound commands, and \"Master\", calling out voice, sound, and color commands. If the player scores 100 points in either of the less difficult modes, the next most difficult mode is unlocked. Players that achieve a score of 100 points in \"Master\" mode are considered to have beaten the game. Hasbro also added a multi-player game called \"Party\" where all the \"Bop It\" commands are replaced with body parts like \"foot\", \"hip\", and \"arm\". \"Bop It!\" requires 3 AAA batteries to operate and when the game turns off it will say \"I'm going to sleep\". All future Bop It's made by KID Group feature this sound.\n\nAfter securing the copyrights to the instructions in 2009, Hasbro made announcements regarding the newest member of the \"Bop It\" game line, entitled \"Bop-It! Bounce\" during the 2010 Hasbro Toy Fair. The toy was also developed by Big Monster Toys. This toy features a ball and a small hand-held trampoline. There are six games that may be played on \"Bop It! Bounce\" including three games that emphasize the speed or number of bounces and three games that emphasize the player's ability to control the height of the bounces.\n\nIn 2010, the instructions for the \"Bop It! XT\" were copyrighted. The \"Bop It! XT\" is the fourth edition of \"Bop It Extreme\" with the same commands but adding a new command, \"Shake It\". Also, \"Spin It\" is now orange. The game was demonstrated at the London Toy Fair and was released in 2011. The \"Bop It! XT\" is based on the gameplay of the \"Bop It!\" and returns the \"One on One\" mode and adds the new Pro level. In order to beat \"Bop-It! XT\", the player is given a set of three commands to remember and must perform them in order with a mix of voice, sound and color commands 100 times.\n\nIn 2012, Hasbro introduced \"Bop-It! Smash\" at the New York Toy Fair. \"Bop-It! Smash\" features color-changing lights in a central area called \"The Zone\". Players score by \"smashing\" two Bop-It! buttons together when a zone light is either green or blue. Bop-It! Smash has 3 various game modes: Solo, Pass It and Multi-player.\n\nIn Solo mode, the player scores five points for smashing a blue light and one point for smashing the green. If the player smashes the amber light, the voice will say \"Yow!\" (followed by a negative comment such as: \"Try harder!\") and a game life will be deducted. After 4 rounds, the level is completed and a Bonus Round will begin. The player can get 5 or more bonus points. The highest number of bonus points a player can score in the bonus round is 105 and the player can break the programming and score over 1000 with the voice not being able to announce the score at the end of the game. After the level 5 bonus round, the bonus round becomes twice as fast from level 6-10 making the game harder to score points. During a level (except bonus rounds) the player can earn a life back if they smash another blue light after smashing an amber. In the Pass It mode, the player has three attempts to try and smash a green or a blue. If they smash an orange light 3 times, then the game is over. In the Multi-player mode, up to 6 players can play. The winner is the last one surviving after all other players have lost all their lives.\n\nIn January 2013 The Tetris Company have announced that they have signed a deal with Hasbro to make some real life Tetris themed games with their brands. In August 2013, Hasbro launched a Jenga themed version of Tetris and a Bop It themed version of Tetris. It features a \"Marathon\" mode and additional modes based around different gameplay styles (Blast, Double Drop and Shuffle). A special Silver edition was also released in late 2013 only in the United States. In the Marathon mode, the player can take advantage of the bonus rounds to score over 800 points. The highest Marathon score ever achieved is 862 and is the current World Record for a full Marathon. The highest number of bonus points is 80 but it can only be done in 2 different bonus round patterns.\n\nIn 2013, Hasbro released a game called \"Bop It! Beats\" which first appeared on Amazon in December 2013. \"Bop It! Beats\" has five game modes - Classic, Classic Party, DJ, DJ Party and Remix and has three difficulty levels – Rookie, Expert and Lights Only. It also has five actions - Bop It, Spin It, Scratch It, Reverse, Repeat and Flip It. In the Classic mode, there are 4 rounds and each of the two has a different set of songs that the game switches between. The first two are Pound the Alarm by Nicki Minaj and Levels by Avicii. In the second and fourth round, there are two songs that Hasbro chose to use in the game. One of them is Smash Dance remix by DJ Steve Porter. The highest score in Classic is 263 and the highest score in the DJ mode is 147 if played in the Expert level in the DJ Party mode. The game also has a Remix mode on which you can play any action sound effect you want on the turntable of the game. This particular Bop It has a glitch on which if the player reaches a 6 command pattern in the DJ Expert and Lights Only mode, the game will make the player fail. However, this glitch does not happen in a foreign-language version like the Spanish or the French versions.\n\nThe \"Bop It! Micro Series\" is a version of Bop It released in 2014 by Hasbro. It uses the three basic commands Bop It, Twist It and Pull It and it has two game modes - Solo and Pass It. The game also has three volume levels. The highest score in the \"Bop It! Micro\" is 100 and as the player scores closer to 100 the pitch of the gameplay will speed up. As Hasbro released it as a series of games - several character themed version of the Micro Bop It followed which include - Bop It R2D2, Bop It BB8, Bop It Groot and Bop It Minion. In Addition to these characters, Hasbro have released a Bop It Olaf and a Bop It Chewbacca in 2019.\n\nIn 2015, Hasbro copyrighted the instructions to a new model of Bop It to be released in 2016 called Bop It! New Moves (a.k.a. Bop It Refresh or the Bop It 2016). In January 2016, a YouTube channel called KIdsToysTester released a video of a working prototype of the game. In February 2016 at the New York Toy Fair, Hasbro demonstrated Bop It New Moves. The game was released worldwide in June 2016. The game has 3 main actions – Bop It, Twist It and Pull It and 10 actions that use a motion sensor. These actions include – Whip It, Drink It, Selfie It, Comb It, Answer It, Saw It, Hammer It, Cradle It, Sing It and Golf It. The game has six modes – Action, Action Pass It, Classic, Classic Pass It, Beat Bop and Beat Bop Pass It. The Action mode has a maximum score of 200 points and the Classic and Beat Bop mode has a maximum score of 100 points. The game is the first and only Bop It to have a motion detector that detects when to change the batteries. It will remind the player with a sad pitch changing voice saying \"My batteries are running low.\" when the batteries need changing.\n\nIn 2017, Hasbro released the follow up to the Bop It! New Moves called \"Bop It! Maker\". The game was first demonstrated at New York Toy Fair in 2017 and was released in July 2017. The \"Bop It! Maker\" has 10 slots available on where the player can record their custom moves for the game. The game has four new actions - Bop It, Roll It, Shout It and Squeeze It. The game has three modes - Solo, Party and Basic. In the Solo mode, the game uses the four moves and all the recorded moves. In the Party mode, the game plays like Solo but instead the \"Pass It\" command is issued. In the Basic mode, the voice says \"Bop It to Start!\" and plays a little faster than the Solo mode. Each mode can score up to 100 points.\n\nIn July 2000, the first patent for \"Bop It\" was issued. This patent covers all subsequent \"Bop It\" models, and was cited in the instructions for the re-release of the original \"Bop It\" (instructions copyrighted in 2000). The newer version of the original toy increased its maximum score to 200. In addition to the score-report cypher, the 2000 model made use of a special victory song that would play after the score if the player achieved a score of 100 points or greater. The use of victory songs associated with in-game point-plateaus would recur in later model \"Bop It\" games such as \"Bop It Extreme\" and \"Bratz Bop It\". The Bop It 2002 version requires 3 AAA batteries whilst the Bop It 2000 version requires 3 AA batteries.\n\nIn 2019, Hasbro released a new version of Bop It called the Bop It Classic. The game was released in the US in July 2019 with a worldwide release expected in the Autumn of 2019. The game has four modes - Solo, Pass It, Beat Bop Solo and Beat Bop Pass It and has three actions - Bop It, Twist It and Pull It. The game's programming is based on the Bop It Micro but it game unit is bigger than the Micro and looks like a Bop It from 2009. The recording of \"Beat Bop\" was taken from the 2016 Bop It whilst all the other voices were from the Bop It! Micro Series. Each game mode has a maximum score of 100 points.\n\nMini versions of several \"Bop It\" models have also been released throughout the duration of the series to be used as keychain carabiners and pens. Mini versions have been released for \"Bop It 1996\" and \"2002\", \"Bop It Extreme\", \"Bop It Extreme 2\", \"Bop It!\", and \"Bop It! XT\".\n\n\"Vox Bop\" is a multi-player game that serves as the primary game mode for the \"Bop It\" toy. A voice recording in the game machine calls out the commands randomly with a musical beat that increases in speed as the game progresses. The player must match the series of commands exactly and then the voice will call out \"Pass It!\" and the \"Bop It\" is passed to the next player. As the player passes the game to the next player, the game will play a short melody and then the intro beat will play again before the next command. A player is \"out\" of the game if the player performs the wrong action or if the player hesitates. This mode is also known as \"Vox Bop Pass It\" in \"Bop It Extreme 2\", and then simply \"Pass It\" in \"Bop It Download\", \"Bop It XT\", and \"Bop It!\".\n\n\"Vox Bop One on One\" is available on \"Bop It Extreme 2\", \"Bop It Blast\", \"Bop It Download\", and \"Bop It! XT\", though in \"Download\" and \"XT\" it is simply \"One on One\". In this multi-player game, two players each take hold of the \"Bop It\" with the yellow player holding the \"Twist It!\" crank and the \"Pull It!\" knob, and the green player holding the \"Flick It!\" lever and the \"Spin It!\" wheel. The unit calls out a series of commands and each player is responsible for only his or her assigned inputs. When the unit finally calls \"Bop It!\" both players must try to hit the \"Bop It!\" button on the side bearing their color first. The unit will announce which player was faster by which colored side of the button was depressed first. The winning player earns a point. If either player misses a call he is \"out\" of the game. The final winner is the player who gets to five points first and does not miss any commands.\n\nThe \"Beat Bop\" mode follows a similar format as the \"Vox Bop (with voice commands)\" mode (above) and the rules are roughly equivalent. The game mode is called “Lights Only” in Bop It Beats. The difference in \"Beat Bop\" mode is that the game uses sounds as commands instead of words. Thus:\n\n\n\"Solo Bop\" is the single-player mode for the original \"Bop It\". This game is substantially similar to \"Vox Bop (with voice commands)\", except the \"Pass It!\" command is never issued. Instead, when the player misses a command, the game ends and the score is reported. This mode is also known as \"Vox Bop Solo\" in \"Bop It Extreme\" and \"Bop It Extreme 2\", and simply \"Solo\" in \"Bop It!\" and Bop It XT!.\n\n\"Beat Bop Solo\" is only available for \"Bop It Extreme\" and \"Bop It Extreme 2\". This game is substantially similar to the \"Beat Bop (with musical commands)\" mode, except that the \"Pass It!\" command is never issued. Instead, when the player misses a command, the game ends and the score is reported.\n\nThe \"Light Bop\" mode is featured in \"Bop It Blast\" and \"Bop It Download\". The player must respond when the light and the command match together.\n\nIn the Master level on \"Bop It!\" and \"Bop It! XT\", color commands are issued. Color commands are also issued in the \"Pro\" mode on Bop It XT. \n\nIn 2009, EA Games released \"Hasbro Family Game Night 2\", a sequel to the earlier-released collection of Hasbro boardgames and toys, \"Hasbro Family Game Night\". \"Hasbro Family Game Night 2\" was released for the Nintendo Wii and the Nintendo DS and both versions featured \"Bop It\" as a playable simulation.\n\nIn 2011, EA Games released an app for the iPod Touch, iPhone and iPad. This app features several game modes, commands from the handheld games, X-Move bonuses and newer commands like \"Brush It!\", \"Crank It!\", \"Squeeze It!\", and \"Poke It!\".\n\nEA Games has also made \"\" which features \"Bop It\" as a playable simulation.\n\nChillingo made a Bop It Smash app for iOS.\n\nThe popularity of the \"Bop It\" line encouraged Hasbro to release a number of sister products.\n\n\"Zing It\" is a yo-yo-style audio game that, like \"Bop It\", issues commands with which the player must comply. Like the original \"Bop It\", three commands may be issued: \"Bop it!\", requiring the player to press the depress-able purple button, \"Zing it!\", requiring the player to throw the yo-yo downward and jerk it back up to the hand again, and \"Loop it!\", requiring the player to perform the \"round the world\" yo-yo trick. \"Zing It\" features three modes: \"Vox Bop\" (as with \"Bop It\" products), \"Beat Bop\" (as with \"Bop It\" products), and \"Vox Bop Challenge\", where the game will test mental pelmanism by issuing rapid strings of commands which must be subsequently performed in the correct order. As with \"Bop It\" and \"Bop It Extreme\", \"Zing It\" announces the score by musical cypher. Like the two \"Bop It Extreme\" games, \"Zing It\" has a maximum score of 250 and is announced by a horn, followed by a crowd clapping.\n\nThe \"Top It\" is a kendama-style audio game developed by Parker Bros. (under Hasbro) that also issues commands which a player must respond to with the appropriate action. Commands include \"Top it!\" (requiring the player to catch the ball in the red top cup), \"Flop it!\" (requiring the player to catch the ball in one of the purple side cups), and \"Flip it!\" (requiring the player to catch the ball in the purple side cup on the other side). The command structure has slightly fewer variations than any other Hasbro game, since the \"Flip it!\" command can only be issued if the \"Flop it!\" command directly precedes it.\n\nThe Torx is an audio game developed by Big Monster Toys under Hasbro that was released in 2000. The game has two twistable circles and two bendable objects that can bend in different angles 90 degrees. The game has four modes - Follow My Command, Find My Shape, Torx Says and Pass Torx. In Follow my Command, the game plays like a Bop It but the commands can get more complex. First the voice will say \"Twist me\" but then it can command the player to \"Twist me again\" or to \"Twist me back\". If it says \"Bend me\" it can command the player to \"Bend me back\", \"Bend the same side\" or \"Bend the other side\". Every 15 points, the game will announce \"Torx Challenge\" and give the player a sequence of commands to memorize. The challenge mode is similar to the one in Top It and Zing It and the player must start the sequence after Torx says \"Ready, go!\". In Find My Shape, the game unit will tell the player how close they are to the shape that Torx wants to be. It will give out directions like \"Cooler\", \"Hotter\" and when the player is near Torx will say \"On fire!\" and a sound effect will play if they find the shape. If the player is not near the correct shape, Torx will say \"Ice cold!\", \"Warm\" or \"Warmer\". In Torx Says, the game will produce 2 different tones. With a normal pitched Torx unit, if the player hears an F note, they must follow the command. If they hear a B flat note they must not follow the command. The game is over if the player beats the game or fails to respond or hesitate. In game four, the game will player like Game 1 but instead after a certain sequence of commands, the player will hear \"Pass Torx\". The maximum score in each game mode is 240.\n\n\"Groove It\" is an audio game made by Hasbro whose instructions have been copyrighted in 2003. With similar game play to the \"Bop It\" games, \"Groove It\" employs photodetection technology to determine the player's hand position. As with \"Bop It\" games, \"Groove It\" issues voice commands, however in this case the commands are: \"the scratch\", \"the slide\", and \"the zoom\". The game is more tolerant of errors than the \"Bop It\" games, allowing as many as three missed commands in some modes. The game requires a score of 250 to win, has a maximum score of 300, and employs a ranking system.\n\nIn 1999, a clone to the Bop It line of games was made by MGA Entertainment under the name Super Click-It, and it was also made under the name Bonk It. It was sold in the UK by Marks and Spencer in 2003. The game unit has five actions which are Squish It (a double sided yellow button that is pressed), Zip It (a lever that can be pushed up and down), Twist It (an orange knob that looks similar to the Twist It knob from the Bop It Extreme), Blast It (a green fan that when the command is issued will work either by blowing or using one finger to make it work.) and Crack It (an object that is designed to pull backwards and then to normal position). The game has two game modes which are: One Player with Voice Commands (the voice will say: \"One Player, Squish It!\" when the player presses the Squish It button to select the game mode), One Player with Sound Commands (The voice will say \"One Player\" with a Squish It sound effect). There are also two two-player game modes which are Two Player Voice Commands and Two Player Sound Commands.\n\nThe aim of the game is similar to Bop It where the game gives one command and the player has to obey and perform the action. The game has a maximum score of 100 points and on achieving the maximum score the player is celebrated with a fanfare. In the two-player game mode, the game can continue up to 200 points if one player has scored 100 first. In the two-player mode, the voice says \"Switch\" instead of \"Pass It\". Unlike \"Bop It\", the game gives the player more time to respond to the command. The game doesn't have any screaming sounds when the player performs the wrong action or runs out of time, instead, cartoon sound effects are heard such as the \"wa wa wa wa\" melody or a slip up sound effect when a cartoon character slips over a banana skin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096708", "title": "Dhaleshwari River", "text": "Dhaleshwari River\n\nThe Dhaleshwari River ( \"Dhôleshshori\") is a distributary, long, of the Jamuna River in central Bangladesh. It starts off the Jamuna near the northwestern tip of Tangail District. After that it divides into two branches: the north branch retains the name Dhaleshwari and merges with the other branch, the Kaliganga River at the southern part of Manikganj District. Finally the merged flow meets the Shitalakshya River near Narayanganj District. This combined flow goes southwards to merge into the Meghna River.\n\nAverage depth of river is and maximum depth is .\n\nThe Dhaleshwari is a branch of the Jamuna but probably used to be part of the main course of the Padma. The course of the Padma has changed considerably during the period 1600 to 2000 AD. It is difficult to trace accurately the various channels through which it has flowed. The probability is that it flowed past Rampur Boalia, through Chalan Beel, the Dhaleshwari and Buriganga rivers, past Dhaka into the Meghna estuary. In the 18th century, the lower course of the river flowed further south. About the middle of the 19th century the main volume of the channel flowed through this southern channel which came to be known as Kirtinasa. Gradually the Padma adopted its present course.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096710", "title": "Stovies", "text": "Stovies\n\nStovies, stovy tatties, stoved potatoes \"etc\", stovers or stovocks is a Scottish dish based on potatoes. Recipes and ingredients vary widely but the dish contains potatoes, fat, usually (but not always) onions and often (but again not always) pieces of meat. In some versions, other vegetables may also be added.\n\nThe potatoes are cooked by slow stewing in a closed pot with fat (lard, beef dripping or butter may be used) and often a small amount of water or sometimes other liquids, such as milk, stock or meat jelly. Stovies may be served accompanied by cold meat or oatcakes and, sometimes, with pickled beetroot.\n\n\"To stove\" means \"to stew\" in Scots. The term is from the French adjective \"étuvé\" which translates as braised. Versions without meat may be termed barfit and those with meat as high-heelers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096712", "title": "Bedroom in Arles", "text": "Bedroom in Arles\n\nBedroom in Arles (; ) is the title given to each of three similar paintings by 19th-century Dutch Post-Impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh.\n\nVan Gogh's own title for this composition was simply \"The Bedroom\" (French: \"La Chambre à coucher\"). There are three authentic versions described in his letters, easily distinguishable from one another by the pictures on the wall to the right.\n\nThe painting depicts van Gogh's bedroom at 2, Place Lamartine in Arles, Bouches-du-Rhône, France, known as the Yellow House. The door to the right opened on to the upper floor and the staircase; the door to the left was that of the guest room he held prepared for Gauguin; the window in the front wall looked on to Place Lamartine and its public gardens.\nThis room was not rectangular but trapezoid with an obtuse angle in the left hand corner of the front wall and an acute angle at the right.\n\nVan Gogh started the first version during mid October 1888 while staying in Arles, and explained his aims and means to his brother Theo:\nVan Gogh included sketches of the composition in this letter as well as in a letter to Gauguin, written slightly later. In the letter, van Gogh explained that the painting had come out of a sickness that left him bedridden for days. This version has on the wall to the right miniatures of van Gogh's portraits of his friends Eugène Boch and Paul-Eugène Milliet. \nThe portrait of Eugène Boch is called \"The Poet\" and the portrait of Paul Eugène Milliet is called \"The Lover.\"\n\nIn April 1889, van Gogh sent the initial version to his brother regretting that it had been damaged by the flood of the Rhône while he was interned at the Old Hospital in Arles. Theo proposed to have it relined and sent back to him in order to copy it. This \"repetition\" in original scale (Van Gogh's term was \"répetition\") was executed in September 1889. Both paintings were then sent back to Theo.\n\nIn summer, 1889, Van Gogh finally decided to redo some of his \"best\" compositions in smaller size (the term he used was \"réductions\") for his mother and sister Wil, \"The Bedroom\" was amongst the subjects he chose. These \"réductions\", finished late in September 1889, are not exact copies.\n\nIn \"The Bedroom\" the miniature portrait to the left recalls van Gogh's \"Peasant of Zundert\" self-portrait. The one to the right cannot be linked convincingly to any existing painting by van Gogh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096719", "title": "Manikganj District", "text": "Manikganj District\n\nManikganj ( ) is a district in central Bangladesh. It is a part of the Dhaka Division.\n\nManikganj was formerly a subdivision of Dhaka District. It was turned into a district in 1984.\n\nOn 26 April 1989, Manikganj was the site of the world's worst tornado in terms of loss-of-lives. 1,300 people were initially reported as having been killed with 12,000 injured. The towns of Saturia and Manikganj Sadar were leveled and about 80,000 people were made homeless.\n\nLiberation war in 1971 in Manikganj District was organized and led by Capt. Halim Chowdhury, Abdul Matin Chowdhury, Principal Abdur Rouf Khan and other heroes of the district.\n\nDuring October 1971, at the Northwest corner of Golaidanga village, Baldhara union in Singair upazila, a group of Freedom Fighters attacked the boats carrying the Pakistani intruding soldiers and a terrible battle occurred on the Nuruni ganga (canal of Kaliganga river).Eighty one Pak soldiers were killed and many others held with injuries in a fierce battle with freedom fighters at Golaidanga village in Singair upazila on October 29. Freedom fighter Engr Tobarak Hossain Ludu led the operation. He was the commander of muktibahini Lodu group\nNone of the Mukti Bahini Freedom Fighters were killed during this battle which is one of the significant liberation fight against Pakistani military in Manikgonj. After this short duration battle, the Mukti Bahini Freedom Fighters leave the battle field and the PAK soldiers enhanced their strength bringing more soldiers and they burnt 160 houses surrounding area of Golaidanga village of the battle place and killed 09 local people who were mostly elderly stayed at home.Some local young boys helped freedom fighters in that ambush.They are Abdul Ali, Mohiuddin Alamgir and Zakir and many others. After golaidanga fight singair upozilla became free from Pak occupied army on 13 november 1971. In the last week of November in 1971, fresh groups of freedom fighters entered different areas of Manikganj and defeated Pakistani troops in a few battles. In 14 December 1971, a group of PAK Bahini moving toward Dhaka entered into Barundi village under Manikganj Sadar upazila, a group of liberation forces (Mujib Bahini) under leadership of Shahadat Hossain Biswas Badal were preparing to attack them within a suitable place. Understanding this, the PAK Soldiers immediately left the village leaving two soldiers from their troops. One of them was arrested by the liberation forces (Mujib Bahini) at night on 14 December 1971 and another was arrested by the same group of freedom fighters next day after a small fight. <Joymontop> \nFinally they declared the then sub-division (now Manikganj district) free on December 13.\n\nManikganj is a district in Dhaka Division. It comprises an area of . Annual average temperatures reach a maximum of 36 °C and a minimum to 12.7 °C with the annual rainfall total being .\n\nThere are quite a few rivers in the Manikganj District.\nThe names of the some important rivers of this district are as follows:\n\nManikganj District has a population of 1,671,985; 52.02% male and 56.34% female; the population density is 3674.\n\nThere are total 166 Haats and Bazars. Besides 54 fairs (Mela) are held in Manikganj. \"Manikganj Bijoy Mela\"-(Manikganj), \"Bahadia Boishakhi Mela,(Bahadia) \"Joymontop Modhor Mela,(Joymontop) Bahadia Bazar \"Majhi Barir Mela\"-(Diabari), \"Zinda Shah Mela\"-(Jhitka), \"Belal/Billal Paglar Mela\"-(Harganj), \"Rowth Jatra Mela\"-(Katigram), \"Poush Mela\"-(Atigram), \"Bathaimuri Mela\"-(Bathaimuri), \"Baher Paglar Mela\"-(Bangala), \"Baher Paglar Mela\"-(Mohadebpur), \"Sadhur Mela\"-( South Jamsha), \"Sadhinota Mela\"-(Maluchi), \"Aziz paglar Mela\"- (kachidhara), \" Baruni Mela\"- (Butni),are famous and favorite all over Manikganj. Mohadebpur Bazar, Barangail Bazar, Baira Bazar, Jhitka Bazar, jamsha bazar, Diabari Bazar, Gheor Bazar, Singair Bazar, Bangala Bazar, Maluchi Bazar(Balla bazar), Intazganj Bazar,Butni Bazar are famous bazar in manikganj.\n\n\n\nThe upazilas are:\n\n\nThe district of Manikganj has 3575 mosques, 160 temples, 10 churches, five Buddhist temples and a pagoda.\n\nThere is one medical school in the district, Colonel Malek Medical College.\n\nA private university, NPI University of Bangladesh, is planned.\n\nThere are 27 colleges in the district. They include Government Debendra College, founded in 1942.\n\nAccording to Banglapedia, Baliati Iswar Chandra High School, founded in 1919, Barangail Gopal Chandra High School (1924), Dhankora Girish Institution (1917), Dhulla B. M. High School (1920), Ghior D. N. Pilot High School (1929), Ibrahimpur Iswar Chandra High School (1923), Jamirtta S. G. High School (1921), Jhitka Ananda Mohan High School (1926), Joymontop High School (1921), Manikganj Government High School (1884), Manikganj Model High School (1925), Nali Bararia Krishna Chandra High School (1915), Patgram Anath Bandhu Government High School (1915), Teota Academy (1891), and Terosree K. N. Institution (1922), Bajpara high school (1995) are notable secondary schools.\n\nThe madrasa education system includes two fazil madrasas and one kamil madrasa, Manikganj Islamia Kamil Madrasa, founded in 1953.\n\nThe technical education system includes the Government Textile Vocational Institute Manikganj.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096720", "title": "Keith R. Thompson", "text": "Keith R. Thompson\n\nKeith Thompson is a professor at Dalhousie University with a joint appointment in the Department of Oceanography and the Department of Mathematics and Statistics.\n\nThompson was trained in the UK and obtained his Ph.D. from the University of Liverpool. His research interests are ocean and shelf circulation, 4D data assimilation, extremal analysis and applied time series analysis.\n\nProf. Thompson was recently awarded a Tier I Canada Research Chair in Marine Environmental Prediction. The Canada Research Chairs Program is part of a national strategy to make Canada one of the world’s top five countries for research and development. Chair holders are recognized leaders in their fields and are selected in order to advance the frontiers of knowledge, not only through research, but also by teaching and supervising students and coordinating the work of other researchers. Prof. Thompson has been awarded a Tier I chair, which is the highest level. (For more information on the Canada Research Chairs program see http://www.chairs.gc.ca/).\n\nProf. Thompson was also awarded the President’s Prize of the Canadian Oceanographic and Meteorological Society in 1990, and Reviewer of the Year by the same organization. He has written over 50 scientific publications and sits on international committees including the Coastal Ocean Observations Panel of the Global Ocean Observing System.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096721", "title": "William R. Peers", "text": "William R. Peers\n\nWilliam Ray Peers (June 14, 1914 – April 6, 1984) was a United States Army general, who is most notable for presiding over the Peers Commission investigation into the My Lai massacre and other similar war crimes during the Vietnam War.\n\nPeers, often referred to by his middle name \"Ray\" by close associates, was born in Stuart, Iowa in 1914 and raised in Covina, California. He attended the University of California, Los Angeles where he was president of the Sigma Pi fraternity chapter and was a member of the Bruins' football, wrestling, and rugby teams. He was also a member of Blue Key and a captain in the ROTC He graduated with a degree from the College of Education in 1937.\n\nHe received a regular Army commission in 1938 after spending a year in the army at the Presidio. After receiving his commission, he was assigned to the First Infantry Regiment in Ft. Warren, Wyoming. At the time, the 1st Regiment was a test unit for new equipment, tactics, and organization.\n\nWhen the United States entered World War II, Peers was recruited into the Office of Strategic Services (OSS). He joined Detachment 101, which carried out guerrilla operations against the Japanese in the China India Burma Theater. At first the unit's operations and training officer, he became the unit's commander when its colonel, Carl F. Eifler, was disabled by injuries in 1943. He held that position until 1945, when he became commander of all OSS operations in China south of the Yangtze River. In this capacity, he led a Nationalist Chinese parachute-commando unit into Nanking, securing the former Chinese capital from the Japanese and communist Chinese before the armistice.\n\nAfter World War II, Peers joined the CIA, establishing the agency's first training program. During the Korean War, he directed covert operations by Chinese Nationalist troops into the southern part of the People's Republic of China from secret bases in Burma.\n\nUpon his return from China, he attended the prestigious Army War College, and afterward held a series of intelligence and staff positions. With his Asian insurgency warfare expertise, it was inevitable that his career would prosper during the Vietnam War. At its beginning, Peers was the assistant deputy chief of staff for special operations. The next year, he became special assistant for counterinsurgency and special activities for the Joint Chiefs of Staff.\n\nIn January 1967, as a major general, he was named the 32nd commanding officer of the 4th Infantry Division (\"\"The Ivy Division\"\"). 14 months later, he was promoted to lieutenant general, and commanded the 50,000 American soldiers of the corps-level I Field Force, Vietnam. Based in the Central Highlands, The I Field Force comprised some of the most aggressive American formations in Vietnam, including the 1st Cavalry Division, 101st Airborne Division and the 173rd Airborne Brigade. Peers also coordinated the operations of four South Vietnamese and the two elite South Korean divisions sent as that country's contribution. Under his leadership, allied troops decisively defeated Viet Cong guerrillas and NVA regulars in the battles of Dak To in November 1967, and Duc Lap in August 1968.\n\nIn 1969, Peers was ordered by General Westmoreland to investigate the My Lai Massacre, being selected because of his reputation for fairness and objectivity. In 1970 Peers issued a very thorough and critical report on the incident called the \"Peers Commission.\" Hugh Thompson who, along with his helicopter crew, were the only soldiers who attempted to stop the massacre, said of the Peers report:\n\nPeers died at the age of 69 on 6 April 1984, of a heart attack at Letterman Army Medical Center at the Presidio of San Francisco.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096726", "title": "WWMT", "text": "WWMT\n\nWWMT, virtual channel 3 (VHF digital channel 8), is a dual CBS/CW-affiliated television station licensed to Kalamazoo, Michigan, United States and serving the Grand Rapids–Kalamazoo–Battle Creek television market. The station is owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group. WWMT's studios are located on West Maple Street in Kalamazoo, and its transmitter is located in northwest Yankee Springs Township on Chief Noonday Road/M-179 near Patterson Road. On cable, the station is available on Charter Spectrum and Comcast Xfinity channel 3.\n\nThe station signed on the air on June 1, 1950 as WKZO-TV (the call letters standing for \"KalamaZoO\"). It was West Michigan's second television station to debut after WLAV-TV (channel 7, now WOOD-TV channel 8) and was owned by broadcasting pioneer John Fetzer, along with WKZO radio, which Fetzer had owned since 1930. It carried programming from all four networks of the time: CBS, NBC, ABC and DuMont. However, it has always been a primary CBS affiliate owing to its radio sister's longtime affiliation with the CBS Radio Network.\n\nFrom the start, WKZO-TV had reception problems due to the presence of WTMJ-TV across Lake Michigan in Milwaukee, also on analog VHF channel 3. In 1953, WTMJ moved to channel 4. This, in turn, forced WBBM-TV in Chicago to move from channel 4 to channel 2 as a condition of its purchase by CBS. Until WSBT-TV signed on in 1952, WKZO-TV also served as the default CBS affiliate for South Bend, Indiana.\n\nChannel 3 lost DuMont in 1956 after that network shut down. Soon afterward, the WKZO stations moved their operations to an old car dealership on West Maple Avenue in Kalamazoo, where the station remains based to this day. In 1960, Fetzer built a new transmitter near the northern edge of Gun Lake. The new tower was close enough to Grand Rapids to provide it with city-grade coverage, while still being within of Kalamazoo as required by Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulations. Soon after channel 3 activated its new tower, the FCC collapsed West Michigan into one large television market. WKZO then shared ABC with WOOD-TV until WZZM (channel 13) signed on in 1962.\n\nFetzer also owned the Detroit Tigers baseball team from 1956 to 1983. During this time, channel 3 frequently preempted prime time CBS programming for Tigers baseball games, including preseason exhibitions. In 1985, Fetzer retired and began selling off his vast broadcasting empire, which by this time included, among other holdings, WWTV in Cadillac, Michigan and KOLN-TV in Lincoln, Nebraska. The FCC had grandfathered existing radio-television clusters when it barred common ownership of radio and television stations, but with Fetzer's announcement WKZO-AM-TV lost its grandfathered protection. The Fetzer television stations were initially sold to Gillett Holdings. However, due to FCC ownership limits in effect at the time, WKZO-TV and KOLN-TV were spun off to Busse Broadcasting. On December 5, 1985, per a since-repealed FCC rule restricting TV and radio stations in the same market but with different ownership from sharing the same callsigns, Busse changed the station's call letters to the current WWMT (standing for \"We're West Michigan Television\"). In 1995, Granite Broadcasting acquired the station. Freedom Communications purchased WWMT in 1998 from Granite, along with sister station WLAJ in Lansing.\n\nWWMT is the second longest-tenured CBS affiliate in Michigan (behind only WLNS-TV in Lansing, which signed on one month earlier); its logos have used the CBS logo since the mid-1990s. In 2005, a company-wide consolidation of operations at Freedom's stations resulted in the move of WLAJ's master control and most internal operations to WWMT's facilities. This left behind a skeleton crew of six people out of what began with 80 staffers in Lansing.\n\nFreedom announced on November 2, 2011 that it would exit from television and sell its stations, including WWMT, to the Sinclair Broadcast Group. The group deal closed on April 2, 2012. As a result, WWMT and WLAJ joined Fox affiliate WSMH in Flint as two of the three Sinclair-owned television properties in the state of Michigan. On February 16, 2016, upon the completion of the merger between Schurz Communications and Gray Television, South Bend CBS affiliate WSBT-TV was spun-off to Sinclair in order to meet regulatory guidelines, allowing WWMT and WSBT to become sister operations to one another for the first time, outside of existing news video sharing agreements.\n\nOn May 8, 2017, Sinclair entered into an agreement to acquire Chicago-based Tribune Media – which has owned WPMT since 1996 – for $3.9 billion, plus the assumption of $2.7 billion in debt held by Tribune. Sinclair was precluded from acquiring WXMI directly, as both it and WWMT rank among the four highest-rated stations in the Grand Rapids–Kalamazoo–Battle Creek market in total day viewership and the market has too few independently owned full-power stations to permit legal duopolies in any event. On April 24, 2018, in an amendment to the Tribune acquisition through which it proposed the sale of certain stations to both independent and affiliated third-party companies to curry the DOJ's approval, Sinclair announced that it would sell WPMT and eight other stations – Sinclair-operated KOKH-TV in Oklahoma City, WRLH-TV in Richmond, WOLF-TV (along with LMA partners WSWB and WQMY) in Scranton/Wilkes-Barre, KDSM-TV in Des Moines and WXLV-TV in Greensboro/Winston-Salem/High Point, and Tribune-owned WPMT in Harrisburg – to Standard Media Group (an independent broadcast holding company formed by private equity firm Standard General to assume ownership of and absolve ownership conflicts involving the aforementioned stations) for $441.1 million.\n\nThree weeks after the FCC's July 18 vote to have the deal reviewed by an administrative law judge amid \"serious concerns\" about Sinclair's forthrightness in its applications to sell certain conflict properties, on August 9, 2018, Tribune announced it would terminate the Sinclair deal, intending to seek other M&A opportunities. Tribune also filed a breach of contract lawsuit in the Delaware Chancery Court, alleging that Sinclair engaged in protracted negotiations with the FCC and the DOJ over regulatory issues, refused to sell stations in markets where it already had properties, and proposed divestitures to parties with ties to Sinclair executive chair David D. Smith that were rejected or highly subject to rejection to maintain control over stations it was required to sell. The termination of the Sinclair sale agreement places uncertainty for the future of Standard Media's purchases of WXMI and the other six Tribune- and Sinclair-operated stations included in that deal, which were predicated on the closure of the Sinclair–Tribune merger.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nOn April 4, 2006, WWMT announced it would affiliate with The CW on a new second digital subchannel.\n\nWest Michigan is one of the largest television markets where The CW was not available through over-the-air analog broadcasts and WWMT is one of the few stations the new network was awarded that had not previously been affiliated with either The WB or UPN. WXSP joined MyNetworkTV when the network launched on September 5 and WWMT did the same with The CW when it began on September 18. From that date through early-December, WWMT-DT2 was branded as \"West Michigan's CW\"; it has since changed its branding to \"The CW 7\".\n\nWWMT shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 3, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal moved from its pre-transition VHF channel 2 to channel 8 (which was formerly used for the analog signal of WOOD-TV), using PSIP to display the WWMT's virtual channel as 3 on digital television receivers.\n\nSyndicated programs airing on WWMT include \"Live with Kelly and Ryan\", \"The Kelly Clarkson Show\", \"Dr. Phil\", \"Wheel of Fortune\", and \"Jeopardy!\"; the latter two shows are distributed by CBS Television Distribution.\n\nWWMT presently broadcasts 34½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 5½ hours each weekday and 3½ hours each on Saturdays on Sundays). Originally, WKZO was Western Michigan's highest rated television station, but lost the lead to WZZM in the mid-1970s. It has been a solid runner-up, first to WZZM and later WOTV/WOOD-TV, for most of the time since then. For a time in the mid-1990s, even though most of WWMT's fellow CBS affiliates were in third place or worse, this station was very competitive with WZZM and WOOD-TV often resulting in close Nielsen ratings during sweeps periods.\n\nSince its city of license is Kalamazoo, the station has traditionally had a focus in the southern areas of the market (Kalamazoo and Battle Creek). To assist in story gathering efforts in these areas, it operates a bureau on Michigan Avenue West in downtown Battle Creek. On two occasions, WWMT's existence prevented WOTV, the other major station based in the southern part of the market, from establishing a local news presence. WWMT also once operated a news bureau near Grand Rapids Police headquarters due to its secondary focus on the northern half of the market (Grand Rapids and Muskegon).\n\nVeteran news anchor Tom VanHowe began filling-in for Jeff McAtee on July 28, 2008. McAtee was on active duty serving as a commander with the United States Navy Reserve. Marketing director Mark Bishop told the \"Grand Rapids Press\" that \"McAtee will be active in the Navy Reserve for a year or two.\" In November 2008, VanHowe extended his contract to continue on WWMT until at least June 2009. He continued to co-anchor the station's 5, 5:30 and 6 p.m. newscasts on weeknights. Weekday morning news anchor Jeff Varner (participant in \"\") moved to the weeknight broadcasts alongside Judy Markee.\n\nOn September 18, 2008, WWMT began producing a nightly prime time newscast at 10 p.m. on its CW-affiliated second digital subchannel. This established a third local news option in the timeslot, competing with Fox affiliate WXMI (channel 17)'s longer-established hour-long 10 p.m. newscast and MyNetworkTV affiliate WXSP's half-hour 10 p.m. newscast produced by WOOD-TV. Known as \"Newschannel 3 Live at 10 on The CW 7\", this program currently airs for 30 minutes featuring a separate title opening, \"CW 7\" labeled microphones, and a \"Newschannel 3 on CW 7\" bug in the bottom right hand corner of the screen.\nOn April 17, 2009, WXMI became the first station in the market to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition. Six months later, WOOD-TV upgraded its newscasts to widescreen enhanced definition (WZZM would do the same sometime in late 2009). Although not truly high definition, broadcasts matched the aspect ratio of widescreen television sets. WWMT remained the last major station in Western Michigan with pillarboxed standard definition newscasts until April 16, 2011 when it became the second station in the market to upgrade its local newscasts to full high definition (updated graphics were introduced along with the change) Newscasts on WWMT-DT2 are still presented in standard definition, albeit in widescreen, as the subchannel is not available in HD.\n\nAfter WLAJ's Lansing-based news operation was shut down on September 25, 2009, WWMT began producing a taped five-minute news and weather brief weeknights at 11 p.m. on that station. Known as \"ABC 3 News Update\", regional and state coverage was presented in the show since WLAJ does not maintain any news personnel at its studios. There were also recorded local weather cut-ins seen on that station weekday mornings during \"Good Morning America\". These productions were upgraded to high definition on April 16, 2011. After WLAJ came under the ownership of Shield Media on March 1, 2013, all news programming produced by WWMT ceased airing on the Lansing station and replaced by newscasts from WLNS-TV.\n\nIn June 2011, Andy Dominianni (who had previously served as the station's morning anchor in the late 1990s) and Kate Tillotson were appointed as anchors of the 5, 6 and 11 p.m. newscasts. On April 23, 2012, WWMT became the first station in the market to expand its weekday morning newscast to 4:30 a.m. On January 19, 2013, WWMT debuted weekend morning newscasts, airing for two hours from 6-8 a.m. on Saturdays and from 7-9 a.m. on Sundays.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096733", "title": "Narayanganj District", "text": "Narayanganj District\n\nNarayanganj District ( \"Narayongônj Jela\") is a district in central Bangladesh, part of the Dhaka Division. The anicient city of Sonargaon is in Naryanganj . It is located on the banks of the Meghna and the Sheetolokkha River. The main centre of the district is Narayanganj City. It borders the capital city of Dhaka. Narayanganj is one of the oldest industrial districts of Bangladesh. It is also a centre of business and industry, especially the jute trade and processing plants, and the textile sector of the country. It is nicknamed the \"Dundee of Bangladesh\" due to the presence of many jute mills. Dundee was the first industrialised \"Juteopolis\" in the world. It is number one district for economy of Bangladesh.\n\nNamed after \"Bicon Lal Pandey\", a Hindu religious leader who was also known as \"Benur Thakur\" or \"Lakhsmi Narayan Thakur\". Pandey acquired ownership of the region from the British East India Company in 1766 after the Battle of Plassey. He declared the marketplaces on the banks of the Shitalakshya river as endowed property to pay for expenses for the worship of the God Narayan. Subsequently, the region was named \"Narayanganj\".\n\n\nNarayanganj became a district ( \"Jela\") on 15 February 1984. Formerly, it was a subdistrict ( upojela) of the Dhaka district. It grew in importance in the seventeenth and eighteenth century, due to the influx of the Portuguese and the English. The first to develop was the west bank of Shitalakshya. Narayanganj only became important in the nineteenth century, when the Rally Brothers started a company exporting jute to the west in 1830, aided by a company from Assam. By 1908, 18 European companies, and two Indian companies were trading in jute from Calcutta.\n\nFrom 1947, with the formation of Pakistan, the economy transformed from being mainly a jute production to include jute milling. This followed the establishment of a number of mills in and around Narayanganj that gave the local economy a great boost.\n\nNarayanganj Zila consists of 5 upazilas (Narayanganj Sadar, Bandor, Rupganj, Sonargaon and Araihazar), subdivided into 47 unions and 827 mauzas. The areas and populations (at the 2011 Census) of the upazilas are:\n\n\n\n\nThere are also 7 police stations here, which are: Narayanganj Sadar, Bandor, Fatulla, Siddhirganj, Rupganj, Sonargaon and Araihazar. All the upazilas have more or less similar characteristics.\n\n\nThe district pioneered in merchandising yarn and dyeing items. The cottage industry, like weaving, is abundant in this district. International trading, import and export business, shipyard brickfield, etc. create employment opportunities to the people which facilitate additional income to the household population. The small and medium industries of cotton are increasing day-by-day which fills the employment aids of the local people. The rural economy of Narayanganj is agriculture.\nAccording to Bangladesh Bank, the district is ranked third in nation in terms of gross national income (GNI) and possession of wealth. Now a day Network marketing is the best position in here. So its increased day by day.\n\nThe district of Narayanganj has 3080 mosques, 269 temples, 10 churches and 4 Buddhist temples.\n\nThe ancient city of Sonargaon was the capital of Isa Khan, a medieval ruler of Bengal. Sonargaon is also famous for producing muslin, a delicate and fine cloth made from cotton. The Dhaka-Narayanganj-Demra (DND) embankment surrounds Narayanganj district and protects it from flooding. Shaira Garden near Nazimuddin Bhuiyan Degree College at madanpur.\n\n\nAlmost the whole of Narayanganj district lies on the meander flood plain. Most of this area is now flooded only by rain-water. Only minor areas near the Lakhya. Old Brahmaputra, Meghan, Shitalakha and Dhaleswari river are affected by river water and receive fresh silt deposits. A wide variety of soils occurs in this district.\n\nMammals that are commonly seen in the district are Indian pipistrelle (\"Pipistrellus coromandra\").\n\nThe most common birds of the district include doel, salik, crow and duck.\n\nIn the river, canal, beels, and ponds there are various kinds of fish, but because of water pollution, it is very hard to see fish in the river.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096738", "title": "Fastaval", "text": "Fastaval\n\nFastaval is an annual gaming convention in Hobro, Denmark, with focus on role-playing games, live action role-playing games, board games, miniature wargaming and collectible card games. The first many years was held in or around Aarhus but the 2011 Fastaval was held in Silkeborg while the conventions from 2012 to 2016 were held at Mariagerfjord Gymnasiet in Hobro.\n\nThe convention has been held on the long weekend of Easter since 1986, with the exception of 1988.\n\nSince 1992, Fastaval has presented awards to individuals and role-play scenarios in the form of gilded plaster penguins named Otto. The prizes are awarded at a banquet on the final day of the Fastaval event.\n\nThe award inherited its name from a character in the 1989 game called \"Ulloq Nunaqarfinnguagaluami\". The number of Ottos awarded and the categories themselves have been adjusted steadily over the years. The majority of Ottos are awarded for aspects of role-playing scenarios. In 2003 category was introduced for live scenarios which was discontinued in 2006 in favor of keeping both live and tabletop scenarios in competition with each other. Every year, an Honorary Otto is awarded to an individual, group or project who have distinguished themselves by making an extraordinary contribution to Danish roleplaying.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe convention has over time included a couple of international well-known roleplaying designers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096749", "title": "Encelia farinosa", "text": "Encelia farinosa\n\nEncelia farinosa (commonly known as brittlebush, brittlebrush, or incienso), is a common desert shrub of northern Mexico (Baja California, Baja California Sur, Sonora, Sinaloa, and Hidalgo) and the southwestern United States (California, Arizona, Utah, and Nevada).\n\nThe common name \"brittlebush\" comes from the brittleness of its stems. Other names include \"hierba del vaso\" (Spanish) and \"cotx\" (Seri). Another Spanish name for it is \"incienso\" because the dried sap was burned by early Spanish missions in the New World as incense.\n\n\"E. farinosa\" can be found in a variety of habitats from dry, gravelly slopes to open, sandy washes up to . It requires a very sunny position in a deep very well-drained soil, and minimal winter frost.\n\nIt does well in cultivation often being used for border, erosion control, ground cover and massing. Recently the plant has spread dramatically in areas not natural to its distribution in large part because Caltrans has begun to use it in hydroseeding.\n\nBrittlebush grows up to tall, with fragrant leaves long, ovate to deltoid, and silvery tomentose. The capitula are 3.0–3.5cm in diameter, with orange-yellow ray florets and yellow or purple-brown disc florets. They are arranged in loose panicles above the leafy stems fruit 3–6mm and no pappus is visible. During dry seasons the plant goes drought deciduous, shedding all of its foliage, relying on the water stored in its thick stems.\n\n3-Acetyl-6-methoxybenzaldehyde is found in the leaves of \"E. farinosa\".\n\nTwo varieties of \"E. farinosa\" are recognized by Flora of North America.\n\nVarieties formerly included \"E. f.\" var. \"radians\", now regarded as a separate species \"E. radians\" Brandegee.\n\nBrittlebush has a long history of uses by indigenous and pioneer peoples.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096750", "title": "Rio Grande de Mindanao", "text": "Rio Grande de Mindanao\n\nThe Rio Grande de Mindanao, also known as the Mindanao River, is the second largest river system in the Philippines, located on the southern island of Mindanao. It has a drainage area of , draining the majority of the central and eastern portion of the island, with a total length of approximately . It is an important transportation artery on the island, used mainly in transporting agricultural products and, formerly, timber.\n\nIts headwaters are in the mountains of Impasugong, Bukidnon, south of Gingoog City in Misamis Oriental, where it is called the Pulangi River. Joining the Kabacan River, it becomes the Mindanao River. Flowing out of the mountains, it forms the center of a broad, fertile plain in the south-central portion of the island. Before its mouth in the Illana Bay, it splits into two parallel sections, the Cotabato and Tamontaka, separated by a hill.\n\nPopulation centers along the river include Cotabato City, Datu Piang, and Midsayap.\n\nThe Rio Grande de Mindanao has its source in the Central Mindanao Highlands near the northern coast of the island, specifically on the northeastern part of the province of Bukidnon, where it is known as the Pulangi River. It then flows southward across the Bukidnon Plateau, fed up by its tributaries along the way and then emerges onto the Cotabato plains, depositing fertile mountain silt as it widens and arcs westward through the Cotabato River Basin. It finally empties into Illana Bay at its mouth at Cotabato City.\n\nAs the Mindanao River meets Illana Bay, it branches out into two distributaries, the Cotabato in the north and the Tamontaka in the south at Cotabato City.\n\nThe river has recently been clogged with water hyacinths, causing it to overflow after days of heavy rain. Floodwaters submerged at least 37 villages in Cotabato City alone and displaced some 6,000 families.\n\nPresident Benigno Aquino III ordered public works and military personnel to clear the river of up to of water lily growth.\n"}
{"id": "2096757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096757", "title": "Bill Kempling", "text": "Bill Kempling\n\nWilliam James Kempling (February 5, 1921 – May 20, 1996) was a Canadian politician. Born in Grimsby, Ontario, he represented the electoral districts of Halton—Wentworth in the House of Commons of Canada from 1972 to 1979, and Burlington from 1979 to 1993.\n\nHe was a member of the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada. Kempling is perhaps best known for being a veteran of World War II stationed in Burma. He was a Flight Lieutenant with the R.A.F. and his plane was shot down over the jungles of Burma while on a mission. Surviving the crash, he was subsequently taken prisoner by the Japanese Army and interned in a P.O.W. camp until he was able to escape and make his way through the jungle where he was rescued by a patrol of Ghurka Soldiers that brought him safely out of the jungle to Allied territory.\n"}
{"id": "2096762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096762", "title": "Eric Steel", "text": "Eric Steel\n\nEric Steel is an American filmmaker and producer, best known for his controversial 2006 documentary \"The Bridge\". \n\nSteel was born in 1964. He graduated from Yale University in 1985. He also attended Phillips Exeter Academy in the Class of 1982.\n\nSteel's directorial debut was the 2006 documentary \"The Bridge\". After reading about efforts to place a suicide barrier on the Golden Gate Bridge, one of the world's most often used venues for suicide, he had the bridge filmed from multiple locations throughout 2004, to obtain footage of actual suicides. In obtaining permits to film the bridge, Steel did not reveal to bridge officials that his goal was to film people committing suicide. Instead he stated that his purpose was to make a film \"exploring the beauty and mystique of the Golden Gate Bridge\". A number of suicides were captured on film. The resulting footage was combined with interviews with family and friends of the victims, along with other witnesses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096774", "title": "Apiol", "text": "Apiol\n\n\"For the phenylpropene derivative, see apiole.\"\nApiol, also known as 'liquid apiol' or 'green oil of parsley' is the extracted oleoresin of parsley, rather than the distilled oil. Due to its similarity to the term apiole, care should be taken to avoid confusion. Apiol is an irritant and, in high doses, it can cause liver and kidney damage. Cases of death due to attempted abortion using apiol have been reported.\n\nHippocrates wrote about parsley as a herb to cause an abortion. Plants containing apiole were used by women in the Middle Ages to terminate pregnancies.\n\nIts use was widespread in the US, often as ergoapiol or apergol, until a highly toxic adulterated product containing apiol and tri-ortho-cresyl phosphate (also famous as the adulterant added to Jamaican ginger) was introduced on the American market.\n\nNow that safer methods of abortion are available, apiol is almost forgotten.\n"}
{"id": "2096779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096779", "title": "Sumburgh Airport", "text": "Sumburgh Airport\n\nSumburgh Airport is the main airport serving Shetland in Scotland. It is located on the southern tip of the mainland, in the parish of Dunrossness, south of Lerwick. The airport is owned by Highlands and Islands Airports Limited (HIAL) and served by Loganair.\n\nOn 1 April 1995, ownership of the Company transferred from the UK Civil Aviation Authority to the Secretary of State for Scotland and subsequently to the Scottish Ministers. HIAL receives subsidies from the Scottish Ministers in accordance with Section 34 of the Civil Aviation Act 1982 and is sponsored by Transport Scotland which is an Executive Agency of the Scottish Government and accountable to Scottish Ministers.\n\nSumburgh Links was surveyed and the grass strips laid out by Captain E. E. Fresson in 1936: the airport was opened on 3 June of that year with the inaugural flight from Aberdeen (Kintore) by the De Havilland Dragon Rapide G-ACPN piloted by Fresson himself. It was also one of the first airfields to have RDF facilities, due to the frequency of low cloud and fog and the proximity of Sumburgh Head. The runways were built at the instigation of Capt. Fresson, who had proved to the Navy at Hatston (Orkney) that to maintain all-round landing facilities over the winter months runways were essential. This was taken up by the RAF after the obvious success of the Hatston experiment.\n\nThe former RAF Sumburgh airfield had three runways, two of which, although extended, remain in use by the present airport. The longest was originally , and the shorter ran for from shoreline to shoreline. No. 404 Squadron operated Beaufighter Mark VI and X aircraft from this station on coastal raids against Axis shipping off the coast of Norway and in the North Sea. The airport is unusual in that it has a helicopter runway as opposed to usual helipad. The western end of runway 09/27 crosses the A970 road between Sumburgh (including the airport) and the northern mainland; access is controlled by a level crossing with barriers closed whenever a flight is taking off or landing.\n\n\n\nThe road distance is to Lerwick. There is a regular airport bus service that takes passengers there.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096805", "title": "Boril of Bulgaria", "text": "Boril of Bulgaria\n\nBoril () was the emperor (tsar) of Bulgaria from 1207 to 1218. He was the son of an unnamed sister of his predecessor, Kaloyan and Kaloyan's brothers, Peter II and Ivan Asen I, who had restored the independent Bulgarian state. After Kaloyan died unexpectedly in October 1207, Boril married his widow, a Cuman princess and seized the throne. His cousin, Ivan Asen, fled from Bulgaria, enabling Boril to strengthen his position. His other kinsmen, Strez and Alexius Slav, refused to acknowledge him as the lawful monarch. Strez took possession of the land between the Struma and Vardar rivers with the support of Stefan Nemanjić of Serbia. Alexius Slav secured his rule in the Rhodope Mountains with the assistance of Henry, the Latin Emperor of Constantinople.\n\nBoril launched unsuccessful military campaigns against the Latin Empire and the Kingdom of Thessalonica during the first years of his reign. He convoked the synod of the Bulgarian Church in early 1211. At the assembly, the bishops condemned the Bogomils for heresy. After an uprising broke out against him in Vidin between 1211 and 1214, he sought the assistance of Andrew II of Hungary, who sent reinforcements to suppress the rebellion. He made peace with the Latin Empire in late 1213 or early 1214. After Henry died in 1216 and Andrew II left Hungary for a crusade, Ivan Asen returned to Bulgaria. He captured and blinded Boril in Tarnovo in 1218.\n\nBoril was the son of a sister of three emperors (or tsars) of restored Bulgarian Empire, Peter II, Ivan Asen I and Kaloyan. The etymology of his name is uncertain: it may be connected either to the Slavic verb \"boriti\" (\"to fight\"), or to the Turkic noun \"böri\" (\"wolf\"). Historian Alexandru Madgearu says most recorded variants of the name \"(Borilǔ, Burile, Borilus, Burillus)\" suggest that \"it was pronounced Borilǎ, as in Romanian\".\n\nKaloyan died suddenly while besieging Thessaloniki in October 1207. Rumours began to spread claiming that he was killed by the patron saint of the besieged town, Demetrius. A version of these stories claims that the saint persuaded one Manastras to kill the tsar. The Latin Emperor of Constantinople, Henry, stated in one of his letters that Boril \"had imposed his will by violence and usurped the imperial name and insignia\". Henri de Valenciennes (who continued the chronicle of Geoffrey of Villehardouin after 1207) likewise described Boril as a renegade who unlawfully seized the imperial crown. According to Madgearu, both reports suggest that Boril had his uncle murdered, most likely in cooperation with Kaloyan's wife. Historian John V. A. Fine, however, emphasises that \"there is no evidence against Boril\".\n\nBoril married Kaloyan's widow either to strengthen his claim to the throne, or to secure the Cumans' support. However, many noblemen (among them members of his family) always regarded him as an usurper. Ivan Asen's underage son of the same name soon fled to the Cumans and later to the \"lands of the Russians\" (that is to Halych or Kiev). Boril's brother, Strez, sought refuge in Serbia. Instead of extraditing him, Stefan Nemanjić of Serbia granted him the fortress of Prosek. A third relative, Alexius Slav, took possession took possession of the region of the Rhodope Mountains, which surrounded his castle at Tsepina.\n\nIn the reign of Kaloyan, the Greek noblemen of eastern Thrace had risen up against the Bulgarian Empire, seeking assistance from the Latin Empire; this rebellion would continue against Boril, who left for Thrace to reconquer the region in May 1208. Boril left for Thrace to reconquer the region in May 1208. During his march, he seized parts of Alexius Slav's territory before stopping at Stara Zagora. The Latin Emperor personally led his army against Boril, forcing him to withdraw to Plovdiv. Although Boril's army outnumbered the Latin troops, Henry defeated him near the town on 8 July. The Latins captured Plovdiv and Alexius Slav voluntarily paid homage to Henry to secure his assistance against Boril. While Boril was waging war against the Latins, Stefan Nemanjić invaded Macedonia and occupied the land between the Struma and Vardar rivers. He granted the occupied territories to Strez but left Serbian troops in the region to secure his loyalty.\n\nThe Greeks of Serres in the Kingdom of Thessalonica sent envoys to Boril's commander in Melnik, seeking his assistance against the Latins in early 1209. Henry soon intervened and suppressed their revolt. Boril concluded an alliance with Theodore I Laskaris, Emperor of Nicaea, and Michael I Komnenos Doukas, the Greek ruler of Epirus, against the Latins. He also made peace with Strez who had turned against Nemanjić.\n\nBoril convened a synod of the Church of his realm in Tarnovo in early 1211. The bishops confirmed the Orthodox confession adopted at the synod of Constantinople in 843 and condemned the Bogomils, ordering their persecution as heretics. The synod established the date of Easter in accordance with the Catholic calendar. Boril, who had presided over the synod, ordered the publication of its decisions in Bulgarian on 11 February 1211.\n\nBoril sent an army to a mountain pass to prepare an ambush for the Latin Emperor Henry who was returning from Thessaloniki to Constantinople in April 1211. Having been informed of Boril's plan, Henry gathered his troops from the nearby Latin fortresses and forced Boril to withdraw his army. Strez invaded the Kingdom of Thessalonica, but Michael of Epirus, who had made peace with the Latins, invaded his realm. Boril intervened in the conflict on Strez's behalf, but their united armies were defeated near Bitola in early summer. He launched an assault on Thessaloniki in October, but Eustace of Flanders, who administered the kingdom as regent, forced him to lift the siege. Alexius Slav intervened the conflict on Eustace's behalf and captured Melnik.\n\nJohn Fine says Boril held the Church synod to secure the support of the clergy for himself, because \"popular dissatisfaction with his reign may still have existed\" in 1211. An uprising which broke out in Vidin between 1211 and 1214 demonstrated the existence of popular discontent with him. The exact circumstances of the movement are uncertain, because the only source of information about these events are in fragmentary data preserved in a Hungarian royal charter issued in 1250. \n\nBoril was unable to suppress the rebellion without external assistance, turning to Andrew II of Hungary, reminding him of \"their reliable friendship\". Andrew dispatched Joachim, Count of Hermannstadt (now Sibiu in Romania), to Bulgaria at the head of an army of Saxon, Vlach, Székely and Pecheneg troops. Joachim first routed three Cuman chieftains who tried to halt his invasion, then captured Vidin and returned it to Boril.\n\nA papal legate (identified as Pelagius of Albano) came to Bulgaria in the summer of 1213. He continued his journey towards Constantinople, implying that his mediation contributed to the subsequent reconciliation between Boril and Henry. Boril desired peace because he had already realised that he would be unable to regain the Thracian territories lost to the Latin Empire; Henry wanted peace with Bulgaria in order to resume his war against Emperor Theodore I Laskaris. After lengthy negotiations, Henry married Boril's stepdaughter (whom modern historians wrongly call Maria) in late 1213 or early 1214.\n\nIn early 1214, Boril offered the hand of his unnamed daughter to Andrew II of Hungary's son and heir, Béla. Madgearu says he also renounced the lands that Andrew had claimed from Bulgaria (including Braničevo). In an attempt to conquer new lands, Boril launched an invasion of Serbia, laying siege to Niš in 1214, aided by troops sent by Henry. At the same time, Strez invaded Serbia from the south, although he was killed during his campaign. Boril was unable to seize Niš however, due to conflicts between the Bulgarian and Latin troops. Conflicts between Boril and the Latin troops prevented them from capturing the town.\n\nBoril was deprived of his two principal allies by 1217, as Latin Emperor Henry died in July 1216, and Andrew II left Hungary to lead a crusade to the Holy Land in 1217; this position of weakness enabled his cousin, Ivan Asen, to invade Bulgaria. Boril was beaten by Ivan Asen in battle, and forced to withdraw to Tarnovo, which Ivan's troops laid siege to. The Byzantine historian, George Akropolites, stated that the siege lasted \"for seven years\", however most modern historians believe that it was actually seven months. After Ivan Asen's troops seized the town in 1218, Boril attempted to flee, but was captured and blinded. No further information was recorded about Boril's fate.\n\nAkropolites described Boril's first wife (the widow of his uncle) as a \"Scythian\" (or Cuman). Boril's marriage to his uncle's widow violated canon law, but the Bulgarian Church did not protest against it. Baldwin of Avesnes, the \"Chronicle of Flanders\" and other Western European chronicles say that an unnamed niece of the Latin Emperor Henry (the daughter of his sister, Yolanda of Flanders, and Peter II of Courtenay) was given in marriage to \"Johannis\", who is associated with Boril. Historians who accept the reliability of this report say that Boril married Henry's niece after their peace treaty in 1213 or 1214. If this theory is valid, Boril's first wife either had died or had been sent to a monastery. Boril's daughter was engaged to the Hungarian crown prince, Béla, in 1214, but the marriage never took place, due to Boril's deposition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096809", "title": "Cineplex Entertainment", "text": "Cineplex Entertainment\n\nCineplex Inc., formerly known as Cineplex Galaxy Income Fund and Galaxy Entertainment Inc. is a Canadian entertainment company headquartered in Toronto, Ontario. Through its operating subsidiary Cineplex Entertainment LP, Cineplex operates 165 theatres across Canada. The company operates theatres under numerous brands, including Cineplex Cinemas, Cineplex Odeon, SilverCity, Galaxy Cinemas, Cinema City, Famous Players, Scotiabank Theatres and Cineplex VIP Cinemas.\n\nCineplex claims the heritage of Famous Players Film Corporation when it was founded in 1912, followed by the establishment of Odeon Theatres of Canada in 1941. Odeon merged with the Canadian Theatres chain in 1978, becoming Canadian Odeon Theatres.. Cineplex Corporation began operating in 1979. Odeon merged with Cineplex in 1984 to form Cineplex Odeon Corporation, before being acquired by Loews Theatres in 1998 becoming Loews Cineplex Entertainment. The present enterprise dates to 1999 when Ellis Jacob and a number of Cineplex Odeon executives formed Galaxy Entertainment Inc., which merged the Canadian unit of Loews Cineplex by Onex Corporation in 2002 following its bankruptcy in 2001. In 2005, Cineplex Galaxy acquired Famous Players from National Amusements effectively doubling its size.\n\nSince 2002, the company was owned by Onex Corporation, but it became publicly traded in 2011. On December 16, 2019, Cineplex agreed to be acquired by Cineworld Group for $2.8 billion, pending regulatory and shareholder approval.\n\nCineplex also owns and operates multiple brands for entertainment (such as UltraAVX, Xscape Entertainment Centre, Player One Amusement Group) and restaurants (such as OutTakes and Poptopia). It is also a joint partner in the Scene loyalty program with Scotiabank. Cineplex Inc's current chief main competitors are Landmark Cinemas, Rainbow Cinemas and Cinémas Guzzo.\n\nThe name \"Cineplex\" comes from the word \"cineplex\" which combines the term, \"cinema\" and \"complex\". It also defines a cinema having multiple theatres. The circular rings stand for entertainment and unity in the logo, which represents a symmetrical graphic depiction of the ancient Greek amphitheatre or “Odeon”, the former name, which is Greek for the word theatre. The term was coined by Nat Taylor.\n\nIts former corporate name, \"Galaxy\", comes from the words \"galaxye\" (Old English), \"galaxie\" (Old French), \"galaxie\" (Latin), γαλαξίας/\"galaxias\" (Ancient Greek), and the \"Milky Way\" (milk). The logo consisted of the Milky Way; the apparent band of concentrated stars which appears in the night sky over earth.\n\nCineplex stakes a partial claim to the history of the Famous Players Film Company (later Paramount Pictures), founded in 1912, as its earliest predecessor, though that company did not have any operations in Canada until 1920, when it bought Nathan Nathanson's Paramount Theatre chain, which Nathanson had established four years earlier. Nathanson, along with being the 5th richest person in the world, became the first president of the resulting entity, Famous Player Canadian Corporation. In 1923, Famous Players bought out rival Allen Theatres, acquiring many buildings in the process .\n\nIn 1979, Garth Drabinsky and Nat Taylor opened its first \"Cineplex\" theatre complex, in the Toronto Eaton Centre.\n\nGalaxy Entertainment Inc. was established in 1999 by Ellis Jacob, a former Chief Operating Officer of Loews Cineplex Entertainment, and Stephen Brown, a former Cineplex Chief Financial Officer. With investments from Onex Corporation and Famous Players, the new company focused on smaller markets that were usually served by smaller theatres and old equipment, opening large, major chain-style locations under the \"Galaxy Cinemas\" banner. \n\nIn 2001, Loews Cineplex Entertainment (a 1998 merger of Cineplex Odeon and Sony's Loews Theatres in 1998) underwent bankruptcy due to the economic recession of the early 2000s. In 2002, Onex Corporation, along with Oaktree Capital Management, acquired Loews Cineplex Entertainment. \n\nOnex retained Lowes Cineplex's Canadian operations on November 26, 2003 and merged them with Galaxy Entertainment, forming \"Cineplex Galaxy Income Fund\". Jacob became the chief executive of Cineplex Galaxy Cinemas and Brown became the CFO. Most of the theatres acquired by Cineplex were once owned by Cineplex Odeon Corporation.\n\nOn June 13, 2005, Cineplex Galaxy announced its acquisition of Famous Players from Viacom for $500 million (about US$397 million). This deal was completed on July 22, 2005. To satisfy antitrust concerns, on August 22, 2005 the group announced the sale of 27 locations in Ontario and western Canada to Empire Theatres.\n\nEight days after Cineplex Galaxy announced its purchase of Famous Players Theatres, Loews Cineplex Theatres and AMC Theatres announced a merger. While AMC Theatres also operated in Canada and was ranked third behind Cineplex Galaxy Income Fund and the enlarged Empire Theatres, Cineplex Odeon and AMC Theatres remained competitors. In 2012, AMC sold 4 of its theatres to Cineplex Entertainment, in an effort to divest their Canadian operations and focus on their U.S. assets.\n\nCineplex Galaxy Income Fund, the owners of the chain, renamed Cineplex Galaxy LP to \"Cineplex Entertainment\" on October 3, 2005. In 2011, Cineplex Galaxy became \"Cineplex Inc.\"\n\nCineplex Entertainment announced on March 31, 2006 that it had sold seven more theatres in Quebec to Chelsea-based Fortune Cinemas Inc. On June 29, 2007, Cineplex Entertainment announced its purchase of three Cinema City theatres in western Canada. Two theatres in Winnipeg and one in Edmonton were acquired.\n\nWith the bankruptcy of Fortune Cinemas, Cineplex Entertainment acquired (or in this case, re-acquired) some of Fortune Cinemas theatres. The Starcité Gatineau (Starcité Hull) and the Cavendish theaters were reopened as Cineplex Entertainment theatres.\n\nIn July 2012, Cineplex Entertainment purchased four of AMC's Canadian theaters, including the Yonge Dundas 24 at 10 Dundas East, adjacent to the Toronto Eaton Centre, and the Forum in Montreal. The purchase of the Yonge Dundas 24, presently Canada's largest multiplex cinema, brought Cineplex Entertainment full circle, as the original Cineplex at Eaton Centre was the namesake for the present company. The company also earlier acquired the Tinseltown Movies 12 theatre from another American chain, Cinemark, in the Gastown neighbourhood of Vancouver.\n\nIn December 2012, Cineplex Entertainment opened its first VIP cinema outside Ontario, and the first Cineplex built from the start as a VIP cinema was in Edmonton, Alberta, in the SW neighborhood of Windermere in the Windermere (area). It was also the first Cineplex to be 18+ VIP. Cineplex reopened a theater in Coquitlam, B.C that had been renovated to host 19+ VIP, shortly after.\n\nOver the subsequent years, Cineplex expanded into advertising, events programming and a new concept, The Rec Room, amusement venues with live entertainment that serve food and drink. \n\nIn the 2010s, Cineplex began to deploy a new concept, \"VIP Cinemas\", at selected locations, featuring premium amenities such as reclining seats, in-seat meal services, and a licensed lounge. On August 15, 2014, Cineplex opened a dedicated VIP Cinemas Don Mills location, the first to be devoted solely to the format. By 2017, the company had also begun to retrofit selected non-VIP auditoriums to feature reclining seating, as part of an effort to improve the customer experience.\n\nOn June 27, 2013, the Empire Company announced that it would divest its Empire Theatres operations in order to focus on its real estate assets and grocery chain Sobeys. Cineplex acquired 26 former Empire locations, predominantly in Atlantic Canada (as well as 2 in Ontario), for around $200 million (Landmark Cinemas acquired the remainder, predominantly in Western Canada and Ontario). In February 2014, Cineplex announced that it had acquired Empire's planned Lansdowne Park location in Ottawa, and would construct a new 10-screen cinema at the site with three VIP screens.\n\nOn December 16, 2019, Cineplex announced a definitive agreement to be acquired by the British cinema operator Cineworld Group, the second-largest film exhibitor worldwide, pending shareholder and regulatory approval. Cineworld would be paying $34 per-share—a 42% premium over Cineplex's share price prior to the announcement, valuing the company at CDN$2.8 billion. Cineworld planned to pay US$1.65 billion, and to fund the remainder by taking on debt. \n\nCombined with its ownership of the 564-location Regal Cinemas chain in the United States (which it had acquired the previous year), the sale will make Cineworld the largest cinema chain in North America. Cineworld stated that it planned to integrate Cineplex's operations with those of Regal, and continue to maintain the Cineplex brand as its banner in the Canadian market. The company also stated that it planned to reach $120 million in cost efficiencies and revenue synergies (including the adoption of a subscription service scheme similar to Regal and Cineworld) by the end of fiscal year 2020. \n\nThe sale was approved by Cineplex shareholders in February 2020. Activist shareholder Bluebell Capital Partners called for the Canadian government to block the sale due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which in turn led to the temporary closure of all Cineplex movie theatres across Canada since March 16, 2020 until further notice.\n\nCineplex's flagship banners include Cineplex Cinemas ( in Quebec), with some older locations still using the previous \"Cineplex Odeon\" branding, and Scotiabank Theatre. Selected banners originating from Famous Players are still used by some locations, such as Famous Players and SilverCity ( in Quebec), but these banners, as well as others (such as Coliseum and Colossus) have been largely replaced by Cineplex Cinemas (although in the case of Coliseum and Colossus, the unique architectural features of these theatres have been preserved), and Scotiabank Theatre in the case of Famous Players' Paramount cinemas. The Galaxy Theatres brand is primarily used by mid-market locations.\n\nSelected Cineplex locations offer premium screens and features for a higher ticket price, including large-screen formats, motion seats, and VIP. Following the premiere of \"\", Cineplex reported that at least 80% of customers watched the film with one of its premium formats, and 40% of the company's overall box office revenue came from premium formats.\n\n\nMost Cineplex locations feature arcade areas under various brands. In June 2009, Cineplex began to deploy a new concept known as \"Xscape Entertainment Centre\", incorporating it into new locations or refurbishing existing locations to utilize the format. There are 28 locations as of September 30, 2017. Xscape feature both redemption games and traditional games, with some locations also including a licensed lounge and party rooms. They utilize card systems to store credits and points for prizes, and provide offers for Scene rewards users. About 77 other Cineplex locations continue to feature a \"Cinescape\" arcade, replacing the \"TechTown\" brand previously deployed by Famous Players and Playdium as well as the \"Zero Gravity\" brand launched by Galaxy prior to the 2003 merger with Loews Cineplex Canada. In 2017, Cineplex began to expand the Xscape brand internationally, beginning with two standalone Xscape arcades at the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minnesota.\n\nIn January 2015, Cineplex announced a new entertainment restaurant chain known as The Rec Room. Comparable to the U.S.-based chain Dave & Buster's, The Rec Room features restaurant and bar areas, recreational game areas, simulators, and an auditorium equipped with a cinema-style screen. Cineplex CEO Ellis Jacob explained that the chain is meant to help the company diversify beyond its core cinema business in the wake of the growing streaming industry, The first location opened in South Edmonton Common in 2016. A second location in Toronto's Roundhouse Park opened in June 2017, along with a second Edmonton location at West Edmonton Mall. Cineplex aims to open 10-15 locations of The Rec Room nationally, ranging in size from 30,000 to 60,000 square feet. Further locations were announced for Brentwood Town Centre in Burnaby, Masonville Place in London, Square One Shopping Centre in Mississauga, Avalon Mall in St. Johns, Seasons of Tuxedo in Winnipeg, and Granville Street in Vancouver.\n\nCineplex owns Playdium, a major arcade and family entertainment centre in Mississauga, Ontario. On October 2, 2017, Cineplex announced that it would re-launch the Playdium brand as a new entertainment restaurant chain oriented towards families; the first new location opened in Brampton, Ontario in 2019 (retrofitting the Cineplex Odeon Orion Gate theatre).\n\nIn November 2019, Cineplex announced that it would introduce a new cinema banner known as Junxion. They are being positioned as a merger of The Rec Room's entertainment restaurant concept with that of a traditional cinema, with its first planned location to open at Erin Mills Town Centre in Mississauga in late-2020, followed by Kildonan Place in Winnipeg afterwards.\n\nIn November 2017, an IMAX VR centre opened at Scotiabank Theatre Toronto, as IMAX VR's first location in Canada. The following month, a D-Box VR experience launched at the Ottawa location. The IMAX VR centre closed in 2019, as part of the discontinuation of the IMAX VR pilot project.\n\nIn July 2018, after having opened such an attraction at The Rec Room at Roundhouse Park, Cineplex Entertainment announced that it had reached an agreement to be the exclusive Canadian franchisee of The Void — a chain of mixed reality entertainment attractions.\n\nOn September 13, 2018, Cineplex announced that it would acquire a stake in VRStudios—a Seattle-based provider of virtual reality installations, and utilize its equipment for as many as 40 VR centres across the country.\n\nLaunched in 2007, Scene is the entertainment rewards program jointly owned by Scotiabank and Cineplex Entertainment.\n\nCineplex has an Outtakes () restaurant in 94 theatres, some which replace previous restaurant partners (Burger King, KFC and New York Fries) and others which introduce restaurants at locations which did not previously feature one. VIP Cinemas and some Xscape locations feature a licensed lounge with more premium offerings compared to Outtakes. Poptopia is a flavoured popcorn restaurant offered in a full-service format at 22 locations. Other Cineplex theatres may feature Poptopia at the concession stand, but only in the caramel corn and/or kettle corn flavours.\n\nIce cream at Cineplex locations debuted with Baskin-Robbins and TCBY. Beginning in December 2007, Yogen Früz became the preferred partner. On January 1, 2014, Cineplex acquired a 50% stake in Yoyo's Yogurt Café. As of January 2017, 77 Cineplex theatres feature Yoyo's restaurants, while Yogen Fruz is still available in 23 Cineplex theatres while TCBY is available in 16 locations. Cineplex also manages Melt Sweet Creations, an in-house dessert bouqtiue brand targeted at women ages 19-35 debuted in December 2017 at Cineplex Cinemas Queensway and VIP. Melt is available at 13 locations.\n\nBeverages are available in both cold and hot formats. Cold beverages include the Coca-Cola lineup, which replaced the Pepsi lineup used at locations formerly owned by Famous Players. 12 locations feature Coca-Cola Freestyle. Hot beverages include Starbucks as the incumbent provider with 105 locations, all which offer Pike Place Roast coffee (regular or decaf) and Tazo tea. Select locations also offer premium drinks such as caffè mocha or caramel macchiato. Tim Hortons is available as a full-service restaurant in five locations, with Brossard being the only location to offer both Tim Hortons and Starbucks.\n\nIn most theatres, Cineplex offers sale of alcohol to 19+ guests in Ontario (18+ in Alberta) similar to the VIP theatres albeit from a selection of beer or cider beverages.\n\nThe current Chief Executive Officer and President of Cineplex Entertainment is Ellis Jacob. Alongside with Jacob are Jordan Banks who serves as a Facebook executive, Robert Bruce, Joan Dea, Ian Greenberg, the founder of Astral Media, Sarabjit S. Marwah, Anthony Munk, Edward Sonshine, Robert J. Steacy and Phyllis Yaffe, who serves as its chair.\n\n\"The Motley Fool\" described Cineplex as having a \"virtual monopoly\" over the cinema market in Canada.\n\nIn 2012, a class-action lawsuit was filed against Cineplex over locations refusing to honour the company's \"Cheap Tuesdays\" promotion. The company agreed to a $7,000 settlement, including a $25,000 charitable donation.\n\nIn 2019, the producers of \"Unplanned\", an anti-abortion-themed film, criticized Cineplex for initially declining to pick up the film after securing a Canadian distributor. They felt it amounted to an effective \"ban\" of the film from Canada due to the company's scale. The film's co-director Cory Solomon also, along with other pro-life supporters and religious groups, called for a boycott of Cineplex. The company later announced that it would—joining competitor Landmark Cinemas and a handful of independent cinemas—screen \"Unplanned\" with a one-week limited release at 24 Cineplex locations. The decision was praised by pro-life supporters, but did lead to criticism from pro-choice groups due to disputes over the film's content (with the Alberta Pro-Choice Coalition stating that it planned to hold a peaceful protest outside Scotiabank Theatre Chinook Centre). The film itself had already attracted criticism from groups, such as the Abortion Rights Coalition of Canada, over its factual accuracy, with the Coalition describing it as \"American propaganda\".\n\nDuring the 2019 Toronto International Film Festival, festival organizers stated that Cineplex would no longer allow films distributed by an online video service (such as Amazon Video or Netflix) to be screened at the Scotiabank Theatre Toronto (which has been considered the \"primary\" venue of the event for major screenings) due to company policy, as the services do not adhere to industry-standard theatrical windows. \"ScreenDaily\" stated that this was \"believed to be the first time an exhibitor’s position on theatrical windowing has affected scheduling at a major film festival\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096818", "title": "Len Hopkins", "text": "Len Hopkins\n\nLeonard Donald \"Len\" Hopkins (June 12, 1930 – February 6, 2007) was a Canadian politician and member of the Liberal Party of Canada.\n\nBorn in Argyle, Ontario, Hopkins was educated at the Ryerson Institute of Technology, the North Bay Teacher's College, as well as receiving a B.A. from Queen's University and a teacher's certificate from the Ontario College of Education at the University of Toronto. He was a teacher and school principal and served on the municipal council for Petawawa Township from 1963 to 1965.\n\nHopkins represented the electoral districts of Renfrew North from 1965 to 1972, Renfrew North—Nipissing East from 1972 to 1979 and Renfrew—Nipissing—Pembroke from 1979 to 1997, in the House of Commons of Canada.\n\nHe served as Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources from 1972 to 1975 and the Minister of National Defence in 1984. He \"battled his own party\" over the Canadian gun registry.\n\nHopkins died on February 6, 2007 in the University of Ottawa Heart Institute, aged 76. He had suffered a series of cardiac setbacks. His death was attributed to pneumonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096822", "title": "Kaliman I of Bulgaria", "text": "Kaliman I of Bulgaria\n\nKaliman Asen I, also known as Coloman Asen I or Koloman (; 1234-August/September 1246) was Emperor (Tsar) of Bulgaria from 1241 to 1246. He was the son of Ivan Asen II of Bulgaria and Anna Maria of Hungary. He was only seven when he succeeded his father in 1241. In the following years, the Mongols invaded Bulgaria and imposed a yearly tax on the country. He may have been poisoned, according to contemporaneous rumors about his death.\n\nKaliman was the son of Ivan Asen II of Bulgaria and Anna Maria of Hungary. He was born in 1234. His mother died before 1237, when his widowed father married Irene Komnene Doukaina. Ivan Asen also died in the first half of 1241.\n\nKaliman was only seven when he succeeded his father. Although no primary sources provide information about the government of the country during the minor monarch's reign, Bulgaria was obviously ruled by one or more regents. Historian Alexandru Madgearu proposes that Ivan Asen's brother, Alexander, was most probably the sole regent for Kaliman; other scholars say a regency council was established under the leadership of Patriarch Joachim I. Bulgaria, the Latin Empire and the Empire of Nicaea signed a truce for two years shortly after Kaliman Asen's ascension.\n\nTwo contemporaneous clergymen, Roger of Torre Maggiore and Thomas the Archdeacon, recorded that Kadan (a son of Ögödei, Great Khan of the Mongols) broke into Bulgaria in March 1242. Thomas also mentioned that Kadan and Batu Khan \"resolved to hold a muster of their military forces\" in Bulgaria. More than 60 years later, Rashid-al-Din Hamadani also knew that \"after much fighting\" Kadan captured two towns in \"Ulaqut\" (or Bulgaria). Archaeological evidence shows that at least a dozen Bulgarian fortresses (including Tarnovo, Preslav and Isaccea) were destroyed during the Mongol invasion. Although the country was not occupied, the Bulgarians were to pay a tribute to the Mongols thereafter.\n\nPope Innocent IV convoked a synod at Lyon to establish a coalition against the Mongols in 1245. He also sent a letter to Kaliman, urging him to bring the Bulgarian Orthodox Church into a full communion with the Holy See and to send delegates to Lyon. Kaliman was only twelve when he died in August or September 1246. The contemporary Byzantine historian George Akropolites recorded that contradictory rumors spread about Kaliman's death. Some said that \"he had succumbed to a natural illness\"; others claimed that \"he was killed by a draught secretly prepared to cause his death by those who were of contrary opinion to him\". Patriarch Vissarion also died in September 1246. Madgearu says this coincidence implies that both were murdered by those who opposed the church union. According to a 14th-century charter, Kaliman Asan was the ruler of \"Moldo-Wallachia\" (or Moldavia), but the document is a late forgery. The northern border of Bulgaria did not expand over the Lower Danube.\n\nKaliman Island in Antarctica is named after Emperor Kaliman Asen I of Bulgaria.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096823", "title": "Kirkwall Airport", "text": "Kirkwall Airport\n\nKirkwall Airport is the main airport serving Orkney in Scotland. It is located southeast of Kirkwall and is owned by Highlands and Islands Airports Limited. The airport is used by Loganair.\n\nThe airport was built and commissioned in 1940 as RAF Grimsetter for the defence of the Scapa Flow naval base. In 1943 the Royal Navy's Fleet Air Arm took over, as RNAS Kirkwall then HMS Robin. Control passed in 1948 to the Ministry of Civil Aviation and in 1986 to Highlands and Islands Airports.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096829", "title": "Bréguet 960 Vultur", "text": "Bréguet 960 Vultur\n\nThe Bréguet Br.960 \"Vultur\" was a French prototype carrier-based attack aircraft that first flew on 3 August 1951. Only two examples were built, but the work done on them later proved useful in the development of the Bréguet 1050 Alizé anti-submarine warfare aircraft.\n\nThe Vultur was a mixed-power design, combining an Armstrong Siddeley Mamba turboprop in the nose with a Rolls-Royce Nene turbojet in the tail. It was a low-wing aircraft, with the wing featuring a swept leading edge and a straight trailing edge, folding at the middle. The aircraft had tricycle landing gear, with the main gear hinged in the wings just inside the wing fold and retracting towards the fuselage, the nose gear retracting backwards.\n\nThe Vultur accommodated a pilot and copilot sitting side by side in a framed canopy. A typical payload was a single 1,000 kg (2,200 lb) bomb and eight rockets. It was fitted with radar in a pod on the right wingtip, balanced by a fuel tank on the left wingtip. A large search radar could also be attached under the fuselage.\n\nWhen the Aéronavale lost interest in a turboprop attack aircraft, but was keen to purchase a new anti-submarine warfare platform, Bréguet modified the second prototype as a demonstrator. Now known as the Bréguet Br.965 Épaulard (\"Killer Whale\"), this aircraft was the immediate forerunner of the Bréguet Alizé.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096831", "title": "Edward Aveling", "text": "Edward Aveling\n\nEdward Bibbins Aveling (29 November 1849 – 2 August 1898) was a prominent English biology instructor and popular spokesman for Darwinian evolution, atheism, and socialism.\n\nAveling was the author of numerous books and pamphlets and was a founding member of the Socialist League and the Independent Labour Party. For many years he was the partner of Eleanor Marx, the youngest daughter of Karl Marx.\n\nAveling was born on 29 November 1849 in Stoke Newington, the fifth of eight children of Rev. Thomas William Baxter Aveling (1815–1884), a Congregationalist minister, and his wife, Mary Ann (d. 1877), daughter of Thomas Goodall, farmer and innkeeper, of Wisbech, Cambridgeshire.\n\nAveling attended Taunton School, and in 1867 began to study medicine at University College London. He graduated with a BSc degree in Zoology in 1870. Aveling began teaching biology and lecturing in science at King's College London but was unable to advance due to his atheism and avowed leftist views. He subsequently lectured on Anatomy and Biology at the London Hospital until 1882.\n\nOn 30 July 1872, Aveling married the heiress Isabel Campbell Frank (22 November 1849 – 12 September 1892), but the marriage lasted only two years before they separated amicably. According to Aveling, the cause of the split was that Isabel could not abide his atheist views, although there were rumours that he had married her for her money. They did not divorce and the marriage ended with her death.\n\nFrom 1872 to 1876 Aveling was a teacher of elementary physics and botany at the North London Collegiate School for Girls. \n\nIn 1880, Aveling delivered over a hundred freethought lectures and was made a vice-president of the National Secular Society. He edited the secular humanist magazine, \"The Freethinker\" when its founding editor George William Foote was imprisoned for blasphemy in 1883.\n\nIn November 1882 he was elected to represent Westminster on the London School Board. \n\nIn 1884, Aveling became the partner of Eleanor \"Tussy\" Marx, the daughter of Karl Marx, and thus was thrust into the inner circle of British socialism. Later in 1884, Aveling and Eleanor were both elected to the Executive Council of the Social Democratic Federation. This position proved temporary, because the couple separated from the SDF at the end of the year along with William Morris and Belfort Bax in the acrimonious split which formed the Socialist League.\n\nIn 1884, Frederick Engels enlisted Aveling to help in translating the first volume of Karl Marx's book \"Das Kapital.\" Aveling also achieved some success as a playwright under the pen-name Alec Nelson.\n\nIn the autumn of 1886, Aveling and Eleanor Marx toured the United States, lecturing on behalf of the Socialist Labor Party. After their return, they wrote a book for British readers detailing the situation of the left-wing political movement and trade unions in the US, which they said was populated by \"unconscious socialists,\" people who shared socialist values but disclaimed socialist ideas. Aveling and Marx wrote:\n\nThe mass of American Workers had scarcely any more conception of the meaning of Socialism than had 'their betters.' They also had been grievously misled by capitalist papers and capitalist economists and preachers. Hence it came to pass that after most of our meetings we were met by Knights of Labour, Central Labour Union men, and members of other working-class organisations, who told us that they, entering the place antagonists to Socialism as they fancied, had discovered that for a long time past they had been holding its ideas.\n\nDuring his time in the Socialist League Aveling wrote and translated various socialist texts but nonetheless remained personally unpopular in the movement, the object of a steady steam of gossip and accusations.\n\nIn August 1888, the branch to which Aveling and Marx belonged separated from the anarchist-dominated Socialist League in favour of an independent existence as the Bloomsbury Socialist Society.\n\nAfter leaving the Socialist League, Aveling became active in the Gasworkers' Union, for whom he served as an auditor.\n\nAveling was a founding member and was elected to the National Administrative Council of the Independent Labour Party by the 1893 Conference which established the organisation. He left that group to rejoin the Marxist Social Democratic Federation in 1896, despite his long-standing personal and political quarrel with SDF leader Henry Hyndman.\n\nUnder the pen name Alec Nelson, Aveling wrote several successful plays, including an adaptation of Nathaniel Hawthorne's \"The Scarlet Letter\" that premiered in London in May 1888. By August, he was supervising the mounting of three different plays in New York, Chicago, and, in the words of Engels, \"God knows where besides.\"\n\nFrom his standpoint as a comparative anatomist Aveling easily accepted Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection. As an atheist he eagerly promoted the division between some evolutionists and some Christians. His colourful writings on Darwinism were widely read by the general public. However, some of the arguments that he constructed himself were not widely accepted amongst the scientific community; he says, for example, that \"the special creation of a species of animal or plant is not thinkable\" because it would contravene the principle that both matter and energy are conserved.\n\nIn 1897, Aveling left Marx and on 8 June that year secretly married an actress, Eva Frye, using his pen-name Alec Nelson. He returned to Marx in September when he was suffering from kidney disease. After nursing him for some time, Eleanor Marx committed suicide mainly due to his infidelity. A coroner's inquest delivered a verdict of \"suicide while in a state of temporary insanity,\" clearing Aveling of criminal wrongdoing, but he was widely reviled throughout the socialist community as having caused Eleanor to take her life. It has even been suggested that Aveling might have murdered her. Aveling died four months later, on 2 August 1898, in Battersea of kidney disease. He was 48. His body was cremated at Woking Crematorium, Surrey, three days later.\n\nDespite his prominence as a member of the fledgling British Marxist movement, no representatives of the Socialist or labour movements were present at the funeral due to the widely held belief that he was responsible for Eleanor Marx's death.\n\nAveling was also disliked by many of his contemporaries for his tendency to borrow money from everyone. A biographer of Eleanor wrote in 1976:\nThe truth is that in moral terms Aveling presented something akin to an optical illusion: looked at in one light, he could be seen as feckless, happy-go-lucky but fundamentally sound; in another, as an unmitigated scoundrel. What, however, could not escape notice from any angle was his infinite propensity to borrow money, which age could not wither nor — more surprisingly — custom stale. He might be cheated...so that resigning from the Secular Society he was loaded with debt. Yet this hardly accounts for his habit of borrowing from the rich, the poor and the positively indigent for trifling amounts — though sometimes cleaning them out — since he never at any time — and this in an age of ostentatious spenders... — lived in a style above that of any other middle-class socialist who had neither business interests nor inherited wealth. * * *\n\nIt is not uncommon to come across individuals from whose company and a small sum of money one simultaneously parts. This compulsion to borrow is not easy to explain in those who are neither on their beam ends nor aspire to high living.\"\n\nAlthough he had numerous relationships with women, as far as is known, Aveling had no children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096832", "title": "National Geographic World Championship", "text": "National Geographic World Championship\n\nThe National Geographic World Championship (previously called the International Geography Olympiad, which is now the title of another similar competition for older schoolchildren) is a biennial, two-day-long international geography competition typically held in late July or early August. The Championship was first held in 1993, and is sponsored by the National Geographic Society. Teams of three students plus one alternate are selected from among those who finished highest in their respective countries' national competitions (e.g. the National Geographic Bee in the U.S.A., the Olimpíada Geográfica Argentina in Argentina or the Australian Geography Competition in Australia). On the first day of competition, these teams take a written test on which all members confer and work together, then take part in a team geography skills-testing activity, such as using a map to find specified locations in unfamiliar surroundings. The scores from these two events are tallied, and the top three teams advance to the final round on the second day. The final round consists of questions primarily in the style of the National Geographic Bee, as a moderator (since 1993, Alex Trebek) reads questions to one team or one individual at a time. These questions may also involve the use of visual aids such as maps or photographs. Members of the top three teams receive bronze, silver, or gold medals for finishing third, second, or first, respectively.\n\nThe National Geographic World Championship was initiated by the National Geographic Society in 1993. To be able to participate in the biennial competition (held every other year), a National Geographic approved organization in a country (the “Country Sponsor”), working with the Ministry of Education in the country, must run its own annual nationwide geography competition which is open to most students under 16 years of age, based on school level, regional and/or national competitions. In the USA it is called “The National Geographic Bee”. Other nations have different names for their competitions. Student team members must be 16 years of age or younger and not out of secondary school, at the time of the international competition. Each Country Sponsor is responsible for managing its own national competition, including compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. \nNational Geographic has hosted nine international competitions to date. The medals are for recognition purposes and have no significant monetary value.\n\nEach Country Sponsor can send a team of three (3) students and one adult escort to the National Geographic World Championship. As the event has grown, they must be firm with this number and cannot permit other students or adults to attend the activities associated with the event, other than the final part of the competition on the last day. The adult escort must be fluent in English, be knowledgeable on the subject of geography, and be associated with the national competition in their country. A student may not participate in more than one international competition. Students must be no older than 16 years of age at the time of the international competition.\n\n1993\n\nLocation: London, , \n\n1995\n\nLocation: Orlando, , \n\n1997\n\nLocation: , \n\nDates: August 5–6\n\n1999\n\nLocation: Toronto, , \n\nDates: August 10–11\n\n2001\n\nLocation: Vancouver, , \n\nDates: August 1–2\n\n2003\n\nLocation: Tampa, , \n\nDates: July 15–16\n\n2005\n\nLocation: Budapest, \n\nDates: July 11–14\n\n2007\n\nLocation: San Diego, , \n\nDates: August 5–10\n\n2009\n\nLocation: Mexico City, \n\nDates: July 9–16\n\n2011\n\nLocation: San Francisco, , \n\nDates: July 23–28\n\n2013\n\nLocation: St. Petersburg, \n\nDates: July 28–31\n\n2015\n\nCancelled (Original Location: Stockholm, )\n\nNote: These are all from the official page of the National Geographic World Championship.\n"}
{"id": "2096833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096833", "title": "Michael II Asen", "text": "Michael II Asen\n\nMichael II Asen (; 1239 – December 1256/January 1257), more accurately Michael Asen I, was Emperor (Tsar) of Bulgaria from 1246 to 1256 or 1257. He was the son of Ivan Asen II of Bulgaria and Irene Komnene Doukaina. He succeeded his half-brother, Kaliman I Asen. His mother or other relative must have ruled Bulgaria during his minority.\n\nJohn III Doukas Vatatzes, Emperor of Nicaea, and Michael II of Epirus invaded Bulgaria shortly after Michael's ascension. Vatatzes captured the Bulgarian fortresses along the river Vardar; Michael of Epirus took possession of western Macedonia. In alliance with the Republic of Ragusa, Michael II Asen broke into Serbia in 1254, but he could not occupy Serbian territories. After Vatatzes died, he reconquered most territories lost to Nicea, but Vatatzes's son and successor, Theodore II Laskaris, launched a successful counter-offensive, forcing Michael to sign a peace treaty. Shortly after the treaty, discontented \"boyars\" (noblemen) murdered Michael.\n\nMichael was the son of Ivan Asen II of Bulgaria and Irene Komnene Doukaina. He was most probably born in 1239. His father, who died in the first half of 1241, was succeeded by Michael's seven-year-old half-brother, Kaliman. Kaliman died unexpectedly (possibly of poisoning, according to contemporaneous rumors) in August or September 1246.\n\nMichael, who was only seven or eight, succeeded his half-brother. According to a scholarly theory, Michael's mother ruled Bulgaria during his minority, but she stayed in Thessaloniki just three months after his coronation. According to another theory, his brother-in-law, \"Sevastokrator\" Peter, assumed the regency for the minor tsar. \n\nJohn III Doukas Vatatzes, Emperor of Nicaea, invaded Bulgaria soon after Kaliman's death. He captured Serres and seized Melnik with the support of the local inhabitants. He soon invaded the valley of the river Vardar, and occupied all fortresses in the region. Michael II Komnenos Doukas, ruler of Epirus, also broke into Bulgaria and occupied western Macedonia. The Bulgarians acknowledged Vatatzes's conquest in a peace treaty in late 1246 or in early 1247. The treaty also prescribed them to support Vatatzes against the Latin Empire of Constantinople.\n\nBéla IV of Hungary granted the Banate of Severin to the Knights Hospitaller on 2 June 1247. The charter of grant listed Bulgaria among the countries against which the Hospitallers were to provide military assistance, evidencing Béla's plan to attack Bulgaria. Despite the tense relationship between Hungary and Bulgaria, Bulgarian troops assisted Vatatzes to invade the Thracian territories of the Latin Empire in August 1247.\n\nWilliam of Rubruck, who visited the Mongol Empire between 1253 and 1255, listed Michael's realms (\"BlakiaAssan's territoryand Little Bulgaria\") among the countries paying tribute to the Mongols. Michael concluded an alliance with the Republic of Ragusa (now Dubrovnik in Croatia) against Stefan Uroš I, King of Serbia, in 1254. The treaty shows that \"Sevastokrator\" Peter ruled a large territory in Bulgaria almost independently of Michael. After Radoslav of Hum joined the coalition, Michael launched a campaign against Serbia, reaching as far as Bijelo Polje. According to a scholarly theory, a Hungarian attack against Bulgaria forced Michael to hastily return from Serbia.\n\nVatatzes died on 4 November 1254. Taking advantage of the absence of significant Nicene forces, Michael broke into Macedonia and reconquered the lands lost to Vatatzes in 1246 or 1247. The Byzantine historian, George Akropolites, recorded that the Bulgarian-speaking local inhabitants supported Michael's invasion because they wanted to shake off the \"yoke of those who spoke another language\". To secure a peaceful relationship with Hungary, Michael married Anna of Macsó, who was the daughter of Béla IV's daughter, Anna, and her husband, Rostislav Mikhailovich. A man and a woman depicted on an icon in the St Michael Church in Kastoria was wrongly associated with Michael and his wife (or mother).\n\nVatatzes's son and successor, Theodore II Laskaris, launched a counter-invasion in early 1255. When referring to the new war between Nicea and Bulgaria, Rubruck described Michael as \"a mere lad whose power has been eroded\" by the Mongols. Michael could not resist the invasion and the Nicene troops captured Stara Zagora. It was only the harsh weather that prevented Theodore's army from continuing the invasion. The Nicene troops resumed their attack in the spring and occupied most fortresses in the Rhodope Mountains. A rebellion at Melnik forced Theodore to march towards the town, but he managed to defeat the rioters before returning to Asia Minor for the winter.\n\nMichael broke into the European territory of the Empire of Nicea in the spring of 1256. He pillaged Thrace near Constantinople, but the Nicene army defeated his Cuman troops. He asked his father-in-law to mediate a reconciliation between Bulgaria and Nicea in June. Theodore agreed to sign a peace treaty only after Michael acknowledged the loss of the lands that he had claimed for Bulgaria. The treaty determined the upper course of the river Maritsa as the border between the two countries. The peace treaty outraged many boyars (noblemen) who decided to replace Michael with his cousin, Kaliman Asen. Kaliman and his allies attacked the Tsar who died from his wounds in late 1256 or early 1257.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096843", "title": "The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even", "text": "The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even\n\nThe Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even ('), most often called The Large Glass ('), is an artwork by Marcel Duchamp over tall, and freestanding. Duchamp worked on the piece from 1915 to 1923, creating two panes of glass with materials such as lead foil, fuse wire, and dust. It combines chance procedures, plotted perspective studies, and laborious craftsmanship. Duchamp's ideas for the \"Glass\" began in 1913, and he made numerous notes and studies, as well as preliminary works for the piece. The notes reflect the creation of unique rules of physics, and myth which describes the work.\n\nIt is at first sight baffling in iconography and unclassifiable style. Yet this glass construction is not a discrete whole. \"The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even\" is also the title given to \"The Green Box\" notes (1934) as Duchamp intended the \"Large Glass\" to be accompanied by a book, in order to prevent purely visual responses to it. The notes describe that his \"hilarious picture\" is intended to depict the erotic encounter between the \"Bride\", in the upper panel, and her nine \"Bachelors\" gathered timidly below in an abundance of mysterious mechanical apparatus in the lower panel. \"The Large Glass\" was exhibited in 1926 at the Brooklyn Museum before it was broken during transport and carefully repaired by Duchamp. It is now part of the permanent collection at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Duchamp sanctioned replicas of \"The Large Glass\", the first in 1961 for an exhibition at Moderna Museet in Stockholm and another in 1966 for the Tate Gallery in London. The third replica is in Komaba Museum, University of Tokyo.\n\n\"The Large Glass\" consists of two glass panels, suspended vertically and measuring . The entire composition is shattered, but it rests sandwiched between two pieces of glass, set in a metal frame with a wooden base. The top rectangle of glass is known as the Bride's Domain; the bottom piece is the Bachelors' Apparatus. It consists of many geometric shapes melding together to create large mechanical objects, which seem to almost pop out from the glass and ever-changing background.\n\nAll forms on the glass are outlined with lead wire and filled in with earth tone oil paint. The colors range from pale grey to gold to dark brown and black. Some figures are bumpy and cloudy, and contain the dust left on them during the time which the unfinished work lay dormant, which seems to be an attempt at capturing the dynamic passage of time in a sedate work.\n\nThe Bride is a mechanical, almost insectile, group of monochrome shaded geometric forms located along the left-hand side of the glass. She is connected to her halo, a cloudy form stretching across the top. Its curvilinear outline and grey shading are starkly offset by the three undulating squares of unpainted glass evenly spaced over the central part of the composition. The Bride's solid, main rectangular form branches out into slender, tentacle-like projections. These include an inverted funnel capped by a half-moon shape, a series of shapes resembling a skull with two misplaced ears, and a long, proboscis-like extension stretching down almost as far as the horizon line between her domain and that of the bachelors. Her top-located domain is almost completely monochrome, with a wash of beige comparable to the cool colors of a cloudy sky.\n\nThe Bachelors' earthbound, lower domain, referred to by Duchamp as \"La Machine Célibataire\" (The Bachelor Machine), is a collection of much warmer, earthier colors of brown and golden tones. The Bachelors' Domain centers on the nine \"Malic Molds\". These dark brown shapes have a central vertical line, some with horizontal ones across them. They resemble the empty carcasses of clothes hanging from a clothesline, much more than they do actual men. They are interconnected through a spider web of thin lines, tying them to the seven conical cylinders. The cylinders range in color, and move in stages from nearly transparent on the left side, to translucent in the middle, to almost opaque on the far right. The opaque ones have swirling dark brown and gold colors and are almost solid three-dimensional forms, whereas the translucent ones are more ghostly outlines. They are connected in a line from tip to base and form a half circle. This rainbow-like shape is impaled centrally by a pole which connects them to the \"chocolate grinder\" at the lower part of the glass, and to the X-shaped rods that dominate the top center of the Bachelors' Domain.\n\nThere is a chocolate grinder which consists of three drum-like structures, arranged in even spacing around a circular platform. They are appropriately chocolate brown in color, and are very textural, with a series of ridges running around their outside and spiraling out from the center. There are three tiny legs that barely seem to support the entire structure.\n\nThe rods interconnect to form a large X, and look like they recede into space. One end is smooth and cylindrical, while the other tapers at the end and is capped with a sphere. The spherical ends are connected to two more rods that run vertically down to yet another machine. It is a contraption similar to a waterwheel with spokes of a bicycle wheel. This is tilted away from the viewer, almost to the point that it is indistinguishable. This in turn is placed on two elongated ovals, which are almost like runners. These support the wheel, along with the framework of a metal box that encases it and intersects with the Bachelors' \"feet\".\n\nOn the right-hand side of the Bachelors' Domain are four faint, circular images. The top one is a perfect circle. A little below that are three circular images tilted away from the viewer. The first has twelve spokes, each spoke consisting of three lines. The middle is made of six concentric circles. The bottom is prickly-looking circle with a small hole in the middle, consisting of outward spiraling lines.\n\nThe composition's most dominating feature is the series of spider web cracks, running diagonally from the top right to bottom left of the Bride's Domain, and in an almost figure eight from the top left to bottom right of the Bachelors' Domain forming flowery, flowing designs. Neither cracks nor paint disrupt the right, central plane, which is devoid of decoration, and around which the action of the art plays out. These occurred when the piece was being moved from its first exhibition, and after effecting the repair, Duchamp decided he admired the cracks: an element of chance that enhanced what he had done intentionally, following the flow of energy in the work's composition.\n\nThe piece is placed in the Philadelphia Museum of Art gallery beside \"The Green Box\", the selection of Duchamp's own notes on \"The Large Glass\". It stands in front of a window, from which natural light creates a varying atmosphere depending on the time of day, the weather, and the season. It is also surrounded by his other works – both paintings and \"readymades\" – which form a background which the work otherwise is lacking. In this sense, this image of a frozen machine becomes extremely dynamic and engaging to the viewer.\n\nI bought two plate-glass panes and started at the top, with the Bride. I worked at least a year on that. Then in 1916 or 1917 I worked on the bottom part, the Bachelors. It took so long because I could never work more than two hours a day. You see, it interested me but not enough to be eager to finish it. I'm lazy, don't forget that. Besides, I didn't have any intention to show it or sell it at that time. I was just doing it, that was my life. And when I wanted to work on it I did, and other times I would go out and enjoy America.\n\nThe \"Large Glass\"...was gradually assuming the mysterious aura of a famous work of art that hardly anyone had seen. Duchamp's efforts to finish it became more and more sporadic. For six months the \"Glass\" lay untouched in the studio, gathering a thick layer of dust which Duchamp then proceeded to use as a pigment, gluing the dust down with varnish to one part of the \"bachelor machine\" (the \"sieves\") and wiping the rest away. This gave him a color that did not come from the tube... To arrive at the shapes of the \"draught pistons\" in the Bride's \"Milky Way\" (terms from Duchamp's own notes), he made use of the wind: he suspended a square of gauze in an open window, photographed it three times, and reproduced the wind-blown shapes at the top of the Glass. The placement of the Bachelors' nine \"shots\" (which never do reach the waiting Bride) was effected by dipping matches in wet paint and firing them from a toy cannon at the \"Glass.\" The forces of gravity, wind, and \"personalized chance\" were thus substituted for the workings of his own conscious hand, always in the spirit of hilarity that Duchamp once paraphrased as that \"necessary and sufficient twinkling of the eye,\" and always with the same meticulous, painstaking attention to detail that a scientist might apply to a controlled nuclear experiment.\n\nDuchamp's art does not lend itself to simple interpretations, and \"The Large Glass\" is no exception; the notes and diagrams he produced in association with the project – ostensibly as a sort of guidebook – complicate the piece by, for example, describing elements that were not included in the final version as though they nevertheless exist, and \"explaining\" the whole assembly in stream-of-consciousness prose thick with word play and jokes. Dubbed \"The Green Box\", this 'explanatory work' has been described as \"No less ambiguously or freely interpretable than [\"The Large Glass\"] itself...\" \n\nLinda Dalrymple Henderson picks up on Duchamp's idea of inventing a \"playful physics\" and traces a quirky Victorian physics out of the notes and \"The Large Glass\" itself; numerous mathematical and philosophical systems have been read out of (or perhaps into) its structures.\n\nMost critics, however, read the piece as an exploration of male and female desire as they complicate each other. One critic, for example, describes the basic layout as follows: \"\"The Large Glass\" has been called a love machine, but it is actually a machine of suffering. Its upper and lower realms are separated from each other forever by a horizon designated as the 'bride's clothes'. The bride is hanging, perhaps from a rope, in an isolated cage, or crucified. The bachelors remain below, left only with the possibility of churning, agonized masturbation.\" \n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "2096845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096845", "title": "Kaliman Asen II of Bulgaria", "text": "Kaliman Asen II of Bulgaria\n\nKaliman Asen II (), or commonly, but less accurately Koloman Asen II, ruled as tsar of Bulgaria for a short time in 1256. The year of his birth is unknown.\n\nKaliman Asen II was the son of \"sebastokrator\" Alexander, who was the younger brother of Ivan Asen II of Bulgaria. Kaliman Asen II's mother is unknown, and attempts to identify her as a Serbian princess are based on the erroneous identification of Kaliman Asen II with the \"sebastokrator\" Kaloyan, who was still alive in 1258/59.\n\nIn 1256 Kaliman Asen murdered his first cousin Michael Asen I during a hunting party in the environs of the capital Tărnovo and usurped the throne. In the process he married Michael Asen I's widow, the unnamed daughter of Rostislav Mihailovich, but he was unable to maintain himself on the throne. Rostislav advanced on Tărnovo from Belgrade, and Kaliman Asen II fled the capital. Rostislav returned home with his daughter and claiming the title of emperor of Bulgaria, while a brother-in-law of Michael Asen I, Mitso Asen took the throne. In the meantime, Kaliman Asen II had been murdered after being abandoned by most of his supporters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096846", "title": "The Complete Peerage", "text": "The Complete Peerage\n\nThe Complete Peerage (full title: \"The Complete Peerage of England, Scotland, Ireland, Great Britain, and the United Kingdom Extant, Extinct, or Dormant\"; first edition by George Edward Cokayne, Clarenceux King of Arms; 2nd edition revised by the Hon. Vicary Gibbs \"et al.\") is a comprehensive and magisterial work on the titled aristocracy of the British Isles.\n\n\"The Complete Peerage\" was first published in eight volumes between 1887 and 1898 by George Edward Cokayne (G. E. C.). This version was effectively replaced by a new and enlarged edition between 1910 and 1959 edited successively by Vicary Gibbs (Cokayne's nephew), H. A. Doubleday, Duncan Warrand, Lord Howard de Walden, Geoffrey H. White and R. S. Lea. The revised edition (published by the St. Catherine Press Limited), took the form of twelve volumes with volume twelve being issued in two parts. Volume thirteen was issued in 1940, not as part of the alphabetical sequence, but as a supplement covering creations and promotions within the peerage between 1900 and 1938.\n\nIt has subsequently been reprinted in a number of formats, most notably by Alan Sutton Publishers who reduced it in size to six volumes in a photographically reduced format (this contains four page images on each smaller page). It is also available on CD. A further reprint in six volumes appeared in 2000, together with Volume 14, which is an appendix, updating briefly from original publication (1910–1938) to 1995.\n\nAll volumes edited by George Cokayne.\n\nVolumes 1–5 have the title \"Complete peerage of England, Scotland, Ireland, Great Britain and the United Kingdom, extant, extinct or dormant\", and volumes 6–13: \"The complete peerage; or, A history of the House of lords and all its members from the earliest times\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2096849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096849", "title": "Smith's Hill High School", "text": "Smith's Hill High School\n\nSmith's Hill High School, also known as Smiths Hill High School, is a government-funded co-educational academically selective secondary day school, located in Wollongong, in the Illawarra region of New South Wales, Australia.\n\nEstablished in 1916, the school enrolled approximately 730 students in 2018, from Year 7 to Year 12, of whom 10 percent identified as Indigenous Australians and 32 percent were from a language background other than English. The school is operated by the NSW Department of Education; the principal is David Deitz.\n\nEstablished in 1916, the school is situated in central Wollongong and caters for students from Year 7 to Year 12. Its close proximity to the beach, Wollongong CBD, the University of Wollongong, the Illawarra Institute of Technology, Wollongong Entertainment Centre, Illawarra Performing Arts Centre and Beaton Park sporting complex allows it to provide a balanced curriculum in terms of academic pursuits, cultural and sporting experiences. The curriculum is supplemented by relevant excursions and extra-curricular activities which include camps and national competitions of an academic nature. Students are expected to participate in sport and are encouraged to pursue their strengths in all fields of endeavour. Students who choose to attend the school do so from an area which stretches from the southern suburbs of Sydney to in the south. All students are encouraged to become independent learners; make choices concerning their own learning paths; and to extend themselves through involvement in extra-curricular activities.\n\nThe application and testing process for students seeking enrolment into Year 7 at Selective Schools in NSW is centrally administered by the High Performing Students Unit of the New South Wales Department of Education. Applications for Year 7 are made in Year 5 with testing undertaken in Year 6. Applications open in mid-October and close in mid-November. Application Forms are available from local primary schools or can be downloaded from the High Performing Students Unit website when applications open. Students seeking a place at the school after Semester 1 in Year 7 make an application directly to the school. Each selective school administers its own application and selection processes for Years 8 – 12. Application packages are available from late June and need to be submitted by late July. Further information and application forms are also available from the High Performing Students Unit website.\n\nIn 1906, Wollongong Primary School began to offered vocational education courses for non-academic students. This included courses such as Household Accounts, Cookery, Laundry and Dressmaking. Five years later, in 1911, secondary courses were offered to academic students which allowed students to achieve the Intermediate Certificate and with further study, the Leaving Certificate.\n\nA separate school for these courses was then established in 1916 under the name Wollongong Home Science School. This school was a single-sex education school for girls only and was based on a site in Smith Street, Wollongong. In 1957, the school relocated to its current location on the former site of Wollongong High School in Gipps Street and then in 1958, was renamed as Smith's Hill Girls High School. The school then allowed non-academic students to achieve the Intermediate and Leaving Certificates.\n\nDuring the 1970s, plans were underway to change the school into a comprehensive, co-educational High School and in 1979 the school was renamed Smith's Hill High School. In 1985, boys were enrolled in Years 7, 8, 9 and 11 drawing from feeder schools at Wollongong, Coniston and Mount St Thomas. By 1986, SHHS was completely co-educational from Years 7 through 12.\n\nThen in 1988, the NSW Department of Education decided to make the school a selective high school and from 1989 the annual Year 7 intake of students was to be filled through exam selections. The school has remained completely selective ever since.\n\nStudents of Smith's Hill High School have consistently performed well in the NSW Higher School Certificate examinations, with the school placing 38th in the state in 2010 and having fifteen students make the All-round Achievers List. As a result of strong HSC performances, a high percentage of students from Smith's Hill High gain university entrance each year. This tradition of success has been in the school for many years.\n\nSmith's Hill offers a diverse range of subjects for both seniors and juniors in a number of key learning areas. For senior subjects which are unable to be offered due to lack of numbers, students are assisted to complete these subjects through distance education, in association with an appropriate distance education school.\n\nFor many years, Smith's Hill High School participated in the Rock Eisteddfod Challenge. The school was in the Grand Final every year from 2004 and was a regular Grand Final contender in years previous. Due to the preparation time required, and the high level of physical activity involved, the Rock Eisteddfod Challenge performance was worked on during weekly sport activities. Smith's Hill High School participated in two divisions of Rock Eisteddfod Challenge, the RAW Division for Years 8 through 10, and the Premier Division for Years 11 and 12. Unlike other schools, students were not required to audition and positions are filled with preference given to students based on their grade. Also, Smith's Hill was one of the few schools that offered Year 7 students an opportunity to compete, with the most recent Year 7 RAW production being 'Nelson Mandela: Son of Africa' in 2011, which came fifth in the state finals in Sydney. There were a number of teachers involved at Smith's Hill who were also part of the Rock Eisteddfod Challenge.\n\nIn 2006, the Premier Division team performed \"Tibet: Roof of the World\". The storyline included \"Tibetan monks paying their last respects to the previous Dalai Lama, as well as the 1949 Chinese invasion and the exile of His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama.\" After this performance, the team were granted a private audience with the Dalai Lama who asked the students to \"continue to spread his message of peace, spirituality and protection of the environment to others throughout the state.\"\n\nSmith's Hill regularly submits teams to participate in the Tournament of Minds competition. The school has had several successes in the competition with the 1998 team being state finalists, the 2002 and 2003 teams being national finalists and the 2005, 2018, 2019 x2 teams winning the national final. In 2008, for the first time two teams were entered in the competition which resulted in the Social Sciences team placing second in New South Wales and the Language Literature team gaining second place at the Australasian Finals in Melbourne. In 2010, the Applied Technology team succeeded in becoming national finalists and in 2012 the Maths and Engineering team scored tournament honours in the Australasian Finals in Perth.. In 2013, the Language Literature team again placed second at the Australasian Finals in Canberra. In 2015, a Language literature team also made it to the Australasian Pacific Finals in Sydney and gained tournament honours. In 2017, a Language literature team once again made it to the Australasian Pacific Finals in Adelaide and placed 2nd with tournament honours. In 2018, the Tournament of Minds Language / Literature team won internationals, the biggest win the school had experienced. In 2019 this was surpassed with two teams - Social Sciences and STEM - winning internationals at Hobart after winning the state tournament in 2019.\nSmith's Hill High School has a history in performing school productions such as musicals and plays. In 2001, Smith's Hill High School produced its first musical in recent history, performing Little Shop of Horrors. Since then, school productions have been staged regularly including performances of \"Oklahoma!\" and compilations of various other musicals. In 2015, the school staged an outstanding production of \"Guys and Dolls\".\n\nIn 2006, the production team of Ribbit Up Productions was formed by drama teacher Bryan Cutler and has since performed at least one original show per year including \"The Little Country That Could\", \"How to Host a Murder\", \"The Big Box\" and \"Overbelly\". A junior offshoot of the company was formed soon after known as Tadpole Productions which has performed shows such as \"Earthwatch\", \"Noughts and Crosses\", \"When Books Go Bump In The Night\", \"Personal Space\", \"Escape From RealiTV\" and most recently, \"Earthwatch 2.0\", a remake of the original with a brand new cast. In 2011, the company differed from its annual performance of an original play and instead performed an adaptation of Hamlet. In 2012 they performed \"The Magic Mountain\", and in 2013 \"Macguffin\". Returning again to Shakespeare in 2014, \"Whatever you Will\", a pastiche of Shakespeare's comedies, was performed. More recent names to Cutler's record include; \"Beethoven's Summer\" performed in 2015, which followed Cutler's personal recollections of his childhood and growing up in Australia, and in 2016, \"221a\" was performed which honoured the BBC's Sherlock (TV series). In 2017, Cutler returned to political satire in \"You Can't Have One Without the Other\" followed by an adaption of Shakespeare's Richard III in 2018, which saw widespread acclaim.\n\nDue to the cancellation of Rock Eisteddfod Challenge in 2010, the Smith's Hill music department offered the opportunity to students to participate in a production of the musical The Pajama Game. Performed in July 2010, the production placed second in the Arcadian Theatre Group's School Musical Theatre competition which involved judging of school musicals in the Illawarra. In 2013, the music department produced another musical, this time performing \"Anything Goes\". Several years later, in 2015, the school also did a production of the critically acclaimed musical \"Guys and Dolls\".\n\nSince 2008 Smith's Hill High School has entered into the High School Mooting Competition of Bond University to promote and encourage Legal Studies students within the school. The school has achieved much success in the competition achieving second at the National Finals in 2009 and reaching the National Finals in 2011.\n\nSmiths Hill High School has reached the NSW semi-finals for the Premier's Debating Challenge since 2007, winning the competition on five occasions, most recently in 2017.\n\nThe representative NSW Combined High Schools debating team has also included Smith's Hill students over the last several years. In recent years they won the Hume Barbour Trophy.\n\nFor many years Smith's Hill High School has had a chess team to be envied by rivals. For numerous years they have been decimating any opponent within sight, however the main period of dominance occurred between 2008 and 2013. These glory years for the Smith's Hill Chess Team can be attributed to one player; one player whose very name when mentioned near a chess board brings opponents to their knees and makes them cower in fear. The name of this chess god, none other than James Brodnik. He has been known to strike opponents down within 4 moves and make them wish they had never thought about attempting a game of chess. For 6 glorious years, Brodnik lead the Smith's Hill team with such courage and conviction that State Title became a common occurrence. While Smith's Hill remains dominant to this day, the glory years under Brodnik's command will never be forgotten.\n\nSmith's Hill also has a variety of music groups and ensembles. Each practice regularly and perform at special events, such as formal assemblies and open days including the School Expo, Presentation Nights and the 50th Birthday Open Day. At the end of the year, participating students get the opportunity to spend two days busking in Sydney. The music ensembles include:\n\nThis ensemble is for students who play violin, viola, double bass and cello, accompanied by a piano player. The ensemble usually plays arrangements of the classical genre, and is instructed by a professional tutor.\n\nRecently many folk, recent and more up-beat popular tunes have been played, such as compositions by Coldplay and Lady Gaga. It is available for anyone in the school who plays one of the instruments at a solid level.\n\nThe String Ensemble has played at eisteddfods, weddings and a number of other functions across the Illawarra.\n\nThis band is for students who can play brass or woodwind instruments, as well as percussion and instruments in the rhythm section.\n\nThe Vocal Ensemble is for any student who has an interest in singing. Smith's Hill's most accredited musical piece was their rendition of Beyonce's \"Halo\", performed angelically by an aspiring historian in 2017. Open to all students of sc is willing to participate in practices after school. This ensemble is great fun and all students learn about harmony and create beautiful harmony with each other.\n\nThe Chorale Group is a cappella group and entrance is by invitation only.\n\nThis ensemble is for students in Years 7–10 who have an interest in Jazz and can play an instrument suitable to the Jazz genre.\n\nFormerly known as the Stage Band, the Senior Jazz Band is a small performance group made up of experienced student musicians, and is designed to play at school events where it would be less practical for the Concert Band to perform.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096862", "title": "Ivan Asen III of Bulgaria", "text": "Ivan Asen III of Bulgaria\n\nIvan Asen III (, also Йоан Асен III, \"Ioan Asen III\", and in English \"John Asen III\"), ruled as tsar of Bulgaria 1279–1280. Ivan Asen III was the son of Mitso Asen of Bulgaria and Maria of Bulgaria, a daughter of Ivan Asen II of Bulgaria and Irene of Thessalonica. He was probably born in about 1259/60, and died in exile in 1303.\n\nFearing the rapid success of Ivaylo of Bulgaria, the Byzantine Emperor Michael VIII Palaiologos summoned Ivan Asen to his court, granted him the title of \"despotēs\", and married him to his eldest daughter Irene Palaiologina in 1277 or 1278. Michael VIII then sent several Byzantine armies to attempt to assert Ivan Asen III on the throne of Bulgaria. Although Ivailo defeated several of these attempts, he was blockaded for three months in Drăstăr (Silistra) by the Mongol allies of Michael VIII. In the interval a Byzantine force besieged the Bulgarian capital Tărnovo and, hearing a rumor of Ivailo's death in battle, the local nobility surrendered and accepted Ivan Asen III as emperor in 1279.\n\nTo strengthen his position in Tarnovo, Ivan Asen III married his sister Maria (Kira Maria) to the Bulgaro-Cuman nobleman George Terter, but failed to assert himself throughout the country. Ivailo reappeared before the walls of the capital and defeated two Byzantine attempts to relieve Ivan Asen III. Despairing of success, Ivan Asen III and Irene Palaiologina secretly fled Tarnovo with choice treasures from the palace treasury, including pieces captured from defeated Byzantine Emperors in former victories. Reaching Mesembria (Nesebăr), the imperial couple sailed for Constantinople, where the enraged Michael VIII refused to receive them for days for their cowardice.\n\nIn 1280 or 1281 Ivan Asen III traveled to the Golden Horde, competing with Ivailo in a bid to win support for restoration in Bulgaria. The Mongol chieftain Nogai Khan eventually had Ivailo murdered, but failed to restore Ivan Asen III in Bulgaria. The latter returned to his family possessions in the Troad, and died in 1303.\n\nIvan Asen III and Irene Palaiologina became the progenitors of the large and influential family Asan (or Asanes) in the Byzantine Empire, which prospered in various court and provincial offices until the end of the empire and its dependencies in the mid-15th century. One of Ivan Asen III's descendants, Irene Asanina (daughter of his son Andronikos Asan) married the future Byzantine Emperor John VI Kantakouzenos and through their daughter Helena (who married emperor John V Palaiologos), became the ancestress of later Byzantine emperors.\n\nBy his marriage with Irene Palaiologina, Ivan Asen III had the following children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096863", "title": "Take This Job and Shove It", "text": "Take This Job and Shove It\n\n\"Take This Job and Shove It\" is a 1977 country music song written by David Allan Coe and popularized by Johnny Paycheck, about the bitterness of a man who has worked long and hard with no apparent reward. The song was first recorded by Paycheck on his album also titled \"Take This Job and Shove It\". The recording hit number one on the country charts for two weeks, spending 18 weeks on the charts. It was Paycheck's only #1 hit.\n\nIts B-side, \"Colorado Kool-Aid,\" spent ten weeks on the same chart and peaked at #50.\n\nCoe's recording was released in 1978 on his album \"Family Album\". Coe also recorded a variation of the song called \"Take This Job and Shove It Too\" on his 1980 album \"I've Got Something To Say\". It included the double-meaning line \"Paycheck, you may be a thing of the past.\" Coe was annoyed that people assumed that Paycheck had written the song. (Though the single released by Paycheck, and subsequent album, both correctly credit Coe as the song's composer.)\n\nThe song inspired a 1981 film of the same name.\n\nA cover version also appears on \"Bedtime for Democracy\" by Dead Kennedys. Another cover version, \"Shove This Jay-Oh-Bee\", performed by Canibus with Biz Markie, appears in the film \"Office Space\". Chuck Barris and the Hollywood Cowboys performed a modified version of the piece as Barris's swan song when \"The Gong Show\" was kicked off NBC in 1978.\n\n\"Take this job and shove it\" became a popular phrase as a result of the song. It also became a snowclone phrase, leading to a variety of book and article titles of the form, \"Take this job and ... it\". The most notable is \"Take this job and love it\", which has been the title of dozens of books, mostly about career counseling, as well as the title of a 2007 episode of the television series \"Hannah Montana\". Another notable variation was the 2006 book \"Take This Job and Ship It\" by U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan. Another variation is the quote \"take this job and fill it\" from the \"Simpsons\" episode, \"Lisa vs. Malibu Stacy\". (Another related snowclone is \"take this ... and shove it,\" for any unpleasant or low-quality item.)\n"}
{"id": "2096869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096869", "title": "List of rivers of Bangladesh", "text": "List of rivers of Bangladesh\n\nBangladesh is a riverine country. According to Bangladesh Water development board (BWDB) about 230 rivers currently flow in Bangladesh (during summer and winter), although the number stated are ambiguous in some sources. As stated by a publication called \"বাংলাদেশের নদ-নদী\" by BWDB( Bangladesh Water development board), 310 rivers flow in the summer although they republished another study in 6 volumes where stated 405 rivers. The number differs widely due to lack of research on the counts and the fact that these rivers changes flow in time and season.Old sources and history states about 700 to 800 rivers but most of them dried out or extincted due to lack of attention and pollution. The numbers differ also because same river changes name in different regions and in history. About 17 rivers are on the verge of extinction and the 54 rivers flow directly from India and 3 from Myanmar. Total of 57 international rivers flow through Bangladesh. The international number of rivers can be 58 as \"Brahmaputra\" is called \"Nod\" while the general term for river is \"Nodi\". The gender division of rivers is interesting from history and mainly depending on the source of the river but not the size or flow briskness.\"Sangu\" and \"Halda\" are the only two internal rivers originated and finished within Bangladesh. \"Surma\" is the longest river and \"Karnafuli\" is the swiftest.\"Jamuna\" is the widest river. According to banglapedia 700 rivers flow in Bangladesh, but the information is old and obsolete.There is an including tributaries flow through the country constituting a waterway of total length around . But the number differs ambiguously due to the lack of updated information.Most of the country's land is formed through silt brought by the rivers. Bangladesh geography and culture is influenced by the riverine delta system. Bangladesh lies in the biggest river delta of the world - the Ganges Delta system.\n\nFollowing is a list of some of the major rivers of Bangladesh:\n\nMuch of Bangladesh's geography is dominated by the Ganges-Brahmaputra Delta, but the term \"Ganges\" is not widely used for the larger river's main distributary within Bangladesh. Where it flows out of India, the Ganges' main channel becomes the Padma River. Similarly, below its confluence with the Teesta River, the main channel of the Brahmaputra River is known as the Jamuna River.\n\nThere are quite a few rivers in the district of Bogura. Taking the Karatoya as the central dividing water-channel of the district, the other rivers may be classified into the eastern and the Western systems. The course of all the rivers is, with such allowances as must be made for beds and windings, nearly uniform north and south. The eastern rivers are Monas, Charkadaha and Khamati besides a few other smaller ones. Through the khiar tracts in the western parts of the district flow the Nagar, the Tulshiganga, Nagar and other minor streams. All the western rivers are the tributaries of the Atrai which itself flows into the Jamuna north of the confluence of that river with the Ganges (padma) at Goalunda.\n\nEvidences show that the rivers Karatoya and Nagar have changed their courses in the past, while the Jamuna, lying on the eastern boundary of the district, is in fact a new channel of the Brahmaputra. A very small river, Tarai used to occupy more or\nless the present location of the Jamuna. At that time the Brahmaputra used to flow to the east round the foot of the Garo Hills. The earliest evidence of the Brahmaputra river consists of a group of large Brahmaputra-size river scars which extend into the Sylhet basin flanking the southern edge of the Shillong plateau . The main river apparently extended east beyond this locality and then swung south into the Bay of Bengal. By the time of Rennell's mapping, this course had been abandoned in favour of a shorter route down what is still called the old Brahmaputra river past Mymensingh.\n\nBy the early 1770s the major diversion of the Brahmaputra into its present channel, west of the Madhupur jungle, had occurred. There is no complete agreement as to when this diversion down the Jenai river of Rennell occurred. Apparently by 1830 the diversion of low-river flow down the new channel was complete.\n\n\n\nThe rivers of the former Nadia district, of which Kushtia District was a part, were grouped together and known as \"Nadia Rivers\" because of the peculiar condition of the Nadia district and special measures taken by the government to keep them flowing. All the rivers of the former Nadia district (and of the present Kushtia District) were offshoots of the Padma (lower Ganges). But at one time when the Ganges found its way to the sea along the course of the Bhagirathi, there must have been some earlier streams to carry the drainage of the Darjeeling-Himalayas to the sea. Bhairab is said to be one of those streams. Later the Ganges drifted to the east and the Padma grew mighty, taking all the drainage of northern and upper Bengal.\n\n\nThe Jamuna, nowhere less than 4 miles wide during rains, is running in the west and the equally important Meghna encloses the district on the east. They are connected by the old channel of the Brahmaputra running through the centre of the district in a south-easterly direction from above Bahadurabad up to Bhairab Bazar.\n\n\nThe district of Noakhali is not intersected by so many rivers as the other deltaic districts of Bangladesh. On the west and south of the district and between the islands flows the Meghna with all its bifurcations each of which is much bigger than an ordinary river, and on the east the Feni subdivision is drained by the great and little Feni rivers. In the intervening country there are no rivers of any size and the drainage there depends on a few tidal channels or khals, of which the principal are the Noakhali khal, the Mahendra Khal and the Bhowaniganj Khal.\n\nIn sharp contrast with the mainland to its south, there is a network of khals in the islands. As one advances from the older formation of chars towards the newer ones, the number of khals gradually increases. The khals gradually silt up, but where diluvion goes on, new khals come into existence and the old ones become wider and wider.\n\n\nThe district is intersected by rivers of varying magnitude. But in fact, the river system is constituted by the Padma and the Jamuna with their interlacing offshoots and tributaries. Besides these flowing streams, the interior is visited by the abandoned beds of old rivers, most of which are dry except in the rains.\n\nThe general trend of the drainage of the Serajganj subdivision is from north-west to south-east, the rivers entering it from the north-west flow into the Jamuna after a tortuous course. In the Sadar subdivision, however, the general slope of the country is from west to east, and the main rivers fall into the Hurasagar, a tributary of the Jamuna.\n\n\nExcepting the Ganges or the Padma, the Mahananda and the Atrai, the rivers of Rajshahi district are of little hydrographic importance. For, most of the rivers are more or less moribund, that is, they are not active flowing streams except\nduring the rainy season. During the rainy season these moribund rivers act as excellent drainage channels draining off\na large volume of water and have a considerable current. Most of these rivers are narrow and flow in well-defined channels.\n\n\nTangail District is flanked on the west by the mighty river Jamuna, which is nowhere less than 4 miles wide during the rainy season. The Dhaleshwari, first an old channel of the Ganges and then of the Brahmaputra, cuts across the south-western corner of the district on its powerful sweep to join the Meghna near Narayanganj. The old name of Dhaleshwari was \"Gajghata\". It used to flow afterwards by the Salimabad Channel and then at last by Porabari Channel. A part of the eastern boundary of the district runs close to the Banar River. The river Bangshi flows almost down the middle of the district, branching out from the old Brahmaputta to the north from near Jamalpur. Bangshi falls into Dhaleswari near Savar, in Dhaka district. The Bangshi forms a natural barrier to the Madhupur Jungle on the Tangail side, all the way from Madhupur to Mirzapur. It is fordable at only two or three places near Basail on its my to river Meghna. Dhaleswari itself however takes out from the Jamuna from inside Tangail district.\n\nAmong other important rivers of the district, Lohajang is worth mentioning. It flows past the district headquarters of Tangail and is almost dead at present (in moribund condition). Other rivers are Khiru, Nanglai, Atia, and Jhinai. The old Brahmaputra's most important offshoot is the Jhinai; striking off near Jamalpur it rejoins the Jamuna north of Sarishabari, while another branch flows past Gopalpur. Now these sub-systems of rivers, viz, Bangshi and Banar, and the Lohajang, Khiru, Nangtai, Atia and Jhinai are all dying out because of the shift of the old Brahmaputra river from its former channel to the present Jamuna channel.\n\nThe most important question in connection with the river system of Tangail vis-a-vis Mymensingh district is when and why the Brahmaputra River changed its main old channel. During the last 150 years or so, this diversion of the old Brahmaputra to its present Jamuna channel has considerably prompted the geographers and geologists to enquire deep into it. Two theories are advanced: As explanation of the diversion, one theory describes the gradual uplift of the Madhupur Tract and a final trigger action of the Teesta diversion in 1787 as the chief factor; and the other theory states that the Brahmaputra diversion resulted directly from a major increase in its volume of water due to beheading of the Tsangpo river of Tibet by Dihang, a tributary of the then small Brahmaputral. It has now been proved that the great Tibetan river Tsangpo joined the Brahmaputra about 1780 and this accession was more important than the Teesta floods in deciding the Brahmaputra to try a shorter way to the sea.\n\nWith the help of Major James Rennell's maps (1764 to 1773) and of the Revenue Survey it is possible to reconstruct the history of the Bengal Delta and its river systems. It was Rennell who carried out the first ever accurate cadastral surveys and laid the basis for the geographical study of Bengal. At the end of the 18th century, probably as a result of the great Tista floods in 1787, the Brahmaputra changed its course and joined the Padma at Goulundo. No piece-meal study of an intricate river system is possible, without distortion and inadequacy.\n\nEven though we assume that the change in the course of the main waters of the old Brahmaputra took place suddenly in 1787, the year of the famous flooding of the Teesta river, the Teesta has been always a wandering river, sometimes joining the Ganges, sometimes being shifted outwards by the superior strength of the river Ganges and forced to join the Brahmaputra at last.\n\nWhatever might have been the cause, by 1830, the diversion of old Brahmaputra was complete, ushering in a gradual but radical change in the river system of the Tangail district. The old channel of the Brahmaputra had been reduced to its present insignificance.\n\nIn 1850 Sir Joseph Hooker wrote \"we are surprised to hear that within the last 20 years the main channel of Brahmaputra had shifted its course westwards, its eastern channel silted up so rapidly that the Jamuna eventually became the principal stream.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096875", "title": "Ivan Sratsimir of Bulgaria", "text": "Ivan Sratsimir of Bulgaria\n\nIvan Sratsimir or Ivan Stratsimir () was emperor (tsar) of Bulgaria in Vidin from 1356 to 1396. He was born in 1324 or 1325, and he died in or after 1397. Despite being the eldest surviving son of Ivan Alexander, Ivan Sratsimir was disinherited in favour of his half-brother Ivan Shishman and proclaimed himself emperor in Vidin. When the Hungarians attacked and occupied his domains, he received assistance from his father and the invaders were driven away.\n\nAfter the death of Ivan Alexander in 1371 Ivan Sratsimir broke off ties with Tarnovo and even placed the archbishop of Vidin under the jurisdiction of the Patriarchate of Constantinople to demonstrate his independence. Due to its geographical position, Vidin was initially safe from attacks by the Ottoman Turks who were ravaging the Balkans to the south and Ivan Sratsimir made no attempts to assist Ivan Shishman in his struggle against the Ottomans. Only after the fall of Tarnovo in 1393 did his policy become more active and he eventually joined the crusade of the Hungarian king Sigismund. However, after the disastrous battle of Nicopolis in 1396, the Ottomans marched to Vidin and seized it. Ivan Sratsimir was captured and imprisoned in Bursa where he was probably strangled. Although his son Constantine II claimed the title Emperor of Bulgaria and at times controlled some parts of his father's realm, Ivan Sratsimir is generally regarded by historians as the last ruler of medieval Bulgaria.\n\nSratsimir Hill on Trinity Peninsula in Antarctica is named after him.\n\nBorn in Lovech in 1324 or 1325, Ivan Sratsimir was the second son of Theodora and Ivan Alexander (r. 1331–1371), who was despot of Lovech at the time . Ivan Sratsimir was proclaimed co-emperor by his father in 1337 in his early teenage years, along with his brothers Michael Asen IV and Ivan Asen IV. This proved fatal for Bulgaria because the prerogatives of his sons' authority were not defined, leading to rivalry between the brothers. After his proclamation Ivan Sratsimir was given the rule of Vidin as an apanage, because his father wanted to have the different regions of the state under the direct rule of his family.\n\nIn the 1340s Ivan Sratsimir rose in prominence because he was married with Anna of Wallachia and already had children, while his eldest brother Michael Asen and his wife did not produce children for ten years. In 1352 Ivan Alexander introduced the title \"junior emperor\" in order to secure the smooth and secure transition of the throne and Ivan Sratsimir became known by that title. In the end of 1347 or in the beginning of 1348, however, Ivan Alexander divorced with his first wife and sent her to a monastery so he could marry the Jew Sarah-Theodora. That event spoiled the relations between Ivan Sratsimir and his father and the conflict deepened after the birth of Ivan Shishman to Ivan Alexander and Sarah-Theodora in 1350/1351. The conflict climaxed in 1355–1356 when the undisputed heir to the throne, Michael Asen IV, perished in battle against the Ottomans. According to the Majorat system, Ivan Sratsimir should have come next in the succession line but since Ivan Shishman was born in the purple, i.e. after his father was crowned, Ivan Alexander and Sarah-Theodora declared Ivan Shishman successor to the throne. A hint of the feud between father and son is the fact that the image of Ivan Sratsimir was not included in the Tetraevangelia of Ivan Alexander where the whole imperial family was pictured, including Ivan Alexander's son-in-law. That could mean either that Ivan Sratsimir was disinherited and proclaimed himself emperor in Vidin or that he was denied the title junior emperor and given the rule of Vidin as a compensation.\n\nIvan Sratsimir was proclaimed emperor in Vidin in 1356 and began to use the title \"Emperor of Bulgarians and Greeks\", as his father. In order to secure the alliance of Wallachia, he married his first cousin Anna, the daughter of the Wallachian voivode Nicholas Alexander, in 1356 or 1357, a move that was probably arranged with the help of Ivan Sratsimir's mother Theodora as a reaction to the actions of Ivan Alexander.\n\nHe ruled with the tacit consent of his father for around ten years until 1365 when the Hungarian king Louis I, who styled himself \"King of Bulgaria\" among the other titles, demanded that Ivan Sratsimir acknowledge his suzerainty and become his vassal. When the Bulgarian ruler refused, Louis I marched from Hungary on 1 May 1365 and captured Vidin on 2 June after a brief siege. The rest of the Vidin Tsardom was conquered in the next three months. Ivan Sratsimir and his family were captured and taken to the castle of Humnik in Croatia and the region of Vidin was placed under direct Hungarian rule governed through a Ban appointed by the King of Hungary. Ivan Sratsimir spent four years in honorary Hungarian captivity and he and his family were forced to accept Catholicism. The Hungarians also sent Franciscan friars to convert the population of the Vidin Tsardom to Catholicism. Although the Hungarian accounts boasted that the Franciscans converted 200,000 people, or a third of the region's population, this move brought great discontent among the Bulgarian population and eventually failed. That was in fact the first forceful conversion in the country after the Christianization of Bulgaria five centuries earlier. In a contemporary book, a monk wrote: \nInitially Ivan Alexander, who was still nominally the rightful ruler of Vidin, did not take active measures for its recovery, although his refusal to give safe conduct to the Byzantine emperor John V Palaiologos who was returning to Constantinople from Western Europe was explained by the deterioration of the Bulgarian–Hungarian relations. By 1369, however, he organised an Orthodox anti-Hungarian coalition for the liberation of Vidin with the participation of the Wallachian voivode Vladislav I Vlaicu and despot Dobrotitsa. The allied campaign was a success and after it was supported by a popular uprising in Vidin against the Catholic clergy and the Hungarian authority, Louis I had to give up his claims and restore Ivan Sratsimir to the throne in Vidin in the autumn of 1369. According to historian J. Fine, Ivan Sratsimir was allowed to return to Vidin by Louis I as a Hungarian vassal because of his popularity among the population and because Ivan Sratsimir used the Hungarian patronage to assert independence from his father and later to resist his brother in Tarnovo.\n\nAfter the death of emperor Ivan Alexander on 17 February 1371, Ivan Sratsimir broke off the last links that connected Tarnovo and Vidin and began to rule without even nominal acknowledgement to the authorities in Tarnovo. He was since styled, as written in the accounts of the Patriarchate of Constantinople: \"\"How should the Patriarch and the Archbishop write to ruler of Vidin and emperor Kamtsimir (Sratsimir): Most Faithful and Allmighty ruler of Vidin the whole of Bulgaria...\"\" The authority of Ivan Sratsimir was treated as equal to that of Ivan Shishman and the details suggest that he was even presented as a senior ruler. Due to the insufficient information, some early Bulgarian historians such as Konstantin Jireček supported the hypothesis that Ivan Sratsimir and Ivan Shishman were engaged in a military conflict over Sofia but the idea has been dismissed by most modern historians. In fact, despite the rivalry, the brothers scrupulously maintained relations until 1381 and Ivan Sratsimir was even considered as a potential successor by Ivan Shishman. However, J. Fine suggests that immediately after the death of his father, Ivan Sratsimir tried to seize the control over the whole of Bulgaria for himself and even captured and held Sofia for a year or two, which led to permanent hostility between the two brothers and spoiled any chances for a common Bulgarian resistance against the Ottomans.\n\nThe relations between the two Bulgarian states worsened in 1381 when Ivan Sratsimir broke the connections with the Bulgarian Patriarchate in Tarnovo and instead placed the Archbishopric of Vidin under the jurisdiction of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople. That decision was a demonstration of the independence of Vidin from Tarnovo but did not lead to open conflict between the two. The hostility between Ivan Sratsimir and Ivan Shishman remained on the eve of the Ottoman invasion. Most historians agree that in the 1370s and the early 1380s Vidin was still away from the route of the Ottoman campaigns and was not endangered. During and after the massive Ottoman invasion in north-eastern Bulgaria in 1388, sources suggest that relations between the two brothers were uneasy. As a result of the Ottoman success in the 1388 campaign and the resulting changes of the balance of power, Ivan Sratsimir had to become an Ottoman vassal and to accept an Ottoman garrison in Vidin. Ivan Sratsimir remained inactive while the Ottomans destroyed the remains of the Tarnovo Tsardom – Tarnovo fell in 1393 and Ivan Shishman was killed in 1395. In 1396 Ivan Sratsimir joined the Christian crusade organised by the Hungarian king Sigismund. When the crusader army reached Vidin the Bulgarian ruler opened the gates and surrendered the Ottoman garrison. The Ottoman garrison of Oryahovo tried to resist but the local Bulgarians managed to capture it. However, the Christian army suffered a heavy defeat on 25 September in the battle of Nicopolis and the victorious Ottoman sultan Bayezid I immediately marched to Vidin and seized it by the end of 1396 or the beginning of 1397. Ivan Sratsimir was captured and imprisoned in the Ottoman capital Bursa where he was probably strangled.\n\nAlong with Tarnovo, during the rule of Ivan Sratsimir Vidin emerged as a major literary center, under the strong influence of the Tarnovo Literary School. Some of the works that have survived from that period include the \"Tetraevangelia of the Metropolitan Danail\" and the \"Vidin collection\" from 1360, ordered by Empress Anna, which contains the hagiographies of thirteen Orthodox saints and a description of the holy sites in Jerusalem. Joasaph of Bdin, who was elected Archbishop of Vidin in 1392 wrote \"Praising epistle for the movement of St Philotea relics from Tarnovo to Vidin\" which contained all features of the Tarnovo Literary School. Joasaph also demonstrated great respect to Patriarch Evtimiy of Tarnovo, the most prominent figure in the Bulgarian cultural and literary life in the second half of the 14th century.\n\nIn the late 1360s the region of Vidin resisted the forceful conversion to Catholicism undertaken by the Hungarian authorities and remained Orthodox. The subjugation of Vidin to the Patriarchate of Constantinople in 1381 led to a conflict with the Patriarchate of Tarnovo but after the fall of Tarnovo and the dissolution of the Bulgarian Patriarchate, Ivan Sratsimir tried to negotiate with the Ottomans to place some of the former eparchies of Tarnovo in his jurisdiction. In 1395 he sent there a delegation led by the heir to the throne Constantine and Joasaph of Bdin to bring the relics of Saint Philotea to Vidin. According to Joasaph the mission was successful and the relics remained in Vidin for the next two centuries. However, he does not mention the diplomatic results.\n\nIvan Sratsimir began to mint his own coinage to show his legitimacy as early as the 1360s. The abundance of coin treasure troves found in the territory of the Tsardom of Vidin is an indication of the wealth and the well developed trade in the region during the second half of the 14th century. The Brașov Charter, the only surviving document made by Ivan Sratsimir, grants the merchants of the Transylvanian town of Brașovfree access and the right to trade in his realm.\n\nNothing is known about Ivan Stratsimir's first wife and children apart from their existence. Ivan Sratsimir married for a second time to his first cousin, Anna of Wallachia, a daughter of his uncle Nicholas Alexander of Wallachia, and had at least three children. Dorothea (Doroslava), married Ban Tvrtko I of Bosnia and became the first Queen of Bosnia while Constantine II succeeded him as Emperor of Bulgaria. Sratsimir also had another daughter, who died young at the court of Elizabeth of Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096880", "title": "Plymouth, Yarmouth County, Nova Scotia", "text": "Plymouth, Yarmouth County, Nova Scotia\n\nPlymouth is a small rural community located in Yarmouth County, Nova Scotia. It is located on the west side of the Tusket River approximately five kilometers from the main Trunk 3 on route 334.\n\n\"Neketaouksit\" (meaning \"the great tidal river\"), the Native name for the Tusket River, included the area of Plymouth. The present name was probably given by the Loyalists who came here from Shelburne in 1758.\n"}
{"id": "2096887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096887", "title": "Ivan Shishman of Bulgaria", "text": "Ivan Shishman of Bulgaria\n\nIvan Shishman () ruled as emperor (tsar) of Bulgaria in Tarnovo from 1371 to 3 June 1395. The authority of Ivan Shishman was limited to the central parts of the Bulgarian Empire. \n\nIn the wake of the death of Ivan Alexander, the Bulgarian Empire was subdivided into three kingdoms among his sons, with Ivan Shishman taking the Tаrnovo Kingdom situated in central Bulgaria and his half brother Ivan Sratsimir holding the Vidin Tsardom. Although his struggle to repel the Ottomans differentiated him from the other rulers on the Balkans like the Serbian despot Stephan Lazarevic who became a loyal vassal to the Ottomans and paid annual tribute and participated in all of the Ottoman campaigns subsequent to the battle of Kosovo, contributing a 5,000 strong contingent of christian knights. Although Ivan Shishman has been categorized as indecisive and inconsistent in his policy in the past, this was done with little regard for an understanding of the context of the conditions and limited resources that this ruler had at his disposal. It is notable that Ivan Shishman is the only Balkan ruler for whom there is no evidence of tribute paid to the Ottoman empire or any military aid provided. Based on historical evidence and the numerous folk songs of the region glorifying his struggle against the Ottoman invaders, the image of Ivan Shishman is one of fierce and concerted resistance to the Ottoman incursions.\nRegardless, in 1393 the Ottoman Turks seized the capital Tarnovo. Two years later, Sultan Bayezid I captured Nicopolis with a surprise approach from the north of the fortress after two failed campaigns in Hungary and Wallachia, summoning Ivan Shishman on the false pretense of a discussion and had him executed by beheading.\n\nDespite the military and political weakness, during his rule Bulgaria remained a major cultural center and the ideas of Hesychasm dominated the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. Patriarch Evtimiy of Tarnovo became the most prominent cultural figure of the country. A number of texts were written or translated and an orthographic reform of the Bulgarian language was issued with synchronised rules. After the fall of Bulgaria, a number of scholars found refuge in the other Orthodox countries and brought the achievements of the Bulgarian culture to them.\n\nHis reign was inextricably connected to the fall of Bulgaria under Ottoman domination. In Bulgarian folklore Ivan Shishman is portrayed as a legendary and heroic ruler who desperately fought against the overwhelming Ottoman forces. There are numerous sites, geographical features and fortresses named after him throughout Bulgaria.\n\nBorn in 1350 or 1351, Ivan Shishman was the eldest son of emperor Ivan Alexander (r. 1331–1371) and his second wife Sarah–Theodora, a Jew converted to the Eastern Orthodox Church. His birth brought up the issue of the succession to the Bulgarian throne. Ivan Shishman had two elder brothers by the Ivan Alexander's first wife, Theodora of Wallachia. The eldest one, Michael Asen, was proclaimed successor to the throne and co-emperor shortly after Ivan Alexander's accession to the throne. However, Michael Asen's early death in battle against the Ottomans in 1355 put forward the question of succession once more. It is likely that Sarah–Theodora pressured Ivan Alexander to select her own son as his successor, although Ivan Sratsimir would have come next under the majorat system. The issue was decided in Ivan Shishman's favour because the latter was born in the purple (after his father was crowned), thus making him eligible as successor. By the end of 1355, Ivan Shishman had been proclaimed heir to the throne and co-emperor.\n\nThese events led to a conflict with Ivan Sratsimir, who was in turn given the rule of Vidin, probably as a compensation. Another indirect piece of evidence for the feud is the fact that Ivan Sratsimir's portrait not included in the Tetraevangelia of Ivan Alexander, where the whole family of the emperor was otherwise presented. In 1356 Ivan Sratsimir proclaimed himself emperor of Vidin. Together with his father and younger brother Ivan Asen V, Ivan Shishman presided over the church synods at Tarnovo in the late 1360s.\n\nIvan Shishman was proclaimed emperor after the death of his father on 17 February 1371, when he was in his early 20s. Ivan Shishman inherited only parts of his father's realm: he ruled the lands between the Iskar River and Silistra, the valley of Sofia, parts of the Rhodope mountains and northern Thrace. To the west, the areas centred around Vidin recognised Ivan Sratsimir as emperor of Bulgaria, while to the east, the Principality of Karvuna, encompassing the coastal strip between the Danube Delta and Cape Emine and under the rule of despot Dobrotitsa, did not recognise the authority of the emperor of Tarnovo either. Contemporary chroniclers such as Johann Schiltberger speak of three regions, all of which were called Bulgaria. Thus, the country was divided on the eve of the Ottoman invasion, despite Ivan Shishman's claims in his royal charters. In these, he styled himself as a primary emperor in an attempt to emphasise the existence of a hierarchy among the rulers of the three Bulgarias. However, that hierarchy remained only in paper; to further assert their independence from Tarnovo, both Ivan Sratsimir and Dobrotitsa separated their dioceses from the Bulgarian Patriarchate in Tarnovo. According to Fine, immediately after the death of Ivan Alexander, Ivan Sratsimir tried to conquer the whole of Bulgaria. He was able to capture Sofia and managed to hold the city for one or two years. The rivalry between the two brothers for Sofia had a strong tradition in the Bulgarian historiography since the time of Konstantin Jireček, but it has been dismissed by many modern Bulgarian historians.\n\nOnly a few months after the ascension of Ivan Shishman to the throne, on 26 September 1371, the Ottoman Turks defeated a large Christian army led by the Serbian brothers Vukašin Mrnjavčević and Jovan Uglješa in the Battle of Chernomen. Although Uglješa had tried to create a broad coalition that would include Bulgaria, Ivan Shishman, who had to strengthen his own authority, did not join. After their victory at Chernomen, the Turks immediately turned on Bulgaria. Ottoman sultan Murad I forced Ivan Shishman to retreat to the north of the Balkan Mountains and conquered northern Thrace, the Rhodopes, Kostenets, Ihtiman and Samokov. Unable to resist the attacks, Ivan Shishman had to negotiate with the Ottomans in 1373. He was forced to become an Ottoman vassal and to allow his sister Kera Tamara, who was known for her beauty, to become a wife of Murad I. Under this agreement, Bulgaria regained some of the conquered territories such as Ihtiman and Samokov, and began nearly ten years of uneasy peace with the Turks. Despite the vassalage and the peace treaty, Ottoman raids were renewed in the beginning of the 1380s and culminated in 1385 with the fall of Sofia, the last stronghold of Ivan Shishman to the south of the Balkan Mountains.\n\nIn the meantime, Ivan Shishman was engaged in a war against the voivode of Wallachia, Dan I, between 1384 and 1386. There are few details about that war, only a brief note in the \"Anonymous Bulgarian Chronicle\" that Dan I died 23 September 1386 after being poisoned. The war was linked to the hostilities between Ivan Shishman and Ivan Sratsimir (Dan I's uncle), who had the support of the Wallachian rulers and was married to Anna of the House of Basarab.\n\nIn 1387, the united forces of the Principality of Serbia and the Kingdom of Bosnia managed to defeat the Ottomans in the Battle of Pločnik. Encouraged by the Christian success, Ivan Shishman immediately invalidated his vassalage to Murad I and refused to send troops in his support in 1388. The Ottomans reacted by sending a 30,000-strong army, under the command of the Grand Vizier Çandarlızade Ali Pasha, to the north of the Balkan Mountains. The Ottoman troops seized the fortresses of Shumen, Madara, Venchan and Ovech. Ivan Shishman left Tarnovo and headed to Nikopol, where he was besieged and forced to ask for peace. The Ottomans requested that he reconfirm his vassalage in addition to surrendering Silistra, at the time the most populous Bulgarian city along the Danube. However, Ivan Shishman, reassured by his neighbours that he would receive support and the preparations of Serbia for war, not only refused to let the Ottomans in the city, but also strengthened its walls. Ali Pasha crossed the Balkan Mountains for a second time to consecutively capture Shumen, Cherven, Svishtov and once again besiege Ivan Shishman in Nikopol. Surprised by the swift Ottoman response and having not received the promised assistance, the Bulgarian emperor had to ask for peace. His pleas were accepted, but the terms were harsher than the original: not only Silistra was to be surrendered, but Ottoman garrisons were to be stationed in other Bulgarian cities, most notably Shumen and Ovech.\n\nAfter the defeat of the Serbs and Bosniaks in the Battle of Kosovo on 15 June 1389, Ivan Shishman had to seek help from Hungary. During the winter of 1391–1392, he entered into secret negotiations with the King of Hungary Sigismund, who was planning a campaign against the Turks. The new Ottoman sultan Bayezid I pretended to have peaceful intentions in order to cut off Ivan Shishman from his alliance with the Hungarians. However, in the spring of 1393 Bayezid gathered a large army from his dominions in the Balkans and Asia Minor and attacked Bulgaria. The Ottomans marched to the capital Tarnovo and besieged it. The defence of the capital was led by Patriarch Evtimiy because Ivan Shishman was located in Nikopol, presumably for better communication with Sigismund. After a three-month siege, Tarnovo fell on 17 July. According to the contemporary Bulgarian scholar and cleric Gregory Tsamblak, the city was not captured because of the Ottoman military strength but due to treason. The Ottoman campaign of 1393 devastated Bulgaria; in the wake of that invasion, the lands of Ivan Shishman were limited to Nikopol and several towns along the Danube. Upon his return from Wallachia after the Battle of Rovine in 1395, Bayezid I attacked and captured Nikopol and, according to the \"Anonymous Bulgarian Chronicle\", murdered Ivan Shishman on 3 June 1395. A Byzantine chronicle gives the date as 29 October. However, some sources suggest that the Bulgarian ruler was captured and died in prison.\n\nThe cultural revival that made the historians call the reign of Ivan Alexander a \"Second Golden Age of Bulgarian culture\" continued under his son. The most prominent figure in that field during the last quarter of the 14th century was Patriarch Evtimiy of Tarnovo (r. 1375–1393), a disciple of Theodosius of Tarnovo. In 1371 he established the Monastery of the Holy Trinity, a few kilometres to the north of Tarnovo, and turned it into an important cultural center and a major hub of the Tarnovo Literary School. Evtimiy wrote a number of religious works, including hagiographies, praises and letters, but is most famous with the orthographic reform and the standardization of the Bulgarian language, which had an impact in Serbia, Wallachia and the Russian principalities. Evtimiy thought that many of the scholars were not sufficiently prepared, and that the translations of Greek texts in local dialects and peculiarities could lead to misinterpretation of the original and eventually to heretism. The texts regarding the reform did not survive, although its character has been partly recreated by the historians and linguists by analyzing the works of Evtimiy himself and his disciples. The orthography was inspired by the original Old Church Slavonic during the heyday of the First Bulgarian Empire; the reform also included syntax changes and enrichment of the lexicon with a number of synonyms to avoid repetition. To ensure the success of the reform, all texts had to receive approval before publishing, a move that was supported by Ivan Shishman in his edicts. The capital Tarnovo was the main cultural center at that time. Patriarch Evtimiy wrote about it:\n\nBulgarian historians have had mostly negative assessments of Ivan Shishman. He is often viewed as having intruded onto the throne due to the intrigues of his mother and thus taking the place of the rightful successor, his elder brother Ivan Sratsimir. This eventually resulted in the division of the country on the eve of the Ottoman invasion. There are no direct historical sources to suggest any significant attempts by Ivan Shishman to fight off the Turks. The inconsistent policy of Ivan Shishman has been described as revealing his weakness and inability to cope with the situation. His rule, however, was still remembered in the 16th century. In a treaty signed in 1519 between the Ottoman sultan Selim I and Louis II of Hungary, some of the lands in question were referred to as \"terra cesaris Sysman\", \"the land of emperor Shishman\".\n\nThe memory of Ivan Shishman remained during the first centuries of the Ottoman rule. During the First Tarnovo uprising in 1598, the one of the rebels' leaders, whose name is unknown, claimed to have been a descendant of Ivan Shishman and was proclaimed emperor under the name Shishman III. Almost a century later, in 1686, a second uprising in Tarnovo was headed by Rostislav Stratimirovic, who also claimed to have belonged to the Shishman dynasty and styled himself as Prince of Bulgaria.\n\nIvan Shishman is now among the most popular and well-known rulers in the Third Bulgarian State. There are a number of works dedicated to him or his rule, including the 1969 film \"Tsar Ivan Shishman\" by Yuri Arnaudov and the song \"Tsar Ivan Shishman\" by the heavy metal band Epizod in the 2004 album \"Saint Patriarch Evtimiy\". Shishman Peak on Livingston Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is also named after him.\n\nIvan Shishman is the most prominent medieval ruler in Bulgarian folklore. His name is heard in a number of legends, myths, tales and songs. He is represented as a heroic ruler who fought and died for his country, facing overwhelming enemy forces. There are a number of places throughout Bulgaria named after him, ranging from castles and ruins to rocks, caves and localities. That legendary “geography” is mainly concentrated in the region of Sofia, Ihtiman and Samokov, though it extends to the Rhodope Mountains, Sredna Gora, Vratsa, Pleven, Prilep, Varna, etc. Near Samokov are the ruins of \"Shishman's Fortress\" with the emperor's wells, which reputedly spouted from the ruler's seven wounds. Further north, along the cliffs and heights of the Iskar Gorge, are \"Shishman's Holes\", the caves where he hid while fighting the Ottomans for seven years. Other related toponyms usually associated with the emperor's last stand are Kokalyane (derived from \"kokal\", meaning \"bone\"), Cherepish (from \"cherep\", \"skull\") and Lyutibrod (\"Fierce Ford\"), all thought to be hinting at the fate of the perished Bulgarian troops.\n\nOne of the most famous legends is about Shishman's final battle. The Ottomans camped at Kostenets, near the origins of the Maritsa river, while the Bulgarians were near Samokov, on a hill. After a fierce battle, Ivan Shishman was wounded seven times and retreated to the fortress, where he died; on the battlefield seven springs appeared, one for each of the emperor's wounds. He is also said to have fought in the Balkan mountains at \"Shishkin grad\" (\"Shishman's town\"), between Sliven and Kazanlak, where he killed 10,000 janissaries in a huge battle. The 18th century Bulgarian enlightener Paisius of Hilendar wrote in his \"Istoriya Slavyanobolgarskaya\" that during the siege of Tarnovo Ivan Shishman managed to reach Sofia with his boyars. He hid his treasury in the Iskar gorge and fought against the Turks for seven years before dying in battle. Some versions suggest that Kokalyanski Urvich remained the last fortress to fall and before Shishman died he buried treasure under the castle and tried to escape by cutting a passage through the mountain. The repeating motif of the treasure is a sacral symbol of the Bulgarian statehood and the usual locations of the imperial jewellery are monasteries, lakes or hideouts under rivers. Being undiscovered by the invaders, the treasure symbolises the sovereignty and power of the Bulgarian Empire and its inevitable resurrection. There are also a number of parallels between the legends about Ivan Shishman and the hagiography of saints, especially John of Rila, including the almost identical route of the emperor, Tarnovo-Sofia-Samokov in Rila, and the route of the return of the relics of Saint John of Rila to the Rila Monastery in 15th century – Tarnovo-Sofia-Rila, and also the motif of the immortal rulers who foresees the restoration of the country.\n\nIvan Shishman is one of the few rulers to be mentioned in the Bulgarian folklore songs and, as in the legends, is a subject of mystification. His figure can even be seen in Christmas carols, where he is presented either as a saint in the role of protector or as a hero fighting dragons and oppressors, usually presented as Tatars because of the resemblance with the Tartarus. The songs about Ivan Shishman contain many parallels with nature and collocations which are typical of Bulgarian folklore. In a song from the region of Sliven, the death of the emperor brings chaos to nature and rivers of \"black blood\" (typical folklore collocation) start flowing.\n\nThe place of Ivan Shishman in the Bulgarian legends and folklore is most likely attributed to the fact that he was the last Bulgarian emperor in Tarnovo. There are many similarities with his contemporary King Marko, the ruler of Prilep, who did little to resist the Ottoman invasion but later became the most popular character in the Bulgarian folklore. The people desired to berhyme the image of the \"ideal emperor\", a defender and protector, whose strength they needed to survive under Ottoman domination, and not the actual historical personality. As time passed the mystification deepened and the legends became more distant from the actual events during his rule. During the Bulgarian National Revival the tales about Ivan Shishman began to increasingly include patriotic elements.\n\nIvan Shishman was married first to a Bulgarian named Kira Maria, who died in the early 1380s. His second wife was Dragana Lazarević, a daughter of Prince Lazar of Serbia and Milica Nemanjić and kin to the previous Serbian dynasty. His eldest son Alexander converted to Islam under the name Iskender, and died as governor of Smyrna in 1418, while his second son Fruzhin participated in revolts and campaigns against the Ottomans, trying to liberate his father's realm, and died in Hungary after 1444. It has been speculated by historians, such as Plamen Pavlov, that Patriarch Joseph II of Constantinople was an illegitimate son of Ivan Shishman. The claim is based on a Byzantine text which says \"They said that he [Jozeph II] was an illegitimate son of the emperor Shishman.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096891", "title": "Theodore Svetoslav of Bulgaria", "text": "Theodore Svetoslav of Bulgaria\n\nTheodore Svetoslav (, \"Todor Svetoslav\" and also Теодор Светослав, \"Teodor Svetoslav\") ruled as emperor (tsar) of Bulgaria from 1300 to 1322. The date of his birth is unknown. He was a wise and capable ruler who brought stability and relative prosperity to the Bulgarian Empire after two decades of constant Mongol intervention in the internal issues of the Empire. Theodore Svetoslav's reign began with the return of Southern Bessarabia to Bulgaria and a few years later he managed to defeat the Byzantines and retake most of northern Thrace occupied by them during the crisis. After 1307 he led a peaceful policy towards all neighbours, which resulted in expanded trade and economy.\n\nApart from his external and economic successes, Theodore Svetoslav dealt with the separatists among the nobility including his uncle. He persecuted the traitors who he thought were responsible for the Mongol interference and even the Patriarch, Joachim III, was executed.\n\nTheodore Svetoslav was the son of George Terter I by Maria. Soon after the accession of Ivan Asen III in 1279 his father divorced his mother in order to marry the sister of the new emperor. Maria and Theodore Svetoslav were sent to the Byzantine Empire as hostages, and settled in Nicaea.\n\nThe accession of George Terter I to the throne in 1280 did not alter matters, but in 1281 Theodore Svetoslav was betrothed (in absentia) to a daughter of the \"sebastokratōr\" John I Doukas of Thessaly, as part of a diplomatic alliance. The young bride-to-be arrived in Tărnovo, but never met her intended husband.\n\nIn 1284 George Terter I concluded a new treaty with Andronikos II Palaiologos, and retrieved his first wife, while Theodore Svetoslav at first remained a hostage. The same treaty required the breaking off of the alliance with Thessaly and Theodore Svetoslav's intended bride was also sent to Byzantium. It was only in 1285 that the Patriarch of Bulgaria Joakim III arrived in Constantinople and arranged for the release of Theodore Svetoslav, who was now supposed to marry a daughter of the high court official John Synadenos. We have no information whether this marriage materialized.\n\nIn Bulgaria Theodore Svetoslav was associated as co-emperor by his father, who issued coins representing them side by side. Nevertheless, after particularly devastating Mongol raids, George Terter I dispatched his son as hostage to Nogai Khan, the effective leader of the Mongol Golden Horde in about 1289. Perhaps in connection with the same events, Theodore Svetoslav's unnamed sister married Nogai's son Chaka. During part of his exile, Theodore Svetoslav became impoverished and sought to improve his fortunes by marrying the rich Euphrosyne, the god-daughter of Nogai's wife Euphrosyne Palaiologina, who was herself an illegitimate daughter of Emperor Michael VIII Palaiologos.\n\nTheodore Svetoslav left obscurity in 1298 or 1299, when he accompanied his brother-in-law Chaka in an invasion of Bulgaria. The regency for Ivan II fled Tărnovo in 1299, and Theodore Svetoslav helped convince the Bulgarian nobility to accept Chaka as ruler. However, the armies of the khan of the Golden Horde Toqta entered Bulgaria in pursuit of his enemy Chaka, and Theodore Svetoslav promptly organized a plot, deposing Chaka and having him strangled in prison in 1300. Theodore Svetoslav now became emperor of Bulgaria and sent Chaka's severed head as a present to Toqta, who withdrew his armies from the country.\n\nThe reign of Theodore Svetoslav is connected with the internal stabilization and pacification of the country, the end of Mongol overlordship, the reassertion of relatively effective central control over outlying provinces, and the recovery of portions of Thrace lost to the Byzantine Empire since the wars against Ivaylo of Bulgaria.\n\nTheodore Svetoslav pursued a ruthless course of action, punishing all who stood in his way, including his former benefactor, Patriarch Joachim III, who was accused of treason and executed. In the face of the new emperor's brutality, some noble factions sought to replace him with other claimants to the throne, backed by Andronikos II. A new claimant appeared in the person of the \"sebastokratōr\" Radoslav Voïsil or Vojsil, from Sredna Gora, a brother of the former emperor Smilets, who was defeated, and captured by Theodore Svetoslav's uncle, the \"despotēs\" Aldimir (Eltimir), at Krăn in about 1301. Another pretender was the former emperor Michael Asen II, who unsuccessfully tried to advance into Bulgaria with a Byzantine army in about 1302. Theodore Svetoslav exchanged thirteen high-ranking Byzantine officers captured on Radoslav's defeat for his father George Terter I, whom he settled in a life of luxury in an unidentified city.\n\nAs a consequence of his victories, Theodore Svetoslav felt secure enough to move on to the offensive by 1303 and captured the fortresses of northeastern Thrace, including Mesembria (Nesebăr), Anchialos (Pomorie), Sozopolis (Sozopol), and Agathopolis (Ahtopol) in 1304. The Byzantine counterattack failed at the battle of Skafida near Poros (Burgas), where the Co-emperor Michael IX Palaiologos was turned to flight. Nevertheless, the war continued, with Michael IX and Theodore Svetoslav taking turns pillaging each other's lands. In the following 1305 Theodore Svetoslav's uncle Aldimir appears to have entered into negotiations with the Byzantines, and Theodore Svetoslav annexed his uncle's lands. In 1306 Theodore Svetoslav gained the services of the rebellious Alan mercenaries to the Byzantines, whom he settled in Bulgaria, and made unsuccessful overtures to the mercenaries of the Catalan Company, who had also rebelled against their Byzantine employers. The war ended with a peace treaty in 1307, cemented with a marriage between the widowed Theodore Svetoslav and Theodora, a daughter of the Co-emperor Michael IX Palaiologos.\nUntil the end of his life Theodore Svetoslav remained at peace with his neighbors. His reassertion of central control over outlying provinces such as Vidin was probably peaceful, and the sparsely documented recovery of the banate of Severin from the Kingdom of Hungary must have been achieved during the dynastic struggles in that country. In 1318 the Serbian King Stefan Uroš II Milutin visited Tărnovo, in spite of his earlier alliance with Andronikos II and his divorce from Theodore Svetoslav's sister Anna.\n\nThe only possible sign of new hostilities are two Mongol raids into Byzantine Thrace in 1320 and 1321, but these were probably executed with Bulgarian cooperation and are connected with the beginning of the civil war between Andronikos II Palaiologos and his grandson Andronikos III Palaiologos. In fact, Theodore Svetoslav sent military support to his brother-in-law Andronikos III, allegedly hoping to ensnare and capture his ally.\n\nAfter a surprisingly successful reign (given the misadventures of his youth), Theodore Svetoslav died in early 1322, and was succeeded by his son George Terter II.\n\nBy his first wife Euphrosyne (Efrosina), Theodore Svetoslav had one son, George Terter II, who succeeded as emperor of Bulgaria from 1322 to 1323. It is not known if he had children by his second wife Theodora Palaiologina, daughter of Emperor Michael IX Palaiologos.\n\nTerter Peak on Greenwich Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named for Tsar Theodore Svetoslav of Bulgaria.\n\nTheodore Svetoslav's seal is depicted on the reverse of the Bulgarian 2 levs banknote, issued in 1999 and 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096900", "title": "George II of Bulgaria", "text": "George II of Bulgaria\n\nGeorge Terter II () reigned as tsar of Bulgaria between 1322 and 1323. The exact date of his birth is unknown, but he was born not long before 1307.\n\nGeorge Terter II was the son of Theodore Svetoslav and Euphrosyne, and was named after his paternal grandfather George Terter I. It is possible that he was associated as co-emperor by his father in 1321, but the sources are unclear. After his father's death in 1322, he became actively involved in the civil war in the Byzantine Empire, in which the throne was being contested between Andronikos II Palaiologos and his grandson Andronikos III Palaiologos. Taking advantage of the situation, George Terter II invaded Byzantine Thrace and, encountering little, if any, resistance, conquered the major city of Philippopolis (Plovdiv) and part of the surrounding area in 1322. A Bulgarian garrison was installed under the command of a general named Ivan the Russian, and a court scribe praised George Terter II as a \"possessor of the Bulgarian and the Greek sceptre\". A new campaign later the same year brought the subjugation of several fortresses around Adrianople, but the Bulgarians were now turned back and defeated by Andronikos III. The Byzantine emperor was preparing for an invasion of Bulgaria, when he heard the news that George Terter II had died, apparently of natural causes.\n\nGeorge Terter II died as a young man and did not have any known offspring. He was succeeded by his distant cousin Michael Asen III, now commonly called Michael Shishman.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096904", "title": "Paul Capell, 11th Earl of Essex", "text": "Paul Capell, 11th Earl of Essex\n\nFrederick Paul de Vere Capell, 11th Earl of Essex (born 29 May 1944) is the current Earl of Essex. He succeeded his father Robert Capell, 10th Earl of Essex, in 2005.\n\nBorn to Robert Capell and his wife Doris, Lord Essex began his life as Frederick Paul de Vere Capell. His father was a distant cousin to the 9th Earl of Essex.\n\nWhen his father proved that he was the heir to the earldom in 1989, Paul became entitled to call himself \"Viscount Malden\". However, few people at Skerton County Primary School in Lancashire, where he was deputy headmaster, knew of his aristocratic status.\n\nLord Essex is unmarried at age . If he dies without a legitimate son, the earldom will pass to William Jennings Capell, his fourth cousin once removed. William's father, Bladen Horace, was a strong claimant to the heirship of the earldom, before the 10th Earl proved his superior claim.\n\n\nThis chart shows the relation between Lord Essex, his recent predecessors, and William Capell.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096914", "title": "Hush harbor", "text": "Hush harbor\n\nDuring antebellum America, a hush harbor was a place where slaves would gather in secret to practice religious traditions.\n\nReligion grew to become a highly respected part of slave life. It offered the enslaved hope and reassurance. Slaves were forced to organize and conduct these meetings in secret because the idea of slaves assembling without supervision left the owners in fear. The meetings were held after dark, once field and house chores were completed, and carried on late into the night.\n\nChristianity was the prominent religion of the African Slaves after being transported to the Americas. After being exposed to Christian ideas, the slaves began to understand them more. Slaves discovered promising stories and passages in the Bible that offered hope. The story of Jesus Christ suffering on the cross drew attention because of the similar, harsh treatment they both received.\n\nThe hush harbors served as the location where slaves could combine their African religious traditions with Christianity. It was safe to freely blend the components of each religion in these meetings. The slaves could let go of all their hardships and express their emotions. Here is where Negro spirituals originated. The songs created by slaves were known to contain a double meaning, revealing the ideas of religious salvation and freedom from slavery. The meetings would also include practices such as dance. African shouts and rhythms were also included.\n\nSlaves would suffer punishments had they been caught in a hush harbor meeting. Slave owners were confident that they would compare treatment, working conditions, and punishments, leaving them worried about revolts and riots. African American churches taught that all people were equal in God's eyes. Instead the African American church focused on the message of equality and hopes for a better future.\n"}
{"id": "2096919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096919", "title": "Constantine Bodin", "text": "Constantine Bodin\n\nConstantine Bodin (Bulgarian and , \"Konstantin Bodin\"; 1072–1101) was the ruler of Duklja, from 1081 to 1101, succeeding his father, Mihailo Vojislavljević ( 1050–1081). Born in peaceful times, when the Southern Slavs were subjects of the Byzantine Empire, his father was in 1072 approached by Bulgarian nobility, who sought aid in their revolt against the Byzantines; Mihailo sent them Bodin, who was crowned Bulgarian tsar under the name Petar III (, \"Petŭr III\") joined the short-lived revolt, being captured the following year after initial success. He was freed in 1078, and upon the death of his father in 1081 he succeeded to the throne of Dioclea. Having renewed his acknowledgement of Byzantine overlordship, he soon sided with their enemies, the Normans, which resulted in a Byzantine invasion and his capture. Although he quickly had himself freed, his reputation and influence waned. He was pushed aside into by one of his governors, Vukan, who continued the struggle against the Byzantines.\n\nBodin was the son of Mihailo, the ˝King of the Slavs˝, who held the Byzantine title of \"protospatharios\". His mother was the niece of Byzantine Emperor Constantine IX Monomachos (r. 1042–1055).\n\nHis father was more of a politician and statesman than warrior. Energetic and ambitious, Bodin was brought up in a period when the state enjoyed rare peace for two decades, although this did not interfere with his development of warrior qualities and abilities. He participated in the large revolt that broke out in Pomoravlje and Povardarje against the Byzantines in 1072–73.\n\nMihailo was approached by Bulgarian nobles (\"proechontes\") led by Georgi Voyteh, who asked for a son whom they could crown as their emperor and end Byzantine \"oppression\". In the fall of 1072, Mihailo obliged and sent Bodin with 300 troops to Prizren, where they met with Georgi Voiteh, the exarch of Skopje, and other magnates. They proclaimed him emperor of the Bulgarians and renamed him Petar. It is theorized that Bodin was the great-grandson of Samuel of Bulgaria. Bodin was thus put at the command of the Bulgarian Slavs against the Byzantines (Greeks). The revolt, fought by the \"Slavic people\" (according to Bryennios) broke out in the theme of Bulgaria. It is possible that it was aided by the Hungarians. The aid to Georgi Voiteh moved Mihailo away from the Byzantines.\n\nIn the meantime, the Byzantine \"doux\" of Skopje, Nikephoros Karantenos, marched towards Prizren with an army, but was replaced prior to the battle with Damian Dalassenos, who destroyed the morale of the army that would fight the Serbian contingent. The Serb army in Kosovo was split into two groups that would organize the uprising: the first was led by Bodin and operated in Pomoravlje, heading for Niš, while his second-in-command Vojvoda Petrilo operated in Povardarje, heading for Kastoria via Ohrid. Petrilo headed south and took Ohrid without a battle, and then Devol, but suffered a defeat at Kastoria, where Byzantine Slavic Boris David commanded a Bulgarian contingent and defeated Petrilo, sending him fleeing \"through inaccessible mountains\". The troops of Bodin took Niš and started plundering the region, abusing his 'subjects', which was seen by Voiteh as Bodin being greedier than Michael VII, and when the Byzantines under Saronites marched onto Skopje, Bodin showed no concern, making Voiteh surrender without resistance. A Byzantine garrison was installed at Skopje, and Saronites headed for Niš. In order to prevent the retreat to Zeta being cut off, Bodin also retreated from Niš, but clashed with the Byzantines in Kosovo, where he was defeated and captured. Despite some initial success Bodin was captured at Pauni in southern Kosovo, and then sent to Constantinople, then Antioch, where he spent several years. Voiteh died \"en route\".\n\nWhen Mihailo heard of the capture of his son, he sent his son-in-law and former captive, the Byzantine general Longibardopoulos, to rescue Bodin, but instead, Longibardopoulos upon arriving defected to the Byzantines. When unrest began in Antioch, Mihailo paid some Venetian merchants who freed Bodin and took him home. Upon his return, it seems, Bodin became a co-ruler of his father. \n\nSoon after his return, the Byzantines attacked, forcing Mihailo and Bodin to temporarily acknowledge Byzantine overlordship. When, in 1081, the Normans crossed from Italy and attacked the Byzantines and besieged Dyrrhachion, Emperor Alexios I Komnenos went against them and called Bodin for aid. Bodin arrived with a Serb detachment; however, during the Battle of Dyrrhachion (18 October), he stayed aside with his army, intending to await the outcome of the battle. When the Byzantines were defeated and started to flee, Bodin retreated with his army.\n\nAfter the death of King Mihailo, Bodin inherited the Dukljan throne. By this time Bodin was a mature man with a turbulent background and great experiences, also having been a co-ruler of his father for several years.\n\nBodin's disengagement at Dyrrhachion outraged Constantinople, relations further deteriorating when Bodin began fully supporting the Normans. The Byzantines, after dealing with the Normans, attacked Bodin, defeated him and once again had him imprisoned. He quickly had himself freed, but after this his reputation began to fall and influence to wane.\nThe focus of the Serbian national and state life were then transmitted in the 1090s to the mountains of Kopaonik, where his subject, \"župan\" (count) Vukan, played the most important role in the fight of the Serbs against the Byzantine Empire. Bodin was pushed to the background, contributed by the dynastic conflicts and his struggle against the Republic of Ragusa, which brought him only little fame and success. Thus, Bodin, who had started his career with much enthusiasm and energy, ended his life and reign without power and reputation.\n\nBy 1085, he and his brothers had suppressed a revolt by their cousins, the sons of Mihailo's brother Radoslav in the \"župa\" of Zeta, and Bodin then ruled unchallenged. In spite of his earlier opposition to the Byzantine Empire, Bodin at first supported the Byzantines against the attack of Robert Guiscard and his Normans on Durazzo in 1081, but then stood idle, allowing the Normans to take the city.\n\nAt about this time, Bodin married Jaquinta, the daughter of Argyritzos, a nobleman from Bari forced into exile in Duklja. Constantine Bodin's relations with the west included his support for Pope Urban II in 1089, which secured him a major concession, the upgrading of his bishop of Bar to the rank of an archbishop. Despite Bodin's submission to Rome, the Catholic Church only gained ground in coastal areas of his realm, while the inland parts remained under Constantinople.\n\nConstantine Bodin attempted to maintain the enlarged realm left him by his father. To do so, he campaigned in Bosnia and Rascia, installing his relative Stephen as \"ban\" in Bosnia and his nephews Vukan and Marko as \"župans\" in Rascia. The two brothers were sons of Constantine Bodin's half-brother Petrislav, who had governed Raška in 1060–1074. However, after the death of Robert Guiscard in 1085, Constantine Bodin was faced by the hostility of the Byzantine Empire, which recovered Durazzo and prepared to punish the king of Duklja for siding with the Normans.\n\nThe Byzantine campaign against Duklja is dated between 1089 and 1091 and may have succeeded in taking Bodin captive for the second time. Although the kingdom survived, outlying territories including Bosnia, Rascia, and Hum seceded under their own governors. Exactly what happened in Duklja is unknown, and there may have been a civil war during Bodin's possible captivity. Queen Jaquinta ruthlessly persecuted possible claimants to the throne, including Bodin's cousin Branislav and his family. After a number of these persons were killed or exiled by Bodin and his wife, the church managed to keep the impending blood feud from sparking off a full-blown civil war.\n\nIn the winter of 1096–97 the Crusaders under Raymond of Toulouse met Bodin at Scutari, the Crusaders were hospitably received and entertained.\n\nOn Constantine Bodin's death in 1101 or possibly 1108, Duklja was engulfed in the conflict caused by the dynastic strife that had begun to develop during his reign.\n\n\nConstantine Bodin married Jaquinta (Jakvinta), the daughter of the Norman governor of Bari. They had several children, among whom were sons:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096924", "title": "Arcadia, Nova Scotia", "text": "Arcadia, Nova Scotia\n\nArcadia is a small community in Nova Scotia, Canada, adjacent to the Town of Yarmouth. It was originally known as \"Upper Chebogue\" from its location on the upper reaches of the tidal Chebogue River. The name was changed to Arcadia in 1863. While the word itself may be traced back to the Greek name for a land of peace and contentment (see Arcadia (utopia)), the place name was suggested by the ship \"Arcadia\" built and launched there in 1817.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096931", "title": "Phenyltoloxamine", "text": "Phenyltoloxamine\n\nPhenyltoloxamine is an antihistamine with sedative and analgesic effects. It is available in combination with other drugs such as paracetamol (acetominophen).\n\nPhenyltoloxamine is widely used in preparations as an enhancing agent for some analgesics and antitussives (acetaminophen, dihydrocodeine, codeine, hydrocodone). It is widely used in certain parts of the world as cough suppressant usually with codeine, and sometimes by itself or in addition to dextromethorphan as it, like diphenhydramine, possesses antitussive action of its own and is particularly useful in semi-productive coughs because of its moderate drying action. \n\nPhenyltoloxamine has analgesic and anti-spasmodic properties of its own and is used in combination with paracetamol, aspirin and other salicylates and other drugs in proprietary preparations available over the counter for backache, muscle strains and similar conditions. In this respect, it is similar to a closely related antihistamine, orphenadrine, and both drugs are very closely related to diphenhydramine and to doxylamine, the latter of which is the active ingredient in NyQuil and many other cough preparations.\n\nPhenyltoloxamine is one of the more effective potentiators of codeine and derivatives such as ethylmorphine, dihydrocodeine, oxycodone, nicocodeine, hydrocodone and similar drugs like tramadol and propoxyphene for all indications, pain relief and cough suppression in particular.\n\nPhenyltoloxamine, like diphenhydramine and doxylamine, is an effective non-narcotic anti-tussive on its own but tends to be effective only for productive coughs as the anticholinergic action will exacerbate dry, unproductive coughs, so it is often combined with dextromethorphan, codeine, ethylmorphine, dihydrocodeine, or hydrocodone in cough suppressants both over the counter and prescription.\n\nIt is also used to discourage abuse in certain opiate analgesics due to its unpleasant side effects at high doses. While therapeutic doses of phenyltoloxamine can generate mild to moderate euphoria as can many of its close chemical relatives, much higher doses have a side effect profile similar to that of atropine, which is also used in this fashion for tablets of diphenoxylate and morphine for oral administration.\n\nCommon adverse effects are those associated with most anticholinergics, with effects being more pronounced in children and the elderly.\n\nThough it is rare in several Western countries, phenyltoloxamine is widely used on the global scale, particularly in the developing world.\n\nIn the past it was not a controlled substance. It was taken off the market but is available OTC again in the US by some pharmaceutical companies. Some preparations contain opiates such as codeine or hydrocodone and are controlled. When used in preparations with acetaminophen it is generally over the counter.\n\nPhenyltoloxamine combinations are sold under wide variety of preparations, brand names and dosages around the world:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096942", "title": "Sir Andrew Aguecheek", "text": "Sir Andrew Aguecheek\n\nSir Andrew Aguecheek (also spelled Ague-cheek) is a comic character in William Shakespeare's play \"Twelfth Night, or What You Will\". One of the minor characters, Sir Andrew is a stereotypical fool, who is goaded into unwisely duelling with Cesario and who is slowly having his money pilfered by Sir Toby Belch. He is dim-witted, vain and clownish. His role in the play not only provides comedy through his pathetic situation and his long speech, but also by his distinct, long-faced appearance and garish dress sense. The role has been a favourite for noted actors such as Alec Guinness, Christopher Plummer, Paul Scofield and Roger Rees.\n\nSir Andrew first appears in the third scene of Act I, as the so-called friend of Sir Toby Belch. Sir Andrew is a guest at the home of Sir Toby's niece Lady Olivia, where Sir Toby, a drunkard and glutton, resides. Although we are not made aware of Sir Andrew's family or connections, it is said that his annual income is 3,000 ducats, a significant amount and roughly equal to that of a skilled craftsman of the period, leading us to assume that he is a gentleman of some leisure. Ineptly, Sir Andrew attempts to court Olivia, and her rejection of him, in favour of dashing Cesario, prompts Sir Andrew to challenge Cesario to a duel. His slow-witted nature allows Sir Toby perfect opportunity to take advantage of him, openly admitting that by misusing Sir Andrew's generosity and gullibility, he has milked him for approximately two-thirds of his stated income. Sir Andrew fancies himself a great dancer and swordsman, and the scenes where he ineptly engages in these activities are points of physical comedy in the play. Sir Andrew's age is not made clear, but it is assumed that he is a number of years younger than Sir Toby.\n\nSir Andrew and Malvolio are probably the only characters whose situation at the end of the play is not as favourable as in the beginning. Amongst three happy couples and a humiliated Malvolio in the final scene, Sir Andrew has already made his closing exit, following Sir Toby's open insults toward him. Friendless and deep in debt, this ending echoes one of Sir Andrew's better known lines, from the third scene of the second act: \"I was adored once too.\" The negative outcome for Sir Andrew, combined with his having been the subject of jokes and Sir Toby's greed, is a strain of melancholy in an otherwise comical play.\n\nAs one of the central supporting roles in \"Twelfth Night\", Sir Andrew's character speaks a total of 88 lines and appears in seven of the eighteen scenes.\n\nThe Elizabethan actor John Sinklo has been associated with the role of Sir Andrew. Actors who have distinguished themselves in the role of Sir Andrew include Alec Guinness, Paul Scofield, Juan Garibay, Christopher Plummer and Richard E. Grant. Mr Grant excelled in Trevor Nunn's movie adaptation of \"\": dancing dreadfully in front of Mel Smith's Sir Toby, getting his sword caught in a branch of a tree and being kicked in the groin during his duel with \"Cesario\" (Imogen Stubbs). When Maria (Imelda Staunton) tricks Malvolio (Nigel Hawthorne) into wearing yellow stockings, she reveals to her fellow conspirators that \"'tis a colour [my lady Olivia] abhors\". They then turn to Sir Andrew who is wearing a yellow waistcoat, tie and stockings. At the end however, he is allowed some dignity by kissing the hand of Olivia (Helena Bonham Carter) before leaving her estate, his head held high.\n\n\n'Sir Andrew Aguecheek' is the first part of Hans Werner Henze's \"Second Sonata on Shakespearean Characters\" for guitar, known as \"Royal Winter Music\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2096950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096950", "title": "Sophie Crumb", "text": "Sophie Crumb\n\nSophia Violet \"Sophie\" Crumb (born September 27, 1981) is an American-French comics artist. She is the daughter of underground comix artists Robert Crumb and Aline Kominsky-Crumb.\n\nCrumb was born in Woodland, California, US and lived in the nearby farming town of Winters with her parents until she was nine years old. In 1991, she relocated with her family to Sauve, a village in the south of France. Her parents reported that they wanted to remove her from the political conservatives and Christian fundamentalists of the United States. In a 2010 interview, Sophie told \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" that her mother was afraid Sophie would \"turn into a Valley girl\".\n\nAfter this relocation Terry Zwigoff released \"Crumb\" (1994), a documentary film about her father and their family. Zwigoff later commissioned Sophie to prepare some original drawings for inclusion in his 2001 comedy-drama, \"Ghost World\", an adaptation of Daniel Clowes' comics serial of the same name.\n\nAfter completing her secondary education in France, Crumb studied acrobatics and clowning at a French circus school. While living in Brooklyn in the mid-2000s she sold her comics on the street and apprenticed herself to a tattoo artist. At another stage she earned a living by teaching English as a foreign language.\n\nShe lives in the south of France with her husband (a construction worker) and their son, Eli, who was born in 2009.\n\nWhen she was a child, Crumb's parents published some of her drawings in their comics anthology, \"Weirdo\"; she later contributed to their comic book series \"Dirty Laundry Comics\", originally published from 1977 to 1992.\n\nCrumb illustrated a sketchbook for the American film \"Ghost World\" (2001). Her drawings were meant to reflect the personality and inner life of Enid (Thora Birch), the film's protagonist.\n\nIn 2002, Fantagraphics Books and Oog & Blik published Crumb's first comic book, \"Belly Button\", followed by \"Belly Button Comix #2\" in 2004. She contributed multiple pieces to installments of \"Mome\" published between 2005 and 2008.\n\nHer development as a graphic artist are documented in \"Sophie Crumb: Evolution of a Crazy Artist\" (W.W. Norton 2010). Her debut solo show, which featured more than 20 drawings and giclée prints, coincided with the book's publication. The show ran from 4 November to 30 December 2010 at DCKT Contemporary, Dennis Christie and Ken Tyburski's contemporary art gallery in New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096952", "title": "Port Maitland, Nova Scotia", "text": "Port Maitland, Nova Scotia\n\nPort Maitland (population: 503) is a small community in Yarmouth County, Nova Scotia, Canada. It is near the town of Yarmouth, and very near to the community of Beaver River. Salmon River also very nearby, lies within Digby County. The community covers 81.46 km.\n\nPort Maitland, was heavily influenced by the Henry Alline's new light Baptist movement of the late 18th century. Both Port Maitland and Beaver River tend to be Baptist in confession and English in ethnic origin. The community is, however, only a short distance away from the primarily Acadian-French speaking, Catholic municipality of Clare in Digby County, as well as from such historically black communities as Hectanooga. The Calvinist Baptist Cemetery, one of three old cemeteries overseen by the Oldstones Society, is located at the North boundary of the town as one enters Beaver River. These cemeteries are the resting place of many of the community's founding families, many of whom are descendants of the earliest settlers in Canada and the USA.\n\nAlong the Evangeline trail, which is also Route 1, there are three recently restored cemeteries now maintained by the Old Stones - Old Beaver River and Port Maitland Cemeteries Preservation Society.\n\nTwin Lake Properties – Residential, High income properties. \n\nThere is a provincial park on Port Maitland Beach, which is easily reached from the community. The park features a large sandy beach, several shaded picnic tables and bathroom facilities. Lifeguards are on duty. It is one of the few remaining beaches in Nova Scotia that allows you to walk your dog on a leash. There is a sign by the beach with a picture of a dog on a leash.\n"}
{"id": "2096956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096956", "title": "Ivan Alexander of Bulgaria", "text": "Ivan Alexander of Bulgaria\n\nIvan Alexander (, transliterated \"Ivan Aleksandǎr\", ; original spelling: ), also sometimes Anglicized as John Alexander, ruled as Emperor (\"Tsar\") of Bulgaria from 1331 to 1371, during the Second Bulgarian Empire. The date of his birth is unknown. He died on 17 February 1371. The long reign of Ivan Alexander is considered a transitional period in Bulgarian medieval history. Ivan Alexander began his rule by dealing with internal problems and external threats from Bulgaria's neighbours, the Byzantine Empire and Serbia, as well as leading his empire into a period of economic recovery and cultural and religious renaissance.\n\nHowever, the emperor was later unable to cope with the mounting incursions of Ottoman forces, Hungarian invasions from the northwest and the Black Death. In an ill-fated attempt to combat these problems, he divided the country between his two sons, thus forcing it to face the imminent Ottoman conquest weakened and divided.\n\nIvan Alexander was the son of the \"despotēs\" Sracimir of Kran by Petrica, a sister of Michael Asen III of Bulgaria. Therefore, Ivan Alexander was a nephew of Michael Asen III. Paternally, Ivan Alexander descended from the Asen dynasty. By 1330 Ivan Alexander was himself a \"despotēs\" and governed the city of Lovech. Together with his father and his father-in-law Basarab of Wallachia, Ivan Alexander fought in the Battle of Velbazhd against the Serbs at modern-day Kyustendil in 1330, in which Bulgaria suffered defeat. The defeat, combined with the worsening relations with the Byzantine Empire, precipitated an internal crisis, which was exacerbated by an invasion of the Byzantines. A coup d'état drove Ivan Stefan out of the capital Tarnovo in 1331, and the conspirators placed Ivan Alexander on the throne.\n\nThe new ruler set about consolidating his position by regaining territories recently lost to the Byzantine Empire. In 1331 Ivan Alexander campaigned around Adrianople and reconquered northeastern Thrace. Meanwhile, Stefan Uroš IV Dušan deposed his father Stefan Uroš III Dečanski and became Serbian king in 1331. This helped normalize the previously tense relations between the two countries. Ivan Alexander and Stefan Uroš IV Dušan concluded an alliance, which was cemented by the marriage of the Serbian king to Helena of Bulgaria, a sister of Ivan Alexander, on Easter 1332.\n\nAt about the same time, Belaur, a brother of Michael Asen III, rebelled in Vidin, probably in support of his deposed nephew Ivan Stefan's claim to the throne. The advance of the Byzantine Emperor Andronikos III Palaiologos against Bulgaria in the summer of 1332 protracted military operations against the rebels. The Byzantines overran Bulgarian-controlled northeastern Thrace, but Ivan Alexander rushed southward with a small army and swiftly caught up with Andronikos III at Rusokastro.\n\nAfter giving the impression that he wished to negotiate, Ivan Alexander, reinforced by Mongol cavalry, overwhelmed the smaller but better organized Byzantine army in the Battle of Rusokastro. The contested cities surrendered to Ivan Alexander, while Andronikos III sought refuge within the walls of Rusokastro. The war ended with Ivan Alexander meeting Andronikos and agreeing a peace based on the \"status quo\". To seal the alliance, he betrothed his eldest son, Michael Asen IV, to Andronikos's daughter Maria (Eirene), the marriage eventually taking place in 1339. The Bulgarian emperor was now free to turn his attentions to Belaur, but it was not until 1336 or 1337 that the rebellion in the northwest was put down.\n\nIn about 1332 Ivan Alexander had crowned his eldest son Michael Asen IV co-emperor, perhaps to safeguard possession of the throne by his own family. He followed up this traditional association with the coronation of his younger sons Ivan Sracimir and Ivan Asen IV in 1337. Ivan Alexander may have intended the creation of two younger co-emperors to establish immediate control over important cities and regions, as Ivan Sracimir was eventually based in Vidin, and Ivan Asen IV perhaps in Preslav. Nevertheless, this was a marked departure from Byzantine practice, in which younger sons of the sovereign were made \"despotēs\", whether they were charged with a territorial administration or not.\n\nIn the early 1340s relations with the Byzantine Empire temporarily deteriorated. Ivan Alexander demanded the extradition of his cousin Šišman, one of the sons of Michael Asen III, threatening the Byzantine government with war. Ivan Alexander's show of force backfired, as the Byzantines managed to see through his intentions and sent against him the fleet of their ally, the Turkish emir of Smyrna Umur Beg. Landing in the Danube Delta, they pillaged the countryside and attacked nearby Bulgarian cities. Forced to restrain his demands, Ivan Alexander invaded the Byzantine Empire again at the end of 1341, claiming that he was summoned by the people of Adrianople. However, Ivan Alexander's troops were defeated twice by Turkish allies of the Byzantines near the city.\n\nIn 1341–1347 the Byzantine Empire was plunged into a protracted civil war between the regency for Emperor John V Palaiologos under Anna of Savoy and his intended guardian John VI Kantakouzenos. The neighbours of the Byzantines took advantage of the civil war, and while Stefan Uroš IV Dušan of Serbia sided with John VI Kantakouzenos, Ivan Alexander backed John V Palaiologos and his regency. Although the two Balkan rulers picked opposite sides in the Byzantine civil war, they maintained their alliance with each other. As the price for Ivan Alexander's support, the regency for John V Palaiologos ceded him the city of Philippopolis (Plovdiv) and nine important fortresses in the Rhodope Mountains in 1344. This peaceful turnover constituted the last major success of Ivan Alexander's foreign policy.\n\nDuring the same period, the Serbian king took advantage of the Byzantine civil war to take possession of what is now Macedonia, and of most of Albania and northern Greece. In 1345 he began to call himself \"Emperor of Serbs and Greeks\", and in 1346 he was crowned as such by the newly created Serbian Patriarch. These actions, which the Byzantines received with indignation, appear to have been supported by Bulgaria, as the Patriarch of Bulgaria Simeon had participated in both the creation of a Serbian Patriarchate of Peć and the imperial coronation of Stefan Uroš IV Dušan.\n\nBy the second half of the 1340s, little remained of Ivan Alexander's initial successes. John VI Kantakouzenos' Turkish allies pillaged parts of Bulgarian Thrace in 1346, 1347, 1349, 1352 and 1354, to which were added the ravages of the Black Death. The Bulgarians' attempts to repel the invaders met with repeated failure, and Ivan Alexander's third son and co-emperor, Ivan Asen IV, was killed in battle against the Turks in 1349, as was his older brother Michael Asen IV in 1355 or a little earlier.\n\nBy 1351 the Byzantine civil war was over, and John VI Kantakouzenos had realized the threat posed by the Ottomans to the Balkan Peninsula. He appealed to the rulers of Serbia and Bulgaria for a united effort against the Turks and asked Ivan Alexander for money to construct warships, but his appeals fell on deaf ears as his neighbours distrusted his intentions. A new attempt for cooperation between Bulgaria and the Byzantine Empire followed in 1355, after John VI Kantakouzenos had been forced to abdicate and John V Palaiologos had been established as supreme emperor. To cement the treaty, Ivan Alexander's daughter Keraca Marija was married off to the future Byzantine Emperor Andronikos IV Palaiologos, but the alliance failed to produce concrete results.\n\nAt home Ivan Alexander compromised the internal stability of his realm by divorcing his first wife Theodora of Wallachia (in about 1349) and marrying a converted Jew, also named Theodora. The new marriage produced new sons, whom Ivan Alexander proceeded to crown co-emperors, Ivan Šišman in about 1356 and Ivan Asen V by 1359. Ivan Alexander's last surviving son from his first marriage, the co-emperor Ivan Sracimir, became effectively independent around 1356; and Ivan Alexander's control over other powerful vassals, such as the rulers of Wallachia and Dobruja, who pursued their own foreign policies, was hardly stronger.\n\nFrom the middle of the 14th century, Bulgaria fell prey to the aspirations of the Angevin king Louis I of Hungary, who annexed Moldavia in 1352 and established a vassal principality there, before conquering Vidin in 1365, and taking Ivan Sratsimir and his family into captivity.\n\nIn the meantime Bulgarians and Byzantines had clashed again in 1364. In 1366, when Emperor John V Palaiologos was returning from his trip to the west, the Bulgarians refused to let him pass through Bulgaria. This stance backfired, as another Byzantine ally, Count Amadeus VI of Savoy, leading the Savoyard crusade, captured several Bulgarian maritime cities in retaliation, including Ankhialos (Pomorie) and Mesembria (Nesebǎr), though he failed to take Varna. Outmanoeuvred, Ivan Alexander was forced to make peace.\n\nThe captured cities were turned over to the Byzantine Empire, while Emperor John V Palaiologos paid the sum of 180,000 florins to Ivan Alexander. The Bulgarian emperor used this sum and territorial concessions to induce his at least \"de jure\" vassals Dobrotica of Dobruja and Vladislav I of Wallachia to reconquer Vidin from the Hungarians. The war was successful, and Ivan Sracimir was reinstalled in Vidin in 1369, although the Hungarian king forced him to acknowledge his overlordship.\n\nThe relatively successful resolution of the crisis in the northwest did nothing to help recover the losses in the southeast. To make matters worse, in 1369 (the date is disputed), the Ottoman Turks under Murad I conquered Adrianople (in 1363) and made it the effective capital of their expanding state. At the same time, they also captured the Bulgarian cities of Philippopolis and Boruj (Stara Zagora). As Bulgaria and the Serbian princes in Macedonia prepared for united action against the Turks, Ivan Alexander died on February 17, 1371. He was succeeded by his sons Ivan Sracimir in Vidin and Ivan Šišman in Tǎrnovo, while the rulers of Dobruja and Wallachia achieved further independence.\n\nDuring Ivan Alexander's rule, the Second Bulgarian Empire entered a period of cultural renaissance, which is sometimes referred to as the \"Second Golden Age of Bulgarian culture\", the original one being the rule of Simeon the Great. A large number of Bulgarian monasteries and churches were constructed or renovated on the order of Ivan Alexander. Mural portraits of him as a donor can be seen in the Bachkovo Monastery's ossuary and in the Rock-hewn Churches of Ivanovo. Donor's deeds of Ivan Alexander prove that the monasteries of the Holy Mother of God Eleoussa and St Nicholas in Nesebǎr were reconstructed during that period, as was the St Nicholas monastery near Pernik, according to a Hilandar monastery deed. In addition, the tsar also initiated the construction of the Dragalevci and Kilifarevo monasteries.\n\nLiterary activity also flourished during the reign of Ivan Alexander. Several important literary works were created in the period, such as the Middle Bulgarian translation of the Manasses Chronicle (1344–1345), currently preserved in the Vatican Secret Archives in Rome, the richly illustrated Tetraevangelia of Ivan Alexander (1355–1356), now exhibited in the British Library, the Tomić Psalter (1360), today in Moscow, and the Sofia Psalter (1337).\n\nIvan Alexander's rule was also marked by efforts to strengthen the position of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church by pursuing heretics and Jews. He organized two anti-heretical church councils, in 1350 and 1359–1360, that condemned various sects such as the Bogomils, the Adamites and the Judaizers.\n\nThe spiritual practice of hesychasm, a form of incantatory prayer, deeply influenced certain areas of the Eastern Orthodox world of the 14th century. A notable Bulgarian representative of the movement during Ivan Alexander's reign was Theodosius of Tǎrnovo.\n\nDuring this time, the Bulgarian Empire had trade relations with the Mediterranean maritime powers Venice, Genoa and Ragusa. In 1353, Ivan Alexander issued a charter allowing Venetian merchants to buy and sell goods throughout Bulgaria after Doge Andrea Dandolo assured him they would observe the prior treaties between the two countries.\n\nIn modern times, the rule of Ivan Alexander inspired Bulgarian national writer Ivan Vazov to write the novelette \"Ivan-Aleksandǎr\" and the drama \"Kǎm propast\" (\"Towards an Abyss\"), in both of which the tsar is the main character.\n\nA piece of a garment signed by Ivan Alexander and interwoven with gold was discovered in a noble's grave near Pirot in the 1970s; today it is preserved in the National Museum of Serbia in Belgrade. It is the first find of its kind, demonstrating a medieval tradition attested in writing according to which Orthodox rulers would present their most eminent dignitaries with a piece of a garment they had worn.\n\nIvan Alexander Point on Nelson Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named after Ivan Alexander of Bulgaria.\n\nBy his first wife Theodora of Wallachia (nun Teofana), a daughter of Basarab of Wallachia, Ivan Alexander had several children, including Ivan Sracimir, who ruled as emperor of Bulgaria in Vidin 1356–1397, associated emperors Michael Asen IV (co-ruled c. 1332–1354/5) and Ivan Asen IV (co-ruled 1337–1349).\n\nBy his second wife Sarah-Theodora, Ivan Alexander had several other children, which included Keraca Marija, who married the Byzantine Emperor Andronikos IV Palaiologos, Ivan Šišman, who succeeded as emperor of Bulgaria in Tǎrnovo 1371–1395, Ivan Asen V, associated as emperor of Bulgaria by 1359–1388?, a daughter called Thamar (Kera Tamara), who was married first to the \"despotēs\" Constantine (Konstantin), and then to Sultan Murad I of the Ottoman Empire, as well as two daughters named Desislava and Vasilisa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096959", "title": "Smilets of Bulgaria", "text": "Smilets of Bulgaria\n\nSmilets () reigned as tsar of Bulgaria from 1292 to 1298. The date of his birth is unknown.\n\nAlthough Smilec is credited with being descended \"from the noblest family of the Bulgarians\", his antecedents are completely unknown. Judging by the landholdings of his brothers Radoslav and Vojsil, the family held extensive lands between the Balkan mountains and Sredna Gora.\n\nBefore ascending the throne replacing George Terter I in 1292, Smilec had married an unnamed Byzantine princess, the daughter of the \"sebastokratōr\" Constantine Palaiologos, a half-brother of Emperor Michael VIII Palaiologos. Apart from the information that Smilec became emperor of Bulgaria according to the wishes of Nogai Khan, we know nothing of the circumstances of Smilec's accession. He was crowned by Patriarch Joachim III. Joachim III was executed for treason in 1300 by emperor Theodore Svetoslav, George Terter I's son, and historian John Van Antwerp Fine Jr. theorizes that the alleged treachery might be linked to the obscure period when Smilets overthrew George Terter I.\n\nThe reign of Smilec has been considered the height of Mongol overlordship in Bulgaria. Nevertheless, Mongol raids may have continued, as in 1297 and 1298. Since these raids pillaged parts of Thrace (then entirely in Byzantine hands), perhaps Bulgaria was not one of their objectives. In fact, in spite of the usually pro-Byzantine policy of Nogai, Smilec was quickly involved in an unsuccessful war against the Byzantine Empire at the beginning of his reign.\n\nAbout 1296/1297 Smilec married his daughter Theodora to the future Serbian King Stefan Uroš III Dečanski, and this union produced the Serbian king and later emperor Stefan Uroš IV Dušan.\n\nIn 1298 Smilec disappears from the pages of history, apparently after the beginning of Chaka's invasion. He may have been killed by Chaka or died of natural causes while the enemy advanced against him. Smilec was briefly succeeded by his young son Ivan II.\n\nSmilets Point in Antarctica is named after Smilets of Bulgaria.\n\nSmilec was married to an unnamed Byzantine princess, daughter of \"sebastokratōr\" Constantine Palaiologos. She was called just \"Smiltsena\" (; \"the wife of Smilets\"). By her he had at least three children:\n\n"}
{"id": "2096966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096966", "title": "George I of Bulgaria", "text": "George I of Bulgaria\n\nGeorge Terter I (), of the Terter dynasty ruled as tsar of Bulgaria 1280–1292. The date of his birth is unknown, and he died in 1308/1309.\n\nThe reign of George Terter I represents a continuation of Bulgaria's precipitous decline during the second half of the 13th century. Although George Terter I managed to maintain himself on the throne for more than a decade (unlike his two immediate predecessors), he appears to have failed to assert himself against the centrifugal forces even in his own capital. This severely limited any possibility of engaging in grand-scale international politics or even standing up to foreign aggression and Mongol raids. During the chaotic years preceding George Terter I's accession Bulgaria had lost all of Thrace to the Byzantine Empire, and under his reign its remaining possessions in Macedonia were divided between the Serbians and the Byzantines in 1282–1284.\n\nThe antecedents of George Terter I are unclear, but the Byzantine sources testify that he was of Bulgarian and Cuman descent, something corroborated by his double name, which recalls the name of the Cuman clan Terteroba. George Terter I had at least one brother, named Aldimir (Eltimir), who was made a \"despotēs\" by either his older brother or by the regency for Ivan II.\n\nWhen Ivan Asen III became emperor at Tărnovo in 1279 during the Uprising of Ivaylo, he sought to strengthen his position by allying himself with George Terter. The latter divorced his first wife Maria, who was sent together with their son Theodore Svetoslav as a hostage to the Byzantine Empire, to marry Maria (Kira Maria), the sister of Ivan Asen III. George Terter was accordingly made a \"despotēs\", the highest rank in the Byzantino-Bulgarian court hierarchy.\n\nThe continued success of Ivaylo against Byzantine reinforcements led Ivan Asen III to flee the capital and escape to the Byzantine Empire, while George Terter I seized power as emperor in 1280. With the threat from Ivaylo and Ivan Asen III removed, George Terter I made an alliance with King Charles I of Sicily, with Stefan Dragutin of Serbia, and with Thessaly against Michael VIII Palaiologos of the Byzantine Empire in 1281. The alliance failed as Charles was distracted by the Sicilian Vespers and the secession of Sicily in 1282, while Bulgaria was ravaged by the Mongols of the Golden Horde under Nogai Khan. Seeking Serbian support, George Terter I engaged his daughter Anna to the Serbian king Stefan Uroš II Milutin in 1284.\n\nSince the death of the Byzantine Emperor Michael VIII Palaiologos in 1282, George Terter I re-opened negotiations with the Byzantine Empire and sought the return of his first wife. This was eventually accomplished by treaty, and the two Marias exchanged places as empress and hostage. Theodore Svetoslav also returned to Bulgaria after a successful mission of Patriarch Joachim III and was made co-emperor by his father, but after another Mongol invasion in 1285, he was sent off as a hostage to Nogai Khan. Theodore Svetoslav's other sister, Helena, was also sent to the Horde, where she married Nogai's son Chaka.\n\nFor unknown reasons, though possibly under Mongol pressure, George Terter I sought refuge in the Byzantine Empire in 1292. The Byzantine Emperor Andronikos II Palaiologos at first refused to receive him, perhaps fearing complications with the Mongols, and George Terter was kept waiting in wretched conditions in the vicinity of Adrianople. The former Bulgarian emperor was eventually sent to live in Anatolia. George Terter I passed the next decade of his life in obscurity. In 1301 his son Theodore Svetoslav, already emperor of Bulgaria, defeated a Byzantine army and captured thirteen high-ranking officers, whom he exchanged for his father.\n\nIn Bulgaria George Terter I was not associated in power by his son, but he was confined to luxurious life in a city chosen by his son. An inscription from a rock-cut church near Ivanovo laconically mentions the death of \"emperor Gergi\" in the year 1308/1309.\n\nGeorge Terter I was married twice. By his first wife, a Bulgarian named Maria, he had two children:\nBy his second wife, Maria (Kira Maria) of Bulgaria, sister of Ivan Asen III, George Terter had one daughter:\n\n"}
{"id": "2096979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096979", "title": "Michael Shishman of Bulgaria", "text": "Michael Shishman of Bulgaria\n\nMichael Asen III (, \"Mihail Asen III\", commonly called Michael Shishman (Михаил Шишман, \"Mihail Šišman\")), ruled as tsar of Bulgaria from 1323 to 1330. The exact year of his birth is unknown but it was between 1280 and 1292. He was the founder of the last ruling dynasty of the Second Bulgarian Empire, the Shishman dynasty. After he was crowned, however, Michael used the name Asen to emphasize his connection with the Asen dynasty, the first one to rule over the Second Empire.\n\nAn energetic and ambitious ruler, Michael Shishman led an aggressive but opportunistic and inconsistent foreign policy against the Byzantine Empire and the Kingdom of Serbia, which ended in the disastrous battle of Velbazhd which claimed his own life. He was the last medieval Bulgarian ruler who aimed at military and political hegemony of the Bulgarian Empire over the Balkans and the last one who attempted to seize Constantinople. He was succeeded by his son Ivan Stephen and later by his nephew Ivan Alexander, who reversed his policy by forming an alliance with Serbia.\n\nBorn between 1280 and 1292 Michael Shishman was the son of the despot Shishman of Vidin by an unnamed daughter of the \"sebastokrator\" Peter and Anna (Theodora), herself daughter of Ivan Asen II (r. 1218-1241) and Irene Komnene of Epirus. He was also a distant cousin of his predecessors on the Bulgarian throne, Theodore Svetoslav (r. 1300-1321) and George Terter II (r. 1321-1322). After the peace between his father and Stefan Milutin in 1292, Michael Shishman was engaged to Milutin's daughter Anna Neda and they married in 1298 or 1299.\n\nSince the middle of the 13th century, the area of Vidin had been autonomous under ineffective Bulgarian overlordship, and was ruled successively by Yakov Svetoslav (died 1276), Shishman (died between 1308 and 1313), and then Michael Shishman. Shishman and his son received the high courtly title of \"despotēs\" from their cousin Theodore Svetoslav and the latter was referred to in a contemporary Venetian source as a \"Despot of Bulgaria and Lord of Vidin\". With the death of the Serbian king Stefan Milutin, Michael Shishman was able to follow a more active policy in the Bulgarian capital Tarnovo. He soon became a leading noble in the internal affairs of the country and, on the childless death of young George Terter II in 1323, Michael Shishman was elected emperor of Bulgaria by the nobility. According to some historians he was chosen because he was a descendant of the Asen dynasty and interpret his ascencion to the throne not as the beginning of a new dynasty but rather as a continuation of the House of Asen. His half-brother, Belaur, succeeded him as despot of Vidin.\n\nThe sudden death of George Terter II had been followed by a brief period of confusion and uncertainty, which was exploited by the Byzantine emperor Andronikos III Palaiologos. The Byzantines overran northeastern Thrace and captured a number of important cities including Yambol, Lardea, Ktenia, Rusokastro, Anchialus, Sozopol and Agatopol. At the same time, a Byzantine-sponsored pretender, Voysil, brother of the former Bulgarian emperor Smilets (r. 1292-1298), ensconced himself in Krăn, controlling the valleys between the Balkan mountains and Sredna Gora from Sliven to Kopsis. At this point the newly elected Michael Shishman marched south against Andronikos III, while another Byzantine army led by Andronikos III himself was besieging Philippopolis (Plovdiv). Defended by a Bulgarian garrison led by Ivan the Russian, the siege was a failure despite the Byzantines use of a 100-soldier, five-story siege tower. While the Byzantine army was engaged at Philipopolis, Michael Shishman led his troops to north-eastern Thrace and quickly retook the lost cities thus forcing the Byzantines to pull back.\n\nAlthough Michael Shishman forced Andronikos III to retreat, the Byzantines managed to take the Philippopolis while the Bulgarians were changing garrisons. Despite the loss, Michael Shishman was able to expel Voysil and fully recover Bulgarian control over northern and northeastern Thrace in 1324 which had been taken by the Byzantines in the previous year during the interregnum. Again in 1324, the Bulgarian emperor invaded Byzantium advancing as far as Trajanopolis and Vira in the lower course of the Maritsa river. Andronikos III was unable to engage the Bulgarian army because his troops were outnumbered. He offered Michael Shishman a duel to solve the conflict. The Bulgarian emperor answered with the words cited by John Kantakouzenos: \n\nThe Byzantine emperor was said to have been infuriated with the answer and the fact that he was outsmarted. However, Michael III who was informed of the conflict between Andronikos III and Andronikos II hinted him that he could help Andronikos III against his grandfather in case of war and returned to Bulgaria promising that soon he would begin negotiations.\n\nOn a council held in Constantinople on the relations with Bulgaria it was decided that the two countries should begin negotiations despite the calls for punishing the Bulgarians for the invasion. Michael Shishman divorced his wife Anna Neda and married Theodora Palaiologina, the 35-year-old widow of emperor Theodore Svetoslav. The exact reasons for that act are unclear. Many historians suggest that the deterioration of the Bulgarian-Serbian relations was rooted in the Serbian penetration in Macedonia. The marriage cemented the peace treaty with the Byzantine Empire but the need for an ally against the Serbs made Michael Shishman prone to make concessions. It was decided that the border should follow the Philippopolis-Chernomen-Sozopol line. The agreement was finally signed in the autumn of 1324 and Michael Shishman spent the next several years at peace with his neighbors.\n\nIn 1327 Michael Shishman became involved in the renewed civil war in the Byzantine Empire, taking the side of his brother-in-law Andronikos III, while his grandfather and rival Andronikos II obtained the support of the Serbian king. Andronikos III and Michael Shishman met at Chernomen (according to Nicephorus Gregoras at Dimotika) and concluded an aggressive alliance against Serbia. The Byzantine emperor promised to Bulgaria territory with several towns and large amount of money if he would become a sole emperor. Based on that alliance, Andronikos III gained control of Macedonia but his success made Michael Shishman, who aimed at a prolonged conflict within the Byzantine Empire, enter into negotiations with Andronikos II, offering military support in exchange for money and the cession of some border lands. The Bulgarian ruler sent a detachment of 3,000 cavalry, commanded by Ivan the Russian, from Yambol to guard the Imperial Palace in Constantinople and Andronikos II but his intentions were to capture the old emperor and the city. Forewarned by his grandson, Andronikos II prudently kept the Bulgarians away from the capital and his person. When Michael Shishman understood that his plans were revealed he sent Ivan a letter with a single feather to retreat which meant that the orders had to be promptly executed.\n\nFollowing the victory of Andronikos III over his grandfather, Michael Shishman attempted to gain some lands by force. He invaded Thrace in June 1328 and pillaged the vicinities of Viza but retreated before the advance of Andronikos III. Another showdown in front of Adrianople 60 days later ended without battle and with the renewal of the peace treaty in October 1328, after which Michael Shishman returned to his country, but not before securing a large payoff. In return, the Bulgarians gave back the fortress of Bukelon which they had taken during the initial stages of the campaign. In the beginning of the next year the Bulgarian emperor requested a personal meeting with his Byzantine counterpart to negotiate a definitive treaty and joint military operations against the growing power of Serbia. In the locality known as \"Krimni\" between Sozopol and Anchialus the two signed \"lasting peace and eternal alliance\".\n\nThe divorce with Anna Neda in 1324 worsened the relations between Bulgaria and Serbia which had been cordial since the beginning of the 14th century. Anna Neda had to leave the capital Tarnovo with her sons and sought refuge from her brother Stephen Dečanski, the king of Serbia. Dečanski, who was engaged in war against his cousin Stephen Vladislav II, was in no position to oppose Michael Shishman. The Bulgarian emperor even acknowledged his rival as King of Serbia but his help to Vladislav was insufficient. In the spring of 1324 Dečanski sent the future Serbian archbishop Danilo II to negotiate with the Bulgarian emperor in Tarnovo but his mission was inconclusive. The two countries were again on the opposite sides in the Byzantine civil war when the Bulgarians allied with Andronikos III while the Serbs supported his grandfather.\n\nAfter the agreement with Andronikos III in 1329, Michael Shishman started preparations to attack while the Serbs were pillaging the areas around Ohrid. According to the Serbian chroniclers, he arrogantly demanded the submission of the Serbian king and threatened to \"set up his throne in the middle of the Serbian land\". In 1330, expecting to join the army of Andronikos III advancing from the south, Michael Shishman marched on Serbia with a large force of 15,000 troops, including reinforcements from his vassals and allies from Wallachia and Moldavia. At first he headed to Vidin, where historians believe he wanted to join forces with the soldiers of his brother Belaur, and then marched to the south. Due to poor coordination with the Byzantines, the Bulgarian army met the Serbs, whose army numbered 15,000 men as well, alone near Velbazhd (Kyustendil). On a personal meeting, the two rulers agreed to a one-day truce as both were expecting reinforcements. Backed on the agreement, Michael Shishman allowed his army to disperse in search for provisions. However, in the morning of 28 July, the main Serbian reinforcements, 1,000 heavily armed Catalan horsemen under the command of the King's son Stephen Dušan arrived, and the Serbs broke their word and attacked the Bulgarians. Despite the unexpected assault, Michael Shishman tried to bring his army to order but it was too late and the Serbs were victorious. The outcome of the battle shaped the balance of power in the Balkans for the next decades to come and although Bulgaria did not lose territory, the Serbs could occupy much of Macedonia.\n\nThe circumstances around the death of Michael Shishman are unclear. According to the Byzantine emperor and historian John Kantakouzenos the emperor was mortally wounded in the battle and soon died while another Byzantine historian suggests that Michael Shishman lived for three more days not able to gain consciousness and died on the fourth day. The Serbian chronicles state that his horse fell during the battle and crashed his body. When his body was taken to Dečanski, he mourned him but pointed out that he preferred war to peace. The early 15th-century Bulgarian scholar and cleric Gregory Tsamblak says that Michael Shishman was captured and killed by the son of the Serbian king, Stephen Dušan. He was buried in the Church of St George in Staro Nagoričane.\n\nMichael Shishman is considered a vain, aggressive, and opportunistic ruler, whose Protean foreign policy perhaps contributed to the battle that put an end to his life. At the same time he was clearly forceful and energetic, overcoming and reversing Bulgaria's losses during the uncertainty that preceded his accession, and managing to maintain internal peace and security within Bulgaria during his short reign. Andreev calls him the most remarkable 14th-century Bulgarian monarch. According to Kantacouzenos he desired to expand the country from Byzantium to the Istros, i. e. from Constantinople to the Danube which makes him the last medieval Bulgarian ruler who effectively attempted to capture the Byzantine capital. He was also the first Bulgarian ruler for decades who tried to lead a more active policy in Macedonia. Michael Shishman's seal is depicted on the reverse of the Bulgarian 2 levs banknote, issued in 1999 and 2005.\n\nMichael Shishman was married first to Anna Neda of Serbia, a daughter of Stefan Uroš II Milutin of Serbia. By this marriage he had several children, including Ivan Stefan, who succeeded as emperor of Bulgaria (r. 1330-1331), Michael who ruled shortly as despot of Vidin and Shishman. By his second marriage to Theodora Palaiologina, Empress of Bulgaria, a daughter of Michael IX Palaiologos of Byzantium, Michael Shishman had several children whose names are unknown.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2096981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096981", "title": "Ivan Stephen of Bulgaria", "text": "Ivan Stephen of Bulgaria\n\nIvan Stefan (; in English also \"John Stephen\") (c. 1300/1301–1373 (?)) ruled as emperor (tsar) of Bulgaria for eight months from 1330 to 1331. He was the eldest son of emperor Michael III Shishman and Anna Neda of Serbia, a daughter of King Stefan Uroš II Milutin of Serbia. Ivan Stephen was a descendant of the Terter dynasty, the Asen dynasty and the Shishman dynasty. After his father's ascension to the throne in 1323 Ivan Stefan was associated as co-emperor. When Michael III Shishman divorced Anna Neda to marry Theodora Palaiologina, the daughter of Byzantine emperor Michael IX Palaiologos, in 1324, Ivan Stefan was exiled along with his mother and brother in a monastery. In the summer of 1330 he became emperor of Bulgaria with the help of his uncle Stephen Dečanski. After he was deposed in a coup d'état by the Tarnovo nobility, he fled along with Anna Neda in the domains of his father's brother Belaur in Niš and later to Dubrovnik. He was later expelled from there by Stephen Dušan under the pressure of Ivan Alexander. Ivan Stefan probably died in Naples.\n\nDuring the battle of Velbazhd against the Serbs, emperor Michael III Shishman was wounded and died a few days later in captivity. On 2 August the Bulgarian boyars proposed peace to the Serbian king Stephen Dečanski. Stephen Dečanski met them in the area known as \"Mraka\" and accepted the proposal and agreed that Ivan Stephen should become emperor of Bulgaria, thus abandoning the idea of uniting the two countries under the sceptre of his son Stephen Dušan. However, less than a year later, Dečanski was deposed and exiled to the Zvečan Fortress where he died.\n\nAfter the agreement of Mraka was reached, Anna Neda her sons were informed to go to the Bulgarian capital Tarnovo. Ivan Stephen entered the city and was proclaimed emperor in the second half of August 1330. Although he was in his early 30s, Ivan Stephen ruled together with his mother; the reasons for that are unknown.\n\nAfter Ivan Stephen took the throne, the second wife of Michael Shishman Theodora Palaiologina was forced to leave the capital along with her sons and departed to Constantinople, to her brother the Byzantine emperor Andronikos III Palaiologos. After the news on the changes in Tarnovo reached Andronikos III he summoned his council and decided to abandon the war against Serbia and turn the Byzantine army to the weakened Bulgaria. The Byzantine emperor covered the attack on his former ally pointing that he would defend the rights of his sister and her children for the Bulgarian throne.\n\nWhen his troops were prepared in Macedonia, Andronikos III invaded Bulgarian Thrace in the summer of 1330. The towns of Anchialus (Pomorie), Messembria (Nessebar), Aetos (Aytos), Kteniya, Rusokastro and Diampolis (Yambol) surrendered without fighting and the hostilities ceased.\n\nDuring his rule Ivan Stephen was supported only by his uncle Belaur, while the rest of the nobility considered him a protégé of Dečanski and remained hostile. As a result of the discontent with the new government at the failures against the Byzantines, in March 1331 the \"protovestiarios\" Rascin and the logothete Philip organized a successful coup. The despot of Lovech Ivan Alexander was chosen as emperor of Bulgaria.\n\nIvan Stephen fled with his mother and his brother to Niš, in the lands of Belaur, where they stayed for a year and a half. In 1332 he and his mother moved to Dubrovnik while his brothers went to the Golden Horde, where his brother Shishman sought support from the Mongols and from the Byzantine Empire, but his efforts also came to nothing. There is no certain information on his later life.\n\nAccording to Detlev Schwennicke Ivan Stephen went with his mother to southern Italy where he married the illegitimate daughter of the prince of Tarento Philip I but did not have children. In 1342 he was with the future Byzantine emperor John VI Kantakouzenos during his escape from Constantinople. Twenty years later he was in a prison in Siena and seemed to have died in Naples in 1373. Schwennicke also wrote that Ivan Stephen could have perished in 1373 at a battle near Slobitza (modern name Slobozia).\n\n\n"}
