{"id": "2081516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081516", "title": "Mathematical psychology", "text": "Mathematical psychology\n\nMathematical psychology is an approach to psychological research that is based on mathematical modeling of perceptual, thought, cognitive and motor processes, and on the establishment of law-like rules that relate quantifiable stimulus characteristics with quantifiable behavior. The mathematical approach is used with the goal of deriving hypotheses that are more exact and thus yield stricter empirical validations. Quantifiable behavior is in practice often constituted by task performance.\n\nThe application of math in psychology could be traced back to at least seventeenth century when scientists like Kepler and Galileo were investigating the laws of mental process. At that time, psychology had not even been recognized as an independent subject of science. The applications of mathematics in psychology can be roughly classified into two areas: one is the mathematical modeling of psychological theories and experimental phenomena which leads to mathematical psychology, the other is the statistical approach of quantitative measurement practices in psychology which leads to psychometrics.\n\nThere are five major research areas in mathematical psychology: learning and memory, perception and psychophysics, choice and decision making, language and thinking, and measurement and scaling.\n\nAs quantification of behavior is fundamental in this endeavor, the theory of measurement is a central topic in mathematical psychology.\nMathematical psychology is therefore closely related to psychometrics. However, where psychometrics is concerned with individual differences (or population structure) in mostly static variables, mathematical psychology focuses on process models of perceptual, cognitive and motor processes as inferred from the 'average individual'. Furthermore, where psychometrics investigates the stochastic dependence structure between variables as observed in the population, mathematical psychology almost exclusively focuses on the modeling of data obtained from experimental paradigms and is therefore even more closely related to experimental psychology/cognitive psychology/psychonomics. Like computational neuroscience and econometrics, mathematical psychology theory often uses statistical optimality as a guiding principle, assuming that the human brain has evolved to solve problems in an optimized way. Central themes from cognitive psychology; limited vs. unlimited processing capacity, serial vs. parallel processing, etc., and their implications, are central in rigorous analysis in mathematical psychology. \n\nMathematical psychologists are active in many fields of psychology, especially in psychophysics, sensation and perception, problem solving, decision-making, learning, memory, and language, collectively known as cognitive psychology, and the quantitative analysis of behavior but also, e.g., in clinical psychology, social psychology, and psychology of music.\n\nChoice and decision making theory are rooted in the development of probability theory. Blaise Pascal considered situations in gambling and further extended to Pascal's wager. In the 18th century, Nicolas Bernoulli proposed the St. Petersburg Paradox in decision making, Daniel Bernoulli gave a solution and Laplace proposed a modification to the solution later on. In 1763, Bayes published the paper \"An Essay towards solving a Problem in the Doctrine of Chances\", which is the milestone of Bayesian statistics.\n\nRobert Hooke worked on modeling human memory, which is a precursor of the study of memory.\n\nThe research developments in German and England in the 19th century made psychology a new academic subject. Since German approach emphasized experiments in the investigation of the psychological processes that all human share and the England approach was the measurement of individual differences, the applications of mathematics are also different.\n\nIn German, Wilhelm Wundt established the first experimental psychology laboratory. The math in German psychology is mainly applied in sensory and psychophysics. Ernst Weber (1795–1878) created the first mathematical law of the mind, Weber's law, based on a variety of experiments. Gustav Fechner (1801–1887) contributed math theories in sensations and perceptions and one of them is the Fechner's law, which modifies Weber's law.\n\nMathematical modeling has a long history in psychology starting in the 19th century with Ernst Weber (1795–1878) and Gustav Fechner (1801–1887) being among the first to apply successful mathematical technique of functional equations from physics to psychological processes. They thereby established the fields of experimental psychology in general, and that of psychophysics in particular.\n\nResearchers in astronomy in the 19th century were mapping distances between stars by denoting the exact time of a star's passing of a cross-hair on a telescope. For lack of the automatic registration instruments of the modern era, these time measurements relied entirely on human response speed. It had been noted that there were small systematic differences in the times measured by different astronomers, and these were first systematically studied by German astronomer Friedrich Bessel (1782–1846). Bessel constructed \"personal equations\" from measurements of basic response speed that would cancel out individual differences from the astronomical calculations. Independently, physicist Hermann von Helmholtz measured reaction times to determine nerve conduction speed, developed resonance theory of hearing and the Young-Helmholtz theory of color vision.\n\nThese two lines of work came together in the research of Dutch physiologist F. C. Donders and his student J. J. de Jaager, who recognized the potential of reaction times for more or less objectively quantifying the amount of time elementary mental operations required. Donders envisioned the employment of his \"mental chronometry\" to scientifically infer the elements of complex cognitive activity by measurement of \"simple reaction time\"\n\nAlthough there are developments in sensation and perception, Johann Herbart developed a system of mathematical theories in cognitive area to understand the mental process of consciousness.\n\nThe origin of English psychology can be traced to the theory of evolution by Darwin. But the emergence of English psychology is because of Francis Galton, who interested in individual differences between humans on psychological variables. The math in English psychology is mainly statistics and the work and methods of Galton is the foundation of psychometrics.\n\nGalton introduced bivariate normal distribution in modeling the traits of the same individual, he also investigated measurement error and built his own model, and he also developed a stochastic branching process to examine the extinction of family names. There is also a tradition of the interest in studying intelligence in English psychology started from Galton. James McKeen Cattell and Alfred Binet developed tests of intelligence.\nThe first psychological laboratory was established in Germany by Wilhelm Wundt, who amply used Donders' ideas. However, findings that came from the laboratory were hard to replicate and this was soon attributed to the method of introspection that Wundt introduced. Some of the problems resulted from individual differences in response speed found by astronomers. Although Wundt did not seem to take interest in these individual variations and kept his focus on the study of the \"general human mind\", Wundt's U.S. student James McKeen Cattell was fascinated by these differences and started to work on them during his stay in England.\n\nThe failure of Wundt's method of introspection led to the rise of different schools of thought. Wundt's laboratory was directed towards conscious human experience, in line with the work of Fechner and Weber on the intensity of stimuli. In the United Kingdom, under the influence of the anthropometric developments led by Francis Galton, interest focussed on individual differences between humans on psychological variables, in line with the work of Bessel. Cattell soon adopted the methods of Galton and helped laying the foundation of psychometrics.\n\nThere are lots of statistical methods were developed even before the 20th century, Charles Spearman invented factor analysis which studies individual differences by the variance and covariance. German psychology and English psychology have been combined and taken over by the United States. The statistical methods dominated the field during the beginning of the century. There are two important statistical developments: Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) and analysis of variance (ANOVA). Since factor analysis unable to make causal inferences, the method of structural equation modeling was developed by Sewall Wright to correlational data to infer causality, which is still a major research area today. Those statistical methods formed psychometrics. The Psychometric Society was established in 1935 and the journal Psychometrika was published since 1936.\n\nIn the United States, behaviorism arose in opposition to introspectionism and associated reaction-time research, and turned the focus of psychological research entirely to learning theory. In Europe introspection survived in Gestalt psychology. Behaviorism dominated American psychology until the end of the Second World War, and largely refrained from inference on mental processes. Formal theories were mostly absent (except for vision and hearing).\n\nDuring the war, developments in engineering, mathematical logic and computability theory, computer science and mathematics, and the military need to understand human performance and limitations, brought together experimental psychologists, mathematicians, engineers, physicists, and economists. Out of this mix of different disciplines mathematical psychology arose. Especially the developments in signal processing, information theory, linear systems and filter theory, game theory, stochastic processes and mathematical logic gained a large influence on psychological thinking.\n\nTwo seminal papers on learning theory in \"Psychological Review\" helped to establish the field in a world that was still dominated by behaviorists: A paper by Bush and Mosteller instigated the linear operator approach to learning, and a paper by Estes that started the stimulus sampling tradition in psychological theorizing. These two papers presented the first detailed formal accounts of data from learning experiments.\n\nMathematical modeling of learning process were greatly developed in the 1950s as the behavioral learning theory was flourishing. One development is the stimulus sampling theory by Williams K. Estes, the other is linear operator models by Robert R. Bush, and Frederick Mosteller.\n\nSignal processing and detection theory are broadly used in perception, psychophysics and nonsensory area of cognition. Von Neumann's book The Theory of Games and Economic Behavior establish the importance of game theory and decision making. R. Duncan Luce and Howard Raiffa contributed to the choice and decision making area.\n\nThe area of language and thinking comes into the spot light with the development of computer science and linguistics, especially information theory and computation theory. Chomsky proposed the model of linguistics and computational hierarchy theory. Allen Newell and Herbert Simon proposed the model of human solving problems. The development in artificial intelligence and human computer interface are active areas in both computer science and psychology.\n\nBefore the 1950s, psychometricians emphasized the structure of measurement error and the development of high-power statistical methods to the measurement of psychological quantities but little of the psychometric work concerned the structure of the psychological quantities being measured or the cognitive factors behind the response data. Scott and Suppes studied relationship between the structure of data and the structure of numerical systems that represent the data. Coombs constructed formal cognitive models of the respondent in a measurement situation rather than statistical data processing algorithms, for example the unfolding model. Another breakthrough is the development of a new form of the psychophysical scaling function along with new methods of collecting psychophysical data, like Stevens' power law. \n\nThe 1950s saw a surge in mathematical theories of psychological processes, including Luce's theory of choice, Tanner and Swets' introduction of signal detection theory for human stimulus detection, and Miller's approach to information processing. By the end of the 1950s, the number of mathematical psychologists had increased from a handful by more than a tenfold, not counting psychometricians. Most of these were concentrated at the Indiana University, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Stanford. Some of these were regularly invited by the U.S. Social Science Research Counsel to teach in summer workshops in mathematics for social scientists at Stanford University, promoting collaboration.\n\nTo better define the field of mathematical psychology, the mathematical models of the 1950s were brought together in sequence of volumes edited by Luce, Bush, and Galanter: Two readings and three handbooks. This series of volumes turned out to be helpful in the development of the field. In the summer of 1963 the need was felt for a journal for theoretical and mathematical studies in all areas in psychology, excluding work that was mainly factor analytical. An initiative led by R. C. Atkinson, R. R. Bush, W. K. Estes, R. D. Luce, and P. Suppes resulted in the appearance of the first issue of the Journal of Mathematical Psychology in January, 1964.\n\nUnder the influence of developments in computer science, logic, and language theory, in the 1960s modeling gravitated towards computational mechanisms and devices. Examples of the latter constitute so called cognitive architectures (e.g., production rule systems, ACT-R) as well as connectionist systems or neural networks.\n\nImportant mathematical expressions for relations between physical characteristics of stimuli and subjective perception are Weber–Fechner law, Ekman's law, Stevens's power law, Thurstone's law of comparative judgment, the theory of signal detection (borrowed from radar engineering), the matching law, and Rescorla–Wagner rule for classical conditioning. While the first three laws are all deterministic in nature, later established relations are more fundamentally stochastic. This has been a general theme in the evolution in mathematical modeling of psychological processes: from deterministic relations as found in classical physics to inherently stochastic models.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCentral journals are the \"Journal of Mathematical Psychology\" and the \"British Journal of Mathematical and Statistical Psychology\". There are three annual conferences in the field, the annual meeting of the \"Society for Mathematical Psychology\" in the U.S, the annual European Mathematical Psychology Group meeting in Europe, and the \"Australasian Mathematical Psychology\" conference.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081530", "title": "Anttila", "text": "Anttila\n\nAnttila may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081542", "title": "Itis shopping centre", "text": "Itis shopping centre\n\nItis (formerly Itäkeskus) is the second largest shopping centre in Finland Itäkeskus in East Helsinki, Finland. It is located next to the Itäväylä motorway and the Itäkeskus metro station. The mall has been refurbished a number of times, most recently in 2014, increasing the gross leasable area – including offices – to a total of . It has a leasable retail area of , containing more than 150 shops; including restaurants, cafés and grocery stores, which makes it the fourth-largest shopping centre in Finland. The mall has 3,000 parking spaces and approximately 18 million visitors annually. Its anchor tenants are Stockmann, S-market, Lidl, Halonen, Tokmanni and H&M.\n\nThe shopping centre is divided into four sections: \"Pasaasi\" (1984), \"Pikku-Bulevardi\", \"Bulevardi\" (1992), and \"Piazza\" (2001). It has five floors, with the shops and other commercial services mainly concentrated on the first and second floors. The other floors are reserved mainly for parking and office space.\n\nThe shopping centre was built in three stages. The part now known as \"Pasaasi\" was completed in 1984 under the name \"Itämarket\" ('eastern market'), complete with the metro station and 41 shops. The new shopping centre proved successful, and an extension with 160 more shops (now \"Bulevardi\" and \"Pikku-Bulevardi\") was built by September 1992. Another extension, known as \"Piazza\", was opened in 2001. The following year, the property was sold by its owner Sponda Oyj to the Dutch company Wereldhave NV. Wereldhave sold Itis to the Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investing and CC Real on 2019.\n\nFinnkino opened Finland's first IMAX movie theatre in Itis on 30 November 2018.\n"}
{"id": "2081546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081546", "title": "Pilgrim Holiness Church", "text": "Pilgrim Holiness Church\n\nPilgrim Holiness Church (PHC) or International Apostolic Holiness Church (IAHC) is a Christian denomination associated with the holiness movement that split from the Methodist Episcopal Church through the efforts of Martin Wells Knapp in 1897. It was first organized in Cincinnati, Ohio, as the International Holiness Union and Prayer League (IHU/IAHC). Knapp, founder of the IAHC, ordained and his Worldwide Missions Board sent Charles and Lettie Cowman who had attended God's Bible School to Japan in December 1900. By the International Apostolic Holiness Churches Foreign Missionary Board and the co-board of the Revivalist the Cowmans had been appointed the General Superintendents and the Kilbournes the vice-General Superintendent for Korea, Japan and China December 29, 1905. The organization later became the Pilgrim Holiness Church in 1922 which eventually merged with the Wesleyan Methodists in 1968 to form the Wesleyan Church.\n\nIn 1937, the Emmanuel Association was formed as a result of a schism with the Pilgrim Holiness Church; it became one of the first denominations of the conservative holiness movement.\n\nToday, two groups of Pilgrim Holiness churches still exist from the secession of the merger in 1968-the Pilgrim Holiness Church, Inc. (of the Midwest) and the Pilgrim Holiness Church of NY, Inc. These two groups are not associated with the Wesleyan Church today but align themselves with the Conservative Holiness Movement. Among many other Holiness children, the Korea Holiness Church, daughter of the IAHC/PHC, has approximately 10,000 churches globally and two million members in the four holiness denominations in 2010.\n\nThe Pilgrim Holiness Church came into being as a result of the revival of scriptural holiness that swept across the various denominations in America in the last half of the nineteenth century, the same awakening that had rechanneled the energies of the Wesleyan Methodist Connection from social and political reform to holiness evangelism. The awakening crystallized in the establishment of many nondenominational and interdenominational holiness unions and associations and independent churches. Toward the close of the nineteenth century many of like faith began to draw together.\n\nA focal point for the beginning of The Pilgrim Holiness Church as an organization was the formation of the International Holiness Union and Prayer League in September 1897, at Cincinnati, Ohio, in the home of Martin Wells Knapp. Rev. Seth C. Rees was chosen President, and Rev. Martin Wells Knapp, Vice-President. The Union was not thought of as a church, nor intended as such, but was an interdenominational fellowship, marked by simplicity and the absence of restrictions. The primary purpose of the Union was to unite holiness people in promotion of worldwide holiness evangelism. A fourfold emphasis was declared concerning the regeneration of sinners, the entire sanctification of believers, the premillennial and imminent return of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the evangelization of the world. The Union met the need of many people for fellowship and cooperation in the spread of scriptural holiness and grew rapidly. Extensive revival work was carried on by members of the Union, resulting in the formation of the many city missions, churches, rescue homes, and camp meetings.\n\nIn the annual meeting of the Union held in July 1900, the name was changed to International Apostolic Holiness Union in order to express more fully the aim of promoting a return to apostolic principles and practices. Also in 1900 the foreign missionary work began as members of the Union went out as faith missionaries to South Africa, India, Japan [Korea], the West Indies, and South America.\n\nThe Union gradually developed into a church organization in order to provide church homes for the converts and the conservation of the work. In 1905 the name was changed to International Apostolic Holiness Union and Churches. At the General Assembly of 1905 the Foreign Missionary Board and the co-board of the Revivalist had appointed Charles and Lettie Cowman the General Superintedent and Edwin A. Kilbourne the Vice-General Superintendent for Korea, Japan and China. The interdenominational features also faded out, and in 1913 the name was altered to International Apostolic Holiness Church.\n\nIn 1919, the Indiana, Illinois-Missouri, and Kansas-Oklahoma Conferences of the Holiness Christian Church were received by the General Assembly of the International Apostolic Holiness Church. The Holiness Christian Church had its beginning in a revival movement around Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1882, and was organized at Linwood, Pennsylvania, in 1889 as the Holiness Christian Association. By 1919 it was known as the Holiness Christian Church and was composed of four conferences; it also sponsored a missionary work in Central America.\n\nThe Pentecostal Rescue Mission joined the International Holiness Church in March 1922, and became the New York District. It had originated at Binghamton, New York, in 1897, and had spread until it included missions, rescue work, camp meetings, orphanage activities, churches, and a missionary work in Alaska.\n\nIn October 1922, the General Assembly, in special session, received The Pilgrim Church of California and adopted the name, The Pilgrim Holiness Church. The Pilgrim Church was first organized on May 27, 1917, as the Pentecost-Pilgrim Church in Pasadena, California. By 1922, a school known as Pilgrim Bible School had been established and a periodical was being published at Pasadena, California, and missionaries had been sent out to Mexico.\n\nIn 1924, a group of several churches known as the Pentecostal Brethren in Christ united with and became part of the Ohio District of The Pilgrim Holiness Church.\n\nIn 1925, The People's Mission Church, with headquarters at Colorado Springs, Colorado, became part of The Pilgrim Holiness Church. It was the outgrowth of revival work that began in 1898 in Colorado Springs and spread through several surrounding states. A Bible school was operated, a periodical published, and a camp meeting maintained at Colorado Springs.\n\nIn 1946, The Holiness Church of California was received by the General Conference into The Pilgrim Holiness Church. The Church, which began in a revival movement in 1880 and was first known as The Holiness Bands, maintained a Bible school at El Monte, California, and a growing missionary work in Peru and Palestine.\n\nThe Africa Evangelistic Mission, with headquarters at Boksburg, Transvaal, South Africa, was received by The Pilgrim Holiness Church in 1962. The Mission carried on work organized into three districts, two of which were located in the Orange Free State and Transvaal in the Republic of South Africa, and a third district comprising extensive work in Mozambique.\n\nThe growth of the Pilgrim Holiness Church continued through revival work and evangelism in greater measure than by the uniting of other bodies. An important turning point in the organizational structure was reached in 1930 when the General Assembly unified the administration of the denomination by providing for one general superintendent, one general board, and a general headquarters at Indianapolis, Indiana. In 1958 a plan for three general superintendents was inaugurated. In 1962 the general conference, known until 1942 as the General Assembly, was designated as the International Conference in recognition of the growth and development of the overseas work.\n\nThe original purpose of the founders of The Pilgrim Holiness Church to promote worldwide holiness evangelism remained an indelible characteristic. Missionary work was carried on in many lands, and The Pilgrim Holiness Church extended beyond the United States and Canada to the following places: South Africa, including Natal, Transvaal, Cape Province, and Orange Free State; Swaziland; Mozambique; Zambia; the Caribbean area, including Grand Cayman, Jamaica, St. Croix, St. Thomas, Saba, St. Kitts, Nevis, Antigua, Barbuda, Barbados, St. Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago, and Curaçao; Guyana; Suriname; Brazil; Peru; Mexico; Philippine Islands; and England.\n\nIn 1937, the Emmanuel Association was formed as a result of a schism with the Pilgrim Holiness Church (PHC) spearheaded by Ralph Goodrich Finch, the PHC General Superintendent of Foreign Missions; it became one of the first denominations of the conservative holiness movement.\n\nMerger between The Pilgrim Holiness Church and The Wesleyan Methodist Church of America was proposed at various times, and was voted upon by the General Conferences of the two bodies in 1958 and 1959, failing to pass in the Wesleyan Methodist General Conference by a margin of a single vote. In 1962, the General Conference of The Pilgrim Holiness Church took action expressing renewed interest in union with The Wesleyan Methodist Church. In 1963, the General Conference of The Wesleyan Methodist Church took like action, instructing its Committee on Church Union to pursue its work with all due diligence. On June 15, 1966, the Thirty-Second General Conference of The Wesleyan Methodist Church adopted The Basis for Merger and Constitution, and subsequently the annual conferences and local churches ratified the action. On June 16, 1966, the Twenty-Fifth International Conference of The Pilgrim Holiness Church also adopted The Basis for Merger and Constitution. Thus the formation of The Wesleyan Church was authorized. The General Board of The Pilgrim Holiness Church and the General Board of Administration of The Wesleyan Methodist Church cooperated in planning the uniting General Conference, and in preparing the new book of Discipline for its consideration. On June 26, 1968, The Pilgrim Holiness Church and The Wesleyan Methodist Church of America were united to form The Wesleyan Church.\n\nIn 1966, the pastors of two small Pilgrim Holiness Churches in Illinois felt the need to withdraw from the formal organization which, in their opinion, seemed to smother their love for Godliness and holy living.\n\nIn December of that year, Rev. Eugene Gray informed his Bloomington, Ill., church that he was resigning and leaving the denomination, and that they were free to do whatever they felt they should. The Church felt this should be a church decision, and set the date for the membership vote. During the last week of December, the church voted to withdraw from the denomination.\n\nDuring this same year in Decatur, Illinois, Pastor James Southerland was also making decisions. The Board had voted unanimously not to go with the merger, and in January 1967, the church body voted against it also. A Statement of Purpose was drawn up and presented to the Church for its consideration. This Statement was addressed to the Council of the Illinois District and was speaking to three aspects of the issue. They felt, first of all, that spiritually they would not benefit due to the trend of worldliness and wavering from the standards and convictions of the Founding Fathers.\n\nSecondly, they asked the Council to consider letting the Illinois District as a whole be excluded from the merger. If this was not possible, the Decatur church was willing to stand alone. \nThirdly, they asked for a clear title to their property. If these requests were not granted the Church was still standing against the merger and would withdraw from the General Church. After meeting with the Council and a lawsuit, the Decatur Church was able to purchase their property from the General Church, but the Bloomington Church chose not to do so, and purchased the property where they are now worshipping.\n\nThese two churches at Decatur, Illinois, and Bloomington, Illinois, considered becoming a part of the New York group, but felt that due to geographical separation, it would be better to form a self-supporting group, and work in cooperation with the New York body. In December 1966 a committee was formed by the council of the New York Pilgrim Holiness Church, Inc. Rev. Eugene Gray was appointed as Chairman. Rev. James Southerland was appointed Secretary; Rev. John Yount, as Advisor. They petitioned the N. Y. PHC to organize an autonomous conference in the midwest.\n\nThus, the first five churches to join were:\n\nA new organization known as the Midwest Conference of the Pilgrim Holiness Church of New York, was then begun. June 16–25, 1967, the 1st annual Camp Meeting was held indoors at the Decatur Pilgrim Holiness Church located at 2615 Prairie Ave. Rev. Victor Glenn (Director of Faith Missions, Bedford, IN) & Rev. James McLaren (Evangelist- Binghamton, N.Y.) were the evangelists. Mrs. Shirley Gray and Paul Gray provided special singing. Rev. Eugene Gray served as Chairman and Rev. James Southerland as Host Pastor.\n\nThe purpose for this camp meeting was to unify the Churches and to bring them together for fellowship. By the time the 1st conference was held in August 1967, five other churches had joined the group. \nThe 1st Conference Session was held at the Illiana Camp Ground in Terre Haute, IN, on August 26, 1967. The Holy Spirit placed His seal of approval upon the conference from the opening prayer. Shouts arose from the congregation and numerous testimonies were given as the glory of the Lord descended upon His people.\n\nThe following men were elected to serve as the first Conference Council:\n\nBy 1971, the Conference had become an autonomous body. The next year they reorganized as the Pilgrim Holiness Church, Incorporated, dropping the phrase \"Of the Midwest\" from their charter. They also drafted their own discipline, instead of using that of the New York Pilgrims.\n\nThe New York Pilgrims trace their organizational roots back to 1897, when first organized as the Pentecostal Rescue Mission of Binghamton, New York. For a time this growing group of churches shared organizational ties with larger denominational groups, but joined the Pilgrim Holiness Church in 1922. In 1963 the New York District seceded from the Pilgrim Holiness Church and once more became an independent organization, and now the Conference has more than 50 churches.\n\nIn doctrine and practice they are conservative evangelicals of Wesleyan-Arminian persuasion who believe the Bible is the only written word of God, with the original text inspired by God and without error.\n\nThey believe the Creator God has revealed Himself to us in three persons: the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. They believe in the necessity of personal salvation by grace through faith in the atoning blood of Jesus Christ.\n\nThey believe that the Holy Spirit is instrumental in leading a believer to recognize the need of holiness of heart, wrought instantaneously as a second definite work of grace when one's will is yielded to God's, therefore making it possible for him to perfectly love God with all his heart, soul, mind and strength.\n\nThey believe in the imminent return of Jesus Christ for the taking away of the universal Church of God.\n\nAmong many other Holiness children, the Korea Holiness Church (KHC), daughter of the IAHC/PHC since 1905, emphasizes on a full gospel or the four-fold gospel mottos: regeneration, the baptism with Holy Spirit as the entire sanctification, divine healing and the second coming of Jesus with doing home evangelism and sending overseas missionaries. The KHC has approximately 10,000 churches globally and two million members in the four Korean holiness denominations in 2010. Seoul Theological University, organ of the Korea Evangelical Holiness Church (KEHC 8,000 churches and 0.8 million members), has 5,000 students. Sung Kyul (Holiness) University, organ of Korea Jesus Holiness Church, separated from KEHC 1961, has 9,000 students. Korea Nazarene University, organ of the KNHC, separated from KEHC in 1948, has 7,000 students. Korea Church of God, separated from KEHC in 1936 has 100 holiness churches in Korea.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081551", "title": "Walter Cowan", "text": "Walter Cowan\n\nAdmiral Sir Walter Henry Cowan, 1st Baronet, (11 June 1871 – 14 February 1956), known as Tich Cowan, was a Royal Navy officer who saw service in both the First and Second World Wars; in the latter he was one of the oldest British servicemen on active duty.\n\nCowan was born in Crickhowell, in Brecknockshire, Wales, on 11 June 1871, the eldest son of Walter Frederick James Cowan, an officer in the Royal Welch Fusiliers. After his father's retirement from the British Army, the family settled in Alveston, Warwickshire, where his father became a justice of the peace.\n\nCowan never went to school, but entered the Royal Navy in 1884 at the training ship, HMS \"Britannia\", a classmate to fellow future admiral David Beatty.\n\nIn 1886, as midshipmen, Cowan and Beatty joined , flagship of the Mediterranean Fleet. Cowan saw service in Benin and Nigeria in 1887. He fell sick and was invalided home after less than a year, but later rejoined the \"Alexandra\", returning with her to Britain in 1889. He then joined in the Training Squadron and was commissioned as a sub-lieutenant in 1890. He was appointed to , flagship of the East India Station. In 1892 he was promoted lieutenant and became first lieutenant of the gunboat . However, in 1893 he was invalided home with dysentery.\n\nIn 1894 Cowan was appointed to the light cruiser off West Africa. During this time he participated in a number of expeditions against native and Arab insurgents. In 1898, he was appointed to the destroyer in the Mediterranean, but only stayed in her for six months before being given command of the Nile gunboat . He saw action in the Mahdist War, taking part in the Battle of Atbara and the Battle of Omdurman. He then commanded the entire Nile gunboat flotilla during the Fashoda Incident. He received the Distinguished Service Order for these actions.\n\nCowan then participated in the Second Boer War, acting as aide-de-camp to Lord Kitchener and then to Lord Roberts.\n\nReturning to England in 1901, Cowan was appointed first lieutenant of the battleship . In June 1901 he was promoted commander at the early age of thirty, and in May the following year he was appointed to the battleship , coast guard ship at Holyhead. He later took command of the destroyer and acted as second-in-command of the Devonport destroyer flotilla under Roger Keyes, who was then developing new destroyer tactics. They became firm friends. Cowan commanded several more destroyers, acquiring a widespread reputation as a destroyer captain, and then succeeded Keyes in command of the flotilla. In 1904 he was appointed Member of the Royal Victorian Order. In 1905 he took command of and he was promoted captain in 1906. He transferred to the cruiser in 1907 and in 1908 took command of all destroyers of the Channel Fleet. In 1909 he transferred to the Reserve Fleet and in 1910 he became captain of the new light cruiser .\n\nIn 1912 Cowan became chief of staff to John de Robeck, who was then Flag Officer Patrols.\n\nIn 1914, shortly before the outbreak of the First World War, Cowan was given command of the old pre-dreadnought . Six months later he took over the 26,270 ton as flag captain to Osmond Brock. He commanded her at the Battle of Jutland, where she was badly damaged. He was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1916.\n\nIn June 1917 Cowan was made commodore of the 1st Light Cruiser Squadron, which he led at the Second Battle of Heligoland Bight on 17 November 1917. In 1918 he was promoted rear admiral, staying in command of the squadron.\n\nIn January 1919 the 1st Light Cruiser Squadron was sent to the Baltic Sea. Cowan's mission was to keep the sea lanes open to the new republics of Finland, Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania, which were under threat of being overrun by Soviet Russia. The squadron support enabled them to secure their freedom. During the course of this campaign, coastal motor boats attached to Cowan's command sank one Bolshevik battleship and a cruiser at Kronstadt naval base. Augustus Agar received the Victoria Cross for his part in these events. Andrew Browne Cunningham, later Britain's leading Second World War admiral, commanded Cowan's destroyers in this campaign. Cowan's forceful diplomacy ensured a successful mission, for which he was promoted to Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in 1919 and created a baronet, \"of the Baltic\", in the 1921 New Year Honours. He was awarded the Cross of Liberty (VR I/1) of Estonia.\n\nIn 1921, Cowan was appointed to command the Battlecruiser Squadron, flying his flag in . He was unemployed from 1923 to 1925, although he was promoted vice admiral in 1923. In 1925 he was appointed Commander-in-Chief, Coast of Scotland and in 1926 Commander-in-Chief, America and West Indies Station, holding the command until 1928. He was promoted admiral in 1927. His final appointment was as First and Principal Naval Aide-de-Camp to the King in 1930. He retired in 1931.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Cowan was given a job by his old friend Roger Keyes, then head of the Commandos. Cowan voluntarily took the lower rank of commander and went to Scotland in 1941 to train the newly formed corps in small boat handling. He managed to get himself sent to the North African theatre of operations with the Commandos. Shortly after arrival he saw action at the second Battle of Mechili in April 1941\n\nIn May 1941, in his 72nd year, Cowan took part in two abortive seaborne raids with No. 8 (Guards) Commando involving an expedition along the North Egyptian and Cyrenaica coast aboard , a river gun-boat from the China Station with a top speed of 12 knots. The expeditions were repeatedly attacked from the air over several days by Axis forces before being constrained to abandon the endeavour on the second attempt through battle damage to the boat's rudder mechanism, which limited it to going around in circles in repetition. During the incessant attacks, with scores of bombs splashing into the sea about the vessel, Cowan (believed by the commandos in whose midst he was to be seeking a heroic death in action) was regularly to be seen on the deck blazing away at the oncoming hostile aircraft with a Tommy Gun.\n\nCowan also saw action subsequently at the Battle of Bir Hakeim, where having attached himself to the Indian 18th King Edward VII's Own Cavalry, he was captured on 27 May 1942, having fought an Italian tank crew single-handedly armed only with a revolver. He was repatriated in 1943 under an agreement with Italy whereby some 800 Italian seamen interned in neutral Saudi Arabia from the Red Sea Flotilla were exchanged for a similar number of British prisoners of war. An unusual feature was that there was no stipulation about the men's future activities and they were free to return to action. Accordingly, Cowan rejoined the commandos and saw action again in Italy during 1944. He was awarded a Bar to his Distinguished Service Order for \"gallantry, determination and undaunted devotion to duty as Liaison Officer with Commandos in the attack and capture of Mount Ornito, Italy and during attacks on the islands of Solta, Mljet and Brac in the Adriatic, all of which operations were carried out under very heavy fire from the enemy\".\n\nCowan retired once more in 1945. After the war he was invited to become the honorary colonel of the 18th King Edward's Own Cavalry, and visited India to receive the post, which he considered the greatest he had attained in his extensive military career. \n\nCowan died on 14 February 1956, in his 85th year. The Cowan Baronetcy became extinct on his death.\n\nIn 2007 the Estonian Navy named a British-made minehunter of the \"Sandown\" class the \"Admiral Cowan\". The ship's crest is based on Cowan's family arms.\n\nMemorials in the Estonian capital Tallinn, in the Latvian capital Riga and in Portsmouth Cathedral commemorate the 110 men of the Royal Navy and Royal Air Force killed in the Baltic action of 1919.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081553", "title": "Arthur Spooner", "text": "Arthur Spooner\n\nArthur Eugene Spooner is a fictional character played by Jerry Stiller on the sitcom \"The King of Queens\". He lives with his daughter Carrie and her husband, Doug Heffernan in Rego Park, Queens.\n\nLittle is known about Arthur's early life. He was born in 1925 to an abusive father (played in one episode by Stiller's own son, Ben Stiller), but nothing is known about his mother. He lived on a farm from the ages of 7 to 10, then again at 43, was a gifted singer as a child, performed jigs for the workers at the Empire State Building, has an estranged half-brother named Skitch (played in one episode by Shelley Berman), was bald until the age of 12, and lost his virginity to someone named Peppermint Patty.\n\nHe possibly attended the State University of New York at Oneonta, having mentioned playing for the \"Oneonta Red Dragons\".\n\nArthur served in World War II in the Italian theater and in The Battle of the Bulge, and also mentions being in Paris, France. He variously claims to have been in the US Army 33rd Brigade and the 71st Infantry Division (United States). At some point during his enlistment, he left a man named Jack Russell for dead.\n\nSometime after the war, Arthur took up a career as an actor, performing on Broadway and at other venues. It was during this time that he met his first wife, Sophia, a show dancer. After a night of passion, the couple found out that Sophia was pregnant, and decided to get married for the sake of the child, Simone (later Carrie). Arthur lost Carrie's birth name of Simone in a poker game and she had to switch names with her cousin Carrie. (Carrie has no recollection of this incident.)\n\nHe quit his acting career in an attempt to create a more stable life for his daughter. Ironically, his unstable marital life and always unsure job situation led to even less security than Carrie might have had if Arthur remained an actor. Doug and Carrie occasionally point out this fact, but Arthur always discounts it.\n\nDuring Carrie's young life Arthur held an innumerable number of jobs, including at a crab cannery in Maryland, jobs in sales, a brief stint working for PBS on \"Sesame Street\", and many others. He worked briefly in customer service, stating if a little person walked into his store it was all he could talk about for years. He also sold ribbons at the time Doug and Carrie were purchasing their home. He thought it was a good idea to cut out the middle man and offer little girls in the schoolyard ribbons to buy for their hair, which Carrie convinced him was a bad idea. He was unable to maintain any of these careers for more than a month at a time, resulting in a very volatile home life for his family. Though he was never able to hold down a job for very long, he did land 74 of them, one as a woman. However, in another episode, he claims to have had \"nearly 200.\"\n\nIn 1985, Sophia Spooner died, leaving Arthur a widower and the single parent of fifteen-year-old Carrie. With Arthur unable to stay employed, Carrie was forced to work in addition to attending high school. Because of this, she never attended college.\n\nDuring a Thanksgiving episode, it was mentioned that Arthur met his second wife Lilly at a bus stop. Arthur said \"Why don't you go back to the corner where I found you?!\", and Lilly replied \"I was waiting for the bus!\"\n\nIn the pilot episode, Arthur's third wife Tessie has died. Arthur subsequently burns his house down while cooking on his \"lucky hot plate.\" This forces Arthur and his other daughter Sara (who was written out during the first season without explanation) to move in with Carrie and Doug. Arthur quickly shows himself to be obnoxious, boorish, and mentally unstable, frequently bursting into tirades at the slightest provocation. His grating personality angers Doug, but as the series progresses, they grow accustomed to each other.\n\nPerhaps Arthur's most notable trait was his tendency to speak in flowing, elegant sentences, typically employing long words.\n\nHe also frequently used outdated expressions, such as \"cat's feet.\" Likewise, he calls cell phones \"cellular telephones\", referred to Istanbul as \"Constantinople\" and identifies catsup by its proper name rather than by the popular brand name that is universally called \"Ketchup.\"\n\nArthur always adamantly refused to be outdone or slighted in any conceivable manner. During the course of the show, he forced a woman to lose her job because she \"hurt his feelings\", caused countless false emergencies at his senior center, reduced many people to tears, investigated purported similarities between himself and fictional characters, engaged in arguments with tough younger individuals, often forcing Doug to protect him, loudly proclaimed most of his views on Doug and Carrie's wedding video, and relentlessly insulted Douglas' friends, particularly Spence.\n\nA good example of Arthur's behavior is when he discovers an old episode airing of \"The $10,000 Pyramid\" on which he appeared in 1976, a fact that he has told Doug \"several dozen times.\" When asked if he won, Arthur, in turn, asks if he would be \"living in this dump if [he had].\" He later asks for Carrie's help in \"[suing] the boyish grin off of Dick Clark's face\" because he never got the full year's supply of Rice-A-Roni that he had been promised after the appearance, a scandal he has named \"Rice-A-Roni-gate.\" In an effort to placate Arthur, Clark's representative offers to give him a book instead of the boxed rice meal, the continued production of which the representative is unsure. After assuring the representative that Rice-A-Roni is \"still made in a variety of mouth-watering flavors,\" Arthur refuses screaming, \"I don't wanna read. I wanna eat!\" Arthur ultimately receives a 30-year supply of Rice-A-Roni, in addition to the original supply he was promised on the game show, after (presumably) blackmailing Dick Clark with a photo of the TV icon \"locked in a muddy embrace with Fannie Flagg,\" which was captured from his appearance on the \"Battle of the Network Stars\". (The vintage \"Pyramid\" clip used for the episode is from an actual appearance Stiller made on the game show that same year.) Additionally, in the season 6 episode \"Trash Talker,\" Arthur mentions that he allegedly has a lifelong hatred for Larry King, stemming from when they were kids and Arthur stole one of King's prized baseball cards and was subsequently kicked out of school after King tattled on him.\n\nArthur marries his fourth wife Veronica Olchin (played by Stiller's real wife Anne Meara), mother of Doug's friend Spence Olchin, in the series finale \"China Syndrome\" and divorce one year later.\n\nOne of his most often used quotes is \"How dare you!\" He has also been known to say \"Thank you very little!\", and \"That's a separate issue!\" He often remarks to those who pry into his business, \"That's none of your affair!\" When he feels that he is being pushed around or told what to do (usually by his daughter, Carrie), Arthur often responds by implying that the person is a dictator (e.g. \"yes, mein fuhrer!\") or a smear tactic politician (e.g. \"no thank you Senator McCarthy!\").\n\nHe almost invariably addresses or refers to Doug by his full name \"Douglas\". Likewise, when he addresses Doug's cousin Danny, he calls him his full name \"Daniel\". He also addresses Spence by his full name \"Spencer\", Doug and Carrie's neighbor Lou Ferrigno as \"Louis\" and Deacon as \"Mr. Palmer\".\n\nSarcastic, brash, and always scheming, Arthur lives in the basement of Doug and Carrie's house. Quick to take offense, he shouts frequently and often unnecessarily, and often comes up with absolutely absurd, irregular, or illogical money-making scams. He is basically a selfish, narcissistic individual who feels the world owes him, and that he needs to be treated a certain way for who he thinks he is.\n\nArthur frequently makes bizarre claims (for example, that he invented the moist towelette, and claiming that Charles M. Schulz based Charlie Brown on Arthur's life). He also steals change from Doug's nightstand. Arthur is walked by a dog walker named Holly Shumpert (Nicole Sullivan), and his best friend is Mickey (Ford Rainey).\n\nArthur is outspoken for left-leaning political views and in some episodes a supporter of the communist nations around the world. In the episode \"Steve Moscow\" he claims that the Soviet Union was a \"workers' paradise,\" and in the episode \"Strike Out\", he says that he was once enrolled at a socialist summer camp. When Doug goes on strike, Arthur almost kisses him out of pride; these feelings of affection quickly turn into disgust when Doug takes a job at a school as a substitute teacher (with Arthur angrily remarking: \"Whatever helps you sleep at night you douche\"). However, in one episode, in a debate with Spence on whether the United States should lift the embargo on Cuba, Arthur was against the lifting of the embargo and Spence was for it (yet, in context, the debate was a scene where Arthur tried to prove he could withstand any argument, resulting in him deferring from the point, and vehemently insulting Spence).\n\nArthur's eccentricity extends to going so far as to explicitly forbid a variety of things from the Heffernan household, including but not limited to: Halloween, red pens, soft cheese, non-American VCRs (but not DVD players), any mention of Franklin D. Roosevelt's paralytic illness, and miniature Kit Kats.\n\nAt times he can offer fatherly advice, and cares about Doug and Carrie. In the episode \"Deacon Blues\" he tells Carrie, \"You're not angry cookie, you're scared\", as to show Carrie her true feelings. Other times, however, he may become a burden on Doug and Carrie, which Doug claims is unfair because he owns the house. Arthur's odd behavior is said to result from him being neglected as a child. He is often seen as a child because Doug and Carrie have to take care of him. However, around strangers, he often claims that he owns the home (in one episode, after discovering what the property is worth, he stages an 'open house', taking offers on the place), his daughter works at menial labor despite Arthur's invented wealth, and Doug is a complete deadbeat.\n\nArthur's handling of money is often a matter of contention. He regularly steals change from Doug and has, according to Carrie, \"no retirement, no insurance, no Social Security.\" He once planned to save a large amount of money for a potential grandchild, but only remarks \"the dog races are terribly fixed.\" He often claims to be very wealthy, especially when wooing women. He has almost no money at all, not even a few dollars, as a check he writes for a $1.42 coffee bounces. Insulted by the barista's distrust of his financial situation, he claims to have vast offshore accounts, and is in the process of moving money around.\n\nAccording to the DVD commentary of the Pilot episode, the character of Arthur was conceived with Jerry Stiller in mind, but he initially turned down the role. Veteran comedian Jack Carter was then cast and a pilot was shot. Soon afterward, Stiller changed his mind and took the part, which required reshooting of scenes featuring Carter.\n"}
{"id": "2081555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081555", "title": "Bei Kai Viti", "text": "Bei Kai Viti\n\nThe Bai Kei Viti (BKV, sometimes known in English as \"Protector of Fiji\", or \"Fortress for the People of Fiji\"), was a political party in Fiji.\n\nThe party was formed by residents and some chiefs of Ba Province to contest the 1999 elections, but failed to win any seats in the House of Representatives. Following the coup d'état which deposed the elected government of Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry in 2000, the BKV contested the election held to restore democracy in 2001. This time, they had former interim Prime Minister Ratu Tevita Momoedonu (a defector from the Fiji Labour Party) as their leader, but once again, they won no seats, though they received 2.2 percent of the popular vote.\n\nIn 2004 the BKV merged with the Party of National Unity (PANU), also a Ba-based party, to form the People's National Party (PNP) under the leadership of former Cabinet Minister Meli Bogileka, and was officially deregistered on 14 August 2005. Bogileka declared that officials from the two parties wanted Ba Province to have a single party to represent their interests at the parliamentary election scheduled for 2006.\n\nThe merger proved complicated, however. PANU spokesman Senator Ponipate Lesavua announced on 11 January 2006 that he had reregistered the defunct party, and on 23 January that the BKV had also seceded from the PNP and had signed an agreement to merge with PANU. On 5 March, the BKV, PANU, and the PNP all decided to resume the merger, but this time under the PANU banner.\n"}
{"id": "2081558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081558", "title": "Doug Pinnick", "text": "Doug Pinnick\n\nDouglas Theodore Pinnick (born September 3, 1950), sometimes stylized as dUg Pinnick or simply dUg, is an American musician best known as the bass guitarist, songwriter, and co-lead vocalist for the hard rock and progressive metal band King's X. He has performed on fifteen albums with King's X, and recorded four solo albums. Pinnick has also participated in numerous side projects, and has multiple guest appearances to his credit. He is recognized for his unique vocals (which are characterized by a strong gospel influence), and heavily distorted bass tone.\n\nDoug Pinnick was born in Braidwood, Illinois then moved to Joliet, Illinois when he was fourteen. He grew up in a musical family where everyone either sang or played an instrument. He was raised by his great-grandmother, a devoutly religious woman, and was reared in a very strict Southern Baptist environment. He has seventeen half-brothers and sisters, from three mothers and two fathers. When he was in grade school, Pinnick participated in choir and played saxophone. As a teenager, he listened to classic R&B and Motown artists such as Stevie Wonder, Little Richard, and Aretha Franklin. Pinnick sang in bands throughout high school, one of the earliest being a group called Stone Flower which he describes as \"Chicago Transit Authority meets Sly & the Family Stone\". While attending Joliet Junior College in 1969, Pinnick was inspired by hard rock bands such as Led Zeppelin and Jimi Hendrix. Around this time, he also started listening to perhaps his biggest influence, Sly & the Family Stone. His dream was to form a band that combined all of these varied influences.\n\nAfter attending college for roughly six months, Pinnick dropped out and joined a traveling gospel band called The Spurrlows.\n\nAt one point in the early seventies, Pinnick moved to a Christian community in Florida. There, he remained involved in the music business by promoting small shows by Christian rock bands. He soon grew tired of that and moved back to Illinois.\n\nIn the mid seventies, Pinnick formed a band called Servant with keyboardist Matt Spransy. They were described as a progressive, art rock type of band along the lines of Yes and Emerson, Lake & Palmer. The band played all over the midwest and put together a demo of original songs. Oddly enough, there was a band from Canada that also called themselves Servant who had actually scored a recording contract. Spransy joined the other band in the late seventies, and recorded a song for the 1981 album \"Rockin' Revival\" that he and Pinnick had written together called \"I'm Gonna Live\". Pinnick was also part of Alpha as well as his own Doug Pinnick Band shortly after Spransy joined the Canadian Servant.\n\nIn 1979, Pinnick was invited to join a band that was forming in Springfield, Missouri. with singer Greg X. Volz of Petra fame. He accepted the offer and re-located, only to have the band dissolve within a month of his arrival. He was soon offered a spot in guitarist Phil Keaggy's touring band, along with the drummer from the failed Volz project, Jerry Gaskill. Pinnick has a co-writing credit on the track \"Just a Moment Away\" from Keaggy's 1980 album \"Ph'lip Side\". Pinnick toured with Keaggy for about a year before returning to Springfield and set about looking for a new musical project.\n\nPinnick soon became involved with guitarist Ty Tabor after seeing him play a concert at Evangel College in Springfield. Jerry Gaskill was later included and the band The Edge was born. In 1983, the band changed their name to Sneak Preview and released an independent, self titled LP. The trio evolved into King's X several years (and a move to Houston, Texas) later.\n\nSince then, Pinnick has become one of the most respected voices in rock music by fans, critics, and peers alike. He is highly sought-after by other artists for album guest appearances, as well as membership in several side bands and recording projects.\n\nIn 1998, Pinnick confirmed his homosexuality, coming out during an interview for \"Regeneration Quarterly\". Diamante Music Group cancelled distribution of King's X material in Christian retail stores following this information becoming public knowledge. In recent years, Pinnick has revealed that he now identifies as agnostic, in contrast to his Contemporary Christian music past.\n\nBesides King's X, Pinnick became active with his own Hound Pound studio in Texas. He currently resides in Los Angeles.\n\nIn March 2018, it was announced that original member of the proto punk band MC5 Wayne Kramer would embark on a 35-date tour of North America for their 50th anniversary of the band's debut, \"Kick Out the Jams\", recruiting Pinnick to play bass along with Kim Thayil of Soundgarden, Brendan Canty of Fugazi, and Marcus Durant of Zen Guerilla.\n\nPinnick's first solo project, Poundhound, released two albums, \"Massive Grooves\" and \"Pineappleskunk\", with King's X bandmate Jerry Gaskill on drums on some tracks from the first album and all tracks on the second. Doug dropped the Poundhound moniker for his third solo album, \"Emotional Animal\", instead crediting himself as \"dUg Pinnick.\" The album, released by Magna Carta Records, features Gaskill's son, Joey, on drums. \nHe released his fourth solo album, Strum Sum Up in November 2007 on Magna Carta.\n\nPinnick was also a member of the short-lived band Supershine, along with long-time Trouble guitarist, Bruce Franklin and Trouble drummer, Jeff Olson. Supershine released only one self-titled album in 2000 on Metal Blade Records. He sang lead vocals on the eponymous debut album by former Winger guitarist Reb Beach's band The Mob, released in 2005. He also stood in for lead singer Corey Glover on Living Colour's European tour in August 2006 while Glover was starring as Judas Iscariot in a tour of \"Jesus Christ Superstar\".\n\nOther vocal appearances by Doug Pinnick include Dream Theater's \"Lines In the Sand\" (guest vocals in the choruses) from the \"Falling into Infinity\" album, \"Welcome to the Machine\" from the \"An All Star Lineup Performing the Songs of Pink Floyd\" album, \"Parasite\" on an all-star tribute to Kiss entitled \"Spin The Bottle\", as well as \"Taxman\" on a Beatles tribute album entitled \"Butchering the Beatles\".\n\nPinnick appears on the 2008 holiday album \"We Wish You A Metal XMas...\", a compilation album featuring many hard rock musicians collaborating on popular Christmas songs. Pinnick appears on the track \"Little Drummer Boy\". He performed guest vocals on the Black Sugar Transmission track \"Runnin' Like a Dog\", which was released on the band's e.p. USE IT in 2009. He also performs with King's X partner Ty Tabor, along with former Galactic Cowboys members Wally Farkas and Alan Doss, as a group called The Jibbs. They have a song, \"Burns In The Rain\", available via download to help relief efforts following Hurricane Ike.\n\nDug sang all lead vocals on Razr 13's (Austin, Texas) debut record \"Reflections\" released in 2009. Professional wrestler, Vinnie Vineyard (Funkmaster V) uses a remixed version of Pinnick's \"Coming Over\" as his entrance music. Hal Sparks used several tracks off of Pinnick's Strum Sum Up CD as his musical accompaniment during his magic show performances on VH1's Celebracadabra that aired in 2008\n\nPinnick's side project, Tres Mts., with Jeff Ament of Pearl Jam and Richard Stuverud of the Fastbacks, released their album, \"Three Mountains\", through Monkeywrench Records on March 8, 2011.\nHe also sang backup on Pearl Jam's song \"W.M.A.\" during Pearl Jam's April 3, 1994 concert, which King's X opened for.\n\nOn February 12, 2013, Magna Carta released the Mike Varney-produced \"Pinnick Gales Pridgen\", featuring Eric Gales on guitar and vocals, Pinnick on bass and vocals, and Thomas Pridgen (formerly of The Mars Volta) on drums. The 13-track album features one cover song, \"Sunshine of Your Love\", originally by Cream, one short instrumental based on Ludwig van Beethoven's \"Für Elise\", and the remaining songs written by some combination of Pinnick, Gales, Pridgen and Varney. The follow-up, titled \"PGP 2\", was released on July 8, 2014.\n\nIn 2013, Pinnick collaborated with friend Robbi Robb of Tribe after Tribe to form the Mojave, CA based jam band 3rd Ear Experience. They released two albums, \"Peacock Black\" and \"Boi\", the later issued through Megaforce Records, within only months of each other. A third album, \"Incredible Good Fortune\", followed in 2014 although Pinnick did not appear on it.\n\nOn March 11, 2014, Pinnick's all-star side project KXM, featuring former Dokken guitarist George Lynch and Korn drummer Ray Luzier, released their eponymous debut album through Rat Pak Records. In May 2014, Pinnick's side project Grinder Blues with the Emmy Award-winning Bihlman Brothers signed a deal with Megaforce Records and announced an August 19, 2014 release for their debut record.\n\nPinnick is a notable user of the 12-string bass, which is a bass guitar with four sets of triple-coursed octave strings, similar to a 12-string guitar. Pinnick owns a custom made 12-string bass, made by Yamaha, which he uses in the studio and in live performances. Pinnick was endorsed by Yamaha, although he briefly switched to Dean guitars in the late 2000s. Pinnick also recently endorsed by Schecter, and used two Model-T basses in 2011 for the Live Love over Europe tour.\n\nHe used Ampeg amplifiers exclusively, but the New York-based Tech 21 released his signature bass amp head, the dUg Ultra bass 1000. He also uses a complex rig set-up including many EQs and amplifiers. Pinnick is also a user of the Line 6 POD pro, which he uses for effects. Oddly, he uses the guitar, not the bass model of the POD pro effects.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081560", "title": "County of Jaffa and Ascalon", "text": "County of Jaffa and Ascalon\n\nThe double County of Jaffa and Ascalon was one of the four major seigneuries comprising the major Crusader state of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, according to 13th-century commentator John of Ibelin.\n\nJaffa was fortified by Godfrey of Bouillon after the First Crusade in 1100, and was unsuccessfully claimed by Daimbert of Pisa, the first Latin Patriarch. It remained part of the royal domain until it was given to Hugh of Le Puiset in 1110. When Hugh II rebelled against King Fulk in 1134 the county was divided into a number of smaller holdings, and Jaffa itself became a royal domain. Soon it was designated as the apanage of Fulk's second son, Amalric. After the siege of Ascalon in 1153, Fulk's first son King Baldwin III conquered Ascalon, and it was added to the territory of his brother Amalric.\n\nIt passed in and out of direct royal control when its holders were husbands or close relatives of the then-reigning Monarch or royal heir, or its usufruct went to a member of the royal family. In that period, it usually produced income for one or several members of Amalric's first family. In 1221 it was given to Walter IV of Brienne by his uncle John of Brienne, Walter being married to a granddaughter of King Amalric II, who had held the county as successor of his brother King Guy. Around 1250 it was given to a branch of the Ibelin family. With the capture of Jaffa by Baibars in 1268, the county became titular. It was bestowed anew upon John Perez Fabrice by James II of Cyprus and Jerusalem.\n\nThe County of Jaffa and Ascalon had a number of vassals of its own:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081564", "title": "Haldensleben", "text": "Haldensleben\n\nHaldensleben is a town in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. It is the administrative seat of the Börde district.\n\nIt is situated on the Ohre river, near the confluence with its Beber tributary, and the parallel Mittelland Canal, running from the fertile Magdeburg Börde basin to the Elbe river in the east. The town centre is located approximately northwest from Magdeburg. It is connected by railway to the neighbouring towns of Magdeburg, Oebisfelde and Eilsleben.\n\nThe municipal area includes the village of Süplingen, incorporated in 2014.\n\nThe Saxon fortress of \"hahaldeslevo\" in Eastphalia was first mentioned in a 966 deed of donation issued by Emperor Otto I. The Counts of Haldensleben rose to considerable power, most notably Dietrich and William, who ruled as margraves of the Northern March. Soon after a trading place (\"Neuhaldensleben\") arose nearby, which was vested with market rights about 1150. Besieged and devastetd by the forces of Archbishop Wichmann in 1181, the Haldensleben estates belonged to the Prince-Archbishopric of Magdeburg from 1215.\n\nRebuilding of the town began in 1223, and Archbishop Albert I established a Cistercian abbey at Althaldensleben. The citizens again received market rights in 1526. The Protestant Reformation was implemented in 1541 and in 1680 the former episcopal lands were secularized as the Duchy of Magdeburg, held by the Hohenzollern rulers of Brandenburg-Prussia.\n\nNearby Hundisburg Castle was owned by the House of Alvensleben from 1452 until 1811, enlarged in baroque style, with formal gardens, by Hermann Korb from 1693 on the order of Johann Friedrich II. von Alvensleben (1657-1728), a Hanoverian minister of George I of Great Britain. It was partly destroyed by fire in 1945 and reconstructed since 1994.\nToday Haldensleben has a Protestant and a Catholic church. An old equestrian statue of Roland symbolized the rights of a medieval settlement to be accepted as a town. It is the only statue of Roland sitting on a horse in the world. Before 1938, when it merged with Althaldensleben, the town was called Neuhaldensleben.\n\nHaldensleben is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081570", "title": "Lake Awasa", "text": "Lake Awasa\n\nLake Hawassa is an endorheic basin in Sidama Region of Ethiopia, located in the Main Ethiopian Rift south of Addis Ababa. According to the \"Statistical Abstract of Ethiopia for 1967/68\", the lake is 16 km long and 9 km wide, with a surface area of 129 square kilometers. It has a maximum depth of 10 meters and is located at an elevation of 1,708 meters.\n\nBecause it is relatively accessible to scientists, Lake Hawassa is the most studied of the Rift Valley lakes in Ethiopia. According to William Taylor, a member of the African Lakes and Rivers Research Group at the University of Waterloo, Lake Hawassa is, despite its lack of an outflow, \"essentially a freshwater lake (conductivity is variable, but less than 1,000) indicating that it must have a subterranean outlet.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2081573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081573", "title": "Animals First", "text": "Animals First\n\nAnimals First was a New Zealand political party dedicated to animal rights and animal welfare. In the 1996 elections, it won 0.17% of the vote, putting it in twelfth place. In the 1999 elections, it declined slightly, winning 0.16% of the vote (fourteenth place). The party was deregistered at its own request in 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081577", "title": "List of newspapers in Iowa", "text": "List of newspapers in Iowa\n\n<includeonly>\n"}
{"id": "2081581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081581", "title": "Rally for Democracy and Unity", "text": "Rally for Democracy and Unity\n\nThe Rally for Democracy and Unity (RDU) () is a political party in Mauritania. The party was founded in 1991, and has been since led by Ahmed Ould Sidi Baba.\n\nThe party won 9.6% of the vote of 3 out of 81 seats at the 2001 parliamentary election. At the 2006 elections the party won 3 out of 95 seats.\n"}
{"id": "2081583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081583", "title": "Union for Democracy and Progress", "text": "Union for Democracy and Progress\n\nThe Union for Democracy and Progress (, UDP) is a political party in Mauritania. The UDP is led by Naha Mint Mouknass, and as of early 2008 it is the only political party in Mauritania that is headed by a woman.\n\nIt was founded on 11 June 1993 by Hamdi Ould Mouknass, who previously served as Minister of Foreign Affairs under President Moktar Ould Daddah.\n\nIn the 2001 parliamentary elections the party received 8.1% of the popular vote and won three of the 81 seats. In the 2006 parliamentary elections, it won 3 of the 95 seats, whilst in the Senate elections in 2007 it won one of the 56 seats. The party supported Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi in the March 2007 presidential election and was part of the presidential majority following his victory. However, after the formation of the government of Prime Minister Yahya Ahmed Ould El Waghef in May 2008, the party left the presidential majority in June 2008, objecting to the composition of the government. It said that, while the opposition had been brought into the government, the UDP had been marginalized; the party also said that \"the hope for change born on August 3, 2005 has been compromised\", referring to the ouster of President Maaouya Ould Sid'Ahmed Taya on that date.\n"}
{"id": "2081584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081584", "title": "Lucius Cary, 15th Viscount Falkland", "text": "Lucius Cary, 15th Viscount Falkland\n\nLucius Edward William Plantagenet Cary, 15th Viscount of Falkland (born 8 May 1935) is a British nobleman and politician.\n\nCary is the eldest of four children, and the only son of Lucius Cary, 14th Viscount of Falkland and Constance Mary Berry, daughter of Captain Edward Berry. The Viscount of Falkland is the senior viscountcy in the peerage of Scotland, created in 1620 by King James VI.\n\nCary was educated at Wellington College in Berkshire, and was formerly an officer in the Hussars.\n\nCary succeeded his father in the viscountcy in 1984 and sat in the House of Lords with the Social Democratic Party, later joining the Liberal Democrats. Following the removal of the majority of hereditary peers under the House of Lords Act 1999, he was one of the ninety-two elected to remain. In 2011 Falkland left the Liberal Democrats and now sits as a Crossbencher. He is a supporter of Humanists UK, and has been a Vice-President of the Royal Stuart Society since 2015 (his ancestors were ardent Jacobites, and he holds the title of 10th Earl of Falkland in the Jacobite Peerage).\n\nLord Falkland lives in a townhouse in Clapham, a few miles from the Palace of Westminster; however he became embroiled in the parliamentary expenses scandal in 2009, when it was brought to light that he had registered his main residence as a house in Kent belonging to his aunt-in-law, entitling him to substantial payments from the Government for travel expenses. Defending his actions, Falkland said: \"I didn't do it to make £125,000, I claimed the expenses in order to be able to meet the expenses of my life. I haven't got another income. You might say I'm an impoverished peer: my family over many hundreds of years have been noted for their poverty.\"\n\nThe Viscount married Caroline Anne Butler, daughter of Lieut-Cmdr George Butler, in 1962; they were divorced in 1990. They have four children:\n\n\nHe was married again in 1990 to Nicole Mackey, with whom he has one child:\n\n"}
{"id": "2081585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081585", "title": "Rally of Democratic Forces", "text": "Rally of Democratic Forces\n\nThe Rally of Democratic Forces (, RFD), or Assembly of Democratic Forces, is a political party in Mauritania. It is led by Ahmed Ould Daddah.\n\nIn October 2000, the Union of Democratic Forces-New Era, which was led by Daddah, was dissolved by the government for allegedly inciting violence and harming the country's interests. In its place the Rally of Democratic Forces was established, and Daddah was elected its President in January 2002.\n\nIn the parliamentary election held on October 19 and 26 October 2001, the party won 5.6% of the popular vote and 3 out of 81 seats.\n\nDaddah declared the RFD to be \"the country's biggest political force\" after the first round of the 2006 Mauritanian parliamentary election, held on 19 November. The RFD participated in this election as part of an eight party opposition alliance. It won 15 out of 95 seats in the 21 January and 4 February 2007 Senate elections 7 out of 56 seats. In the 11 March and 25 March 2007 presidential election, Daddah, the party's candidate, won 20.69% in the first round, but was defeated in the second round with 47.15%.\n\nDaddah said on May 7, 2008 that the RFD would not participate in the government of Prime Minister Yahya Ould Ahmed El Waghef, despite Waghef's consultations with opposition parties regarding the formation of a government.\n\nThe RFD supported the military coup d'état of August 6, 2008. Daddah described the coup as \"a movement to rectify the democratic process\" and alleged that the 2007 presidential election was \"marked by fraud\".\n\nThe RFD is an observer member of the Socialist International.\n"}
{"id": "2081586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081586", "title": "Action for Change", "text": "Action for Change\n\nThe Action for Change (AC) () was a political party in Mauritania. The party was led by Messaoud Ould Belkheir, and campaigned for greater rights for Mauritania's Haratin and black populations. The party was banned in January 2002.\n\nThe first election contested by the AC was the 1996 parliamentary election, with the party coming third, with 5.3% of the vote and 1 seat in parliament.\n\nThe party also went on to contest the 2001 parliamentary election, winning 5.5% of the popular vote and 4 out of 81 seats.\n\nThe party was banned in January 2002 following accusations by the government that the party threatened Mauritanian national unity and was threatening Mauritania's relations with Senegal. Communications Minister Chyakh Ould Ely accused the party of being racist and violent. The party was allowed to keep its four parliamentary seats.\n\nMessaoud Ould Belkheir, the leader of the AC strongly denied the allegations made against the party, and claimed that the party was instead being banned as part of a crackdown in dissent by the government, and also because of the parties recent electoral gains.\n"}
{"id": "2081587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081587", "title": "Union of the Forces of Progress", "text": "Union of the Forces of Progress\n\nThe Union of the Forces of Progress (\"Union des Forces du Progrès\", Ar: \"ittihad quwa al-taqaddum\", fl:\"Dental Doole Demokaraasi\", UFP) is a left leaning political party in Mauritania.\n\nThe UFP describes itself as a cross ethnic, Republican, social justice oriented party. It has made strong statements against the persecution of dark skinned Mauritanians, the continuation of slavery and unfair labor practices, and for guarantees of safety and resources for those refugees from the 1989 interethnic conflict who remain in Senegal. The UFP has also strongly condemned the involvement of the Mauritanian Army in politics, specifically the 2005 and 2008 coups. They have called upon Mauritanian political leaders to negotiate a political consensus which would define the \"rules of the game\" for Mauritanian politics, which they view as divisive, ethnically charged, and corrupt.\n\nThe party has its roots in the Kadihine (Arabic: \"toiler\", \"worker\") movement of the Mauritanian 1960s and 1970s, with its organization, the \"Parti Kadihine Mauritanien\" (PKM) working as a clandestine socialist and anti-colonial oppositional group against the single-party rule of Mokhtar Ould Daddah. The party was composed mostly of Moorish Arab Mauritanians, although it was opposed to the prevailing racial and ethno-social discrimination, and subsumed an important faction of Black African opposition politicians inside its organization. After 1969, the party mended its relations with Ould Daddah after he took several steps to the left, nationalizing the mining industry MIFERMA (today's SNIM) in Zouérat, loosening his strong ties with the former colonial power France, and took other measures to strengthen Mauritania's international anticolonial profile. The PKM then divided between a group which agreed to join Ould Daddah's ruling party, the PPM, as a leftist intra-party opposition; and another group which was more reluctant to cooperate with the authorities, and reorganized in new opposition movements, primarily the Mouvement Nationale Démocratique (MND). When Mauritania invaded Western Sahara in 1975 to establish a Greater Mauritania, in collaboration with Morocco, the Kadihines again took a strong stance against the regime, and in favor of Sahrawi self-determination and the Polisario Front (with which the UFP retains strong relations even today). After the 1978 coup d'état, the movement lost much influence, as politics moved over into the military sphere.\n\nThe modern UFP began as a faction of the Union of Democratic Forces-New Era (UFD). At an extraordinary party congress called by this faction in August 1998, it elected MND leader Mohamed Ould Maouloud as its president, and this caused a split in the party. The opposing faction, led by Ahmed Ould Daddah, was dubbed the UFD/A, while Maouloud's faction was dubbed the UFD/B. The latter faction participated in the January 1999 local election, which was boycotted by the former. In late 2000, the UFD/A was dissolved by the government, and the UFD/B changed its own name in solidarity, now calling itself the Union of the Forces of Progress.\n\nIn the parliamentary election held on 19 and 26 October 2001, the party won 3 out of 81 seats.\n\nIn the November–December 2006 parliamentary election, the UFP participated in the Coalition of the Forces of Democratic Change. The UFP won eight seats (three in the first round and five in the second round), as well as two other seats together with the Rally of Democratic Forces. On January 2, 2007, the party held a congress and designated its president, Maouloud, as its candidate for the March 2007 presidential election. In the election, Maouloud took seventh place in the first round with 4.08% of the vote. Maouloud then backed Daddah in the second round. In the 21 January and 4 February 2007 Senate elections it joined the Rally of Democratic Forces and won 1 seat.\n\nOn May 10, 2008, Maouloud announced the party's decision to participate in the government of Prime Minister Yahya Ould Ahmed El Waghef; the party was accordingly one of two opposition parties to be included in Waghef's government, the composition of which was announced on May 11. This government only survived until July 2008, however.\n\nFollowing the August 2008 coup, the UFP joined a four-party coalition, the National Front for the Defence of Democracy, which opposed the coup and demanded the restoration of President Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081588", "title": "Mauritanian Popular Front", "text": "Mauritanian Popular Front\n\nThe Popular Front (\"Front Populaire\") is a political party in Mauritania.\n\nThe party was founded in 1998 based on a platform committed to the establishment of a civil state, access of all political parties to the media, the separation of the Mauritanian state and the Democratic and Social Republican Party of President Maaouya Ould Sid'Ahmed Taya, and the creation of a national unity government chaired by the opposition. The front was initially mainly distinguished by its policy of non-participation in elections under the Taya government.\n\nParty leader Mohamed Lemine Ch'bih Ould Cheikh Melainine was arrested on 8 April 2001 along with two other party members, Mukhtar Ould Haibetna and Bouba Ould Hassan, on grounds of conspiracy to commit acts of sabotage and terrorism in Mauritania. The government alleged the trio to have been acting in collusion with the Libyan government of Muammar al-Gaddafi. The three were tried in a criminal court some 850 kilometers from Noukachott, and each received a sentence of five years imprisonment. The sentence was met with surprise from many observers, who had expected the three to be acquitted. The defense team argued that the trial was deeply flawed, and that the confessions from their clients had been obtained as a result of an interrogation during which they had been drugged by the Mauritanian police.\n\nThe party went on to contest the legislative elections in October 2001, winning one seat. Following the removal of Taya from office the party competed in the 2006 elections, winning 1 out of 95 seats.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081589", "title": "Joint Task Force Guantanamo", "text": "Joint Task Force Guantanamo\n\nJoint Task Force Guantanamo (JTF-GTMO) is a U.S. military joint task force based at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, Guantánamo Bay, Cuba on the southeastern end of the base. JTF-GTMO falls under US Southern Command. Since January 2002 the command has operated the Guantanamo Bay detention camps Camp X-Ray and its successors Camp Delta, Camp V, and Camp Echo, where detained prisoners are held who have been captured in the war in Afghanistan and elsewhere since the September 11, 2001 attacks. From the command's founding in 2002 to early 2017, the detainee population has been reduced from 779 to 41. As of May 2019, the unit is under the command of U.S. Navy Rear Admiral Timothy C. Kuehhas.\n\nIn 1992, the United States established Operation Sea Signal to prepare for a mass migration of refugees from Haiti and Cuba. In 1994, Operation Sea Signal led to the creation of Joint Task Force 160. JTF 160 was responsible for housing and processing more than 40,000 migrants awaiting repatriation or parole to the United States. Camp X-Ray was established to segregate migrants who had committed crimes, such as theft, assault and battery, prostitution and black-market activities, from other migrants and from U.S. civilians and military personnel at Guantanamo. In 1996, Operation Sea Signal came to an end and the military abandoned Camp X-Ray.\n\nIn December 2001, after the September 11 terrorist attacks and the United States intervention in Afghanistan, Joint Task Force 160 was reactivated. Camp X-Ray was prepared as a temporary location for the detention of people captured in Afghanistan who were believed to be part of the Taliban or al-Qaeda, neither of which the United States recognized as legal governments. In January 2002, the first detainees were transferred to Guantanamo Bay and housed in Camp X-Ray. The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) had its first visit to the facility six days later. The ICRC has continued quarterly visits up to 2010.\n\nIn April 2002, construction of the new 410-bed Camp Delta (Camps 1, 2, 3) was completed. The detainees were moved from Camp X-Ray to Camp Delta that month. In November 2002, Joint Task Force 160 and 170 were merged to create Joint Task Force Guantanamo.\n\nBy 2007 original Camp Delta compound was supplemented by Camps 4, 5 and 6.\n\nCamp 4, opened in February 2003, featured communal style living areas, similar to a military barracks, and was used to house \"compliant\" detainees.\n\nCamp 5, opened in May 2004, had segregated housing units (i.e. solitary cells) for detainees who are uncompliant or who pose a threat to other detainees or Joint Task Force staff members. Camp 5 was closed in 2016 when the total detainee population was reduced to 61.\n\nCamp 6, opened in November 2006, is patterned after a medium security prison with \"pods\" housing 10 to 20 detainees with individual cells but sharing a common living area. Camp 6 houses the \"general population\".\n\nAs of late 2016, almost all detainees were housed in Camp 6.\n\nThe status of these detainees is disputed. The United States government defines them as enemy combatants, claiming their status was not that of a prisoner of war as recognized under the Geneva Conventions (due to not being affiliated with any government, being alleged members of Al Qaida or groups affiliated with them).\n\nIn \"Rasul v Bush\" (2004), the Supreme Court held that the detainees had the right to counsel and to challenge their detentions at an impartial tribunal, according to \"habeas corpus\". On June 29, 2006, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\" that they had the minimal protection of in that detainees must be housed and treated humanely, and that they had the right to an impartial tribunal to hear charges against them. It said the military tribunals as established by the Dept. of Defense did not have sufficient authority, and Congress needed to authorize any system outside the established US civil and military justice systems.\nIn \"Boumediene v. Bush\" (2008), the Supreme Court held that the detainees' right to \"habeas corpus\" could not be taken away by the Military Commission Act of 2006, which they ruled was unconstitutional. In addition, the Supreme Court held that detainees had the right to access federal courts to hear their \"habeas corpus\" challenges. Some of the cases are proceeding through the federal court system.\n\nIn February 2002, Joint Task Force 170 was created as the intelligence task force to work side by side with Joint Task Force 160. At a later date, JTF 170 was re-designated as the Joint Intelligence Group and was assigned as a subordinate element of Joint Task Force Guantanamo. The other subordinate elements of JTF GTMO are the Joint Detention Group and the Joint Medical Group.\n\nThe Joint Detention Group is one of the components of the Task Force. It is the organization assigned to guarding the captives, and maintaining camp security.\nThe guards within the Joint Detention Group come from the United States Army, United States Navy, and other United States Armed Services.\n\nIn 2009, guards outnumbered prisoners in Guantanamo by more than five to one.\n\nThe officers commanding the Joint Detention Group, also known as the warden, have included:\n\nEnlisted personnel live in pre-fabicated quarters, similar to shipping containers. Each prefab unit houses four to six personnel. Each prefab unit ships with a toilet and sink, but no internal partitions. Occupants are allowed to erect curtains to make temporary partitions, for privacy. Occupants share communal showers, shared between prefab quarters.\n\nOfficers and senior non-commissioned officers typically share cottages left over from family residences that were constructed when the base had a larger permanent population. Four occupants share a two-bedroom cottage.\n\nAccording to Commander Daniel Jones, JTF-GTMO's Staff Judge Advocate:\n\nThe chow here is probably the best I've had and a mainstay of each day's activities. A \"surf and turf\" and special birthday meal are served at least once a month. By the end of your tour in GTMO you'll either weigh 300 pounds or be able to bench press 300 pounds. Nevertheless, you can look forward to a farewell BBQ and presentation of the highly coveted GTMO Bar Association Certificate.\n\nThe past commanders of JTF-GTMO:\n\nJoint Task Force Guantánamo's motto is \"Honor Bound to Defend Freedom\" and it was established during the command of Army Maj. Gen. Geoffrey Miller.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081592", "title": "Union of Democratic Forces (Mauritania)", "text": "Union of Democratic Forces (Mauritania)\n\nThe Union of Democratic Forces-New Era (\"Union des Forces Démocratiques-Ère Nouvelle\") was a political party in Mauritania, founded in 1991. The secretary-general of the party was Ahmed Ould Daddah. In February 1997 the five-party Front of Opposition Parties (FPO), including the UFD-EN, was formed; it boycotted the December 1997 presidential election, in which President Maaouya Ould Sid'Ahmed Taya was easily re-elected. \n\nThe party was weakened by a number of splits during its existence. In 1998, a faction of the party led by Mohamed Ould Maouloud, which was known as the UFD/B and later became the Union of the Forces of Progress, split from the faction under Daddah's leadership. The UFD-EN under Daddah's leadership boycotted the January 1999 local election, in which the faction under Maouloud participated.\n\nIn October 2000, the UFD-EN was dissolved by the government, which alleged that it incited violence and harmed national interests. A successor party, the Rally of Democratic Forces (RFD), was subsequently established, with Daddah as its president.\n"}
{"id": "2081593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081593", "title": "The Citadel (novel)", "text": "The Citadel (novel)\n\nThe Citadel is a novel by A. J. Cronin, first published in 1937, which was groundbreaking in its treatment of the contentious theme of medical ethics. It has been credited with laying the foundation in Great Britain for the introduction of the NHS a decade later. In the United States, it won the National Book Award for 1937 novels, voted by members of the American Booksellers Association.\n\nFor his fifth book, Dr. Cronin drew on his experiences practising medicine in the coal mining communities of the South Wales Valleys, as he had for \"The Stars Look Down\" two years earlier. Specifically, he had researched and reported on the correlation between coal dust inhalation and lung disease in the town of Tredegar. He had also worked as a doctor for the Tredegar Medical Aid Society at the Cottage Hospital, which served as the model for the National Health Service.\n\nCronin once stated in an interview, \"I have written in \"The Citadel\" all I feel about the medical profession, its injustices, its hide-bound unscientific stubbornness, its humbug ... The horrors and inequities detailed in the story I have personally witnessed. This is not an attack against individuals, but against a system.\"\n\nIn October 1924, Andrew Manson, an idealistic, newly qualified doctor, arrives from Scotland to work as assistant to Doctor Page in the small (fictitious) Welsh mining town of Drineffy (Blaenelly is the name given in some adaptations). He quickly realises that Page is unwell and disabled and that he has to do all the work for a meagre wage. Shocked by the unsanitary conditions he discovers, Manson works to improve matters and receives the support of Dr Philip Denny, a cynical semi-alcoholic who, Manson finds out in due course, took a post as an assistant doctor after having fallen from grace as a surgeon. Resigning, he obtains a post as assistant in a miners' medical aid scheme in 'Aberalaw', a neighbouring coal mining town in the South Wales coalfield. On the strength of this job, Manson marries Christine Barlow, a junior school teacher.\n\nChristine helps her husband with his silicosis research. Eager to improve the lives of his patients, mainly coal miners, Manson dedicates many hours to research in his chosen field of lung disease. He studies for, and is granted, the MRCP, and when his research is published, an MD. The research gains him a post with the 'Mines Fatigue Board' in London, but he resigns after six months to set up a private practice.\n\nSeduced by the thought of easy money from wealthy clients rather than the principles he started out with, Manson becomes involved with pampered private patients and fashionable surgeons and drifts away from his wife. A patient dies because of a surgeon's ineptitude, and the incident causes Manson to abandon his practice and return to his principles. He and his wife repair their damaged relationship, but then she is run over by a bus and killed.\n\nSince Manson has accused the incompetent surgeon of murder, he is vindictively reported to the General Medical Council for having worked with an American tuberculosis specialist, Richard Stillman, who does not have a medical degree, even though the patient had been successfully treated at his clinic. Stillman's treatment, that of pneumothorax involved collapsing an affected lung with nitrogen, and was not universally accepted at the time.\n\nDespite his lawyer's gloomy prognosis, Manson forcefully justifies his actions during the hearing and is not struck off the medical register.\n\nThe novel is of interest because of its portrayal of a voluntary contribution medical association which is based (not entirely uncritically) on the Tredegar Medical Aid Society for which Cronin worked for a time in the 1920s, and which in due course became the inspiration for the National Health Service as established under Aneurin Bevan.\n\nThe Citadel was also extremely popular in foreign translation, being sold in book shops in the Third Reich as late as 1944. Scholar and Holocaust survivor Victor Klemperer noted “English novels are banned of course; but there are books by A.J. Cronin in every shop window: he’s Scottish and exposes shortcomings of social and public services in England.” Post war, it also proved popular in Communist bloc countries, where Cronin was one of the few contemporary British authors to be published.\n\nThe novel was made into a 1938 film with Robert Donat, Rosalind Russell, Ralph Richardson and Rex Harrison, and television versions include one American (1960), two British (1960 & 1983), and two Italian (1964 & 2003) adaptations of the novel. There are also three film adaptations of the novel in Indian languages: \"Tere Mere Sapne\" (1971) in Hindi, \"Jiban Saikate\" (1972) in Bengali and \"Madhura Swapnam\" (1982) in Telugu. In 2017 an adaptation for radio by Christopher Reason was featured as the BBC Radio 4 15 minute drama. \n\n"}
{"id": "2081599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081599", "title": "Moral high ground", "text": "Moral high ground\n\nThe moral high ground, in ethical or political parlance, refers to the status of being respected for remaining moral, and adhering to and upholding a universally recognized standard of justice or goodness.\n\nHolding the moral high ground can be used to legitimize political movements, notably nonviolent resistance, especially in the face of violent opposition, and has been used by civil disobedience movements around the world to garner sympathy and support from society.\n\nSimilarly, 21st century states may refrain from declaring war in order to retain the moral high ground – though the cynic will observe that realpolitik still leads to wars being \"fought\", only without declarations.\n\nEconomist and social critic Robert H. Frank challenged the idea that prosocial behavior was necessarily deleterious in business in his book \"What Price the Moral High Ground?\"\n\nHe argued that socially responsible firms often reap unexpected benefits even in highly competitive environments, because their commitment to principle makes them more attractive as partners to do business with.\n\nIn everyday use a person may take the perspective of the 'moral high ground' in order to produce a critique of something, or merely to win an argument. This perspective is sometimes associated to snobbery but may also be a legitimate way of taking up a stance.\n\nSocial sciences or philosophies are sometimes accused of taking the 'moral high ground' because they are often inherently interested in the project of human freedom and justice. The traditional project of education itself may be seen as defending a type of moral high ground from popular culture, perhaps by using critical pedagogy: its proponents may themselves be accused (rightly or wrongly) of seeking a false and unjustified sense of superiority thereby.\n\nRobert Lowell took the moral high ground, not once, but twice, with separate American presidents, in protesting US militarism.\n\nPeter Mandelson considered that Tony Blair was \"good at taking the high ground and throwing himself off it\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2081603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081603", "title": "Mattapan station", "text": "Mattapan station\n\nMattapan is an MBTA transit station in Boston, Massachusetts. It is the southern terminus of the Ashmont–Mattapan High Speed Line, part of the Red Line, and is also an important MBTA Bus transfer station, with ten routes terminating there. It is located at Mattapan Square in the Mattapan neighborhood. At the station, trolleys use a balloon loop to reverse direction back to Ashmont station. Mattapan station is fully accessible, with mini-high platforms for boarding trolleys.\n\nThe Ashmont–Mattapan Line follows the right-of-way of the Dorchester and Milton Branch Railroad, which opened to Mattapan in December 1847. The line was converted to an interurban-style trolley line in the 1920s, with the final section to Mattapan opening on December 21, 1929. The stone depot building, now a restaurant, stands adjacent in Mattapan Square.\n\nOn May 5, 2006, the MBTA awarded a $6.2 million contract to replace the 1929-built station. The MBTA closed the line on June 24 to allow a new viaduct to be constructed at Ashmont station. During the closure, all stations on the line were modernized and (except for Valley Road) made handicapped accessible. The decrepit 1929-built shelter and old platforms were replaced by modern platforms with canopies; a new building for MBTA police and bus operations with a community room was built. Trolley service resumed on December 22, 2007.\n\nIn 2014, the MBTA proposed to make $500,000 in additional renovations to the station. These included upgraded shelters and heating in passenger waiting areas, pedestrian improvements, improved signage, and bicycle storage.\n\nAs part of the first round of modernization, the MBTA began planning for mixed-use transit-oriented development (TOD) to be built on the underused station parking lot. The planned development was not built, even after a second request for proposals was issued in 2012.\n\nIn July 2014, a local charter school announced plans to build a new building on the site, despite calls for a third RFP to be issued to attract TOD instead. In January 2015, after opposition from local officials about the school's $1.5 million offer, the MBTA announced it would instead issue a third RFP that March. The third RFP was issued in November 2015.\n\nIn July 2016, the MBTA Fiscal and Management Control Board selected the winner from two proposals for the property. The winning bidder, POAH/Nuestra, will pay the MBTA $4.89 million over the first 20 years of a 99-year lease of the site, upon which they will build 135 rental units and of ground-floor retail. 50 parking spaces will be reserved for MBTA riders.\n\nMattapan serves as a major transfer station for MBTA Bus operations, with nine routes converging on Mattapan Square from six directions. Six routes use the busway located on the north side of the station, while routes 28, 29, and 31 use a bus loop on the south side.\n\nMattapan is also the origin point for the Mattapan - route. The 191 is a single daily early-morning round trip, intended for use by MBTA employees but open to the general public.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081613", "title": "Lacrymatory", "text": "Lacrymatory\n\nA lacrymatory or lachrymatory (from the latin, \"lacrima\", a tear) is a small vessel of terracotta or, more frequently, of glass, found in Roman and late Greek tombs, and supposed to have been bottles into which mourners dropped their tears. They contained unguents, and the finding of so many of these vessels in tombs is due to the use of unguents at funeral ceremonies. They are shaped like a spindle, or a flask with a long small neck and a body in the form of a bulb.\n\nThe term \"lacrimarium\" is deceptive; there is no evidence from the ancient world to suggest the use of these glass or ceramic vessels as 'tear-catchers'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081628", "title": "Mary Blair", "text": "Mary Blair\n\nMary Blair (born Mary Browne Robinson; October 21, 1911 – July 26, 1978) was an American artist, animator, and designer. She was prominent in producing art and animation for The Walt Disney Company, drawing concept art for such films as \"Alice in Wonderland\", \"Peter Pan\", \"Song of the South\" and \"Cinderella\". Blair also created character designs for enduring attractions such as Disneyland's It's a Small World, the fiesta scene in El Rio del Tiempo in the Mexico pavilion in Epcot's World Showcase, and an enormous mosaic inside Disney's Contemporary Resort. Several of her illustrated children's books from the 1950s remain in print, such as \"I Can Fly\" by Ruth Krauss. Blair was inducted into the group of Disney Legends in 1991. \n\nBorn on October 21, 1911, in McAlester, Oklahoma, Mary Browne Robinson moved to Texas while still a small child, and later to the city of Morgan Hill, California in the early 20s. After graduating from San Jose State University which she attended from 1929 to 1931, Mary won a scholarship to the Chouinard Art Institute in Los Angeles, where artists such as Pruett Carter, Morgan Russell and Lawrence Murphy were among the teachers. She graduated from Chouinard in 1933. In 1934 shortly after college, she married another artist, Lee Everett Blair (October 1, 1911 – April 19, 1993). She was the sister-in-law of animator Preston Blair (1908–1995). Along with her husband Lee, she became a member of the California School of Watercolor and quickly became known for being an imaginative colorist and designer.\nBlair's first professional job in the animation industry was as an animator with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. She would soon leave and join Lee Blair at the Ub Iwerks studio before moving to Disney. In the 1930s she was also a part of the innovative California Water-Color Society\n\nBlair joined Walt Disney Animation Studios—initially with some reluctance— in 1940, and worked briefly on art for \"Dumbo\", an early version of \"Lady and the Tramp\", and a second version of \"Fantasia\" titled \"Baby Ballet\" which was not released until the late 1990s.\n\nAfter leaving the studio for a short time in 1941, Blair travelled to various South American countries with Walt Disney, Lillian Disney and other artists on a research tour. as part of the Good Neighbor policy of the President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Her watercolors impressed Disney, who appointed her as an art supervisor for the animated feature films \"Saludos Amigos\" and \"The Three Caballeros\".\nBlair first began animation and color design on major films in 1943 and would continue to work on animated films for Disney for a full decade. Her work with animation did not end there however as after that, she worked on several package films, excluding \"Fun and Fancy Free\", and on two partially animated features—\"Song of the South\" and \"So Dear to My Heart\". The early 1950s were a busy time for the Disney studio, with an animated feature released nearly every year. Mary Blair was credited with color styling on \"Cinderella\" (1950), \"Alice in Wonderland\" (1951) and \"Peter Pan\" (1953), and the artistic influence of her concept art is strongly felt in those films, as well as in several animated shorts, including \"Susie the Little Blue Coupe\" and \"The Little House\", she designed during that period.\nAfter the completion of \"Peter Pan\", Blair resigned from Disney and worked as a freelance graphic designer and illustrator, creating advertising campaigns for companies such as Nabisco, Pepsodent, Maxwell House, Beatrice Foods and others. She also illustrated several Little Golden Books for publisher Simon & Schuster, some of which remain in print today, and she also designed Christmas and Easter sets for Radio City Music Hall. Blair not only worked in graphic design and animation but also as a designer for Bonwit Teller and created theatrical sets.\n\nAt the request of Walt Disney, who regarded highly her innate sense of color styling, Blair began work on Disney's new attraction, \"It's a Small World\". Originally a Pepsi-Cola-sponsored pavilion benefiting UNICEF at the 1964 New York World's Fair, the attraction moved to Disneyland after the Fair closed and was later replicated at the Magic Kingdom in Walt Disney World Resort as well as Tokyo Disneyland, Disneyland Paris and Hong Kong Disneyland.\nBlair created murals that would be showcased in Disney parks, hotels and other Disney attractions from California to Florida. These murals were not only painted but some would be tile decor. \n\nIn 1966, philanthropist Dr. Jules Stein hired Walt Disney to create a ceramic mural for his newly opened Eye Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles. Mary Blair designed the mural for Dr. Stein's Pediatric Surgery waiting room. The theme Walt chose for the mural was that of \"It's a Small World\" attraction designed by Blair.\n\nIn 1967, Blair created mural art for the Tomorrowland Promenade. Two similar tile murals flanked the entrance corridor. The mural over Adventure Thru Inner Space was covered over in 1987 with the opening of Star Tours, while the other remained in place until 1998 when the Circle-Vision 360° was replaced by Rocket Rods and a new mural was designed to reflect the new theme. Her design of a mural remains a focal point of the Disney's Contemporary Resort hotel at Walt Disney World, which was completed for the resort's opening in 1971.\n\nMary Blair would also go on to make sets of Walt Disney note cards for Hallmark. In 1968, Blair was credited as color designer on the film version of \"How To Succeed In Business Without Really Trying\". Blair would eventually move to Washington for Lee Blair's military career and then return to her in home studio located in Long Island, New York.\n\nFilms that Mary Blair worked on include:\nBlair was also a writer for:\n\nMary Blair moved back to California and died of a cerebral hemorrhage in Soquel, California on July 26, 1978. She died of a cerebral hemorrhage likely brought on by acute alcoholism.\n\nIn 1991 Mary was honored as a Disney Legend. Also posthumously, she received the Winsor McCay Award from ASIFA-Hollywood in 1996 along with two other Disney animators.\n\nWhile the fine art she created outside of her association with Disney and her work as an illustrator is not widely known, Blair's bold and ground-breaking color design still inspires many of today's contemporary designers and animators. A Google doodle was created on Friday, October 21, 2011, to commemorate the centennial of her birth. The Doodle featured an image of an illustrator as Mary might have drawn herself, surrounded by the simple patterns and shapes that made up her familiar cartoon world. Simon & Schuster published \"Pocket Full of Colors\", a picture book biography about Mary Blair, in August 2017. The book is written by Amy Guglielmo and Jacqueline Tourville, and illustrated by Brigette Baranger, who once worked as an artist at Disney.\n\nMary Blair has been credited with introducing modernist art styles to Walt Disney and his studio by using primary colors to form intense contrast and colors that are unnatural to the image they are depicting.\n\nBlair’s artwork was exhibited in \"The Colors of Mary Blair\" at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Tokyo, July 2009. From March 13 to September 7, 2014, the \"Magic, Color, Flair: The World of Mary Blair\" exhibition was on display at the Walt Disney Family Museum in San Francisco Presidio, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081631", "title": "New American Library", "text": "New American Library\n\nThe New American Library (NAL) is an American publisher based in New York, founded in 1948. Its initial focus was affordable paperback reprints of classics and scholarly works as well as popular and pulp fiction, but it now publishes trade and hardcover titles. It is currently an imprint of Penguin Random House; it was announced in 2015 that the imprint would publish only nonfiction titles.\n\nNew American Library (NAL) began life as Penguin U.S.A. and as part of Penguin Books of England. Because of complexities of exchange control and import and export regulations—Penguin made the decision to terminate the association and the New American Library of World Literature was founded in 1948 by Victor Weybright and Kurt Enoch (formally head of Albatross Books).\n\nEnoch served as president of New American Library from 1947-1965. He later served as head of Book Publishing at Times Mirror and then stepped down to Vice-President when John P. R. Budlong became president of New American Library in 1965.\n\nNAL's productions were not limited to softbound reprints. Original works of mystery, romance, and adventure proved to be profitable and popular. In 1963 the company began publishing original publications in hardback format, such as the immensely popular James Bond \"007\" series written by Ian Fleming. NAL also published new \"quality\" paperback editions of classic works — for example, a Shakespeare series — which featured renowned scholars, editors, and translators. Many of those editions were oriented toward a high school and college readership. Those paperbound books included subjects in the humanities, the arts, and the sciences. \n\nNAL also published at least two notable \"magazines in book form\": \"New World Writing\" in the 1950s and early 1960s, and \"New American Review\" in the latter 1960s and early 1970s (which then moved on to other publishers as \"American Review\").\n\nNAL enjoyed great success: by 1965, its Mentor and Signet books annually sold over 50 million volumes. In 1956 NAL reported that \"over 3 million copies\" of the Signet Books edition of \"From Here to Eternity\" had been sold.\n\nThe McCarthy era of the 1950s is notorious for its attacks upon communism and communistic influences in American life, and the object of federal investigations and trials was to eliminate this perceived threat and extinguish any and all communistic elements. NAL became involved with the censorship trials when certain books were deemed inflammatory and subsequently banned. Victor Weybright was asked to testify before a 1952 House Committee that examined pornography. Rather than accept government restrictions, Weybright endorsed a self-regulated censorship policy on the part of publishing companies. Weybright commented thus:\n\nI pointed out with some justification, but certainly not as my basic argument, that the Mentor list was essential as part of the character and prestige of our company and an indispensable exhibit when our more daring fiction — by Faulkner, Farrell, and Caldwell — was attacked by the censors.New York University Library received the NAL archive as a gift from the NAL in the spring of 1965.\n\nNAL witnessed several changes in ownership beginning in the 1960s. In 1960 Times Mirror of Los Angeles bought NAL; however, NAL continued to operate autonomously within the Mirror Company and management remained unchanged. In 1983 Odyssey Partners and Ira J. Hechler bought NAL from the Times Mirror Company for over $50 million. At the time of the sale New American Library had over 1 billion paperback books in print.\n\nIn 1985 New American Library acquired E.P. Dutton, an independent hardcover and trade publisher. During this period there was pressure for paperback publishers to add hardcover divisions. NAL had started publishing hardcovers in 1980 with mixed success and determined that Dutton would give them an edge in that space.\n\nIn 1987, the NAL was reintegrated into the Penguin Publishing Company. Penguin had been purchased by Pearson PLC in 1970.\n\nIn 2013, Pearson PLC merged Penguin with Bertelsmann owned Random House to form Penguin Random House. New American Library is currently part of the Penguin Publishing Group, where it is a sister imprint to the Berkley Publishing Group. In June 2015 it was announced by Penguin that starting in fall of 2016, Berkley would publish fiction titles while New American library would publish only non-fiction titles. According to Berkley/NAL Publishing Group president Leslie Gelbman this \"will delineate the two publishing lines and sharpen their publishing identities.\"\n\nImprints past and present have included the following:\n\nAt the time that they broke away from Penguin Books, Signet and Mentor correlated to Penguin's original series of Penguin and Pelican.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081636", "title": "Glasgow Science Centre", "text": "Glasgow Science Centre\n\nGlasgow Science Centre is a visitor attraction located in the Clyde Waterfront Regeneration area on the south bank of the River Clyde in Glasgow, Scotland. Queen Elizabeth II opened Glasgow Science Centre on 5 July 2001. It is one of Scotland's most popular paid-for visitor attractions. It is a purpose-built science centre composed of three principal buildings: Science Mall, Glasgow Tower and an IMAX cinema. It is a registered charity under Scottish law.\n\nThe Scottish tourist board, VisitScotland, awarded Glasgow Science Centre a five star rating in the visitor attraction category. \n\nAs well as its main location, Glasgow Science Centre also manages the visitor centre at Whitelee Wind Farm, which opened to the public in 2009.\n\nThe largest of the three main, titanium-clad buildings takes a crescent shape structure and houses a Science Mall. In architectural terms it represents the canted hull of a ship, a reference to the adjacent 'canting basin', where vessels were brought to have the marine growth removed from their hulls. Internally, there are three floors of over 250 science-learning exhibits. As is usual for science centres, the exhibits aim to encourage interaction, and can be used or played with as part of the informal learning experience the centre aims to deliver. The building was designed by BDP.\n\nOn Floor 1, amongst the many interactive exhibits that demonstrate scientific principles, visitors can access a Science Show Theatre and the Glasgow Science Centre Planetarium. The planetarium contains a Zeiss optical-mechanical projector that projects images of the night sky onto a 15m diameter dome. There is an area specifically aimed at young children, called The Big Explorer.\n\nOn Floor 2, visitors can explore opportunities in STEM careers in the My World of Work Live interactive exhibition space. There is also The Lab, primarily used as an educational workshop space.\n\nFloor 3 was refurbished in 2012 and reopened to the public on 28 March 2013. It now houses an interactive exhibition about human health and wellbeing in the 21st century, called BodyWorks. Visitors are invited to consider their bodies, health and lifestyle from a new perspective through 115 interactive exhibits, research capsules and live laboratory experiences.\n\nThe Ground Floor of the Science Mall contains the ticket desk, cafes, gift shop, and a cloakroom. There are a number of flexible room spaces on the Ground Floor that are used for a variety of educational and corporate purposes: an education space called The Egg; a lecture-theatre space called The Auditorium; and the Clyde Suite, a multi-purpose function space. Access to Glasgow Tower for the public is also via the Ground Floor.\n\nThe Glasgow Tower was designed to be the tallest freely-rotating tower in the world. It missed its opening date in 2001 and was plagued by problems since then. It has been closed for over 80% of its life, and was closed from August 2010 until July 2014.\n\nThe IMAX cinema was the first IMAX cinema to be built in Scotland. The single auditorium seats 370 in front of a rectangular screen measuring by and has the capability to show 3D films as well as standard 2D films in IMAX format. It opened to the public in October 2000, and premiered the first film, entitled \"Dolphins\", several months prior to the opening of the two other buildings. On 6 September 2013, Cineworld agreed to have a look\n\nOpened to the public in June 2001, Glasgow Science Centre is part of the ongoing redevelopment of Pacific Quay, an area which was once a cargo port known as Prince's Dock. The redevelopment started with the Glasgow Garden Festival in 1988. As with the other National Garden Festivals, the Glasgow site was intended to be sold off for housing development, but due to a housing slump in 1987, the developers were unable to develop the land as they intended, and the majority of the site remained derelict for years. Parts were finally redeveloped for the Science Centre and also Pacific Quay, including new headquarters for BBC Scotland and Scottish Television, opened in 2007. The Clydesdale Bank Tower was dismantled and re-erected in Rhyl in North Wales, however its spiritual successor came in the form of the Glasgow Tower as part of Science Centre complex, which stands on approximately the same spot.\n\nThe architects of the Glasgow Science Centre were Building Design Partnership, however the Glasgow Tower was originally designed by the architect Richard Horden with engineering design by Buro Happold. It was built at a cost of around £75 million, including £10 million for the Glasgow Tower, with over £37 million coming from the Millennium Commission.\n\nIn June 2004, it was announced that about a fifth of the workforce were to be made redundant following the creation of a funding deal with the Scottish Executive. In June 2008, the leader of the Scottish Liberal Democrats, Nicol Stephen, stated that Glasgow Science Centre was facing a 40% cut in government funding. Prime Minister Gordon Brown commented on this issue during Prime Minister's Questions saying, \"It's unfortunate in Glasgow that as a result of the SNP, funding has been cut, and they will live to regret that\". Although funding for the Scottish Science Centres as a whole has actually increased, it is now being split between four centres using a formula based on visitor numbers, and Glasgow is the only centre to face a reduction in budget. This led to the announcement in July 2008 that 28 full-time jobs were to be cut as a direct consequence of the cuts \"in order to secure Glasgow Science Centre's future\", according to the Chief Executive, Kirk Ramsay.\n\nGlasgow Science Centre is located in the Pacific Quay area, and as such, is surrounded by the media centres that form the Digital Media Quarter, a Scottish Enterprise development initiative, With the opening of the new STV headquarters in June 2006 and the beginning of broadcast programming from BBC Pacific Quay in the summer of 2004, it can be expected that more programming will be filmed in the area.\n\nIn the CBeebies television programme \"Nina and the Neurons\", the title character Nina is a neuroscientist who works at Glasgow Science Centre. In reality, Nina is played by the actress Katrina Bryan who is not a staff member at Glasgow Science Centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081637", "title": "Awasa", "text": "Awasa\n\nAwassa (, also spelled Awasa or Hawassa) is a city in Ethiopia, on the shores of Lake Awasa in the Great Rift Valley. It is located south of Addis Ababa via Bishoftu, east of Sodo, and north of Dilla. The town serves as the capital of the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples' Region, and is a special zone of this region. It lies on the Trans-African Highway 4 Cairo-Cape Town, and has a latitude and longitude of and an elevation of above sea level. Its name comes from a Sidamic word meaning \"wide body of water\".\n\nAwasa was capital of the former Sidamo Province from about 1978 until the province was abolished with the adoption of the 1995 Constitution. This city is home to Hawassa University (which includes Wondo Genet College of Forestry and Natural Resources, an Agricultural College, the Main Campus, and a Health Sciences College), Awasa Adventist College, and a major market. The city is served by Awasa Airport (ICAO code HALA, IATA AWA), opened in 1988. Postal service is provided by the main branch; electricity and telephone service are also available. Important local attractions include the St. Gabriel Church and the Awassa Kenema Stadium. Fishing is a major local industry.\n\nIn September 1994 alone, 194 members of the Sidama Liberation Movement (commonly known as SLM1 to distinguish it from the pro-government SLM2) were arrested and held in Awasa prison. The chairman of SLM1, Woldeamanuel Dubale, had fled to the United Kingdom after an unsuccessful attempt in 1992 to assassinate him.\n\nThe \"Addis Tribune\" reported 31 May 2002 that government security forces in Awasa on Friday, 24 March, killed 38 farmers who were attempting to demonstrate against the government decided to move the capital of the Sidama Zone from Awasa and make it a chartered city, similar to Dire Dawa. Three thousand demonstrators of the Sidama people, the ethnic group that so far had control of the regional capital, had taken to the streets when police declared their demonstration illegal and opened fire. The regional government recently announced their decision to move the administrative center to Aleta Wendo. Human Rights Watch had documented the deaths of 25 protesters, 12 of whom were children, and identified 26 more injured. These deaths came shortly after police shootings in Shambu, Ambo, and other towns in Oromia, resulting in five acknowledged student deaths. Rapid deployment forces of the federal and regional police also killed two at a meeting in Seraro the previous year.\n\nBased on the 2007 Census conducted by the Central Statistical Agency of Ethiopia, this zone has a total population of 258,808, of whom 133,123 are men and 125,685 women. While 157,879 or 61% are living in the city of Awassa, the rest of the population of this zone is living in surrounding rural kebeles. A total of 61,279 households were counted in this zone, which results in an average of 4.22 persons to a household, and 57,469 housing units. In 2016, a new Industrial Park was built in Awassa to accommodate 60,000 jobs at a (1.3 km²) or 321-acre site.\n\nThe five largest ethnic groups reported in Awasa were the Amhara (17.43%), the Sidama (48.67%), the Welayta (13.9%), the Oromo (5.21%), and the Gurage (2.33%); all other ethnic groups made up 12.46% of the population. Amharic is spoken as a first language by 47.97% of the inhabitants, 21.01% speak Sidamo, 9.58% speak Welayta, and 2.07% Oromiffa; the remaining 9.37% spoke all other primary languages reported.\n\nThe 1994 census reported this town had a total population of 69,169 of whom 35,029 were men and 34,140 were women.\n\nAwassa Industrial Park (HIP), situated on the outskirts of a city flanked by a picturesque Rift Valley lake. The park that got 18 leading global apparel and textile companies by the end of 2017 is inaugurated by Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn on 20 June 2017. Construction of the park is led by Industrial Parks Development Corporation (IPDC), which is chaired by Arkebe Oqubay. The park is the first in its kind in the country, consumed more than US$250 million and built in a time of less than one year. The park is implementing Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) that enables to recycle 90 percent of sewerage disposal water and fulfills international standards. Covering an area of , of which is factory shed build-up area, the park have additional area allocated for shared facilities.\n59.71% of the population said they were Protestants, 26.99% practiced Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity, 8.14% were Muslim and 3.78% embraced Catholicism.\nThe Latin Catholic minority is pastorally served by the missionary Apostolic Vicariate of Awasa, which has its Cathedral of Kidane-Meheret here.\n\nAwassa has a tropical savanna climate (Köppen \"Aw\") though it borders on a subtropical highland climate. There are two seasons: a lengthy though not intense wet season from March to October and a short dry season from November to February. The extra cloudiness of the wet season is sufficient to make it substantially cooler than the dry season despite a higher sun angle; however, the coolest morning temperatures, often close to freezing, occur during the dry season.\nFootball (soccer) and swimming are the most played games in Awassa, but other sports like basketball and skateboarding are becoming popular among the youth. Biking and running competitions are occasionally held on the main streets of the town. Awassa City S.C. (Amharic: አዋሳ ከተማ) is an Ethiopian football club based in Hawassa, and the club is the first to win the Ethiopian Premier League from outside of Addis Ababa, the capital. In addition to winning the league twice, the club took part twice in CAF Champions League.\n\nHawassa University, established in 1999 through the merger of a number of higher education institutions, is based in the city. Info link College is the first private engineering college found in Awassa City. \nAfrica Beza College campus is also in the city. Hawassa University is the first university in Ethiopia to offer a Hotel Management degree program.\n"}
{"id": "2081639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081639", "title": "Redlands East Valley High School", "text": "Redlands East Valley High School\n\nRedlands East Valley High School is a public English medium co-educational high school in Redlands, California, United States, near the San Bernardino Mountains. The school opened in the 1997-1998 school year as part of the Redlands Unified School District.\n\nRedlands East Valley is a comprehensive high school located on a sloping site, designed to house 2,500 students. An element in the design was a focus on the media center and its application of technology. The majority of the building exteriors are built with concrete masonry, exposed structural steel, glass, and metal roofs. The school colors and mascot were chosen to contrast cross-town rival Redlands High School, an example being how Redlands East Valley has a Wildcat and Redlands High has a Terrier.\n\nThe school cost US$35,000,000 (41 million 1995) to build and was completed in September, 1997. The roof of the Media Center Library was designed to look like an opened book. The performing arts building was designed to look like a piano, complete with black and white tiles on the floor in the piano lab. The Performing Arts Theater is named in honor of Harry Blackstone Jr., a stage magician who lived in Redlands. The school offers the Advanced Placement program.\n\nThe Redlands East Valley Wildcats play in the Citrus Belt League. Under then head coach Kurt Bruich, the football team has at one point been positioned #2 in the state and #17 in the nation, and has gone to state championship as well. With REV's victory over the Citrus Hill Hawks on November 28, 2014, the school became the first in the district since 1979 to reach the CIF finals. On December 5, 2014, Redlands East Valley football won their first CIF championship and two weeks after, the school won their first state championship, defeating Clayton Valley Charter High School in the Division II championship.\n\nThe REV wrestling team was the first boys team in school history to win a CIF title as well as the first team to ever win an individual state title. In 2010 the boys wrestling team became REV's first boys CIF champions. In 2011 Redlands East Valley Wrestler Chris Mecate became the school's first ever individual CIF state champion. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081640", "title": "Twisted Metal: Head-On", "text": "Twisted Metal: Head-On\n\nTwisted Metal: Head-On is a vehicular combat video game developed by Incognito Entertainment and released by Sony Computer Entertainment on March 24, 2005 for the PlayStation Portable and February 5, 2008 for the PlayStation 2. \"Head-On\" was the sixth game released in the \"Twisted Metal\" series, and the first game in the series to ship fully online-enabled.\n\n\"Head-On\" is a direct sequel to \"Twisted Metal 2\", ignoring the events of \"Twisted Metal III\" and \"Twisted Metal 4\". Akin to other games in the series, \"Head-On\" revolves around the same theme of a man named Calypso holding a vehicular combat tournament called \"Twisted Metal\" with the promise of granting the winner whatever they ask for. In 2006, \"Twisted Metal: Head-On\" was one of the first games in the PSP Greatest Hits line in the U.S.\n\nIn 2007, it was announced by David Jaffe that \"Twisted Metal: Head-On\" was to be ported to PlayStation 2 and was released on February 5, 2008. The game was developed by Jaffe's newly formed studio Eat Sleep Play and was retitled Twisted Metal Head-On: Extra Twisted Edition. It was never released outside of North America, and only in NTSC format.\n\nIt contains extra features and bonuses such as the live action end movies from \"Twisted Metal\", (which at this point, had never been officially released) a behind the scenes documentary, and a concept art book. There is also a code to download a \"Twisted Metal\" soundtrack. The game contained an answer to a question Twisted Metal fans have been asking for a long time. After fans deciphered a message in the Dark Past documentary as reading \"Twisted Metal is coming on psthree\", Jaffe confirmed it himself.\nThe PlayStation 2 port did not have online play.\n\nThe full game is ported over from the PSP to PS2 with all the same modes from the PSP version.\n\nPlayers can run around as Needles Kane and explore a new level on foot and learn factoids about the Twisted Metal franchise straight from the developers. This is simply a bonus feature and not to be confused as a real game. \"Sweet Tour\" was going to be a new adventure mode to be included into \"Twisted Metal: Black 2\" (a.k.a. \"Twisted Metal: Harbor City\") before that game was canceled. It was supposedly going to feature Preacher as another character that could be played with. The player would then accept missions from different characters. It contains two levels: Asylum and Impound Lot. The asylum is where Sweet Tooth has been captured and locked up in a cage. However, he escapes which leads him to explore the abandoned asylum to find an exit. The second level, the impound lot, is the place where the cars are parked and it has many traps. The traps were not finished at the time, however, and players could walk through them without getting hurt.\n\n\"Head-On\" also includes minigames that players can access via teleporters, which range in location from the Eiffel Tower to the Great Pyramids. These are small games where players must collect power ups while circumventing obstacles that require a variety of tactics, including jumping over chasms, and destroying helicopters using napalm bombs. The catch is that the games are timed, forcing the player to think on their feet, as it were, while maintaining a balance of caution and risk. Players reaching the end of the mini-game prior to the timer's ending keep all their powerups. Several characters can only be unlocked by completing the minigames on certain levels.\n\nThe game was met with positive to average reviews upon release. GameRankings and Metacritic gave it a score of 78.84% and 79 out of 100 for the PSP version, and 73.16% and 73 out of 100 for the PlayStation 2 version.\n"}
{"id": "2081644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081644", "title": "Acaena", "text": "Acaena\n\nAcaena is a genus of about 60 species of mainly evergreen, creeping herbaceous perennial plants and subshrubs in the family Rosaceae, native mainly to the Southern Hemisphere, notably New Zealand, Australia and South America, but with a few species extending into the Northern Hemisphere, north to Hawaii (\"A. exigua\") and California (\"A. pinnatifida\").\n\nThe leaves are alternate, long, and pinnate or nearly so, with 7–21 leaflets. The flowers are produced in a tight globose [inflorescence] in diameter, with no petals. The fruit is also a dense ball of many seeds; in many (but not all) species the seeds bear a barbed arrowhead point, the seedhead forming a burr which attaches itself to animal fur or feathers for dispersal.\n\nSeveral \"Acaena\" species in New Zealand are known by the common name bidibid. The word is written variously \"bidi-bidi\", \"biddy-biddy\", \"biddi-biddi\", \"biddi-bid\" and a number of other variations. These names are the English rendition of the original Māori name of \"piripiri\". The plant is also called the New Zealand burr. The species \"Acaena microphylla\" has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.\n\nThe generic name \"Acaena\" is derived from the Greek \"akaina\" (thorn), referring to the spiny hypanthium.\n\n, Plants of the World Online accepted the following species:\n\nSome species have been introduced accidentally to other areas, attached to sheep's wool, and have become invasive species. \"Acaena novae-zelandiae\", one of the bidibids from New Zealand, is the most commonly encountered species in the United Kingdom, where it is often abundant on coastal sand dunes, crowding out native vegetation and creating an often painful nuisance with the barbed burrs. In California, \"A. pallida\", \"A. novae-zelandiae\" and \"A. anserinifolia\" are considered serious weeds.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081645", "title": "Dodge SRT-10", "text": "Dodge SRT-10\n\nThe designation Dodge SRT-10 can refer to three vehicles, all of them powered by Dodge's V10 engine:\n\n"}
{"id": "2081646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081646", "title": "GWR 5101 Class", "text": "GWR 5101 Class\n\nThe GWR 5101 Class or 'Large Prairie' was a class of 2-6-2T steam locomotives of the Great Western Railway.\n\nThe 5101 Class were medium-sized tank engines used for suburban and local passenger services all over the Great Western Railway system. The class was an updated version, by Collett, of Churchward's 1903 3100/5100 Class.\n\nThe original 40 members of the 3100 class were renumbered 5100 and 5111 to 5149 in 1927. The first batches of 5101s filled in the numbers 5101 to 5110 and extended the class from 5150 to 5189. They were little changed from the Churchward locomotives as they then were, but had an increased axle loading of ; the maximum permitted for the ‘Blue’ route availability. Bunkers were of the standard Collett design with greater coal capacity. The 5100 number series was exhausted in 1934, and further new locomotives were numbered from 4100. The last 20 were built after nationalisation. \n\nAs both freight and passenger traffic on branch lines declined post-World War II with increasing volumes of private motor cars, and replacement on urban services by diesel-powered rail cars, the bulk of the class found itself allocated to various mainline support duties, mainly banking and piloting, often on the South Devon Banks on the Exeter to Plymouth Line, or around the Severn Tunnel on the South Wales Main Line.\n\nA number of the class - 4110, 4115, 4121, 4144, 4150, 4156 and 4160 - ended their operational lives allocated to the major locomotive shed (88E) at , undertaking piloting and banking duties through both the Severn Tunnel and the associated goods yard. Assistance was needed by all heavy trains through the Severn Tunnel, which entailed: of 1-in-90 down to the middle of the tunnel; then a further at 1-in-100 up to ; a short level then more at 1-in-100 to . However, the pilot locomotive usually came off at Pilning. Several of this group were sold for scrap to Woodham Brothers and consequently have survived into preservation.\n\n\nThe below list shows when all of the original 5101's and later 4100's were withdrawn from service.\n\nTen of the class avoiding scrapping in the 1960s (six built in the 1930s before WW2 and four built after WW2 in the late 1940s, one of which under the British Railways banner). As of 2017, five have run in preservation, one is under active restoration, two are essentially in scrapyard condition and two have acted as donor locomotives for other projects:\n\nGraham Farish manufacture a model of the Large Prairie in N scale.\nHornby have manufactured a model of the class in 00 gauge in both Great Western and British railway liveries.\nHeljan are planning on producing a model of the large prairie in O gauge in 2017 \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081647", "title": "The Secret War of Lisa Simpson", "text": "The Secret War of Lisa Simpson\n\n\"The Secret War of Lisa Simpson\" is the twenty-fifth and final episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> eighth season. It first aired on the Fox network in the United States on May 18, 1997. Bart gets sent to a military academy as punishment for bad behavior. While visiting the academy, Lisa sees that the school is far more challenging than hers and she decides that she wants to attend as well. It was directed by Mike B. Anderson, written by Richard Appel and featured Willem Dafoe in a guest spot as the school's commandant.\n\nAfter a day watching mind-numbing videos in class, Lisa worries that her education is not challenging enough. Bart's class goes on a field trip to the Springfield Police Department, where Bart finds a room with several megaphones. He places them end-to-end, increasing their amplification and creating a sonic shockwave that shatters all the glass in Springfield. Chief Wiggum suggests sending Bart to military school to correct his behavior. Under the ruse they are going to Disneyland, Homer and Marge drive the kids to Rommelwood Military School; while there, Lisa decides she also wants to enroll. Homer and Marge reluctantly agree and ignore Bart's protests that he wants to go home.\n\nLisa stirs discontent among the students because she is the first female student and gets her own barracks. After she and Bart endure hazing, Bart is eventually accepted by the other cadets and distances himself from his sister. Lonely, Lisa considers going home, but decides to see it through. As the school year comes to a close, the Commandant reveals the final test for the students: the \"Eliminator\", a hand-over-hand crawl across a rope suspended high above thorn bushes. Lisa fears she will not be able to complete the task, but Bart helps her train in secret.\n\nOn the day of the test, Lisa is the last to cross the Eliminator. She is about to fall as the students jeer, but Bart cheers her on and she makes it across safely. The other students vow to make the rest of the semester a living hell for Bart, but realize that they graduate in only three hours. The Commandant awards Lisa a special medal \"For Satisfactory Completion of the Second Grade\". After the ceremony, Homer and Marge tell the kids they will visit Disneyland \"for real\" this time, but instead drive them to a dentist's office.\n\nThe episode was written by Richard Appel, but the idea of Bart and Lisa attending a military academy had previously been pitched, and had been floating around since 1991. The idea had not yet been used as an episode plot, because the writers had not felt comfortable with taking Bart and Lisa to a strange place early in the series.\n\nDuring the scene where the Commandant is talking, there is a brief shot of Lisa blinking. As there had been an error in the final print of the episode, the shot was animated, painted and shot on May 16, 1997, the Friday before the episode's airdate. The spiky blond-haired boy, who runs towards the Eliminator while screaming, is a caricature of director Mike B. Anderson.\n\nThe episode originally aired on May 18, 1997, as the season finale, along with a rerun of \"The Springfield Files.\" The episode was mistakenly anticipated by some as being about Lisa launching \"a legal battle\" to enroll at the military school. In its original broadcast, \"The Secret War of Lisa Simpson\" finished 47th in ratings for the week of May 12–18, 1997, with a Nielsen rating of 8.3, equivalent to approximately 8.1 million viewing households. It was the second highest-rated show on the Fox network that week, following \"The X-Files\".\n\nWarren Martyn and Adrian Wood, the authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", disliked the episode, writing that it was \"very dull\" and that Dafoe was not used well. However, Dafoe is one of show runner Josh Weinstein's favorite guest stars. Ian Johnson argued Dafoe's casting was \"rare\" and \"somewhat offbeat\".\n\nJournalist Raju Mudhar also wrote that in this episode, \"\"The Simpsons\" have succinctly laid out our eventual future.\" This referred to the rise of robots in the real world and the quote from this episode:\n\"The wars of the future will not be fought on the battlefield or at sea. They will be fought in space, or possibly on top of a very tall mountain. In either case, most of the actual fighting will be done by small robots. And as you go forth today remember always your duty is clear: To build and maintain those robots.\"\n\nThe episode was one of four in 1999 released on a VHS (Re-released on DVD in 2005) called \"Bart Wars\" focused on crosses between \"The Simpsons\" and \"Star Wars\". However, one critic wrote that with this episode and \"Marge Be Not Proud\" and \"Dog of Death,\" both of which are also on the DVD, the \"\"Star Wars\" connection\" is \"tangential at best.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2081649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081649", "title": "Moyale", "text": "Moyale\n\nMoyale is a market town, found between the border of Ethiopia and Kenya, the administrative center for two woredas; Moyale of Somali Region and Moyale Oromia in Ethiopia.\n\nMoyale is the main border post on the Nairobi-Addis Ababa road, lying north of the Dide Galgalu Desert. It is known for its traditional architecture.\n\nAn early settler at Moyale was a Greek by the name of Zaphiro, who had a station which he had named \"Fort Harrington\". When C.W. Gwynn visited in 1908, Zaphiro's station consisted of a garden that covered several acres and his house, located on a spur projecting from the Boran highlands, and providing access through the line of cliffs that run along the border. \"This route may well become some day a considerable trade artery,\" Gwynn predicted. \"Fort Harrington is therefore well placed as a healthy administrative post and as a possible commercial centre.\"\n\nDuring World War II, both parts of the town were captured by Italians from Ethiopia in 1940, and retaken by the British on 15 July 1941.\n\nTensions rose in the Kenyan side of Moyale in early 1999, after an Imam was shot dead during an Ethiopian raid across the Ethiopian-Kenyan border in pursuit of rebels of the Oromo Liberation Front (OLF). The Kenyan residents of the town, held demonstrations condemning the action, which they attributed to Ethiopian security men who believed he was a sympathizer of the OLF. In March 2018, nine civilians were killed by the Ethiopian National Defense Force near Moyale after being misidentified as Oromo Liberation Front militants.\n\nIn November 2009, Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi announced plans to extend the Ethiopian railroad to Moyale. This would facilitate Kenyan plans, which at the time were at an advanced stage, to develop the port of Lamu and connect it to the Kenyan side of Moyale with a tarmac road.\n\nThis business town is disputed between the two dominant ethnic groups who are Oromos and Somalis. Moyale saw four days of ethnic clashes in July 2012 over a long-standing land dispute between Borana and Garre communities, exacerbated by drought conditions. The fighting left at least eighteen dead, and more than twenty thousand people fled across the border into Kenya.\n\nFor the Ethiopian share of Moyale, based on figures from the Central Statistical Agency in 2005, it has an estimated total population of 25,038 of whom 13,665 are men and 11,373 are women. The 1994 Ethiopian census reported that the Ethiopian side of Moyale had a total population of 13,962, of whom 7,411 were men and 6,551 were women. (This total also includes an estimate for parts of the town of Moyale, which were not counted; for these parts of the town, it was estimated there were 3,419 inhabitants, of whom 1,752 were men and 1,667 were women.) The five largest ethnic groups reported in Moyale were the Borana Oromo (50.94%), the Garre Somali (15.15%), the Burji (11.75%), the Degodia Somali (5.10%), the Amhara (9.42%), the Hawadle\nSomali (4.54%), the Welayta (4.82%), and the Silt'e (4.28%). Other groups reported in Moyale include the Borana Oromo and the Garre Somali. Oromiffa was spoken as a first language by 46.53%, second were 25.76% spoke by Somali, 11.17% spoke Amharic, 9.96% spoke Burji, 3.96% spoke Welayta, and 3.62% spoke Silt'e.\n\nThe Kenyan part of Moyale has an urban population of 9,276 (1999 census).\n"}
{"id": "2081657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081657", "title": "College Heights Secondary School (Guelph)", "text": "College Heights Secondary School (Guelph)\n\nCollege Heights Secondary School is a public high school located in Guelph, Ontario, Canada. It is part of the Upper Grand District School Board.\n\nCollege Heights Secondary School, founded in 1968, is a community-based school that works with industry, business and community organizations to support students. The program prepares students for apprenticeships, college or the workplace. The program includes a wide variety of technical pathways as well as eight Specialist High Skills Major Programs. In recent years the school has dramatically increased their student credit success rate, graduation rate and Literacy Test Success Rate. The school population ranges between 580-650 students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081660", "title": "Battle of Namozine Church", "text": "Battle of Namozine Church\n\nThe Battle of Namozine Church, Virginia was an engagement between Union Army and Confederate States Army forces that occurred on April 3, 1865 during the Appomattox Campaign of the American Civil War. The battle was the first engagement between units of General Robert E. Lee's Confederate Army of Northern Virginia after that army's evacuation of Petersburg and Richmond, Virginia on April 2, 1865 and units of the Union Army (Army of the Shenandoah, Army of the Potomac and Army of the James) under the immediate command of Maj. Gen. Philip Sheridan, who was still acting independently as commander of the Army of the Shenandoah, and under the overall direction of Union General-in-Chief Lt. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant. The forces immediately engaged in the battle were brigades of the cavalry division of Union Brig. Gen. and Brevet Maj. Gen. George Armstrong Custer, especially the brigade of Colonel and Brevet Brig. Gen. William Wells, and the Confederate rear guard cavalry brigades of Brig. Gen. William P. Roberts and Brig. Gen. Rufus Barringer and later in the engagement, Confederate infantry from the division of Maj. Gen. Bushrod Johnson.\n\nThe engagement signaled the beginning of the Union Army's relentless pursuit of the Confederate forces (Army of Northern Virginia and Richmond local defense forces) after the fall of Petersburg and Richmond after the Third Battle of Petersburg (sometimes known as the Breakthrough at Petersburg or Fall of Petersburg), which led to the near disintegration of Lee's forces within 6 days and the Army of Northern Virginia's surrender at Appomattox Court House, Virginia on April 9, 1865. Capt. Tom Custer, the general's brother, was cited at this battle for the first of two Medals of Honor that he received for actions within four days.\n\nDuring the 292-day Richmond–Petersburg Campaign (Siege of Petersburg) Union General-in-Chief Ulysses S. Grant had to conduct a campaign of trench warfare and attrition in which the Union forces tried to wear down the less numerous Confederate Army of Northern Virginia, destroy or cut off sources of supply and supply lines to Petersburg and Richmond and extend the defensive lines which the outnumbered and declining Confederate force had to defend to the breaking point. After the Battle of Hatcher's Run on February 5–7, 1865 extended the armies' lines another , Lee had few reserves after manning the lengthened Confederate defenses. Lee knew he must soon move part or all of his army from the Richmond and Petersburg lines, obtain food and supplies at Danville, Virginia or possibly Lynchburg, Virginia and join General Joseph E. Johnston's force opposing Major General William T. Sherman's army in North Carolina. Lee thought that if the Confederates could quickly defeat Sherman, they might turn back to oppose Grant before he could combine his forces with Sherman's.\n\nAfter the Confederate defeats at the Battle of Fort Stedman and Jones's Farm on March 25, 1865, Lee knew that Grant would soon move against the only remaining Confederate supply lines to Petersburg, the South Side Railroad and the Boydton Plank Road to Petersburg, which also might cut off all routes of retreat from Richmond and Petersburg.\n\nAfter an offensive begun on the night of March 28–March 29, 1865 that included the Battle of Lewis's Farm, Battle of White Oak Road and the Battle of Dinwiddie Court House, Grant's Union Army broke the Confederate States Army defenses of Petersburg, Virginia at the Battle of Five Forks on April 1 and the Third Battle of Petersburg on April 2.\n\nUnion Army cavalry and V Corps infantry of the still formally organized Army of the Shenandoah, many recently detached from the Army of the Potomac, numbering about 22,000 men under the command of Maj. Gen. Philip Sheridan, defeated Pickett's task force of about 10,000 Confederate cavalry and infantry from the Army of Northern Virginia at the Battle of Five Forks, Virginia about beyond the western end of the Confederate lines. After sustaining about 800 casualties and losing between 2,400 and 4,000 men who were captured, the remaining Confederates retreated from the strategic Five Forks crossroads to Ford's Station or Ford's Meeting House on the South Side Railroad.\n\nAt the Third Battle of Petersburg, four Confederate brigades stood west of Hatcher's Run and due east of Five Forks along White Oak Road where it is met by Claiborne Road. The attack against these brigades by II Corps of the Army of the Potomac under the command of Maj. Gen. Andrew A. Humphreys sent the Confederates into retreat to Sutherland's Station or Sutherland's Depot on the South Side Railroad. Confederate Maj. Gen. Henry Heth, who succeeded to corps command upon the death in action of Lt. Gen. A. P. Hill on April 1, organized a defense with these brigades but left them under the command of Brig. Gen. John R. Cooke as Heth returned to Petersburg.\n\nAt the Battle of Sutherland's Station, a Union Army division under the command of Brigadier General Nelson A. Miles broke up the last defense of the South Side Railroad on the afternoon of April 2, cutting off that railroad as a supply line or route of retreat for the Confederates. The initial attack by a single Union brigade against a hastily fortified line was repulsed with heavy losses. After a second futile attempt to take the Confederate position by two Union brigades, Miles attacked again with his entire force in mid-afternoon and overwhelmed the Confederates, starting with the collapse of the brigade of Brig. Gen. Samuel McGowan on the Confederate left flank. As a result of the Confederate defeat, the South Side Railroad, the Confederates' last supply line, was cut and General Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia had to abandon Petersburg and Richmond and flee westward.\n\nGeneral Lee's Army of Northern Virginia evacuated Petersburg, Virginia and the Confederate capital of Richmond, Virginia on the night of April 2–3 and began a march toward Danville, Virginia, hoping to link up with General Joseph E. Johnston's army which was attempting to slow the advance the Union army group commanded by Major General William T. Sherman in North Carolina. Much of the Army of Northern Virginia and Confederate President Jefferson Davis and his cabinet were able to escape from Petersburg and Richmond just in ahead of the Union troops entering those cities on April 3 because Confederate rear guard forces, especially at Forts Gregg and Whitworth, Fort Mahone and the Battle of Sutherland's Station, fought desperate delaying actions on April 2 to give most of the Confederates a head start on Union Army pursuers. General Lee first planned to reunite the four columns of his army which left Petersburg and Richmond and to resupply the army at Amelia Court House, Virginia, southwest of Richmond. Lee's men left their positions in Petersburg and Richmond with only one day's rations. Lee expected to find a supply train of rations that he had ordered brought to Amelia Court House to meet the army.\n\nMost of Lee's army marched west on routes north of the Appomattox River but the remnants of the divisions of Maj. Gen. George Pickett and of Maj. Gen. Bushrod Johnson, the latter of which included the brigades of Confederate Brig. Gens. Henry A. Wise, William Henry Wallace and Young Marshall Moody, along with cavalry corps commander Maj. Gen. Fitzhugh Lee, whose division was under the command of Colonel Thomas Munford, and the division of Maj. Gen. W.H.F. \"Rooney\" Lee following as a rear guard moved on the Namozine Road, south of the river. While most of Lee's army had an effective one day head start on their flight from Richmond and Petersburg, the advance Union Army cavalry and infantry corps under commanded by Maj. Gen. Philip Sheridan were able to keep Lee's forces to their north by pursuing them on a parallel course to their south. Union cavalry harassed and skirmished with Confederate units almost from the outset of the Confederate army's march from Petersburg. Confederate rear guard dismounted cavalry units often paused to block the roads from pursuing Union cavalry. As early as the evening of April 2, Confederate cavalry under Fitzhugh Lee detected units of the Union cavalry division of Brig. Gen. Thomas Devin in pursuit and had Bushrod Johnson's infantry throw up a series of breastworks along the Namozine Road in order to repulse the Union riders.\n\nOn April 3, 1865, advance units of the Union cavalry fought with rear guard Confederate cavalry at Willicomack Creek and the Battle of Namozine Church. In the early morning of April 3, at a ford on Namozine Creek, regiments from the 2d brigade, under the command of Colonel William Wells, of Custer's 3rd cavalry division, which had taken over the advance pursuit, threatened the rear guard of Rooney Lee's column. That rear guard was the cavalry brigade of Brig. Gen. William P. Roberts and a few infantry units. Roberts had dismounted the 4th North Carolina Cavalry Regiment and the 16th North Carolina Cavalry Battalion and had them entrench on the west side of the creek. Custer brought up artillery to blast the North Carolina cavalrymen with canister and had the 1st Vermont Volunteer Cavalry Regiment ford the creek out of sight of the Confederates in order to outflank them. When the Confederates discovered this maneuver, they fled their position in order to try to regroup further down the road. Custer's division then crossed the creek and headed for Namozine Church, about away. The leading Union cavalry brigade of Custer's 3rd Division, the 2d Brigade under Col. William Wells, who had attacked the Confederate cavalrymen of Brig. Gen. Rufus Barringer along the creek, fought a running battle along the road until they reached Namozine Church.\n\nBarringer's Confederates, the 1st and 2d North Carolina Volunteer Cavalry Regiments with a single artillery piece, with the 5th North Carolina Volunteer Cavalry Regiment in reserve, counterattacked the 8th New York Volunteer Cavalry Regiment of Wells's brigade, commanded by Maj. James Bliss, as they reached the Namozine Church After sharp fighting, the Confederate cavalry were turned away by the 8th New York Cavalry and reinforcements from the 15th New York Volunteer Cavalry Regiment, commanded by Col. John J. Coppinger' and the 1st Vermont Volunteer Cavalry Regiment, commanded by Lt. Col. Josiah Hall. About 9:00 a.m., as Wells's brigade began their attack, Brig. Gen. Custer's younger brother, Captain Tom Custer, spurred his horse over a hastily thrown up barricade of the still deploying Confederate cavalry and captured 3 Confederate officers and 11 enlisted men, as well as the battle flag of the 2nd North Carolina Cavalry. For his actions, Tom Custer would eventually be awarded a Medal of Honor, one of two he would earn within four days.\n\nBarringer's Confederate cavalry had bought enough time for Bushrod Johnson's infantry division to pass nearby Namozine Church around 8:00 a.m. Unfortunately for Johnson, his forces took a wrong turn at a fork in the road and had to halt when his command reached a bridge over Deep Creek that was underwater from recent flooding. Although the Union cavalry drove off the Confederate cavalry, the North Carolina cavalry regiments had secured the Namozine Church road intersection long enough for Johnson to return and take the correct fork. When General Johnson approached with his infantry division, Custer's forces were forced to retire, allowing the Confederate forces to proceed across Deep Creek, an Appomattox River tributary. Then, Fitzhugh Lee and his cousin, \"Rooney\" Lee, second son of Gen. Robert E. Lee, separated their cavalry commands and continued their retreat. Custer later chased the fleeing Confederates but near dark he ran into substantial infantry opposition from Johnson's division at Sweathouse Creek and halted for the night. After dark, however, Wells's brigade continued to attack Fitzhugh Lee's force along Deep Creek. Brig. Gen. Barringer and many of his men were captured by Sheridan's scouts who were wearing gray uniforms and who led Barringer and his remaining men into a trap. Rooney Lee's adjutant general, Maj. J. D. Ferguson, also was captured. Sheridan's forces camped for the night along the road from Namozine Church to Deep Creek while the Confederate infantry and remaining cavalry continued to march to their designated consolidation point of Amelia Court House, where they expected to receive much needed supplies and rations.\n\nColonel Wells lost 95 Federal cavalrymen killed and wounded in the engagement. Total Confederate losses are not known, but Custer's men were able to capture many of the Confederates. They took 350 prisoners, 100 horses and an artillery piece while initially clearing the road as far as the Namozine Church. Johnson reported 15 wounded from his division. After the battle, Namozine Church served as a field hospital and later as Maj. Gen. Sheridan's temporary headquarters.\n\nOn April 4, 1865, the opposing forces skirmished at Tabernacle Church or Beaver Pond Creek and at Amelia Court House. Meanwhile, Sheridan's forces occupied Jetersville, Virginia and Burkeville, Virginia which blocked Lee's access to the Richmond and Danville Railroad and to the direct route southwestward. Lee had hoped to find a supply train at Amelia Court House, Virginia, southwest of Richmond, but when he and his forces arrived there on April 4, 1865, he found that the train contained only ordnance, ammunition, caissons and harnesses. After a delay for unsuccessful foraging efforts, or as some historians have argued, primarily because of the delay in bringing up a pontoon bridge needed to cross rain-swollen rivers, Lee had to order his hungry men to resume their march in the hope that they could find rations at Farmville, Virginia.\n\nOn April 5, 1865, Sheridan ordered Crook to send cavalry patrols north of Jetersville to reconnoiter his left flank. Between and out of Jetersville, Union Brig. Gen. Henry E. Davies, Jr. attacked and destroyed about 200 wagons of a Confederate army wagon train and took at least 300 prisoners. Confederate cavalry engaged Davies's rear guard in a running combat through Amelia Springs but Davies's force linked up with reinforcements near Jetersville which permitted Davies to limit his losses and keep his prisoners.\n\nOn the morning of April 6, Meade thought that the Confederate army remained concentrated at Amelia Court House and, despite the suspicions of Grant and Sheridan that the Confederates had moved on, Meade sent the Army of the Potomac infantry in the direction of Amelia Court House on that morning. The Union forces soon discovered that Lee had started moving west and changed their direction of march to continue their pursuit. In the afternoon of April 6, 1865, approximately one-fifth of the remaining soldiers of the Army of Northern Virginia were cut off from the main body of Confederate troops at the Battle of Sailor's Creek (or Battle of Sayler's Creek) and killed or (mainly) captured. The killed and captured were about 8,000 men, including Lt. Gen. Richard S. Ewell and eight other generals. This in turn was about one-sixth of the number of men who had left Richmond and Petersburg with Lee's forces.\n\nAfter about five more small engagements over the next three days, with the Army of Northern Virginia melting away and Union forces surrounding them, Lee surrendered his army to Grant on April 9, 1865 at Appomattox Court House, Virginia, about west of Richmond.\n\nThe battlefield retains good integrity although the area is more wooded today. Namozine Presbyterian Church still exists and is owned by the Amelia County Historical Society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081663", "title": "Thuvayal Thavasu", "text": "Thuvayal Thavasu\n\nThuvayal Thavasu, literally washing penance, was a significant religious event that took place in the 19th century. It was also called as thuvayal panthi. (panthi means an arrangement of people in a row for meals during feasts). By the late thirties of the nineteenth century, when the religion of Ayyavazhi had come to exist with certain excitement and euphoria, a group of people, of different age groups and genders, undertook to perform this unique exercise as directed by Lord Vaikundar.\nParticipants of this exercise seem to have sold out their properties in a manner of renunciation, at half of their value. And, with a bare minimum of means of livelihood, they had gone to a place near the eastern seashore, know presently as Vakaippathi, situated at about four kilometers to the north of Cape Comorin. They camped there together and performed the following actions in a manner of a ritual: They took a bath and washed their clothes in the seawater thrice everyday and cooked vegetarian meal with raw rice and green-grams, and ate it only once a day. The manner of eating was that they took it directly with their mouth from the sandy ground where the food had been laid. They drank only the salty water and abstained from fish. Apart from washing, cooking and eating, the remaining hours were spent on spiritual exercises. They recited certain incantations taught by persons among them who had the gift of oracles. These persons instructed the group whatever they had to do. It was one of these persons that taught the group the popular incantation called Ukappatippu literally meaning ‘song of the aeon’, the recital of which, often an abridged version of it, forms part of the daily rituals of Ayyavazhi to this day.\nThere seems to have been some opposition to the practice of this exercise of thuvayal thavasu. There is a verse in Akilathirattu that says, the wicked violently dispersed those that participated in this thuvayal thavasu. The high caste people caused trouble and tried to disperse the participants. But the participants seem to have withstood and continued the exercise.\n\nAs per the account of Akilathirattu, the people performed this exercise for about six months. As the days passed, stinkbugs, ticks, swarming flies and other pests caused skin diseases and serious disturbances of them. People took them as test caused by Ayya Vaikundar of their faith, courage and fortitude, and withstood all the tribulations. Finally, being instructed through a persons dream, they ended the thavasu at Vakaippathi, and, went over to a place now known as Muttappathi, situated at a distance of three kilometers to the south of Vakaippathi. At Muttappathi, they spent a month in similar exercises, and stopped it only when struck by severe diseases that killed a few of them, which they read as definite sign to end the thavasu.\nAfter ending the thavasu, the participants went back to their native places. They were received with respect and reverence, and, addressed honourably as Thuvayal pantarams They went to different places, and spread whatever they had learned from the thavasu. They were received cordially by the followers of Ayyavazhi who considered it a religious virtue to be hospitable to them. The now prevalent practice of offering food (called as thavanakanci) in Nizhal Thangals seems to have originated from this act of charity. \nThe participants external appearance seems to have undergone a change after this exercise. Akilathirattu says that the surrounding people who witnessed them exclaimed as follows:\n\"The dress of the Namputiri and other Brahmins have lost their shine, whereas that of the Chanar shine like the sun... See what a change has come about for Chanars. The people who awaited avidly the arrival of fish and ate it even half cooked in a greedy manner, and chewed tobacco incessantly, have transformed themselves so much!\"\nThe LMS Report for the year 1892 puts it as: \"It is true that their [the devoteed of Vikunda Swamy] bodies and their houses are more cleanly [sic] than those of the rest.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2081665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081665", "title": "Mondo Bongo", "text": "Mondo Bongo\n\nMondo Bongo was The Boomtown Rats' fourth album. It peaked at No. 6 in the UK Albums Chart in February 1981, and No. 116 in the US \"Billboard\" 200.\n\nIt included the hit singles: \"Banana Republic\", which had reached No. 3 in the UK Singles Chart in November 1980 and \"The Elephants Graveyard (Guilty)\" which made No. 26 in January 1981.\n\nThe album received mixed reviews in the press, with American critics being generally more positive than their British counterparts. \"New Musical Express\" put down the record as \"hollow pop, quaking under a plethora of poorly integrated rip-offs\", while \"Sounds\" called it \"self-indulgent\" and lacking in depth or emotion. \"Rolling Stone\", however, praised it as \"an intoxicating mixture of pop and punk\", and \"Trouser Press\" called it \"an enormously enjoyable LP, with hardly a dry patch on it\".\n\nAll songs were written by Bob Geldof, except where noted.\n\nAll songs were written by Bob Geldof, except where noted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081666", "title": "Ty Tabor", "text": "Ty Tabor\n\nTy Tabor (born September 17, 1961) is the lead guitarist, songwriter, and co-lead vocalist for the progressive metal band, King's X.\n\nTabor has a wide-ranging guitar style, from big guitar riffs to soaring melodic passages. His use of volume swells and ambient passages add an elemental texture to his compositions. He names his main influences as the Beatles, Allan Holdsworth, Johnny Winter, Ace Frehley, Mel Galley, Brian May, Alex Lifeson, Phil Keaggy, and the original Alice Cooper band. In 2008, Tabor was added to the guitar show \"Chop Shop's\" list of \"Top 100 Most Complete Guitar Players of All Time\" at number 84.\n\nTy Tabor was born in Pearl, Mississippi and began singing and playing guitar at a young age, and by his early teens was performing with his father (an accomplished bluegrass musician) and his brother in a bluegrass band in and around his native Jackson. The band would play various festivals and shows, sharing the bill with bluegrass legends like Lester Flatt and Grandpa Jones. Tabor had also been taken over by the rock and roll sounds of the 1960s and '70s (most notably, The Beatles and Alice Cooper) and began playing in rock bands in his teen years. One of these was a Christian rock outfit called \"Matthew\". Upon graduating from high school, Tabor began touring with Matthew throughout the south. Times were tough on that tour with the band often setting up and performing in the parking lots of restaurants in exchange for food.\n\nHe left Matthew and decided to move to Springfield, MO. to attend Evangel College where he quickly entrenched himself in the local music scene. One group he played with got the chance to open up for guitarist Phil Keaggy. However, right before the show, the drummer for Tabor's band quit. Instead of cancelling and missing out on the big opportunity, Tabor volunteered to play drums for the show. Not having his own drum kit however, forced Tabor to ask Keaggy's drummer if he could use his. The drummer, who happened to be Jerry Gaskill, agreed and the show took place.\n\nTabor and Gaskill again crossed paths during some demo recording sessions with the \"Tracy Zinn Band\". The two became friends and were involved off and on with other musical projects together.\n\nIn spring of 1980, Tabor was asked to perform at a talent show at Evangel with a female singer. In the audience was Doug Pinnick, who was impressed by Tabor's performance. Pinnick eventually got in touch with Tabor and the two began collaborating musically.\n\nEventually Tabor, Pinnick, Gaskill, and guitarist Dan McCollam formed their own band called \"The Edge\" which, over time, evolved into King's X.\n\nSince then, Tabor has become one of the more acclaimed and respected guitarists in music today. His playing style and guitar tone, as well as his vocals and songwriting, are crucial elements in the \"King's X sound\".\n\nTabor has also opened his own recording and mastering facility in Katy, TX. called Alien Beans Studios. He has mastered numerous album projects as well as produced albums by The Rez Band, Jerry Gaskill's solo album \"Come Somewhere\" and many others.\n\nAfter writing and performing almost exclusively for King's X for over 15 years, Tabor's first solo album, \"Naomi's Solar Pumpkin\", was released independently in 1997. Most of the songs from that debut appeared (re-recorded) on his following 1998 album, \"Moonflower Lane\". It was released on Metal Blade Records with much wider distribution as well as a few new tracks, and also featured drummer Alan Doss on the entire album.\n\nTabor's next release was 2002's \"Safety\", a much more introspective album that reflected on his then-recent divorce. Subsequent Tabor solo albums are \"Rock Garden\" (2006), \"Balance\" (2008), \"Something's Coming\" (2010), and \"Nobody Wins When Nobody Plays\" (2013). His latest solo album, \"Alien Beans\", was released in January 2018.\n\nTabor has also been a member of several other bands. He played guitar and sang in Platypus featuring Rod Morgenstein (previously of the Dixie Dregs and Winger) on drums, John Myung (of Dream Theater) on bass, and keyboardist Derek Sherinian (of Planet X and formerly Dream Theater). They released two albums.\n\nThe same group minus Derek Sherinian continued on as The Jelly Jam and currently have four full-length albums to their credit.\n\nTy played guitar solos on 2 tracks, Ode To Pain and Goodbye 25, with Dallas/Houston friends, Mind Body Soul, on their self-titled 4 song EP in 1998, which Ty also mixed and mastered.\n\nTabor was also involved with the band Jughead featuring two-time David Lee Roth band member Gregg Bissonette (drums), Derek Sherinian (keyboards), and Matt Bissonette (lead vocals, bass). Jughead's self-titled LP was released in 2002 on InsideOut Music.\n\nTabor has guest appearances on several albums including two different Carmine Appice \"Guitar Zeus\" albums, Loudness drummer Munetaka Higuchi's \"Free World\" album, and Gregg Bissonette's self-titled solo record.\n\nHe also played electric guitar and bass on King's X bandmate Jerry Gaskill's solo album \"Come Somewhere\".\n\nHe currently has an ambient / electronica style project with Wally Farkas called \"Xenuphobe\". They have 2 albums that were released through Molken Music.\n\nTabor also sang one of the human roles on Ayreon's recent release, 01011001. He played the character \"Ty\" in the first interlude, \"Connect the Dots\".\n\nTabor, along with King's X bandmate Doug Pinnick and former Galactic Cowboys members Wally Farkas and Alan Doss, have a new band called \"The Jibbs\" who have a single song available for download to benefit relief efforts in the aftermath of Hurricane Ike.\n\nEarly in his career with King's X, Tabor's guitar sound was considered one of the most sought-after in rock. He played an unusual model of Fender Stratocaster called the \"Elite\", a short-lived guitar with an on-board active mid-boost circuit that was only in production in the U.S.A. in 1983 and 1984. The remainder of his gear was more of a mystery; he would switch the logos on his amplifiers to keep his tone a secret. He later abandoned this clandestine approach, and revealed in an interview in the May 1996 issue of Guitar Player magazine that he had used a solid-state Gibson Lab Series L5 amplifier along with the Strat Elite guitar to record the first four King's X albums. By the time of the interview, however, he had changed his equipment completely, the main pieces of his gear being a rack-mounted Mesa/Boogie Dual Rectifier and the preamp of his Elite Stratocaster that was converted into a rack-mounted preamp (this allowed him to emulate the sound of his Elite Stratocaster, regardless of what guitar he used), which was his setup during the \"Dogman\" era, and would continue into the 1990s and early 2000s.\n\nTabor endorsed Zion Guitars, around the time of the recording of \"Dogman\". Phil Keaggy played Zion Guitars earlier. The Zion Ty Tabor Model was a Strat style guitar, with a basswood body and a maple cap. It featured Joe Barden Pickups, a 3 button pickup selector with no tone control. It came only in candy apple red. The neck was maple with a rosewood fingerboard. It featured a relatively new machine head at the time, a gold accented locking model made by Sperzel. Tabor personally signed each guitar. In recent years, Tabor has endorsed Mesa Boogie, Line 6, and Randall amplifiers, as well as Yamaha guitars, including the AES series and his now discontinued signature RGX-TT model. The RGX-TT was an unusual guitar in that it featured a basswood body with a maple center section. On this guitar Tabor use pickups by Seymour Duncan, in the H-S-S fashion. The bridge humbucker could be switched to single coil mode with a push switch. On the \"Go Tell Somebody\" tour with King's X, Tabor is using the M4 preamp from Egnater and Dean Soltero guitars. In 2008 and through mid-2009 Ty toured with two black Frank Lamara designed/Gene Baker built signature model guitars, with pickup (Motor City Pickups) covers showing an X on one and a V on the other. These symbolized the name of the album King's X were supporting at the time. In 2009, Ty began working with luthier John Guilford to create the Ty Tabor model of Guilford guitars. The Ty Tabor model features a mahogany body, maple neck (inlaid with the stylized X at the 12th fret) and maple fretboard, and two Seymour Duncan P-Rails pickups. The combination allows for tones ranging from traditional single-coil to dual humbucker to P90. Ty has used these guitars extensively on tour in support of XV.\n"}
{"id": "2081670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081670", "title": "The Turn of the Screw (opera)", "text": "The Turn of the Screw (opera)\n\nThe Turn of the Screw is a 20th-century English chamber opera composed by Benjamin Britten with a libretto by Myfanwy Piper, \"wife of the artist John Piper, who had been a friend of the composer since 1935 and had provided designs for several of the operas\". The libretto is based on the 1898 novella \"The Turn of the Screw\" by Henry James. The opera was commissioned by the Venice Biennale and given its world premiere on 14 September 1954, at the Teatro La Fenice, Venice. The original recording was made during that year, with the composer conducting.\n\nDescribed as one of the most dramatically appealing English operas, the opera in two acts has a prologue and sixteen scenes, each preceded by a variation on the twelve-note 'Screw' theme. Typically of Britten, the music mixes tonality and dissonance, with Britten's recurrent use of a twelve-tone figure being perhaps a nod to the approach of Arnold Schoenberg. Thematically, the play gives a central role to a line borrowed from W. B. Yeats' poem \"The Second Coming\": \"The ceremony of innocence is drowned.\"\n\nThe opera was given its British premiere on 6 October 1954 by the Sadler's Wells Opera in London; the North American premiere on 23 August 1957 at Canada's Stratford Festival with the English Opera Group; the US premiere followed on 19 March 1958 at the New York College of Music. Since then there have been regular performances around the world.\n\nIn 2003, English Touring Opera presented the work throughout England and three years later Glyndebourne Touring Opera toured the UK with their new production of the work before reviving it in 2007 at their summer festival, Glyndebourne Festival Opera. Opera Queensland's staged Neil Armfield's production in 2005 which featured the solo professional operatic debut of Kate Miller-Heidke as Flora.\n\nLos Angeles Opera performed the Glyndebourne Touring Opera production of the work in 2011 under music director James Conlon. OperaUpClose reframed the opera in their 2011 production, the story being told from the point of the view of the Governess as a patient in an asylum. It is left unclear as to whether the story stems completely from her mind or whether she arrived there after her experiences in the Bly house. Opera Moderne produced the work in 2012 at Symphony Space in New York under the stage direction of Luke Leonard.\n\nOpera Holland Park received positive reviews of their presentation of the work in six performances in summer 2014.\n\nFor a limited run in 2018, Regent's Park Open Air Theatre presented a co-production with the English National Opera, directed by Timothy Sheader and conducted by Toby Purser. \n\nA singer known as Prologue tells about a young governess (who remains unnamed throughout the opera) he once knew who cared for two children at Bly House. She had been hired by their uncle and guardian, who lived in London and was too busy to care for them. After hiring her, he laid three stipulations on the Governess: Never to write to him about the children, never to inquire about the history of Bly House, and never to abandon the children.\n\nThe Governess is apprehensive about her new position. When she arrives at Bly House, the housekeeper, Mrs. Grose, and the children greet her. When the Governess sees Miles, the little boy, their eyes lock and the Governess feels as if she has a strange connection with Miles. Mrs. Grose interrupts their reverie and leads the Governess off to explore the beautiful land around the house. The Governess sings that all her fears are now gone. A letter from Miles' school arrives, advising the Governess that the boy has been expelled but giving no reason. The Governess is sure that Miles, like his sister Flora, is too innocent to have done anything bad enough for expulsion. Encouraged by Mrs. Grose, she decides to ignore the letter.\n\nThe Governess sings about her wonderful position at the house and the beautiful children she has in her care. But she is troubled by footsteps she has heard outside her door and cries in the night. Suddenly, she spots a pale-faced man perched on a tower of the house. When the man disappears, she becomes frightened and wonders if she has seen a ghost. Her mind is put at ease by the playing of the children, and their singing of the nursery rhyme \"Tom, Tom, the Piper's Son\". Later she sees the same man looking in through a window. She decides to ask Mrs. Grose about the man. Based on her description the housekeeper tells the Governess about Peter Quint, the former valet at Bly House. Mrs. Grose implies that Quint may have been a pederast who preyed on Miles, and that he had a sexual relationship with Miss Jessel, the young and beautiful previous governess. Mrs. Grose hints that Miss Jessel, too, had a relationship to the children that seemed inappropriately close. The housekeeper did nothing, since Quint intimidated her, and she explains \"it wasn't my place\". Miss Jessel left the house and eventually died. Shortly thereafter, Quint died under mysterious circumstances on an icy road near Bly House. The Governess rededicates herself to protecting the children. The next morning, the Governess is teaching Miles Latin, when he suddenly enters into a trance-like state and sings a song, \"Malo\".\n\nLater that day, the Governess sits by the side of a lake with Flora. Flora recites the names of the seas of the world, finishing with the Dead Sea. Flora's comparison of the Dead Sea with Bly House unsettles the Governess. As Flora plays on the shore with her doll, the Governess suddenly sees a strange woman across the lake who seems to be watching Flora. The horrified Governess realises that the woman is a ghost — the ghost of Miss Jessel, who has returned to claim Flora. The Governess hurries Flora home to safety.\n\nThat night, Miles and Flora slip out into the woods to meet Miss Jessel and Peter Quint. The children fantasize about a world where dreams come true. The Governess and Mrs. Grose arrive as the children are about to be possessed, and the spirits depart. Miles sings a haunting song about how he has been a bad boy.\n\nThe ghosts of Peter Quint and Miss Jessel reappear. They argue about who harmed whom first when they were alive, and accuse one another of not acting quickly enough to possess the children. In her room, the Governess worries about the evil she feels in the house.\n\nThe next morning, the family goes to church. The children sing a song which sounds similar to a psalm. Mrs. Grose declares that nothing can be wrong if the children are as sweet as this. The Governess tells her of Miles' unearthly day-dream song and Flora's bizarre behaviour. Alarmed, Mrs. Grose advises the Governess to write to their employer in London. At first, the Governess declines, recalling her employer's admonitions before she took the job. But when Miles mentions the ghosts of Quint and Jessel, the Governess realises things are much more dire than they seem. She resolves to leave Bly House.\n\nAfter church, the family returns home. The Governess goes into the children's schoolroom where she sees the ghost of Miss Jessel seated at the teacher's desk. The spectre bemoans her fate, and sings about how she suffers in the afterlife. The Governess confronts the spirit, which vanishes. Believing the ghosts may not yet have the upper hand, the Governess changes her mind, deciding to stay at Bly House after all. Instead, she writes to the children's uncle, informing him that she must speak with him.\n\nThat night, the Governess tells Miles that she has written to his uncle about the spirits haunting Bly House. She departs. The voice of Quint calls out to Miles, terrifying him. The lights go out, and the ghost hovers over the terrified child. Quint tells Miles to steal the letter. The boy goes to the schoolroom, finds the letter, and takes it back to his room.\n\nThe next morning, Miles plays the piano for the Governess and Mrs. Grose. While the Governess is distracted by his performance, Flora slips off to go to the lake. When the two women realise Flora is gone, they search for her. Finding the girl at the lake, the Governess sees the spectre of Miss Jessel nearby—but Mrs. Grose sees nothing. The Governess tries to force Flora to admit that the apparition is there, but Flora denies seeing anything and hurls invective at the Governess. Mrs. Grose, convinced the Governess has gone too far, angrily takes Flora home. The Governess feels betrayed by Mrs. Grose.\n\nThat night, Flora begins to rant and rave about committing unspeakable horrors. Mrs. Grose agrees to take Flora away from the house. The housekeeper tells the Governess that the letter was never mailed and that Miles must have taken it. The Governess confronts Miles alone. As she questions him, the ghost of Quint pressures Miles not to betray him. Hysterical, Miles confesses that he took the letter. The Governess demands to know who put Miles up to it. Miles blurts out Quint's name. At the mention of his name, Quint's ghost vanishes and Miles falls dead on the floor. A weeping Governess cradles the dead child in her arms, singing aloud of her grief and wondering if she did the right thing after all.\n\nFor the children's music, Britten drew words and melody from a number of traditional British nursery rhymes, including \"Tom, Tom, the Piper's Son\" and \"Lavender's Blue\". Of particular note is Miles' song \"Malo.\" The lyrics to this are a mnemonic for beginning Latin students. The word \"malo\" can be either a form of the adjective for \"bad\", or the first-person singular of the verb \"malle\", \"to prefer,\" which has an irregular conjugation and is a common stumbling block for students. \"Malo\" could also be a form of the scientific name for the apple species. The rhyme Miles sings helps students to keep in mind the three possible meanings for \"malo\" when encountered in a text for translation: adjective of wickedness, verb of preference, or \"apple tree\"? The Latin words that are used in the lesson scene have been examined in more detail for their paedophilic innuendos. The line \"The ceremony of innocence is drowned\" sung by Quint and Miss Jessel is taken from the poem \"The Second Coming\" by W. B. Yeats.\n\nNotes\nCited sources\n\nOther sources\n\n"}
{"id": "2081673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081673", "title": "Delph", "text": "Delph\n\nDelph (Old English \"(ge)delf\" a quarry) is a village in the Saddleworth civil parish of the Metropolitan Borough of Oldham, in Greater Manchester, England. Historically within the West Riding of Yorkshire, it lies amongst the Pennines on the River Tame below the village of Denshaw, east-northeast of Oldham, and north-northwest of Uppermill.\n\nThe centre of the village has barely changed from the 19th century when a number of small textile mills provided employment for the local community. There is a significant first century AD Roman fort at Castleshaw.\n\nThe village is home to one of the Saddleworth Whit Friday brass band contests, with in the region of seventy-five bands from across the UK and beyond marching down the main street at five-minute intervals on the evening of the contest which often continues into the early hours. In the village of Dobcross a Henry Livings memorial prize is open to bands who play on any of the morning's walks on Whit Friday.\nIt is also home to the Millgate Arts Centre, the home of the Saddleworth Players. This group puts on six plays a year, as well as hosting a number of other events throughout the year.\n\nThe main street running through the centre of Delph was used in some of the external shots of the 2001 feature film \"The Parole Officer\", starring Steve Coogan, Om Puri and Jenny Agutter.\nDelph was also used in the filming of the Whit Friday scene in the 1996 film \"Brassed Off\".\nDelph is mentioned in the song \"This One's For Now\" by the band Half Man Half Biscuit on their 2014 album \"Urge for Offal\". The legendary landmark above Delph 'St Thomas Church at The Heights' was featured in the blockbuster movie \"A Monster Calls\" starring Liam Neeson.\n\nDelph railway station was opened in 1851 as part of the London and North Western Railway route from Oldham to Delph. The station closed in May 1955, when the Delph Donkey passenger train service to Delph via Greenfield was withdrawn.\n\nThe A62 road runs just south of the village and was previously the main thoroughfare from Manchester and Oldham into Huddersfield and Leeds, although now sees comparatively lower traffic levels upon the opening of the M62 around 5 miles north of Delph. Local buses run to Oldham and Ashton-Under-Lyne.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081678", "title": "Extreme Blue", "text": "Extreme Blue\n\nExtreme Blue is one of IBM's internship program for both graduate and undergraduate students; it also serves as a placement opportunity for future IBM employment due to the significant effort put into placement of the interns.\n\nExtreme Blue was created in 1999 by Jane Harper. It began at the Lotus Software site in Cambridge, Massachusetts. In 2003, Extreme Blue participants filed 98 patents.\n\nIn 2007, 10,000 applications were received for 92 positions in the U.S.; over 10,000 students applied for 220 positions worldwide. At the 2008 National Council for Work Experience (NCWE) award ceremony, the UK Extreme Blue program received the \"Over 250 Employees – Short term placement\" award. In 2009, according to an Extreme Blue manager, over 10,000 applications were received for fewer than 50 US positions.\n\nSince its inception, the program has expanded to include 15 active international locations.\nExtreme Blue uses IBM engineers, interns, and business managers to develop technology and business plans for new products and services. Each summer an Extreme Blue team also works on a project. These projects mostly involve rapid prototyping of high-profile software and hardware projects. Publicly released projects include the following:\n\nIn 2004, there were 44 Extreme Blue teams in North America.\nIn 2002, there were 101 interns in North America from 42 schools.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081683", "title": "GWR 7800 Class", "text": "GWR 7800 Class\n\nThe Great Western Railway (GWR) 7800 Class or Manor Class is a class of 4-6-0 steam locomotive. They were designed as a lighter version of the GWR Grange Class, giving them a wider Route Availability. Like the 'Granges', the 'Manors' used parts from the GWR 4300 Class Moguls but just on the first batch of twenty. Twenty were built between 1938 and 1939, with British Railways adding a further 10 in 1950. They were named after Manors in the area covered by the Great Western Railway. Nine are preserved.\n\nAlthough successful mixed traffic designs, neither the Hall nor the Grange 4-6-0 classes were able to cover the full range of duties previously undertaken by the 4300 Class 2-6-0 locomotives due to their ‘red’ weight classification. By the late 1930s a lighter version of the Grange class was urgently required for those cross-country and branch line duties forbidden to heavier locomotives. A new lighter (Swindon No.14) boiler was therefore designed, and as with the Grange Class, the driving wheels and motion components were recovered from withdrawn members of the 4300 Class. The Manor class, with an axle loading of just over 17 tons, could be utilised on many lines from which the heavier Granges were barred \n\nThe first of the Manors No.7800 \"Torquay Manor\" was built at Swindon Works and entered traffic in January 1938. By February 1939 twenty were in service but outbreak of war forced the cancellation of construction of a further batch of twenty locomotives. \nAfter nationalisation, the newly created Western Region of British Railways was authorised to build ten more of the class. Nos.7820-29 at Swindon in November and December 1950. A batch of ten other locomotives was planned to be released, but the batch was cancelled.\n\nThe cancelled list includes the following:\n\n7830 \"Norton Manor\",\n7831 \"Ogwell Manor\",\n7832 \"Pimley Manor\",\n7833 \"Ramsbury Manor\",\n7834 \"Rodley Manor\",\n7835 \"Standen Manor\",\n7836 \"Sutton Manor\",\n7837 \"Thorton Manor\",\n7838 \"Widford Manor\", and\n7839 \"Wilcote Manor\"\n\nUnlike the Granges of 1936 where the use of a standard design and the re-use of existing components had produced a masterpiece, the initial performance of the Manors was comparatively mediocre. ‘Were it not for the constraints of war there is every reason to expect that Swindon would have recalled the engines for modifications’\nThere was no attempt to improve the steaming; a British Railway edict permitted construction only of existing pre-nationalisation designs. Subsequent trials showed the engines did not require too much work to correct their faults. Internal alterations to the blastpipe and an increase in air space in the firegrate added to the new type of narrow chimney noticeably improved the draughting. After trials on ten of the class, the improvements became standard after July 1954.\n\nThe first examples were despatched to depots at Wolverhampton, Bristol, Gloucester, Shrewsbury, Westbury in Wiltshire and Neyland in South Wales. In October 1938 No.7805 \"Broome Manor\" underwent clearance tests between Ruabon and Barmouth. Subsequently, the class were used over the main lines of the erstwhile Cambrian Railways, with its headquarters and works in Oswestry. The Manors were also successfully employed in the West Country where they were used for banking and piloting trains over the Devon banks between Newton Abbot and Plymouth. Their light axleloading also allowed them across the Tamar Bridge and on to the branch lines of Cornwall.\n\nBy 1959 twenty-one Manors were congregated in Mid- and South Wales. Their most prestigious working was the Cambrian Coast Express, where a Manor took over from a King or Castle at Shrewsbury and worked through to Aberystwyth. Others of the class operated in the Birmingham, Gloucester and Hereford areas while the handful stationed at Reading frequently ventured on to the Southern Region line to Guildford and Redhill.\n\nThe first Manor to be withdrawn was No.7809 \"Childrey Manor\", of Shrewsbury depot in April 1963 and which was cut up at Swindon. By May 1965 the numbers had been halved and the final two in service, No.7808 \"Cookham Manor\" of Gloucester, and No.7829 \"Ramsbury Manor\" of Didcot, were condemned in December 1965. Remarkably, for a relatively small class where thirty engines were built, nine examples have been preserved.\n\nAll nine members of the Manor class that have survived into preservation have operated at some point in their preserved career and of the nine Manors to survive in preservation, all four of the GWR built Manors have seen main line operation: Nos. 7802 \"Bradley Manor\", 7808 \"Cookham Manor\", 7812 \"Erlestoke Manor\" and 7819 \"Hinton Manor\".\n\nIn the 1970s, no. 7808 \"Cookham Manor\" was used by the Great Western Society (GWS) to haul nine vintage ex-GWR carriages on an annual outing on the main line from Didcot to Birmingham. Today 7808 is on static display inside the GWS shed at Didcot awaiting an overhaul.\n\n7812 \"Erlestoke Manor\" only worked a small number of railtours between April and June 1982. Also certified for main line operation in the 1980s was fellow SVR based engine 7819 \"Hinton Manor\". It worked a number of railtours along former Great Western routes including the Cambrian Coast Line. 7812 was until New Year's Eve 2017 operational on the SVR but wasn't main line certified and 7819 was until Aug 2018 on static display in Swindon, the engine is now stored awaiting an overhaul.\n\n7802 \"Bradley Manor\" was the last and most recent member of the class to have operated on the national network. Its last overhaul was completed in November 2015, however it is not certified to operate on the main line.\n\nNone of the BR built Manors have operated on the main line in preservation.\n\nSee: List of GWR 7800 Class locomotives for all Manor locomotives built. Nine locomotives have been preserved:\n\nPrior to 2011, Ixion created a model of the 78xx in N scale. Dapol purchased the rights to produce the Ixion 78xx in 2011.\n\nIn 4 mm scale a model was produced by Mainline Railways, later Bachmann Branchline. It is not currently in production.\n\nDapol have announced a 78xx for OO, coming 2021\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081684", "title": "Baron Broughshane", "text": "Baron Broughshane\n\nBaron Broughshane, of Kensington in the County of London, was a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom. It was created on 19 September 1945 for William Davison, who had earlier represented Kensington South in the House of Commons as a Conservative. The title became extinct on the death of his younger son, the third Baron (who had succeeded his elder brother in 1995), on 24 March 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081686", "title": "ISEP", "text": "ISEP\n\nISEP may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081690", "title": "Carl Foreman", "text": "Carl Foreman\n\nCarl Foreman, CBE (July 23, 1914 – June 26, 1984) was an American screenwriter and film producer who wrote the award-winning films \"The Bridge on the River Kwai\" and \"High Noon\", among others. He was one of the screenwriters who were blacklisted in Hollywood in the 1950s because of their suspected communist sympathy or membership in the Communist Party.\n\nHe once said his most common theme was \"the struggle of the individual against a society that for one reason or another is hostile.\" He elaborated that \"the stories that work best for me involve a loner, out of step or in direct conflict with a group of people.\"\n\nBorn in Chicago, Illinois, to a working-class Jewish family, he was the son of Fanny (Rozin) and Isidore Foreman.\n\nHe studied at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign. In 1934 at age 19 he quit college to go to Hollywood. \"I was mostly on the bum and saw the underside of Hollywood,\" he later said.\n\nHe soon returned to Chicago and attended the John J. Marshall School of Law, working at a grocery store to earn money.\n\nForeman dropped out of law school and worked as a newspaper reporter, fiction writer (selling stories to \"Esquire\"), press agent, play director and carnival barker. \"I was one of the few college trained barkers in the business,\" he said.\n\nForeman returned to Hollywood in 1938. He worked as a story analyst for several studios and as a film laboratory technician, while continuing to write. He was a member of the Communist Party from 1938 to 1942. \"The idea was just in the air,\" he later said.\n\nHe won a scholarship for a screenwriting course where his teacher was Dore Schary. He later gave credit to Michael Blankfort for mentoring him.\n\nForeman's first screen credit was for producer Sam Katzman at Monogram Pictures, \"Bowery Blitzkrieg\" (1941), starring the East Side Kids.\n\nForeman then provided the original story (for $25) and wrote a script (for $200) for the next East Side Kids film, \"Spooks Run Wild\" (1941), with Bela Lugosi. Also at Monogram he provided the story for and wrote the script of \"Rhythm Parade\" (1942). \"I expected recognition but hardly anyone noticed,\" he said later.\n\nForeman's career was interrupted by service in the United States military during World War II. He served with the U.S Army Signal Corps and was assigned to a unit that made orientation and training films, run by the director Frank Capra. During his time in the services he helped write the script for \"\" (1945). He provided the original story for a John Wayne Western, \"Dakota\" (1945). Foreman says \"I began to learn the craft in a serious way,\" in this time.\n\nOn his return to Hollywood, Foreman became associated with producer Stanley Kramer and George Glass. Kramer produced Foreman's next credited script, \"So This Is New York\" (1948), starring comedian Henry Morgan, for The Enterprise Studios and directed by Richard Fleischer. It was a mild success. Foreman then wrote a movie for Fleischer at RKO, \"The Clay Pigeon\" (1949).\n\nKramer and Foreman's next film, the boxing tale \"Champion\" (1949), was a big success, making a star of Kirk Douglas. Foreman received an Academy Award nomination for his script.\n\n\"Champion\" had been directed by Mark Robson and he, Kramer and Foreman reunited on \"Home of the Brave\" (1949), an adaptation of Arthur Laurents' play. It was another critical and commercial success.\n\nKramer and Foreman's third film together was \"The Men\" (1950), which introduced Marlon Brando to cinema audiences; he played a paraplegic soldier. The film, directed by Fred Zinnemann, was critically acclaimed although not a popular success. Also acclaimed was their fourth film, \"Cyrano de Bergerac\" (1950), which won star Jose Ferrer a Best Actor Oscar. It was adapted from Brian Hooker's English translation of Edmond Rostand's \"Cyrano de Bergerac\".\n\nWithout Kramer, Foreman worked on \"Young Man with a Horn\" (1950), with Douglas.\n\nForeman and Kramer's next collaboration was the Western, \"High Noon\". During production of the film, Foreman was summoned to appear before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC). He testified that he had been a member of the American Communist Party more than ten years earlier while still a young man but had become disillusioned with the Party and quit. As a result of his refusal to give the names of fellow Party members, Foreman was labeled as an \"uncooperative witness\" and blacklisted by all of the Hollywood studio bosses.\n\n\"High Noon\" is seen by some as an allegory for McCarthyism. The Western film is considered an American classic and was No. 27 on American Film Institute's 100 Years, 100 Movies, and has been selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry. This would be the last film he would be allowed to work on by a Hollywood studio for the next six years. \"High Noon\", the film that was Foreman's greatest screenwriting accomplishment, made no mention of him as associate producer but did credit him for the screenplay, and he did receive an Academy Award nomination for his script from his fellow members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.\n\nIn October 1951 Foreman sold his interest in the Stanley Kramer Corporation for a reported $250,000. He formed a new company, Carl Foreman Productions, where the stockolders included Gary Cooper. Foreman signed a three-picture deal with Robert L. Lippert to write, produce and direct. Lippert said he \"had no doubt for Foreman's Americanism.\" However no films resulted. Public pressure forced such investors as Gary Cooper to withdraw their support. Foreman successfully sued the State Department for a passport, which had been denied him because of the blacklisting, and in 1952 he emigrated to England.\n\nForeman later said if the blacklist \"hadn't happened I was moving towards becoming a director. That was where the action was.\"\n\nThere were a number of blacklisted writers in England at the time, such as Ring Lardner, Jr.. As \"Derek Frye\" he and fellow blacklistee Harold Buchman wrote the thriller \"The Sleeping Tiger\" (1954) which was directed by another blacklistee, Joseph Losey. Foreman would use the names of his friends, Herbert Baker, John Weaver, and Alan Grogan, on his scripts as a personal signature.\n\nIn November 1953 the State Department ordered Foreman to surrender his passport with the American Consul, and in September 1954 they ruled Foreman was not entitled to his passport.\n\nIn 1954 Foreman worked as assistant for Alexander Korda. \"I was very angry full of rage and self pity,\" he said of this time.\n\nAfter working on \"Born for Trouble\" (1955), he wrote a draft of the screenplay for \"The Bridge on the River Kwai\" (1957) for Sam Spiegel and David Lean. Foreman later fell out with Lean, but was the one who recommended his replacement, fellow blacklisted writer Michael Wilson. Based on the novel by Pierre Boulle, the two were not given screen credit and the Academy Award for Writing Adapted Screenplay went to Pierre Boulle, who did not speak English. This was only rectified posthumously in 1984 and his name was added to the award. However as early as 1958 Foreman was publicly claiming credit of the script.\n\nForeman also worked uncredited on \"A Hatful of Rain\" (1957), directed by Zinnemann.\n\nEventually a court ruled that the State Department could not take away someone's passport without a quasi-judicial hearing. In January 1956 Foreman was given his passport back. In August 1956, at Foreman's request, he came to the United States and testified in executive session before the House Un-American Activities Committee, but refused to become an informant.\n\n\"Bridge on the River Kwai\" had been a massive commercial and critical success, and Foreman's contribution had not gone un-noticed. He set up his own production company, Highroad and in March 1957 signed a deal with Columbia Pictures, who had released \"Kwai\", to make four films over three years.\n\nIn 1957 he announced he would make \"Insurrection\" about the 1916 Easter Rebellion with director John Guillermin. It was not made.\n\nForeman wrote and helped produce \"The Key\" (1958), a war film directed by Carol Reed. Highroad then made the Peter Sellers comedy \"The Mouse that Roared\" (1959), a big hit. \"Mouse\" was meant to be part of a four picture slate from Foreman worth $11 million, the others including \"The Guns of Navarone\", \"The League of Gentlemen\" and \"Holiday\".\n\nForeman wrote and produced \"The Guns of Navarone\" (1961), based on a best selling novel. Foreman fired director Alexander Mackendrick shortly before production. The resulting movie was a massive hit. He was meant to follow it with \"The Holiday\" with Anthony Quinn, Charles Boyer, Earl Holliman and Ingrid Bergman., but the film was subsequently never produced.\n\n\"Navarone\"'s success enabled Foreman to direct as well as produce and write his next film, \"The Victors\" (1963) for Columbia. Although another war story, it was a box office disappointment.\n\nHe signed a contract with MGM to adapt \"The Forty Days of Musa Dagh\", at a fee of $275,000, but this film was never made either. In 1962 he said \"the bulk of Hollywood movies are old fashioned and creaky. There is nothing here to compare with the ferment of Great Britain, Italy, France or even Poland.\"\n\nForeman's next big success was the smash hit 1966 film \"Born Free\" which Foreman presented.\n\nIn 1968 Foreman announced he would present a musical, \"The House of Madame Tellier\" based on a story by Guy de Maupassant with music by Dimitri Tiomkin and book and lyrics by Freddy Douglas. However, it was not produced.\n\nHe wrote and produced \"Mackenna's Gold\" (1969) for Columbia, with the same director (J. Lee Thompson) and star (Gregory Peck) as \"Navarone\". It was his first film shot in the US since \"High Noon\". \"I tried very hard to break the blacklist but I never succeeded,\" he said. The film was a flop.\n\nHowever \"The Virgin Soldiers\" (1969), which his company made for Columbia, was a hit in Britain. His company also made \"Monsieur Lecoq\" (never completed) and \"Otley\" (1969). It developed a project called \"Fifteen Flags\", about the Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War, which was not made.\n\n\"I take no pleasure in being a producer,\" he said in 1968. \"If that hadn't happened I was moving towards being a director. That's where the fun is.\"\n\nForeman's next big production was \"Young Winston\" (1972), which he wrote and produced, with Richard Attenborough directing. It was not particularly successful; neither was \"Living Free\" (1972), a sequel to \"Born Free\".\n\nHe tried to get finance for a film about a rafting trip across the Indian Ocean, \"Finding Ernie\", which he would direct, but it was not made.\n\nIn 1975 Foreman returned to the US, and signed a three picture contract with Universal.\n\nForeman co-wrote and helped produce a sequel to \"Navarone\", \"Force 10 from Navarone\" (1978), but again it did not match the success of its predecessor.\n\nHe executive produced \"The Golden Gate Murders\" (1979) and his last credit was as writer of a disaster movie, \"When Time Ran Out\" (1980), which was a notable flop.\n\nHis final project was writing the screenplay for \"The Yellow Jersey\" a proposed film about the Tour de France bicycle race which was to star Dustin Hoffman.\n\nForeman was elected to the executive council of the British Film Production Association, was made a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and was appointed a governor of the British Film Institute (1965–71), the British National Film School and the Cinematographic Film Council.\n\nHe was president for seven years of the Writers Guild of Great Britain.\n\nIn 1970, Foreman was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire. Such is his influence on the British film industry, that from 1998 to 2009 there was a British Academy Film Award named in his honor; the Carl Foreman Award for the Most Promising Newcomer.\n\nWhen he returned to the US, he served on the advisory board of the American Film Institute, on the public-media panel of the National Endowment for the Arts, and on the executive board of the Writers Guild of America. He was also a member of the board of directors of the Center Theater Group in Los Angeles.\n\nNearing the end of his life, Carl Foreman returned to the United States, where he died of a brain tumor in 1984 in Beverly Hills, California. The day before he died he was told he would receive his Oscar for writing \"Kwai\".\n\nHis first marriage resulted in the birth of a daughter, Katie, to Estelle; his second marriage brought him two children, Amanda and Jonathan, born in London to Evelyn. He was survived by his mother, Fanny.\n\nForeman's daughter, Amanda Foreman, graduated from Columbia University and Oxford University, where she received a PhD in history. She won the Whitbread Prize for her 1998 best-selling biography \"Georgiana: Duchess of Devonshire\", which was followed in 2011 by the epic non-fiction study \"A World on Fire: Britain's Crucial Role in the American Civil War\".\n\nForeman's son, Jonathan Foreman, graduated in modern history from Cambridge University and a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania, and worked as an editorial writer and senior film critic for the \"New York Post\" before relocating to London in 2004 to work for the \"Daily Mail\". In 2008, he became one of the founders of the monthly British centre-right current affairs magazine \"Standpoint\".\n\n\"High Noon\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s production and release also intersected with the second Red Scare and the Korean War. Foreman was called before HUAC while he was writing the film. Foreman had not been in the Communist Party for almost ten years, but declined to 'name names' and was considered an 'un-cooperative witness' by HUAC. When Stanley Kramer found out some of this, he forced Foreman to sell his part of their company, and tried to get him kicked off the making of the picture. Fred Zinnemann, Gary Cooper, and Bruce Church intervened. There was also a problem with the Bank of America loan, as Foreman hadn't yet signed certain papers. Thus Foreman remained on the production, but moved to England before it was released nationally, as he knew he would never be allowed to work in America.\n\nKramer claimed he had not stood up for Foreman partly because Foreman was threatening to dishonestly name Kramer as a Communist. Foreman said that Kramer was afraid of what would happen to him and his career if Kramer didn't cooperate with the Committee. Kramer wanted Foreman to name names and not plead his Fifth Amendment rights. There had also been pressure against Foreman by, among others, Harry Cohn of Columbia Pictures (Kramer's brand new boss at the time), John Wayne of the Motion Picture Alliance for the Preservation of American Ideals (who said he would \"never regret having helped run Foreman out of this country\" and called \"High Noon\" \"un-American\") and Hedda Hopper of the \"Los Angeles Times\". Cast and crew members were also affected. Howland Chamberlain was blacklisted, while Floyd Crosby and Lloyd Bridges were \"gray listed.\"\n\nIn 2002, PBS television made a two-hour film about Foreman's ordeal during McCarthyism titled \"\". It was written and directed by outspoken conservative Lionel Chetwynd.\n\nForeman was also the subject of an episode of \"\", directed by Terry Sanders and Freida Lee Mock.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081694", "title": "Marsabit", "text": "Marsabit\n\nMarsabit is a town in the northern Marsabit County in Kenya. It is situated in the former Eastern Province and is almost surrounded by the Marsabit National Park and Marsabit National Reserve. The town is located 170 km east of the center of the East African Rift, at 37°58' E, 2°19' N (37.97°E, 2.32 N) at an elevation of between 1300 and 1400 metres. It serves as the capital of Marsabit County, and lies southeast of the Chalbi Desert in a forested area known for its volcanoes and crater lakes and others.\n\nThe town of Marsabit is an outpost of urban civilization in the vast desert of northern Kenya. The town is situated on an isolated extinct volcano, Mount Marsabit, which rises almost a kilometer above the desert. The hills here are heavily forested, in contrast to the desert beyond, with their own \"insular\" eco-system. The town currently has a population of about 5,000.\n\nThe town is mainly inhabited by the Cushitic-speaking Borana Oromo people. There are also very few Nilotic Turkana and Bantu Ameru residents. Additionally, there are also few non-Cushitic-speaking traders.\n\nMarsabit has an airstrip and a mountain peak (Mount Marsabit), with \"singing\" wells just outside the town. Elephants can also often be seen in the local wildlife refuge that surrounds the town, occasionally breaking down fences and causing damage to local farmers' crop beds.\n\nThe name is possibly from the Amharic word 'Marsa bet' (Meaning Marsa's home/house) and is believed to have been named after a farmer named 'Marsa' (ethnically Burji) who was brought to Marsabit from Mega (in Ethiopia) by the Consul to assist in consolidation of farming and permanent settlement on the slopes of Mount Marsabit.\n\nBesides the aforementioned ethnic groups, there are other people from other parts of Kenya who are there working mostly for the government and business. Muslims, Christians and adherents of traditional religions all inhabit the town.\n\nMarsabit is the announced location for a conference between Borana and Gabra elders scheduled for 2–6 June 2009. Discussions to resolve existing conflicts between the two groups have been underway for several years now, and agreements are expected to be sealed at the event at this conference in the presence of traditional leaders.\n\nMarsabit is approximately 550 kilometers or 7 - 8 Hour drive from Nairobi via the towns of Isiolo and Archers Post. Reaching the town was previously a challenge as you had to either hang on top of the trucks or hike lifts in government vehicles. Currently, there are multiple bus services which ply the Isiolo-Marsabit route on a daily basis. It leaves Isiolo for Marsabit at 8pm, arriving between 3 and 5am and leaves Marsabit at 8am arriving in Isiolo between 3 and 7pm. In addition to this, there are other buses which ply the Nairobi-Moyale route, through Marsabit.\n\nThe road has been recently paved and connects all the way to the Kenya-Ethiopia Border at Moyale. It is approximately 277 kilometers from Isiolo and takes between 3 and 4 hours.\n\nThere are two airstrips servicing charter aircraft, one close to town, about 10 minutes' drive towards Moyale (Marsabit Airstrip), and the second about 30 minutes away towards Chalbi (Segel Airstrip). The Mission Aviation Fellowship (MAF) flight is the only regular flight to Marsabit on Tuesdays and Fridays.\n\nMarsabit town is a trading and commercial centre, with three petrol stations, three commercial banks, post office, shops, restaurants, lodges and even a dry cleaner. The town facilitates the supply and movement of goods and services between Moyale (goods from Ethiopia) and Isiolo (goods from Nairobi). Agriculture also plays a role, as many grow millet and maize to be consumed locally and nomadic people supply beef by selling their cows.\n\nLake Paradise (which attracts game animals such as elephants and buffalo), and Bongole Crater located in the heart of the forest are both local attractions for tourists. The town and surrounding area are of rich cultural interest to anthropologists and other researchers.\n\nMarsabit was listed as one of the locations that would experience a total solar eclipse on November 3, 2013. The total solar eclipse would have lasted a maximum of 1 minute and 39 seconds. About 1,000 tourists flocked to Sibiloi national park to get a glimpse of the rare occurrence.\n\nMarsabit has an altitude-influenced dry-summer tropical savanna climate (Köppen climate classification: As).\n\n"}
{"id": "2081696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081696", "title": "Zohra Lampert", "text": "Zohra Lampert\n\nZohra Lampert (born May 13, 1937) is an American actress, who has had roles on film, television, and stage, including as the title character in the 1971 cult horror film \"Let's Scare Jessica to Death\"; she also starred alongside Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty in the 1961 \"Splendor in the Grass\". Lampert achieved critical acclaim for her work on Broadway as well, earning two Tony Award nominations for her roles in \"Look What We've Come Through\" (1962) and \"Mother Courage and Her Children\" (1963). She won a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Drama Series for her role in a 1975 episode of \"Kojak\".\n\nLampert was born in New York City, the daughter of Russian-Jewish immigrants Rachil Eriss, a draper and hatmaker, and Morris Lampert, an architect and ironworker. Lampert attended New York's High School of Music & Art, and then the University of Chicago. She was married to actor Bill Alton from 1957 to 1958.\n\nLampert studied acting at HB Studio. After working on minor stages for several years, including a stint as a member of the Second City troupe in Chicago, she performed on Broadway in a Tony-nominated performance in 1961's \"Look We've Come Through\". She scored with a pair of small, noteworthy performances in the films \"Pay or Die\" and \"Splendor in the Grass\". In the 1960s/1970s, she was active in supporting roles in film and television, and won an Emmy for her performance as a gypsy in an episode of \"Kojak\" (\"Queen of the Gypsies\", 1975). She co-starred with Gena Rowlands in John Cassavetes' \"Opening Night\" (1977).\n\nShe was a regular in the sitcom \"The Girl With Something Extra\" and the medical drama \"Doctors' Hospital\". During the early 1970s, she originated the role of Ellie Jardin on the CBS soap \"Where the Heart Is\" until her character was killed off in 1972. In 1986, she appeared in an episode of \"Knight Rider\" (season 4, \"Hills of Fire\"). She worked less during the 1980s and 1990s. She appeared in \"The Exorcist III\" (playing actor George C. Scott's wife) and the offbeat 1999 film \"The Eden Myth\".\n\nFor several years in the 1980s, Lampert appeared as the spokesperson for Goya Beans.\n\nAfter a ten-year absence from films, Lampert returned to acting in supporting roles in two films: \"The Hungry Ghosts\" (2009) and \"Zenith\" (2010). In March 2010, she married broadcaster and novelist Jonathan Schwartz in New York City.\n"}
{"id": "2081700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081700", "title": "Karlsplatz Stadtbahn Station", "text": "Karlsplatz Stadtbahn Station\n\nKarlsplatz Stadtbahn Station is a former station of the Viennese \"Stadtbahn\". The buildings above ground on Karlsplatz are a well-known example of \"Jugendstil\" architecture. These buildings were included in The Vienna Secession, as they followed many of the artistic styles of that movement. They were designed by Otto Wagner, adviser to the Transport Commission in Vienna, and Joseph Maria Olbrich and are, unlike the other Stadtbahn stations, made of a steel framework with marble slabs mounted on the exterior. These stations allowed Otto Wagner to achieve his goal of creating two modern axes of architecture in a city that was becoming one of the most modern cities of its time. These buildings went on to become the most modern monument of the modern city.\nArchitectural critic and poet Friedrich Achleitner commented on the Stadtbahn stations as follows \"...In these two station buildings Wagner reached a highpoint of his dialectic (in his planning of the Stadtbahn) between function and poetry, construction and decoration, whereby a severe rationalism engages in competition with an almost Secessionist kind of decoration.\" \n\nThe station was opened as \"Akademiestraße\" in 1899. When the \"Stadtbahn\" line was converted to U-Bahn in 1981, the original station was scheduled to be demolished. However, as a result of public outcry, it was decided to keep the station buildings. Both buildings were disassembled, renovated, and then reassembled two metres higher than their original location after completion of U-Bahn construction. One of the buildings is now used as an exhibition space by the Vienna Museum, with an U-Bahn entrance in its rear; the other is used as a café.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081702", "title": "E. W. Kenyon", "text": "E. W. Kenyon\n\nEssek William Kenyon (1867–1948) was a pastor of the New Covenant Baptist Church and founder and president of Bethel Bible Institute in Spencer, Massachusetts.\n\nKenyon was born on April 25, 1867, in Hadley, New York. At age 17, he was converted in a Methodist prayer meeting. He became a church member in his early twenties and gave his first sermon at the Methodist Church of Amsterdam, New York, where he served as a deacon. Kenyon had a crisis of faith and left the faith for 2 1/2 years prior returning to faith in 1893. \n\nAlthough desiring to be an actor, Kenyon earned a living as a piano and organ salesperson. In an attempt to hone his acting skills, Kenyon attended the Emerson School of Oratory in Boston for one year in 1892 studying acting.\n\nKenyon first married Evva Spurling. The two were married on May 8, 1893. Shortly afterward, Kenyon attended the services of Clarendon Street Baptist Church led by pastor Adoniram Judson (A.J.) Gordon. At this service, Kenyon and his wife rededicated their lives to the Lord.\nLater that year, Kenyon joined the Free Will Baptists and became a pastor at a small church in Elmira, New York. In 1898, Kenyon opened Bethel Bible Institute in Spencer, Massachusetts, which remained in operation until 1923. He was its president for twenty-five years. \n\nThe school later moved to Providence, Rhode Island, and became Providence Bible Institute. It later became Barrington College and merged with Gordon College, which was named after one of Kenyon's many mentors, A. J. Gordon. It is now known as Gordon College.\n\nEvva Kenyon died in 1914. Subsequently, Kenyon married Alice M. Whitney and had a son and a daughter with her. In 1948, E. W. Kenyon died, and his daughter Ruth, with whom he was living, continued on with his publishing ministry..\n\nIt has been suggested by some that Kenyon was the originator of the modern \"positive confession\" theology which is prevalent in Word of Faith Pentecostalism. Proponents of this view suggest that Kenyon's religious views were heavily influenced by the New Thought Movement during his time at the Emerson School, and that he developed the teaching of positive confession from that influence.\n\nAccording to Kenyon biographerJoe McIntyre, the actual influence Kenyon's time at Emerson had on his religious views is debatable. Instead, McIntyre suggests that Kenyon developed his positive confession teaching primarily from the teachings of Holiness Movement, Faith Cure and Higher Life movement ministers of the late 19th Century. \n\nEvidence that the teaching of positive confession was already developing in Christianity before Kenyon is present in time period literature. In the 1884 book \"The Atonement for Sin and Sickness\", Russell Kelso Carter demonstrates an early version of what Kenyon later taught: \"I only prayed, O, Lord, make me sure of the truth, and I will confess it; I have nothing to do with consequences; that is Thy part,\" and again, \"Jesus has the keeping part, I have the believing and confessing.\"\n\nKenneth Erwin Hagin, Sr., most commonly receives credit for the Word of Faith Movement, and he openly acknowledged some of E.W. Kenyon's thoughts at times. Some of E.W. Kenyon's ideas regarding Word of faith have been acknowledged by Word of Faith teachers like Kenneth Erwin Hagin, Sr., Kenneth Copeland, Joel Osteen, and many others. \n\n\nReprints:\n\n"}
{"id": "2081704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081704", "title": "Husein Hasanally Abdoolcader", "text": "Husein Hasanally Abdoolcader\n\nSir Husein Hasanally Abdoolcader, (10 September 1890 – 16 June 1974) was a barrister and politician in Malaya born in Surat, Bombay Presidency, British India.\n\nHe was educated first in Malaya, at Raffles Institution, Singapore and Penang Free School, Penang. He was sent to England and went to Ilford County High School and Christ's College, Cambridge, then joined Lincoln's Inn.\n\nHe was:\n\n\nHe was awarded the George V Silver Jubilee Medal, 1935 and the George VI Coronation Medal, 1937. He was made a CBE in 1938 and knighted in 1948.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081714", "title": "Lerata", "text": "Lerata\n\nLerata is a village in northern Kenya, between Marsabit and Shaba, Kenya. It is in an area populated by the Samburu people. Lerata is located along the A2 road, not far north of Archers Post. The C79 road towards Maralal and Baragoi has its eastern end in Lerata. Lerata is part of the Waso East ward in Samburu East Constituency and Samburu County Council of Samburu County.\n"}
{"id": "2081715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081715", "title": "GWR 6800 Class", "text": "GWR 6800 Class\n\nThe Great Western Railway (GWR) 6800 Class or Grange Class was a mixed traffic class of 4-6-0 steam locomotive, built to replace the GWR 4300 Class 2-6-0. There were 80 in the class, all built at the Swindon works, using some reconditioned parts from withdrawn 4300 Class locomotives .\n\nThe GWR locomotive standardisation policy pursued by G.J. Churchward envisaged a range of locomotive classes which would be suitable for the majority of duties, and yet which would share a small number of standard components. Amongst the designs suggested in 1901 was a 4-6-0 with diameter driving wheels, and the Standard No. 1 boiler. Although planned in 1901, none were built during Churchward’s lifetime. C.B. Collett, (Churchward’s successor at Swindon Works) rather introduced the Hall class with diameter driving wheels.\n\nThe 4300 Class of 2-6-0 tender locomotives had been introduced on the GWR for mixed traffic duties in 1911, and by 1932 there were 342 in service. However, by the mid 1930s some of the earlier examples were in need of attention and the class as a whole was struggling with some of the duties expected of them. Collett therefore revived the Churchward proposal, but modified the design to include a cab and controls to the current style.\nBetween 1936 and 1939, one hundred 4300 Class were taken out of service and replaced by new 4-6-0 locomotives, eighty of which were of the 6800 (or \"Grange\") class, whilst the remaining 20 were of the 7800 (or \"Manor\") class. It had been intended to replace all of the 4300 Class in this way, but the Second World War stopped the programme.\n\nThe Granges were effectively a smaller-wheeled version of the GWR Hall Class.\n\nThe wheels, valve motion and tenders were taken from the withdrawn engines, reconditioned and then used in the construction of the 100 new locomotives; the components from one old locomotive were spread amongst more than one of the new engines. The cylinders of the \"Granges\" were of the same size as those used on the 4300 Class, but the old cylinders could not be re-used because the cylinders and valves shared a common casting, and the new design called for the separation between cylinder and valve centre lines to be increased by . This was done in order to make the cylinders level with the axles, but still allow the use of the old valve motion parts.\n\nThe locomotives were built in two batches to a single order (Lot No. 308): Nos. 6800-6859 were built between August 1936 and December 1937, and Nos. 6860-6879 appeared between February and May 1939. They were all named after Granges in the area covered by the GWR. Further construction of the class was cancelled due to the outbreak of war. They were originally fitted with Churchward tenders taken from withdrawn members of the 4300 Class. However, after the second world war several were fitted with newer and types.\n\nAlthough built to a thirty five-year old design, in service they proved to be reliable performers. With their power and mixed traffic characteristics they could handle most duties on the network. Their smaller driving wheels giving them a higher tractive effort than the Hall Class. They were often used for the haulage of perishable goods, such as fruit and broccoli, and for excursion trains. However their axle loading prevented their use on some cross-country routes previously operated by the 4300 class. As a result, a lighter version in the form of the Manor Class was introduced for these duties.\n\nThe BR power classification of the Grange class was 5MT, its GWR power class was D and its route availability colour code was red.\n\n\nThe entire class was withdrawn from service between 1960 and 1965 and no examples were preserved. 6853 \"Morehampton Grange\" was a candidate for preservation by the GWS at Didcot, 7808 was however purchased instead. However, GWR 6880 \"Betton Grange\", the next Grange that was due to be built originally, is currently being built at Llangollen Railway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081720", "title": "Star Wars: Masters of Teräs Käsi", "text": "Star Wars: Masters of Teräs Käsi\n\nStar Wars: Masters of Teräs Käsi is a fighting game developed and published by LucasArts, which was released for the PlayStation in 1997. In the game's story, which is set in the \"Star Wars\" universe, the Emperor seeks retaliation for the destruction of the Death Star and recruits the mysterious Arden Lyn to battle in the art of Teräs Käsi, an unarmed combat discipline, against leaders of the Rebel Alliance. The game features \"Star Wars Legends\" characters, including the Emperor's Hand-turned Jedi Mara Jade.\n\nDevelopment for \"Masters of Teräs Käsi\" was handled internally at LucasArts. It was both the first fighting game and first PlayStation title for the company, which presented challenges. Industrial Light & Magic assisted with motion capture, used for character animations. While spirits were high during the development and promotion of \"Masters of Teräs Käsi\", the game was met with widespread criticism since its release. Criticisms range from a flimsy story to poor fighting mechanics.\n\n\"Star Wars: Masters of Teräs Käsi\" is a fighting game with a 3D gameplay element. The player is able to move their character not only forwards and back using the left and right but can sidestep by using the up and down on the controller. There are three ways to achieve a win: knocking out the opponent, forcing the opponent out of the ring, or having the most health when time runs out. Rounds are timed, and the player must win two of three rounds to be declared the winner of the match.\n\nWith the exception of Thok and Arden Lyn, all of the characters can fight either hand-to-hand or with a weapon, and alternate between the two mid-combat. In weapons mode, the controls are configured with three attack buttons and a kick button, while in hand-to-hand mode a button is assigned to each limb.\n\nCharacters have an array of melee moves and also a few ranged attacks. The Force does not make an appearance in the game in the traditional sense. Instead, each character builds up a \"Force meter\" as they fight. The player can execute special moves related to the strength of the meter, which can unleash increasingly devastating attacks. In the game's story mode the player selects a character and then fights through a series of opponents in a tournament setting. Upon victory in the tournament players receive a full motion video (FMV) ending for most characters.\n\nAccording to LucasArts, \"Masters of Teräs Käsi\" takes place during \"The Empire Strikes Back\" and \"Return of the Jedi\". The destruction of the Death Star at the hands of Luke Skywalker has severely crippled the Galactic Empire. The Emperor seeks retaliation against Skywalker and the Rebel Alliance and recruits the services of the mysterious assassin Arden Lyn to eliminate the Alliance's key leaders. Luke and the others discover the Empire's plot and challenge Arden, face to face, in the art of Teräs Käsi, an unarmed combat discipline. This pits the rebels in one-on-one fights against the Empire's elite warriors.\n\nThe game was first announced at E3 1996 in Atlanta, Georgia. Internal company hopes were high during the development cycle. Tony Hsieh, project lead on \"Masters of Teräs Käsi\", felt that it \"[would] be hard to go wrong.\" While promoting the game in an issue of \"Star Wars Insider\", writer Jack Lyon stated: \"Short attention span Star Wars freaks will surely dig \"Masters of Teräs Käsi\", LucasArts' first fighting game.\" \"Tekken\" was cited as one of the main influences on the game. A backstory was developed in which Darth Vader uses a mysterious master of Teräs Käsi, Arden Lyn, to eliminate high-ranking members of the rebellion in hand-to-hand combat. Development of the game took approximately 19 months according to lead artist Craig Rundels. Softimage was used for character creation. It was the first LucasArts title developed for the PlayStation. \"No one had programmed a game on the PlayStation [...] We were learning the hardware, how to make art on it, how to program on it while we were developing \"Teräs Käsi\".\" A demo was released on disc in the third issue of \"Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine\".\nThe motion capture facilities and software of LucasFilm partner Industrial Light & Magic (ILM) were used to generate the animation for the characters. The varying heights of the characters presented issues during development, and developers had to find ways to adjust the collision detection based on the opponent. To create the character's reactions to hits, the motion capture data was supplemented with hand-drawn animation. Each character was made up of at least 1,200 polygons. In developing the button combo system the staff wanted buttons to have context with the character's movements. \"We want to make it so that when you hit the left button, you really hit with your left arm in a combo.\"\n\nThe character Arden Lyn was created specifically for the game. The character's design was initially much more androgynous than how she appears in the final game. Some obscure characters, such as Jodo Kast, were included in the game for no more reason than that a member of the development team liked the character and was able to build a compelling model. Jango Fett began life as an alternate costume for Boba Fett before later being cut from the final lineup. Gammorean guard Thok had previously had a film appearance within Jabba's palace in \"Star Wars: Episode VI – Return of the Jedi\". Hoar was another new character created for the game. He was later given additional backstory, including ties to characters in \"\" and the video game \"\". In an interview with \"Destructoid\", Capcom's Seth Killian mentioned that \"Star Gladiator\" was originally pitched as a \"Star Wars\" fighting game. Ultimately the pitch did not succeed and LucasArts instead developed \"Masters of Teräs Käsi\". To promote the game, \"Star Wars: The Official Magazine\" ran a contest in June 1998 in which a black PlayStation console with the \"Star Wars: Masters of Teräs Käsi\" logo on the top was given out.\n\n\"Teräs Käsi\" refers to a martial art used in the game; both words have been borrowed from Finnish (incidentally, also Estonian) and they literally mean \"steel hand\". The developers learned of Teräs Käsi from West End Games' \"Shadows of the Empire Source Book\". In the 2018 film \"\", the character Qi'ra mentions she is trained in the art of Teräs Käsi.\n\n\"Star Wars: Masters of Teräs Käsi\" received mixed to negative reviews from critics. It ranked 10th in ScrewAttack's Top 10 Worst Fighting Games. In the book \"\", author Rob Smith said the game served as a reminder that \"simply attaching the \"Star Wars\" name to a game wasn't enough.\" Smith did note that despite this \"Teräs Käsi\" did have successful sales during the 1997 holiday season. In March 2004, \"GMR\" placed \"Masters of Teräs Käsi\" in its top five \"Star Wars\" game of all time. GameSpot's Jeff Gerstmann felt that the game played like it was \"stuck in slow motion\". He cited sluggish movement, uninteresting combos and unbalanced characters as weak points within the game. Adam Douglas of IGN also responded similarly. Of the controls he said \"I ended up mashing the buttons more than one time hoping the harder I pressed the quicker they’d respond. No such luck.\" Kotaku's Patrick Klepek echoed these statements and further added that the game lacked depth. His colleague Luke Plunkett called \"Masters of Teräs Käsi\" \"possibly the worst \"Star Wars\" game ever made.\" Plunkett felt that it was a wasted opportunity. It was \"something that could have been worthwhile\" he said.\n\nMatt Skorupa of Gamezilla in a more positive review scored the game an 84 out of 100. He stated that the game's character roster and varied environments were selling points for the game. Unlike some of the negative reviews, Skorupa found the button combos simple and \"easy to pull off.\" He did note that non-\"Star Wars\" fans could be put off by the game. IGN's Adam Douglas felt the game had solid graphics, and that the characters match their film and comic counterparts. He also praised the fact that the game's hidden characters were \"cool as well.\" In \"Next Generation\"s review of the game it received only two stars out of five. The reviewer stated that \"If it weren't for the license, this game would be about as generic as they come, which makes playing \"Masters of Teras Kasi\" about as fun as falling into the Sarlac and being digested for a thousand years.\"\n\nSince the release of \"Masters of Teräs Käsi\" some attempts have been made to re-introduce Star Wars within in the fighting game genre. An untitled prototype \"Star Wars\" fighter was under development at Studio Gigante in 2005, but ultimately was rejected. The idea of using \"Star Wars\" characters in a fighting game would resurface when Yoda, Starkiller and Darth Vader became playable characters in \"Soulcalibur IV\". Another \"Star Wars\" fighting game, this time based on the 2008 television series \"\", was released in 2008. \"\" was released exclusively for the Wii. Like \"Masters of Teräs Käsi\" it received mixed to average reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081721", "title": "Dennis Spooner", "text": "Dennis Spooner\n\nDennis Spooner (1 December 1932 – 20 September 1986) was an English television writer and script editor, known primarily for his programmes about fictional spies and his work in children's television in the 1960s. He had long-lasting professional working relationships with a number of other British screenwriters and producers, notably Brian Clemens, Terry Nation, Monty Berman and Richard Harris, with whom he developed several programmes. Though he was a contributor to BBC programmes, his work made him one of the most prolific writers of televised output from ITC Entertainment.\n\nSpooner was born in Tottenham, London. Following a brief spell as a professional footballer with Leyton Orient, Spooner completed his National Service with the Royal Air Force where he met Tony Williamson, with whom he formed an amateur writing partnership. During the 1950s Spooner returned to office work, and met and married his wife Pauline.\n\nSpooner did not desire a career in business and tried to break into the entertainment industry through performance, forming a comedy double act with Benny Davis, now a journalist living in Spain. They worked the London circuit, but found only moderate success. Spooner then turned to writing and began selling half-hour comedy scripts to the BBC TV comedian Harry Worth. This eventually led to his writing several scripts for \"Coronation Street\" in 1960. He also contributed to the ITV police procedural series \"No Hiding Place\" and \"Ghost Squad\" as well as to the top-rated comedy series \"Bootsie and Snudge\" and to ATV's attempt to revive Tony Hancock's career in \"Hancock\" (1963).\n\nAround this time Spooner met Brian Clemens; they struck up a partnership that lasted for the rest of Spooner's career. Clemens offered the young writer work on \"The Avengers\" which was near the beginning of its nine-year run on ITV. Clemens bought two more of Spooner's scripts in that first year, making Spooner a fairly important writer during the Ian Hendry era of the programme.\n\nWhile his work in the spy fiction genre was the dominant feature of his writing career, Spooner also made several key contributions to children's drama. Most active in the genre from 1964 to 1966, he was a contributor to both the Gerry Anderson and \"Doctor Who\" universes. It was to this genre that he returned at the end of his life. His final sale was the episode \"Flashback\" for the children's supernatural anthology, \"Dramarama\".\n\nAfter Spooner befriended Gerry and Sylvia Anderson in the early 1960s, they offered him a chance to write for their new Supermarionation puppet TV series, \"Supercar\". Although these scripts were unused, Spooner successfully submitted scripts for the Andersons' next programme, \"Fireball XL5\" in 1962. After two episodes there he received more substantial work on \"Stingray\" and \"Thunderbirds\", writing almost 20 episodes for the two series. Although \"Thunderbirds\" was the last major work that he did for the Andersons, he returned in the 1970s to write single episodes of the more adult-oriented \"UFO\" and \"The Protectors\". His final work for the Andersons was to write some additional scenes required to knit the first and 17th episodes of \"\" into a feature-length release, known as \"Alien Attack\". Spooner's work on the early Anderson programmes was also his first regular work for ITC Entertainment.\n\nSpooner worked on \"Doctor Who\" almost exclusively in the formative William Hartnell era. He served as script editor from \"The Rescue\" to \"The Chase\". By the time Spooner left, the only remaining original character was the Doctor himself and one of Spooner's major goals during this period was to prove that the programme could survive major cast changes. This was partly achieved through the gradual introduction of humour, as is evident in the scripts Spooner himself wrote. The BBC's episode guide notes that \"it is for its innovative use of humour that \"The Romans\" will always be best remembered, and in this respect it represents a worthwhile attempt at finding new dramatic ground for the series to cover\". It was a change that resounded with the public, helping an episode of \"The Romans\" to receive the highest-ever share in the history of the series.\n\nSpooner was also responsible for helping to foster a new paradigm for the historical type of adventure. It was he who fully developed the notion of the pseudo-historical with his story \"The Time Meddler\". A gag in the previous story, \"The Chase\", had been that Daleks were responsible for the disappearance of the \"Mary Celeste\". In \"The Time Meddler\", however, the central plotline was that actual historical events were a backdrop for a battle between the Doctor and an alien opponent. In sustaining the notion for a full serial, Spooner gave birth to an approach to historical events that has continued through to the most recent series of the programme. \"The Time Meddler\" also represents the first time that another member of the Doctor's race, not yet identified as the Time Lords, appeared (other than his granddaughter, Susan).\nSpooner also had significant experience in writing Dalek episodes. At the behest of the producer Verity Lambert, he and Terry Nation wrote half of the longest \"Doctor Who\" serial in history, \"The Daleks' Master Plan\". His final assignment on the programme was to solve problems with the script for the new Doctor, Patrick Troughton, in the serial \"The Power of the Daleks\".\n\nHowever, Spooner had already been pressed into service on another programme that Terry Nation was script-editing. Enticed by the prospect of working on a programme that would receive attention in the lucrative American market, Spooner left \"Doctor Who\" to help Nation write the majority of the scripts for \"The Baron\" in 1966.\n\nThe move to \"The Baron\" was the start of Spooner's second and more creative period with ITC. Starting in 1967, he became a sort of \"contracted freelancer\": he was obliged to write 10 episodes a year for ITC, but he was not exclusively bound to the company.\n\nAfter \"The Baron\" had a cool reception when broadcast by ABC on American television, the show ended its run in Britain. Spooner then turned to an old friend, the television writer Richard Harris, to help him in creating a new venture, \"Man in a Suitcase\". However, the more significant partnership Spooner initiated in 1967 was with Monty Berman, an ITC producer with whom he launched a production company called Scoton Productions. Between 1967 and 1971 Berman and Spooner created \"The Champions\", \"Department S\", its spin-off \"Jason King\", and \"Randall and Hopkirk (Deceased)\". None of these programmes lasted more than two series, yet they all survived in the public memory long enough to justify video and DVD releases decades later. Indeed, \"Randall and Hopkirk (Deceased)\" was re-imagined by television producers in 2000 for a two-series run. Spooner's time with these programmes revealed not just his great interest in spy fiction, but also his penchant for rewarding friendship. Many former writing partners, including Williamson and Harris, returned to work on Spooner's ITC creations.\n\nDespite his heavy involvement with ITC, Spooner also availed himself of the non-exclusivity of the arrangement. From the late 1960s to the early 1970s he continued to submit scripts to ITV and the BBC. This allowed him to be one of the most prolific writers on \"The Avengers\" during the Tara King era, and to successfully submit scripts to \"Paul Temple\" and \"Doomwatch\".\n\nAfter his contract with ITC lapsed Spooner entered a period of genuine freelance work for the rest of his career. His scripts were accepted for series such as \"Bergerac\" and \"The Professionals\". Nevertheless, as had been his motivation for joining \"The Baron\"—and, really, that of ITC director Lew Grade—Spooner still longed for some success in the United States. To this end he rejoined Brian Clemens. In 1973 Clemens had begun \"Thriller\", an ATV/ITV anthological mystery series that was shown in the United States under the title \"ABC Mystery Theatre\". Although Spooner wrote only two episodes, he was one of only two writers other than Clemens himself to have done so. When Clemens made his next assault on American television, \"The New Avengers\", Spooner played a much larger role: he and Clemens wrote the overwhelming majority of the scripts. So great was Spooner's contribution to \"New Avengers\" that, if considered alongside his work for the parent programme, it makes him the third-most prolific writer for \"The Avengers\", and second only to Clemens for the length of his association with the programme. While this gave Spooner the greatest continuous work of his latter career, neither it nor \"Thriller\" led to a long-term presence in the United States. He continued to try to break into the American market, but sold only one idea to a prime time network show: the third season \"Remington Steele\" episode \"Puzzled Steele\" gave story credit to Spooner, Clemens and fellow scriptwriter Jeff Melvoin.\n\nSpooner was a well-known bridge player and wrote two books, \"Useful Hints for Useless Players\" and \"Diary of a Palooka\". The contents of the latter often appeared first under a column of that name in the publication \"Popular Bridge Monthly\". Spooner played at Harrow Bridge Club. He often added a subtle reference to bridge to his scripts, such as naming a villain who owned two nightclubs \"Stayman\" (after the Stayman convention).\n\nSpooner and his wife Pauline had three children.\n\nHaving heart problems, Spooner died on 20 September 1986 after suffering a heart attack.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081736", "title": "Providence station", "text": "Providence station\n\nProvidence is a railroad station in Providence, Rhode Island, served by Amtrak and MBTA Commuter Rail. The station has four tracks and two island platforms for passenger service, with a fifth track passing through for Providence and Worcester Railroad freight trains. It is now the 11th busiest Amtrak station in the country, and the second-busiest on the MBTA Commuter Rail system outside of Boston.\n\nThe station was built in 1986 during a project to remove elevated tracks from downtown Providence. It is fully handicapped accessible for all trains.\n\nTwo of Amtrak's passenger rail routes serve the station: the \"Acela Express\" and the \"Northeast Regional\". The \"Acela Express\" is the United States' only high-speed rail service; the \"Regional\" is a slower local service. Both connect Providence with the Northeast Corridor from Boston to Washington D.C.\n\nThe Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) also serves Providence. The Providence/Stoughton commuter rail line's southern terminus is located at Wickford Junction, two stops south of Providence. The Providence/Stoughton Line provides commuter service to towns between the airport, Providence and Boston, sharing track with Amtrak trains. In a 2018 count, Providence averaged 2,091 inbound MBTA passengers on weekdays, making it the second-busiest station on the system (after ) outside of Boston\n\nProvidence's first railroad station was built in 1835 by the Boston and Providence Rail Road at India Point. The Providence and Stonington built a depot at Crary Street in South Providence in 1838, and the two were soon connected by a ferry service.\n\nThe first through service stopped at Union Station, a brick edifice built in 1847 by the Providence & Worcester, Providence & Stonington, and Boston & Providence Railroads. It was designed by 21-year-old architect Thomas Alexander Tefft. This building was lost to fire in 1896 and was replaced by a larger Union Station, completed in 1898 by the New Haven Railroad. It consisted of five large brick structures, which still form the northern side of Kennedy Plaza in the center of Downtown Providence.\n\nIn 1986, the Northeast Corridor through Providence was relocated north to free up land from a mass of elevated tracks, popularly called the \"Chinese Wall,\" that had hemmed in downtown Providence. The new and smaller station was built across Gaspee Street from the Rhode Island State House. The five tracks and two platforms are located below ground level underneath the station building.\n\nAmtrak has served Providence since its inception in 1971, with Northeast Corridor trains from Boston to New York and Washington. Local commuter service - both intrastate service and service to Boston - has been intermittent during this era. After Penn Central discontinued their New London to Boston commuter train in 1972, Rhode Island sponsored a short lived Westerly to Providence service (which lasted until 1979) in addition to the MBTA's Providence to Boston service. Sunday service ended in October 1977 and off-peak and Saturday service ended in April 1979 due to Rhode Island's limited subsidies; rush-hour service ceased on February 20, 1981. Rush hour commuter service began again (to the new station) in February 1988, with off-peak service added in December 2000 and weekend service added in July 2006. A new layover facility for MBTA commuter trains, located north of the station in Pawtucket, opened in 2006, allowing the MBTA to increase service to the city. Service was further extended to T.F. Green Airport in December 2010 and to Wickford Junction in April 2012.\n\nAdditionally, some game-day service to Foxboro has run from Providence since 1994, as well as a brief stint in 1971. Special trains run for New England Patriots football games as well as some New England Revolution soccer games and college sporting events.\n\nThe first revenue Acela Express service to Providence was on December 11, 2000, concurrent with the expansion of MBTA service.\n\nIn August 2019, the Federal Railroad Administration awarded RIDOT up to $12.5 million for a 'major rehabilitation' of the station. The $25 million project is also funded by RIDOT ($5.25 million) and Amtrak ($7.25 million).\n\nThe station was designed in the Washington, D.C. office of Skidmore, Owings and Merrill by Milo Meacham under the direction of Marilyn Jordan Taylor. It is a simple building in the brutalist style, with a large square clocktower. Although largely subterranean and lacking the grand scale that was possible in when Union Station was built in 1898, the station has been positively received by critics. The project received a citation in the 1983 Progressive Architecture Awards. Local architectural historian William McKenzie Woodward lauded the building for its aesthetics, calling its saucer dome \"an obvious yet very gracious gesture toward the State House\". In 2010, \"Architect\" praised the forethought of the designers in planning for the revitalization of Providence's downtown, saying that \"[i]ts design accommodated the complex geometries of a circulation pattern oriented toward the Capitol and a structure aligned with the tracks, while its splayed plan opened out to what was then an imagined city, one that Providence eventually made happen.\"\n\nKennedy Plaza, the main hub for RIPTA bus service, is located to the south along Exchange Street. Five RIPTA routes, including the R-Line rapid bus service, operate directly to Providence. Four routes stop on Gaspee Street on the north side of the station:\nTwo routes run on Park Row West on the south side of the station:\n\nA taxi stand is located on Gaspee Street on the north side of the station.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081737", "title": "Intercontinental de Aviación", "text": "Intercontinental de Aviación\n\nAeropesca Colombia / Intercontinental de Aviación was an airline based in Bogotá, Colombia. It operated domestic services and flights to neighbouring countries. Its main base was located at El Dorado International Airport, Bogotá, with a secondary hub at Alfonso Bonilla Aragón International Airport) in Cali.\n\nThe airline was founded and started operations in 1965 as Aeropesca Colombia.\n\nThe airline was forced to cease operating in September 2005 following the crash of West Caribbean Airways Flight 708 in Venezuela. After the crash, the Colombian Civil Aviation authority required that all airlines undergo a special inspection of its maintenance facilities and aircraft. Intercontinental de Aviación was one of three airlines forced to cease operating due to a failure of these inspections (along with Aerotaca and West Caribbean itself).\n\nThe Aeropesca Colombia / Intercontinental de Aviación fleet consisted of:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081738", "title": "Hymenochaetales", "text": "Hymenochaetales\n\nThe Hymenochaetales are an order of fungi in the class Agaricomycetes. The order in its current sense is based on molecular research and not on any unifying morphological characteristics. According to one 2008 estimate, the Hymenochaetales contain around 600 species worldwide, mostly corticioid fungi and poroid fungi, but also including several clavarioid fungi and agarics. Species of economic importance include wood decay fungi in the genera \"Phellinus\" and \"Inonotus\" sensu lato, some of which may cause losses in forestry. Therapeutic properties are claimed for \"Inonotus obliquus\" (\"chaga\") and \"Phellinus linteus\", both of which are now commercially marketed.\n\nThe order was proposed in 1977 to recognize the family Hymenochaetaceae at a higher taxonomic rank. As originally conceived, species within the Hymenochaetales had several morphological features in common, notably brown or brownish basidiocarps (fruit bodies) that turn black in alkali, hyphae lacking clamp connections, and the presence (in most species) of characteristic setae (thick-walled, thorn-shaped cystidia, visible under a hand lens).\n\nSubsequent ultrastructure research showed that the Hymenochaetales had dolipores with imperforate parenthesomes, whereas most Agaricomycetes have dolipores with perforate parenthesomes. Species of the corticioid genera \"Hyphodontia\" and \"Schizopora\" were later found to share this peculiarity, suggesting they might also be related to the Hymenochaetales, though morphologically dissimilar.\n\nMolecular research, based on cladistic analysis of DNA sequences, has substantially expanded and redefined the Hymenochaetales, dividing the order into at least six different clades. The core clade represents the traditional Hymenochaetaceae, excluding the genera \"Coltricia\" and \"Coltriciella\"; another clade includes the corticioid genera \"Lyomyces\" and \"Schizopora\" (Schizoporaceae), together with \"Coltricia\" and \"Coltriciella\" as a subclade; a further clade (Repetobasidiaceae) includes agaricoid \"Rickenella\" species, the clavarioid \"Alloclavaria purpurea\", and various corticioid fungi, including the genus \"Repetobasidium\"; the three remaining clades consist of corticioid \"Hyphodontia\" species, corticioid \"Kneifiella\" species, and poroid \"Oxyporus\" species.\n\nNot all the species currently placed within the Hymenochaetales have dolipores with imperforate parenthosomes, so the order lacks any shared morphological characteristics.\n\nMost fungi within the order are saprotrophs of dead wood, but some species within the Hymenochaetaceae can cause rots of living trees. Species of \"Coltricia\" and \"Coltriciella\" are ectomycorrhizal. Agaricoid species of \"Rickenella\" and related genera are parasites of mosses and liverworts. Distribution of the Hymenochaetales is cosmopolitan.\n\nSeveral wood decay fungi in the genera \"Phellinus\" and \"Inonotus\" sensu lato are pathogenic, causing losses in forestry plantations. Therapeutic properties are claimed for \"Inonotus obliquus\" (\"chaga\") and \"Phellinus linteus\", both of which are commercially marketed as alternative medicines.\n\nSeveral genera in the Hymenochatales are \"incertae sedis\" with respect to familial placement:\n\n"}
{"id": "2081765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081765", "title": "EWeek", "text": "EWeek\n\neWeek (\"Enterprise Newsweekly\", stylized as \"eWEEK\"), formerly PCWeek, is a technology and business magazine, owned by Foster City, California marketing company QuinStreet. \n\nThe print edition ceased in 2012, \"and eWeek became an all-digital publication\"), at which time Quinstreet acquired the magazine from Internet company Ziff Davis, along with Baseline.com, ChannelInsider.com, CIOInsight.com, and WebBuyersGuide.com.\n\n\"eWeek\" was started under the name \"PCWeek\" on Feb. 28, 1984. The magazine was called \"PCWeek\" until 2000, during which time it covered the rise of business computing in America; as \"eWeek\", it increased its online presence and covers more kinds of worldwide technologies.\n\nThe magazine was started by Ziff Davis to cover the use of computers as business tools. \n\nTeam members that started \"PCWeek\" included John Dodge, the first news editor; Lois Paul, the first features editor; and Sam Whitmore, the first reporter, who later went on to become editor-in-chief.\n\nChris Dobbrow, who \"joined Ziff Davis Media ... as the associate publisher of PC Week, ... worked his way up the ladder at Ziff Davis, ... eventually becoming executive vice president.\" A short story in The New York Times about him said \"He left in 2000 to join ... Last week, ... landed .. At eWeek. As the publisher. One step above the job he had 15 years ago.\"\n\nAt the time, many magazines at the time already covered business computing, such as Datamation and Computerworld. There were also magazines dedicated to hobbyist machines, so it seemed there was no place for a weekly issue to fit in. The first few issues had only 22 pages of advertising, but then \"PCWeek\" began establishing itself. By the end of the first year, the average number of advertising pages for the last month was 74.875. \n\nTwice eWeek had stories about The New York Times having its guard down:\n\nAn Atlantic magazine titled \"\"How Not to Get Hacked Like the New York Times\"\" explained how the first hack on the \"Times\" worked; the Times reported on a second (same month) hack against \"NYTimes.com\" with the headline \"Times Site Is Disrupted in Attack by Hackers.\"\n\nJohn Pallatto, a writer for \"PCWeek\" in its first year, produced a full buyer's guide on all DOS-compatible PCs on the market. \n\nEarly promotional publications from \"PCWeek\" show them describing their key audience as \"volume buyers\", that is, people and companies that would buy PCs in bulk for business purposes. With this the magazine was able to show big computer companies that advertising in an issue of \"PCWeek\" was the best possible way to get their product seen by the biggest and most important buyers.\n\n\"PCWeek\" grew. Scot Peterson became eWeek's main editor in 2005, having been, a Ziff-Davis employee \nsince 1995, and previously held the title news editor.\n\nPeople involved in between \"PCWeek's\" initial success and change to \"eWeek\" were David Strom, Sam Whitmore, Mike Edelhart, Gina Smith, Peter Coffee, Paul Bonner, current editor Chris Preimesberger and many others. \n\nJim Louderback, a lab director at \"PCWeek\" as of 1991, describes how they were able to \"get a product in on Wednesday, review it, and have it on the front page on Monday\" and that \"that was something we were the first to do\". \n\nIn 2012, \"eWeek\" and other Ziff Davis assets were acquired by the company QuinStreet, which also runs other tech-oriented publications.\n\nAs the whole PC Industry evolved, \"PCWeek\" grew, and also developed a very active audience that spoke of their experiences, good and bad. \nSuccessor \"eWeek\" is even more oriented towards \"Lab-based product evaluation,\" and covers a wide range tech topics.\n\nAmong former/current writers are:\n\nA famous part of \"PCWeek\" was the fictional gossip columnist by the name of \"Spencer F. Katt\". The column would cover all sorts of rumors and gossip about the PC Industry, and the character of Spencer F. Katt became a famous icon of the entire world of computing.\n\n\"PCWeek\" had influence on the PC Industry that it covered and the success of business PCs contributed to the success of \"PCWeek\". John Pallatto characterizes the rise of PCs in 1985 as a \"social phenomenon\", and says that \"the most sought-after status symbol on Wall Street in 1985... was the key to unlock the power switch on an IBM PC AT\".\n\n\"PCWeek\" was licensed in other countries, notably Australia, where it was first published by \"Australian Consolidated Press\". Towards the end of the 1990s, the title shifted to a publishing partnership between Ziff-Davis and Australian Provincial Newspapers where its final Australian editor was Paul Zucker.\n\nOne story from \"PCWeek\" that is well known is their coverage of \"the famous 1994 flaw in the numerical processor in Intel's Pentium chip\". The news they broke on Intel's processor, along with other research, caused Intel to actually pull back and fix their chips before offering new ones. \n\nCurrent editor in chief Chris Preimesberger, who joined eWEEK in 2005 as a free-lancer, now runs a staff consisting of mostly free-lancers, many of whom have worked full time for eWEEK in the past and at other IT publications. The readership has been loyal through the years and now consists mostly of veteran IT professionals, company executives, software developers, investors and other people interested in the ebb and flow of the IT business and trends in products and services.\n\nAfter 14 years at PC week, Sam Whitmore started his own firm (Media Survey). The latter, after over 2 decades, began a fellowship to train future reporters.\n"}
{"id": "2081770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081770", "title": "Don Pullen", "text": "Don Pullen\n\nDon Gabriel Pullen (December 25, 1941 – April 22, 1995) was an American jazz pianist and organist. Pullen developed a strikingly individual style throughout his career. He composed pieces ranging from blues to bebop and modern jazz. The great variety of his body of work makes it difficult to pigeonhole his musical style.\n\nPullen was born on December 25, 1941, and raised in Roanoke, Virginia. Growing up in a musical family, he learned the piano at an early age. He played with the choir in his local church and was heavily influenced by his cousin, Clyde \"Fats\" Wright, who was a professional jazz pianist. He took some lessons in classical piano and knew little of jazz. At this time, he was mainly aware of church music and the blues.\n\nPullen left Roanoke for Johnson C. Smith University in North Carolina to study for a medical career but soon he realized that his true vocation was music. After playing with local musicians and being exposed for the first time to albums of the major jazz musicians and composers he abandoned his medical studies. He set out to make a career in music, desirous of playing like Ornette Coleman and Eric Dolphy.\n\nIn 1964 he went to Chicago for a few weeks, where he encountered Muhal Richard Abrams' philosophy of making music. He then headed for New York, where he was soon introduced to avant-garde saxophonist Giuseppi Logan, who invited Pullen to play piano on his two albums, \"Giuseppi Logan\" (ESP, October 1964) and \"More\" (ESP, May 1965), both exercises in structured free playing.\n\nSubsequently, Pullen and Milford Graves formed a duo. Their concert at Yale University in May 1966 was recorded. They formed their own independent SRP record label (standing for \"Self Reliance Project\") to publish the result as two LPs. These were the first records to bear Pullen's name, second to Graves'. Although not greatly known in the United States, these avant-garde albums were well received in Europe, most copies being sold there. These recordings have never been reissued.\n\nFinding little money in playing avant-garde jazz, Pullen began to play the Hammond organ to extend his opportunities for work, transferring elements of his individual piano style to this instrument. During the remainder of the 1960s and early 1970s, he played with his own organ trio in clubs and bars, worked as a self-taught arranger for record companies, and accompanied various singers including Arthur Prysock, Irene Reid, Ruth Brown, Jimmy Rushing and Nina Simone.\n\nIn 1972, Pullen briefly appeared with Art Blakey's Jazz Messengers.\n\nPullen often polarized critics and suffered from two undeserved allegations: the first (despite his grounding in the church and blues) that he was purely a free jazz player and thus unemployable in any other context; the second that he had been heavily influenced by Cecil Taylor or was a clone of Taylor, to whose playing Pullen's own bore a superficial resemblance. Pullen strenuously denied that he had any link with Taylor, stating that his own style had been developed in isolation before he ever heard of Taylor. But the assertion of Taylor's influence continued to haunt Pullen to the end of Pullen's life, and persists even to this day.\n\nPullen appeared on no more commercial recordings until 1971 and 1972 when he played organ on three recordings by altoist Charles Williams, one being issued under the title of a Pullen composition, \"Trees And Grass And Things\".\n\nIn 1973 drummer Roy Brooks introduced Pullen to bassist Charles Mingus, and after a brief audition he took over the vacant piano chair in the Mingus group; when a tenor saxophone player was needed, Pullen recommended George Adams; subsequently, Dannie Richmond returned on drums; these men, together with Jack Walrath on trumpet, formed the last great Mingus group.\n\nBeing part of the Mingus group and appearing at many concerts and on three Mingus studio recordings, \"Mingus Moves\" (1973), \"Changes One\" and \"Changes Two\" (both 1974), gave great exposure to Pullen's playing and helped to persuade audiences and critics that Pullen was not just a free jazz player. Two of his own compositions, \"Newcomer\" and \"Big Alice\", were recorded on the \"Mingus Moves\" session, but \"Big Alice\" was not released until a CD reissue many years later. However, musical disagreements with Mingus caused Pullen to leave the group in 1975.\n\nPullen had always played piano with bass and drums behind him, feeling more comfortable this way, but in early 1975 he was persuaded to play a solo concert in Toronto. This was recorded as \"Solo Piano Album\" (Sackville) and became the first record issued under Pullen's name alone. Among other pieces, it contains \"Sweet (Suite) Malcolm\", declared a masterpiece by Cameron Brown, Pullen's longtime associate of later years.\n\nThere was now growing awareness of Pullen's abilities, but it was the European recording companies that were prepared to preserve them. In 1975 an Italian record company gave Pullen, George Adams, and Dannie Richmond the opportunity to each make a recording under his own name. All three collaborated in the others' recordings. In the same year, Pullen made two further solo recordings in Italy, \"Five To Go\" (Horo) and \"Healing Force\" (Black Saint), the latter being received with great acclaim. He became part of the regular seasonal tours of American musicians to Europe, playing in the avant-garde or free mode.\n\nIn 1977, Pullen was signed by a major American record company, Atlantic Records. This led to two records, the atypical Tomorrow's Promises and the live \"Montreux Concert\". But after these, Pullen's association with Atlantic was terminated and he returned to European companies for three recordings under his own name or in partnership: \"Warriors\" and \"Milano Strut\" in 1978, and \"The Magic Triangle\" in 1979. These, especially the startling \"Warriors\" with its strong 30-minute title track, have remained in the catalogues over the years.\n\nMeanwhile, he recorded with groups led by Billy Hart (drums), Hamiet Bluiett (baritone sax), Cecil McBee (bass), Sunny Murray (drums) and Marcello Melis (bass). On the formation of the first Mingus Dynasty band Pullen occupied the piano chair and appeared on their recording \"Chair In The Sky\" in 1979, but he soon left the band, feeling the music had diverged too far from Mingus' intentions.\n\nIn late 1979 Pullen, Adams, and Richmond were booked to play as a quartet for a European tour of a few weeks' duration. Pullen invited Cameron Brown to join them on bass. They were asked to bill themselves as a \"Mingus group\", but not wanting to be identified as mere copyists, they declined and performed as the George Adams/Don Pullen Quartet. They played music that was more structured than Pullen normally favored, but the immediate rapport among them led to the group touring the world with unchanged personnel until the death of Richmond in early 1988. From very early in their first tour in 1979, and until 1985, the quartet made a dozen recordings for European labels, both in the studio and in concert. Of these, \"Earth Beams\" (1980), \"Live At The Village Vanguard\" (1983) and \"Decisions\" (1984) provide typically fine examples of their work at that period.\n\nAlthough highly regarded in Europe, the quartet felt they were not well enough known in America, so in 1986 they signed to record for Blue Note Records, for which they recorded \"Breakthrough\" (1986) and \"Song Everlasting\" (1987). Beginning the Blue Note contract with great hope of increased fame and success, as shown by the title of the first album, they became disillusioned by the poor availability of the two records. Although the power of their live concerts maintained their reputation as one of the most exciting groups ever seen, the music recorded for the Blue Note sessions was at first deemed \"smoother\" than on their European recordings, and took time to achieve the same high reputation.\n\nAfter the death of Dannie Richmond the quartet fulfilled their remaining contracted engagements with drummer Lewis Nash and then disbanded in mid-1988. Their music, usually original compositions by Pullen, Adams and Richmond, had ranged from blues, through ballads, to post-bop and avant-garde. The ability of the players to encompass all these areas, often within one composition, removed any sameness or sterility from the quartet format. Except for the early recordings on the vanished Horo label, their European recordings on Soulnote and Timeless remained frequently available, unlike those made for Blue Note.\n\nDuring the life of the Quartet, Pullen also made a duo recording with George Adams, \"Melodic Excursions\" (1982), and made three recordings under his own name, two further solo albums, the acclaimed \"Evidence Of Things Unseen\" (1983) and \"Plays Monk\" (1984), then with a quintet, another highly praised recording \"The Sixth Sense\" (1985) on Black Saint. He also recorded with (alphabetically) Hamiet Bluiett; Roy Brooks, the drummer who introduced him to Mingus; Jane Bunnett; Kip Hanrahan; Beaver Harris; Marcello Melis; and David Murray.\n\nAll Pullen's future recordings under his own name were for Blue Note. On 16 December 1988 he went into the studio with Gary Peacock (bass) and Tony Williams (drums) to make his first trio album \"New Beginnings\", which astonished even those familiar with his work and became widely regarded as one of the finest trio albums ever recorded. He followed this in 1990 with another trio album, \"Random Thoughts\", in somewhat lighter mood, this time with James Genus (bass) and \"Lewis Nash\" (drums).\n\nIn late 1990 Pullen added a new element to his playing and his music with the formation of his African Brazilian Connection (\"ABC\"). This featured Carlos Ward (alto sax), Nilson Matta (bass), Guilherme Franco and Mor Thiam (percussion) in a group which mixed African and Latin rhythms with jazz. Their first album, \"Kele Mou Bana\", was released in 1991. Their second, but very different, album of 1993, \"Ode To Life\", was a tribute to George Adams, who had died on November 14, 1992,containing Pullen's heartfelt and moving composition in Adams' memory, \"Ah George We Hardly Knew Ya\". A third album, \"Live...Again\", recorded in July 1993 at the Montreux Jazz Festival, was not released until 1995. This featured \"Ah George...\" and other songs from their previous albums, in somewhat extended versions. Pullen achieved more popular and commercial success with this group than with any other. In 1993 \"Ode To Life\" was fifth on the U.S. Billboard Top Jazz Album chart.\n\nDuring the last few years of his life, Pullen toured with his trio, with his African Brazilian Connection, and as a solo artist, but did not release any more solo records. As a sideman and session musician, he left his mark with a variety of noteworthy artists, including (alphabetically) Jane Bunnett (notably their duo album \"New York Duets\"), Bill Cosby, Kip Hanrahan, David Murray's 1991 \"Shakill's Warrior\", Maceo Parker, Ivo Perelman and Jack Walrath. He also toured and recorded with the group Roots from its inception.\n\nPullen's final project was a work combining the sounds of his African Brazilian Connection (extended by Joseph Bowie on trombone) with a choir and drums of Native Americans. Despite his Native American background (his paternal grandmother was half-Indian, probably Cherokee) he began to experiment with American Indian music as late as July 1992. In 1994 Pullen was diagnosed with lymphoma. He continued to put great physical effort into completing the composition. In early March 1995 he played on his final recording, \"Sacred Common Ground\" (with the Chief Cliff Singers, Kootenai Indians from Elmo, Montana), a few weeks away from his death, returning to his heritage of the blues and the church. Unable to play at the live premiere, his place at the piano was taken by D.D. Jackson, with whom Pullen discussed the music from his hospital bed shortly before his death. He died on April 22, 1995 of lymphoma.\n\nPullen composed many pieces, which often were portraits or memories of people he knew. All were published by his own company, Andredon, but because he for a long time suffered from neglect musically, so did many of his compositions. His best known are the humorous \"Big Alice\" (for an imaginary fan), \"Double Arc Jake\" (for his son Jake and Rahsaan Roland Kirk), the passionate \"Ode To Life\" (for a friend), and the aforementioned lament, \"Ah George We Hardly Knew Ya\". Occasionally he wrote pieces with a religious feeling, such as \"Gratitude\" and \"Healing Force\", or to highlight the plight of African-Americans, such as \"Warriors\", \"Silence = Death\", and \"Endangered Species: African American Youth\". Following the assassination of African-American activist Malcolm X, Pullen had written a suite dedicated to Malcolm X's memory, but this required more instrumental resources than a normal-sized jazz group provides, and only the piano parts of this were ever recorded. Except for the \"Plays Monk\" album, Pullen almost exclusively featured his own compositions on his own recordings, until his time with the African Brazilian Connection. His compositions are well represented on the George Adams/Don Pullen Quartet recordings, but his compositions which were recorded by others were usually performed by those who had known and worked with him.\n\nPullen's piano technique can be seen on the DVDs \"Mingus At Montreux 1975\" and \"Roots Salutes The Saxophones\".\n\nSeveral musicians wrote songs as personal tributes to Pullen's memory. David Murray and D. D. Jackson recorded an album, \"\" (1998), dedicated to Pullen and featuring his compositions. Others who wrote tributes include Jane Bunnett, Cameron Brown and Myra Melford. D.D. Jackson also dedicated a piece to him on his CD, \"Paired Down, Vol. I\" (Justin Time Records, 1996), entitled \"For Don\".\n\nIn 2005, Mosaic Records issued a set of four long-unavailable Blue Note recordings: \"Breakthrough\" and \"Song Everlasting\" by the Don Pullen/George Adams Quartet, and \"New Beginning\" and \"Random Thoughts\" by Pullen's own trio.\nAlso, his songs hit big screen movies , \"Big Alice\" in \" The Preacher's Wife\" and \"Once Upon A Time\" in \"Once Upon A Time When We Were Colored\".\n\n\nWith George Adams\nWith the Art Ensemble of Chicago\nWith Hamiet Bluiett\nWith Roy Brooks\nWith Jane Bunnett\nWith Beaver Harris\nWith Billy Hart\nWith Giuseppi Logan\nWith Cecil McBee\nWith Marcello Melis\nWith Charles Mingus\nWith Charles Mingus' Dynasty\nWith David Murray\nWith Sunny Murray\nWith Maceo Parker\nWith Ivo Perelman\nWith Dannie Richmond\nWith Billy Hart\nWith Sam Rivers\nWith Roots\nWith John Scofield\nWith Jack Walrath\nWith Charles Williams\n\n"}
{"id": "2081771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081771", "title": "Phillip Martin", "text": "Phillip Martin\n\nPhillip Martin (March 13, 1926 – February 4, 2010) was a Native American political leader, the democratically elected Tribal Chief of the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians. This federally recognized American Indian tribe has 8,300 enrolled members living on or near 30,000 acres (120 km²) of reservation land in east central Mississippi. Martin had a 40-year record of service to the Tribal government, including 32 years as the Tribe's principal elected official. Chief Martin left office in 2007 after the election of Miko Beasley Denson.\n\nPhillip Martin was born in Philadelphia, Mississippi in 1926, to parents who were Choctaw. He grew up in the culture of his people and attended local schools.\n\nAfter serving in the US Air Force as a sergeant for a decade, Martin returned to his home in Mississippi. He entered tribal leadership in 1957. He was first elected tribal chief in 1979.\n\nNationally, Martin served as president of the National Tribal Chairmen's Association, and in 1969 founded the United South and Eastern Tribes, Inc. (USET), an association of the 23 federally recognized tribes in the eastern portion of the United States. Martin served as founding president of USET. He was the first president of the Board of Regents of Haskell Indian Junior College (now Haskell Indian Nations University), serving from 1970 to 1976. \n\nIn that period, Martin worked with other tribal leaders to acquire and maintain accreditation for Haskell, and to improve campus facilities, including construction of dormitories, a cafeteria, resource center, and field house. In 1992, Martin founded the United South and Eastern Tribes Gaming Association. He helped tribes develop gaming facilities on their reservations to generate revenues for tribal welfare, education and income. At the time of his death, the chief presided over the USET Gaming Association.\n\nLocally, Chief Martin served the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians on numerous Boards of Directorship. During his tenure as Tribal Chief, Martin was known for developing an industrial park on the reservation, and the \"$750 million Pearl River Resort, complete with two casinos, a golf club and a water park... He was praised for creating thousands of jobs. He also set up a scholarship that pays 100 percent of college costs for tribal youth.\" Other Tribal businesses and service operations he established on the Choctaw Indian Reservation include the following:\n\n\nHe wrote a memoir, \"Chief: The Autobiography of Phillip Martin.\" Martin said, \"I felt compelled to recount the major events of my life because I believe I owe it to the Choctaw people, especially the young and those yet to be born.\"\n\nMartin died on February 4, 2010 in a Jackson, Mississippi hospital after suffering a stroke days earlier. \n\n"}
{"id": "2081776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081776", "title": "Guru Dutt", "text": "Guru Dutt\n\nVasanth Kumar Shivashankar Padukone (9 July 1925 – 10 October 1964), better known as Guru Dutt, was an Indian film director, producer and actor. He made 1950s and 1960s classics such as \"Pyaasa\", \"Kaagaz Ke Phool\", \"Sahib Bibi Aur Ghulam\" and \"Chaudhvin Ka Chand\". In particular, \"Pyaasa\" and \"Kaagaz Ke Phool\" have been included among the greatest films of all time, Pyaasa by Time magazine's \"All-TIME\" 100 best movies list and by the 2002 \"Sight & Sound\" critics' and directors' poll, where Dutt himself is included among the greatest film directors of all time.\n\nIn 2010, he was included among CNN's \"top 25 Asian actors of all time\".\n\nHe is most famous for making lyrical and artistic films within the context of popular Hindi cinema of the 1950s, and expanding its commercial conventions, starting with his 1957 film \"Pyaasa\". Several of his later works have a cult following. His movies attract full houses when re-released; especially in Germany, France and Japan.\n\nGuru Dutt was born on 9 July 1925, in Padukone in the present-day state of Karnataka in India into a Konkani Hindu family. He was originally named Vasanth Kumar Shivashankar Padukone but this was changed to Guru Dutt following a childhood accident, the belief being that it was an auspicious choice. His parents were originally settled in Karwar but relocated. Dutt spent his early childhood in Bhowanipore, Kolkata. He spoke fluent Bengali. His sister Lalita Lajmi is a famous Indian painter. His niece Kalpana Lajmi was also a well known Indian film director, producer and screenwriter.\n\nDutt wired home to say he had got the job of a telephone operator at a Lever Brothers factory in Calcutta. But soon he got disenchanted by the job and left it. He later joined his parents in Bombay in 1944.\n\nHowever, his uncle found him a job under a three-year contract with the Prabhat Film Company in Pune in 1944. This once premier film producing centre had already seen the departure of its best talent, V. Shantaram, who had by then launched his own production company called \"Rajkamal Kala Mandir\". It was at Prabhat Film Company that Dutt met two people who would remain his good friends for life – actors Rehman and Dev Anand.\n\nDutt acted in a small role as Sri Krishna in \"Chand\" in 1944. In 1945, he acted as well as assisted director Vishram Bedekar in \"Lakhrani\", and in 1946 he worked as an assistant director and choreographed dances for P. L. Santoshi's film, \" Hum Ek Hain\".\n\nThis contract ended in 1947, but Dutt's mother got him a job as a freelance assistant with Baburao Pai, the CEO of the Prabhat Film Company and Studio. However, after that, for almost ten months, he was unemployed and stayed with his family at Matunga in Bombay.\nDuring this time, Dutt developed a flair for writing in English, and wrote short stories for \"The Illustrated Weekly of India\", a local weekly English magazine.\n\nWhile Dutt was hired by Prabhat Film Company as a choreographer, he was pressed into service as an actor, and even as an assistant director. After Prabhat failed in 1947, Dutt moved to Bombay, where he worked with two leading directors of the time, with Amiya Chakravarty in \"Girls' School\", and with Gyan Mukherjee in the Bombay Talkies film \"Sangram\". Then, Dev Anand offered him a job as a director in his new company, Navketan, after the first movie had flopped.\n\nDutt's first film, Navketan's \"Baazi\", was released in 1951. It was a tribute to the 1940s film noir genre of Hollywood with the morally ambiguous hero, the transgressing siren, and shadow lighting.\n\nDev Anand and Dutt had reached an agreement that if Dutt were to turn filmmaker, he would hire Anand as his hero, and if Anand were to produce a film then he would use Dutt as its director. Anand subsequently used Dutt in his movie \"Baazi\", while Dutt employed Anand in \"C.I.D.\". After Dutt's death, Anand said that \"He was a young man, he should not have made depressing pictures.\"\n\nDutt and Anand would make two super-hit films together, \"Baazi\", and \"Jaal\". Creative differences between Dutt, and Chetan Anand (Anand's elder brother), who was also a director, made future collaborations difficult.\n\n\"Baazi\" was an immediate success. Dutt followed it with \"Jaal\" and \"Baaz\". Neither film did well at the box office, but they brought together the Guru Dutt team that performed so brilliantly in subsequent films. He discovered, and mentored, Johnny Walker (comedian), V.K. Murthy (cinematographer), and Abrar Alvi (writer-director), among others. He is also credited for introducing Waheeda Rehman to the Hindi cinema. \"Baaz\" was notable in that Dutt both directed and starred, not having found a suitable actor for the principal character.\n\nFortune smiled on Dutt's next film, the 1954 blockbuster \"Aar Paar\". This was followed by the 1955 hit, \"Mr. & Mrs. '55\", then \"C.I.D.\", \"Sailaab\" and in 1957, \"Pyaasa\" – the story of a poet, rejected by an uncaring world, who achieves success only after his apparent death. Dutt played the lead role in three of these five films.\n\nHis 1959 \"Kaagaz Ke Phool\" was an intense disappointment. He had invested a great deal of love, money, and energy in this film, which was a self-absorbed tale of a famous director (played by Guru Dutt) who falls in love with an actress (played by Waheeda Rehman, Dutt's real-life love interest). \"Kaagaz Ke Phool\" failed at the box office and Dutt was devastated. All subsequent films from his studio were, thereafter, officially headed by other directors since Dutt felt that his name was anathema to the box office.\n\nDutt also influenced his box office smash hit \"Chaudhvin Ka Chand\". A Muslim love-triangle, the film starred Guru Dutt alongside Waheeda Rehman and Rehman. The film was directed by M. Sadiq and had its title track \"Chaudhvin Ka Chand Ho\" in a special colour sequence. This is the only time one can see Guru Dutt in colour.\n\n\"Sahib Bibi Aur Ghulam\", a critically and commercially successful film, was directed by his protégé, writer Abrar Alvi, which won him the Filmfare Best Director's award. The film starred Tragedy Queen Meena Kumari and Guru Dutt along with Rehman and Waheeda Rehman in supporting roles. The film's star, Waheeda Rehman, denied rumours that the film was ghost-directed by Dutt himself.\n\nIn 1964, Dutt acted in his last film \"Sanjh Aur Savera\", directed by Hrishikesh Mukherjee, opposite Meena Kumari. \"Baharen Phir Bhi Aayengi\" was the last film he was working on at the time of his death. He was replaced as the lead by Dharmendra and the film released in 1966 as his team's last production.\n\nOn 10 October 1964, Dutt was found dead in his bed in his rented apartment at Pedder Road in Bombay. He is said to have been mixing alcohol and sleeping pills. His death may have been suicide, or just an accidental overdose. It would have been his third suicide attempt.\n\nDutt's son, Arun Dutt, considered the death to be an accident. Dutt had scheduled appointments for the next day with actress Mala Sinha and actor Raj Kapoor for his movie \"Baharen Phir Bhi Aayengi\", to discuss the making of colour films. According to him, \"My father had sleeping disorders and popped sleeping pills like any other person. That day he was drunk and had taken an overdose of pills, which culminated in his death. It was a lethal combination of excessive liquor and sleeping pills.\"\n\nAt the time of his death, Dutt was involved in two other projects – \"Picnic\" starring actress Sadhana, and director K. Asif's epic, \"Love and God\". \"Picnic\" remained incomplete and \"Love and God\" was released two decades later with Sanjeev Kumar replacing Dutt in the leading role.\n\nThe extra-feature on the DVD of \"Kaagaz Ke Phool\" has a three-part Channel 4-produced documentary on the life and works of Dutt titled \"In Search of Guru Dutt\".\n\nA Doordarshan documentary on Dutt aired on 10 October 2011.\n\nIn 1953, Dutt married Geeta Roy Chaudhary, later Geeta Dutt, a well-known playback singer. They had been engaged for three years and had to overcome a great deal of family opposition to marry. They had three children, Tarun, Arun and Nina, who grew up in the homes of Dutt's brother Atma Ram and Geeta Dutt's brother Mukul Roy after their parents died.\n\nDutt had an unhappy marital life. According to his brother Atmaram, he was \"a strict disciplinarian as far as work was concerned, but totally undisciplined in his personal life\". He smoked and drank heavily and kept odd hours. Dutt's relationship with actress Waheeda Rehman also worked against their marriage. At the time of his death, he had separated from Geeta and was living alone. Geeta Dutt died in 1972 at age 41, after excessive drinking, which resulted in liver damage.\n\nContrary to a general belief about the viability of his film projects, Dutt more or less produced commercially successful films. Over the years the commercial nature of his projects saw a trade-off with his creative aspirations. Movies such as \"C.I.D.\", \"Baazi\", \"Pyaasa\", \"Kaagaz Ke Phool\", \"Chaudhvin Ka Chand\" and \"Sahib Bibi Aur Ghulam\" were the first of their kind in Hindi cinema. The only movie produced by Dutt that was considered a box office disaster was \"Kaagaz Ke Phool\", which is now a cult classic. He lost over Rs. 17 crore producing that film, a large amount by the standards of that time, which was more than recovered by his next project, \"Chaudhvin Ka Chand\". He never lost faith in his team or in the distributors of his films. Once a project was over, he would begin anew – with little concern about the commercial success of the previous project. He, along with Raj Kapoor, Mehboob Khan and Bimal Roy, was one of the few Indian film directors able to achieve a healthy blend of artistic and commercial success between the mid-1950s and mid-1960s. His brother Atma Ram dedicated his 1969 directorial \"Chanda Aur Bijli\" to him. \"Pyaasa\" was rated as one of the best 100 films of all time by \"Time\" magazine.\n\nIn the 2002 \"Sight & Sound\" critics' and directors' poll, two of his films, \"Pyaasa\" and \"Kaagaz Ke Phool\", were among the top 160 greatest films of all time. The same 2002 \"Sight & Sound\" poll ranked Dutt at No. 73 in its list of all-time greatest directors, thus making him the eighth-highest-ranked Asian filmmaker in the poll.\n\nA postage stamp featuring Dutt was released by India Post on 11 October 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081782", "title": "Tallaght Strategy", "text": "Tallaght Strategy\n\nIn Irish politics, the Tallaght Strategy was a policy followed by the Fine Gael Party starting in 1987. Under this policy, the Fine Gael opposition party would not oppose economic reforms proposed by the Fianna Fáil minority government in the national interest. This strategy was a major departure from the conventional normalities of Irish political behaviour, with a bitter division between the two main parties Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael dating back to the Irish Civil War of the 1920s.\n\nThe strategy was named after a speech given by Fine Gael party leader Alan Dukes to the Tallaght Chamber of commerce on 2 September 1987:\nAlthough it did not benefit the party directly – Fine Gael gained only four seats in the 1989 general election, and did not form part of the subsequent government – Fine Gael maintain that this policy of cooperation between the opposition and the government laid the foundations for the Celtic Tiger economic boom of the 1990s – \"\"A decision by the Fine Gael opposition to support all moves towards fiscal reform...allowed the fierce spending and tax cuts that began to transform Ireland from a banana republic into a 'Celtic Tiger'.\"\"\n\nDuring an RTÉ interview on 7 September 2008, the Fine Gael leader Enda Kenny, commenting on the worsening economic situation in Ireland said that Fine Gael \"\"would work in the interest of the economy and the people\"\" but ruled out a return to the Tallaght Strategy.\n\nIn October 2010, Minister for Communications, Energy and Natural Resources Eamon Ryan of the Green Party, called for a 'Tallaght Strategy Mark Two' in order to pass the 2011 government budget. Fine Gael rejected calls for a new Tallaght Strategy.\n"}
{"id": "2081790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081790", "title": "Red-veined darter", "text": "Red-veined darter\n\nThe red-veined darter or nomad (\"Sympetrum fonscolombii\") is a dragonfly of the genus \"Sympetrum\".\n\nThere is genetic and behavioural evidence that \"S. fonscolombii\" is not closely related to the other members of the genus \"Sympetrum\" and it will at some time in the future be removed from this genus.\n\n\"Sympetrum fonscolombii\" was named under the protonym \" Libellula fonscolombii \" by the Belgian entomologist Edmond de Sélys Longchamps, in 1840, in honor of the French entomologist Étienne of Fonscolombe (hence the species name). Its name is sometimes spelt \"fonscolombei\" instead of \"fonscolombii\" but Askew (2004) gives the latter as the correct spelling.\n\n\"Sympetrum fonscolombii\" is a widespread and common species in much of central and southern Europe including most Mediterranean islands, North Africa, the Middle East, Mongolia, south-western Asia, including the Indian Subcontinent, the Indian Ocean Islands and Sri Lanka. In Europe it is resident in the south of its range but in some years it migrates northward. From the 1990s onwards has increasingly been found in northwest Europe, including Belgium, Sweden, Finland, Poland, Britain and Ireland. It is the only Libellulidae to be found in the Azores and it is also found on the Canary Islands and Madeira.\n\nIt breeds in a wide range of habitats including marshes, lakes, ponds, permanent and seasonal rivers. It is able to recolonize dry areas after a rainfall.\n\n\"Sympetrum fonscolombii\" can reach a body length of . This species is similar to other \"Sympetrum\" species but a good view with binoculars should give a positive identification, especially with a male.\n\nMales have a red abdomen, redder than many other \"Sympetrum\" species. The frons and the thorax are red-brown. The eyes are brown above and blue/grey below. The wings have red veins and the wing bases of the hind-wings are yellow. The pterostigma is pale yellow with a border of black veins.\n\nFemale are similar but the abdomen is ochre yellow, not red, with two black lines along each side. The wings have yellow veins at the costa, leading edge and base, not red veins as found in the males. The legs of both sexes are mostly black with some yellow.\n\nImmature males are like females but often with more red and a single line along each side of the abdomen.\n\nMale \"S. fonscolombii\" can be mistaken for \"Crocothemis erythraea\" as both are very red dragonflies with yellow bases to the wings, red veins and pale pterostigma. However \"C. erythraea\" has no black on the legs, a broader body and no black on the head. Also \"C. erythraea\" females do not oviposit in tandem. The jizz of these two species is different and with some experience are easy to tell apart.\n\n\"Sympetrum fonscolombii\" can be seen on the wing throughout the year around the Mediterranean and in the south of its range, however, its main flight period is May to October and it is scarce during the winter months. It is a territorial species with the males often sitting on an exposed perch.\n\nAfter copulation the pair stay in tandem for egg laying and pairs can be seen over open water with the female dipping her abdomen into the water depositing eggs. Pairs are known to fly over the sea in tandem dipping into the salt water where the eggs soon perish. The eggs and larvae develop within a few months and \"S. fonscolombii\" unlike most other European dragonflies has more than one generation a year. Some larvae overwinter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081791", "title": "Scooby-Doo on Zombie Island", "text": "Scooby-Doo on Zombie Island\n\nScooby-Doo on Zombie Island is a 1998 direct-to-video animated comedy horror film based on Hanna-Barbera's \"Scooby-Doo\" Saturday-morning cartoons. In the film, Shaggy, Scooby, Fred, Velma, and Daphne reunite after a year-long hiatus from Mystery, Inc. to investigate a bayou island said to be haunted by the ghost of the pirate Morgan Moonscar. The film was directed by Jim Stenstrum, from a screenplay by Glenn Leopold.\n\nPopularity for \"Scooby-Doo\" had grown in the 1990s due to reruns aired on Cartoon Network. The channel's parent company, Time Warner, suggested developing a direct-to-video (DTV) film on the property. The team at Hanna-Barbera consisted of many veteran artists and writers. Much of the original voice actors of the series were re-casted for the film, although Frank Welker returned to voice Fred Jones. It was also the first of four \"Scooby-Doo\" direct-to-video films to be animated overseas by Japanese animation studio Mook Animation. Rock bands Third Eye Blind and Skycycle contribute to the soundtrack.\n\n\"Zombie Island\" contains a darker tone than most \"Scooby-Doo\" productions, and is notable for containing real supernatural creatures rather than people in costumes. The film was released on September 22, 1998, and received positive reviews from critics, who complimented its animation and story. The film was aided by a $50 million promotional campaign, and sponsorship deals with multiple companies. Sales of the film on VHS were high, and it became the first in a long-running series of DTV \"Scooby-Doo\" films. Two decades after the film's release, Warner Bros. developed a sequel, \"Return to Zombie Island\", released in 2019.\n\nThe five members of Mystery, Inc. go their separate ways after becoming bored of mystery solving because culprits are always people in costumes. Daphne Blake, along with Fred Jones, starts running a successful television series. She is determined to hunt down a real ghost rather than a fake one. Fred contacts Velma Dinkley, Shaggy Rogers and his dog Scooby-Doo, and the entire gang is brought back together for Daphne's birthday. They embark on a road trip scouting haunted locations for Daphne's show.\n\nAfter encountering a lot of fake monsters, the gang arrives in New Orleans, Louisiana, fed up by this time. They are invited by a young woman named Lena Dupree to visit her workplace at Moonscar Island, an island allegedly haunted by the ghost of the pirate Morgan Moonscar. Although the gang is skeptical, they go with Lena. On the island, they meet Lena's employer Simone Lenoir, who lives in a large Southern home on a pepper plantation. They also meet the ferryman Jacques and Simone's gardener Beau. Shaggy and Scooby encounter the ghost of Moonscar, who becomes a reanimated corpse, and the gang gets several ghostly warnings to leave. Despite this, they stay overnight, still skeptical. Shaggy sees another ghost, one of a Confederate colonel warning them to leave.\n\nThat night, Shaggy and Scooby are chased by a horde of zombies. Velma suspects Beau while Fred and Daphne capture a zombie. They believe it is a mask until Fred pulls its head off, revealing that the zombies are real. As the horde chases them, the gang gets split in the chaos and Fred drops his video camera in the quicksand, losing film evidence for their show. Shaggy and Scooby discover wax voodoo dolls that look like Fred, Velma, and Daphne in a cave. When they play with the dolls, they involuntarily control the gang's actions with the things they make the dolls do, leaving the gang confused. Shaggy and Scooby drop the dolls and flee when they disturb a nest of bats.\n\nThe rest of the gang and Beau discover a secret passageway in the house. Lena tells them that the zombies dragged Simone away. The passageway leads to a secret chamber for voodoo rituals, where Velma confronts Lena about her lie: the footprints in the passageway were Simone's; she had walked to the chamber as opposed to being dragged away. Simone and Lena use the voodoo dolls to trap the gang. They and Jacques reveal themselves to be evil cat creatures. Simone tells them that 200 years ago, she and Lena were part of a group of settlers on the island who worshiped a cat god. When Moonscar and his crew invaded the island, they chased the settlers into the bayou, leading them to be killed by alligators. Simone and Lena prayed to their cat god to curse Moonscar. Their wish was granted and they were transformed into werecats. They killed the pirates, but remained werecats permanently. Every harvest moon, they lure victims and drain lives to preserve their immortality. The zombies are actually their previous victims (pirates, Confederates, settlers, tourists) who awaken every harvest moon and try to scare people away in order to stop them from suffering the same fate.\n\nShaggy and Scooby disrupt the werecats' draining ceremony. The gang free themselves but the werecats surround them. However, it is too late; the time for the ceremony has passed. Their curse expires and Simone, Lena, and Jacques crumble into dust, allowing the zombies' souls to finally rest in peace. Beau reveals himself to be an undercover police officer who was sent to investigate the numerous disappearances on the island. Daphne asks Beau to guest-star on her show, and they all leave the island in the morning.\n\n\nThe \"Scooby-Doo\" franchise, which by the time of the film's release was nearing its 30-year mark, had entered into a period of diminishing returns in the early 1990s. After the conclusion of the sixth iteration of the series, \"A Pup Named Scooby-Doo\", the character became absent from Saturday-morning lineups. In 1991, Turner Broadcasting System purchased Hanna-Barbera, the animation studio behind \"Scooby\", largely to fill programming at a new, 24/7 cable channel centered on animated properties: Cartoon Network. The advent of cable gave the franchise renewed popularity: rapidly, \"Scooby\" reruns attracted top ratings. \"Zombie Island\" was not the first attempt at a feature-length \"Scooby\" adventure; several television films were produced in the late 1980s starring the character, such as \"Scooby-Doo and the Ghoul School\". In 1996, Turner merged with Time Warner. Davis Doi, in charge at Hanna-Barbera, was tasked with developing projects based on the studio's existing property. Warner executives suggested \"Scooby\", given that the property held a high Q Score, and proposed it could be a direct-to-video feature film.\n\nThe team assembled to work on the production were veterans of the animation business, and had most recently worked on \"\" and \"The Real Adventures of Jonny Quest\". Screenwriter Glenn Leopold had been with the franchise since 1979's \"Scooby-Doo and Scrappy-Doo\". The film was directed by Jim Stenstrum, who had worked on \"Scooby\" projects beginning in 1983 \"The New Scooby and Scrappy-Doo Show\". As the film was considered a one-off experiment by studio brass, the crew worked with little oversight and complete creative freedom. Doi and writer Glenn Leopold developed the film's story, with Leopold receiving sole credit for the screenplay. Much of the script is recycled from Leopold's script for the unfinished \"SWAT Kats\" episode, \"The Curse of Kataluna\". Jim Stenstrum, the film's director, suggested in early story meetings that the monsters in the film be real—previous \"Scooby\" outings were nearly always \"bad guys\" in rubber masks. Leopold disagreed, noting that throughout the franchise's history, it always remained a simple, solvable mystery. Stenstrum felt this worked for a half-hour television episode, but might grow tiresome over a feature film length. Lance Falk, who worked as model coordinator on the film, suggested they combine both ideas.\n\nCasey Kasem was originally set to reprise his role as Shaggy, but had recently gone vegan and demanded the character follow suit and cut all meat and dairy from his diet. The creative team found this absurd, given that eating anything and everything was a hallmark of the character for decades. In addition, they had already began production on \"Zombie Island\", which features Shaggy indulging in crawfish and more. The team decided to recast Shaggy with voice actor Billy West. They gave Kasem a last-minute reprieve before recording the film, noting that they could pay-or-play West, though Kasem still refused. Radio personality Scott Innes ended up voicing Scooby-Doo, as Don Messick, the character's original voice actor, died in 1997. Mary Kay Bergman was cast as Daphne, while B.J. Ward, who played Velma in a \"Johnny Bravo\" crossover episode, reprised her role for this film.\n\nFrank Welker is the only actor from the original series to reprise his role, as Fred Jones. He had initially worried that the producers would replace him as well, given that the producers believed his voice had gone down an octave. The voice director kept requesting Welker perform the voice at a higher pitch. Welker insisted his voice was the same, as Fred's voice is close to his natural speaking voice. The team went back and viewed early \"Scooby-Doo\" episodes and found that Welker's impression was more or less the same. Bob Miller, of Animation World Network, suggested that the reruns of \"Scooby-Doo\" aired on Cartoon Network perhaps gave them a false idea of the character's voice, as the episodes were typically time-compressed (or sped-up) to allow more room for commercials, thus giving all of the show's soundtrack a higher pitch.\n\nJapanese animation studio Mook Animation were contracted to work on the film; Doi had a relationship with the team at Mook as they had previously collaborated on \"Swat Kats\" and \"Jonny Quest\". Hiroshi Aoyama and Kazumi Fukushima directed the film as well, but are not credited on the picture. The film was animated and is presented in standard full frame format. The team were allowed more time to work on the film, as there was no real set schedule—just delivery to the home video department upon completion. The American crew re-designed the series cast for the film, giving them an update fashion-wise. The team felt Fred and Daphne, with their ascots and his bell-bottoms, felt particularly out-of-date. They briefly changed Shaggy's shirt color to red and gave him sneakers, though they quickly relented, as they viewed his original outfit as more timeless.\n\nThe group were trusted by the studio's management as they had worked together for a long time, and all involved on the film had a real passion for the project. Drew Gentle was the main background designer for the project, with Falk contributing to the film's color key. Occasionally, the crew would hire freelance artists to contribute to ancillary designs. In addition, the group enlisted the assistance of Iwao Takamoto—the original designer of Scooby-Doo, still on salary at Hanna-Barbera—for advising on scenes. Takamoto called the film \"a good solid mystery\", and storyboarded several sequences of interplay between Shaggy and Scooby.\n\nComposer Steven Bramson, who is known for \"Tiny Toon Adventures\", \"JAG\" and the \"Lost in Space\" film, scored and conducted the film. The soundtrack for the film features three songs composed specifically for the film. \"The Ghost Is Here\" and \"It's Terror Time Again\", both written by Glenn Leopold, were performed by Skycycle. The title track, \"Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!\", was performed by Third Eye Blind.\n\nThis and the following three films had a darker tone than the original animated series (\"Scooby-Doo, Where are You!\" and several spinoffs), and the marketing emphasized: \"This time, the monsters are real.\" However, it's worth noting that \"Scooby\" writers had introduced real supernatural elements into the franchise back in 1980 with the second season of \"Scooby-Doo and Scrappy-Doo\", possibly to avoid some of the show's formulaic trappings. In the first segment, \"A Close Encounter with a Strange Kind,\" the series takes its first delve into science fiction when Shaggy is abducted by real aliens. In the second segment, \"A Fit Night Out for Bats,\" Shaggy, Scooby and Scrappy spend the night in a castle with a real vampire and eventually escape from him. No attempt is made at an unmasking, and the characters do not comment on how unusual it is for them to meet a real monster.\n\nSupernatural elements would continue to be incorporated through the remaining \"Scrappy\" series and through TV movies until \"Scooby-Doo and the Reluctant Werewolf\" (1988). However, there are several notable differences between this production and earlier ones to feature real monsters. First, Fred, Daphne and Velma are all present; they had frequently been absent during the earlier adventures. Second, Scrappy is absent from this story, as he has been in all productions since 1988 (except for comical cameos). Third, this was the first storyline to focus on the gang's surprise at the monsters not being fake. So \"Zombie Island\" does at least feature some breaks with tradition.\n\nThe film was released on VHS on September 22, 1998 through Warner Home Video. Because of the cost of production, the tape retailed at $19.95, which was higher than other direct-to-video titles of that era. Sales for the film exceeded the studio's expectations, according to a 1999 \"Billboard\" article. It was released on DVD on March 6, 2001, and later re-released in 2008 as a double-feature on DVD alongside the third direct-to-video \"Scooby\" film, \"Scooby-Doo and the Alien Invaders\" (2000).\n\nThe film was aided by a reportedly $50 million promotional push, as advertisers believed the character's iconic nature would generate strong sales, and deserved \"equal visibility to a theatrical release.\" Tie-ins included the Campbell Soup Company, SpaghettiOs, 1-800-COLLECT, Wendy's, LEGO, and Cartoon Network, who debuted the film on television on October 31, 1998, after a month themed after the series. It was also promoted as part of the network's \"Wacky Racing\" sponsorship deal with Melling Racing in 1998, as the third of four paint schemes featured on the NASCAR Winston Cup Series #9 Ford Taurus driven by then-rookie Jerry Nadeau. The paint scheme debuted at Richmond International Raceway in the Exide NASCAR Select Batteries 400 on September 12, 1998, and was featured on the car through the Dura Lube Kmart 500 at Phoenix International Raceway on October 25, 1998, for a total of seven races out of the thirty-three race schedule. The promotional push was, at the time, the biggest marketing support in Warner Bros. Family Entertainment's history.\n\nThe film received positive reviews from critics, and currently holds a \"Fresh\" rating of 86% on Rotten Tomatoes. Donald Liebenson of the \"Chicago Tribune\" described the film as \"ambitious\" and calls it \"a nostalgic hoot [that] resurrects all the touchstones of the original cartoons.\" \"Entertainment Weekly\" Joe Neumaier praised the film as \"Fast, fun, and filled with knowing winks, the mystery honors the show’s beloved structure, but writ large.\" A 1998 \"New York Times\" article by Peter M. Nichols complimented the film as \"well-made.\" Lynne Heffley at the \"Los Angeles Times\" called the film \"more entertaining than you'd expect, despite the familiar Saturday morning-type animation.\"\n\nLater assessments of the film have been similarly positive. Michael Mallory at the \"Los Angeles Times\" credited it and its subsequent features for \"[spinning] the characters into more modern treatments of action and horror, and toyed with [a] self-spoofing quality.\"\n\nA direct sequel, titled \"Scooby-Doo! Return to Zombie Island,\" had its world premiere at the San Diego Comic-Con on July 21, 2019, followed by a digital release on September 3, 2019 and a DVD release on October 1, 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081795", "title": "Spyro: A Hero's Tail", "text": "Spyro: A Hero's Tail\n\nSpyro: A Hero's Tail is the fifth console game in the original \"Spyro\" series and the ninth game in the series in all. Developed by Eurocom Entertainment Software, it was the first game in the series for the Xbox, as well as the second game in the series for the PlayStation 2 and GameCube.\n\nThe game introduces a new antagonist, Red, a former Dragon Elder banished years before the events of the game, and sees the protagonist, Spyro the Dragon, attempt to defeat him with the aid of his best friend Sparx the dragonfly, Hunter the Cheetah, Sgt. Byrd the flying penguin, and Blink the mole, who are all playable.\n\nThe gameplay in \"A Hero's Tail\" is largely the same as in previous \"Spyro\" games, but with various tweaks to Spyro's abilities and the game's controller mapping, and less of an emphasis on gems; they now act strictly as the game's currency, and are no longer important to completing the game with 20%. There is also a considerable amount of backtracking in the game, with important items only reachable with certain abilities acquired later in the game; some items also require a certain number of light gems to be acquired.\nSpyro begins \"A Hero's Tail\" with most of his standard abilities including gliding and fire-breath. Spyro's gliding mechanics have been tweaked from previous titles, with the addition of a double-jump and ability to hover downwards by releasing the analog stick. Similar to previous titles, Spyro also acquires multiple breath types to use throughout the game, including electricity, water, and ice; each element has different characteristics and uses throughout the game—for example, electricity can defeat metal-armored enemies, and water is used primarily to solve puzzles. In addition to these elements, Spyro also acquires a projectile-like \"secondary breath\" attack with each element, which can defeat most enemies, but the player can only store a limited quantity of secondary-breath attacks. Spyro also gains the ability to jump off of walls and swing from poles, similar to other platforming game series such as \"Prince of Persia\" and \"Jak and Daxter\", allowing him to traverse obstacles and reach new segments in a level. Also, Sparx, Spyro's dragonfly companion, returns as a personification of Spyro's current health level, and assists in collecting nearby items for the player.\n\nAs well as Spyro, four other characters are playable. Sparx, other than helping Spyro, is also playable in his own rail shooter-style minigames. Blink, an anthropomorphic mole, explores levels set in underground mines and caverns, where the player is tasked to locate and destroy various dark shards with explosives. Sgt Byrd, first introduced in \"\" plays host to several flying-themed minigames in which the player is given a set amount of time to locate and fly through (or destroy) various targets and enemies in a level. Hunter, first introduced in \"\", has two standalone portions of the game to himself. He's able to scale certain walls and attack and snipe enemies using his bow and arrows.\n\nAs well as the returning playable characters, numerous other characters return as well. The Professor appears for his first console appearance since \"\". Moneybags also returns, but is no longer the upperclass salesman of past games, and is now a merchant with an Eastern European accent. Gnasty Gnorc also makes his first appearance in a Spyro game since the original. The game also introduces Ineptune, an evil sea queen, who alongside Gnasty is working with the game's main antagonist Red - a fallen Dragon Elder who is using Dark Gems in a plot for revenge. Sgt. James Byrd also returns from \"Year of the Dragon\". A new character, Blink the Mole, makes his first appearance in the game and the \"Spyro\" series. He is known as the Professor's nephew. Also appearing are the Dragon Elders, a group of older dragons who govern the Dragon Realms and teach Spyro new abilities such as the Horn Dive, Pole Spin, Wing Shield and Wall Kick abilities. The four Dragon Elders are Tomas, Magnus, Titan and Astor (named after 4 dragons that were in the first game). Red was also a former Dragon Elder before his exile.\n\nA banished dragon elder named Red ambushes the Dragon Realms with life-draining stones called Dark Gems, having recruited Gnasty Gnorc from first game and an evil mermaid-like creature called Ineptune. Spyro is tasked with destroying the Dark Gems and stopping Red's schemes, collecting dragon eggs and light gems along the way. With the help of his friends (including Sparx the dragonfly, Hunter the cheetah, Sgt. Byrd the penguin, and new character Blink the mole), Spyro ventures through the first two worlds and defeats Gnasty Gnorc and Ineptune.\n\nIn the Icy Wilderness realm, Spyro is attacked and captured by a mammoth working for Red. Hunter and Sparx work together to free him, and Spyro defeats Red in their first battle. Red escapes to the Volcanic Isle, as Spyro and the Professor follow him. After entering Red's laboratory underneath the volcano, Spyro discovers that the Professor has been captured and forced to turn Red's Gnorc army into robots to make them stronger. After Spyro accidentally turns Red into a robot and the Professor accidentally increases his size, Spyro battles Red and defeats him. The Professor then shrinks Red down to a smaller size, implying that he'll use Red for his experiments.\n\nAchieving 100% completion unlocks a hidden alternate ending in which the dragon elders (Titan, Tomas, Astor, and Magnus) are sitting around the television looking at the game's credits. Some bickering ensues among the elders (during which the fourth wall is broken), leading to Titan shutting off the TV at Tomas's suggestion.\n\nBesides Michael Gough reprising his role as Gnasty Gnorc and André Sogliuzzo reprising his role as Sparx, none of the other original cast from the previous Spyro games returned to voice any of their characters (e.g. Tom Kenny is replaced by Jess Harnell as Spyro).\n\n\"A Hero's Tail\" received \"mixed or average\" reviews, according to review aggregator Metacritic.\n\nGameSpot's review was mixed. Giving it a 5.8 out of 10, they said, \"Although Spyro's production values have shot up, its gameplay has remained more or less the same since the series' 1998 debut. Back then, players lacking Nintendo 64s didn't have too many good 3D platformers to choose from, so Spyro's gameplay foibles were acceptable, in light of its uniqueness. The novelty has worn off. Today, modest improvements on this tired formula, like giving Spryo's once-vestigial, T-rex-like arms the ability to grip ledges, just aren't enough to make the game feel innovative. Filling the title with disruptive and boring minigames to artificially increase play time apparently wasn't a good move, either. Despite all the new window dressing, \"Spyro: A Hero's Tail\" is the same game you played six years ago, and you probably remember it being better.\"\n\nIGN gave the game a 7 out of 10, saying in a positive review, \"\"Spyro: A Hero's Tail\" delivers a decent amount of fun. While lacking innovation in style and play mechanics, the game controls well and offers enough challenge and length to warrant a hard look by parents looking to buy a game for their kids. Also, the inclusion of new characters, new attacks and a ton of collectibles will keep collector-nuts playing for at least 15 hours. In the end, \"A Hero’s Tail\" is a definite improvement over \"\". It’s a solid, albeit simple and slightly unimaginative platformer.\"\n"}
{"id": "2081808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081808", "title": "List of Odonata species of Great Britain", "text": "List of Odonata species of Great Britain\n\nThere are 57 recorded species of Odonata in Britain, made up of 21 damselflies (suborder Zygoptera) and 36 dragonflies (suborder Anisoptera). Of these, 42 species (17 damselflies and 25 dragonflies) are resident breeders, and the remainder are either extinct species, or vagrants - in respect of the latter, this list follows the decisions of the Odonata Records Committee. \n\nSome of these rare species have not been seen since the 19th Century; however, the British Odonata list is also currently undergoing a period of unprecedented change, as new species are being discovered for the first time, some going on to become breeding species.\n\nThis list is based on the following principal references:\n\nA number of other references were used to provide information on specific topics, including rare vagrants, post-1990 additions, predictions, species claimed but not accepted / species of uncertain provenance, non-natives, taxonomic matters and species found only in the Channel Islands.\n\nIreland's Odonata fauna is quite different from that of Britain, with many fewer breeding species, but one additional species not found in Britain, Irish Damselfly \"Coenagrion lunulatum\" – see List of Odonata species of Ireland for more information.\nAfter a period in which the British Odonata list has been relatively static, since 1990, many new species have been found and some have gone on to become regular breeding species. In chronological order of their first record, these new species are:\n\nMany British Odonata enthusiasts expect further species to be added to the list in the near future. The list below is up to date breeding season.\n\nWhile most species on the list below are either extant established breeding species or rare vagrants, some do not fall into these two categories. The following species bred in the past but are now extinct:\nThe following species are sporadic or casual breeders:\n\nRecords of non-native Odonata species in Britain have been confined to individuals found within heated greenhouses associated with nurseries for aquatic plants. None of these species have been recorded in wild situations or gone on to establish populations in the wild. Details of species which have occurred in such circumstances can be found in Agassiz 1981, Brooks 1988 and Parr 2000a.\n\nThe list is in taxonomic order. The English name of each species is given, followed by its scientific name, details of the range countries for each breeding species, and an overall status code for species which are not long-established extant breeding species.\n\nThe following abbreviations are used to give country-by-country distribution information for the breeding species:\n\nThe following codes are used to give status details for those species which are not long-established extant breeding species:\n\n1. The following species have been claimed but not accepted by the Odonata Records Committee:\n\n2. The following species have been recorded, and their \"identification\" accepted, but the circumstances surrounding the records and/or specimens cast doubt on their natural occurrence, and they are not included in the official British list:\n\n3. The following is a list of species which have previously been predicted to occur in Britain but have not yet been recorded (see Merritt, Moore & Eversham 1996 pp. 113–114 and Parr 1998, 1999 ): Subarctic Hawker \"Aeshna subarctica\", Northern White-faced Darter \"Leucorrhina rubicunda\" and Small Emerald Damselfly \"Lestes virens\".\n\n4. In addition to the species listed above, Southern Skimmer \"Orthetrum brunneum\" and Southern Darter \"Sympetrum meridionale\" have been recorded in the Channel Islands (Parr 2000a).\n\n"}
{"id": "2081811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081811", "title": "List of Odonata species of Ireland", "text": "List of Odonata species of Ireland\n\nThe following is a list of Odonata species recorded in Ireland. Common names are those given in the standard literature; where a different name has been given in \"The Natural History of Ireland's Dragonflies\", this is given in brackets.\n\nThe following species have been included in previous lists of Irish dragonflies, but are no longer regarded as having been reliably recorded:\n\n"}
{"id": "2081816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081816", "title": "Hardware overlay", "text": "Hardware overlay\n\nIn computing, hardware overlay, a type of video overlay, provides a method of rendering an image to a display screen with a dedicated memory buffer inside computer video hardware. The technique aims to improve the display of a fast-moving video image — such as a computer game, a DVD, or the signal from a TV card. Most video cards manufactured since about 1998 and most media players support hardware overlay.\n\nThe overlay is a dedicated buffer into which one app can render (typically video), without incurring the significant performance cost of checking for clipping and overlapping rendering by other apps. The framebuffer has hardware support for importing and rendering the buffer contents without going through the GPU.\n\nThe use of a hardware overlay is important for several reasons:\n\n\nA computer draws on its display by writing a bitmapped representation of the graphics into a special portion of its memory known as video memory. Without any hardware overlays, only one chunk of video memory exists which all applications must share - and the location of a given application's video memory moves whenever the user changes the position of the application's window. With shared video memory, an application must constantly check that it is only writing to memory that belongs to that application.\n\nWhen running a high-bandwidth video application such as a movie player or some games, the computing power and complexity needed to perform constant clipping and checking negatively impacts performance and compatibility. A hardware overlay escapes these limitations. In addition, the graphics processing unit (GPU) provides an efficient way to scale the video in size and often performs color-format conversions (such as MPEG-2's YCbCr into RGB).\n\nAn application using a hardware overlay gets a completely separate section of video memory that belongs only to that application. Because nothing else uses it, the program never needs to waste resources in checking whether a given piece of the memory belongs to it, nor does it need to monitor whether the user moves the window and changes the location of the video memory. To get the image from the separate video memory to display in tandem with the remaining shared elements on the display, the graphical subsystem associates a certain attribute (for example, a particular color) as a \"mask\" for that overlay, which the graphics card understands to mean that it is to draw from the separate overlay buffer onto the screen. (This technique has become known as \"chroma key\".)\n\nAs an example, assume that the graphical subsystem defines the color \"purple\" as the mask color that triggers the overlay to appear. An application that plays a DVD will draw a solid purple rectangle on the shared screen, and then \"play\" the DVD into the special region of memory dedicated to the overlay. The graphics card will render the DVD playback only inside the purple area. If another window moves over top of the purple area and obscures a part of it, then the graphics hardware performs the clipping by itself. In practice, the actual color \"purple\" is not used - rather, either a nondescript near-black color is used (as the system often has thousands of such shades to choose from), or the mask region is denoted using some similar masking method not involving colors.\n\nAs a consequence of hardware overlay use, a screenshot program (for example, the one automatically built into Windows that activates when a user presses the PrtSc key) often does not capture the content appearing in the hardware overlay window. Rather, a blank region containing only the special mask color is captured. This is because the screen capture routine doesn't consider the special video memory regions dedicated to overlays – it simply captures the shared main screen as rendered by the software's graphical subsystem.\n\nMany graphics cards can support more than one monitor and/or a TV screen as output devices. Typically one of these output devices has to be declared the \"primary\" device, and only the primary device can display hardware overlays. There are exceptions: Intel writes in the FAQ for their Embedded Graphics Drivers that the overlay can be attached to either one of the displays but not to both (note: the Intel 945, G33-Q965 chipsets have dual hardware overlay, and are capable of good quality mpeg2 on secondary monitors when appropriate software is installed), and some newer Matrox graphics card support overlay on both displays (for example, the Parhelia Series).\n\nSecondary displays require both hardware and driver support; some graphics cards may support overlay on the second display while their drivers may not yet support it (note: graphics chipset driver bugs can cause most video formats apart from mpeg2 to work on both monitors, and mpeg2 only on the primary with most players).\n\nSome users note that DVD movies display properly on a laptop screen but don't display on a TV connected to the laptop; in these cases it may be possible to designate the TV as the primary display. Sometimes, the use of hardware overlays may have to be disabled in the media player. However, some graphics cards have the option to completely redirect hardware overlay to the TV screen. In this case, starting a DVD player on the main screen with overlay enabled would result in video being displayed on the attached TV screen.\n\nWindows Vista's enhanced graphics capabilities replace the basic concept of hardware overlays with full hardware compositing for every application window running on the system, not just movie players or games, through the Desktop Window Manager. Mac OS X has used hardware compositing since the introduction of Quartz Extreme into Mac OS X 10.2. To improve performance, each program draws to its own independent memory buffer instead of to a slow graphical subsystem. (In Windows Vista, each hardware overlay is more correctly known as a Direct3D surface). Then the system's GPU assembles each of the windows into a single display screen in real time. With modern GPUs capable of advanced 3D graphics (as a consequence of the video game industry), operating systems can apply computationally intensive motion, scaling, and lighting effects to normal 2D windows.\n\nDue to a need to reduce power consumption, Windows 7 added back limited support for overlays, and Windows 8.1 added support for multi-plane overlays. Multi-plane overlays allow the Desktop Window Manager to automatically render portions of the desktop into overlays, saving power in more circumstances.\n\nIn the X Window System, the windowing system of most Unix operating systems, the XVideo extension can allow applications to employ hardware overlays. Compositing is also used, with compiz and Beryl compositing window managers being the most prominent examples since 2006. They are able to take advantage of OpenGL (through glx extension) for 3D and 2D overlay visual effects. Other implementations like Metacity and xfwm have been available since 2004.\n\nSome dedicated hardware overlay devices use embedded Linux as an operating system, for example the video logger by Racelogic uses a Texas Instruments DM355 micro-controller to blend a frame buffer containing graphics onto a live video feed, and then store the result in MPEG-4 format on a flash card.\n\nOverlay support aka Picture In Picture (PIP) was introduced to AmigaOS with the introduction of the PC graphic cards, Picasso96 and CyberGraphX graphic driver systems aka ReTargetable Graphics, for Picasso IV and Voodoo3 cards, picasso’96 driver system became standard in AmigaOS 3.5. Moovid was one of the first video players that supported hardware overlay (PIP) on AmigaOS.\n"}
{"id": "2081846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081846", "title": "Ottoman Caliphate", "text": "Ottoman Caliphate\n\nThe Ottoman Caliphate, under the Ottoman dynasty of the Ottoman Empire, was the last Sunni Islamic caliphate of the late medieval and the early modern era. During the period of Ottoman growth, Ottoman rulers claimed caliphal authority since 1517 since Selim I, through conquering and unification of Muslim lands, became the defender of the Holy Cities of Mecca and Medina which further strengthened the Ottoman claim to caliphate in the Muslim world since 1517.\n\nThe demise of the Ottoman Caliphate took place because of a slow erosion of power in relation to Western Europe, and because of the end of the Ottoman state in consequence of the partitioning of the Ottoman Empire by the League of Nations mandate. Abdülmecid II, the last Ottoman caliph, held his caliphal position for a couple of years after the partitioning, but with Mustafa Kemal's secular reforms and the subsequent exile of the royal Osmanoğlu family from the Republic of Turkey in 1924, the caliphal position was abolished.\n\nWith the establishments of Bektashi and Mevlevi orders, heterodox, syncretic and mystic approaches to Islam like Sufism were flourished.\n\nSince Murad I's conquest of Edirne in 1362, the caliphate was claimed by the Turkish sultans of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nIn 1517, the Ottoman Sultan Selim I defeated the Mamluk Sultanate in Cairo, and Al-Mutawakkil III, the last Abbasid caliph, was brought back to Constantinople as prisoner. There, it is said, Al-Mutawakkil formally surrendered the title of caliph as well as its outward emblems—the sword and mantle of Muhammad—to Selim, establishing the Ottoman sultans as the new caliphal line. And they gradually came to be viewed as the de facto leaders and representative of the Islamic world. From Constantinople, the Ottoman sultans ruled over an empire that, at its peak, covered Anatolia, most of the Middle East, North Africa, the Caucasus, and extended deep into Eastern Europe.\n\nStrengthened by the Peace of Westphalia and the Industrial Revolution, European powers regrouped and challenged Ottoman dominance. Owing largely to poor leadership, archaic political norms, and an inability to keep pace with technological progress in Europe, the Ottoman Empire could not respond effectively to Europe's resurgence and gradually lost its position as a pre-eminent great power.\n\nIn the nineteenth century the Ottoman Empire initiated a period of modernization known as the Tanzimat, which transformed the nature of the Ottoman state, greatly increasing its power despite the empire's territorial losses. Despite the success of its self-strengthening reforms, the empire was largely unable to match the military strength of its main rival, the Russian Empire, and suffered several defeats in the Russo-Turkish Wars. The Ottoman state defaulted on its loans in 1875–76, part of a wider financial crisis affecting much of the globe.\n\nThe British supported and propagated the view that the Ottomans were Caliphs of Islam among Muslims in British India and the Ottoman Sultans helped the British by issuing pronouncements to the Muslims of India telling them to support British rule from Sultan Selim III and Sultan Abdülmecid I.\n\nSultan Abdul-Hamid II, who ruled 1876–1909, felt that the Empire's desperate situation could only be remedied through strong and determined leadership. He distrusted his ministers and other officials that had served his predecessors and gradually reduced their role in his regime, concentrating absolute power over the Empire's governance in his own hands. Taking a hard-line against Western involvement in Ottoman affairs, he emphasized the Empire's \"Islamic\" character, reasserted his status as the Caliph, and called for Muslim unity behind the Caliphate. Abdul-Hamid strengthened the Empire's position somewhat, and succeeded briefly in reasserting Islamic power, by building numerous schools, reducing the national debt, and embarking on projects aimed at revitalizing the Empire's decaying infrastructure.\n\nThe coup by the three Pashas in 1909 marked the end of his reign. Western-inclined Turkish military officers opposed to Abdul-Hamid's rule had steadily organized in the form of secret societies within and outside Turkey. By 1906, the movement enjoyed the support of a significant portion of the army, and its leaders formed the Committee of Union and Progress (CUP), informally known as the Young Turk Party. The Young Turks sought to remodel administration of the Empire along Western lines. Their ideology was nationalist in character, and was a precursor of the movement that would seize control of Turkey following World War I. CUP leaders presented their ideas to the public as a revival of true Islamic principles. Under the leadership of Enver Pasha, a Turkish military officer, the CUP launched a military coup against the Sultan in 1908, proclaiming a new regime on 6 July. Though they left Abdul-Hamid on his throne, the Young Turks compelled him to restore the parliament and constitution he had suspended thirty years earlier, thereby creating a constitutional monarchy and stripping the Caliphate of its authority.\n\nA counter-coup launched by soldiers loyal to the Sultan threatened the new government but ultimately failed. After nine months into the new parliamentary term, discontent and reaction found expression in a fundamentalist movement, the counter-revolutionary 31 March Incident, which actually occurred on 13 April 1909. Many aspects of this revolt, which started within certain sections of the mutinying army in Constantinople, are still yet to be analyzed. Its generally admitted perception of a \"reactionary\" movement has sometimes been challenged, given the results and effects on the young political system.\n\nAbdul-Hamid was deposed on 13 April 1909. He was replaced by his brother Rashid Effendi, who was proclaimed Sultan Mehmed V on 27 April.\n\nIn 1911 Italy warred with the Ottomans over Libya, and Turkey's failure to defend these regions demonstrated the weakness of the Ottoman military. In 1912 Bulgaria, Serbia, Montenegro, and Greece formed the Balkan League, an anti-Ottoman alliance that subsequently launched a joint attack on the Ottoman Empire. The ensuing Balkan Wars eliminated what little presence the Ottomans had left in Europe, and only infighting between the Balkan League allies prevented them from advancing into Anatolia.\n\nInternally, the Ottomans continued to be troubled by political instability. Nationalist uprisings that had plagued the Empire sporadically for the past fifty years intensified. The masses were growing frustrated with chronic misgovernance and the Ottomans' poor showing in military conflicts. In response, the CUP led a second \"coup d'état\" in 1913 and seized absolute control of the government. For the next five years, the Empire was a one-party state ruled by the CUP under the leadership of Enver Pasha (who returned to Constantinople after having served Turkey abroad in various military and diplomatic capacities since the initial coup), Minister of the Interior Talat Pasha, and Minister of the Navy Cemal Pasha. Though the Sultan was retained, he made no effort to exercise power independent of the Young Turks and was effectively their puppet. The Caliphate was thus held nominally by Mehmed V, but the authority attached to the office rested with the Young Turks.\n\nAs World War I broke out in Europe, the Young Turks struck an alliance with Germany, a move that would have disastrous consequences. The Empire entered the war on the side of the Central Powers in November 1914, and Britain, France, and Russia immediately declared war on Ottoman Empire. During the development of the war, the empire's position continued to deteriorate, and even in the Middle East – the very heartland of the Islamic world – would soon be lost.\n\nThough the Young Turks had compelled the Sultan in his capacity as the Caliph to declare a jihad urging all Muslims to resist Allied encroachment on their lands, the effort was largely unsuccessful. The Young Turk government resigned en masse and Enver, Talat, and Cemal fled Turkey aboard a German warship. Sultan Mehmed VI, who was proclaimed Sultan after his brother Mehmed V died of a heart attack in July, agreed to an armistice. The Armistice of Mudros formalizing Ottoman surrender was signed aboard a British warship on October 30, 1918. Allied troops arrived in Constantinople and occupied the Sultan's palace shortly thereafter.\n\nBy the end of the war, the Ottomans had lost virtually their entire Empire. Hoping to keep his throne and preserve the Ottoman dynasty in some form or another, the Sultan agreed to cooperate with the Allies. He dissolved parliament and allowed an Allied military administration to replace the government vacated by the Young Turks.\n\nThe Khilafat movement (1919–1924) was a political campaign launched mainly by Muslims in British controlled India to influence the British government to protect the Caliphate during the aftermath of World War I.\n\nThe defeat of the Ottomans and the Allied occupation of Constantinople left the Ottoman state and the Caliphate with no solid basis. The Khilafat movement sought to remedy this. The movement gained force after the Treaty of Sèvres in August 1920, which codified the partitioning of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nThe Turkish national movement, as the details explained in Turkish War of Independence, formed a Turkish Grand National Assembly, and secured formal recognition of the nation's independence and new borders on 20 Feb, 1923 through the Treaty of Lausanne. The National Assembly declared Turkey a republic on October 29, 1923, and proclaimed Ankara its new capital. After over 600 years, the Ottoman Empire had officially ceased to exist. However, under Allied direction, the Sultan pledged to suppress such movements and secured an official fatwa from the Sheikh ul-Islam declaring them to be un-Islamic. But the nationalists steadily gained momentum and began to enjoy widespread support. Many sensed that the nation was ripe for revolution. In an effort to neutralize this threat, the Sultan agreed to hold elections, with the hope of placating and co-opting the nationalists. To his dismay, nationalist groups swept the polls, prompting him to again dissolve parliament in April 1920.\n\nInitially, the National Assembly seemed willing to allow a place for the Caliphate in the new regime, agreeing to the appointment of Mehmed's cousin Abdülmecid as caliph upon Mehmed's departure (November 1922). But the position had been stripped of any authority, and Abdülmecid's purely ceremonial reign would be short lived. Mustafa Kemal had been a vocal critic of the Ottoman House and its Islamic orientation. When Abdülmecid was declared caliph, Kemal refused to allow the traditional Ottoman ceremony to take place, bluntly declaring: \n\nIn response to Abdülmecid's petition for an increase in his allowance, Kemal wrote: \n\nStill, for all the power he had already wielded in Turkey, Kemal did not dare to abolish the Caliphate outright, as it still commanded a considerable degree of support from the common people.\n\nThen an event happened which was to deal a fatal blow to the Caliphate. Two Indian brothers, Maulana Mohammad Ali and Maulana Shaukat Ali, leaders of the Indian-based Khilafat Movement, distributed pamphlets calling upon the Turkish people to preserve the Ottoman Caliphate for the sake of Islam. Under Turkey's new nationalist government, however, this was construed as foreign intervention, and any form of foreign intervention was labelled an insult to Turkish sovereignty, and worse, a threat to State security. Kemal promptly seized his chance. On his initiative, the National Assembly abolished the Caliphate on March 3, 1924. Abdülmecid was sent into exile along with the remaining members of the Ottoman House.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081849", "title": "Eamonn McGirr", "text": "Eamonn McGirr\n\nEamonn Joseph McGirr (7 November 1940 – 14 June 2004) was a Northern Ireland-born entertainer in New York's Capital District area. \n\nHe was born on 7 November 1940, in Derry, Northern Ireland to Deward McGirr and Gretta Kerr. He later emigrated to the United States.\n\nHe first came to prominence in 1966 with a group of fellow Belfast school teachers: Gerry Burns, Finbar Carolan, and John Sullivan, known collectively as The Go Lucky Four, soared to the top of the Irish music charts with \"Up Went Nelson\", maintaining the #1 spot for eight consecutive weeks.\n\nFrom 1967, McGirr taught maths at Farnworth Grammar School in Greater Manchester, England. He continued to sing rebel songs at school concerts and organised school outings to local venues where his group, The Go Lucky Four, performed gigs.\n\nIn the U.S., McGirr was known for his relentless fundraising for local charities such as the Center For The Disabled' in Albany.\n\nIn all, McGirr helped raise over $1,000,000 for the Center For The Disabled and families of victims of the September 11, 2001 attacks at the World Trade Center in New York City. He even recorded a song called \"The Bravest\" (written by Tom Paxton) in tribute to all of the NYC firefighters who lost their lives during the collapse of the WTC buildings.\n\nMost notably, McGirr set a Guinness World Record for endurance singing in 1996 in an effort to raise awareness and money for cerebral palsy, a condition his daughter Mareena was diagnosed with.\nMcGirr owned a pub, \"Eamonn's\", just outside Albany, New York, which was a favorite spot for local Irish-Americans, especially for its weekly open Irish music sessions. It was severely damaged in a fire on 20 June 2005.\n\nMcGirr was paralyzed after a serious fall in his pub in November 1996. He died on 14 June 2004 in Albany, New York. He was survived by his daughter Mareena and his wife Mary.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081861", "title": "Principality of Galilee", "text": "Principality of Galilee\n\nThe Principality of Galilee was one of the four major seigneuries of the crusader Kingdom of Jerusalem, according to 13th-century commentator John of Ibelin. The direct holdings of the principality centred around Tiberias, in Galilee proper, but with all its vassals, the lordship covered all Galilee (now Israel) and southern Phoenicia (today Lebanon). The independent Lordship of Sidon was located between Galilee's holdings. The principality also had its own vassals: the Lordships of Beirut, Nazareth, and Haifa.\n\nThe principality was established, at least in name, in 1099 when Tancred was given Tiberias, Haifa, and Bethsan by Godfrey of Bouillon. In 1101, Baldwin I limited Tancred's power by giving Haifa to Geldemar Carpenel, and Tancred was forced to give up the principality and become regent in Antioch. The principality became the fief of the families of St. Omer, Montfaucon (Falcomberques), and then Bures, and its main seat was in Tiberias; thus it was sometimes also called the Principality of Tiberias or the Tiberiad. The principality was destroyed by Saladin in 1187, although the title was used by relatives and younger sons of the kings of Cyprus (the titular kings of Jerusalem) afterwards, and some of its former holdings were briefly reclaimed by a treaty made during the Barons' Crusade.\n\n\"Italicized names are of titular princes\".\n\nBeirut was captured in 1110 and given to Fulk of Guînes. It was one of the longest-lived seigneuries, surviving until the final collapse of the kingdom in 1291, although only as a tiny strip on the Mediterranean coast surrounding Beirut. It was important for trade with Europe, and had its own sub-vassals.\n\n\"Italicized names are of titular lords.\"\n\n\nBanias was given to the Franks by the Assassins in 1129. Baldwin gave it to Renier Brus, who also ruled the lordship of Assebebe, which was eventually merged with Banias. Renier's daughter married Humphrey II of Toron, who became lord of Banias around 1148. He sold parts of Banias and Chastel Neuf to the Knights Hospitaller in 1157. Banias was merged with Toron until it fell to Nur ad-Din Zangi in 1164, and when it was recovered it became part of the Seigneury of Joscelin III of Edessa (see below).\n\n\nThe castle of Toron was built by Hugh of St. Omer, second prince of Galilee, to help capture Tyre. After Hugh's death it was made an independent seigneury, given to Humphrey I in 1107. The lords of Toron tended to be very influential in the kingdom; Humphrey II was constable of Jerusalem. Humphrey IV was married to Isabella, Amalric I's daughter (Toron passed into the \"royal domain\" during their marriage, and was then captured by Saladin, but its title was returned to Humphrey IV after their divorce). It was also one of the few to have a straight hereditary succession in male line, at least for some generations. The lords of Toron were also connected to the Lordship of Oultrejordain by the marriage of Humphrey III and the maternal inheritance of Humphrey IV. Toron was later merged with the royal domain of Tyre which went to a branch of Antioch, then their heirs from Montfort. Toron was lost in 1266.\n\nToron had two vassals of its own, the Lordship of Castel Neuf and the Lordship of Toron Ahmud. Chastel Neuf was built by Hugh of St. Omer around 1105 but was later given to the Hospitallers, until it fell to Nur ad-Din in 1167. Toron Ahmud remained in the Lordship of Beirut until John of Ibelin sold it to the Teutonic Knights in 1261.\n\nFor a fuller account of the lordship and the feudal family, see Toron.\n\nNazareth was the original site of the Latin Patriarch, established by Tancred. It was created as a seigneury in Galilee in 1115. A Martin of Nazareth, who probably acted as viscount of Nazareth, is documented in 1115 and in 1130/1131.\n\nHaifa was partly an ecclesiastical domain ruled by the Archbishop of Nazareth, and partly created from other lands in the Principality of Galilee.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081868", "title": "Meteoric iron", "text": "Meteoric iron\n\nMeteoric iron, sometimes meteoritic iron, is a native metal and early-universe protoplanetary-disk remnant found in meteorites and made from the elements iron and nickel mainly in the form of the mineral phases kamacite and taenite. Meteoric iron makes up the bulk of iron meteorites but is also found in other meteorites. Apart from minor amounts of telluric iron, meteoric iron is the only naturally occurring native metal of the element iron (in metallic form rather than in an ore) on the Earth's surface.\n\nThe bulk of meteoric iron consists of taenite and kamacite. Taenite is a face centered cubic and kamacite a body centered cubic iron-nickel-alloy.\n\nMeteoric iron can be distinguished from telluric iron by its microstructure and perhaps by its chemical composition also, since meteoritic iron contains more nickel and less carbon.\n\nTrace amounts of gallium and germanium in meteoric iron can be used to distinguish different meteorite types. The meteoric iron in stony iron meteorites is identical to the \"gallium-germanium group\" of the iron meteorites.\n\nMeteoric iron forms a few different structures that can be seen by etching or in thin sections of meteorites. The Widmanstätten pattern forms when meteoric iron cools and kamacite is exsolved from taenite in the form of lamellas. Plessite is a more fine-grained intergrowth of the two minerals in between the lamella of the Widmanstätten pattern. Neumann lines are fine lines running through kamacite crystals that form through impact-related deformation.\n\nBefore the advent of iron smelting, meteoric iron was the only source of iron metal apart from minor amounts of telluric iron. Meteoric iron was already used before the beginning of the Iron Age to make cultural objects, tools and weapons.\n\nMany examples of iron working from the Bronze Age have been confirmed to be meteoritic in origin. \n\n\n\n\nEven after the invention of smelting, meteoric iron was sometimes used where this technology was not available or metal was scarce. A piece of the Cranbourne meteorite was made into a horseshoe around 1854.\n\nToday meteoritic iron is used in niche jewellery and knife production, but most of it is used for research, educational or collecting purposes.\n\nMeteoric iron also has an effect on the Earth's atmosphere. When meteorites descend through the atmosphere outer parts are ablated. Meteoric ablation is the source of many elements in the upper atmosphere. When meteoric iron is ablated it forms a free iron atom, that can react with ozone (O) to form FeO. This FeO may be the source of the orange spectrographic bands in the spectrum of the upper atmosphere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081869", "title": "Kigoma", "text": "Kigoma\n\nKigoma is a town and lake port in north western Tanzania, on the north eastern shores of Lake Tanganyika and close to the border with Burundi and The Democratic Republic of the Congo. It serves as the capital for the surrounding Kigoma Region and has a population of 135,234 (2007 census) and an elevation of 775 m.\n\nThe historic trading town of Ujiji is 6 km south-east of Kigoma.\n\nKigoma is one of the busiest ports on north eastern Lake Tanganyika, since historically it was the only one that had a functioning railway connection (the one at Kalemie in The Democratic Republic of the Congo is not operational at the moment), a direct link to the ocean port at Dar es Salaam. Kigoma Port in the Kigoma Bay has a wharf of two hundred metres and several cranes and is equipped to handle shipping containers. However, the bay is suffering from silting up as a result of soil erosion from surrounding hills, and the water depths at wharfside has diminished from 6 m to 1.8 m. This may threaten the economic growth of the port. In May 2007 the Tanzanian Government announced a plan to create an economic zone at the port to stimulate trade and to ensure stable economic growth of the Port for the government in Power in 2015 and 2020.\n\nThe \"MV Liemba\" sails every week from Kigoma to Mpulungu in Zambia at the southern tip of Lake Tanganyika, stopping at a number of other lakeside towns in Tanzania on the way. The \"MV Mwongozo\" sails from Kigoma to Baraka, Uvira and Bujumbura at the northern tip of the lake, although it is not working currently. There are other ships from Congo and Burundi that sail to Kigoma Port every week.\n\nCurrent road connections to and from Kigoma are improving. However travelers should be advised to take extra precautions when travelling. A gravel road links the town northeast to the national road network, and earth tracks link north to Burundi and southeast to Sumbawanga.\n\nThe Central Line of the Tanzania Railways Corporation runs from Kigoma to the Port of Dar es Salaam on to the Indian Ocean coast via Tabora and Dodoma. It was completed in 1915 when Kigoma was part of German East Africa. In Tabora, there is a connection to Mwanza on Lake Victoria, with ferry connections to other Tanzanian lake shore places, and formerly Uganda. At Tabora you can also travel by train to Mpanda. For a time in early 2010, the line was closed but service has apparently been restored.\n\nThe city is served by Kigoma Airport which has scheduled service to Bujumbura and Dar es Salaam.\n"}
{"id": "2081883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081883", "title": "1950s in games", "text": "1950s in games\n\n"}
{"id": "2081885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081885", "title": "Toluidine", "text": "Toluidine\n\nThere are three isomers of toluidine, which are organic compounds. These isomers are o\"-toluidine, m\"-toluidine, and \"p\"-toluidine, with the prefixed letter abbreviating, respectively, \"ortho\"; \"meta\"; and \"para\". All three are aryl amines whose chemical structures are similar to aniline except that a methyl group is substituted onto the benzene ring. The difference between these three isomers is the position where the methyl group (–CH) is bonded to the ring relative to the amino functional group (–NH); see illustration of the chemical structures below.\n\nThe chemical properties of the toluidines are quite similar to those of aniline, and toluidines have properties in common with other aromatic amines. Due to the amino group bonded to the aromatic ring, the toluidines are weakly basic. The toluidines are poorly soluble in pure water but dissolve well in acidic water due to formation of ammonium salts, as usual for organic amines. \"ortho\"- and \"meta\"-toluidines are viscous liquids, but \"para\"-toluidine is a flaky solid. This difference is related to the fact that the \"p\"-toluidine molecules are more symmetrical. \"p\"-Toluidine can be obtained from reduction of \"p\"-nitrotoluene. \"p\"-Toluidine reacts with formaldehyde to form Tröger's base.\n\nThe \"ortho\" isomer is produced on the largest scale. Its primary application is as a precursor to the pesticides metolachlor and acetochlor. The other toluidine isomers are used in the production of dyes. They are a component of accelerators for cyanoacrylate glues.\n\nIn some patients \"o\"-toluidine is a metabolite of prilocaine, which may cause methemoglobinemia. This is then treated with methylene blue.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081891", "title": "Joan Baez (album)", "text": "Joan Baez (album)\n\nJoan Baez is the debut album by folk singer Joan Baez. The album was recorded in the summer of 1960 and released the same year. The original release featured 13 traditional folk songs. Later reissues included three additional songs.\n\nIn 2015, the album was selected for induction into National Recording Registry of the Library of Congress for special recognition and preservation as one of the sound recordings in over 130 years of recording history that has \"cultural, artistic and/or historical significance to American society and the nation's audio legacy\".\n\nBaez came to prominence during the Folk Music Revival in the late 1950s, particularly in the first Newport Folk Festival in July 1959. A number of companies tried to sign her after her performance at the music festival, including Columbia, but she chose to go instead with the small independent label, Vanguard. Baez recorded the album for the label in the summer of 1960, when she was nineteen.\n\nMost of the songs featured only Baez' vocals and guitar, with a second guitar (played by Fred Hellerman, of The Weavers), added to some songs. The album went gold, although it did not make the \"Billboard\" 200 chart until 1962, following the success of her second album, \"Joan Baez, Vol. 2\". \"Joan Baez\" peaked at number 15 and spent 140 weeks on the chart.\n\nIn 1983 Baez described the making of the album to \"Rolling Stone\"'s Kurt Loder:\n\nIn 2001, Vanguard reissued \"Joan Baez\" with new liner notes and three previously unreleased songs. (Between 2001 and 2005, they reissued remastered versions of Baez' thirteen original albums with the label.)\n\nIn 2014, Waxtime Records reissued \"Joan Baez\" with new liner notes and only two bonus tracks from earlier Baez sessions that were originally released in 1959 on the compilation LP Folksingers' Round Harvard Square. These two bonus tracks appear as track 8 side 1 : O What a Beautiful City and Track 7, side 2; Black is the Color of my True Love's Hair.\n\nIn his Allmusic review, music critic Bruce Eder gave the album five out of five stars, commenting that the purity of the sound was notable at the time. He wrote of the album \"Baez gives a fine account of the most reserved and least confrontational aspects of the folk revival, presenting a brace of traditional songs (most notably \"East Virginia\" and \"Mary Hamilton\") with an urgency and sincerity that makes the listener feel as though they were being sung for the first time\".\n\nThe album was included in Robert Dimery's 1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die.\n\nIn 2015, the album was deemed \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\" by the Library of Congress and selected for inclusion in the National Recording Registry.\n"}
{"id": "2081892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081892", "title": "Office of Global Programs", "text": "Office of Global Programs\n\nThe Office of Global Programs (OGP) is a division of the United States' National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) run under the auspices of the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR).\n\nThe purpose of the OGP is to oversee the NOAA Climate and Global Change (C&GC) Program. The OGP assists NOAA in its task of providing climate forecasts by sponsoring focused scientific research, within approximately eleven research elements, aimed at understanding climate variability and its predictability.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081902", "title": "Augie Garrido", "text": "Augie Garrido\n\nAugust Edmun \"Augie\" Garrido Jr. (February 6, 1939 – March 15, 2018) was an American professional baseball player and coach in NCAA Division I college baseball, best known for his stints with the Cal State Fullerton Titans and Texas Longhorns. Garrido compiled a collegiate record of 1,975–951–9, retiring in 2016 as the coach with the most wins in college baseball history. His win total was surpassed by Mike Martin of the Florida State Seminoles in 2018. He took his programs to 15 College World Series, winning five of them: three with Cal State Fullerton and two with Texas.\n\nGarrido was born in Vallejo, California in 1939 and graduated from Vallejo High School in 1957. From 1959 to 1961, Garrido played college baseball for Fresno State. Garrido played minor league baseball in the Cleveland Indians organization from 1961 to 1965, beginning with the Class B Burlington Indians from 1961 to 1962, followed by the double-A Charleston Indians in 1963 and triple-A Portland Beavers from 1964 to 1965.\n\nAfter playing for the semi-pro Eureka-Humboldt Crabs in 1966, with Mark Marquess among his teammates, Garrido began graduate studies at California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo (Cal Poly) and graduated in 1968 with a master's degree in education. During his graduate studies, Garrido coached baseball at Sierra High School in Tollhouse, California in 1967 and 1968.\n\nIn 1969, Garrido began his coaching career as head coach at San Francisco State, where he led the Gators to a 25–14 record.\n\nReturning to Cal Poly, Garrido was head coach for the Cal Poly Mustangs from 1970 to 1972, during which he went 86–62–1. He turned around the Mustangs from a 16–33 record in 1970 to 39–11–1 in 1971.\n\nFrom 1973 to 1987 and again from 1991 to 1996, Garrido was head coach at Cal State Fullerton. In 21 seasons with Cal State Fullerton, Garrido accumulated a 929–391–6 record with seven College World Series including three championships (1979, 1984, and 1995) and a runner-up finish in 1992. \"The Sporting News\" named Garrido the College Baseball Coach of the Year in 1975 and 1979.\n\nIn between his two stints at Cal State Fullerton, Garrido was head coach at Illinois from 1988 to 1990. Illinois athletic director Neale Stoner signed Garrido to a salary nearly double that of other non-revenue sports' coaches at Illinois.\n\nIn 1989, Illinois got its first Big Ten Tournament title and NCAA Tournament appearance since 1963 and repeated both achievements in 1990. Illinois went 111–57 under Garrido.\n\nGarrido led Texas to the College World Series four straight years from 2002 to 2005 and won the tournament in 2002 and 2005. In 2006, despite being ranked No. 3 in the nation at the end of the regular season, Texas was defeated at home in an NCAA regional by Stanford.\n\nOn April 29, 2011, Garrido became the first NCAA Division I coach to reach 1,800 victories as the seventh-ranked Longhorns defeated No. 14 Oklahoma 5–0 in front of 7,339 fans at UFCU Disch–Falk Field.\n\nIn 2016, Texas had its first losing season since 1998, and the team did not qualify for postseason play for the third time in five years. On May 30, 2016, the University of Texas announced that Garrido had resigned and accepted a position as a special assistant to the athletic director, Mike Perrin. His record at Texas was 824–427–2.\n\nGarrido's teams won five national titles (1979, 1984, 1995, 2002, 2005). He is one of only two coaches, along with Andy Lopez, to lead teams from more than one school (Cal State Fullerton and Texas) to national titles, and is among the most successful college baseball coaches in history. He is the first coach to guide teams to national championships in four different decades.\n\nAdditionally, Garrido earned 15 trips to the College World Series, including eight at Texas, while garnering National Coach of the Year honors five times (1975, 1979, 1984, 1985, 2002), regional coach of the year accolades following six different seasons (1975, 1979, 1984, 1985, 2002, 2004) and conference coach of the year distinctions on three occasions (1987, 1995, 2002). Garrido's teams won league championships in 20 different seasons.\n\nHis final coaching record was 1,975–951–9. He earned more wins than any other coach in NCAA baseball history, across all levels, prior to being surpassed by Florida State University's Mike Martin in 2018.\n\nGarrido was a friend of actor Kevin Costner from Garrido's days at CSUF (where Costner attended and was cut from the baseball team by Garrido). Costner, who maintains a home in Austin, was occasionally seen at Garrido's practices and games. Garrido played the New York Yankees manager in Costner's movie \"For Love of the Game.\"\n\nGarrido was a friend of director Richard Linklater, a Longhorn fan. Linklater was often seen taking batting practice with the team while in Austin. In 2008, ESPN2 aired a 2-hour documentary directed by Linklater, titled \"Inning By Inning: Portrait of A Coach\", which focused on the life of Garrido, from his childhood to his current job at The University of Texas.\n\nAmerican storyteller and adventurer Woodrow Landfair was a player of Garrido's at the University of Texas from 2003 to 2005, serving as the team's bullpen catcher and winning back-to-back Teammate of the Year awards in 2004 and 2005. In a 2007 article in the Austin American-Statesman, Landfair was quoted praising Garrido as both a baseball and a life coach. Landfair claims that Garrido inspired him to pursue a writing career when, after Landfair accepted the team's 2005 National Championship trophy, Garrido told him, \"Let this be only your first great accomplishment.\"Austin American-Statesman.\n\nOn January 17, 2009, Garrido was arrested by Austin police for driving while intoxicated. Police reported that Garrido was driving a Porsche Cayenne west on 6th Street at about 1:00 a.m., when a DWI enforcement officer pulled the coach over since he did not have his headlights on. After taking a sobriety test, Garrido admitted to the officer that he consumed five glasses of wine and was intoxicated. The school suspended him with pay from the first four games of the Longhorns' 2009 season. Garrido publicly apologized, calling his misdemeanor a \"serious mistake\". He pleaded guilty to the charge on February 2, 2009, and was sentenced on April 30, 2009.\n\nGarrido was a friend of former President George W. Bush from the time Bush was a part owner of the Texas Rangers baseball team.\n\nGarrido’s curse-laden post game rants became the subject of several YouTube videos.\n\nOn March 12, 2018, Garrido suffered a stroke. Three days later, he died at the age of 79 in California.\n\nThe following is a table of Garrido's win-loss records as an NCAA head baseball coach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081908", "title": "The Nightmare Before Christmas: The Pumpkin King", "text": "The Nightmare Before Christmas: The Pumpkin King\n\n, is a platform game release in 2005 for the Game Boy Advance, based on the 1993 stop motion animated film \"The Nightmare Before Christmas\". The game is a prequel to the film and tells of Jack's first encounter with Oogie Boogie, and how he claimed the title of \"The Pumpkin King\".\n\n\"The Pumpkin King\" was released at the same time in North America as \"\" for PlayStation 2 and Xbox.\n\nOne year before the events of the film, Jack Skellington is preparing for Halloween. When Oogie Boogie hears from his henchmen Lock, Shock and Barrel that Jack is scarier than him, he sends them to kidnap Jack. They, however, bring Sally, a rag doll-like creature who is Doctor Finkelstein's new assistant and has a crush on Jack.\n\nOn Halloween, Jack finds the town deserted and hears from the Mayor that everyone is hiding from a bug infestation. Lock, Shock and Barrel wreak havoc around the town. Along the way, Jack helps the townspeople and in return collects weapons, upgrades, and information. Jack learns of Oogie Boogie and that he lives under the treehouse on the edge of town.\n\nJack confronts Oogie and learns that he is behind the whole mess and wants to turn Halloween into Crawloween. Jack and Oogie battle to decide who will rule the town. Oogie claims he will win and turn Halloween Town into Bug Town. Jack defeats Oogie and orders him to fear him and not to leave the lair. Jack rescues Sally, meeting her for the first time, and Halloween goes ahead as planned. Oogie vows to get his revenge.\n\nThe game has a score of 69.43% from GameRankings and 71 out of 100 from Metacritic. IGN gave it a score of 6.5 out of 10, saying, \"\"Nightmare Before Christmas\" might not be all that amazing visually, and audio-wise it's the absolute pits. But it does give kids a solid \"Nightmare Before Christmas\"-based adventure, even if it lacks that special 'zing' that the unique license could have afforded.\"\n"}
{"id": "2081912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081912", "title": "1900s in games", "text": "1900s in games\n\nThis page lists board and card games published in the 1900s (decade).\n\n"}
{"id": "2081914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081914", "title": "Atropos (journal)", "text": "Atropos (journal)\n\nAtropos is a UK-based journal for specialists in Lepidoptera and Odonata. It takes its name from the scientific name of the death's-head hawkmoth, \"Acherontia atropos\".\n\nIt was first published in May 1996.\n"}
{"id": "2081919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081919", "title": "Chromatic fantasia", "text": "Chromatic fantasia\n\nA chromatic fantasia is a specific type of fantasia (or fantasy or fancy) originating in sixteenth-century Europe. In its earliest form, it is based on a chromatically descending tetrachord which arises naturally out of the dorian mode. Consequently the chromatic fantasia is almost invariably in D minor (D-E-F-G-A-B-C rather than D-E-F-G-A-B-C) even as late as Bach.\n\nAmong the earliest examples are two celebrated lute pieces by John Dowland, the \"Farewell\" and \"Forlorn Hope Fancy\". These were obviously highly influential of Jan Pieterszoon Sweelinck whose own Fantasia Chromatica in many ways forms a link between the Renaissance and the Baroque.\n\nThe chromatic fantasy, as a form, fell into neglect in the later seventeenth century. \nAbout a century after Sweelinck, J. S. Bach contributed the most famous examples of the form, in his Chromatic Fantasia and Fugue, BWV 903.\n"}
{"id": "2081932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081932", "title": "SkyDome Cup", "text": "SkyDome Cup\n\nThe SkyDome Cup was a soccer tournament played in late January 1995 in the \"SkyDome\" stadium (now \"Rogers Centre\") between hosts Canada, then European champions Denmark, and Portugal. As the tournament was played in a crucial part of the European leagues the European sides presented alternate sides (Denmark consisting of a Danish League XI), which resulted in the only (or first) international caps for some of players involved.\n\nPlayed January 24, the first match put hosts Canada against Denmark, and resulted in a one-nil win for the European champions with a goal by Højer Nielsen. Canada would play their second game two days later against Portugal, which resulted in a one-goal draw, with goals by António Folha and Alex Bunbury.\n\nWith Canada out of the race with 1 point in their two matches, the winner would be known in the final game, played January 29 between Denmark (who only needed a draw) and Portugal. Paulo Alves scored late in the game, giving Portugal their first victory at senior level.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081937", "title": "Level 3", "text": "Level 3\n\nLevel 3 may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081943", "title": "Spyro: Season of Ice", "text": "Spyro: Season of Ice\n\nSpyro: Season of Ice is a platform game developed by Digital Eclipse and published by Universal Interactive Studios for the Game Boy Advance. It acts as an alternate sequel to the first three games along with \"\" and \"\".\n\nSpyro and Sparx are on holiday with Bianca and Hunter, when Hunter panics mistaking a balloon for a sheep in a flying saucer. Spyro finds on the balloon a message from Zoe asking for help from Grendor who is kidnapping fairies. Bianca left her spellbook behind in the library while she was looking for holiday pamphlets. Grendor had been browsing in Bianca's library and came across Bianca's spellbook. He tried it out, hoping to become a powerful magician, however, he read it upside down and became a two-headed Rhynoc with 4 headaches. He planned to capture all the fairies and use their wings to make a cure for his problem. Spyro and his friends head off to stop Grendor from carrying out his plans.\n\nAfter Spyro traverses many levels (including a first confrontation with Grendor) and saves all the fairies besides Zoe herself, he confronts Grendor for a second time and defeats again, rescuing Zoe. Once free, Zoe lightly chastises Grendor for causing trouble, then uses her magic to cure him of his extra head and all his headaches. Grendor apologizes for his actions, and Spyro and his friends return to their vacation.\n\nThe objective of the game is to release fairies from their ice prisons and to progress from realm to realm before defeating Grendor. Spyro starts off in the Autumn Fairy Home one of the four seasonal fairy realms in the game. In each realm, gems can be collected, critters like sheep can be destroyed for healing butterflies (and some to grant extra lives), special objects (like pumpkins) can be ignited, baskets can be broken for more gems and Bianca and Hunter in various spots can give hints. Spyro can never die in the seasonal realms, with the fairy magic force protecting him from drowning in the water and no enemies present. The realms link to several places via portals. To access them, a number of fairies have to be procured, indicated next to the level name.\n\nSome of the portals will go to levels which are similar in gameplay to the realms except they have enemies to destroy, dangerous territory that harms Spyro, water which Spyro can drown in and special encounters. There are always characters to talk with. One or two characters in a level will asks a request to do something in exchange for a fairy (often referring it to something other than a fairy like a diamond gem). In some levels, Spyro can catch thieves, which can be tricky to do. When all enemies are destroyed, a portal appears and will take Spyro back to the seasonal realm he came from.\n\nSome of the portals will go to a long stretching horizon landscape in which Spyro flies across. The game can be played in Normal and Hard modes, but both will have to be played and won to obtain two fairies. The object of these levels is to move around the screen, flying through hoops, destroying lines of enemies and scattered enemies in a set time limit. Destroying enemies with a different colour from the latter and going through hoops grants Spyro extra time. At the end of level, Spyro must face a boss or two and destroy them.\n\nSome of the portals, Spyro cannot go through with Money Bags guarding them, but Money Bags will allow Sparx to enter for a fee. The fee is only paid once. Sparx enters a level with killer bugs and insects. Destroying the nests of those bugs prevents them from spawning. Keys will enable Sparx to access more of the level. Electric panels can be destroyed to disable barriers that protect certain nests. Weapons can be procured to give Sparx limited increased firepower. At the last room of the level, Sparx will have to face and defeat the boss bug to open a portal back to Spyro and save a fairy.\n\nSpyro is required to defeat Grendor twice, the first time to progress after the first two seasonal realms and the second time after the other two seasonal realms to win the game. If the player collects 100% of all the gems and fairies from all levels and realms, a new portal opens to play the extra game \"Dragonfly X\".\n\n\"Season of Ice\" received \"mixed or average\" reviews, according to review aggregator Metacritic.\n\nIn the United States, \"Season of Ice\" sold 1 million copies and earned $29 million by August 2006. During the period between January 2000 and August 2006, it was the 13th highest-selling game launched for the Game Boy Advance, Nintendo DS or PlayStation Portable in that country.\n"}
{"id": "2081945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081945", "title": "Spyro: Attack of the Rhynocs", "text": "Spyro: Attack of the Rhynocs\n\nSpyro: Attack of the Rhynocs (known in Europe as Spyro Adventure) is an isometric platformer game developed by Digital Eclipse and published by Universal Interactive for the Game Boy Advance in 2003. It was the last Spyro game to be released under the Universal Interactive label, as parent Vivendi Universal Games would retire the name after the release of \"Crash Nitro Kart\". It was also the final Spyro game to be developed by Digital Eclipse, where for the next major handheld entries they would be replaced by Amaze Entertainment.\n\nIn the Professor's lab, The Professor shows Spyro and Sparx his two new inventions. The first is a projector-like peephole machine, enabling them to spy on Ripto. The Professor then displays his next new invention – Butler, a large mechanical bear designed to help him in his lab. Unfortunately Butler malfunctions and the Professor has failed to equip it with an \"off\" switch. Spyro manages to short Butler out by luring him into a power generator, then the peephole machine malfunctions and the hole in the fabric of space begins to expand rapidly.\n\nA terrified Professor tells Spyro about \"Hearts\" – magical objects with very special properties and the only way to control the problem. The Professor is about to give him a warp device that will allow him to travel to all the other lands, when Ripto appears through the hole and claims the device for himself with the advantage he can rapidly conquer the surrounding lands. Ripto warps out Spyro along with Sparx and Butler to the Dragon Shores.\n\nAfter Spyro is able to travel back to the Professor's Lab and travel through the peephole's vortex to Ripto's Chateau, he finds Ripto about to lower the Professor into a pit of lava, but engages in combat with Spyro. After being defeated, Ripto captures him and Sparx. Butler reappears, and the Professor orders him to trap Ripto. Ripto, now incapacitated, yields the final heart and the Professor permanently seals the hole in space.\n\nThe game plays similar to the previous two Game Boy Advance entries but expands on roleplaying concepts and item collecting than the previous two and has a much higher focus on role playing than platforming unlike the previous two entries. Players still collect gems and various other collectables and use portals to warp from level to level.\n\n\"Attack of the Rhynocs\" received \"mixed or average\" reviews, according to review aggregator Metacritic.\n"}
{"id": "2081950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081950", "title": "Spyro 2: Season of Flame", "text": "Spyro 2: Season of Flame\n\nSpyro 2: Season of Flame is a platform game developed by Digital Eclipse and published by Universal Interactive for the Game Boy Advance. It was released in 2002 in North America and in the PAL regions.\n\n\"Spyro 2: Season of Flame\" is the fifth installment in the \"Spyro\" video game series and is a sequel to \"\". The game's story centers on the abduction of the Dragon Realm's fireflies at the hands of the Rhynocs, causing the dragons to lose their ability to breathe fire. The protagonist of the story, Spyro the Dragon, must recover the fireflies and uncover the culprit behind the firefly theft. The game received generally favorable reviews from critics, many of whom considered the game to be superior to \"Spyro: Season of Ice\", though the game was criticized for its \"tricky\" controls.\n\nAfter the events of \"\", Spyro returns to the Dragon Realms and learns an army of Rhynocs infiltrated the Dragon Realms and stole all of its fireflies during Spyro's absence. Without the magic of the fireflies, the dragons cannot breathe fire; their breath, including Spyro's, has been turned icy cold. As a result, the temperatures of the Dragon Realms begin to drop, which threatens to force the dragons to migrate. Spyro, Sparx, Bianca and Hunter set out to uncover the culprit behind the stolen fireflies. Later in the game, a fairy informs the trio that Ripto was the one that stole the fireflies. So the trio set out to stop him. Along the way, They fight Crush and Gulp, Ripto's minions. After crossing more levels they face Ripto in a volcano and defeat him. When he is defeated, the fireflies fly out to warm Up the Dragon Realms.\n\nThe player controls Spyro the Dragon, who must travel through the Dragon Realms and recover the stolen fireflies. Fireflies can be found in many places, either scurrying around in wide-open spaces or hidden behind obstacles. Fireflies can sometimes be received as rewards for performing tasks for the citizens of the Dragon Realms. Once found, the fireflies can be frozen in place by Spyro's ice breath, allowing Spyro to collect them.\n\nIn the Dragon Realms, Spyro can access various other levels by walking through Portals. Entering a Portal will transport Spyro to a world where he will meet creatures that are troubled by the invading Rhynocs. When Spyro helps these creatures, a Portal that leads out of that world will appear, allowing Spyro to return to the Dragon Realms. Some Portals can only be accessed after a certain number of fireflies have been rescued.\n\nAt the beginning of the game, Spyro has the ability to breathe freezing cold air to freeze enemies and fireflies, charge to penetrate armoured enemies and containers, glide through the air and hover at the end of his flight to gain more hang time. By rescuing a certain number of fireflies, Spyro can regain the ability to breathe fire, and may still use his ice breath thanks to the select button. Spyro can later gain the ability to headbutt and break rock formations and barriers. During the game, Spyro can also use special gates to temporarily increase the range of his fire breath, increase the potency of his ice breath or gain the ability to breathe electricity to recharge electric generators.\n\nThe main collectible item is gems, which are scattered everywhere throughout the game. Some gems are hidden in baskets and vases. To obtain these gems, Spyro must use his flame or charge to break open the containers. Gems are used to buy the various services of the character Moneybags.\n\nSparx, the dragonfly that follows Spyro, acts as Spyro's health meter. Spyro begins the game with four hit points and four lives. Spyro can be harmed four times before he loses a life. Each time Spyro loses a hit point, Sparx changes color accordingly. When Spyro loses three of his four hit points, Sparx disappears. Spyro can restore hit points by feeding Sparx butterflies, which can be obtained by killing small animals such as rabbits and sheep. Occasionally, a special butterfly can be found that can give Spyro an extra life. Sparx can also give advice on how to accomplish particular challenges and hints on how to perform certain tasks. The ability to receive advice from Sparx can be toggled on and off from the pause menu.\n\nDuring certain parts of the game, the player's control will switch to either Agent 9 the Monkey or Sheila the Kangaroo. Agent 9 is speedier and more agile than Spyro and is equipped with a laser gun with limited ammunition. Special rooms in which Agent 9 can restock on ammunition can be found throughout the levels in which he is controlled. Sheila can jump higher than Spyro and is equipped with a powerful kick to fend off enemies. When all of the gems and fireflies in the game are collected, a minigame in which Sparx is the player character is made accessible.\n\nThe music and sound effects were created by Robert Baffy, with Ed Cosico composing additional music. The game was announced by Universal Interactive on February 19, 2002.\n\nIn the United States alone, \"Season of Flame\" sold 670,000 copies and earned $15 million by August 2006. During the period between January 2000 and August 2006, it was the 39th highest-selling game launched for the Game Boy Advance, Nintendo DS or PlayStation Portable in that country.\n\n\"Season of Flame\" received generally favorable reviews from critics. Sam Steinberg of GameSpy praised the game's \"challenging and varied gameplay\" and \"colorful graphics\". Anise Hollingshead of GameZone, while criticizing the game's short length and the \"sameness\" of the minigames, said that it is \"a great game for everyone in the family\". Craig Harris of IGN and Frank Provo of GameSpot have declared that the game was superior to its predecessor in a number of areas. Four-Eyed Dragon of GamePro cited the \"tricky controls\" as the only negative point of the game, saying that \"the digital directional pad doesn’t allow for smooth diagonal movement, which Spyro does a lot in each world.\" Ben Kosmina of Nintendo World Report also found fault in the controls, stating that they have not improved from \"Spyro: Season of Ice\" and that it is \"still incredibly awkward trying to control him while gliding, as he'll go zooming off all over the place with the slightest touch.\" \"Game Informer\", while concluding that exploring the worlds was enjoyable, said that \"the jumping portions of the game are still a little iffy, and I killed myself quite a lot from misreading the view\". Scott Alan Marriott of Allgame (\"All Game Guide\" at the time) cited that the graphics, humor and puzzles were \"engaging enough to warrant a purchase for devotees of the purple dragon\", but added that the game would benefit from better controls and more varied objectives. \"Nintendo Power\" noted that the game was presented in the same style and shown from the same isometric perspective as \"Spyro: Season of Ice\". Martin Taylor of Eurogamer cited \"boredom\" as the game's major flaw, saying that nothing in the game \"really makes you want to carry on the story through to its end because none of it is particularly fun.\"\n"}
{"id": "2081952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081952", "title": "Spyro: Enter the Dragonfly", "text": "Spyro: Enter the Dragonfly\n\nSpyro: Enter the Dragonfly is a platformer video game, part of the \"Spyro\" series, developed by Check Six Studios and Equinoxe Digital Entertainment and published by Universal Interactive. It was released for PlayStation 2 and GameCube; ports for Xbox and Microsoft Windows were announced, but ultimately cancelled. While \"Spyro: Enter the Dragonfly\" sold well, it received poor reviews from critics, due to its short length, poor controls, lack of content, inconsistent framerate, long load times, and numerous bugs and glitches.\n\nThe story begins shortly after \"\". The dragons are in celebration of a rite of passage for the young dragons and for the Grand Dragon Parade, with the arrival of new young dragonfly guardians for the baby dragons.\n\nHowever, during the party, Ripto teleports in via a portal along with his henchmen Crush and Gulp, disrupting the celebration, intent on capturing the new young dragonflies to weaken the baby dragons. However, his spell misfires and the dragonflies become scattered throughout the Dragon Realm.\n\nSpyro is tasked with recovering the realm's new crop of dragonflies. Spyro eventually completes his mission and faces Ripto. Spyro wins the battle and Ripto runs for his life, swearing that he will be back. The game ends back at the party, with the celebration being continued.\n\nThe gameplay featured in \"Enter the Dragonfly\" is similar to the previous \"Spyro\" games. However, the game's new addition is multiple breath attacks, such as bubble breath (to trap dragonflies), ice, and electric breath. These abilities are attained from the ancient dragon statue in the homeworld. Spyro also has a block move that will deflect long range attacks and send them back at the enemy.\n\nOn September 21, 2000, Universal Interactive Studios and Konami announced that they had entered an agreement that would enable Konami to publish a \"Spyro\" game for next-generation game systems along with \"Crash Bandicoot\", with Universal Interactive handling the production of the games. The agreement also served to break the \"Spyro\" and \"Crash\" franchises's exclusivity to Sony-produced consoles and effectively which also made Spyro a mascot character for Universal rather than Sony.\nAfter Universal fell out with Cerny and Sony, Stewart Copeland, composer of the previous three \"Spyro\" games as well as \"Enter the Dragonfly\" stated he started to feel a \"divergence\" with publisher Universal Interactive, stating \"I remember the team came in to create the promotional materials for \"Enter The Dragonfly\". They showed me an ad they had, which I didn’t even recognise as Spyro. It was country and western-themed, and I think that’s where the divergence happened for me. We were not on the same page any more.\"\n\n\"Enter the Dragonfly\" received \"mixed or average reviews\" for the PlayStation 2 version and \"generally unfavourable reviews\" for the GameCube version, according to review aggregator Metacritic.\n\nIGN gave the game a 6/10, stating that, \"Enter the Dragonfly is essentially a replica game, a side step or a lateral move rather than a step forward. So, what it comes down to is this: Are you up for more of the exact same Spyro game?\" Ted Price, the President of Insomniac Games, even spoke out about how bad he found the game; in an interview, he stated, \"Spyro has become an abused stepchild... Spyro: Enter the Dragonfly on PS2 and GameCube was an absolute travesty.\"\n\nA large criticism for the game was its numerous bugs and glitches. Some reviewers speculated that this was caused by a rushed development cycle to reach a scheduled release date. Matthew Gallant, writing for GameSpot, gave the GameCube version of the game a 3.2/10 and the PlayStation 2 version a 2.8/10, saying \"Even the biggest fans of Spyro are going to have a hard time enjoying this game. The leap to the latest generation of consoles leaves them with a slower game, a shorter game (10 hours), and an all-around less enjoyable game, not to mention a buggy one.\" Critics also reported that the technical issues extended to sound. Gamershell claimed: \"Let's remember some basic school knowledge first: sounds that origin from far away are more silent than sounds which are near us. Not so in Spyro. Something went very wrong with the sound positioning system. Sounds from far away often sound like directly in front of you.\"\n\nAnother criticism for the game was the framerate. Ben Kosmina of Nintendo World Report mentions that, \"While running around the Dragon Realms (the overworld of the game) if there's too many sheep or moving characters on screen, the game will skip frames excessively. It also happens while running or flying through levels where there are a lot of characters, and even sometimes when there aren't any characters in the area! This is just unacceptable.\" IGN shared this complaint, adding \"The framerate suffers often, chugging from around a maximum of 30 fps downward, depending on the area. Which is kind of strange, because these worlds aren't much bigger than those on the PlayStation versions of Spyro. There aren't many more enemies on screen, and the textures are still the same, simple flat shaded swaths of primary colors, just like the others. Oftentimes, entire areas pop in because of weird problems with load issues.\"\n\nCritics also had issues with control and collision detection. Ben Koshima of Nintendo World Report mentioned, \"Due to the awful control you have over Spyro when he's flying, you'll be plummeting off cliffs, missing switches you're trying to ground pound, swerving all over the place while trying to land properly and falling off small platforms for no reason at all.\" Darkstation claimed, \"When you try to talk to a character if it does not already automatically pop up and start talking to you out of nowhere you have to get in a specific spot in which you have to get to talk to another character.\"\n\nThe PlayStation 2 version of \"Enter the Dragonfly\" received a \"Platinum\" sales award from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), indicating sales of at least 300,000 copies in the United Kingdom alone.\n"}
{"id": "2081959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081959", "title": "1930s in games", "text": "1930s in games\n"}
{"id": "2081971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081971", "title": "F15", "text": "F15\n\nF15 or F-15 may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081972", "title": "1960s in games", "text": "1960s in games\n\nThis page lists board games, card games, and wargames published in the 1960s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081981", "title": "Canadian Hydro Developers", "text": "Canadian Hydro Developers\n\nCanadian Hydro Developers, Inc. was a Canadian company that operated 12 hydroelectric power sites, eight wind power sites and one biomass power site in Canada.\n\nCanadian Hydro was founded by two brothers John and Ross Keating with Jack McCleary. In 1989 Canadian Hydro had secured $1.3 million in equity and a contract with TransAlta to build three small run-of-river facilities. Revenue from these plants were then used in part to finance the future plants.\n\nIn January 2005 the firm bought Canadian Renewable Energy Corporation (CREC).\n\nIn December 2006 the firm bought Vector Wind Energy\nwhich has over 13 projects either built or in the process as of 2007.\n\nAnnounced in February 2007 (and finalized in March) the firm bought GW Power Corporation.\n\nIn December 2009 TransAlta acquired Canadian Hydro Developers at $5.25 cash per share.\n\nAll facilities are owned by Canadian Hydro Developers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081987", "title": "Chapman function", "text": "Chapman function\n\nA Chapman function describes the integration of atmospheric absorption along a slant path on a spherical earth, relative to the vertical case. It applies for any quantity with a concentration decreasing exponentially with increasing altitude. To a first approximation, valid at small zenith angles, the Chapman function for optical absorption is equal to \n\nwhere \"z\" is the zenith angle and sec denotes the secant function. \n\nThe Chapman function is named after Sydney Chapman.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081989", "title": "Mpulungu", "text": "Mpulungu\n\nMpulungu is a town in the Northern Province of Zambia, at the southern tip of Lake Tanganyika.\n\nFrom Mpulungu, boats reach DR Congo, Tanzania and Burundi. The MV \"Liemba\" ferry sails from Mpulungu to Kasanga and Kigoma in western Tanzania, with connections from there to Bujumbura.\n\nMpulungu is also a fishing port and lies at the end of the old Great North Road.\n\nIn 2007 it was proposed to give Mpulungu rail access with a junction off the TAZARA line at Nseluka. This link plus another between Mpika and Mchinji would greater shorten the rail distance to a deepwater port at Nacala in Mozambique.\n\nIn the period up to the First World War and for about a decade afterwards, all vessels at the southern end of Lake Tanganyika had to lie offshore at Katuta Bay and unload by lighter or local canoe. This was thought highly unsatisfactory as the SS Liemba was then exposed on a lee shore to storms from the Northerly trade winds which could cause a dangerous sharp swell in the shallow waters of the bay. Also the ship’s derricks could not be used efficiently to unload heavier or bulk cargoes like bags of cement or large oil drums.\n\nJ.H. Venning, the British South Africa Company Provincial Commissioner in Abercorn – then the Provincial Headquarters – had imported an ex Union Castle Line lifeboat that he used for fishing on the lake. During the course of these expeditions he had come to regard the channel between Kumbula Island and the shore line at Mpulungu as a safe haven. One evening he was discussing the Katuta Bay problem with the Captain of the SS Liemba and mentioned the protected channel. Between them they then formed a plan to take the Governor, who was to visit shortly, on a fishing trip.\n\nThe fishing expedition duly took place in 1925. Venning took his boat into the channel and they landed and had a splendid picnic provided by the cook of the SS Liemba. When everyone was comfortable and excellent fishing and a good lunch and Champagne been enjoyed, Venning turned to the Captain of SS Liemba and said in as casual a tone of voice “Wouldn’t this make a good place for a harbour?”\nThe Captain then replied with enthusiasm pointing out its many advantages.\nThe Governor, at his ease and relaxed, then asked how much Venning thought it would cost. He probably thought that the cost would be so great that he could rule it out immediately.\nBut Venning said “ Well I think I could fix it up for about £50” While £50 was a considerable sum in those far off days it was still far below a realistic cost. Venning knew that the Governor had discretion to spend £50 on his own say-so without having to go through estimates, budget and treasury procedures.\n\nThe Governor, maybe by then Sir Herbert Stanley, told Venning to go ahead.\nVenning knew that, with a little judicious juggling of funds and the use of the prisoners from Abercorn jail, he could construct the 27 mile road on a route he had already surveyed. He later obtain a grant of a further £150 to improve the road bridges, and build a jetty and a Customs warehouse. A Wharf was constructed by Tanganyika Railways in the 1930.\n\nThis was all completed on “budget” and Mpulungu was founded as the southern Transport Terminus of Lake Tanganyika.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081991", "title": "1971 in games", "text": "1971 in games\n\nThis page lists board and card games, wargames, and miniatures games published in 1971. For video and console games, see 1971 in video gaming.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081996", "title": "This Is Your Bloody Valentine", "text": "This Is Your Bloody Valentine\n\nThis Is Your Bloody Valentine is the debut mini album by the alternative rock band My Bloody Valentine, released in January 1985 on Tycoon Records. Recorded in West Berlin, Germany, it features the band's early gothic rock and post-punk sound, which contrasts the shoegazing sound with which My Bloody Valentine are associated.\n\nThe band secured a contract with Tycoon Records after sending a demo tape they had recorded in their hometown—Dublin, Ireland— to a label associate. The demo tape included five songs, \"Girl on the 13th Floor\", \"Halfwalk\", \"Last Tango in Paradise\", \"The Garden of Delight\" and \"Don't Cramp My Style\", the latter of which was re-recorded for the album. The demo was recorded in guitarist Kevin Shields' parents' home in Killiney, South Dublin. Shields and drummer Colm Ó Cíosóig later overdubbed bass and drum tracks at Litton Lane Studios.\n\nUpon its release, the album made little impression and the band relocated to London, United Kingdom. Similarities between My Bloody Valentine and The Jesus and Mary Chain had been suggested in the music press but guitarist Kevin Shields later told \"Melody Maker\" \"we've got a mini-LP we made in Berlin in '84, pre-Mary Chain [...] with all our traits there—feedback thrash.\" AllMusic reviewer Stephen Thomas Erlewine has referred to the album as \"an unfocused and derivative collection of post-punk goth rock\". \"This Is Your Bloody Valentine\" was reissued in 1990 by Dossier Records on LP and CD.\n\nAll personnel credits adapted from \"This is Your Bloody Valentine\"s liner notes.\n\nMy Bloody Valentine\n\nTechnical personnel\n\nFootnotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2081997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081997", "title": "Locust Fork of the Black Warrior River", "text": "Locust Fork of the Black Warrior River\n\nThe Locust Fork River, in the U.S. State of Alabama, is one of three major tributaries of the Black Warrior River, stretching across Blount, and some portions of Etowah, Jefferson and Marshall counties. Its course (1) drains a watershed of and comprises challenging whitewater rapids popular with canoers and kayakers, as well as smooth water sections for tubing, and spots for sport fishing. Anglers hail some of those spots as among the best sport fishing in AL.\n\nThe Locust Fork River ranks in the top 2% of the nation's free flowing rivers with “outstandingly remarkable values” in all seven categories of the Nationwide Rivers Inventory of the National Park Service, (https://www.nps.gov/subjects/rivers/alabama.htm).\n\nThe Locust Fork is home to the nationally sanctioned annual Locust Fork Canoe and Kayak Races, http://alabamacupraces.com/races.html\n\nIn the late 1980s, the Birmingham Water Works proposed damming the river as a source of drinking water.  When those plans became public, the  grass-roots Friends of the Locust Fork River formed to investigate. The group  held public meetings and suggested better sources of water for the metropolis.  Plans for the dam were finally suspended.\n\nHistory\n\nThe Locust Fork is an ancient river with a surprising history. The river and its tributaries have carved a path through the surrounding ridges of sandstone and chert at least a dozen times - geological evidence that this river is older than the hills through which it flows.\n\nThat geology demonstrates that across the millennia as the Appalachians and other uplifts of the land slowly took place, the river cut through.  Today it exhibits hairpin curves bordered by steep bluffs, called “entrenched meanders”. Together the river and ridges have created an array of habitats for a distinctively rich diversity of life.  \n\nIn spite of threats, the Locust Fork remains free-flowing, preserving some of that rich bio-diversity, although human activity has caused many extinctions of rare and unusual species.\n\nThe river provided Native Americans ample food and shelter, resulting in abundant artifacts in the watershed.\n\nThe river's winding course caused the early white settlers to build many bridges, some of which survive from the past: Swann Covered Bridge https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swann_Covered_Bridge Horton Mill Covered Bridge\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horton_Mill_Covered_Bridge and Easily Covered Bridge\n\nToday in Blount County 115 bridges longer than 20 feet currently in operation cross the Locust Fork River.\n\nSettlers also built water-powered grain mills in almost every valley. Most of them are gone.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081998", "title": "Maine State Route 111", "text": "Maine State Route 111\n\nState Route 111 (SR 111), also known as the Carl Broggi Highway, is a state highway in southern Maine. It runs east–west, connecting the towns of Alfred and Biddeford. It is a major east-west corridor in central York County, Maine.\n\nSR 111 begins at its junction with U.S. Route 202 (US 202), SR 4, and SR 4A in Alfred, Maine. It travels east along Biddeford Road/Carl Broggi Highway. Outside the Alfred city limits, Biddeford Road becomes \"Alfred Road\". SR 111 intersects SR 35 at Goodwin Mills Road, then continues into Biddeford crossing Interstate 95 (Maine Turnpike) at exit 32.\n\nSR 111 continues as Alfred Street, the turnpike link into downtown Biddeford. Just prior to entering downtown Biddeford, it intersects US 1, then reaches its eastern terminus at the junction with SR 9/SR 208.\n\nFor the majority of its length, SR 111 is a two lane road. However it has recently been widened to four lanes for a short distance between The Shops at Biddeford Crossing and US 1 due to heavier traffic from nearby shopping centers.\n\nSR 111's entire distance was once designated as part of the now-defunct New England Interstate Route 11, which traversed from Biddeford to Manchester, Vermont (near the Vermont - New York border). The road was most likely renamed as Route 111 to commemorate its association with the historic New England Route 11.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082016", "title": "Norman Snow", "text": "Norman Snow\n\nNorman Snow (born March 29, 1950) is an American actor who is probably best known for his role as the evil tyrant Xur in the science fiction film \"The Last Starfighter\" (1984).\n\nSnow is acknowledged in the acting community as an accomplished character actor, with the vast majority of his work being roles in television series since the late 1970s, in series such as \"Man from Atlantis\", \"Quantum Leap\", \"L.A. Law\" and \"Beverly Hills, 90210\". A highlight of Snow's television career is the role of Torin in an episode of \"\" called \"Rightful Heir\" during the series' sixth season.\n\nHis film career has been more sporadic with roles ranging from the aforementioned \"The Last Starfighter\" in 1984, to the FBI agent Springfield in the 1986 Michael Mann 'Hannibal Lecktor' thriller \"Manhunter\". Snow returned to cinema screens in 2001 in the film \"Moonbeams\" and is slated to be next seen in \"The Last Starfighter\" sequel, \"Starfighter\", reuniting Snow with the film's original director Nick Castle.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082021", "title": "Tony Tan (disambiguation)", "text": "Tony Tan (disambiguation)\n\nTony Tan may also refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2082025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082025", "title": "USS Thatcher (DD-514)", "text": "USS Thatcher (DD-514)\n\nUSS \"Thatcher\" (DD-514), a , was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for Rear Admiral Henry K. Thatcher (1806–1880).\n\n\"Thatcher\" was laid down on 20 June 1942 at Bath, Maine, by the Bath Iron Works Corp.; launched on 6 December 1942; sponsored by Miss Charlotte L. Hyde; and commissioned on 10 February 1943, Lieutenant Commander Leland R. Lampman in command.\n\nThe destroyer held her shakedown training in Casco Bay and was then assigned escort duty. She stood out of New York on 29 April with convoy UGF-8 for Casablanca and returned with GUF-8 on 31 May. On 11 June, \"Thatcher\" departed the east coast for duty in the Pacific. She joined the Pacific Fleet on the 19th and, after calling at Mare Island Naval Shipyard for armament modifications, arrived at Pearl Harbor on 31 July.\n\nOn 22 August, \"Thatcher\" joined the fast aircraft carrier task group of Rear Admiral Charles Alan Pownall. It steamed toward Marcus Island and launched air attacks against that enemy base on the 31st. The group returned to Pearl Harbor on 7 September.\n\nThe following week, the destroyer got underway for the New Hebrides and arrived at Espiritu Santo on the 27th. She performed escort duty between Espiritu Santo and Guadalcanal and then screened a resupply convoy to Vella Lavella in mid-October. In late October, Task Force 39 (TF 39), composed of Cruiser Division 12 and Destroyer Divisions (DesDiv) 45 and 46, was assembled at Purvis Bay to support the landings on Bougainville. The force—including \"Thatcher\" in DesDiv 46—sortied on 30 October.\n\nIt bombarded the Buka-Bonis airfields on the night of 31 October and 1 November and then made a high-speed run to the southern tip of the island to shell airfields in the Shortland Islands. After the landings on Cape Torokina on 1 November, TF 39 protected the amphibious forces from enemy interference. That afternoon, TF 39 was ordered to intercept a force of enemy cruisers and destroyers that had left Rabaul to destroy American shipping in Empress Augusta Bay.\n\nAt 02:27 on 2 November, radar on the American ships showed surface blips at a range of slightly over 35,000 yards (32 km). The Battle of Empress Augusta Bay began when the destroyers of DesDiv 45 fired a salvo of 25 torpedoes at the Japanese ships. However, due to a right turn by the enemy to close and to get into battle formation, all of the torpedoes missed.\n\nDesDiv 46—composed of \"Thatcher\", , , and —was protecting the rear of the American formation. These ships held their fire until 03:52 when they launched 19 torpedoes against two Japanese destroyers without scoring. However, the American cruisers had been tallying hits on the Japanese cruiser , which was soon a blazing wreck. During the ensuing melee, \"Foote\" was hit by a torpedo that blew off her stern. \"Spence\" sideswiped \"Thatcher\", but the resulting damage did not threaten the survival of either ship. \"Spence\" signalled \"Thatcher\" during the battle: \"We’ve just had another close miss. Hope you are not shooting at us.\" \"Thatcher\" replied: \"Sorry. You will have to excuse the next four salvos. They’re already on their way.\" \"Thatcher\"'s salvos missed the \"Spence\" but sank the Japanese destroyer . Finally, \"Spence\" took a hit below the water line that let salt water contaminate her fuel oil. While the Japanese lost \"Sendai\" and \"Hatsukaze\", the United States suffered no total losses as \"Foote\" was towed to port and repaired. The next day, the Japanese attacked TF 39 with over 100 aircraft. They lost over 20 planes while scoring two hits on .\n\nA closer inspection of \"Thatcher\" revealed that her collision with \"Spence\" had sprung her starboard shaft and had caused extensive dishing of her starboard side amidships. She steamed to Purvis Bay and was routed onward to Nouméa where the misaligned screw was repaired. She then returned to Espiritu Santo where she received orders to proceed to the United States for further repairs. On 20 November, \"Thatcher\" got underway as an escort for , and the ships arrived at San Francisco on 14 December 1943. After her damage had been corrected at the Mare Island Navy Yard, \"Thatcher\" stood out of San Francisco on 11 February 1944 and steamed to Pearl Harbor for refresher training before rejoining TF 39 on 14 March.\n\nThe task force covered the unopposed landings on Emirau Island on the 20th. On 26 March, \"Thatcher\" was reassigned to TG 58.3 of the Fast Carrier Task Force. She escorted the carriers as their aircraft flew strikes against Palau, Yap, Ulithi, and Woleai in the Caroline Islands from 30 March to 1 April. The task group then retired to the Marshall Islands to prepare for their next assault against Japanese bases.\n\nOn 13 April, \"Thatcher\" escorted the fast carriers to New Guinea as they launched strikes against Hollandia, Wakde, Sawar Airfield, and Sarmi on the 21st and 22d to support the landings for Operations Reckless and Persecution. On 29 April, aircraft from the carriers began a two-day attack against Truk, Ponape, and Satawan. On 1 May, \"Thatcher\" was in the screen of the bombardment group that shelled Ponape.\n\n\"Thatcher\" returned to Majuro on 4 May to enter a floating drydock for repairs. She returned to sea late in the month for refresher training and firing exercises. On 26 May, her number 3 5 inch gun accidentally fired into her starboard midships 20 mm mount, killing five men and causing considerable structural damage. Repairs were completed in time for the destroyer to accompany TG 58.4 to the Mariana Islands.\n\nWhile operating with the group near Saipan on 12 June, \"Thatcher\" and were ordered to rescue some aviators in the water near Pagan Island. The two destroyers closed to within five miles of the enemy-held island before reaching the pilots. It was shortly before dark and, as \"Charles Ausburne\" was picking them up, \"Thatcher\" investigated a ship which had been sighted about six miles northward. She found a small wooden freighter and took it under fire. The size of the fires which broke out on the target and the subsequent explosions indicated that her cargo was oil and ammunition. Survivors in the water refused the lifelines thrown to them.\n\n\"Thatcher\" rejoined her sister destroyer, and they made a sweep of the island seeking further targets. They soon made radar contact, and both ships began firing at 12,000 yards (11 km) but observed no hits. When they had closed the range to 4,700 yards (4.3 km), \"Ausburne\" fired star shells which revealed a ship similar to the vessel \"Thatcher\" had sunk. She then fired another salvo which set the ship afire. The destroyers found no other targets before they rejoined the task group the next morning.\n\nThe carriers conducted air strikes against the Bonin Islands on 15 and 16 June and returned to the Saipan area. On 18 June, when TF 58 prepared for a major battle with the Japanese fleet, \"Thatcher\"'s group took station on the northern flank of the force. During the ensuing action—later referred to as the \"Great Marianas Turkey Shoot\"—only a few Japanese planes broke through the American fighter cover, and they caused no damage. Meanwhile, the Japanese lost over 300 aircraft.\n\nThe next day, \"Thatcher\" and TG 58.4 were detached from the westward-moving task force to refuel and to continue strikes against Rota and Guam. In the early morning of the 20th, carrier aircraft of the group shot down 18 enemy planes and destroyed 52 more on the ground. On 27 June, \"Thatcher\" was with the destroyer squadron that was detached to accompany and on a bombardment mission against Rota and Guam. \"Thatcher\" and two other destroyers shelled Rota, setting fire to a sugar mill and other buildings, and then joined the other ships off Guam to bombard airfields, shipping, storage tanks, and other worthwhile targets. \"Thatcher\" shelled the same islands again three days later and continued the operation through 1 July.\n\nShe returned to Eniwetok on 6 July with the task group and remained there for a week before heading\nback toward the Marianas. The destroyer served with TF 58 until 2 August when she was detached to join Admiral William Halsey's 3d Fleet at Eniwetok. She then joined TG 30.8, the fleet oiler and transport group established to support the 3d Fleet. The ship stood out of Eniwetok on 26 August with several oilers and arrived at Seeadler Harbor on the 31st. She spent the next three months with various units of the group as it provided fuel, mail, and planes for TF 38. They first operated in the vicinity of Palau and Yap when the carriers struck west of the Carolines. TG 30.8 then moved to Ulithi as the carriers shifted their strikes westward to the Philippines and Formosa.\n\n\"Thatcher\" then joined TG 38.3 for operations in the Philippine Islands. On 14, 15, and 16 December, the carriers launched strikes against Luzon to support the landings on Mindoro. The group retired to refuel, but the rapidly falling barometer indicated a typhoon approaching. \"Thatcher\" was fueled to 50% capacity before the hoses parted due to rough seas. The task force attempted to steam out of the danger area but was near the center of the storm on the 17th and 18th. Three United States destroyers were lost. When the weather cleared and the fleet reassembled, \"Thatcher\" joined TG 30.8, a supply group, and served with it until 7 January 1945.\n\nOn 8 January, \"Thatcher\" joined a special fueling group composed of six of the fastest oilers, two escort carriers, and eight destroyers to conduct fueling operations in the South China Sea for the fast carriers. They accompanied the fast carriers into the South China Sea and took station midway between the Philippines and the coast of Indochina. The destroyer remained on station until the 20th when she headed for Guam with a group of empty oilers. Arriving at Apra Harbor on the 27th, she left for Ulithi and the Philippines the following week.\n\n\"Thatcher\" joined the 7th Fleet at Leyte on 10 February and, three days later, escorted a convoy to Subic Bay. From 19 February to 3 March, the destroyer provided fire support for the Army forces ashore. Following two weeks of escort duty, the destroyer joined TG 78.3, the Visayan Attack Group. The group sailed on 15 March and headed directly to the landing beaches on the south coast of Panay.\n\n\"Thatcher\" was off the landing beaches on 18 March and fired her only bombardment of the day against two groups of Japanese cut off by guerrillas in villages near the assault area. The 40th Infantry Division landed at 09:00 and met very little opposition. As Army troops landed at Negros Occidental on the 29th, the destroyer assisted with call fire and continued the task until 5 April when she was relieved. She refitted at San Pedro to prepare for action in the Ryūkyūs.\n\nOn 13 May, \"Thatcher\" got underway for Kerama Retto, near Okinawa. The destroyer was assigned to radar picket duty to detect and intercept enemy aircraft before they could enter the transport anchorages. On 20 May, she detected large numbers of Japanese aircraft approaching the anchorage. All ships opened fire, and \"Thatcher\" maneuvered to bring all batteries to bear on the attacking planes. As a low-flying Nakajima Ki-43 \"Oscar\" fighter passed down her port side, she increased her speed to 25 knots (46 km/h) and commenced firing with her 20 mm and 40 mm guns. The kamikaze climbed steeply, did a wing-over, and dived into the destroyer, striking her aft of the bridge. All power and steering control on the bridge were lost; both radars and the gyro system were out; all external communications were lost; and there was a six- by nine-foot hole between the keel and the bilge. and came alongside to remove the wounded and help extinguish fires. With 14 killed or missing and 53 wounded, the stricken ship limped into Kerama Retto. \"Thatcher\" awaited drydock entry until 1 July. On the 13th, she was ready for sea and had to ride out a typhoon in Buckner Bay. On the 19th, a kamikaze slipped into the bay and dived on the destroyer. His aim was not as accurate as his predecessor, and he bounced off the port side, above the water line, to explode and burn alongside. Damage was slight, and only two men were wounded.\n\n\"Thatcher\" got underway for the United States on 25 July. After calling at Ulithi, Majuro, Eniwetok, Johnston Island, and Hawaii, she arrived at Bremerton, Washington on 20 August. A survey board decided that the ship should be scrapped, and she was decommissioned on 23 November 1945. \"Thatcher\" was struck from the Navy List on 5 December 1945 and sold on 23 January 1948 to the Lerner Co., Oakland, California, for scrap.\n\n\"Thatcher\" was awarded 12 battle stars for World War II service.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082031", "title": "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus Representative Office to the United States", "text": "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus Representative Office to the United States\n\nThe Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus Representative Office is a commercial enterprise of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and is operating in the United States. The United States does not formally recognise the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. The staff of the Representative Offices do not have diplomatic visas and only operate within the United States using business visas. It is located at 1667 K Street, Northwest in Washington, D.C. The Representative Office in New York City is the \"de facto\" mission of the TRNC to the United Nations Organization (as well as a \"de facto\" Consulate-General).\n\nAs the United States does not officially recognize the TRNC as an independent country, the mission does not have formal diplomatic status under the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. As such, the United States Department of State does not have the TRNC flag as part of its collection of national flags (denoting nations with which the USA has diplomatic relations) at its headquarters in Foggy Bottom, nor does the President of the United States accept credentials from the head of mission.\n\nHilmi Akil serves as the current \"de facto\" TRNC Ambassador (officially regarded as the \"Washington D.C. Representative of the Turkish Cypriot Community\"). He succeeded Osman Ertuğ, who served as the TRNC representative from 2002 to 2007. Kemal Gökeri serves as the current de facto TRNC Chief of Mission (officially regarded as the Representative of the Turkish Cypriot Community in New York City), succeeding Reşat Çağlar in January 2007. Although, TRNC Ambassadors to the USA have no recognition of their TRNC diplomatic passports, TRNC Diplomats also hold Republic of Turkey diplomatic passports and have the status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Turkey due to bilateral arrangements between the TRNC and Turkey.\n\nAmerican Attorney Athan Tsimpedes is currently coordinating legal action against this Representative Office claiming that it is operating as a commercial enterprise and has been selling stolen properties owned by British citizens. The same attorney is also co-ordinating a class action against Northern Cyprus for Greek Cypriots to be compensated for loss of use of their properties since the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in 1974.\n\nIn 2014, in regard with \"Toumazou et al. v. Republic of Turkey et al.\", the court dismissed the case with prejudice for lack of jurisdiction. \n\nBoth the British High Commission in Cyprus and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have issued warnings regarding the purchase of property in Northern Cyprus.\n\nAs well as representing the TRNC, this office supervises the other TRNC Representatives and Honorary Representative offices in the United States (these serve as de facto consulates and Honorary Consulates, with the exception of the TRNC Representative Office in New York, which is the TRNC's unofficial mission to the United Nations).\n\nObjections to the presence of this office by the internationally recognized government of the Republic of Cyprus are countered by the fact that the mission—and its staff—has no official diplomatic status. Under United States law, the presence of the mission is not illegal as it is regarded simply as an information center run by persons with non-diplomatic visas and as such does not imply formal recognition of the TRNC by the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082035", "title": "Joan Baez, Vol. 2", "text": "Joan Baez, Vol. 2\n\nJoan Baez, Vol. 2 was Baez's second album. Released in 1961, the album, like her self-titled 1960 debut album, featured mostly traditional songs. The bluegrass band The Greenbriar Boys provided backup on two songs. \n\"Joan Baez, Vol. 2\" peaked at #13 on the Billboard album chart and was nominated for a Grammy for \"Best Contemporary Folk Performance\".\n\nThe Vanguard reissue contains three unreleased tracks, \"I Once Loved A Boy\", \"Poor Boy\", and \"Longest Train I Ever Saw\".\n\nIn his Allmusic review, music critic Matt Fink wrote of the album: \"The material chosen is truly exceptional... Without a doubt, Baez's version of \"Pal of Mine\" is every bit as vibrant as when the Carters recorded it, though here given a more bluegrass sound by the banjo and backup vocal accompaniment of the Greenbriar Boys. Baez is a true master of her craft, and though she hasn't always made the best choices for material, the 14 interpretations here are as timeless as the songs themselves... this is an album that all fans of traditional folk music should seek out.\"\n\nAll songs traditional, except where noted.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082039", "title": "Vasili Bebutov", "text": "Vasili Bebutov\n\nVasiliy Osipovich Bebutov (, , ) (1 January 1791 – April 7, 1858) was an Imperial Russian general and a member of a Georgian-Armenian noble family of Bebutashvili/Bebutov\n\nBebutov was in the military since 1809. Served in the Russo-Turkish War of 1806–1812 and the Patriotic War of 1812. Since 1816 he was Adjutant General of the H. I. M. Retinue and served with A. P. Yermolov. During the Russo-Turkish War of 1828–29 he participated in the takeover of Akhaltsikhe and commanded the defense thereof against an attempt by Ahmed Pasha of Adjara to recapture it for the Ottomans. In 1830 he was made the governor of the Armenian Oblast. From 1844–47 he fought Imam Shamil. He was awarded the Order of Saint George of the second degree on December 6, 1853 for his services after he defeated the Ottomans in the battle of Başgedikler during the Crimean War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082041", "title": "Broomfield, Essex", "text": "Broomfield, Essex\n\nBroomfield is a village and residential suburb in the City of Chelmsford district, immediately north of the city itself. It is the site of a major Accident & Emergency hospital. There are two public houses as well as primary and secondary schools and sports clubs.\n\nThe village was struck by an F1/T2 tornado on 23 November 1981, as part of the record-breaking nationwide tornado outbreak on that day.\n\nBroomfield Hospital is one of the largest in the East of England. It is a national specialist centre for Plastics and Burns treatment. It also is a specialist clinic for the diagnosis and treatment of complex ENT cases.\n\nThere are two sports clubs - Broomfield F.C. and Broomfield Cricket Club. Broomfield Football Club was established in 1905. The club still plays on its ground in Mill Lane, Broomfield\n\nThe charity Green Zone Community Climate Action begun in the village.\n\nBroomfield Primary School is a primary school located on School Lane, next to the Scouts hut.\n\nChelmer Valley High School is a secondary school situated next to the hospital.\n\nSeveral First Essex bus routes run between Broomfield and Chelmsford city centre.\n\nThe local church is St Mary with St Leonard, on Church Green. It has a round tower which is unusual for an Essex church. It is part of Chelmsford North Deanery.\nThere is also a Methodist church, at 124 Main Road.\n\nBroomfield is the site of an important Anglo-Saxon burial which was discovered by workmen in 1888 after which there was a partial excavation. A more complete excavation was later made by CH Reid. Finds include weapons, gold ornaments and domestic items such as glassware, cups and buckets. The finds are now in the British Museum. The burial has been compared with Taplow and Sutton Hoo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082050", "title": "Lordship of Sidon", "text": "Lordship of Sidon\n\nThe Lordship of Sidon (Later County of Sidon) was one of the four major fiefdoms of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, one of the Crusader States. However, in reality, it appears to have been much smaller than the others and had the same level of significance as several neighbors, such as Toron and Beirut, which were sub-vassals.\n\nSidon was captured in December, 1110 and given to Eustace I Grenier. The lordship was a coastal strip on the Mediterranean Sea between Tyre and Beirut. It was conquered by Saladin in 1187 and remained in Muslim hands until it was restored to Christian control by German Crusaders in the Crusade of 1197. Julien Grenier sold it to the Knights Templar after it was destroyed by the Mongols in 1260 after the Battle of Ain Jalut. One of the vassals of the lordship was the Lordship of the Shuf.\n\n\nThe Schuf was created out of the Lordship of Sidon as a vassal around 1170. It was centred on the Cave of Tyron. Julian of Sidon sold it to the Teutonic Knights in 1256.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082057", "title": "New York State Fair", "text": "New York State Fair\n\nThe New York State Fair, also known as the Great New York State Fair, is a 18-day showcase of agriculture, entertainment, education and technology. With midway rides, concessionaires, exhibits and concerts, it has become New York's largest annual event and an end-of-summer tradition for hundreds of thousands of families from all corners of the state. The first fair took place in Syracuse in 1841 and took permanent residence there in 1890. It is the oldest and one of the largest state fairs in the United States, with over one million visitors annually.\n\nThe New York State Fair begins in August and runs for 18 days, ending on Labor Day.\n\nIt is held at the Empire Expo Center on the shores of Onondaga Lake, in the town of Geddes, near the western border of Syracuse. The New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets owns five of the buildings at the fair and employs its workers.\n\nIn February 1832, The New York State Agricultural Society was founded in Albany by a group of farmers, legislators, and others to promote agricultural improvement and local fairs. The nation's first state fair was later held in Syracuse from September 29–30, 1841. Attendance was estimated at 10,000-15,000; features included speeches, animal exhibits, a plowing contest, and samples of manufactured farm and home goods. The second New York State Fair was held in Albany in 1842. Between 1842 and 1889, the fair traveled among 11 different cities: Albany, Auburn, Buffalo, Elmira, New York City, Poughkeepsie, Rochester, Saratoga Springs, Syracuse, Utica, and Watertown.\n\nIn September 1890, the Syracuse Land Company donated a tract of land in Geddes to the Agricultural Society. Crossed by railways that facilitated exhibit transport, the Onondaga County location became the fair's permanent home. In the late 1890s, The Agricultural Society turned to state government for relief from debt due to the construction of permanent buildings on the site. The state purchased the grounds in 1899, and assumed management of the fair the next year, creating an 11-member State Fair Commission appointed by the governor.\nA $2-million long-term building plan was enacted in 1908, which would last for two decades. During this time, the Manufacturers and Liberal Arts Building, now the Center of Progress Building, was constructed. It was joined by the Dairy Products Building and Grange Building (now the Science & Industry Building) in 1910. During the Great War, the fairgrounds was utilized for military training beginning in May 1917, being designated Camp Syracuse; it trained about 40,000 Soldiers, and was impacted by the Spanish flu in 1918, and closed as a military base in November 1918. The Coliseum was opened in 1923, initially serving as host to the World's Dairy Congress. To address a growing and nostalgic public interest in local history, the Iroquois village exhibit and an agricultural museum were opened in 1928.\n\nThe fair was re-branded as the New York State Agricultural and Industrial Exposition in 1938, reflecting closer ties to industry, and included an extended 14-day schedule featuring popular entertainment acts.\n\nThe fairgrounds were used as a military base during World War II between 1942 and 1947; during this period, no fair was held. A truncated fair returned in 1948, followed the next year by a six-day, full-scale exposition, with large crowds. By the end of the 1950s, the fair had expanded to nine days and achieved an attendance of over 500,000. The James E. Strates Midway was added during this time, with nationally known entertainers to attract families and teenagers. In 1967, the 1925 Mighty Wurlitzer Theatre Pipe Organ was permanently installed in the Empire Theatre of the Art & Home Center where it has entertained audiences for over 50 years of music history at the fairgrounds.\nBetween 1962 and 1966, the fair was officially known as New York State Exposition before being named the New York State Fair in 1967.\n\nThe fair expanded to 10 days in 1978, and the buildings at the fairgrounds began to be rented during the off-season. The fair expanded to 12 days in 1990. During the 1980s and 1990s, fair officials responded to criticism of slim minority presence by adding gospel festivals and a Pan-African village display. Sign language interpreters were also added, and the grounds were made accessible to people with disabilities.\n\nOn September 7, 1998, the fair closed one day early for the first time, due to the Syracuse Labor Day derecho. Two of the storm's three deaths occurred on the fairgrounds.\n\nIn 2006, the Industrial Exhibit Authority, a New York state public-benefit corporation that owned 5 of the buildings at the New York State Fair and employed its workers, was disbanded by the New York State Senate and its workers and buildings were transferred to the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets.\n\nIn 2008, fair administration began to focus more on agriculture, with exhibits showcasing products made in New York State, such as the Pride of New York Marketplace and a permanent maple exhibit. The fair changed its Chevy Court format to include two different performers each day in 2009. The Syracuse Crunch hosted the first outdoor game in American Hockey League history on February 20, 2010 at the Fairgrounds and set a league attendance record with 21,508 fans. A record of 206,000 fairgoers attend Chevy Court concerts during the 12 day run in 2010.\n\nA $50 million transformation of the Fairgrounds, the first major renovation the Fairgrounds had seen in over 100 years, was announced January 21, 2015.\n\nChevy Court's most recent attendance record was set September 6, 2015 with 36,900 people attending a performance by the Steve Miller Band.\n\nThe Fair's previous 2001 attendance record was broken on September 5, 2016, with 1,117,630 Fairgoers visiting the Fair. The 2016 Fair also broke three attendance records and had four days over 100,000 - the most ever.\n\nGovernor Cuomo announced a transformation of the Fairgrounds in 2015 that included a sweeping redesign of the Fairgrounds that included taking out what was previously the 17,000 seat Grandstand and mile-long dirt track. This marked the first major transformation the Fairgrounds had seen in 100 years.\n\nThe transformation including rebuilding the main gate, making it reminiscent of the 1840 carriage entrance. The brand-new Main Gate is ADA-compliant and technologically equipped for faster ticketing and admissions.\n\nThe midway received a new layout that now included 15 acres. The Midway's new asphalt pad is the size of over 10 football fields with more room and better layout for rides and attractions. Improvements include a Kiddieland area, phone charging stations, shaded rest areas, and underground electric/water/sewer for vendors.\n\nA new Empire RV Park was added, included 313 RV sited, fully equipped with sewer, electric and water hookups. The new Empire RV Park is spacious, secure and organized and makes the Fairgrounds accessible year-round for distant travelers. Features include a new grid layout, camera and blue light systems, and online reservations.\n\nThe redesign also included preserving the Historic Quad which includes five of the oldest buildings around an open park setting. Commercial vendors were removed from the Quad to restore the park as a relaxing space to gather and rest, with more seating and better signage.\n\nA new curbed median was added along Hiawatha Street with trees, shrubs and new lighting.\n\nA new entrance along Bridge Street, Gate 11A, ties in with the larger Onondaga Lake West Revitalization Project. Pedestrians can access Gate 11A via a new walkway and viewing platform leading past the Historic Quad to the Crossroads.\n\nIn 2016, Governor Cuomo appointed a Task Force to determine how an addition $50 million for Phase Two of the Fairgrounds would be spent.\n\nChevy Court is an open-air concert theater. In 2009, the fair changed its format to feature two different national performing artists every day, rather than having the same artist perform twice on the same date, in order to attract additional people to the fair with acts appealing to different audiences. Chevy Court performances attracted an estimated 150,000 people in 2009 and more than 170,000 in 2010 and over 200,000 in 2011. The stage has hosted Lady Antebellum, Bruno Mars, REO Speedwagon, and many others. The \"Syracuse New Times\", a regional arts and entertainment publication, named Chevy Court the best free concert venue in Central New York in 2009, 2010 and 2012, and best state fair attraction in 2011. In 2015, Syracuse.com suggested that Chevy Court be named the \"Best Free Concert Series in America.\" The Fair was also the recipient of the People's Choice Syracuse Area Music Award in 2016 for Best Festival.\n\nThe Midway features several rides, funhouses, games, and concession stands. The 2014 Fair brought the first new midway to the Fair in over 70 years, provided by Wade Shows. This change brought new rides, concession stands, and games to the fair. Wade Shows offers promotions to Fairgoers such as dollar ride specials and a Mega Pass which can be used by one person for the entire fair's duration. In addition to the Midway is the Kiddie Midway which features rides and games for younger fairgoers. Approximately 100 rides are located in both the Midway and Kiddie Midway.\n\nAgriculture is a large component of New York State, and a big part of the fair as well. The fairgrounds host a variety of displays, events, competitions, and attractions that teach fairgoers the importance of agriculture.\n\nIn 2011, the fair had over 14,000 animals entered to be exhibited including horses, dairy cattle, rabbits, and dairy goats. In addition to animal entries, 2014 brought in over 10,000 agricultural entries including antique tractors, beverages, Christmas trees, flowers, forage, grain, and 4-H.\n\nThe fair also aims to promote New York-grown products and foods. In 2008, the \"Pride of New York Marketplace\" occupied a permanent structure at the main entrance to the fairgrounds, selling various goods and foods produced in New York state.\n\nIn 2013, the fair brought a new attraction to allow Fairgoers to sample different products from vendors in all regions of the state in the \"Taste NY\" tent. Each day, up to a dozen different food and beverage vendors would offer samples of their products.\n\nThe Center of Progress Building is one of the largest of the 110 buildings on the fairgrounds. The building is located just inside the fair's main gate, along the perimeter of Chevy Court. This building hosts up to 250 vendors and concessionaires and was previously the home of the fair's 180-ton sand sculpture until 2018, when the sand sculpture was moved to the new Exposition Center.\n\nThe new (2018) Exposition Center contains the 180-ton sand sculpture, which is constructed throughout the 13 days of the fair. In 2011, the fair received positive feedback as they paid respect to the victims of 9/11 with a sand sculpture recognizing the 10 years that had passed since the terrorist attacks. Past sand sculpture themes have included The Beatles, Syracuse University, USS \"New York\", Dr. Seuss, and The Olympics.\n\nThe State Fair Coliseum was built in 1923 and its first event was the World's Dairy Congress. Five thousand people came to see Dairy cattle from 40 different countries. In 1947-48 Syracuse University basketball team held their games there and in 1949-1952 the NBA Syracuse Nats called this home. The 1949 game set all-time records for the most points, most fouls, most free throws, most missed free throws, most overtimes, and longest game; most records still hold.\n\nDuring the fair, the Coliseum is used mainly for the multi-breed horse shows which include breeds such as Pinto's, Arabians, Miniature horses, Quarter horses, Morgan, and Appaloosas, hunter/jumpers as well as the draft breeds and the heavy and light horse pulls. This arena also accommodates the Holstein Dairy Cattle Show on the dairy day, the 4-H agility dog show, and multiple other shows on Labor Day.\n\nThe Syracuse Stars hockey team played their games in the Coliseum and won the Calder Cup in the Inaugural Season of (what is now) the American Hockey League. The Midstate Stampede, a youth hockey team, also played in the Coliseum until the ice was removed around 2013. The Syracuse Hornets also played at the Coliseum, but due to financial troubles, the team folded after only 10 games.\n\nThis building is located in proximity to the fair's veterans' memorials and the 9-11 memorials. During the fair, it hosts many horticultural exhibits and concessionaires such as a baked potato booth, the New York Maple Center, and produce, flower, and apple exhibits. A wide variety of additional events are held at the building throughout the year. It includes the fair's New York Café, which operates during the fair and selected events. Horticulture Building also hosts the Taste NY where visitors can try some food and drink samples for free and by their favorite products on the spot.\n\nTen Dairy Products Buildering is family-oriented and contains attractions such as the butter sculpture, and a Milk Bar serving multiple varieties of milk. In 2012, 403,189 cups of milk were sold to fairgoers, breaking an all-time record at the New York State Fair. Other attractions include Dairy Princesses, entertainment on center stage, and samples of various dairy products.\n\nLocated in the center of the Dairy Products Building is the rotating butter sculpture, comprising of unsalted butter. The sculpture has been a feature at the fair since 1969. Once the fair is over, the butter is converted to biofuel to fuel college buses by students of the State University of New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry in Syracuse. The butter sculpture is sponsored by the American Dairy Association and Dairy Council.\n\nDuring the twelve days of the fair, the Dairy Cattle Barn is used by dairy cattle exhibitors. During the offseason, it is utilized as an exhibit building and hosts many trade shows for the public and for various industrial groups.\n\nThis century-old structure serves as an anchor for Chevy Court. During the fair, the building hosts a variety of health and safety-related exhibitions.\n\nThe Art & Home Center is home to a recently renovated demonstration kitchen, which has been the host of several celebrity cooking demonstrations by such chefs as Adam Richman, Bobby Flay, and Mario Batali. The Art & Home Center is the hub of all culinary, art, and craft exhibitions, with various New York's artists displaying photography, woodworking, quilting, needlework, and the fine arts. Each year, the Art & Home Center hosts its annual Women's Day Luncheon. In 2009, the building celebrated its 75th anniversary by celebrating the life of suffragette Harriet May Mills, whom the building is dedicated to. The building also hosts a display of operating model trains and circus trains during each year's fair. In 1966 the Empire State Theatre & Musical Instrument Museum was established featuring an extensive collection of pianos, organs, phonographs, vintage motion picture projectors, and movie palace artifacts, many of which are on permanent display.\n\nThe Art & Home Center contains the Empire Theatre. In addition to being home to local theatrical productions meetings and seminars, the theatre is home to a 1925 Wurlitzer Co. 3 manual 11 rank theatre pipe organ, opus 1143, which was moved from the RKO Keiths Theatre in downtown Syracuse in 1966.\n\nThis building serves as a staple for food enthusiasts during the fair, where fairgoers can choose foods from select countries around the world. In 2010, the International Building was redesigned to feature more seating and a new New York Beer and Wine Pub. In 2015, the International Building added a new Vegan and Vegetarian vendor, which was the first of its kind at the State Fair.\n\nAn educational building for youth and families attending the fair. Upstairs serves as a dormitory for 4-H and FFA youth that are competing at the fair. There are 800 beds, lockers, full shower/bathroom facilities, and laundry. Downstairs has a variety of interactive sections for the youth to participate in, including a newsroom, demo kitchen, animal husbandry, crafts, and GPS mapping.\n\nLocated within the fairgrounds is the \"State Park at the Fair\", billed as the smallest park operated by the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation. The park was first opened in 1974 during celebrations marking the 50th anniversary of the New York State Council of Parks. The facility is located in front of the Horticulture Building and aims to recreate a park-like setting within the fair, including a reflecting pool and mini-golf course. Exhibits within the park demonstrate features and activities available at New York's state parks and historic sites; additional exhibits have included live birds of prey and boating safety demonstrations.\n\n\nThe fairgrounds complex operates year-round and annually hosts more than 500 non-fair events. These range from major entertainment and sporting events to a variety of equestrian competitions, consumer shows, community events, and meetings.\n\nThe Syracuse Nationals classic car show draws nearly 80,000 people to its weekend event at the fairgrounds. The fairgrounds is a key player in New York's equine industry, hosting more than 40 horse events each year. In 2015, 65 trade and consumer shows brought nearly 400,000 people to the fairgrounds. A total of 50 entertainment events ranging from major rock concerts to theater pipe organ concerts attracted 133,235 people.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082059", "title": "Hylobates", "text": "Hylobates\n\nThe genus Hylobates is one of the four genera of gibbons. Its name means \"forest walker\", from the Greek (, \"forest\") and (, \"one who treads\").\n\nIt was once considered the only genus, but recently its subgenera (\"Hoolock\" [formerly \"Bunopithecus\"], \"Nomascus\", and \"Symphalangus\") have been elevated to the genus level. \"Hylobates\" remains the most speciose and widespread of gibbon genera, ranging from southern China (Yunnan) to western and central Java.\n\nIndividuals within this genus are characterized by 44 chromosomes and often have a ring of white fur around their faces.\n\n\nHybrids between Müller's gibbon (\"Hylobates muelleri\") and the Bornean white-bearded gibbon, (\"Hylobates albibarbis\") have been reported in areas of Borneo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082061", "title": "Miss Sarajevo", "text": "Miss Sarajevo\n\n\"Miss Sarajevo\" is a song by U2 and Brian Eno, credited to the pseudonym \"Passengers\". It was released on 20 November 1995 as the only single from their album \"Original Soundtracks 1\". Luciano Pavarotti makes a guest vocal appearance, singing the opera solo. It also appears on U2's compilation \"The Best of 1990-2000\", and was covered by George Michael on his album \"Songs from the Last Century\". While the song did not reach the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, it reached number six on the UK Singles Chart and was a top-ten hit in many other European countries. Bono, the lead vocalist of U2, cites \"Miss Sarajevo\" as his favourite U2 song.\n\nAmerican journalist Bill Carter suggested to Bono an idea to film a documentary based on Sarajevo's underground resistance movement. Not only did Bono produce the film, he also provided the funds needed to support the project. Taken from the sleeves notes to \"Original Soundtracks 1\":\n\nBono went on to say that he felt that these lyrics reflected what the people of Sarajevo were feeling at the time. \"Original Soundtracks 1\" is an album of songs based mostly on non-existent films; however, \"Miss Sarajevo\" is one of four tracks from the album that are based on real films. The film \"Miss Sarajevo\" is a documentary by Bill Carter about a beauty pageant held in the midst of besieged Sarajevo, capital of Bosnia-Herzegovina. The winner was a 17-year-old blonde named Inela Nogić. Carter travelled to Sarajevo in the winter of 1993 to offer humanitarian aid and quickly found himself in the heart of the conflict. He lived for six months in a burnt-out office building, subsisting on baby food and whatever water he could find in the rivers and sewers and delivering food and medicine to those in need.\n\nCarter originally contacted U2 while they were on their Zoo TV Tour to show audiences the real people involved, feeling that the western media were ignoring the human aspect of the war. The band arranged for several satellite link-ups where Carter gave the locals—who had been cut off from communication with the rest of Europe for about a year and a half at this point—an opportunity to be heard before stadiums of thousands. The link-ups were brief and unedited.\n\nCarter had his camera sent to him from his home in California so he could film the documentary (which was produced by Bono) with the same goal of exposing people to the individuals living through the war. \"The war is just a backdrop, it could be any war, the point is the vitality of the human spirit to survive, [to] laugh, to love, and to move on, that is something we will be addressing always.\" The song protests the war in Bosnia, criticising the international community for its inability to stop the war or help those affected by it. It was the only single released from the album. Its video combines clips from Bill Carter's documentary with footage from the Passengers' first performance of the song at the 1995 \"Pavarotti and Friends\" concert in Modena. Clips from the documentary contain striking imagery, such as a shot of beauty pageant contestants holding up a banner with the words \"DON'T LET THEM KILL US,\" as seen on the single's artwork. Carter's Sarajevo documentary was one of two Dreamchaser nominees for the 1995 International Monitor Awards, in Washington, D.C. Carter would ultimately prevail over a Chernobyl documentary \"Black Wind, White Land\", made by fellow nominee and Bono's wife, Ali Hewson.\n\nCarter and Bono's documentary collaboration reflects on the personal accounts of the civilians of Sarajevo, a city torn by modern warfare during the Siege of Sarajevo. This conflict stems from the ethnic struggle between Bosnian Serb and Bosnian Muslim government forces. Once Bosnia and Herzegovina had declared their independence from Yugoslavia, the Serbs from Sarajevo suburbs surrounded the capital, Sarajevo, as they planned to include a territory of the country as part of their new Serbian state of Republika Srpska. This is the longest siege of a capital city in the history of modern warfare, lasting from April 1992 till February 1996. The population of Sarajevo was reduced to poverty, no longer having access to public transit, water, gas and electricity, depending greatly on relief agencies. By October 1992 no-fly zones were established by the UN, making it very difficult for any media cover or relief plans to be sent into the country.\n\nAccording to Bono, Pavarotti was very fond of the idea of collaboration. Even before \"Miss Sarajevo\" was thought of, \"He had been asking for a song. In fact, asking is an understatement. He had been crank-calling the house. He told me if I didn't write him a song, God would be very cross.\"\n\n\"Miss Sarajevo\" was first performed 12 September 1995 at the annual \"Pavarotti and Friends\" concert in Modena, Italy. Bono, The Edge and Brian Eno joined Pavarotti on stage, with a complete orchestra, to premier the new \"Original Soundtracks 1\" future single. All three dressed in black suits and white shirts and this was one of very few occasions where The Edge performed without his famous headgear. Anna Coleman, wife of Marc Coleman who works closely with the band, wrote the Italian libretto for the track. Roughly translated by Bono, the lyrics read:\n\nIn addition to the \"Pavarotti and Friends\" performance, the song was played once on U2's 1997 PopMart Tour in Sarajevo with Brian Eno. U2 was the first band able to host a concert in the city since the end of the war, and the band was very pleased to be present there at the time. As per the Sarajevans' request, the show was not a benefit concert, and the band performed just as they did in any other city on the tour. The actual winner of the Miss Sarajevo pageant, Inela Nogić, was present at that show, and was escorted to the concert with the band themselves. Bono lost his voice during the concert, and unfortunately messed up during the performance of \"Miss Sarajevo,\" and said afterwards, \"Sarajevo, this song was written for you. I hope you like it, because we can't fucking play it.\" In reference to the performance, Larry Mullen, Jr. said, \"That [was] an experience I will never forget for the rest of my life. And if I had to spend 20 years in the band just to play that show, and have done that, I think it would have been worthwhile.\"\n\nAfter its only live performance by U2 from 1997, the song was played live many times on the band's Vertigo Tour. On the tour's second leg in Amsterdam, \"Miss Sarajevo\" was played for the first time during the tour, replacing the usual nightly performance of \"Running to Stand Still,\" and was played each night for the remaining 86 shows in the tour. During the performances, Bono sang opera solo part and The Edge played the song on the piano instead of the guitar. At the end of the performance each night, a video was shown with a woman reciting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Versions of performances from the Vertigo Tour concerts in Milan can be found on the album \"U2.COMmunication\", in the video \"\", and the concert film \"U23D\".\n\nThe song returned on the third leg of the band's U2 360° Tour, making its first appearance on the first show for the 2010 leg of the tour, taking place in the Stadio Olimpico di Torino in Torino, Italy. During the performance, which is somewhat similar to the performance on the Vertigo Tour, The Edge plays on the piano and Bono sings the whole song plus the opera solo.\n\nThe song was played on The Joshua Tree Tour 2017 to note the Syrian refugee crisis. Bono has said that, on this tour, the song has been retitled \"Miss Syria\".\n\nStephen Thomas noted that, while the collaboration seemed like \"a step too far\" on paper, the end result combined U2's rock with Eno's ambience and Pavarotti's emotion. He wrote that the \"overall result is a startling realisation that not only are the two music genres, opera and rock, not mutually incompatible, but that Bono and Pavarotti's very different singing styles and capabilities sit unexpectedly well alongside one another.\"\n\nThe \"Miss Sarajevo\" single was backed with the following B-Sides:\n\nThere are six different versions of this song available:\n\nThe music video for this song, directed by Maurice Linnane, is a montage of three different events: the beauty contest described in the song, the original performance from the \"Pavarotti and Friends\" concert, and a tour through the streets of war-torn Sarajevo, under gunfire from the nearby troops. The video is featured on \"The Best of 1990-2000\" DVD with a director's commentary, and a documentary entitled \"Missing Sarajevo\".\n\nAnother version of this video exists, featuring only the footage from the Modena concert.\n\nA third version of the video shows only the footage from war-torn Sarajevo and the beauty contest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082064", "title": "California State Route 68", "text": "California State Route 68\n\nState Route 68 (SR 68) is a state highway in the U.S. state of California, located entirely in Monterey County. It runs from Asilomar State Beach in Pacific Grove to U.S. Route 101 in Salinas. The approximately long highway serves as a major route between the Monterey Peninsula and Salinas.\n\nSR 68 begins as Asilomar Avenue in the city of Pacific Grove at an intersection with Lighthouse Avenue, near the Point Pinos Lighthouse. The highway continues south to an intersection with Sunset Drive, turning east on Sunset Drive before continuing south after roughly half a mile onto Forest Avenue. Soon after entering Monterey and passing by the Presidio of Monterey, SR 68 becomes the W.R. Holman Highway until its junction with SR 1 at the terminus of the 17 Mile Drive.\n\nSR 68 is concurrent with SR 1 for until nearing the Monterey County Fairgrounds. At this point, SR 68 exits SR 1 onto the Monterey-Salinas Highway, which is a freeway for the first half mile. The freeway becomes a highway and passes by the Monterey Regional Airport, intersecting SR 218 at Del Rey Oaks, continuing for towards Salinas. The route goes past Pasadera, WeatherTech Raceway Laguna Seca, Laureles Grade, Corral De Tierra, San Benancio, Toro Park and Spreckels, becoming a freeway for the last before Salinas, eventually turning north. At the city limits, SR 68 becomes South Main Street and continues to downtown. SR 68 makes a right off of Main and follows John Street to its terminus at U.S. Route 101.\n\nHighway 68 is heavily traveled. The road has a design capacity of 16,000 vehicles per day. As of 2006, it carries about 26,000 vehicles per day. This figure is projected to increase as residential development in and around Salinas continues, and the Monterey Peninsula's tourism economy continues to expand. The Monterey-Salinas Highway is the main connector between Monterey and Salinas. The Holman Highway is the main connector between Pacific Grove and Carmel. Highway 68 and the \"68\" road symbol have become iconic in Pacific Grove skating culture. This association developed after the opening of the skate shop \"68 Skate\".\n\nSR 68 is part of the California Freeway and Expressway System, and east of SR 1 is part of the National Highway System, a network of highways that are considered essential to the country's economy, defense, and mobility by the Federal Highway Administration. SR 68 is eligible for the State Scenic Highway System; however, only the part from SR 1 to the Salinas River is designated by Caltrans as a scenic highway. The Monterey-Salinas Highway is a California Scenic Route because of its views of the chaparral and springtime lupin for between State Route 1 in Monterey to the Salinas River. State Route 68 is part of the Juan De Anza Trail.\n\nHighway 68 is part of the DeAnza Trail, a route that linked all of California's mission settlements during the Spanish colonial period. With the advent of the automobile, Highway 68 was upgraded from a dirt wagon road to a 2-lane paved road in 1937.\n\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s, Caltrans had planned to upgrade Highway 68 to a freeway between Salinas and Highway 1 in Monterey, that was to start at US 101 south of the city and proceed west between Salinas and Spreckels, serving as a bypass for Salinas. The freeway was to then follow the existing Highway 68 alignment into Monterey.\n\nThe freeway plan died as a result of environmental concerns along the route. The only portions of this freeway that were actually built were a section approaching the Highway 1 interchange in Monterey, and a segment starting in Spreckels and heading west, bypassing the unincorporated village of Toro Park. The segment around Spreckels opened in 1967 and included a pair of new bridges spanning the Salinas River, which replaced an old truss bridge built in 1889. At the western terminus of the Spreckels freeway segment, land acquired for the freeway can still be seen.\n\nThere continues to be discussions, but no definitive plans, to either bypass Route 68 or convert the existing road to 4-lanes by building a second roadway alongside the present 2-lane carriageway. Caltrans and Monterey County officials mention the most practical route for a bypass would be to the north of the existing Route 68, through Fort Ord. A major upgrade of the Highway 68 corridor would cost on the order of $300 million. In the fall of 2007, Caltrans is scheduled to begin a $6 million project to implement safety upgrades at three major intersections along Highway 68.\n\nMeanwhile, Caltrans and Monterey County are proceeding with a plan to divert Monterey-Salinas traffic away from Highway 68 by converting Davis Road and Reservation Road from two lanes to four between Highway 101 on the north side of Salinas and Highway 1 in Marina. These two roads pass through Fort Ord and the upgrades are using excess land set aside following the base's closure in 1994. The Davis Road/Reservation Road upgrade is a short-term fix, and most state and county officials realize that a permanent fix for Highway 68 will eventually be necessary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082070", "title": "Conservative holiness movement", "text": "Conservative holiness movement\n\nThe conservative holiness movement is a loosely defined group of conservative Christian denominations with the majority tracing their origin back to Methodist roots and the teachings of John Wesley, and a minority being Quakers (Friends) that emphasize the doctrine of George Fox, as well as River Brethren who emerged out of the Radical Pietist revival. This movement became distinct from other Holiness bodies in the mid-20th century amid disagreements over modesty in dress, entertainment, and other \"old holiness standards\" reflective of the related emphases on the Wesleyan-Arminian doctrine of outward holiness or the Quaker teaching on the testimony of simplicity or the River Brethren teaching on nonconformity to the world, depending on the denomination. \n\nThe Holiness movement was largely contained within mainline Methodism during the 19th century, with some members of the holiness movement continuing to remain in the mainline Methodist Churches to this day (the \"stay-inners\"). Wesleyan-Holiness doctrine influenced adherents of other denominations as well. By the 1880s a persistent wave of \"come-outism\" was beginning to gather steam. The come-outers were concerned that mainline Methodism had begun to water-down Holiness teachings and even shun its more outspoken proponents.\n\nThe majority of the denominations which now comprise the Conservative holiness movement were once among a number of Holiness movement groups which had a history of coming out or having left mainline Methodism to teach and practice Holiness doctrine uninhibited. The denominations that left the mainstream holiness movement and mainline Methodism to form the conservative holiness movement did so because they saw a relaxation of the prohibitions on certain behaviours that they considered to be \"worldly\". The list of prohibitions varies from denomination to denomination, but the prohibitions include the wearing of gold (which includes wedding rings), television in the home (an extension to previous bans on theater patronage), women not cutting their hair (in accordance with historic interpretations of I Corinthians 11), the prohibition of women wearing short skirts, wearing short sleeves (most recommending the sleeve to be at or below the elbow), not wearing shorts, the avoidance of bowling allies and skating rinks, and the condemnation of professional sports, especially on the Sunday Sabbath. Members of denominations in the conservative holiness movement also practice temperance and teetotalism, thus abstaining from alcohol and other drugs. Each major denomination enforces some of the disciplines listed above, so there is some variation amongst the groups. It is these disciplines that define the conservative holiness movement.\n\nThe Holiness movement, for the most part, huddled together tightly from its early history to later when Pentecostalism was competing for the hearts and minds of its adherents.\n\nDuring the Fundamentalist–Modernist Controversy of the 1920s and onward, most Holiness groups found themselves at home in the Fundamentalist camp or allied with them. While many Holiness groups made the jump toward the Evangelical movement in the late 1930s, there were groups that felt their Holiness peers were drifting away from Biblical inerrancy and cultural separation. \n\nThe Reformed Free Methodist Church left the Free Methodist Church in 1932 and the Emmanuel Association left the Pilgrim Holiness Church in 1937—both schisms were due to what the departing bodies perceived as a laxity in traditional doctrine and standards. Samuel West spearheaded the formation of the Reformed Free Methodist Church, which held its annual Flatwoods Camp Meeting in Perryopolis, Pennsylvania; the RFMC emphasized the traditional Methodist doctrine of plain dress. The Emmanuel Association, belonging to the subgroup of \"Holiness Pacifists\" in the conservative holiness movement, is known for its opposition to warfare and its holiness standards are codified in a manual known as \"Principles of Holy Living\". \n\nBy the post-World War II era, a more relaxed societal attitude toward morality and theological differences continued to accompany many mainstream Holiness conferences, districts and local churches reinforcing longstanding prohibitions on behavior in their governing documents. Not at home with other Fundamentalist alliances (which had a more Calvinistic and non-Holiness tone to them), an Interdenominational Holiness Convention (IHC) was called at a Wesleyan Methodist campground in Fairmont, Indiana, in 1951. Entire sanctification (in Methodism) or Perfectionism (in Quakerism), as well as traditional holiness strictures on dress and entertainment, held a prominent place in convention sermons. The swelling divorce rate, the relentless spread of Communism (with its promotion of state atheism), and the effects of television on society were also prominent themes. Participants resisted a call to form a new denomination, but became an ally toward a series of prior and future institutional secessions.\n\nIn 1955 the Bible Missionary Church (BMC) was formed in Idaho and soon grew nationwide as local congregations left the Church of the Nazarene over \"worldliness\" issues.\n\nIn 1963, another schism in the Free Methodist Church led to the formation of the Evangelical Wesleyan Church (EWC).\n\nIn 1963, the Pilgrim Holiness Church of New York seceded from the Pilgrim Holiness Church to become an independent organization (in 1966–68, the Wesleyan Methodist Church and the Pilgrim Holiness Church proposed a merger to form the Wesleyan Church, which has more in common with the Evangelical Holiness movement churches such as the Nazarene Church).\n\nIn the wake of the Wesleyan Church merger, the Bible Methodist Connection of Churches, the Allegheny Wesleyan Methodist Connection of Churches, the Bible Methodist Connection of Tennessee (Tennessee Bible Methodists), the Bible Methodist Connection of Alabama (Alabama Bible Methodists), Bible Methodist Connection Mid-America (formed in 2018), Bible Covenant Church, Pilgrim Holiness Church (Midwest Conference), International Conservative Holiness Association, Pilgrim Nazarene, Wesleyan Nazarene, Emmanuel Missionary Church, Bible Holiness Church, and Wesleyan Holiness Association were organized.\n\nAs of August 2019 the Pilgrim Nazarene Church (PNC) voted to join the Bible Methodist Connection. While not all the churches took part in the merger it is estimated that approximately two-thirds of the PNC churches left to join the Bible Methodist Connection.\n\nThe Brethren in Christ Church, a River Brethren denomination that emerged out of Radical Pietism, entered into a schism in 1963 resulting in the formation of the Calvary Holiness Church, a conservative holiness denomination which continues to emphasize traditional River Brethren beliefs, such as the wearing of a headcovering by women, plain dress, temperance, footwashing, and pacifism.\n\nOther constituent bodies include: Church of God (Holiness); the Central Yearly Meeting of Friends that emerged among Quakers emphasizing George Fox's doctrine of perfectionism; and God's Missionary Church, formed by individuals affected by local revival meetings.\n\nSocial change constantly confronts Conservative Holiness Christians. The Church of God (Holiness) in 1999 removed a ban on owning televisions, urging charity over “the ownership or use of television, videos, movies, the internet, and such like.” Other denominations in the conservative holiness movement, such as the Evangelical Wesleyan Church, continue to forbid the watching of television.\n\nDenominations and associations of churches aligned with the conservative holiness movement include:\n\n\nColleges and schools affiliated with the conservative holiness movement include:\n\n\nA number of mission endeavors exist within the conservative holiness movement with active mission fields in the Philippines, South Africa, Ukraine, Haiti, Peru, Mexico, Asia, Eastern Europe, India, Myanmar, and South Korea. Listed below are a few of the mission organizations affiliated with the conservative holiness movement. Most of the denominations listed above also maintain their own missions boards and departments for both Home and Foreign Missions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082079", "title": "Dope (band)", "text": "Dope (band)\n\nDope is an American heavy metal band from New York City, New York formed in 1997.\n\nThe band has released six full-length studio albums with their most recent studio album, \"Blood Money Part 1\", being released on October 28, 2016. The lineup currently consists of founding member and lead singer Edsel Dope, guitarist Virus, bassist Acey Slade, and drummer Daniel Fox.\n\nThe band was founded in 1997 by songwriter and lead vocalist Edsel Dope. As a child, Edsel and his brother Simon Dope were separated when their parents divorced. When the two were adults, they reunited and Simon joined Edsel's band, playing keyboards, samples and percussion. The pair then recruited Tripp Eisen as guitarist, Preston Nash as drummer, and Acey Slade as bassist.\n\nUnlike many of the popular bands from the 1990s, Dope derived their sound from influences taken from heavy metal bands and fused that with the sound of industrial rock acts who had made waves earlier in the decade, such as Ministry and Skinny Puppy.\n\nIn their earliest days, the band sold drugs to survive and purchase instruments. Furthermore, the band name \"Dope\" refers to heroin, which was the common substance Edsel and Simon pushed around the NYC area as shown by their early T-shirt designs, which prominently displayed hypodermic needles.\n\nThe band also had some early connections with fellow rockers Marilyn Manson; ex drummer Ginger Fish shared an apartment with Edsel Dope in Las Vegas during the earlier 1990s, before either of them were in their respective bands. Also, guitarist Zim Zum allowed the band to claim that they were \"currently being produced by Zim Zum\" on the cover of their promotional discs to help them gain a record deal. It was originally planned that Zum would produce their debut. However, he was busy recording the album \"Mechanical Animals\" at the time. Lead singer Edsel has also maintained a good friendship with ex-Manson guitarist Daisy Berkowitz.\n\n\"Felons and Revolutionaries\" was created after performing on the New York City club circuit, and releasing several promotional cassettes the band was signed by Epic Records. For the album's recording, Sloane Jentry had left the band and Tripp Eisen moved to guitar, while Acey Slade was brought in on bass. The album featured fourteen tracks including two covers, which were; \"Fuck tha Police\" by N.W.A and \"You Spin Me Round (Like a Record)\" by English new wave band Dead or Alive, which featured in the movie \"American Psycho\". \"Debonaire\" was also featured on the \"Scream 3\" movie soundtrack and the first \"The Fast and the Furious\" movie during the police raid on Johnny Tran's house scene.\n\nDope toured extensively, taking part in several national tours with various acts ranging from Alice Cooper to Kid Rock. This helped \"Felons and Revolutionaries\" SoundScan more than 250,000 units in total.\n\nA live video for the song \"Sick\" was recorded to capture the energy of the group's live show. The first single and non-live promotional video released by the band from the album was \"Everything Sucks\", which failed to chart. The second single, a cover of \"You Spin Me Round\", saw the band gaining more attention; it received radio play and reached No. 37 on the US Mainstream Rock charts.\n\nAfter the relative success of their debut album, Dope decided to record a follow up entitled \"Life\". Several band changes had taken place once more; Tripp Eisen was fired from the group and joined industrial metal band Static-X, so Virus, a guitarist/producer from New York City who was originally hired for bass, replaced him on guitar in 2000. Acey Slade was moved to the position of guitar, while Sloane Jentry (who had remained friends with the band) rejoined, this time on bass. On drums, Preston Nash was replaced by Racci \"Sketchy\" Shay.\n\nThe two singles from Life; \"Now or Never\" and \"Slipping Away\" reached No. 28 and No. 29 on the Mainstream Rock charts respectively. The album itself reached No. 180 on the Billboard charts and No. 6 on the Top Heatseekers, which up until that point was the band's highest charting. After the album's release, Simon Dope left the group to pursue a career as a video game producer.\n\n\"Debonaire\" from the first album was used in the movie \"The Fast and the Furious\". More soundtrack work was done by Dope in 2002, as the band recorded WWE chairman Vince McMahon's theme song \"No Chance (In Hell)\" for the \"WWF Forceable Entry\" audio release. Dope's music had previously been used as the background theme in ECW, and Rhino also used \"Debonaire\" as his entrance theme.\n\nAround this period, Edsel Dope also had a public rivalry with the band Murderdolls, particularly vocalist Wednesday 13. An early version of that group had featured Racci Shay on drums; and under the name Murderdolls, it featured Tripp Eisen. Dope guitarist Acey Slade then left the band to join Murderdolls in mid-2002.\n\nDisappointed with the label's perceived lack of promotion for the album, the band left Epic and joined Artemis Records, a New York independent record label.\n\nDope's third studio album was titled \"Group Therapy\". A song from that album, \"Today is the Day\" served as the official theme song for WWE's pay-per-view event No Mercy 2003 in October.\n\nBy 2005, Dope had regrouped once more, the band had a new bassist, Brian \"Brix\" Milner (former guitarist and keyboardist for Orlando's Skrape). For their new album entitled \"American Apathy\", the band returned to a harder sound similar in some respects to their debut, in an industrial metal style.\n\nAlthough released eight years after the band formed, four albums in and on an independent label, American Apathy performed well in the charts. It was a No. 1 hit on the Top Heatseekers chart, for the first time in the band's history and it also saw the band's highest charting on the Billboard chart to date.\n\nBen Graves of the Murderdolls joined Dope as the live drummer on a tour of Japan. In 2006 Dope bassist Brix Milner played in Murderdolls front man Wednesday 13's solo band, replacing the injured Kid Kid.\n\nEdsel Dope and Virus became involved in an alternative pop/rock side-project called Makeshift Romeo.\n\n\"No Regrets\" is the band's fifth studio album. The album was released on March 10, 2009. The album debuted at No. 88 with 6,200 copies sold in its first week, making it the highest-charted album in the band's history. This CD is different from past releases in that the name of the CD is repeated in many of the songs, including \"Dirty World,\" \"My Funeral,\" \"We Are,\" and the CD's title track. \"Addiction\" is the third single from the album. The song features a guitar solo by the guest musician Zakk Wylde.\n\nDope has finished their spring tour of the United States, the tour, which took place over two months, included 22 dates. Tripp Lee played live on bass with the band (although Brix is still listed, and seems doubtful that he will return) and a new drummer named Angel Bartolotta, formerly of Pig and The Genitorturers has joined.\n\nIt was announced on October 15, 2008 that the first single from \"No Regrets\" is called \"Violence\". The song is currently available to listen on the band's MySpace. There will be a music video, for \"Violence\", according to the image the band set for album art. One of the tracks for the album was released in late 2007 in the game, \"\". \"Guitar Hero III\" includes a song by Dope called \"Nothing for Me Here\" on the bonus list and mentions that it will be on the band's upcoming album.\n\nSome time in early 2009, Dope updated their official website, which now features promotion for \"No Regrets\", which was released on March 10, 2009. Previews of eight tracks from the new album can be heard via the music player on the site. In addition to this, the full music video for the single Addiction, which features Zakk Wylde of Black Label Society and well-known guitarist for Ozzy Osbourne is available to be viewed on the site. One of the tracks on the new album is a cover of the Billy Idol single, \"Rebel Yell\".\n\nOn July 29, 2008, Dope released \"American Apathy Reloaded\"—a CD of remixes and alternate versions of songs from \"American Apathy\", plus a live DVD.\n\nDope has released a video to go along with the second single on the album, \"6-6-Sick\".\n\nThe song \"Nothing for Me Here\" is featured in the video game as a bonus track, therefore making the song's original release date in 2007, 2 years before No Regrets was released.\n\nVirus, the lead guitarist, teaches guitar/bass at the Paul Green School of Rock, in Fort Washington, PA.\n\nVirus also produces up-and-coming bands and writes music for TV and video game companies such as Activision, Disney and ESPN.\n\nIn 2011, Dope performed at the Gathering of the Juggalos.\n\nOn August 12, 2011, Dope played at Mojoes in Joliet, IL. Here, Edsel announced that Dope has been working on a new album.\n\nIn 2012, Virus joined David Draiman's band Device.\n\nOn the September 19, 2013, the band officially released a teaser for the song \"Drug Music\" from their upcoming sixth studio album, entitled \"Blood Money\" via their Facebook page. The album was originally set to be released in March 2014. However, in an interview with Dee J. Nelson, it was said that the release will take place in the summer. The music video for the album's first single \"Selfish\" was released on August 26, 2014 as frontman Edsel Dope announced that Blood Money will be a two-part album. In 2015, Dope announced the dates for the \"Die Mother Fucker Die\" reunion tour, featuring the classic lineup of Edsel Dope, Virus, Acey Slade, and Racci Shay. Dope also recorded their very first live album in Moscow which featured the four long time friends and bandmates. Dope's live album, titled \"Live In Moscow\", was released in 2016 summer via a fan-funded process through their website where all those who pre-ordered the live album and/or contributed to the fundraiser would have their name listed in the album's liner notes and would subsequently make the website's virtual thermometer grow as fans shopped around the website. The Thermometer would display the overall progress in reaching various fundraiser goals such as the release of the live DVD and making it to United Kingdom and Europe for a tour.\n\nAfter the release of their first live album, the band announced that they will be releasing their long-awaited album \"Blood Money, Part 1\" in the autumn of 2016, also stating that the second part of \"Blood Money\" would not see such lengthy delays as Part 1 did.\n\nDope released the official music video for the two-part album's title track \"Blood Money\" on July 16, 2016. The band released the second single on the album entitled \"Hold On\" on August 26, 2016, as well as the official music video. Blood Money part 1 was officially released worldwide on October 28, 2016 via eOne Entertainment.\n\nAfter the release of \"Blood Money, Part 1,\" Dope went to tour Russia and the United Kingdom as the headlining act as well as having toured with the classic lineup featured in the \"Die Mother Fucker Die Reunion\" tour. This reunion tour had guitarist Virus, drummer Racci Shay, and bassist Acey Slade return for the occasion.\n\nIn the beginning of 2017, Dope released tour dates for Spring 2017, touring with co-headliner Combichrist and supporting acts September Mourning and Davey Suicide. They also released more tour dates for Fall 2017, this time touring with Hed PE.\n\nIn 2019, Dope toured with Static-X, DevilDriver, Wednesday 13, and Raven Black in the US. Around the EU, Dope are to tour with Static-X, Soil and Wednesday 13\n\nDope have been described as alternative metal, speed metal, nu metal, and industrial metal. Dope's influences include Ministry, Nine Inch Nails, Kiss, Guns N' Roses, White Zombie, and Mötley Crüe. Dope's lyrics are known for being obscene and aggressive. In a review of Dope's album \"Felons and Revolutionaries\", NME said \"In \"American Pie\", a boy puts his cock in an apple pie, to let us know that there's something rotten at the heart of the American Dream. Ex-con brothers Edsel and Simon Dope, though, would probably put someone else's cock in the apple pie, cut it off, lace the pie with strychnine, and serve it up at the Clinton dinner table.\"\n\nCurrent\n\nGuitarists\nBassists\nDrummers\nKeyboardists\n\nTimeline\n\n"}
{"id": "2082085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082085", "title": "Osman Ertuğ", "text": "Osman Ertuğ\n\nMr. Osman Ertuğ (born 1949) served as the \"de facto\" ambassador of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC) to the United States of America from 2002 to 2007, when he was succeeded by Hilmi Akil. As the TRNC is not recognized as sovereign, his title was officially that of \"Representative of the Turkish Cypriot Community in Washington DC\".\n\nMr. Ertuğ served as the Representative of the TRNC in New York (\"de facto\" Chief of Mission to the United Nations) before taking up his Washington DC posting. He is regarded by the TRNC Foreign Ministry as a very capable diplomat.\n\nMr. Ertuğ is one of the framers of the TRNC's Unilateral Declaration of Independence.\n"}
{"id": "2082089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082089", "title": "Trixie (film)", "text": "Trixie (film)\n\nTrixie is a 2000 American mystery-crime film directed by Alan Rudolph and starring Emily Watson, Nick Nolte, Will Patton and Brittany Murphy.\n\nTrixie Zurbo is an eccentric woman who longs to quit her job as a security guard in a department store and become a private detective. She finally gets her wish when she takes a job in security at a casino. She accidentally becomes involved in a murderous plot and Trixie takes her first case; however, her unschooled command of the English language and comedy intervenes and the mess begins.\n\nThe film premiered on June 28, 2000 in New York City and Los Angeles, California.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 28%, based on 50 reviews, and an average rating of 4.1/10. The website's critical consensus states \"Boring and predictable script; not funny.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 26 out of 100, based on 28 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2082097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082097", "title": "Eater (band)", "text": "Eater (band)\n\nEater were an early British punk rock band from North London who took their name from a Marc Bolan lyric.\n\nIn October 2001, the band’s second single, \"Thinking of the USA\" (originally released in June 1977), was included in \"Mojo\" magazine's list of the best punk rock singles of all time. In 1999, the track also appeared on the five-CD Universal Records box set \"1-2-3-4 Punk & New Wave 1976-1979\".\n\nTheir sound has been characterized as \"run-of-the-mill dole queue punk rock\" and \"basic boy-ish punk rock\".\n\nThe band was formed in 1976 by four high school friends from Finchley, North London: Anglo-Egyptian singer and guitarist Andy Blade (real name: Ashruf Radwan), guitarist Brian Chevette (real name: Brian Haddock) and Blade's brother, drummer Social Demise (real name: Lutfi Radwan).\n\nThe band's name came from a line in the 1970 T. Rex song \"Suneye\"; Eater later recorded a cover version of T-Rex's \"Jeepster.\"\n\nEater were known for being one of the youngest bands, if not the youngest band, in the punk scene. They were 14–17 years old when they formed the group. \"They were basically young kids, striving to master their instruments and out to shock\", according to \"Up Yours! A Guide to UK Punk, New Wave & Early Post Punk\".\n\nDespite originating in London, the band made its first public performance on 20 September 1976 at Manchester's Holdsworth Hall, featuring Buzzcocks as their support act. The band did not yet have a permanent bassist and rented a local musician for the show. Lutfi Radwan was soon replaced by drummer Dee Generate (real name: Roger Bullen), and by November 1976, they had recruited bassist Ian Woodcock in time to play their first London gig.\n\nEater became one of the pioneering punk bands that played live in the first few months of the now-legendary Roxy Club. They topped the bill twice in January 1977; the second time they were supported by the Damned. They headlined again in February, this time supported by Johnny Moped, and twice more in March, supported first by the Lurkers and then by Sham 69. They also supplied two of their tracks, \"15\" (a version of \"I'm Eighteen\" by Alice Cooper) and \"Don't Need It\", to the seminal live compilation album \"The Roxy London WC2\", released on 24 June 1977 by Harvest Records. Extracts from their performances at The Roxy were also included in Don Letts' \"Punk Rock Movie\" (1978).\n\nThe band signed to a small London independent label called The Label, which released three initial singles produced by Dave Goodman: \"Outside View\" (1 March 1977), \"Thinkin' of the USA\" (June 1977) and \"Lock It Up\" (October 1977). The latter featured new drummer Phil Rowland, who had replaced Generate in May 1977.\n\nTheir sole full-length studio album, simply titled \"The Album\", was released on 11 November 1977. Again produced by Goodman, it included sped-up versions of songs by David Bowie (\"Queen Bitch\") and the Velvet Underground (\"Sweet Jane\" and \"Waiting for the Man\"). \"All songs on their sole full-length release sound about the same, played with one stiff light-speed beat and a snotty vehemence to each track, adding up to a ridiculous classic\", said AllMusic critic Fred Beldin in a retrospective review, adding, \"As fast and clumsy as the material is, there's an undeniable tunefulness at work, particularly in irresistible singalongs like 'No Brains' and 'Room for One', and the sprightly single 'Lock It Up' even attempts some naïve vocal harmonies as they sneer at the upper classes\".\n\nThe Label issued the four-song live EP \"Get Your Yo-Yo's Out\", recorded at Dingwalls, on 2 June 1978. Gary Steadman replaced Chevette for their final single, \"What She Wants She Needs\", produced by Martin Hayles and Gwyn Mathias and released in December 1978. The band split up in January 1979.\n\nWoodcock joined the Vibrators in July 1979, appearing on their 1980 single \"Gimme Some Lovin'\".\n\nRowland joined Slaughter & the Dogs, appearing on their 1979 single \"You're Ready Now\", and later played with the London Cowboys.\n\nSteadman joined Classix Nouveaux in 1979, playing on their 1981 debut \"Night People\".\n\nBlade made several attempts to create a solo career during the 1980s, but failed to secure a deal. In 2005, he published a book about his times with Eater and beyond, called \"The Secret Life of a Teenage Punk Rocker: The Andy Blade Chronicles\" (Cherry Red Books).\n\nEater reformed to play the first Holidays in the Sun festival, held in 1996 in Blackpool., and recorded two new songs in 1997 (\"Going Down\" and \"Vegetable Girl\") for a projected single that was never released. Both tracks later appeared on \"The Eater Chronicles 1976-2003\" compilation, released in 2003 by Anagram Records.\nThey played another reunion show on 14 May 1999 at the Brighton Centre, supporting Fugazi.\n\nEater reformed again in 2006, playing a one-off gig at the 100 Club on 28 September, supported by T. V. Smith of the Adverts, and supporting Buzzcocks on 2 December (the 30th anniversary of their original tour) at The Forum.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082102", "title": "TLR3", "text": "TLR3\n\nToll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) also known as CD283 (cluster of differentiation 283) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the \"TLR3\" gene. TLR3 is a member of the toll-like receptor family of pattern recognition receptors of the innate immune system.\n\nTLR3 is a member of the toll-like receptor (TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans and share structural and functional similarities. They recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that are expressed on infectious agents, and mediate the production of cytokines necessary for the development of effective immunity. The various TLRs exhibit different patterns of expression. This receptor is most abundantly expressed in placenta and pancreas, and is restricted to the dendritic subpopulation of the leukocytes. It recognizes dsRNA associated with viral infection, and induces the activation of IRF3 and NF-κB. Unlike other TLRs, TLR3 uses TRIF as the sole adaptor. IRF3 ultimately induces the production of type I interferons. It may thus play a role in host defense against viruses.\n\nTLR3 recognizes double-stranded RNA, a form of genetic information carried by some viruses such as reoviruses. Additionally, an ephemeral form of double-stranded RNA exists as a replicative intermediate during virus replication. Upon recognition, TLR 3 induces the activation of IRF3 to increase production of type I interferons which signal other cells to increase their antiviral defenses. Double-stranded RNA is also recognised by the cytoplasmic receptors RIG-I and MDA-5.\n\nTLR3 displays a protective role in mouse models of atherosclerosis, and activation of TLR3 signaling is associated with ischemic preconditioning-induced protection against brain ischemia and attenuation of reactive astrogliosis. Furthermore, TLR3 activation has been shown to promote hair follicle regeneration in skin wound healing. In addition, TLR3 activators show effects on human vascular cells.\n\nThe structure of TLR3 was reported in June 2005 by researchers at The Scripps Research Institute. TLR3 forms a large horseshoe shape that contacts with a neighboring horseshoe, forming a \"dimer\" of two horseshoes. Much of the TLR3 protein surface is covered with sugar molecules, making it a glycoprotein, but on one face (including the proposed interface between the two horseshoes), there is a large sugar-free surface. This surface also contains two distinct patches rich in positively charged amino acids, which may be a binding site for negatively charged double-stranded RNA.\n\nDespite being a glycoprotein, TLR3 crystallises readily – a prerequisite for structural analysis by x-ray crystallography.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082108", "title": "Castinus", "text": "Castinus\n\nFlavius Castinus held the position of \"patricius\" in the court of Roman Emperor Honorius at the time of the Emperor's death, and most likely for some time before. He also served as consul for the year 424.\n\nIn 422 he fought an unsuccessful campaign in Hispania to subdue the Vandals. He was sent to support the Suevi or Suebians, enemies of the Vandals, and came with a force of Gothic foederati. However, the campaign was compromised at the very beginning when, according to one source, \"his haughty and inept exercise of command\" led to a quarrel between him and the military tribune Bonifacius, a protégé of Empress Galla Placidia. Bonifacius abruptly left the expedition, eventually arriving in Africa, where he began to build up a power base. Castinus continued on to Hispania, where at first he had considerable success against the Vandals in Baetica, managing to put them under a blockade and coming close to forcing them to surrender. Unfortunately at this point the Gothic auxiliaries betrayed him in some unspecified manner, which led to his defeat at the Battle of Tarraco; Castinus was forced to fall back to Tarraco (Tarragona).\n\nThe sudden death of the nonentity Emperor Honorius 15 August 423, which followed the death of the more active Constantius III (421) and the exile of Empress Galla Placidia to Constantinople (Spring 423), created a power vacuum \"if it can be so described\", observes John Matthews, which \"was filled, as we should expect, by usurpation.\" The Eastern Emperor Theodosius II hesitated to nominate a new emperor of the West; Stewart Oost points out that with Honorius' death, \"technically and legally he became sole ruler of the whole Roman Empire\". Oost also argues that Theodosius reached an agreement with Castinus, where Castinus would act as his vice-regent in the West and in return Theodosius appointed Castinus and the Easterner Victor consuls for 424. If such an agreement was made, Castinus broke it when he joined in declaring Joannes, the senior civil servant, as the new Western Emperor in late 423.\n\nJoannes was an insecure emperor. The Emperor Theodosius invested his young cousin Valentinian III with the honor of Caesar the next year, then dispatched an army against Joannes. The usurper was captured and executed in June/July 425. Castinus's role in these events is unknown; Oost notes of his \"acts during the usurper's reign we hear absolutely nothing.\" Matthews succinctly states that Castinus was sent into exile; while agreeing with Matthews, Oost adds that a \"doubtful source says that he found refuge in the Christian magnanimity of another old foe, Count Boniface of Africa.\"\n"}
{"id": "2082112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082112", "title": "Michigan Wolverines swimming and diving", "text": "Michigan Wolverines swimming and diving\n\nThe Michigan Wolverines swimming and diving program has both a men's and women's team. The University of Michigan swimming program is one of the most highly respected college swimming programs in the country. The men's and women's teams, which had been coached separately, were combined in August 2012 by the University of Michigan Athletic Department under the leadership of head coach Mike Bottom.\n\nThe University of Michigan Men's Swimming and Diving team has a rich tradition of producing quality swimmers and being one of the nation's top programs. Men's swimming and diving has been a varsity sport at Michigan since 1921. With 19 total national championships—12 NCAA championships and seven unofficial national championships— including the 2013 NCAA championship, the Michigan men's swimming and diving team has won more national championships than any other varsity sport in the history of the university. In addition, Michigan holds 38 Big Ten Titles in its history with its most recent title coming in the 2013-14 season. The team has won more Big Ten titles than any other program. Michigan has enjoyed great success as of late, finishing as a top-10 team in the NCAA's nine out of the last ten seasons, with its best finish coming in the 2012-13 season, in which they won the national championship. Michigan's total of 19 National Championships in Swimming and Diving is the most of any team in history.\n\nThe University of Michigan Men's Swimming program began in 1921 and has had nine coaches in its history. The current coach is Mike Bottom, who became head coach after the departure of Bob Bowman in 2008. In five years at Michigan, Bottom has compiled dual-meet record of 40-3-1 (25-1 against Big Ten opponents) while winning four Big Ten Championships (2009, 2011-13) and an NCAA Championship (2013). He is a three-time Big Ten Swimming Coach of the Year (2011-13) and was the 2013 CSCAA Swimming Coach of the Year.\n\nThe coaching history is as follows:\n\nThere are many notable alumni that have come from the University of Michigan Swimming program. These include many Olympians and NCAA Champions.\n\n\nThe University of Michigan Women's Swimming program has been a varsity sport since 1974. The current coach is Mike Bottom, who took over in August 2012, when the men's and women's teams were combined. He took over the post from head coach Jim Richardson who had been head coach of the Women's swim team for 27 years. Richardson announced his retirement on May 16, 2012. His teams won 12 consecutive Big Ten Conference titles from 1987 to 1998.\n\nThe coaching history is as follows:\n\nJohanna High (1975)\n\nStu Isaac (1976-1983)\n\nPeter Lindsay (1984-1985)\n\nJim Richardson (1986–2012)\n\nMike Bottom (2012-present)\n\n\nMichigan's rich history in swimming and diving is evidenced by the 18 former student-athletes and coaches enshrined in the International Swimming Hall of Fame, located in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. Individuals may be inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame as a swimmer, diver, water polo player, synchronized swimmer, coach or contributor. Criteria for selection into the Hall of Fame include achievements at the Olympic, World Championship and national levels, as well as world records held. Athletes must be retired from competition a minimum of four years, or at least one Olympic quadrennial. Individuals who are neither competitors nor coaches may be elected as a \"contributor\" whose achievements and innovations have had a profound effect on swimming and/or its administration.\n\n\nThe USA club swimming team that is affiliated with University team is Club Wolverine. The college swimmers train with the Club Wolverine Elite Team during the summer, but Club Wolverine is a very diverse organization that goes beyond its affiliation with the university. Club Wolverine is a parent run swim team for swimmers of all ages and abilities. It is routinely ranked the #1 club in Michigan and one of the top clubs in the U.S. CW's focus is on the long-term development of swimmers from learn-to-swim (Cubs Group) to local, state, national and international competition.\n\nClub Wolverine has always had an impressive squad of professional swimmers including many international superstars in the sport. Most notably, Michael Phelps trained on Club Wolverine for the four years leading up to the 2008 Beijing Olympics.\n\nThe Club Wolverine team in congruence with the University of Michigan Varsity Swimming program runs a week-long stay-away camp in the summer. This camp is intended to be for young, but competitive swimmers that are looking to improve their skills in an environment that provides relatively high intensity. These young swimmers are coached personally on technique, endurance and speed by the Coaching staff of the University's varsity team and by professional and college athletes themselves. Most young swimmers that attend the camps stay in the University dorms. Campers are given opportunities to have fun by playing games, watching movies, and meeting inspiring athletes at the autograph signing and game night.\n\nThe University of Michigan Varsity Diving Team is an integral part of both swimming teams. The diving team has a rich history. Dick Kimball, an alumnus and Olympic diving coach, retired as diving coach in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082122", "title": "Bill DeWitt", "text": "Bill DeWitt\n\nWilliam Orville DeWitt Sr. (August 3, 1902 — March 4, 1982) was an American professional baseball executive and club owner whose career in Major League Baseball (MLB) spanned more than 60 years. His son William Jr. is currently the principal owner and managing partner of the St. Louis Cardinals, while grandson William O. DeWitt III is the Cardinals' president.\n\nThe senior DeWitt held multiple ownership and upper management positions in the major leagues, including general manager and owner of both the St. Louis Browns and Cincinnati Reds, chairman of the board of the Chicago White Sox, and president of the Detroit Tigers.\n\nDeWitt grew up in St. Louis. One of his first jobs, in 1916, was selling soda pop at the St. Louis Browns' home field, Sportsman's Park. He began his formal baseball career with the Cardinals as a protégé of Branch Rickey, who moved from the Browns to the Redbirds late in 1916 and would become a legendary executive and member of the Baseball Hall of Fame. As a young man, DeWitt received a law degree from Washington University in St. Louis and became treasurer of the Cardinals.\n\nBut DeWitt ultimately joined the Browns, the city's underdog American League (AL) team, in November 1936 as minority owner (initially in partnership with majority stockholder Donald Lee Barnes) and general manager.\n\nThe Browns were cash-strapped and struggling to survive as the second-banana team in one of the smallest markets in the big leagues, during The Great Depression. The team had drawn only 80,922 fans during the entire 1935 season.\n\n\"We operated close to the belt. We had to\", DeWitt told author William B. Mead in the 1978 book \"Even the Browns: Baseball During World War II\". \"Once we ran out of cash. Barnes tried to get the board of directors to put up some money. They said, 'No! That's money down the rat hole.' A lot wealthy guys, too ... The Browns had a hell of a time because the Cardinals were so popular and the Browns couldn't do a damned thing. We didn't have any attendance money to build up the ball club with. Most of the clubs had players in the minors that were better than some of the ones we had on the Browns.\"\n\nThe Browns' attendance perked up when they were allowed to play more night home games than other AL teams. Meanwhile, Rickey disciple DeWitt managed to use some of his scant resources to strengthen the Browns' farm system and scouting department, signing and developing Vern Stephens, Al Zarilla, and Jack Kramer—all future major league stars. He also attempted to add depth and unearth hidden talent by trading the Browns' few veteran assets, such as pitcher Bobo Newsom, for second-string players or minor leaguers with other organizations. Still, the team was nearly moved to Los Angeles after the season; however, the American League's secret vote on the transfer was scheduled for the week of December 8, and the attack on Pearl Harbor on Sunday, December 7, plunged the U.S. into World War II and saved the Browns for St. Louis for another dozen seasons.\n\nIn 1944, under DeWitt's leadership as general manager, the Browns captured their only American League pennant. They won only 89 games (losing 65), but outlasted the Detroit Tigers by a single game. They drew as their World Series opponents their formidable tenants at Sportsman's Park, the Cardinals, who had won 105 games to breeze to their third consecutive National League championship. In the all-St. Louis 1944 World Series, the Browns took the opener and Game 3, but then they dropped the final three games to the Redbirds, who were in the process of winning three World Series titles in a five-year span. Nevertheless, DeWitt was named 1944 Major League Executive of the Year by The Sporting News to recognize his achievement.\n\nThe Browns' 1944 pennant is often downplayed by observers because it occurred during the height of the World War II manpower shortage, when most of the top American League players were in military service. But DeWitt's wartime Browns were one of the more successful teams in the American League, also posting winning campaigns in 1942 and 1945. During the latter year, they employed Pete Gray, an outfielder who, despite having only one arm, had become a capable minor league player. However, in 1946, the first postwar season, the Browns fell back into the second division and never enjoyed another winning campaign in St. Louis. DeWitt was forced to sell Stephens, Kramer and Zarilla—along with pitcher Ellis Kinder, a future 20-game-winner—to the wealthy Boston Red Sox to keep the team solvent.\n\nDeWitt and his brother Charlie (1900–1967), the Browns' traveling secretary, bought control of the club from majority owner Richard C. Muckerman in 1948, but the team's struggles on the field and at the box office continued: they averaged 97 losses and an attendance of less than 285,000 a season from 1948–1950. Finally, the DeWitts sold the Browns to Bill Veeck in June 1951. Bill DeWitt remained in the Browns' front office until Veeck was forced to sell the club; it then moved from St. Louis to become the Baltimore Orioles in 1954.\n\nDeWitt then served as assistant general manager of the New York Yankees from 1954–1956 and as administrator of the \"Professional Baseball Fund\" in the office of the Commissioner of Baseball until September 1959, when he became president and \"de facto\" general manager of the Detroit Tigers. \n\nIn his 14 months as the Tigers' president, DeWitt participated in three significant trades with swap-happy Cleveland Indians GM Frank Lane during the 1960 season.\n\n\nDeWitt, however, moved on himself shortly after the end of the 1960 season, replacing Gabe Paul as GM of the Cincinnati Reds. He made a number of deals for players such as Joey Jay (a disappointment with the Milwaukee Braves who became a 20-game winner in Cincinnati), Don Blasingame, and Gene Freese, and the Reds went on to win the 1961 National League (NL) pennant after winning just 67 games in 1960. Owner Powel Crosley Jr. died suddenly before the start of the 1961 season. By year's end, DeWitt would purchase 100 percent ownership of the Reds from the Crosley estate.\n\nThe Reds contended for the first five years of DeWitt's six-season tenure. They fell three games short of repeating in 1962 and one game short of the NL pennant in 1964, a season marred by the terminal illness of their 45-year-old manager, Fred Hutchinson, who was suffering from lung cancer. DeWitt's Reds benefited from a productive farm system, with Jim Maloney, Pete Rose, Tony Pérez, Lee May, and Tommy Helms making their debuts through 1966, and Johnny Bench reaching Triple-A in only his second pro season.\n\nDuring the 1965 campaign, the Reds led the National League in runs scored (825) and run differential (+121), but finished in fourth place, eight games behind the Los Angeles Dodgers, due to an inability to win close games. Sorely in need of mound help, DeWitt controversially traded future Hall of Fame outfielder Frank Robinson to the Orioles for two pitchers and a minor league outfielder; the outrage over the trade made it difficult for one of the pitchers, former Orioles standout Milt Pappas, to adjust to pitching in Cincinnati. The trade later was made famous in the 1988 movie \"Bull Durham\", where Susan Sarandon's character says, \"Bad trades are a part of baseball; I mean who can forget Frank Robinson for Milt Pappas, for God's sake?\") After announcing the trade, DeWitt famously defended the trade by calling Robinson \"not a young 30.\" In his first season with the Orioles, Robinson won the Triple Crown, was unanimously voted the American League Most Valuable Player, and led the Orioles to their first World Series title. Pappas, not yet 27 when the Robinson trade was made, won 28 games in his first two seasons in Cincinnati before being traded to the Atlanta Braves after beginning the 1968 season 2–5. Among the players coming to Cincinnati in that trade would be future bullpen ace Clay Carroll. Another player involved in the Robinson deal was Dick Simpson, a physical specimen and minor league standout who was both fast and powerful, but could not hit major league pitching.\n\nThe Robinson deal somewhat clouded DeWitt's Cincinnati legacy, although many of the players he had signed or developed became key members of the team's \"Big Red Machine\" dynasty of the 1970s. He sold the Reds to a syndicate led by Cincinnati newspaper publisher Francis L. Dale (and including William DeWitt Jr.) in December 1966. One month later, DeWitt was succeeded by Bob Howsam as general manager.\n\nIn 1967, DeWitt's name was briefly linked with an ownership group that unsuccessfully sought an expansion team for Buffalo, New York, as both leagues announced plans to grow from 10 to 12 teams in . DeWitt's last official post in baseball was as chairman and minority owner of the Chicago White Sox from 1975 to 1981, working with the flamboyant Veeck once again.\n\nDeWitt died in Cincinnati, Ohio, of undisclosed causes on March 4, 1982, at age 79.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2082140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082140", "title": "Simon Stock", "text": "Simon Stock\n\nSaint Simon Stock, an Englishman who lived in the 13th century, was an early Prior of the Carmelite religious order. Little is known about his life with any historical certainty. The Blessed Virgin Mary is traditionally said to have appeared to him and given him the Carmelite habit, the Brown Scapular. Thus, popular devotion to Saint Simon Stock is usually associated with devotion to Our Lady of Mount Carmel.\n\nThe Brothers of the Blessed Virgin Mary of Mount Carmel had their origins as a Christian hermit community in Palestine; in the early 13th century the members moved to Europe where they became mendicant friars. Saint Simon was born in England and became an early leader of the Order soon after it migrated to that country.\n\nHistorical evidence about Saint Simon's life comes primarily from medieval catalogues of saints and of Carmelite priors general, which are not consistent with one another in their details. The earliest of these describe Saint Simon as someone known for holiness during his life, and miracles attested to this after his death. He is said to have died in Bordeaux on May 16, though the year is not documented. The surname \"Stock\" appears in some documents but not in others, and is related to a story that the Saint lived for a time in a hollow tree (\"stock\" meant tree trunk) before the arrival of the Carmelites in England, in keeping with prophetic tradition.\n\nHe is believed to have lived at Aylesford in Kent, a place that hosted in 1247 the first general chapter of the Carmelite Order held outside the Holy Land, and where there is still a monastery of Carmelite friars. Saint Simon was probably the fifth or sixth prior general of the Carmelites (historical evidence suggests perhaps from about 1256-1266). During his service, the order spread widely in southern and western Europe, especially in England. Stock is credited with founding houses in the university cities of that era, as in 1248 at Cambridge, in 1253 at Oxford, in 1260 at Paris and Bologna. This action was important for both the growth of the institution and for the training of its younger members.\n\nStock lived an ascetic life. He lived on a diet of herbs, roots and wild apples and drank only water. He died in Bordeaux, France, where he was buried.\n\nThe earliest extant liturgical office in Saint Simon Stock's honour was composed in Bordeaux in France, and dates from 1435. Liturgies are first known to have been celebrated in Ireland and England in 1458, and throughout the Carmelite Order in 1564. His feast day, an optional memorial, is May 16. The Saint's bones are still preserved in a cathedral in Bordeaux; a tibia was brought to England in the 1860s for the Carmelite church in Kensington, a part of the skull was enshrined at Aylesford in 1950. Saint Simon Stock is the patron saint of the English province of Discalced Carmelites.\n\nThe earliest accounts of Saint Simon's life do not mention him having a vision. The first such reference dates from the late 14th century, over 100 years after the July 16, 1251 date when tradition says the vision occurred. It states that \"St. Simon was an Englishman, a man of great holiness and devotion, who always in his prayers asked the Virgin to favour his Order with some singular privilege. The Virgin appeared to him holding the Scapular in her hand. In its original context, the meaning of this promise was that Carmelite religious who persevered in their vocation would be saved. Beginning in the 16th century, the Carmelites began giving the Brown Scapular to lay people who wanted to be affiliated with the Order, and it became increasingly popular as a religious article.\n\nScholarly investigation into historical source documents has raised questions about whether Saint Simon Stock's vision actually happened, or if this tradition about him arose later, perhaps as a means of expressing in the form of a story, the strongly held Carmelite spiritual belief in the favor and protection of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Several other religious orders in the Middle Ages had similar stories of Mary giving their habit or promising protection. The great Carmelite authors of the 14th century do not mention the scapular at all. Challenges to the historicity of the scapular vision (and passionate defenses of it) are not a new phenomenon; a notable challenge came in 1653, from a scholar at the University of Paris, Fr. Jean de Launoy. In response, a Carmelite named Fr. John Cheron published a fragment of a letter which he purported to be an account by Saint Simon Stock's secretary Peter Swanington (or Swanyngton), giving details of the Saint's life, and the scapular vision. This document was also the origin of the date that has become traditional for the vision, July 16, 1251 (July 16 was already in the 17th century the feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel, though that liturgy made no reference to the scapular). Today, scholars affirm that this document was a forgery and Fr. Cheron himself the likely author.\n\nShortly after Vatican II, the historical uncertainties revealed by 20th-century scholars such as Fr. Ludovico Saggi, O.Carm of the \"Institutum Carmelitanum\" in Rome, resulted in the Church briefly striking the feast day of Saint Simon Stock from the Carmelite liturgical calendar. It was restored in 1979 as an optional memorial, on the condition that no mention be made of the scapular vision.\n\nDevotion to the Brown Scapular remains widespread and recommended by the Catholic Church. The Carmelites continue to find meaning in the traditional story and iconography of Saint Simon Stock receiving the scapular, particularly as reflecting their filial relationship with Mary. When Pope John Paul II addressed the Carmelite family in 2001 on the occasion of the 750th anniversary of the bestowal of the Scapular, he said that \"Over time this rich Marian heritage of Carmel has become, through the spread of the Holy Scapular devotion, a treasure for the whole Church. By its simplicity, its anthropological value and its relationship to Mary's role in regard to the Church and humanity, this devotion was so deeply and widely accepted by the People of God that it came to be expressed in the memorial of 16 July on the liturgical calendar of the universal Church,\" the Feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082145", "title": "Lux (video game)", "text": "Lux (video game)\n\nLux is a series of turn-based strategy computer games, inspired by the rule system of the board game \"Risk\" but expanding it to function on any map made up of a graph of countries and the connections between them. \n\"Lux\" was developed and self-published by developer Sillysoft Games. The user community has been active in growing \"Lux\". Users can create maps and computer AIs for \"Lux\", and submit them to be included in the official plugin manager.\n\n\"Lux Delux\" is a \"Risk\"-style clone with generally similar rules to the original. Up to six players can play at once, and any empty spot in the game is filled up by \"bots,\" or computer AI personalities. \"Lux\" has over 900 maps, each varying in size, shape, and complexity. Regardless of the map, the object of the game remains: eliminate all other players so only one remains. Players play for \"Raw,\" which is awarded or taken away based on whether you win or lose games. These games are recorded, and the player with the most raw at the end of the week is awarded a virtual medal. Aside from the weekly medals, players compete for the best seed, the calculation of a player's best weekly ranking. Awards are distributed on a player's rankings page, along with a record of his/her win percentage, games, and more.\n\nLike \"Risk\", winning in \"Lux\" requires both skill and luck, with every attack hanging on the result of a dice roll. However, in spite of the randomness there exists a regular group of players who dominate the multiplayer rankings. Like many online turn-based board games, \"Lux\" includes a chat capability, allowing conversation, tactical discussions, offers of alliance, etc., and some players use this as a political tool in their play to great advantage.\n\nThe ranking system is very competitive, and has evolved into a two-tiered system where each player has a score in the current week, as well as a seeded place depending on the last 16 weeks of play. The online player base is relatively small (about 700 regular online players), but many of them are fairly dedicated.\n\nA much greater number of users play the game off-line with computer AI opponents. The AI players play by the same rules and are subject to the same game-play limitations as human players, that is, they can't cheat. About half of these \"bots\" were programmed by members of the community, and they have evolved to employ sophisticated strategies, such as recognizing players who target them, cooperation, and the imitation of other bots' behavior. Some also respond to text chat, and human responses to them can influence their choice of tactics. The bots sometimes receive respectable rankings for their online play.\n\nThe original maps are numerous and varied, and most of them are made and submitted by players and casual gamers. Some maps are based on historic battles or wars (e.g., there is a map of the Vietnam War), and others are fantasy realms, inspired by other board games (such as \"Monopoluxy,\" or \"Scrabblux\"), or are simply geometric shapes. In addition, the coding allows for one-way connections on a map, meaning a particular \"country\" may be able to attack another, but not the other way around, which allows for unique strategies.\n\nIn addition to specific maps, there are also map generators, which give you a random set of countries and continents as opposed to a set map.\n\nMaps feature what is called a starting scenario. When this option is on, players get a set number of troops and income in a location predetermined by the map's creator.\n\nLux has a small community, with a few hundred players playing online at any given time, and an unknown number playing offline with bots. Currently, this community is moderated by six \"mods,\" and the owner, Dustin. There are very few rules which players have to follow, most of which are along the lines of \"Keep your language appropriate for a friendly board game.\"\n\nSillysoft hosts a \"Lux Delux\" forum, where old and new players can get a jump on special tournaments, and other \"Lux\"-related news. The same moderators who moderate the forums also moderate the online gameplay.\n\nLux hosts several special tournaments throughout the year, many of them annual. Some of these tournaments include \"The Last Ninja\" tournament, the \"Castles Tournament\", the \"Easter Egg Hunt\", and the largest tournament, \"Luxtoberfest\". Luxtoberfest is a month-long festival in October, with different events, special maps, games, and awards on both the forums and the actual game itself.\n\n\"Lux Delux\" was a finalist in the 2005 Independent Games Festival awards contest. The user community has been active in growing \"Lux\". In February 2009 wired.com readers voted \"Lux Touch\" the #1 iPhone game. \"Lux\" currently holds a four and a half out of five star rating on Totaldiplomacy.com Lux got mixed to good reviews, with many praising the community and the huge selection of maps.\n\nSillysoft released two standalone games based on the \"Lux\" game engine in 2006. They both consist of a single-player campaign through a set of historical maps. In the first game, \"American History Lux\", the user is limited to playing the American positions in wars from the French and Indian to the Gulf War. In the second game, \"Ancient Empires Lux\", players can play as any faction in the history of 12 ancient empires from Sumer to the Roman Empire. These games come with some historical information for each level, with links to Wikipedia articles for further information.\n\nIn December 2008, \"Lux\" debuted for the Apple iPhone in the form of \"Lux Touch\" (a free version) and \"Lux DLX\" (paid).\n\nIn December 2014, \"Lux\" debuted for the Android platform in the form of \"Lux DLX\" (a free ad supported).\n\n\"Lux\" was greenlit on Steam in January 2015 and released the following May, after a two-year campaign.\n\nSillysoft's follow-up game \"Lux Alliance\" was also greenlit on Steam and scheduled to release there in June 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082149", "title": "Baron Cobbold", "text": "Baron Cobbold\n\nBaron Cobbold, of Knebworth in the County of Hertford, is a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom. It was created in 1960 for the banker Cameron Cobbold. He was Governor of the Bank of England from 1949 to 1961.\n\nThe second Baron succeeded in 1987. In 1961, he assumed by deed poll the additional surname of Lytton, which was the maiden name of his mother Lady Hermione Lytton, through whom the family inherited Knebworth House. From 2000 he was one of the ninety elected hereditary peers who remained in the House of Lords after the passing of the House of Lords Act 1999, and sat as a cross-bencher until his retirement in 2014.\n\nSeveral other members of the Cobbold family have also gained distinction. The first Baron was the grandson of Nathaniel Fromanteel Cobbold, who was the son of John Cobbold, Member of Parliament for Ipswich, and brother of John Cobbold, Thomas Cobbold and Felix Cobbold, who also sat as Members of Parliament.\n\n\nThe heir apparent is the present holder's son the Hon. Henry Fromanteel Lytton-Cobbold (b. 1962)<br>\nThe heir apparent's heir apparent is his son Edward Lytton-Cobbold (b. 1992)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082151", "title": "GWR 2884 Class", "text": "GWR 2884 Class\n\nThe Great Western Railway (GWR) 2884 Class is a class of 2-8-0 steam locomotive.\nThey were designed for heavy freight work and were a development of the earlier 2800 Class. The 2884s differed from the original engines in a number of respects, the most obvious being that a more modern Collett side window cab was provided and that they were built with outside steam pipes. \n\n83 of the 2884 class were built between 1938 and 1941. Those built during the war did not have the side window to the cab, and the side window on the others was plated over. This was to reduce glare, as a precaution against enemy air attacks. The windows were reinstated after the war.\n\nThe locomotives were so popular with the ex-Great Western crews that the British Railways Western Region operating authorities wanted more of the class built after nationalisation in 1948; however, this request was turned down in favour of BR Standard Class 9Fs.\n\nBetween 1945 and 1947, coal shortages caused GWR to experiment with oil fired 2800 locomotives. Eight of the 2884 class were converted and renumbered from 4850. The experiment, encouraged by the government was abandoned in 1948 once the extra maintenance costs were calculated and the bill had arrived for the imported oil.\nThe year 1948 also saw one of the 2884 class, No.3803 (now preserved), emerge remarkably successfully from the 1948 Locomotive Exchange Trials against more modern engines including the LMS 8F and the WD Austerity 2-8-0 and WD Austerity 2-10-0. It took the appearance in 1954 of the British Railways BR standard class 9F 2-10-0 to displace the 2800s from their main role of mineral haulage. Nevertheless, there was still work for them right up to the end of steam on the Western region in 1965. Six decades of service testify to the fundamental excellence of Churchward's original conception.\n\nNine examples of the 2884, were saved from Woodham Brothers scrapyard in Barry, Vale of Glamorgan, South Wales and four of these engines have operated in preservation.\n\nHornby Railways manufacture a model of the 2884 Class in OO gauge.\nDapol produce a model in N gauge.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082153", "title": "KPDX", "text": "KPDX\n\nKPDX, virtual channel 49 (UHF digital channel 30), is a MyNetworkTV-affiliated television station serving Portland, Oregon, United States that is licensed to Vancouver, Washington. As such, it is the only major commercial station in Portland that is licensed to the Washington side of the market.\n\nKPDX is owned by the Meredith Local Media subsidiary of Des Moines, Iowa-based Meredith Corporation, as part of a duopoly with Portland-licensed Fox affiliate KPTV (channel 12). Although the two stations share studios on NW Greenbrier Parkway in Beaverton and transmitter facilities in the Sylvan-Highlands section of Portland, master control and some internal operations are based at Meredith's West Coast hub facility at the studios of CBS-affiliated sister station KPHO-TV in Phoenix, Arizona.\n\nOn cable, KPDX is available on channel 13 on Comcast Xfinity and other providers in the market. The station's signal is relayed in Central Oregon through translator station KUBN-LD (channel 9) in Bend, making the station available in about two-thirds of the state.\n\nSince February 2018, KPDX has been branded as Fox 12 Plus, an extension of the branding used by KPTV.\n\nIn August 1980, the local KLRK Broadcasting Corporation filed an application to construct a new TV station on channel 49 at Vancouver. The construction permit was granted by the Federal Communications Commission on January 5, 1981, and took the KLRK call letters, representing Clark County. KLRK foresaw an independent station emphasizing sports and news from Washington. However, work came to a halt when KLRK ran out of money to build the facility. In late 1981, Camellia City Telecasters, the owner of KTXL-TV in Sacramento, California, filed to buy the construction permit, an action decried by newly built KECH-TV (channel 22 in Salem) and Cascade Video, applicant for a station on channel 40. Camellia's entry in the Portland market was significant because it bought rights to $10 million of films and syndicated programs, which particularly harmed KECH.\n\nChannel 49 would miss several planned launch dates due to multiple factors, including delays in the shipment of structural steel being used to erect its tower, being shared with KOAP-TV and KOPB-FM despite reluctance from the station, in the West Hills. Camellia also changed the call sign to KPDX, representing Portland's airport code and the company's understanding that the station needed a more regional appeal to succeed Channel 49 finally signed on October 7, 1983. It maintained a main studio in Vancouver and a production facility in Portland. KPDX was a general entertainment independent station; the station's format consisted of cartoons, sitcoms, classic movies, drama series and religious programs.\n\nPortland had been big enough since at least the 1960s to support a second independent station alongside long-established KPTV. However, the Portland market is a very large one geographically; it stretches across a large swath of Oregon as well as much of southwestern Washington. The established stations needed an extensive translator network to reach the entire market, an expense which stymied the first attempt at a second independent in the market, Salem-based KVDO-TV (now Bend Oregon Public Broadcasting outlet KOAB-TV). By the early 1980s, however, cable and satellite—which are all but essential for acceptable television in the rural portions of the market—had gained enough penetration for a second independent to be viable.\n\nAlthough it was well behind KPTV, one of the strongest independent stations in the country, KPDX more than held its own in its early years and received decent ratings.\n\nBy 1988, KPTV was one of several Fox affiliates across the country that were disappointed with the network's weak programming offerings. KPTV subsequently disaffiliated from the network that year and reverted to being an independent station. KPDX assumed the market's Fox affiliation on August 29, 1988. However, until 1993, the station was a \"de facto\" independent station because Fox would have only select days of primetime programming at that time (it would finally have programming on all seven days a week in 1993). The station relocated its studios to a new building located on NE Union Avenue (now Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard) in Portland by 1989, by which point they had rebranded themselves as 'Fox 49'. Columbia River Television sold the station to Cannell Communications, a broadcast group owned by television producer and author Stephen J. Cannell in 1992. Cannell sold both KPDX and sister station WHNS in Greenville, South Carolina to First Media Television in 1994. The station began to add more talk and children's programs in the 1990s. KPDX and WHNS were acquired by Meredith Corporation in 1997. It gradually drew closer to KPTV as Fox came into its own as a network.\n\nMeredith acquired KPTV, by then a UPN affiliate, in 2002 following a station swap with Fox Television Stations—which had acquired the station as part of Chris-Craft/United Television's sale of its stations to Fox—in exchange for WOFL in Orlando, Florida (and its semi-satellite WOGX in Ocala). The KPTV purchase resulted in the creation of the first television station duopoly in the Portland market with KPDX. Since KPTV was still well ahead of KPDX in the ratings, Meredith opted to move the Fox affiliation back to KPTV on September 2, 2002. KPDX took the UPN affiliation from KPTV. However, Fox's Saturday morning children's program lineup remained on KPDX, where it continued to air under the brand 4Kids TV until Fox discontinued children's programming on December 27, 2008. Meredith took advantage of the KPTV acquisition by moving the latter station from its older downtown studios and into the new modern facility built for KPDX in Beaverton.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, the Warner Bros. unit of Time Warner and CBS Corporation announced that the two companies would shut down The WB and UPN and combine the networks' respective programming to create The CW, a new \"fifth\" network that would combine programming from both The WB and UPN. The market's WB station, KWBP (channel 32, now KRCW-TV), was named as The CW's Portland affiliate through a 16-station group agreement with KWBP's owner, the Tribune Company. One month later on February 22, 2006, News Corporation announced the launch of a new \"sixth\" network called MyNetworkTV, which would be operated by Fox Television Stations and its syndication division Twentieth Television. On March 9, 2006, it was announced that KPDX would become a charter affiliate of the new network.\n\nKPDX dropped the UPN branding on April 1, 2006, rebranding from \"UPN 49\" to \"PDX 49\", and adopted a new logo in the process. This change of branding had been planned before UPN's shutdown was announced, but the timing of the change was convenient for the upcoming affiliation switch. KPDX's move mirrored one implemented at future MyNetworkTV station WDCA in Washington, D.C. (which branded as \"DCA 20\") in using the last three letters of its callsign as its station branding. KPDX retained this branding following MyNetworkTV's launch, and is one of the few MyNetworkTV affiliates to not adopt the network's \"blue TV\" logo and/or branding style at any point.\n\nOn September 8, 2008, KPDX moved MyNetworkTV programming from 8–10 p.m. to 9–11 p.m., making it one of five MyNetworkTV stations at the time that did not air the network's programming in its normal 8–10 p.m. timeslot (KEVU-LP in Eugene, KRON-TV in San Francisco, KQCA in Sacramento—which has since moved MyNetworkTV programming back to its normal 8–10 p.m. timeslot—and KMYQ (now KZJO) in Seattle were the others). Concurrent with the schedule change and in anticipation of the station's 25th anniversary, KPDX's on-air brand was modified from \"PDX 49\" to \"PDX TV\".\n\nOn September 8, 2015, Media General announced that it would acquire Meredith for $2.4 billion, with the combined group to be renamed Meredith Media General once the sale was finalized by June 2016. Because Media General already owns CBS affiliate KOIN (channel 6) and Meredith owns KPTV and KPDX, the companies would have been be required to sell either KPTV or KOIN to comply with FCC ownership rules that forbid common ownership of two of the four highest-rated television stations in a given market in total day viewership, as well as recent changes to FCC ownership rules that restrict sharing agreements; KPDX was the only one of the three stations affected by the merger that could legally be acquired by Meredith Media General, as its total day viewership ranks below the top-four ratings threshold. However, on January 27, 2016, Nexstar Broadcasting Group announced that it had reached an agreement to acquire Media General, resulting in the termination of Meredith's acquisition by Media General.\n\nOn February 12, 2018, KPDX branding was changed from PDX-TV to \"Fox 12 Plus\", as an extension of KPTV's \"Fox 12 Oregon\" branding.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\n\nAs of April 2011, satellite provider DirecTV has yet to carry KPDX's high definition feed; it continues to only carry the station's standard definition feed.\nKPDX-TV shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 49, at 9:30 a.m. on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. A half-hour earlier at 9:00 a.m., the station moved its digital signal from its pre-transition UHF channel 48 to channel 30 (UHF channel 30 was previously used by sister station KPTV for its digital signal; that station vacated that allocation concurrently with KPDX's transition), using PSIP to display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 49.\nDuring the 1990s as a Fox affiliate, KPDX ran a half-hour 10 p.m. newscast that was produced by CBS affiliate KOIN through a news share agreement. In 2000, KPDX launched its own in-house news department and began producing a nightly 10 p.m. newscast. Upon KPTV's purchase by Meredith, KPDX's news operation was merged with KPTV's news department (although KPTV's operations were actually moved into KPDX's newer facility, located in Beaverton), and KPDX's existing 10 p.m. newscast was cancelled.\nOn September 8, 2008, KPDX began airing a KPTV-produced 8 p.m. newscast; KPTV's production of the hour-long weeknight newscast makes that station one of only a few Fox stations in the United States that produces a newscast for another station in the same market. On April 19, 2010, KPTV began producing a fifth hour of its weekday morning newscast \"Good Day Oregon\" for KPDX (running from 9 to 10 a.m.) called \"More Good Day Oregon\", which featured various entertainment and lifestyles topics from a seasoned panel of experts; the program was cancelled in 2012 and was replaced by syndicated programming. On September 29, 2014, KPDX expanded its evening news programming with the launch of an hour-long 9:00 p.m. newscast, resulting in KPTV producing three hours of news in primetime (two hours on channel 49, as well as the flagship hour-long 10:00 p.m. broadcast on channel 12); as a result, the station delayed MyNetworkTV programming later in the evening. The 9 p.m. Newscast actually premiered on Monday, August 25, 2014, nearly a month earlier than originally announced.\nKPDX is rebroadcast on the following network of translator stations.\n\nSouth Lane Television combines the KPDX and KPTV signals on their channel 44 translator.\n\nWhen KPDX became a Fox affiliate in 1988, the station's signal was spotty in several areas around Portland. For KPDX to provide better signal coverage in these areas, several translator stations were activated.\n\nMeredith Corporation combines the KPDX and KPTV signals on their channel 19 translator.\n\nThe channel 14 and 18 translators signed on the air on May 1, 1994. The channel 16 translator began in 1992 as an independent low-power television station that was owned by Kenneth J. Seymour, carrying programming from Main Street Television and The Opportunity Channel. Later in 1992, the station was acquired by KPDX, and became a translator of the station. It was shut down in 1999 due to the loss of its transmitter site lease and duplication of signal by channel 14 in Camas; the license was returned to the FCC in 2002. Channel 14 was shut down in 2012.\n\nBy FCC mandate, low-power stations operating on UHF channels 52 to 69 were required to vacate those channels by December 31, 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082160", "title": "Alexander Valley AVA", "text": "Alexander Valley AVA\n\nThe Alexander Valley (Wappo: Unutsawaholmanoma, \"Toyon Bush Berry Place\") is a Californian American Viticultural Area (AVA) just north of Healdsburg in Sonoma County. It is home to many wineries and vineyards, as well as the city of Cloverdale. It is the largest and most fully planted wine region in Sonoma. Highway 101 runs through the valley, and the Russian River flows down the valley, surrounded by vineyards on both sides. From the higher elevations of the valley rim, there is a view as far south as Taylor Mountain and Sonoma Mountain. The region was named for Cyrus Alexander, owner of a part of the Rancho Sotoyome Mexican land grant, in 1847. Granted AVA status in 1984, the boundaries of the appellation are defined in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 27, Section 9.53.\n\nIn its early history, the territory commonly referred to as the \"Alexander Valley\" denoted the benchlands east of the Russian River leading up to the Mayacamas Mountains. The area west of the Russian River was known as “the plaines” or “the ranchos.” Prior to Spanish colonization, Alexander Valley was occupied by the Wappo and Pomo. Viticulture in the area dates back to 1843, when Cyrus Alexander used vine cuttings collected from Fort Ross on the Pacific coast, to establish vineyards in the area. For most of its history the region was predominately associated with mass-produced bulk and jug wines made from indiscriminately planted field blends of red grape varieties. A modern era of quality wine production began in the late 1960s when a new owner of Simi Winery sought to revive the area's long winemaking history. In the 1970s, a new wave of producers, such as Chateau Souverain and Jordan Vineyard & Winery, descended upon the area and started making wines that received critical and consumer acclaim. Wine pioneer, Rodney Strong, whose namesake winery is located in Russian River Valley, was also among the first to recognize Alexander Valley's potential, producing and releasing Sonoma County's first single vineyard Cabernet Sauvignon from the 1974 vintage. The vineyard designated was Strong's Alexander's Crown vineyard located near Jimtown. In 1988, E & J Gallo Winery purchased substantial tracts of land in the Alexander Valley to establish the fine wine brand of the company.\n\nIn 1963, one of Alexander Valley's most prestigious vineyards, the Robert Young Vineyard, was planted. There were few wineries in the area at the time so the vineyard sourced most of it fruit to wineries outside the valley. One of these wineries, Chateau St. Jean, was so impressed with the quality of fruit that with the 1975 vintage of their Chardonnay they put the name of the vineyard on the wine label. This \"vineyard designated wine\" would be one of the first premium wines in California wine history to have the name of the vineyard appear on the label.\n\nLocated in the northeastern section of Sonoma County, the original boundaries of the AVA extend from the banks of the Russian River eastward to the foothills of the Mayacamas Mountains. In 1986 these boundaries were expanded to include overlapping regions of the Russian River AVA. A second expansion occurred in 1990 to cover vineyards owned by Sir Peter Michael and Ellis Alden in the foothills east of Geyserville. In 2001, the area consisting of the Gill Creek watershed was changed from being part of the Dry Creek AVA to a reclassification as part of the Alexander Valley AVA.\n\nThe Alexander Valley covers a broad expanse of land east of the Russian River consisting of the watershed that runs southeast from the Mendocino County line down to the boundaries of the Chalk Hill AVA. The area is sheltered from the influence of the nearby Pacific Oceans by the low-lying hills northeast of Healdsburg. The dominant vineyard soil of the region is alluvial. During the day, the Alexander Valley is one of the warmest areas in Northern California but at night experiences a wide diurnal temperature variation that offers cool climate conditions. The region's proximity to the Russian River serves a source for early morning fog that covers the lower vineyard areas until it burned off by the morning sun.\n\nA characteristic associated with Alexander Valley wines is a rich, fleshy mouthfeel and a degree of voluptuousness due to the area's generally warm climate and ability to sufficiently ripen the grapes. While the wine exhibit a degree of drinkability and accessibility in their youth, they may not have the same aging potential as wines from Napa Valley or even other areas of Sonoma County. The Alexander Valley is capable of growing a wide range of grape varieties but in recent years, the area has been noted for the quality of its Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot. The alluvial soils of the region tend to impart a rich, chocolate note to the Cabernet. Other Alexander Valley varietals that have been gaining recognition include Chardonnay, Nebbiolo and Sangiovese. The Chardonnay from this region is characterized by its rich, tropical fruits. Some experts, such as Jancis Robinson, have speculated that Zinfandel and Sauvignon blanc may eventually prove themselves to be best suited to the climate and soils of the Alexander Valley.\n\nIn the early 21st century, controversy erupted in the Alexander Valley when the Alexander Valley Association of farmers, wineries and property owners objected to a proposed tribal casino to be built on land owned by the Pomo people. In 1998, the association had been able to block a large winery expansion proposed by Kendall-Jackson, but in the dispute with the Pomo casino, federal and state laws granted the tribe the right to develop the land in any way they wished. The casino was built and named River Rock Casino. Resulting traffic problems along Highway 128 following River Rock Casino's 2002 opening have led to public safety concerns during harvest season when the narrow rural roadways must accommodate tractor trailers and grape gondolas. These concerns intensified after River Rock received their liquor license in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082165", "title": "19th century in games", "text": "19th century in games\n\n\"see also:\" 18th century in games, 1900s in games\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082172", "title": "Snallygaster", "text": "Snallygaster\n\nIn American folklore, the snallygaster is a dragon-like beast said to inhabit Central Maryland, the Washington, DC, metro area, and particularly the Middletown area of Frederick County, Maryland.\n\nThe area was settled by German immigrants beginning in the 1730s. Early accounts describe the community being terrorized by a monster called a \"Schneller Geist\", meaning \"quick ghost\" in German. The earliest incarnations mixed the half-bird features of a siren with the nightmarish features of demons and ghouls. The snallygaster was described as half-reptile, half-bird with a metallic beak lined with razor-sharp teeth, occasionally with octopus-like tentacles. It swoops silently from the sky to pick up and carry off its victims. The earliest stories claim that this monster sucked the blood of its victims. Seven-pointed stars, which reputedly kept the snallygaster at bay, can still be seen painted on local barns.\n\nIt has been suggested the legend was resurrected in the 19th century to frighten freed slaves.\n\nNewspaper accounts throughout February and March 1909 describe encounters between local residents and a beast with \"enormous wings, a long pointed bill, claws like steel hooks, and an eye in the center of its forehead.\" It was described as making screeches \"like a locomotive whistle.\" A great deal of publicity surrounded this string of appearances, with the Smithsonian Institution offering a reward for the hide. U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt reportedly considered postponing an African safari to personally hunt the beast. It was later revealed that these reports were part of a hoax perpetrated by \"Middletown Valley Register\" editor George C. Rhoderick and reporter Ralph S. Wolfe in an attempt to increase readership. The descriptions they invented borrowed themes from existing German folklore, including dragon-like creatures who snatched children and livestock, and also appeared to invoke descriptions of the Jersey Devil, which had been spotted mere weeks earlier.\n\nOn June 22, 1953, Whittaker Chambers (whose home lies in Carroll County, Maryland) used the snallygaster to examine U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy in his essay \"Is Academic Freedom in Danger?\" (\"Life\" ): It was a trick of fate in a low comedy mood that Senator McCarthy should first have bounded into public view dragging the unlikely and protesting person of Mr. Lattimore to share with him a historic spotlight so grateful to the one and so acutely unwanted by the other. It was a trick of fate that, in the case of each, has led to some serious confusions. For it led to the translation of Senator McCarthy into the symbol of a national snallygaster (a winged hobgoblin used to frighten naughty children in parts of rural Maryland), instead of one of the two things that he obviously is: an instinctive politician of a kind fairly common in our history, in which case the uproar he inspires is a phenomenon much more arresting than the senator; or a politician of a kind wholly new in our history, in which case he merits the most cautious and coldblooded appraisal.\n\nIn 2008, author Patrick Boytoionnbout the history of the snallygaster entitled \"Snallygaster: the Lost Legend of Frederick County\".\n\nThe Snallygaster appears in the 2018 Bethesda game \"Fallout 76\".\n\nThe Snallygaster is a Blended Whiskey produced by Dragon Distillery of Frederick, MD and released in 2018.\n\nIn 2011, an annual beer festival (a \"beastly beer jamboree\") called \"Snallygaster\" started in Washington, DC.\n\nIn 2012, a hard/punk rock music group called \"The Snallygasters\" formed in the Baltimore, Maryland, area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082174", "title": "I Feel Fine", "text": "I Feel Fine\n\n\"I Feel Fine\" is a song written by John Lennon (credited to Lennon–McCartney) and released in 1964 by the English rock band the Beatles as the A-side of their eighth British single. The song has one of the earliest uses of guitar feedback in popular music.\n\nLennon wrote the guitar riff while in the studio recording \"Eight Days a Week\". \"I wrote 'I Feel Fine' around that riff going on in the background\", he recalled. \"I told them I'd write a song specially for the riff. So they said, 'Yes. You go away and do that', knowing that we'd almost finished the album \"Beatles for Sale\". Anyway, going into the studio one morning, I said to Ringo, 'I've written this song but it's lousy'. But we tried it, complete with riff, and it sounded like an A-side, so we decided to release it just like that.\" Both John Lennon and George Harrison said that the riff was influenced by a riff in \"Watch Your Step\", a 1961 release written and performed by Bobby Parker and covered by the Beatles in concerts during 1961 and 1962. Paul McCartney said the drums on \"I Feel Fine\" were inspired by Ray Charles's 1959 single \"What'd I Say\".\n\nAt the time of the song's recording, the Beatles, having mastered the studio basics, had begun to explore new sources of inspiration in noises previously eliminated as mistakes (such as electronic goofs, twisted tapes, and talkback). \"I Feel Fine\" marks one of the earliest examples of the use of feedback as a recording effect in popular music. Artists such as the Kinks and the Who had already used feedback live, but Lennon remained proud of the fact that the Beatles were perhaps the first group to deliberately put it on vinyl.\n\n\"I Feel Fine\" is written in time with drummer Ringo Starr's R&B-influenced beat (based on the \"Latin\" drumming in Ray Charles's hit \"What'd I Say\") featured through most of the song except for the bridge, which has a more conventional backbeat. After a brief note of heavy feedback (see below), the intro begins with a distinctive arpeggiated riff which starts in D major before quickly progressing to C major and then G major, at which point the vocals begin in G. The melody, unusually, uses a major third and a minor seventh, and has been classified as Mixolydian mode. Just before the coda, Lennon's intro riff (or ostinato) is repeated with a bright sound by George Harrison on electric guitar (a Gretsch Tennessean). The song ends with a fadeout of the G major portion of the opening riff repeated several times.\n\n\"I Feel Fine\" starts with a single, percussive feedback note produced by McCartney plucking the A string on his bass, and Lennon's guitar, which was leaning against McCartney's bass amp, picking up feedback. This was the first use of feedback on a rock record. According to McCartney, \"John had a semi-acoustic Gibson guitar. It had a pickup on it so it could be amplified ... We were just about to walk away to listen to a take when John leaned his guitar against the amp. I can still see him doing it … it went, 'Nnnnnnwahhhhh!' And we went, 'What's that? Voodoo!' 'No, it's feedback.' 'Wow, it's a great sound!' George Martin was there so we said, 'Can we have that on the record?' 'Well, I suppose we could, we could edit it on the front.' It was a found object, an accident caused by leaning the guitar against the amp.\" Although it sounded very much like an electric guitar, Lennon actually played the riff on an acoustic-electric guitar (a Gibson model J-160E), employing the guitar's onboard pickup.\n\nLater, Lennon was very proud of this sonic experimentation. In one of his last interviews, he said: \"I defy anybody to find a record – unless it's some old blues record in 1922 – that uses feedback that way.\"\n\nTwo different promotional films directed by Joe McGrath were filmed on 23 November 1965. Both feature various bits of gym equipment. In the first, George sang into a punch-ball while Ringo pedalled on an exercise bike. The second marked the only time a lunch break was filmed, where they all ate fish and chips while trying to mime to the song. Epstein was adamant that this film could not be used. From then on, the controversial \"fish and chips\" footage was kept in a 2\" videotape box labelled \"I Feel Fried\". The first promotional films was included in the Beatles' 2015 video compilation \"1\", and both films were included in the three-disc versions of the compilation, titled \"1+\".\n\n\"I Feel Fine\" was the first Beatles single to be released almost concurrently in the US and the UK. The single reached the top of the British charts on 12 December 1964, displacing the Rolling Stones' \"Little Red Rooster\", and remained there for five weeks. In Canada, the song also reached number one.\n\nThe song topped the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart for three weeks in late 1964 and early 1965. \"Cash Box\" magazine ranked \"I Feel Fine\" as the 19th biggest US hit of 1965. The B-side was the number-four hit \"She's a Woman\". \"I Feel Fine\" was the sixth single by the Beatles to hit number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in a calendar year (1964), an all-time record. In order, these singles were \"I Want to Hold Your Hand\", \"She Loves You\", \"Can't Buy Me Love\", \"Love Me Do\", \"A Hard Day's Night\" and \"I Feel Fine\". For songwriters Lennon and McCartney, it was the seventh number-one they wrote in the same calendar year, which was another all-time record. The song was the first of six Hot 100 number one chart-toppers in a row (not counting the EP \"4 – by the Beatles\") by one act, also a record at the time. The subsequent singles were \"Eight Days a Week\", \"Ticket to Ride\", \"Help!\", \"Yesterday\" and \"We Can Work It Out\".\n\nBy 2012, \"I Feel Fine\" had sold 1.41 million copies in the UK. As of December 2018, it was the 53rd best-selling single of all time there – one of six Beatles songs included on the top sales rankings published by the UK's Official Charts Company.<ref name=\"Myers/OCC\"></ref>\n\nIn the United States, the song was released on the Capitol album \"Beatles '65.\" The stereo version of the LP presented a duophonic (mock stereo) mix featuring a layer of reverb added by executive Dave Dexter Jr.. The mono version – also released as a single on Capitol – features an exclusive mix with added reverb and a shorter fade as created by Beatles producer George Martin. Both versions were released on CD in 2004 as part of \"The Capitol Albums, Volume 1\" boxed set compilation.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the song was released on the LP format on \"A Collection of Beatles Oldies\". A true stereo version can be found on the \"Past Masters Volume 1\" and \"1\" CDs.\n\nThere is also another stereo version (virtually identical to the standard stereo mix) wherein whispering can be heard at the beginning of the track. This \"whispering version\" appears on the non-US release of \"1962–1966\", as well as on occasional single re-releases.\n\nAn outtake in mono is included in the \"On Air – Live at the BBC Volume 2\" compilation released in 2013.\n\n\n\nThe song's opening riff is sampled [at 1:48] in Sugarloaf's 1975 hit, \"Don't Call Us, We'll Call You.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "2082181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082181", "title": "Office of Ocean Exploration", "text": "Office of Ocean Exploration\n\nIn the United States the Office of Ocean Exploration (OE) (now Office of Ocean Exploration and Research) is a division of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) run under the auspices of the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR).\n\nOE facilitates ocean exploration by supporting expeditions, exploration projects, and related field campaigns. The focus of OE is very broad. They act as early explorers of area of the ocean that have not been seen. The goal is to bring information about the ocean that allows scientists to formulate questions that need to be answered about the ocean based on the preliminary information. In essence, OE acts as a scout or vanguard, much as Lewis and Clark did.\n\nThe mission of OE has four components:\n\n"}
{"id": "2082185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082185", "title": "HMCS Calgary (FFH 335)", "text": "HMCS Calgary (FFH 335)\n\nHMCS \"Calgary\" is a that has served in the Canadian Forces and Royal Canadian Navy since 1995. \"Calgary\" is the sixth vessel in her class and the second vessel to carry the designation . She was built as part of the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project. \"Calgary\" began the FELEX (Frigate Equipment Life Extension) refit in June 2012. She is assigned to Maritime Forces Pacific (MARPAC) and is homeported at CFB Esquimalt. \"Calgary\" serves on MARPAC missions protecting Canada's sovereignty in the Pacific Ocean and enforcing Canadian laws in its territorial sea and Exclusive Economic Zone.\n\nThe \"Halifax\"-class frigate design of which \"Calgary\" belongs, was ordered by the Canadian Forces in 1977 as a replacement for the aging , , , and es of destroyer escorts , which were all tasked with anti-submarine warfare. In July 1983, the federal government approved the budget for the design and construction of the first batch of six new frigates of which \"Calgary\" was a part, out of twelve that were eventually built. To reflect the changing long term strategy of the Navy during the 1980s and 1990s, the \"Halifax\"-class frigates was designed as a general purpose warship with particular focus on anti-submarine capabilities.\n\nAs built, the \"Halifax\"-class vessels displaced and were long overall and between perpendiculars with a beam of and a draught of . That made them slightly larger than the \"Iroquois\"-class destroyers. The vessels are propelled by two shafts with Escher Wyss controllable pitch propellers driven by a CODOG system of two General Electric LM2500 gas turbines, generating and one SEMT Pielstick 20 PA6 V 280 diesel engine, generating .\n\nThis gives the frigates a maximum speed of and a range of at while using their diesel engines. Using their gas turbines, the ships have a range of at . The \"Halifax\" class have a complement of 198 naval personnel of which 17 are officers and 17 aircrew of which 8 are officers.\n\nAs built the \"Halifax\"-class vessels deployed the CH-124 Sea King helicopter, which acted in concert with shipboard sensors to seek out and destroy submarines at long distances from the ships. The ships have a helicopter deck fitted with a \"bear trap\" system allowing the launch and recovery of helicopters in up to sea state 6. The \"Halifax\" class also carries a close-in anti-submarine weapon in the form of the Mark 46 torpedo, launched from twin Mark 32 Mod 9 torpedo tubes in launcher compartments either side of the forward end of the helicopter hangar.\n\nAs built, the anti-shipping role is supported by the RGM-84 Harpoon Block 1C surface-to-surface missile, mounted in two quadruple launch tubes at the main deck level between the funnel and the helicopter hangar. For anti-aircraft self-defence the ships are armed with the Sea Sparrow vertical launch surface-to-air missile in two Mk 48 Mod 0 eight-cell launchers placed to port and starboard of the funnel. The vessels carry 16 missiles. A Raytheon/General Dynamics Phalanx Mark 15 Mod 21 Close-In Weapon System (CIWS) is mounted on top of the helicopter hangar for \"last-ditch\" defence against targets that evade the Sea Sparrow.\n\nAs built, the main gun on the forecastle is a /70 calibre Mark 2 gun from Bofors. The gun is capable of firing shells at a rate of 220 rounds per minute to a range of more than .\n\nAs built, the decoy system comprises two BAE Systems Shield Mark 2 decoy launchers which fire chaff to and infrared rockets to in distraction, confusion and centroid seduction modes. The torpedo decoy is the AN/SLQ-25A Nixie towed acoustic decoy from Argon ST. The ship's radar warning receiver, the CANEWS (Canadian Electronic Warfare System), SLQ-501, and the radar jammer, SLQ-505, were developed by Thorn and Lockheed Martin Canada.\n\nTwo Thales Nederland (formerly Signaal) SPG-503 (STIR 1.8) fire control radars are installed one on the bridge-top and one on a raised platform on the forward end of the helicopter hangar. The ship is also fitted with Raytheon AN/SPS-49(V)5 long-range active air search radar operating in C and D bands, Ericsson HC150 Sea Giraffe medium-range air and surface search radar operating in G and H bands, and a Kelvin Hughes Type 1007 I-band navigation radar. The sonar suite includes the CANTASS Canadian Towed Array and GD-C AN/SQS-510 hull mounted sonar and incorporates an acoustic range prediction system. The sonobuoy processing system is the GD-C AN/UYS-503.\n\nThe \"Halifax\" class underwent a modernization program, known as the Halifax Class Modernization (HCM) program, in order to update the frigates' capabilities in combatting modern smaller, faster and more mobile threats. This involved upgrading the command and control, radar, communications, electronic warfare and armament systems. Further improvements, such as modifying the vessel to accommodate the new Sikorsky CH-148 Cyclone helicopter and satellite links will be done separately from the main FELEX program.\n\nThe FELEX program comprised upgrading the combat systems integration to CMS330. The SPS-49 2D long range air search radar was replaced by the Thales Nederland SMART-S Mk 2 E/F-band 3D surveillance radar, and the two STIR 1.8 fire control radars were replaced by a pair of Saab Ceros 200 fire control radars. A Telephonics IFF Mode 5/S interrogator was installed and the Elisra NS9003A-V2HC ESM system replaced the SLQ-501 CANEWS. An IBM multi-link (Link 11, Link 16 and Link 22 enabled) datalink processing system was installed along with two Raytheon Anschütz Pathfinder Mk II navigation radars. Furthermore, Rheinmetall's Multi-Ammunition Soft kill System (MASS), known as MASS DUERAS was introduced to replace the Plessey Shield decoy system. The existing 57 mm Mk 2 guns were upgraded to the Mk 3 standard and the Harpoon missiles were improved to Block II levels, the Phalanx CIWS was upgraded to Block 1B and the obsolete Sea Sparrow system was replaced by the Evolved Sea Sparrow Missile.\n\n\"Calgary\" was laid down on 15 June 1991 by MIL Davie Shipbuilding at Lauzon and launched on 28 August 1992. She was commissioned into the Canadian Forces on 12 May 1995 and carries the hull classification symbol 335.\n\nOn 10 July 1995, \"Calgary\" was sent to the Persian Gulf as part of the force used to enforce sanctions on Iraq, her mission lasting until December of that year. While en route home, she assisted the sinking bulk carrier \"Mount Olympus\". She rescued all 30 members of the crew, taking them to the freighter \"Rodopi\". \"Calgary\" deployed as part of the NATO blockade of Yugoslavia in the Adriatic Sea.\nIn 1999, while participating in the naval exercise \"Tandem Thrust\", \"Calgary\" suffered the breakdown of one of her diesel generators. The following year the frigate redeployed to the Persian Gulf, once again as part of the group enforcing sanctions against Iraq, replacing sister ship . \"Calgary\" sailed to the Persian Gulf in 2003 as part of Operation Apollo. During her time in theatre, the ship conducted 24 boardings of suspect vessels. \"Calgary\" was the last ship to deploy as part of the operation, which ended with the ship's departure on 1 November 2003.\n\nIn 2008, with the auxiliary vessel and the destroyer , \"Calgary\" sailed to the Horn of Africa to join the Combined Task Force 150. \"Calgary\" spent her time performing maritime interdiction of people and drug smuggling and stopping piracy between Somalia and Yemen. In 2009, \"Calgary\" sailed to the Caribbean Sea to take part in Operation Caribbe, the Canadian drug-interdiction operation.\n\nOn 6 June 2011 \"Calgary\" was turned over to Seaspan Marine Corporation's Victoria Shipyards, to start an 18-month mid-life upgrading and modernization. \"Calgary\" was returned to the Royal Canadian Navy from Victoria Shipyards on 1 June 2012 and as of fall 2013 conducted sea acceptance trials.\n\n\"Calgary\" participated in RIMPAC 2014 in June 2014, the first time that China will participate in the operation. \"Calgary\", accompanied by , and , departed in October 2014 to take part in San Francisco Fleet Week and the Task Group Exercise (TGEX) with the US Navy in American coastal waters.\n\nIn October 2015, \"Calgary\", along with and , participated in the TGEX naval exercise. In June 2016, \"Calgary\", \"Vancouver\", and \"Yellowknife\" sailed from Esquimalt to participate in the RIMPAC naval exercise.\n\nOn 25 February 2018, of fuel was spilled from the ship while \"Calgary\" was sailing in the Georgia Strait between Vancouver Island and the mainland. \"Calgary\" circled back on her path and aircraft searched along the course for an oil sheen. The Western Canadian Marine Response was alerted and the Canadian Coast Guard and Environment Canada were also responded to the situation. The Royal Canadian Navy deployed four of its s and one CP-140A Aurora aircraft to search for signs of oil spill, but found none. Environment Canada believed this was due to inclement weather which prevented the oil from reaching shore and caused it to break up in the ocean. On 30 July, \"Calgary\" departed Esquimalt for a five-month deployment to the Pacific Ocean taking part in naval exercises with Japan, South Korea, New Zealand and Australia. \nThe ship was joined by the Canadian auxiliary ship in the Western Pacific, visiting Da Nang, Vietnam in September. \"Calgary\" was deployed in naval exercises in the South China Sea, East China Sea, visiting Japan and Australia. \"Calgary\" was assigned duties enforcing United Nations resolutions against North Korea. After a year at sea, \"Asterix\" and \"Calgary\" returned to Canada at CFB Esquimalt on 18 December.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082191", "title": "Jolene (album)", "text": "Jolene (album)\n\nJolene is the thirteenth solo studio album by Dolly Parton. It was released on February 4, 1974, by RCA Victor.\nThe title track, \"Jolene\", tells the tale of a housewife confronting a beautiful seductress who she believes is having an affair with her husband. It became Parton's second solo number-one country single; it also was a moderate pop hit for her, and also did well in the United Kingdom. Since downloads were introduced to the Official Chart in 2005, it's amassed 255,300 downloads – and 6.68 million streams. It has been covered by numerous performers.\n\nThe album was released around the time Parton was embarking on a solo career, after having spent seven years as part of Porter Wagoner's weekly TV series and road show, and one of the album's songs, \"I Will Always Love You\", was reportedly written to express the remorse Parton felt over the professional breakup. Released as the album's second single, it also became a number-one country single.\n\n\"Early Morning Breeze\" is a re-recording of a song which previously appeared on 1971's \"Coat of Many Colors\". \"Lonely Coming Down\" had first appeared on Parton's Wagoner tribute album, \"My Favorite Songwriter, Porter Wagoner\", from 1972.\n\nAnother re-issue was released in conjunction with Dolly's 2007 European Tour along with two other older out-of-print albums. This re-issue included additional previously unreleased songs.\n\nIn 2010, Sony Music reissued the 2007 CD \"Jolene\" in a triple-feature CD set with \"Coat of Many Colors\" and \"My Tennessee Mountain Home\" and they have never been out of print.\n\nA positive review of the album by \"Billboard\" said, \"With the title taken from her latest hit single, Dolly goes about recording a whole bunch of others—hits, that is. There are perhaps fire or six here which could stand on their own, including the exceptional ballad, \"Lonely Coming Down\". Most of the writing is her own, as usual, and that's always a plus.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082193", "title": "HMCS Montréal (FFH 336)", "text": "HMCS Montréal (FFH 336)\n\nHMCS \"Montréal\" is a that has served in the Canadian Forces since 1993. \"Montréal\" is the seventh ship in her class which is based on the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project. She is the second vessel to carry the designation . She is assigned to Maritime Forces Atlantic (MARLANT) and is homeported at CFB Halifax. \"Montréal\" serves on MARLANT missions protecting Canada's sovereignty in the Atlantic and Arctic Oceans and enforcing Canadian laws in its territorial sea and Exclusive Economic Zone. The ship has also been deployed on missions throughout the Atlantic and to the Indian Ocean; specifically the Persian Gulf and Arabian Sea on anti-terrorism operations. The vessel has also participated in several NATO missions, patrolling the Atlantic Ocean as part of Standing Naval Force Atlantic (STANAVFORLANT) and its successor Standing NATO Response Force Maritime Group 1 (SNMG1). The vessel is designated as a Bilingual Language Unit in the Royal Canadian Navy.\n\nThe \"Halifax\"-class frigate design, emerging from the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project, was ordered by the Canadian Forces in 1977 as a replacement for the aging , , , and es of destroyer escorts, which were all tasked with anti-submarine warfare. \"Montréal\" was ordered in December 1987 as part of the second batch of frigates. To reflect the changing long term strategy of the Navy during the 1980s and 1990s, the \"Halifax\"-class frigates was designed as a general purpose warship with particular focus on anti-submarine capabilities.\n\nAs built, the \"Halifax\"-class vessels displaced and were long overall and between perpendiculars with a beam of and a draught of . That made them slightly larger than the \"Iroquois\"-class destroyers. The vessels are propelled by two shafts with Escher Wyss controllable pitch propellers driven by a CODOG system of two General Electric LM2500 gas turbines, generating and one SEMT Pielstick 20 PA6 V 280 diesel engine, generating .\n\nThis gives the frigates a maximum speed of and a range of at while using their diesel engines. Using their gas turbines, the ships have a range of at . The \"Halifax\" class have a complement of 198 naval personnel of which 17 are officers and 17 aircrew of which 8 are officers.\n\nAs built the \"Halifax\"-class vessels deployed the CH-124 Sea King helicopter, which acted in concert with shipboard sensors to seek out and destroy submarines at long distances from the ships. The ships have a helicopter deck fitted with a \"bear trap\" system allowing the launch and recovery of helicopters in up to sea state 6. The \"Halifax\" class also carries a close-in anti-submarine weapon in the form of the Mark 46 torpedo, launched from twin Mark 32 Mod 9 torpedo tubes in launcher compartments either side of the forward end of the helicopter hangar.\n\nAs built, the anti-shipping role is supported by the RGM-84 Harpoon Block 1C surface-to-surface missile, mounted in two quadruple launch tubes at the main deck level between the funnel and the helicopter hangar. For anti-aircraft self-defence the ships are armed with the Sea Sparrow vertical launch surface-to-air missile in two Mk 48 Mod 0 eight-cell launchers placed to port and starboard of the funnel. The vessels carry 16 missiles. A Raytheon/General Dynamics Phalanx Mark 15 Mod 21 Close-In Weapon System (CIWS) is mounted on top of the helicopter hangar for \"last-ditch\" defence against targets that evade the Sea Sparrow.\n\nAs built, the main gun on the forecastle is a /70 calibre Mark 2 gun from Bofors. The gun is capable of firing shells at a rate of 220 rounds per minute at a range of more than . The vessels also carry eight machine guns.\n\nAs built, the decoy system comprises Two BAE Systems Shield Mark 2 decoy launchers which fire chaff to and infrared rockets to in distraction, confusion and centroid seduction modes. The torpedo decoy is the AN/SLQ-25A Nixie towed acoustic decoy from Argon ST. The ship's radar warning receiver, the CANEWS (Canadian Electronic Warfare System), SLQ-501, and the radar jammer, SLQ-505, were developed by Thorn and Lockheed Martin Canada.\n\nTwo Thales Nederland (formerly Signaal) SPG-503 (STIR 1.8) fire control radars are installed one on the roof of the bridge and one on the raised radar platform immediately forward of the helicopter hangar. The ship is also fitted with Raytheon AN/SPS-49(V)5 long-range active air search radar operating at C and D bands, Ericsson HC150 Sea Giraffe medium-range air and surface search radar operating at G and H bands, and Kelvin Hughes Type 1007 I-band navigation radar. The sonar suite includes the CANTASS Canadian Towed Array and GD-C AN/SQS-510 hull mounted sonar and incorporates an acoustic range prediction system. The sonobuoy processing system is the GD-C AN/UYS-503.\n\nThe \"Halifax\" class underwent a modernization program, known as the Halifax Class Modernization (HCM) program, in order to update the frigates' capabilities in combatting modern smaller, faster and more mobile threats. This involved upgrading the command and control, radar, communications, electronic warfare and armament systems. Further improvements, such as modifying the vessel to accommodate the new Sikorsky CH-148 Cyclone helicopter and satellite links will be done separately from the main Frigate Equipment Life Extension (FELEX) program.\n\nThe FELEX program comprised upgrading the combat systems integration to CMS330. The SPS-49 2D long range air search radar was replaced by the Thales Nederland SMART-S Mk 2 E/F-band 3D surveillance radar, and the two STIR 1.8 fire control radars were replaced by a pair of Saab Ceros 200 re-control radars. A Telephonics IFF Mode 5/S interrogator was installed and the Elisra NS9003A-V2HC ESM system replaced the SLQ-501 CANEWS. An IBM multi-link (Link 11, Link 16 and Link 22 enabled) datalink processing system was installed along with two Raytheon Anschütz Pathfinder Mk II navigation radars. Furthermore, Rheinmetall's Multi-Ammunition Soft kill System (MASS), known as MASS DUERAS was introduced to replace the Plessey Shield decoy system. The existing 57 mm Mk 2 guns were upgraded to the Mk 3 standard and the Harpoon missiles were improved to Block II levels, the Phalanx was upgraded to Block 1B and the obsolete Sea Sparrow system was replaced by the Evolved Sea Sparrow Missile.\n\n\"Montréal\" was laid down on 8 February 1991 by Saint John Shipbuilding Ltd. at Saint John and launched on 28 February 1992. She was commissioned into the Canadian Forces on 21 July 1994 by Francine St-Pierre and carries the hull classification symbol FFH 336. In January 1995 \"Montréal\" joined the NATO mission in the Adriatic Sea enforcing the United Nations blockade of Yugoslavia. Twice she acted as the flagship of the force before returning to Canada on 19 July 2005. In 1997 as part of an experiment to reduce noise, the warship had 12,500 anechoic tiles added to her hull. The experiment was not successful. As part of a NATO fleet in 1998, \"Montréal\" sailed to Saint Petersburg, Russia as part of celebrations of the 300th anniversary of the Russian Navy. The frigate represented Canada in the Millennium International Fleet Review in New York City.\n\nIn July 2000, the American merchant ship GTS \"Katie\" refused to bring its Canadian military cargo into port, claiming unpaid fees. On 30 July, the Canadian Forces sent the destroyer to maintain contact with the rogue ship and deployed \"Montréal\" the following day. As part of Operation Megaphone, a detachment of personnel was sent over by CH-124 Sea King to board \"Katie\". The crew of the merchant ship offered no resistance and the ship was escorted into port. The captain of the ship later claimed that the ship had been attacked and the boarding had been \"dangerous\". The Canadian Defence Minister later rebuffed those charges, claiming the boarding had been necessary.\n\nIn 2002, \"Montréal\" sailed to take part in Operation Apollo, Canada's naval contribution to the War in Afghanistan. Arriving on 9 September the frigate remained in theatre until 25 April 2003. The warship had remained longer than usual in theatre due to a crash of a CH-124 Sea King aboard her replacement, the destroyer . In 2004, the frigate sailed to the Arctic, becoming the first major Canadian warship to visit the region since 1982. In January 2005, \"Montréal\" deployed as part of a NATO rapid reaction force. On 8 February 2005 a crewmember was lost overboard and subsequently pronounced dead.\n\nThe warship participated in Operation Nanook in 2010. In 2010 \"Montréal\" engaged in acceptance trials for the new CH-148 Cyclone maritime helicopter. Several modifications had to be made for the trials to the ship, including adding night-vision friendly green filters to the flight deck landing lights and reinforcing the flight deck due to the Cyclone being heavier than the CH-124 Sea King. \"Montréal\" successfully completed the tests which included routine flying operations as well as responding to some critical situations.\nOn 3 July 2011, as part of their national Canadian tour, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge embarked on the vessel which conveyed them from Montréal to Quebec City. In August, \"Montréal\" sailed up the St. Lawrence Seaway into Lake Ontario as part of Great Lakes Deployment 11 where she visited multiple cities including Toronto, Hamilton, Montréal, and Trois-Rivières. On 5 July 2012, \"Montréal\" was turned over to Irving Shipbuilding's Halifax Shipyards, to start an 18-month mid-life upgrading and modernization (HCM/FELEX). \"Montréal\" re-joined the fleet after completing the Halifax Class Modernization refit on 26 September 2013. Subsequently, \"Montréal\" conducted sea trials for her new combat and weapons systems. \"Montréal\" achieved Restricted Readiness on 9 May 2014. After further Sea Acceptance Trials and Work Ups, \"Montréal\" assumed Normal Readiness on 9 March 2015, being the fifth post-refit frigate to achieve this milestone.\nIn late 2015, \"Montréal\" deployed for a large NATO naval exercise, Joint Warrior. On completion of this exercise, \"Montréal\" participated in \"At Sea Demonstration 2015\" (ASD 2015), a multinational exercise that took place off the Hebrides Islands of Scotland in October 2015. The exercise was conducted under the Maritime Theater Missile Defence Forum (MTMD), an international group that aims to improve maritime integrated air and missile defence capabilities within a coalition context. While on exercise during a port visit in Faslane, Scotland, \"Montréal\" hosted an official royal visit by Prince Charles who was recently appointed as Commodore in Chief of the Royal Canadian Navy's Atlantic Fleet. \"Montréal\" returned to Halifax on 27 November 2015.\n\nThe ship participated in further sea trials with the CH-148 Cyclone helicopters off the coast of Nova Scotia in March 2016. In April it was announced that \"Montréal\" and sister ship would be the test ships for the Royal Canadian Navy's planned reduced crew size trials. On 24 October 2016, \"Montréal\" began her first deployment after conversion to an experimental ship. In May 2017, 120 of the crew were deployed in the Mauricie region of Quebec to participate in flood relief efforts. In August 2017, \"Montréal\" and the s and departed Halifax to take part in the Operation Nanook in Canada's northern waters.\n\n\nCommanding Officer: Commander Geoffrey R. Simpson\nExecutive Officer: Lieutenant-Commander Jolene Lisi\nCoxswain: Chief Petty Officer 1st Class Todd Hodder\n\nFirst of Name\nShore establishment \nNaval Reserve Division, Montreal, Quebec \nCommissioned as a tender to HMCS \"Hochelaga II\" 1 November 1941 \nRecommissioned as an independent shore establishment 1 September 1942 \nPaid off 26 October 1943 and redesignated \n\nSecond of Name\nFrigate, River Class \nCommissioned 12 November 1943 \nPaid off 15 October 1945\n\nThird of Name\nThis is the current ship with the name \"Montréal\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082197", "title": "Julius Röntgen", "text": "Julius Röntgen\n\nJulius Engelbert Röntgen (9 May 1855 – 13 September 1932) was a German-Dutch composer of classical music.\n\nJulius Röntgen was born in Leipzig, Germany, to a family of musicians. His father, the Dutch born Engelbert Röntgen, was first violinist in the Gewandhaus orchestra in Leipzig; his mother, Pauline Klengel, was a pianist, an aunt of the renowned cellist Julius Klengel, born in 1859.\n\nJulius was a gifted child. Neither he nor his sisters attended school; he was taught music by his parents and grandparents, and other subjects by private tutors. His first piano teacher was Carl Reinecke, the director of the Gewandhaus orchestra, while his early compositions were influenced by Reinecke, but also by Robert Schumann, Franz Liszt and Johannes Brahms.\n\nIn 1870, at the age of 14, Julius Röntgen visited Franz Liszt in Weimar; after playing piano for him he was invited to a soiree at Liszt's house.\n\nIn Leipzig, he and his parents were part of the musical circle around Heinrich von Herzogenberg, and it was at their house that he first met Brahms. Later Röntgen moved to Munich, where he studied piano under Franz Lachner, a friend of Franz Schubert. At the age of 18 he became a professional pianist. During a concert tour through southern Germany he became acquainted with the singer Julius Stockhausen; at this time he also met a Swedish music student Amanda Maier, whom he would marry in 1880.\n\nIn 1877 Röntgen had to make a decision whether to go to Vienna or Amsterdam. He chose Amsterdam, and became a piano teacher in the music school there. The aristocratic politician Alexander de Savornin Lohman, who was professor of law at the University of Amsterdam and an important figure in the cultural life of that city, was a friend of Röntgen's father, and he promised to take young Julius under his wing. According to Röntgen's letter of 1877 he considered the school \"a place full of children and amateurs\"; since the school was not supported by public funds, it appeared to attach more importance to the number of its students rather than their quality.\n\nBetween 1878 and 1885 Brahms was a frequent visitor in Amsterdam. In 1887 Röntgen performed Brahms's second piano concerto, conducted by the composer himself.\n\nRöntgen also played an important part in establishing institutions for classical music in Amsterdam. In 1883, in association with composers Frans Coenen and Daniel de Lange, Röntgen founded the Amsterdam Conservatory. In 1884 Röntgen was heavily involved in the foundation of the Concertgebouw. He applied for the position of the director; however, to his great disappointment, the choice fell instead on the German Hans von Bülow, as the committee seemed to doubt Röntgen's abilities as a conductor. Nevertheless, Bülow was not able to accept the appointment, and the position went in the end to the violinist Willem Kes.\n\nRöntgen turned with greater energy to composing chamber music and to his work for the Conservatory. He became a renowned accompanying pianist, working for the great violinist Carl Flesch, the singer Johannes Messchaert, and the cello player Pablo Casals. Travelling with Messchaert he came to Vienna at least once a year, where he would always meet Brahms.\nDuring the quiet summer periods in Amsterdam, Röntgen and his family often went to Denmark. On one of such visit he met Bodil de Neergaard, with whom he struck up a close friendship. As a result of his close contacts with Denmark, Röntgen's children became fluent speakers of Danish.\n\nFor some years, Röntgen and his sons performed together as a piano trio. After the death of his wife Amanda in 1894, Röntgen married the gifted piano teacher Abrahamina des Amorie van der Hoeven. The children of the second marriage also became professional musicians. Röntgen's son Joachim, a violinist, founded the Röntgen String Quartet.\n\nAt the end of the First World War, in 1919, Röntgen became a naturalized Dutch citizen. One of his sons was taken prisoner by the Germans during the war, while another son emigrated to the United States where he became a soldier in the US army. As a result, Röntgen was for many years unable to visit his native Germany.\n\nIn the years from 1920 on Röntgen experimented with atonal music; he wrote e.g. a bi-tonal symphony in 1930. Sometimes he performed as a piano accompanist in silent screen productions with popular and folk scenes of the film-maker Dirk van der Ven in the Tuschinski cinema theatre in Amsterdam. He had already published these popular and folk tunes in an earlier stage of his life. He also made many recordings on player piano rolls for the pianola.\n\nIn 1924 Röntgen retired from public life. He moved to Bilthoven, a small village near Utrecht. His son Frants, who followed a career in architecture, designed for him the country house Gaudeamus. The unusual round music room in that house was constructed in such a way that its floor did not touch the ground, but hung from the ceiling. During the last eight years of his life Röntgen wrote about 100 compositions, mostly chamber music and songs. Gaudeamus became a meeting place for many important composers and musicians; among the visitors in that house were Pablo Casals and Percy Grainger. At that time, Röntgen studied musical analysis and was interested in the work of Hindemith, Stravinsky, Schönberg, and Willem Pijper.\n\nIn 1930 Röntgen received an honorary doctorate from the University of Edinburgh, where his friend Donald Francis Tovey was professor. During this visit Tovey performed a new Röntgen symphony with the Reid Orchestra and Röntgen was the soloist in his most recent two piano concertos in the same programme. Two years after Röntgen's death, Tovey described him as \"one of the greatest masters of absolute music I have ever known\". After Second World War the villa Gaudeamus became the seat of the Gaudeamus society, whose aim is to promote contemporary Dutch music.\n\nRöntgen died in a hospital in Utrecht, Netherlands on 14 September 1932. His last work, a piano quintet (his third for piano and strings, in G major) subtitled \"Sentendo nuova forza\", is dated 5 July of that year.\n\nJulius Röntgen's works include 25 symphonies, concertos (7 piano concertos, 3 violin concertos, 3 cello concertos, other concertos), as well as numerous chamber, piano and vocal works. He also completed Grieg's unfinished String Quartet No. 2.\n\nRöntgen also harmonized and arranged traditional Dutch melodies used as hymn tunes. One such hymn tune is entitled \"In Babilone\". It can be found as hymn number 325 \"The United Methodist Hymnal\" (C) 1989 The United Methodist Publishing House, Nashville, TN. In the Methodist hymnal his name is spelled Roentgen but the tune is the same and dates correlate with the time of his work. The same hymn tune can be found as hymn numbers 502, 508 and 649 in the \"Celebrating Grace\" hymnal (C) 2010 Celebrating Grace, Inc, Macon, GA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082199", "title": "HMCS Fredericton (FFH 337)", "text": "HMCS Fredericton (FFH 337)\n\nHMCS \"Fredericton\" is a that has served in the Canadian Forces since 1994. \"Fredericton\" is the eighth ship in her class which is based on the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project. She is the second vessel to carry the name. \"Fredericton\" serves on MARLANT missions protecting Canada's sovereignty in the Atlantic Ocean and enforcing Canadian laws in its territorial sea and Exclusive Economic Zone. \"Fredericton\" has also been deployed on missions throughout the Atlantic and to the Indian Ocean; specifically the Persian Gulf and Arabian Sea on anti-terrorism operations. \"Fredericton\" has also participated in several NATO missions, patrolling the Atlantic Ocean as part of Standing Naval Force Atlantic (STANAVFORLANT) and its successor Standing NATO Response Force Maritime Group 1 (SNMG1). The frigate is assigned to Maritime Forces Atlantic (MARLANT) and is homeported at CFB Halifax.\n\nAs of 4 July 2018 \"Fredericton\" has been commanded by Commander Blair Brown.\n\nThe \"Halifax\"-class frigate design, emerging from the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project, was ordered by the Canadian Forces in 1977 as a replacement for the aging , , , and es of destroyer escorts, which were all tasked with anti-submarine warfare. \"Fredericton\" was ordered in December 1987 as part of the second batch of frigates. To reflect the changing long term strategy of the Navy during the 1980s and 1990s, the \"Halifax\"-class frigates was designed as a general purpose warship with particular focus on anti-submarine capabilities.\n\nAs built, the \"Halifax\"-class vessels displaced and were long overall and between perpendiculars with a beam of and a draught of . That made them slightly larger than the \"Iroquois\"-class destroyers. The vessels are propelled by two shafts with Escher Wyss controllable pitch propellers driven by a CODOG system of two General Electric LM2500 gas turbines, generating and one SEMT Pielstick 20 PA6 V 280 diesel engine, generating .\n\nThis gives the frigates a maximum speed of and a range of at while using their diesel engines. Using their gas turbines, the ships have a range of at . The \"Halifax\" class have a complement of 198 naval personnel of which 17 are officers and 17 aircrew of which 8 are officers.\n\nAs built the \"Halifax\"-class vessels deployed the CH-124 Sea King helicopter, which acted in concert with shipboard sensors to seek out and destroy submarines at long distances from the ships. The ships have a helicopter deck fitted with a \"bear trap\" system allowing the launch and recovery of helicopters in up to sea state 6. The \"Halifax\" class also carries a close-in anti-submarine weapon in the form of the Mark 46 torpedo, launched from twin Mark 32 Mod 9 torpedo tubes in launcher compartments either side of the forward end of the helicopter hangar.\n\nAs built, the anti-shipping role is supported by the RGM-84 Harpoon Block 1C surface-to-surface missile, mounted in two quadruple launch tubes at the main deck level between the funnel and the helicopter hangar. For anti-aircraft self-defence the ships are armed with the Sea Sparrow vertical launch surface-to-air missile in two Mk 48 Mod 0 eight-cell launchers placed to port and starboard of the funnel. The vessels carry 16 missiles. A Raytheon/General Dynamics Phalanx Mark 15 Mod 21 Close-In Weapon System (CIWS) is mounted on top of the helicopter hangar for \"last-ditch\" defence against targets that evade the Sea Sparrow.\n\nAs built, the main gun on the forecastle is a /70 calibre Mark 2 gun from Bofors. The gun is capable of firing shells at a rate of 220 rounds per minute at a range of more than . The vessels also carry eight machine guns.\n\nAs built, the decoy system comprises Two BAE Systems Shield Mark 2 decoy launchers which fire chaff to and infrared rockets to in distraction, confusion and centroid seduction modes. The torpedo decoy is the AN/SLQ-25A Nixie towed acoustic decoy from Argon ST. The ship's radar warning receiver, the CANEWS (Canadian Electronic Warfare System), SLQ-501, and the radar jammer, SLQ-505, were developed by Thorn and Lockheed Martin Canada.\n\nTwo Thales Nederland (formerly Signaal) SPG-503 (STIR 1.8) fire control radars are installed one on the roof of the bridge and one on the raised radar platform immediately forward of the helicopter hangar. The ship is also fitted with Raytheon AN/SPS-49(V)5 long-range active air search radar operating at C and D bands, Ericsson HC150 Sea Giraffe medium-range air and surface search radar operating at G and H bands, and Kelvin Hughes Type 1007 I-band navigation radar. The sonar suite includes the CANTASS Canadian Towed Array and GD-C AN/SQS-510 hull mounted sonar and incorporates an acoustic range prediction system. The sonobuoy processing system is the GD-C AN/UYS-503.\n\nThe \"Halifax\" class underwent a modernization program, known as the Halifax Class Modernization (HCM) program, in order to update the frigates' capabilities in combatting modern smaller, faster and more mobile threats. This involved upgrading the command and control, radar, communications, electronic warfare and armament systems. Further improvements, such as modifying the vessel to accommodate the new Sikorsky CH-148 Cyclone helicopter and satellite links will be done separately from the main Frigate Equipment Life Extension (FELEX) program.\n\nThe FELEX program comprised upgrading the combat systems integration to CMS330. The SPS-49 2D long range air search radar was replaced by the Thales Nederland SMART-S Mk 2 E/F-band 3D surveillance radar, and the two STIR 1.8 fire control radars were replaced by a pair of Saab Ceros 200 re-control radars. A Telephonics IFF Mode 5/S interrogator was installed and the Elisra NS9003A-V2HC ESM system replaced the SLQ-501 CANEWS. An IBM multi-link (Link 11, Link 16 and Link 22 enabled) datalink processing system was installed along with two Raytheon Anschütz Pathfinder Mk II navigation radars. Furthermore, Rheinmetall's Multi-Ammunition Soft kill System (MASS), known as MASS DUERAS was introduced to replace the Plessey Shield decoy system. The existing 57 mm Mk 2 guns were upgraded to the Mk 3 standard and the Harpoon missiles were improved to Block II levels, the Phalanx was upgraded to Block 1B and the obsolete Sea Sparrow system was replaced by the Evolved Sea Sparrow Missile.\n\n\"Fredericton\"s keel was laid down on 25 April 1992 at Saint John Shipbuilding Ltd. at Saint John, New Brunswick and the frigate was launched on 26 June 1993. \"Fredericton\" was commissioned into the Canadian Forces on 10 September 1994 at Fredericton and carries the hull classification symbol FFH 337. From February to April 1995, the frigate sailed to the Persian Gulf to take part in sanctions enforcement against Iraq that were instituted following the end of the Gulf War. On 5 April, while transiting the Gulf of Aden, the frigate responded to a distress call from the yacht \"Longo Barda\" which was under attack by pirates.\n\n\"Fredericton\" was among the Canadian warships that participated in Operation Sharp Guard, enforcing the United Nations blockade of Yugoslavia. The warship deployed to the Adriatic Sea, joining the blockade force on 14 December 1995. \"Fredericton\" was flagship of the force from 29 February to 11 March 1996. The ship returned to Halifax on 4 April 1996. In 1996, \"Fredericton\" took part in a NATO naval exercise in the Norwegian Sea. While returning home from the naval exercise, the ship suffered damage during a storm. The ship deployed three more times to NATO units, in 1997, 2000 and 2001. The frigate sailed to take part in Operation Apollo, Canada's contribution to the War in Afghanistan. The vessel was in theatre from 5 March to 28 August 2003 performing maritime interdiction and fleet support missions.\n\nA fire broke out in the forward engine room of the frigate on 6 May 2009. The fire was suppressed within a few minutes and the ship made a brief stop at the home base of Halifax before being given the all-clear to return to sea. \"Fredericton\" departed Halifax, Nova Scotia on 25 October 2009 to commence her transit to the Gulf of Aden, northern Arabian Sea and Gulf of Oman. She integrated into SNMG1 in November 2009 and remained with SNMG1 until February 2010 conducting counter-piracy patrols in the Gulf of Aden and Somali Basin. Following a Rest and Maintenance Period (RAMP), the vessel integrated into Combined Task Force 150 (CTF 150) to conduct counter-terror patrols in the Gulf of Aden and Gulf of Oman. \"Fredericton\" returned home on 4 May 2010, the 100th Anniversary of the Canadian Navy. On 18 November 2010, \"Fredericton\" briefly came into contact with during a replenishment-at-sea manoeuvre off the coast of Florida. There were no injuries, but both ships suffered superficial damage consisting of scrapes and dents on both hulls.\n\nOn 6 October 2011, \"Fredericton\" was turned over to Irving Shipbuilding's Halifax Shipyards, to start the vessel's FELEX mid-life upgrading and modernization. \"Fredericton\" was returned to CFB Halifax Dockyard on 24 January 2013. She completed readiness work-ups (WUPs) in September 2014. Following her refit, \"Fredericton\" was deployed to the Mediterranean Sea as part of Operation Reassurance on 30 December 2014. The frigate joined Standing NATO Maritime Group 2 (SNMG2) in the Black Sea in March 2015 for training exercises. As part of SNMG2, \"Fredericton\" took part in Exercise \"Joint Warrior\", a training exercise off the coast of the United Kingdom in April 2015.\n\n\"Fredericton\" deployed to the Baltic Sea in June 2015 for training. While there Prime Minister Stephen Harper and Defence Minister Jason Kenney visited the ship. While they were aboard, the frigate was tailed by two Russian ships keeping a distance of . The frigate returned from deployment on 12 July 2015. During a routine inspection in November, fissures were found in the hull requiring repairs at Halifax. Following completion of repairs, the ship relieved in the Mediterranean, sailing on 5 January 2016.\n\nDuring her deployment with SNMG2 in the Mediterranean, \"Fredericton\" was charged with halting the smuggling of migrants to Europe. In April it was announced that \"Fredericton\" would be one of the test ships for the Royal Canadian Navy's planned reduced crew size trials. \"Fredericton\" deployed to Operation Reassurance with a reduced version of the experiment that will be done on sister ship . The same month, SNMG2 deployed to the Black Sea as part of Operation Reassurance. The ship returned to Halifax on 5 July 2016.\n\nIn September 2016 \"Fredericton\" was among the Canadian warships deployed to the NATO naval training exercise \"Cutlass Fury\" off the east coast of North America. In November the frigate sailed to the Caribbean Sea visiting several nations. \"Fredericton\" stopped at Cuba to make the first port visit by a Canadian warship in 50 years to the country.\n\nOn 20 January 2020, \"Fredericton\" departed Halifax as part of Operation Reassurance in the Mediterranean and Black seas. While in the Mediterranean, the frigate made a port call in Italy in March, sparking concerns over possible infection during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, no cases were found aboard the ship and the vessel was ordered to cancel a number of other port calls while continuing its mission.\n\nOn 29 April 2020, it was reported the frigate's Sikorsky CH-148 Cyclone had crashed into the Ionian Sea, near the Greek island of Cephalonia. The helicopter had been returning from a NATO training mission, with six members of the Canadian Armed Forces onboard, at the time of the incident. Of the six service members killed, four were members of the Royal Canadian Air Force, with the remaining two members of the Royal Canadian Navy. As of 1 May 2020, only one body has been recovered, with the remaining victims missing and presumed dead.\n\nFirst of Name - Corvette, Revised Flower class\n\nCommissioned 8 December 1941\n\nPaid off 9 July 1945\n\nSecond of Name\n\nThis is the current ship with the name Fredericton\n\n"}
{"id": "2082201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082201", "title": "Potential temperature", "text": "Potential temperature\n\nThe potential temperature of a parcel of fluid at pressure formula_1 is the temperature that the parcel would attain if adiabatically brought to a standard reference pressure formula_2, usually . The potential temperature is denoted formula_3 and, for a gas well-approximated as ideal, is given by\n\nwhere formula_5 is the current absolute temperature (in K) of the parcel, formula_6 is the gas constant of air, and formula_7 is the specific heat capacity at a constant pressure.\nformula_8 for air (meteorology).\n\nThe concept of potential temperature applies to any stratified fluid. It is most frequently used in the atmospheric sciences and oceanography. The reason that it is used\nin both fluids is that changes in pressure can result in warmer fluid residing under colder fluid – examples being dropping air temperature with altitude and increasing water temperature with depth in very deep ocean trenches and \nwithin the ocean mixed layer. When potential temperature is used instead, these apparently unstable conditions vanish as a parcel of fluid is invariant along its isolines.\n\nPotential temperature is a more dynamically important quantity than the actual temperature. This is because it is not affected by the physical lifting or sinking associated with flow over obstacles or large-scale atmospheric turbulence. A parcel of air moving over a small mountain will expand and cool as it ascends the slope, then compress and warm as it descends on the other side- but the potential temperature will not change in the absence of heating, cooling, evaporation, or condensation (processes that exclude these effects are referred to as dry adiabatic). Since parcels with the same potential temperature can be exchanged without work or heating being required, lines of constant potential temperature are natural flow pathways.\n\nUnder almost all circumstances, potential temperature increases upwards in the atmosphere, unlike actual temperature which may increase or decrease. Potential temperature is conserved for all dry adiabatic processes, and as such is an important quantity in the planetary boundary layer (which is often very close to being dry adiabatic).\nPotential temperature is a useful measure of the static stability of the unsaturated atmosphere. Under normal, stably stratified conditions, the potential temperature increases with height,\n\nand vertical motions are suppressed. If the potential temperature decreases with height,\n\nthe atmosphere is unstable to vertical motions, and convection is likely. Since convection acts to quickly mix the atmosphere and return to a stably stratified state, observations of decreasing potential temperature with height are uncommon, except while vigorous convection is underway or during periods of strong insolation. Situations in which the equivalent potential temperature decreases with height, indicating instability in saturated air, are much more common.\n\nSince potential temperature is conserved under adiabatic or isentropic air motions, in steady, adiabatic flow lines or surfaces of constant potential temperature act as streamlines or flow surfaces, respectively. This fact is used in isentropic analysis, a form of synoptic analysis which allows visualization of air motions and in particular analysis of large-scale vertical motion.\n\nThe atmospheric boundary layer (ABL) potential temperature perturbation is defined as the difference between the potential temperature of the ABL and the potential temperature of the free atmosphere above the ABL. This value is called the potential temperature deficit in the case of a katabatic flow, because the surface will always be colder than the free atmosphere and the PT perturbation will be negative.\n\nThe enthalpy form of the first law of thermodynamics can be written as:\n\nwhere formula_12 denotes the enthalpy change, formula_5 the temperature, formula_14 the change in entropy, formula_15 the specific volume, and formula_16 the pressure.\n\nFor adiabatic processes, the change in entropy is 0 and the 1st law simplifies to:\n\nFor approximately ideal gases, such as the dry air in the Earth's atmosphere, the equation of state, formula_18 can be substituted into the 1st law\nyielding, after some rearrangement:\n\nwhere the formula_20 was used and both terms were divided by the product formula_21\n\nIntegrating yields:\n\nand solving for formula_23, the temperature a parcel would acquire if moved adiabatically to the pressure level formula_24, you get:\n\nThe potential virtual temperature formula_26, defined by\n\nis the theoretical potential temperature of the dry air which would have the same density as the humid air at a standard pressure P. It is used as a practical substitute for density in buoyancy calculations. In this definition formula_3 is the potential temperature, formula_29 is the mixing ratio of water vapor, and formula_30 is the mixing ratio of liquid water in the air.\n\nThe Brunt–Väisälä frequency is a closely related quantity that uses potential temperature and is used extensively in investigations of atmospheric stability.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082202", "title": "Baron Fairhaven", "text": "Baron Fairhaven\n\nBaron Fairhaven, of Anglesey Abbey in the County of Cambridge, is a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom. It was created in 1961 for Urban Huttleston Broughton, 1st Baron Fairhaven, with remainder to his younger brother, Henry Rogers Broughton (1900–1973). He had already been created Baron Fairhaven, of Lode in the County of Cambridge, in 1929, with remainder to the heirs male of his body.\n\nThe first Baron Fairhaven was the eldest son of Urban Hanlon Broughton, a civil engineer, businessman and Conservative Member of Parliament who died in January 1929 before his intended elevation to the peerage as Baron Fairhaven. At the same time, Lord Fairhaven's mother, Cara Leland Broughton, daughter of the American industrialist Henry Huttleston Rogers, was granted Royal warrant to the style and title as if her husband had been created Baron Fairhaven.\n\nAs the first Baron Fairhaven had no male heirs, in 1961 he was created Baron Fairhaven, of Anglesey Abbey in the County of Cambridge, with special remainder to his younger brother, Henry. On his death in 1966, the barony of 1929 became extinct and he was succeeded in the barony of 1961 by his brother, Henry, who became the second Baron. the title is held by the latter's only son, the third Baron, who succeeded in 1973.\n\nThe title is unusual in referring to a town in the United States, Fairhaven in Massachusetts, which was the birthplace of the first Baron.\n\nThe family seat is Anglesey Abbey, near Lode, Cambridgeshire.\n\n\n\nThe heir apparent is the present holder's son, the Hon. James Henry Ailwyn Broughton (b. 1963)<br>\nThe next in line to the heir apparent is his son, George Ailwyn James Broughton (b. 1997)\n\n"}
{"id": "2082203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082203", "title": "Jeffrey Davidow", "text": "Jeffrey Davidow\n\nJeffrey S. Davidow (born January 26, 1944) is a career foreign service officer from the U.S. state of Virginia. Davidow has served as a member of the Senior Foreign Service, as well as having been the U.S. Ambassador to Zambia, Venezuela, and Mexico.\n\nUpon completion of 34 years of service, he retired as the highest ranking U.S. diplomat. Davidow was one of the few people to hold the rank of Career Ambassador.\n\nDavidow was born in Boston, Massachusetts. He received a B.A. from the University of Massachusetts in 1965 and an MA from the University of Minnesota in 1967. He also did postgraduate work in India 1968 on a Fulbright travel grant.\n\nDavidow joined the U.S. Foreign Service in 1969 and began his career as a junior officer at the American Embassy in Guatemala City, Guatemala, from 1970 to 1972. From 1972 to 1974, he was a U.S. political observer in Santiago, Chile (involved in the case of Charles Horman), and held the same position in Cape Town, South Africa, from 1974 to 1976. He returned to Washington, D.C. in 1976 to take a position as a desk officer in the Office of Southern African Affairs, and he went on to be a Congressional fellow from 1978 to 1979.\n\nHe later became the head of the liaison office at the U.S. Embassy in Harare, Zimbabwe, from 1979 to 1982. He returned shortly thereafter to pursue a fellowship at Harvard University, as well as to take-over as Director of the Office of Southern African Affairs in 1985.\n\nOn May 5, 1988, President Ronald Reagan nominated Davidow to be U.S. Ambassador to Zambia, a position he held until 1990.\n\nAfter his ambassadorship to Zambia, he served as deputy assistant secretary of state.\n\nIn 1993, President Bill Clinton nominated Davidow to be U.S. Ambassador to Venezuela. Davidow remained ambassador until 1996.\n\nFrom 1996 to 1998, he was the State Department's chief policy maker for the Western Hemisphere, serving in the position of Assistant Secretary of State.\n\nClinton again nominated Davidow in 1998, this time as U.S. Ambassador to Mexico. Davidow held this post from August 5, 1998, until September 14, 2002.\n\nAfter leaving Mexico in September 2002, he returned to Harvard to become a Visiting Fellow at the John F. Kennedy School of Government and the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies. During the 2002–03 academic year, he worked extensively with undergraduate and graduate students and wrote a book on U.S.–Mexican relations. \"The US and Mexico: The Bear and the Porcupine\" was first published in Spanish in Mexico by Casa Editorial Grijalbo and in English by Markus Weiner Publishers in April 2004.\n\nDavidow assumed the presidency of the Institute of the Americas on June 1, 2003. The Institute of the Americas, founded in 1983, is an independent, non-profit institution at the University of California, San Diego. Its mission is to be a catalyst for promoting development and integration as a means to improve the economic, political, and social well-being of the people of the Americas.\n\nIn 2004, Davidow was among 27 retired diplomats and military commanders called Diplomats and Military Commanders for Change who publicly said the administration of President George W. Bush did not understand the world and was unable to handle \"in either style or substance\" the responsibilities of global leadership. On June 16, 2004 the former senior diplomats and military commanders issued a statement against the Iraq War.\n\nHe has also served as adviser to President Barack Obama for the Summit of the Americas. He is also a member of the advisory board for the Mexico Institute.\n\nDavidow and his wife, Joan, reside in La Jolla, California.\nThe Archives and Special Collections at Amherst College holds some of his papers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082207", "title": "Jacques Mieses", "text": "Jacques Mieses\n\nJacques Mieses (born Jakob Mieses; 27 February 1865 – 23 February 1954) was a German-born chess Grandmaster and writer. He became a naturalized British citizen after World War II.\n\nBorn \"Jakob Mieses\" in Leipzig, Germany in 1865, his early successes as an adult chess player included a tie for second at Leipzig and third at Nuremberg in 1888, however he was quickly eclipsed by two rising young superstars, Emanuel Lasker and Siegbert Tarrasch. Mieses attained maturity as a player in 1895, just after turning 30, when he contested the 9th Chess Congress in Leipzig, followed by an exhibition tour in Russia and then a match with David Janowski. His participation in the great Hastings tournament that year was important to his growth as a mature chess master despite a 20th-place finish.\n\nMieses was a dangerous attacker with a number of famous victories to his credit, e.g. against Frank Marshall (Monte Carlo 1903). His best achievement was to win the first Trebitsch Memorial at Vienna 1907, and he came third at the 28-round Masters tournament at Ostend the same year.\n\nHe organized the 1911 San Sebastian master tournament and insisted that all the masters' expenses were paid. This was the first international tournament of José Raúl Capablanca, who surprised everyone by winning.\n\nAfter the Nazi takeover of Germany, the Jewish Mieses moved to the UK. In 1950 he became the first FIDE-authorized British grandmaster, though not (as is sometimes claimed) the first British grandmaster. (\"Grandmaster\" is a title first used of chess players in the 19th century, and a number of British players were considered to be grandmasters in their day, such as Howard Staunton and Joseph Blackburne. When FIDE first awarded the grandmaster title in 1950, Mieses was one of the 27 original recipients, and the oldest of them.\n\nMieses, now past the age of 70, settled in England in 1938 following Kristallnacht in Germany, and arrived with just 15 Reichsmarks in his pocket. He continued to actively play chess and participated in his last major event at Hastings 1946, when he was 80 years old and half a century after Hastings 1895. The octogenarian Mieses only won a single game against a 22-year-old opponent, but secured the brilliancy prize for a game-winning attack combination. Three years later, at 84, he defeated the 86-year-old Dutch master Dirk van Foreest, afterwards commenting \"Youth has been victorious\" and also gave a series of exhibition matches in western Europe. He died in February 1954, a few days before his 89th birthday.\n\nMieses's professional chess career lasted 64 years, a record that still stands as of 2018. His durability at an advanced age was attributed to his belief in physical fitness; he engaged in daily swims until almost the end of his life.\n\nMieses wrote many tournament reports, but his style was regarded as fairly dry, in contrast with his wittiness in person.\n\nMieses largely adhered to the 19th century Romantic school of play and showed little aptitude for positional chess. He used almost exclusively e4 openings and he was the last chess master of note to make any serious use of the Center Game and Vienna Game. On the Black side of an e4 opening, he generally used the French Defense or Sicilian Defense. The Queen's Gambit and Dutch Defense were his usual replies to d4 openings.\n\nHe often used the Scandinavian Defense and greatly developed its theory in the early 1900s. The chess opening 1.d3 is named the Mieses Opening. He is also known for the Mieses Variation of the Vienna Game, which runs 1.e4 e5. 2.Nc3 Nf6 (or 2...Nc6) 3.g3. Its king bishop fianchetto can be seen as an early example of hypermodernism. There is also a line in the Scotch Game named The Mieses Variation (1.e4 e5 2.Nf3 Nc6 3.d4 exd4 4.Nxd4 Nf6 6.Nxc6) after he employed it four times at Hastings 1895.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082208", "title": "HMCS Charlottetown (FFH 339)", "text": "HMCS Charlottetown (FFH 339)\n\nHMCS \"Charlottetown\" is a that has served in the Royal Canadian Navy since 1995. \"Charlottetown\" is the tenth ship in her class which is based on the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project. She is the third vessel to carry the designation . \"Charlottetown\", assigned to Maritime Forces Atlantic (MARLANT) and homeported at CFB Halifax, serves on missions protecting Canada's sovereignty in the Atlantic Ocean and enforcing Canadian laws in its territorial sea and exclusive economic zone. \"Charlottetown\" has also participated in several NATO missions, patrolling the Atlantic Ocean as part of Standing Naval Force Atlantic (STANAVFORLANT) and its successors Standing NATO Maritime Group 1 and 2 (SNMG1 / SNMG2). \"Charlottetown\" has also been deployed on missions throughout the Atlantic and to the Indian Ocean, specifically the Persian Gulf and Arabian Sea on anti-terrorism operations.\n\nThe \"Halifax\"-class frigate design, emerging from the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project, was ordered by the Canadian Forces in 1977 as a replacement for the aging , , , and es of destroyer escorts, which were all tasked with anti-submarine warfare. \"Charlottetown\" was ordered in December 1987 as part of the second batch of frigates. To reflect the changing long term strategy of the Navy during the 1980s and 1990s, the \"Halifax\"-class frigates was designed as a general purpose warship with particular focus on anti-submarine capabilities.\n\nAs built, the \"Halifax\"-class vessels displaced and were long overall and between perpendiculars with a beam of and a draught of . That made them slightly larger than the \"Iroquois\"-class destroyers. The vessels are propelled by two shafts with Escher Wyss controllable pitch propellers driven by a CODOG system of two General Electric LM2500 gas turbines, generating and one SEMT Pielstick 20 PA6 V 280 diesel engine, generating .\n\nThis gives the frigates a maximum speed of and a range of at while using their diesel engines. Using their gas turbines, the ships have a range of at . The \"Halifax\" class have a complement of 198 naval personnel of which 17 are officers and 17 aircrew of which 8 are officers.\n\nAs built the \"Halifax\"-class vessels deployed the CH-124 Sea King helicopter, which acted in concert with shipboard sensors to seek out and destroy submarines at long distances from the ships. The ships have a helicopter deck fitted with a \"bear trap\" system allowing the launch and recovery of helicopters in up to sea state 6. The \"Halifax\" class also carries a close-in anti-submarine weapon in the form of the Mark 46 torpedo, launched from twin Mark 32 Mod 9 torpedo tubes in launcher compartments either side of the forward end of the helicopter hangar.\n\nAs built, the anti-shipping role is supported by the RGM-84 Harpoon Block 1C surface-to-surface missile, mounted in two quadruple launch tubes at the main deck level between the funnel and the helicopter hangar. For anti-aircraft self-defence the ships are armed with the Sea Sparrow vertical launch surface-to-air missile in two Mk 48 Mod 0 eight-cell launchers placed to port and starboard of the funnel. The vessels carry 16 missiles. A Raytheon/General Dynamics Phalanx Mark 15 Mod 21 Close-In Weapon System (CIWS) is mounted on top of the helicopter hangar for \"last-ditch\" defence against targets that evade the Sea Sparrow.\n\nAs built, the main gun on the forecastle is a /70 calibre Mark 2 gun from Bofors. The gun is capable of firing shells at a rate of 220 rounds per minute at a range of more than . The vessels also carry eight machine guns.\n\nAs built, the decoy system comprises Two BAE Systems Shield Mark 2 decoy launchers which fire chaff to and infrared rockets to in distraction, confusion and centroid seduction modes. The torpedo decoy is the AN/SLQ-25A Nixie towed acoustic decoy from Argon ST. The ship's radar warning receiver, the CANEWS (Canadian Electronic Warfare System), SLQ-501, and the radar jammer, SLQ-505, were developed by Thorn and Lockheed Martin Canada.\n\nTwo Thales Nederland (formerly Signaal) SPG-503 (STIR 1.8) fire control radars are installed one on the roof of the bridge and one on the raised radar platform immediately forward of the helicopter hangar. The ship is also fitted with Raytheon AN/SPS-49(V)5 long-range active air search radar operating at C and D bands, Ericsson HC150 Sea Giraffe medium-range air and surface search radar operating at G and H bands, and Kelvin Hughes Type 1007 I-band navigation radar. The sonar suite includes the CANTASS Canadian Towed Array and GD-C AN/SQS-510 hull mounted sonar and incorporates an acoustic range prediction system. The sonobuoy processing system is the GD-C AN/UYS-503.\n\nThe \"Halifax\" class underwent a modernization program, known as the Halifax Class Modernization (HCM) program, in order to update the frigates' capabilities in combatting modern smaller, faster and more mobile threats. This involved upgrading the command and control, radar, communications, electronic warfare and armament systems. Further improvements, such as modifying the vessel to accommodate the new Sikorsky CH-148 Cyclone helicopter and satellite links will be done separately from the main Frigate Equipment Life Extension (FELEX) program.\n\nThe FELEX program comprised upgrading the combat systems integration to CMS330. The SPS-49 2D long range air search radar was replaced by the Thales Nederland SMART-S Mk 2 E/F-band 3D surveillance radar, and the two STIR 1.8 fire control radars were replaced by a pair of Saab Ceros 200 re-control radars. A Telephonics IFF Mode 5/S interrogator was installed and the Elisra NS9003A-V2HC ESM system replaced the SLQ-501 CANEWS. An IBM multi-link (Link 11, Link 16 and Link 22 enabled) datalink processing system was installed along with two Raytheon Anschütz Pathfinder Mk II navigation radars. Furthermore, Rheinmetall's Multi-Ammunition Soft kill System (MASS), known as MASS DUERAS was introduced to replace the Plessey Shield decoy system. The existing 57 mm Mk 2 guns were upgraded to the Mk 3 standard and the Harpoon missiles were improved to Block II levels, the Phalanx was upgraded to Block 1B and the obsolete Sea Sparrow system was replaced by the Evolved Sea Sparrow Missile.\n\n\"Charlottetown\"s keel was laid down on 18 December 1993 by Saint John Shipbuilding Ltd. at Saint John, New Brunswick. The vessel was launched on 1 October 1994 and commissioned into the Canadian Forces on 9 September 1995 at Charlottetown, carrying the hull classification symbol FFH 339.\n\nIn 1996, the frigate sailed to join NATO's Standing Naval Force Atlantic (STANAVFORLANT) and performed a series of naval exercises with Eastern European nations. In 1997, after becoming the first Canadian warship to pass beneath the Confederation Bridge, the vessel participated in US naval exercises. In 1998, \"Charlottetown\" performed another stint with STANAVFORLANT beginning in February, replacing sister ship .\n\nIn January 2001, \"Charlottetown\" sailed to the Persian Gulf to join the Carrier Battle Group, enforcing sanctions against Iraq. Following Canada's entry into the War in Afghanistan, \"Charlottetown\" was part of the initial naval task force sent to the Arabian Sea. Composed of , \"Charlottetown\" and , the task force sailed from Halifax, Nova Scotia on 17 October 2001 arrived in theatre on 20 November. \"Charlottetown\" was incorporated into a US amphibious ready group escorting United States Marine Corps troop transports near Pakistan. \"Charlottetown\" returned to Halifax on 27 April 2002.\n\nIn 2008 the frigate made significant narcotics interceptions. A dhow was caught loaded with four tonnes of hashish, close to Pakistani waters. The impounded vessel and crew were handed over to the Pakistan Coast Guard.\n\nOn 2 March 2011, \"Charlottetown\" left its home port of Halifax to join the NATO-led air-sea Operation Unified Protector during the 2011 Libyan civil war. \"Charlottetown\" worked in conjunction with an American carrier battle group led by the aircraft carrier . The stated mission was to help restore peace, evacuate Canadian citizens in Libya and provide humanitarian relief. On 18 March the Canadian government expanded the mission by announcing that HMCS \"Charlottetown\", in addition to six CF-18 fighter aircraft and two CC-177 transport aircraft, would constitute Canada's contribution to the enforcement of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973, aimed to protect Libya's civilian population (Operation Mobile).\n\nBy 21 March, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation reported that \"Charlottetown\" was patrolling the waters off north Libya. On 12 May, the frigate engaged several small boats involved in an attack on the port city of Misrata. Later that month on 30 May, the frigate came under fire from a dozen BM-21 rockets while patrolling off the Libyan coast, but no damage or injuries were reported. In July 2011, relieved \"Charlottetown\", which returned to Halifax.\n\n\"Charlottetown\" departed Halifax on 8 January 2012 to join the NATO-led mission Operation Active Endeavor. The mission was an anti-terrorism deployment to the Mediterranean Sea. At the time of departure Commander Wade Carter said to the media that there were no plans for \"Charlottetown\" to intervene in the conflict in Syria. The frigate was sent to relieve HMCS \"Vancouver\".\n\n\"Charlottetown\" transited the Suez Canal on 23 April 2012 to join Combined Task Force 150, conducting counter-terrorism operations in the Arabian Sea. She returned to Halifax on 11 September 2012. While on deployment, \"Charlottetown\" was the test ship for the unmanned aerial vehicle Boeing Insitu ScanEagle. During her service in the Arabian Sea one of the ScanEagle UAVs, which had been deployed from the ship, was lost due to engine failure. The navy later denied that it had been found by Iran, which had captured a ScanEagle drone around the same time. The vessel completed the FELEX modernisation in June 2014.\n\nOn 27 June 2016 \"Charlottetown\" sailed from Halifax to join NATO's Operation Reassurance in the Mediterranean Sea. While deployed overseas, twenty members of the crew contracted hand, foot, and mouth disease. In October, \"Charlottetown\" took part in the multinational naval exercise Joint Warrior off the coast of Scotland. The vessel returned to Canada on 13 January 2017 and conducted a full crew change.\n\n\"Charlottetown\" re-deployed to Europe on 8 August 2017, relieving sister ship . \"Charlottetown\" joined Standing NATO Maritime Group One (SNMG1) in support of Operation Reassurance. During the deployment, \"Charlottetown\" patrolled the Baltic Sea in August taking part in exercise Northern Coast, on completion she transited south taking part in the NATO naval exercise Brilliant Mariner in the Mediterranean Sea in September–October. \"Charlottletown\" returned to Halifax on 19 January 2018, having visited eleven ports during the deployment. In August, \"Charlottetown\" and departed Halifax to take part in Operation Nanook, travelling to Iqaluit, Nunavut and Nuuk, Greenland.\n\nFirst of Name\nCorvette, Revised Flower class\nCommissioned 13 December 1941\nSunk by enemy action 11 September 1942\n\nSecond of Name\nFrigate, River class\nCommissioned 28 April 1944\nPaid off 25 March 1947\n\nThird of Name\nThis is the current ship with the name Charlottetown\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082212", "title": "Alfonso Sastre", "text": "Alfonso Sastre\n\nAlfonso Sastre (born 20 February 1926 in Madrid) is a Spanish playwright, essayist, and critic associated with the Generation of '36 movement. He was an outspoken critic of censorship during the reign of General Francisco Franco. His most noteworthy plays include \"Death Squad\" (1953), \"The Gag\" (1954), \"Death Thrust\" (1960), and \"Tragicomedy of the Gypsy Celestina\" (1984).\n\nAlfonso Sastre was born into a typical middle-class family. He had three siblings (Aurora, Ana and Jose), and received a Catholic upbringing. He survived hunger and bombing during the Spanish Civil War and later received a degree from the Institute Cardinal Cisneros of Madrid. In 1943 he began a career as an aeronautical engineer, which he abandoned after fifteen days. By the end of the 1940s, he began producing existentialist works, either alone or with others in the \"New Art\" movement.\n\nIn 1950 he signed, along with Jose M. de Quinto, the Theater of Social Agitation Manifesto (TAS), and vehemently defended, through books and newspapers, the use of theater as a means of social agitation. In 1953 he completed his studies and had his first success in the theater, \"Escuadra Hacia la Muerte\", roughly translated as \"Death Squad\". It premiered on March 18, 1953, and was performed by the University Popular Theater (TPU). The play took place during the Third World War and dealt with a squad of five soldiers and their corporal, sent on a suicide mission as punishment for past transgressions. Only one performance was initially scheduled, but it found success and its run was extended. The play was censored by Franco's regime after its third performance, however, and was never performed again. On 17 September 1954 the play \"La Mordaza\" (\"The Gag\") premiered, dealing with themes of dictatorship and repression. That same year he wrote the revolutionary drama \"Tierra Roja\" (\"Red Earth\"), which was never allowed to be presented as it dealt with the subject of exploitation. Sastre continued to write plays such as \"La Sangre de Dios, Ana Kleiber\" (\"The Blood of God, Ana Kleiber\") and \"Guillermo Tell tiene los ojos tristes\" (\"William Tell Has Sad Eyes\") in 1955. In 1959 he wrote \"En la red\" (\"In the Net\") and \"La Cornada\" (The Thrust). In 1990 he wrote \"¿Dónde estás, Ulalume, dónde estás?\" (\"Where are you, Ulalume? Where are you?\").\n\nSastre married writer and revolutionary Eva Forest in 1955.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082215", "title": "HMCS Discovery", "text": "HMCS Discovery\n\nHMCS \"Discovery\" is a Royal Canadian Navy Reserve division and shore facility based in Vancouver, British Columbia. Created during World War II from the Vancouver Half Company of the Royal Naval Canadian Volunteer Reserve, \"Discovery\" was used for recruitment and training, and provided almost 8,000 personnel during the war. \"Discovery\" continued in its training role following the war, and also serves as headquarters for several Reserve and Cadet units.\n\nThe stone frigate takes its name from , the ship used by George Vancouver to chart most of North America's north-western coast. Originally based at the Stanley Park Barracks, in 1944 \"Discovery\" moved to its current location on Deadman's Island, in Coal Harbour, adjacent to Stanley Park.\n\nHer Majesty's Canadian Ship (HMCS) \"Discovery\" has a crew of about 140 officers and non-commissioned members (NCMs). The 2018 command team consists of: Commanding Officer, Commander Bryan Price; Executive Officer, Lieutenant-Commander Stuart Evans; Coxswain, Chief Petty Officer Second Class Susie Robinson.\n\n\"Discovery\" traces its history to the creation of the \"Number 2 (Vancouver) Company\" of the Royal Naval Canadian Volunteer Reserve at the beginning of the First World War. This small group was composed of 87 members of the Royal Vancouver Yacht Club who served and were demobilized at the end of the war. It was not until May 1924 that Lieutenant-Commander J.W. Hobbs was given permission to form the first \"Vancouver Half Company\" of the Naval Volunteer Reserve. Robert Louis Stevenson's schooner \"Casco\" was used for a time to train cadets in the 1920s.\n\nDuring the Second World War, the role of the reserves increased, reflecting the need to maintain sufficient manpower for the war effort. On 1 November 1941, the division was newly commissioned as HMCS \"Discovery\" and it moved into Stanley Park Barracks. In 1944, the unit was permitted to occupy Deadman Island in Stanley Park and turn this property into a training facility. During the Second World War, \"Discovery\" was one of the greatest sources of naval recruits in Canada, having enrolled 372 officers, 6,974 ratings and 650 Wrens (Women's Royal Canadian Naval Service – WRCNS). Of those, 15 were killed in action. At the end of the war, \"Discovery\" became the discharge centre for the whole of the British Columbia mainland, and 8,378 men and women were discharged through the base.\n\nHMCS \"Discovery\" continues to serve as a training facility, force generating personnel for Canadian Armed Forces (CAF) operations. \"Discovery\" personnel have been deployed to Korea, the Persian Gulf, Egypt, Bosnia and Afghanistan. The facility provided support for the 1997 APEC meeting in Vancouver. It was the Olympic Maritime Operations Centre for the 2010 Winter Olympics and conducted port security around the country. \n\nIt is also the site of the Western Region Diving Centre, coordinating the efforts of the various port inspection diving teams at Naval Reserve Divisions in Western Canada. The unit continues to serve as host and ambassador to dozens of foreign vessels visiting the Port of Vancouver. \n\nIn addition to the Naval Reserve, \"Discovery\" houses Royal Canadian Sea Cadet Corps Captain Vancouver and Navy League Cadet Corps Captain Rankin. \"Discovery\" is also the site of the Naval Museum of Vancouver and Vancouver Naval Veterans Association.\n\nIt was suggested by Sir Arthur W. Cochran, KCVO, Clarenceaux King of Arms that the badge of HMCS \"Discovery\" take the form of a rebus. It depicts a gold disc on top of a shake-fork that looks like the letter \"Y\"; a \"disc over \"Y\"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2082219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082219", "title": "GWR 5205 Class", "text": "GWR 5205 Class\n\nThe Great Western Railway (GWR) 5205 Class is a class of 2-8-0T steam locomotives.\n\nThey were designed for short-haul coal trips from coal mines to ports in South Wales. They were based on the 4200 Class which had been introduced by the Great Western Railway in 1910. The 5205 series were of the same general design and 70 of the 5205 class were built, 5205-5274. They retained the straight frames of the 4200s, but had outside steam pipes and 19\" diameter cylinders so were slightly more powerful than their predecessors.\n\nTwenty 5205s, 5255-5274 were converted to the 7200 Class in 1934/6. \n\nTwenty more locomotives to the same general design were built from 1930. This series had curved frames at the front with a raised section of frame over cylinders which were of the same size as the 5205 series. These were 5275 to 5294. These were all rebuilt as 7200 Class in 1934 without seeing significant use. Ten more, 5255-5264 were built in 1940, reusing numbers from 5205 class members which had also been rebuilt as 7200 Class.\n\nThree examples of the 5205 class have been preserved with two of them 5224 and 5239 having run in preservation. No members of the 5275 class have been preserved in their original form, but two survive in rebuilt form in the 7200 class.\n\nIn 2012, Hornby released models of the 5205 class in both BR black and GWR green. \n"}
{"id": "2082222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082222", "title": "HMCS Ottawa (FFH 341)", "text": "HMCS Ottawa (FFH 341)\n\nHMCS \"Ottawa\" is a Royal Canadian Navy . \"Ottawa\" is the twelfth and final ship of the \"Halifax\" class that were built as part of the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project. She is the fourth vessel to carry the name . The first three were named for the Ottawa River. This ship is the first named for Canada's national capital, the City of Ottawa. She is assigned to Maritime Forces Pacific (MARPAC) and is homeported at HMC Dockyard, CFB Esquimalt. \"Ottawa\" serves on MARPAC missions protecting Canada's sovereignty in the Pacific Ocean and enforcing Canadian laws in its territorial sea and Exclusive Economic Zone. \"Ottawa\" has also been deployed on missions throughout the Pacific and to the Indian Ocean; specifically the Persian Gulf and Arabian Sea on anti-terrorism operations.\n\nThe \"Halifax\"-class frigate design, emerging from the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project, was ordered by the Canadian Forces in 1977 as a replacement for the aging , , , and es of destroyer escorts, which were all tasked with anti-submarine warfare. \"Ottawa\" was ordered in December 1987 as part of the second batch of frigates. To reflect the changing long term strategy of the Navy during the 1980s and 1990s, the \"Halifax\"-class frigates was designed as a general purpose warship with particular focus on anti-submarine capabilities.\n\nAs built, the \"Halifax\"-class vessels displaced and were long overall and between perpendiculars with a beam of and a draught of . That made them slightly larger than the \"Iroquois\"-class destroyers. The vessels are propelled by two shafts with Escher Wyss controllable pitch propellers driven by a CODOG system of two General Electric LM2500 gas turbines, generating and one SEMT Pielstick 20 PA6 V 280 diesel engine, generating .\n\nThis gives the frigates a maximum speed of and a range of at while using their diesel engines. Using their gas turbines, the ships have a range of at . The \"Halifax\" class have a complement of 198 naval personnel of which 17 are officers and 17 aircrew of which 8 are officers.\n\nAs built the \"Halifax\" class vessels deployed the CH-124 Sea King helicopter, which acted in concert with shipboard sensors to seek out and destroy submarines at long distances from the ships. The ships have a helicopter deck fitted with a \"bear trap\" system allowing the launch and recovery of helicopters in up to sea state 6. The \"Halifax\" class also carries a close-in anti-submarine weapon in the form of the Mark 46 torpedo, launched from twin Mark 32 Mod 9 torpedo tubes in launcher compartments either side of the forward end of the helicopter hangar.\n\nAs built, the anti-shipping role is supported by the RGM-84 Harpoon Block 1C surface-to-surface missile, mounted in two quadruple launch tubes at the main deck level between the funnel and the helicopter hangar. For anti-aircraft self-defence the ships are armed with the Sea Sparrow vertical launch surface-to-air missile in two Mk 48 Mod 0 eight-cell launchers placed to port and starboard of the funnel. The vessels carry 16 missiles. A Raytheon/General Dynamics Phalanx Mark 15 Mod 21 Close-In Weapon System (CIWS) is mounted on top of the helicopter hangar for \"last-ditch\" defence against targets that evade the Sea Sparrow.\n\nAs built, the main gun on the forecastle is a /70 calibre Mark 2 gun from Bofors. The gun is capable of firing shells at a rate of 220 rounds per minute at a range of more than . The vessels also carry eight machine guns.\n\nAs built, the decoy system comprises Two BAE Systems Shield Mark 2 decoy launchers which fire chaff to and infrared rockets to in distraction, confusion and centroid seduction modes. The torpedo decoy is the AN/SLQ-25A Nixie towed acoustic decoy from Argon ST. The ship's radar warning receiver, the CANEWS (Canadian Electronic Warfare System), SLQ-501, and the radar jammer, SLQ-505, were developed by Thorn and Lockheed Martin Canada.\n\nTwo Thales Nederland (formerly Signaal) SPG-503 (STIR 1.8) fire control radars are installed one on the bridge-top and one on a raised radar platform on the forward end of the helicopter hangar. The ship is also fitted with Raytheon AN/SPS-49(V)5 long-range active air search radar operating in C and D bands, Ericsson HC150 Sea Giraffe medium-range air and surface search radar operating in G and H bands, and Kelvin Hughes Type 1007 I-band navigation radar. The sonar suite includes the CANTASS Canadian Towed Array and GD-C AN/SQS-510 hull mounted sonar and incorporates an acoustic range prediction system. The sonobuoy processing system is the GD-C AN/UYS-503.\n\nThe \"Halifax\" class underwent a modernization program, known as the Halifax Class Modernization (HCM) program, in order to update the frigates' capabilities in combatting modern smaller, faster and more mobile threats. This involved upgrading the command and control, radar, communications, electronic warfare and armament systems. Further improvements, such as modifying the vessel to accommodate the new Sikorsky CH-148 Cyclone helicopter and satellite links will be done separately from the main Frigate Equipment Life Extension (FELEX) program.\n\nThe FELEX program comprised upgrading the combat systems integration to CMS330. The SPS-49 2D long range air search radar was replaced by the Thales Nederland SMART-S Mk 2 E/F-band 3D surveillance radar, and the two STIR 1.8 fire control radars wre replaced by a pair of Saab Ceros 200 re-control radars. A Telephonics IFF Mode 5/S interrogator was installed and the Elisra NS9003A-V2HC ESM system replaced the SLQ-501 CANEWS. An IBM multi-link (Link 11, Link 16 and Link 22 enabled) datalink processing system was installed along with two Raytheon Anschütz Pathfinder Mk II navigation radars. Furthermore, Rheinmetall's Multi-Ammunition Soft kill System (MASS), known as MASS DUERAS was introduced to replace the Plessey Shield decoy system. The existing 57 mm Mk 2 guns were upgraded to the Mk 3 standard and the Harpoon missiles were improved to Block II levels, the Phalanx CIWS was upgraded to Block 1B and the obsolete Sea Sparrow system was replaced by the Evolved Sea Sparrow Missile.\n\n\"Ottawa\" was laid down on 29 April 1995 by Saint John Shipbuilding Ltd. at Saint John and launched on 31 May 1996. The frigate was commissioned on 28 September 1996 at Cornwall, Ontario and carries the hull classification symbol FFH 341. At the time of her commissioning, the commanding officer was Commander Gilles Goulet.\n\nAfter commissioning, \"Ottawa\", accompanied by the , transferred to the West Coast, departing Halifax, Nova Scotia on 16 November 1996. \"Ottawa\" deployed in June 1998 as part of the Carrier Battle Group in the Persian Gulf as part of the United Nations embargo on Iraq. This made the frigate the first Canadian vessel to completely integrate with an American battle group. In February 2002, the warship was assigned to Operation Apollo, the Canadian contribution to the War in Afghanistan, returning 17 August.\nOn 6 June 2011, \"Ottawa\" began a four-and-a-half-month training deployment and goodwill tour in the Pacific which included port visits to Australia, South Korea, Singapore, and Japan. \"Ottawa\" participated with the Royal Australian Navy and United States Seventh Fleet in the multi-lateral naval exercise \"Operation Talisman Saber 2011\" from 11 to 26 July 2011. \"Ottawa\" subsequently operated in the U.S. Navy's Carrier Strike Group Nine and participated in Fleet Week activities in San Diego, California, between 26 September and 30 September 2011. The warship returned to its home base of Esquimalt, British Columbia, on 13 October 2011.\n\nOn 12 December 2011, Commander Scott Van Will became the commanding officer of \"Ottawa\". \"Ottawa\" began working up for the next year of activity in January 2012. This began with directed workups and various training activities leading up to the larger RIMPAC sail in the summer. Training included new firefighting equipment use, Fleet Navigation Officer Training, and Air Detachment integration. There was also a stop in Port McNeill and Alert Bay to visit local schools.\n\nThe ship was scheduled to join the , and the for the Rim of the Pacific (RIMPAC) exercise. RIMPAC 2012 took place from 27 June to 3 August 2012. It is a biannual, multi-national maritime exercise held off the coast of Hawaii and is designed to improve interoperability and understanding between military forces from nations with an interest in the Pacific Rim, increasing stability in the region.\n\nIn June 2013, \"Ottawa\" received a new commanding officer, Commander Julian Barnard.\n\nIn July 2015, Sylvain Belair took command of HMCS \"Ottawa\". On 25 August 2016, \"Ottawa\" rescued the crew from the burning fishing vessel \"Sherry C\" which had been trying to tow the disabled fishing vessel \"Tryon\" back to port off the British Columbia Coast. No one was hurt in the event and the disabled fishing vessels were turned over to the Canadian Coast Guard when they arrived on the scene. \"Ottawa\" and sister ship sailed from Esquimalt on 6 March 2017 for six-month deployment visiting several nations around the Pacific, including Malaysia, India, China and Japan among others, returning on 8 August.\n\nIn June and July 2018, \"Ottawa\", along with sister ship and the supply ship , took part in RIMPAC 2018 around the Hawaiian Islands. In February 2019, \"Ottawa\" left Esquimalt for a month-long deployment training with the US Navy. On 6 August, \"Ottawa\" sailed for a six-month deployment to Asian-Pacific waters which included enforcing United Nations sanctions against North Korea. On 12 September 2019, \"Ottawa\" sailed through the Taiwan Strait while en route to the sanctions enforcement area. On 19 December, the frigate returned to Esquimalt after four months in the Asia-Pacific region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082224", "title": "Do Re Mi (Nirvana song)", "text": "Do Re Mi (Nirvana song)\n\n\"Do Re Mi\" is a song by American rock band Nirvana, written by vocalist and guitarist, Kurt Cobain. It first appeared on the band's rarities box set, \"With the Lights Out\", released in November 2004. A second version appears on the deluxe edition of \"\", released in November 2015.\n\nOriginally titled \"Dough, Ray and Me\" and then \"Me and my IV,\" the song officially released as \"Do Re Mi\" is one of the last-known Cobain compositions. Cobain's widow, Courtney Love, began mentioning the song in interviews shortly after Cobain's death in April 1994, naming it as one of his \"three completed, finished\" unrecorded songs, along with \"Opinion\" and \"Talk to Me.\" In a 1994 \"Rolling Stone\" interview, she told interviewer David Fricke:\n\n\"The third one, I can’t sing. It’s too fucking good. Every part of it is really catchy. He was calling it 'Dough, Ray and Me.' I thought it was a little corny. It was the last thing he wrote on our bed. The chorus was 'Dough, Ray and me/Dough, Ray and me,' and then it was 'Me and my IV.' I had asked him after [Cobain's suicide attempt in Rome, Italy] to freeze his sperm. So there’s this whole thing about freezing your uterus.\" \n\nIn 2002, Jim DeRogatis was allowed to listen to the song and other unreleased recordings in Love's living room, and described it as boasting \"a beautiful, Beatlesesque melody in the tradition of 'About a Girl'; a standout track from \"Bleach\". In addition to an endearingly rough guitar solo, its other outstanding feature is the moaned/whined/chanted repetition of \"Dough/Ray/Me, Do/Re/Mi\" over and over during a long and climactic finale\". In addition to the \"solo acoustic demo taped in [Cobain's] bedroom\" that he heard and described in the article, DeRogatis stated that a four track version, featuring Cobain on drums and vocals, Nirvana second guitarist Pat Smear on guitar, and Hole guitarist Eric Erlandson on bass, was also recorded.\n\nThe solo acoustic demo of the song was released, under the title \"Do Re Mi,\" on the band's rarities box set, \"With the Lights Out\", in November 2004. The same version was re-released on the band's compilation album \"\" in November 2005.\n\nA medley of previously unreleased demo versions, over 10 minutes long, appears on the deluxe edition of \"\", released in November 2015.\n\nTo date, no version of the song featuring the re-written \"Me and my IV\" lyrics has been released.\n\nDan Weiss of \"Spin\" described \"Do Re Mi\" as Cobain's \"best posthumously released song — take that 'You Know You're Right.'\" Collin Brennan of \"Consequence of Sound\" called it \"the finest Cobain composition that never saw the light of day during his lifetime\" and wrote, \"If Paul McCartney was born a few decades later and opted for dirty flannel instead of a moptop, this is the kind of tune he might have spawned.\"\n"}
{"id": "2082226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082226", "title": "Prince Kuni Asahiko", "text": "Prince Kuni Asahiko\n\nPrince Asahiko was born in Kyoto, the fourth son of Prince Fushimi Kuniye, the twentieth head of the Fushimi-no-miya, the oldest of the four branches of the imperial dynasty allowed to provide a successor to the Chrysanthemum throne should the main imperial house fail to produce an heir.\n\nThe future Prince Asahiko had several childhood appellations and acquired several more titles and names over the years. He was often known as \"Prince Asahiko\" (\"Asahiko Shinnō\") and \"Prince Nakagawa\" (\"Nakagawa-no-miya\").\n\nHe was a half-brother of Prince Yamashina Akira, Prince Higashifushimi Yorihito, Prince Kitashirakawa Yoshihisa, Prince Fushimi Sadanaru, and Prince Kan'in Kotohito.\n\nFrom an early age, Prince Asahiko was groomed to pursue a career as a Buddhist priest, the traditional career path for non-heir sons in the sesshu shinnōke during the Edo period. He was sent as an acolyte to Honnō-ji in 1831, but was transferred to Ichijō-in, an abbacy of Kōfuku-ji in Nara in 1836. In 1838, he was adopted by Emperor Ninkō. That same year, he succeeded an uncle as the abbot of Kōfuku-ji and formally entered the priesthood under the title \"Sonya Hoshinnō\". In 1852, Emperor Kōmei transferred him to Shōren-in, a major \"monzeki\" temple of the Tendai sect in Kyoto and he assumed the title \"Shōren no miya Son'yu.\" \n\nAsahiko was also known as \"Awata no miya\" or \"Awataguchi no miya\" after the location of that temple. During this period, the prince became an outspoken advocate of \" jōi \", the expulsion of all foreigners from Japan. His popularity among the \"Ishin Shishi\" (the pro-imperial court nationalist patriots) attracted the attention of Ii Naosuke, \"daimyō\" of Hikone and the \"Tairō\" during the final illness of \"Shōgun\" Tokugawa Iesada. When Ii launched the Ansei Purge, the prince was condemned to perpetual confinement at Shōkoku-ji and spent more than two years living in a tiny, dilapidated hut. This disrespectful treatment of the prince enraged the \"shishi\", who made his release one of their principal objectives.\n\nIn 1862, the prince was allowed to return to secular status and received the title \"Nakagawa no miya.\" This was part of the amnesty declared in honor of the marriage of \"Shōgun\" Tokugawa Iemochi, to Kazu-no-miya, the Emperor Kōmei's half-sister. He returned to Kyoto, became a close advisor of the emperor, and became known by yet another title, \"Kaya-no-miya\" at this time. In September 1863, Kōmei bestowed on him the name \"Asahiko\" and the status of a prince of the blood (\"shinnō\"), and named him \"Danjō no in\", a high ranking court position open only to princes of the blood. Prince Asahiko continued in this post following the death of Kōmei and the ascension of the Meiji emperor.\n\nAfter the Meiji Restoration, Prince Asahiko's political enemies did not relent. In 1868, he was deprived of his status as a prince of the blood and exiled to Hiroshima on trumped-up charges of plotting to overthrow the new government. Emperor Meiji pardoned him in February 1872, restoring his princely status and allowing him to start a new collateral branch of the imperial dynasty, the \"Kuni-no-miya\". He spent the last two decades of his life as the lord custodian priest (\"saishu\") of the Shinto Grand Shrine of Ise. Prince Kuni Asahiko died in Tokyo in 1891.\n\nThree of Prince Asahiko's sons, Prince Kaya Kuninori, Prince Kuni Taka, and Prince Nashimoto Morimasa, successively served as lord custodian priests of the Ise Shrine between 1891 and 1947. Prince Asahiko's son Prince Kuni Kuniyoshi was the father of Princess Nagako of Kuni, who married the future Emperor Shōwa and became the mother of the recent emperor Akihito, who abdicated in favor for his son, Naruhito present day an emperor\n\nPrince Kuni Asahiko was the father of at least eighteen children (nine sons and nine daughters) by at least five different court ladies: (1) Izumitei Shizue, second daughter of Izumitei Shun'eki, a priest at Kamo Shrine, Kyoto, (2) Izumi Makiko, (3) Harada Mitsue, (4) Tarao Utako, and (5) Tsunoda Sugako.\n\nEmperor Meiji directed Prince Asahiko's second, eighth, and ninth sons to found new collateral branches of the imperial family with the hereditary rank of a minor prince of the blood (\"ōke\"): Kaya-no-miya, Asaka-no-miya, and Higashikuni-no-miya. Prince Asakiko's seventh son succeeded to the head of the existing Nashimoto-no-miya house. His fourth born son succeeded him as the second head of the Kuni-no-miya.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082230", "title": "George Warren (prospector)", "text": "George Warren (prospector)\n\nGeorge Warren (1835 - 1893) worked as a prospector in the Tombstone and Bisbee, Arizona region during the late 19th century. He is credited with having located the body of copper ore, which later was known as the Copper Queen Mine, one of Arizona's most productive copper mines. Warren drank too much and bet his interest in the mine on a foot race against a horse and lost. \nIn 1880 pioneer photographer C. S. Fly often visited Bisbee on miners' paydays and he took a photo of Warren. The image was used as a model for the miner posing with long-handled spade on the Seal of Arizona. His pauper's grave, originally only marked by a wooden plank saying \"G.W. 24\" in the Bisbee-Lowell Evergreen Cemetery was later commemorated by a large monument erected in his honor.\n\nGeorge's mother died when he was very young and he lived with a maiden aunt until he was 10, when he was sent to New Mexico to join his father, who was a government teamster and later a herder. While herding horses, the Warrens were attacked by Apaches. George was wounded and his father was killed. George was held captive for 18 months until prospectors saw the white boy among the Indians and traded 15-20 pounds of sugar for Warren's freedom. Warren remained with these men for some time and learning about prospecting.\n\nThe presence of copper ore in the Mule Mountains of southeast Arizona may have been known as early as 1876, but the first mining claim was filed on August 2, 1877. In 1877, a U.S. Cavalry patrol from Fort Bowie was tracking Apache Indians and camped at what is today known as Iron Springs. The men didn't like the quality of the water and they sent Scout Jack Dunn to look for better quality water. During his search he found a spring along a very large cliff of limestone, known today as Castle Rock, and on his return an outcrop containing lead carbonate, which was known to carry silver, in a gorge later known as Tombstone Canyon. Dunn told his commanding officer Lt. John Rucker and a packer named Ted Byrne of his discovery. They named the find the \"Rucker\" and planned to file a claim, but were delayed when their patrol was ordered to resume pursuit of a band of Apache warriors. Before departing Fort Bowie, they met a 42-year old George Warren and persuaded him to file a claim for them with the agreement that Warren would name Dunn in all notices of locations for mining claims that he located. They provided him with a grubstake, provisions, and a map to mining claim site.\n\nWarren didn't keep his agreement with Dunn. On his way to the claims office, Warren stopped in a saloon, got drunk, and gambled away the grubstake given him by Dunn and the others. He went to Fort Huachuca and recruited additional backers from Tombstone. On September 27, 1877, 56 days after Dunn located the Rucker Mine, Warren filed a claim for the Mercy Mine up Mule Pass Canyon from Iron Spring. Over the next six months his name is mentioned either as the locator or witness in several other claims in the Tombstone Canyon and Mule Mountains and established what became known as the Warren Mining District. He held a one-ninth interest in the new Copper Queen mine.\n\nGeorge had a reputation as a drunk and got into fights. He was shot through the neck when fighting a duel and was shot in the arm and a leg on another occasion. The first wagon and team was dispatched into the mining region to bring a barrel of whisky to Warren.\n\nWhile drinking with acquaintances in Charleston, the milling town for Tombstone, he argued with his friend George W. Atkins about the agility and speed of men versus horses. Warren claimed he could outrun a man on a horse over a distance of . Atkins took the bet. If Atkins beat Warren, Atkins was to receive Warren's interest in the Copper Queen; if Warren beat Atkins, Warren was to receive Atkins's horse. A fair portion of the few hundred citizens of Charleston turned out on July 3, 1880 to watch the race. Warren placed a stake in the ground at , believing he could beat the horse on the corner, but lost the bet and his one-ninth interest in the Copper Queen Mine, later estimated to be worth US$20,000,000 (or about $ today).\n\nEntrepreneurs Edward Reilly and Levi Zeckendorf bought an option to purchase the mine in 1880 for US$20,000. When the ore assayed at 22% copper, Reilly became enthusiastic about the mine's possibilities. He bought out others' interest in the claims in April, 1880, and went to San Francisco to see if he could market his option on the claims. Reilly persuaded engineers DeWitt Bisbee, William H. Martin, and John Ballard in San Francisco to visit the mine, and they were pleased with the prospects. On May 12, 1880, Martin and Ballard agreed to furnish the funds to mine and smelt the ore and received seven-tenths interest in the Copper Queen mine and two-thirds interest in the Copper King. Reilly retained the remainder.\n\nJames Douglas, who had invented new methods of smelting copper, learned of the Warren mining district early on. He was sent by the Phelps Dodge company of Pennsylvania to examine potential copper mines. During his research, Douglas concluded the risk was great but persuaded the company they should go forward. Offered the choice of a flat fee or a 10% interest in the property for his services, he chose the latter, a decision that subsequently made him a fortune. The company bought the Atlanta Mine and poured over $76,000 (or about $ today) into exploration before they found the ore body. When the claims and ore bodies in the area would likely overlap, leading to potential costly litigation, they merged with their neighbor the Copper Queen mine, forming the Copper Queen Consolidated Mining Company in 1885.\nReilly raised $80,000 capital from Dewitt Bisbee to begin production. The surface pockets of cerussite were soon exhausted, but the owners found that the ore body ran 23% copper, with silver and gold as byproducts. Most mines of that era could profitably mine ore containing 3% or 4% copper, so the Copper Queen ore body was considered extraordinarily high grade. The surface oxide ore was exhausted after three or four years, but miners explored deeper and eventually found even larger ore bodies.\n\nIn May 1881, G.W. Atkins asked Cochise County Court Probate Judge J.H. Lucas to rule that Warren was insane, and George Praidham was appointed as Warren's guardian with the charge to sell his assets.\n\nOn June 1, 1881, Warren's interest in three mines—a one-twelfth interest in the Mammoth Mine, a one-third interest in the Safford Mine, and his one-third interest in the Crescent Mine—were sold at public auction for US$923. He was released soon after his property was sold. He was declared sane by the Cochise County Probate Court on 11/13/1883. He then went into Mexico where in 1885 he discovered a mining claim in Mexico and to gain legal title he became a Mexican citizen. He sold himself into peonage to pay off a debt of US$40. He worked as an interpreter for the district judge in Oposura, Mexico, for twenty-five pesos a day. When Judge G.H. Berry learned of his situation, he paid Warren's debt and Warren returned to Bisbee. The mining company provided him a small pension, and Warren worked as a blacksmith and tool dresser, but he finally resorted to the life of a \"rounder\" as the miners called it. He swept floors or cleaned the cuspidors in exchange for a drink of whisky.\n\nSources for Warren's death date differ. The plaque on his cemetery monument at the Bisbee-Lowell Evergreen Cemetery lists the date of death as 1892. A Cochise County death certificate for a George Warren states he died of pneumonia and heart failure on February 13, 1893. An \"Arizona Republic\" article on September 15, 1897 stated Warren had died \"three years ago.\" Penniless at the time of his death, Warren was buried in a pauper's grave and was practically forgotten for a number of years.\n\nOriginally buried in a pauper's grave in Bisbee-Lowell Evergreen Cemetery under a small, wooden grave marker, the Bisbee Elk's Lodge launched a campaign in 1914 to erect a monument over his grave. When his grave was located, his body was moved to a more prominent location and a large monument was erected. A plaque on the monument depicts C.S. Fly's image of him and the words,\" George Warren Born unknown Died 1892 Poor in Purse Rich in Friends.\" C.S. Fly's photograph of Warren was the model for the miner incorporated into the Arizona State Seal, and the mining district around Bisbee was named for him. A suburb planned and built near Bisbee and Warren Ballpark in Bisbee were named after Warren.\n"}
{"id": "2082232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082232", "title": "Holy Name of Mary Catholic Secondary School", "text": "Holy Name of Mary Catholic Secondary School\n\nHoly Name of Mary Catholic Secondary School is an all-girls regional high school in Brampton, Ontario, Canada founded by the Felician Sisters. Originally located in Mississauga, it relocated to Brampton in 2008.\n\nHoly Name of Mary Catholic Secondary School is the only single-sex school in the Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board.\n\nBoth Holy Name of Mary Catholic Secondary School and Holy Name of Mary College School can trace their origin to the original Holy Name of Mary School (HNM) founded September 7, 1964, by the Felician Sisters. Founded as a private school on Mississauga Road, the Felician Sisters entered into an agreement with the Dufferin-Peel Separate School Board in 1972 making Grades 9 and 10 publicly funded. In 1984, the Ontario government announced full funding for Catholic high schools, and by 1987 Holy Name was funded up to Grade 13.\n\nIn a document dated January 3, 2005, the Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board released a planning committee report on the future of the school including options: (1) relocate the students to the vacant Loyala facility. (2) purchase the school from the Sisters (3) open a single gender boys' school (4) withdraw from single-sex school education.\n\nThe Planning Committee recommended option 1. This recommendation included opening \"a consultation process with the Felician Sisters, staff, parents, and students to obtain feedback on all motions approved.\"\n\nA June 2007 Star article stated, \"Two years ago, the board tried to move the school to another, less attractive location, but parents resisted. Then, the provincial supervisor – who runs the board – axed busing. Parents, however, rallied and arranged for busing on their own. There are more than 600 kids on the bus, out of the 875 at the school, said Charlene Amlinger, chair of the parent council. She said the lack of board-funded transportation may have been the \"final straw\" for the sisters.\" \"The plight of Holy Name for each year for the last 10 years, whether transportation or relocation – it's been arduous.\"\n\nIn a Toronto Star article published in 2007, Holy Name of Mary School was considered one of the finest schools in Ontario. That same year, two years after the submission of the Planning Committee's report, the Felician Sisters terminated the lease with the Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board for the Mississauga Road building effective September 2008. The Felician Sisters made this decision, \"because they didn’t believe the board was committed to maintaining an all-girls school, said spokesperson Sr. Andrea Rita Marie Kowalczyk.\" \"We’ve been committed to this (all-girls education) for over 40 years. We weren’t going to drop the ball now,\" said Kowalczyk. Where the provincially funded board would only commit to a five-year lease with a 15-month opt out clause, the sisters now have a 20-year lease with an option for either party to terminate the lease after five years.\n\nDespite the length of time between the board's decision and the Felician Sisters termination of the lease, staff and students at the school seemed ill-prepared for the reality of moving. \"When the Felician Sisters’ decision regarding the future of Holy Name was announced last Friday, a shockwave went through the school. It was as if someone had died. Staff and students found themselves at a loss for words and, instead, resorted to tears and hugs.\" A student, Stephanie Paddley stated, \"I pray the Board will recognize what a gem Holy Name is, and make an effort to preserve what we have, even if it means switching buildings, and getting a new name.\"\n\nIn 2007 the separate board committed itself to keeping the original Holy Name community open as a publicly funded girls' school and, although the vacated Loyola facility was mentioned in the report, decided to use a vacant school site in Brampton as its permanent new home. Holy Name of Mary Catholic Secondary School welcomed students to the Glenvale Boulevard location in September 2008. The school's re-dedication of its new building in Brampton was held on February 11, 2009. The guests included Felician Sisters, Trustees, Board Staff, teachers, alumni, former Principals, clergy and Archbishop Thomas Christopher Collins. The ceremony included a papal blessing for the school.\n\nThe influence of the Felicians (Congregation of the Sisters of St. Felix of Cantalice) remains essential to the charism of the school. The last Felician Sister to teach in the school was in 1998, but the order continues to influence the lives of staff and students.\n\nThe school implemented a semester system in September, 2011. Until the end of the 2010/2011 school year, the school followed a non-semester system. The change met considerable opposition from school administration, teachers, parents, and students. The issue of changing from a non-semestered system had been raised as early as May 2004. From the Regular Board Meeting minutes dated January 26, 2010, \"While some trustees spoke in favour of keeping the non-semester, or \"term\", others expressed concerns around meeting the needs of the most vulnerable students.\" \"Staff has a mandate and moral obligation to improve student achievement and to reduce the gap in student achievement wherever those students might be. Program delivery is an issue because we have students having difficult time carrying eight courses throughout one year.\"\n\nMany students achieve honour roll status. Approximately 31% of students were listed on the school honour roll as of December 2010.\n\nThe Fraser Institute's 2011/2012 report on Holy Name of Mary Secondary School gave it an overall grade of 9.1/10, ranking it at 5 of 725 secondary schools in Ontario. Its rating in the most recent five years is 8.1/10, ranked 45 out of 691. Ratings were 8.5 in 2007; 8.8 in 2008; 6.0 in 2009; 7.6 in 2010; and 9.1 in 2011.\n\nIt ranks first amongst secondary schools in Brampton.\n\n97% of Grade 9 Academic math students were at Level 3 or 4, an improvement of 11% from the previous year. 66% of Grade 9 Applied math students were at Level 3 or 4, and improvement of 21% from the previous year. 96% of Grade 10 students were successful in the OSSLT, an improvement of 3% from the previous year. These were the best results of any school in the Dufferin-Peel Catholic School Board.\n\n\nThe school offers extracurricular activities and sports including a student-run newspaper (The Royal Reporter), Math Club, DECA Business Club, Model United Nations, Philosophy Club, Reading Club, Duke of Edinburgh's Award, Green Team, a Harry Potter Club, Liturgy Committee, Social Justice Club, Rosary Group, and a Student Council.\n\nHoly Name of Mary Secondary School holds semi-annual pep rallies which are led by the student council. During pep rallies, students and staff are encouraged to sport their \"grade colour\" (senior students are traditionally assigned red and the staff, blue) and to participate wholeheartedly in school cheers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082234", "title": "HMCS Regina (FFH 334)", "text": "HMCS Regina (FFH 334)\n\nHMCS \"Regina\" is a that has served in the Canadian Forces and Royal Canadian Navy since 1993. \"Regina\" is the fifth vessel in her class which is the name for the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project. She is the second vessel to carry the designation . She is assigned to Maritime Forces Pacific (MARPAC) and is homeported at CFB Esquimalt.\n\nThe \"Halifax\"-class frigate design of which \"Regina\" belongs, was ordered by the Canadian Forces in 1977 as a replacement for the aging , , , and es of destroyer escorts , which were all tasked with anti-submarine warfare. In July 1983, the federal government approved the budget for the design and construction of the first batch of six new frigates of which \"Regina\" was a part, out of twelve that were eventually built. To reflect the changing long term strategy of the Navy during the 1980s and 1990s, the \"Halifax\"-class frigates was designed as a general purpose warship with particular focus on anti-submarine capabilities.\n\nAs built, the \"Halifax\"-class vessels displaced and were long overall and between perpendiculars with a beam of and a draught of . That made them slightly larger than the \"Iroquois\"-class destroyers. The vessels are propelled by two shafts with Escher Wyss controllable pitch propellers driven by a CODOG system of two General Electric LM2500 gas turbines, generating and one SEMT Pielstick 20 PA6 V 280 diesel engine, generating .\n\nThis gives the frigates a maximum speed of and a range of at while using their diesel engines. Using their gas turbines, the ships have a range of at . The \"Halifax\" class have a complement of 198 naval personnel of which 17 are officers and 17 aircrew of which 8 are officers.\n\nAs built the \"Halifax\"-class vessels deployed the CH-124 Sea King helicopter, which acted in concert with shipboard sensors to seek out and destroy submarines at long distances from the ships. The ships have a helicopter deck fitted with a \"bear trap\" system allowing the launch and recovery of helicopters in up to sea state 6. The \"Halifax\" class also carries a close-in anti-submarine weapon in the form of the Mark 46 torpedo, launched from twin Mark 32 Mod 9 torpedo tubes in launcher compartments either side of the forward end of the helicopter hangar.\n\nAs built, the anti-shipping role is supported by the RGM-84 Harpoon Block 1C surface-to-surface missile, mounted in two quadruple launch tubes at the main deck level between the funnel and the helicopter hangar. For anti-aircraft self-defence the ships are armed with the Sea Sparrow vertical launch surface-to-air missile in two Mk 48 Mod 0 eight-cell launchers placed to port and starboard of the funnel. The vessels carry 16 missiles. A Raytheon/General Dynamics Phalanx Mark 15 Mod 21 Close-In Weapon System (CIWS) is mounted on top of the helicopter hangar for \"last-ditch\" defence against targets that evade the Sea Sparrow.\n\nAs built, the main gun on the forecastle is a /70 calibre Mark 2 gun from Bofors. The gun is capable of firing shells at a rate of 220 rounds per minute at a range of more than .\n\nAs built, the decoy system comprises Two BAE Systems Shield Mark 2 decoy launchers which fire chaff to and infrared rockets to in distraction, confusion and centroid seduction modes. The torpedo decoy is the AN/SLQ-25A Nixie towed acoustic decoy from Argon ST. The ship's radar warning receiver, the CANEWS (Canadian Electronic Warfare System), SLQ-501, and the radar jammer, SLQ-505, were developed by Thorn and Lockheed Martin Canada.\n\nTwo Thales Nederland (formerly Signaal) SPG-503 (STIR 1.8) fire control radars are installed one on the roof of the bridge and one on the raised radar platform immediately forward of the helicopter hangar. The ship is also fitted with Raytheon AN/SPS-49(V)5 long-range active air search radar operating at C and D bands, Ericsson HC150 Sea Giraffe medium-range air and surface search radar operating at G and H bands, and Kelvin Hughes Type 1007 I-band navigation radar. The sonar suite includes the CANTASS Canadian Towed Array and GD-C AN/SQS-510 hull mounted sonar and incorporates an acoustic range prediction system. The sonobuoy processing system is the GD-C AN/UYS-503.\n\nThe \"Halifax\" class underwent a modernization program, known as the Halifax Class Modernization (HCM) program, in order to update the frigates' capabilities in combatting modern smaller, faster and more mobile threats. This involved upgrading the command and control, radar, communications, electronic warfare and armament systems. Further improvements, such as modifying the vessel to accommodate the new Sikorsky CH-148 Cyclone helicopter and satellite links will be done separately from the main Frigate Equipment Life Extension (FELEX) program.\n\nThe FELEX program comprised upgrading the combat systems integration to CMS330. The SPS-49 2D long range air search radar was replaced by the Thales Nederland SMART-S Mk 2 E/F-band 3D surveillance radar, and the two STIR 1.8 fire control radars wre replaced by a pair of Saab Ceros 200 re-control radars. A Telephonics IFF Mode 5/S interrogator was installed and the Elisra NS9003A-V2HC ESM system replaced the SLQ-501 CANEWS. An IBM multi-link (Link 11, Link 16 and Link 22 enabled) datalink processing system was installed along with two Raytheon Anschütz Pathfinder Mk II navigation radars. Furthermore, Rheinmetall's Multi-Ammunition Soft kill System (MASS), known as MASS DUERAS was introduced to replace the Plessey Shield decoy system. The existing 57 mm Mk 2 guns were upgraded to the Mk 3 standard and the Harpoon missiles were improved to Block II levels, the Phalanx was upgraded to Block 1B and the obsolete Sea Sparrow system was replaced by the Evolved Sea Sparrow Missile.\n\n\"Regina\" was laid down on 6 October 1989 by Marine Industries at Sorel, Quebec and launched on 25 October 1991. The ship was provisionally accepted on 2 March 1994, and following sea trials, sailed to CFB Esquimalt. The frigate was commissioned into the Canadian Forces there on 30 September 1994 and carries the hull classification symbol FFH 334.\n\nIn May 1995, with sister ship , \"Regina\" sailed to Southeast Asia for naval exercises. The following year in March, this time with the auxiliary ship , the destroyer and frigate , \"Regina\" returned to the Eastern Pacific for naval exercises. During this trip the ship visited Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, the first North American warship to do so since the Vietnam War. On the return trip, the task group participated in the RIMPAC naval exercise off the coast of Hawaii. In February 1997, the ship sailed to join a United States Navy carrier battle group in the Persian Gulf to enforce trade sanctions on Iraq. The ship returned to the Persian Gulf from June to December 1999 with the carrier battle group to enforce sanctions again. In February 2003, \"Regina\" deployed to the Indian Ocean as part of Operation Apollo in support of the War in Afghanistan. The ship remained in theatre until May.\n\n\"Regina\" sailed from Esquimalt on 3 July 2012 to the Arabian Sea and joined Combined Task Force 150 on 21 August. She returned home on 14 March 2013.\n\nIn 2013, \"Regina\" visited Manila, Philippines for a goodwill visit to the Philippines. In 2014 \"Regina\" operated off the coast of Somalia as part of Operation Artemis. On 30 April 2014 the Canadian government announced that \"Regina\" would be dispatched to assist in NATO operations, concerning the crisis in the Ukraine. The frigate began her FELEX refit in May 2015 and returned to service on 29 April 2016 at CFB Esquimalt.\n\nOn 6 February 2019, \"Regina\" and departed Esquimalt for Pacific operations with other nations' navies. On 18 February, a Cyclone helicopter from \"Regina\" was attempting to land on \"Asterix\" and was damaged in the operation. \"Regina\", \"Asterix\" and the damaged Cyclone were redirected to Guam to undergo inspection. No damage was reported to \"Asterix\", and following air tests of the repaired Cyclone, all three ships resumed their deployment. In March 2019, \"Regina\" and \"Asterix\" parted ways, with \"Regina\" deployed to the Middle East as part of Operation Artemis beginning on 26 March. In the Indian Ocean, \"Regina\" intercepted a dhow and boarded it, seizing of hashish in 119 bags. As the vessel was international waters, the dhow and its crew were released. The hashish was destroyed. The frigate intercepted a second vessel, this time an unregistered fishing vessel, and seized of hashish in 150 bags. A third seizure took place on 24 April, with of hashish and of heroin netted from a stateless fishing vessel in international waters off Oman and Yemen. The frigate then took part in exercises with a French task force including the , followed up by a fourth seizure of of hashish on 3 May. On 18 June \"Regina\" transited the Taiwan Strait as part of a freedom of navigation mission. During the transit alongside \"Asterix\", the ship was \"buzzed\" by two Chinese Sukhoi Su-30 fighter aircraft when they flew at a height of within of the frigate. The vessel returned to Canada on 19 August 2019 having participated in enforcing United Nations sanctions on North Korea and participating in Operation Talisman Sabre 19, a biennial naval exercise with the United States and Australian navies.\n\nIn November 2019, \"Regina\" received a new \"dazzle paint job\" in 1944 colours. Also known as disruptive paint, the scheme pays homage to the lessons learned defending Allied ships against German U-boat attack in World War II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082235", "title": "Richard Jenrette", "text": "Richard Jenrette\n\nRichard Hampton Jenrette (April 5, 1929 – April 22, 2018) was an American businessman who was one of the founders of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette (DLJ).\n\nJenrette was born on April 5, 1929, in Raleigh, North Carolina and \"grew up in a comfortable Tudor\" home. He was the son of Joseph Jenrette, a successful local insurance salesman, and Emma Jenrette, an avid gardener who lived to 101. He attended Needham B. Broughton High School.\n\nJenrette graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (BA 1951) and the Harvard Business School (MBA 1957).\n\nFollowing his graduation from UNC, Jenrette was employed at New England Life Insurance Co. from 1951 to 1953. After obtaining his MBA from Harvard in 1957, he began working at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. until 1959.\n\nIn 1959, he founded Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette (\"DLJ\") with William H. Donaldson, who subsequently became chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and Dan Lufkin. Under Jenrette's direction, the firm concentrated on in-depth analysis, creating a new industry standard for institutional investing. Jenrette was also instrumental in taking DLJ public in 1970, making it the first publicly traded investment firm in the United States.\n\nTaking the helm of DLJ in 1973, he successfully shepherded the firm through a recession and, later, a 1985 sale to worldwide insurance leader, The Equitable Companies Inc., where he became the chief investment officer. Jenrette later served as chairman and CEO from April 1990, until his retirement in 1996.\n\nIn addition to his career at DLC and Equitable, he also served on the Harvard University board of overseers (and a director of the associates of the Harvard Business School), was a trustee of The Duke Endowment, and chairman of the Classical American Homes Preservation Trust.\n\nJenrette was a bachelor who did not marry, but had a partner, William L. Thompson, who died in 2013.\n\nJenrette died of cancer on April 22, 2018, aged 89, in Charleston, South Carolina. According to the website of his foundation, the Classical American\nHomes Preservation Trust, he left a paper in his desk listing his 24 rules of life for success.\n\nBeginning in the 1960s, Jenrette bought and restored a series of significant historic American houses, including Robert William Roper House in Charleston, South Carolina; Millford Plantation in South Carolina; Ayr Mount in North Carolina; Estate Cane Garden on St. Croix; the George F. Baker House in New York City; and Edgewater in Barrytown, New York (bought from author Gore Vidal in 1969).\n\nJenrette commissioned new buildings, including a gate house (1997) and poolhouse (1998) at Edgewater, designed by the architect Michael Dwyer.\n\n\nJenrette's books include \"Jenrette: The Contrarian Manager\", a memoir of his career on Wall Street, and \"Adventures With Old Houses\", a memoir of his experiences restoring several historic buildings.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082237", "title": "HMCS St. John's", "text": "HMCS St. John's\n\nHMCS \"St. John's\" is a that has served in the Canadian Forces and the Royal Canadian Navy since her commissioning in 1996. She is the eleventh of twelve ships in her class which is based on the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project. \"St. John's\" is named after the city of St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, a port city associated with Canadian naval history and heritage, and is the first ship in the Royal Canadian Navy to bear the name. \"St. John's\" serves on Canadian Armed Forces missions protecting Canada's sovereignty in the Atlantic Ocean and enforcing Canadian laws in its territorial sea and exclusive economic zone. \"St. John's\" has been deployed on missions throughout the Atlantic Ocean, to the Indian Ocean; specifically the Persian Gulf and Arabian Sea on anti-terrorism operations, to the north as far as Grise Fiord and to the Caribbean where she played a role in helping to stop the flow of illicit drugs to North America. She is assigned to Maritime Forces Atlantic (MARLANT) and her homeport is in Halifax, Nova Scotia.\n\nThe \"Halifax\"-class frigate design, emerging from the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project, was ordered by the Canadian Forces in 1977 as a replacement for the aging , , , and es of destroyer escorts, which were all tasked with anti-submarine warfare. \"St. John's\" was ordered in December 1987 as part of the second batch of frigates. To reflect the changing long term strategy of the Navy during the 1980s and 1990s, the \"Halifax\"-class frigates was designed as a general purpose warship with particular focus on anti-submarine capabilities.\n\nAs built, the \"Halifax\"-class vessels displaced and were long overall and between perpendiculars with a beam of and a draught of . That made them slightly larger than the \"Iroquois\"-class destroyers. The vessels are propelled by two shafts with Escher Wyss controllable pitch propellers driven by a CODOG system of two General Electric LM2500 gas turbines, generating and one SEMT Pielstick 20 PA6 V 280 diesel engine, generating .\n\nThis gives the frigates a maximum speed of and a range of at while using their diesel engines. Using their gas turbines, the ships have a range of at . The \"Halifax\" class have a complement of 198 naval personnel of which 17 are officers and 17 aircrew of which 8 are officers.\n\nAs built the \"Halifax\"-class vessels deployed the CH-124 Sea King helicopter, which acted in concert with shipboard sensors to seek out and destroy submarines at long distances from the ships. The ships have a helicopter deck fitted with a \"bear trap\" system allowing the launch and recovery of helicopters in up to sea state 6. The \"Halifax\" class also carries a close-in anti-submarine weapon in the form of the Mark 46 torpedo, launched from twin Mark 32 Mod 9 torpedo tubes in launcher compartments either side of the forward end of the helicopter hangar.\n\nAs built, the anti-shipping role is supported by the RGM-84 Harpoon Block 1C surface-to-surface missile, mounted in two quadruple launch tubes at the main deck level between the funnel and the helicopter hangar. For anti-aircraft self-defence the ships are armed with the Sea Sparrow vertical launch surface-to-air missile in two Mk 48 Mod 0 eight-cell launchers placed to port and starboard of the funnel. The vessels carry 16 missiles. A Raytheon/General Dynamics Phalanx Mark 15 Mod 21 Close-In Weapon System (CIWS) is mounted on top of the helicopter hangar for \"last-ditch\" defence against targets that evade the Sea Sparrow.\n\nAs built, the main gun on the forecastle is a /70 calibre Mark 2 gun from Bofors. The gun is capable of firing shells at a rate of 220 rounds per minute at a range of more than . The vessels also carry eight machine guns.\n\nAs built, the decoy system comprises Two BAE Systems Shield Mark 2 decoy launchers which fire chaff to and infrared rockets to in distraction, confusion and centroid seduction modes. The torpedo decoy is the AN/SLQ-25A Nixie towed acoustic decoy from Argon ST. The ship's radar warning receiver, the CANEWS (Canadian Electronic Warfare System), SLQ-501, and the radar jammer, SLQ-505, were developed by Thorn and Lockheed Martin Canada.\n\nTwo Thales Nederland (formerly Signaal) SPG-503 (STIR 1.8) fire control radars are installed one on the roof of the bridge and one on the raised radar platform immediately forward of the helicopter hangar. The ship is also fitted with Raytheon AN/SPS-49(V)5 long-range active air search radar operating at C and D bands, Ericsson HC150 Sea Giraffe medium-range air and surface search radar operating at G and H bands, and Kelvin Hughes Type 1007 I-band navigation radar. The sonar suite includes the CANTASS Canadian Towed Array and GD-C AN/SQS-510 hull mounted sonar and incorporates an acoustic range prediction system. The sonobuoy processing system is the GD-C AN/UYS-503.\n\nThe \"Halifax\" class underwent a modernization program, known as the Halifax Class Modernization (HCM) program, in order to update the frigates' capabilities in combating modern smaller, faster and more mobile threats. This involved upgrading the command and control, radar, communications, electronic warfare and armament systems. Further improvements, such as modifying the vessel to accommodate the new Sikorsky CH-148 Cyclone helicopter and satellite links will be done separately from the main Frigate Equipment Life Extension (FELEX) program.\n\nThe FELEX program comprised upgrading the combat systems integration to CMS330. The SPS-49 2D long range air search radar was replaced by the Thales Nederland SMART-S Mk 2 E/F-band 3D surveillance radar, and the two STIR 1.8 fire control radars wre replaced by a pair of Saab Ceros 200 re-control radars. A Telephonics IFF Mode 5/S interrogator was installed and the Elisra NS9003A-V2HC ESM system replaced the SLQ-501 CANEWS. An IBM multi-link (Link 11, Link 16 and Link 22 enabled) datalink processing system was installed along with two Raytheon Anschütz Pathfinder Mk II navigation radars. Furthermore, Rheinmetall's Multi-Ammunition Soft kill System (MASS), known as MASS DUERAS was introduced to replace the Plessey Shield decoy system. The existing 57 mm Mk 2 guns were upgraded to the Mk 3 standard and the Harpoon missiles were improved to Block II levels, the Phalanx was upgraded to Block 1B and the obsolete Sea Sparrow system was replaced by the Evolved Sea Sparrow Missile.\n\nThe frigate's keel was laid down on 24 August 1994 by Saint John Shipbuilding Ltd. at their shipyard in Saint John, New Brunswick. The ship was launched on 26 August 1995 and commissioned into the Canadian Forces on 26 June 1996 in St. John's, and carries the hull classification symbol FFH 340.\n\nOn 7 August 1997 the frigate joined NATO's Standing Naval Force Atlantic (STANAVFORLANT), returning to Canada on 18 December. The following year, the frigate took part in the NATO naval exercise Strong Resolve off Norway and deployed to the Adriatic Sea for operations with NATO's Standing Naval Force Mediterranean (STANAVFORMED). In 2000, the ship took part in UNITAS, a multi-national naval exercise. As part of Operation Apollo, Canada's contribution to the War in Afghanistan, \"St. John's\" sailed to the Gulf of Oman. Leaving Halifax, Nova Scotia on 1 May 2002, the frigate participated in fleet support and maritime interdiction missions. The warship returned to Halifax on 17 November 2002.\nIn 2005, the frigate, with the destroyer , frigate and the Canadian Coast Guard ship were sent to Louisiana to aid in recovery efforts following the devastation wrought by Hurricane Katrina. In 2008, the vessel took part in Operation Caribbe, Canada's contribution to an ongoing U.S.-led, multinational effort to interdict drug trafficking in the international waters of the Caribbean Basin and eastern Pacific Ocean. In September 2008, the frigate was sent to Haiti, carrying 350 tonnes of food and relief supplies after the nation had been hit by four hurricanes.\n\nIn July 2010, \"St. John's\" took part in the International Fleet Review at Halifax, Nova Scotia, where Queen Elizabeth II inspected a Guard of Honour on board to mark the centennial of the Royal Canadian Navy, and as part of Canada Day celebrations.\n\nIn August 2011, \"St. John's\" participated in the multinational six-week arctic sovereignty Operation Nanook. During the operation, the ship visited several northern communities and participated in search-and-rescue and disaster response exercises in company with and as well as American and Danish ships. \"St. John's\" deployed on Operation Caribbe from 3 October to 14 November 2011. During her deployment, she helped recover a drug cargo from a scuttled self-propelled semi-submersible (SPSS) vessel. The recovery effort included the deployment of the FBI laboratory’s technical dive team, which conducted dive operations on the scuttled SPSS from United States Coast Guard cutter . More than of cocaine was recovered from the vessel. The drugs, destined for distribution in North America, had an estimated street value of US$180 million. During this deployment, the Joint Interagency Task Force South based out of Key West, Florida, coordinated the joint efforts in allowing the US Coast Guard to make 38 arrests, and seized a total of of cocaine and of marijuana, equating to more than US$223 million.\n\nOn 8 May 2013, the ship suffered an oil spill while at dock in Halifax Harbour. During a transfer of fuel within the ship a leak was spotted and the transfer was halted, but not before a significant amount of oil entered the water. The Royal Canadian Navy was later fined $100,000 for the spill. In the summer of 2013 the crew of \"St. John's\" conducted a replacement in place of the crew of \"Toronto\" in Kuwait City, Kuwait. \"Toronto\" was in the middle of a deployment on Operation Artemis in support of CTF 150. \"St. John's\" completed her FELEX refit at Halifax Shipyards in October 2015.\n\nThe vessel deployed to the Mediterranean Sea in January 2017 to join Standing NATO Maritime Group 2. As part of the deployment, the frigate patrolled the Black Sea. The vessel returned to Canada on 17 July 2017 and was relieved by sister ship . In September 2017, \"St. John's\" was deployed the Caribbean Sea to bring relief aid to Turks and Caicos after Hurricane Irma swept through the region. \"St. John's\" provided aid to South Caicos. The ship was forced to leave the island after only a week due to the arrival of Hurricane Maria. Following the departure of the storm, \"St. John's\" was scheduled to return to South Caicos. However, the frigate was dispatched later that month to bring humanitarian aid to Dominica after Hurricane Maria devastated that island. Once power was restored to the island's airport, \"St. John's\" sailed for Canada, arriving 5 October.\n\n\"St. John's\" departed Halifax on 16 January 2018 for deployment to the Mediterranean Sea as part of Operation Reassurance. The vessel relieved HMCS \"Charlottetown\" upon arrival. The frigate returned to Halifax on 23 July, having participated in naval exercises in the northern Atlantic Ocean and Baltic and Mediterranean Seas. The ship was relieved by .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082243", "title": "Baron Glendevon", "text": "Baron Glendevon\n\nBaron Glendevon, of Midhope in the County of Linlithgow, is a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom. It was created on 16 July 1964 for the Conservative politician Lord John Hope. He was the younger twin son of Victor Hope, 2nd Marquess of Linlithgow. the title is held by his younger son, the third Baron, who succeeded his elder brother in 2009.\n\n\nThere is no heir to the title.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082246", "title": "HMCS Ville de Québec (FFH 332)", "text": "HMCS Ville de Québec (FFH 332)\n\nHMCS \"Ville de Québec\" (FFH 332) (commonly referred to as VDQ) is a that has served in the Canadian Forces and Royal Canadian Navy since 1993. \"Ville de Québec\" is the third vessel in her class which is the name for the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project. The frigate is the second Royal Canadian Navy ship to be named \"Ville de Québec\" and is Canada's only fully bilingual warship. She is assigned to Maritime Forces Atlantic (MARLANT) and is homeported at CFB Halifax. The vessel serves on MARLANT missions protecting Canada's sovereignty in the Atlantic Ocean and enforcing Canadian laws in its territorial sea and Exclusive Economic Zone. Her commanding officer is Commander (Capitaine de Fregate) Michael Eelhart.\n\nThe \"Halifax\"-class frigate design of which \"Ville de Québec\" belongs, was ordered by the Canadian Forces in 1977 as a replacement for the aging , , , and es of destroyer escorts, which were all tasked with anti-submarine warfare. In July 1983, the federal government approved the budget for the design and construction of the first batch of six new frigates of which \"Ville de Québec\" was a part, out of twelve that were eventually built. To reflect the changing long term strategy of the Navy during the 1980s and 1990s, the \"Halifax\"-class frigates was designed as a general purpose warship with particular focus on anti-submarine capabilities.\n\nAs built, the \"Halifax\"-class vessels displaced and were long overall and between perpendiculars with a beam of and a draught of . That made them slightly larger than the \"Iroquois\"-class destroyers. The vessels are propelled by two shafts with Escher Wyss controllable pitch propellers driven by a CODOG system of two General Electric LM2500 gas turbines, generating and one SEMT Pielstick 20 PA6 V 280 diesel engine, generating .\n\nThis gives the frigates a maximum speed of and a range of at while using their diesel engines. Using their gas turbines, the ships have a range of at . The \"Halifax\" class have a complement of 198 naval personnel of which 17 are officers and 17 aircrew of which 8 are officers.\n\nAs built the \"Halifax\"-class vessels deployed the CH-124 Sea King helicopter, which acted in concert with shipboard sensors to seek out and destroy submarines at long distances from the ships. The ships have a helicopter deck fitted with a \"bear trap\" system allowing the launch and recovery of helicopters in up to sea state 6. The \"Halifax\" class also carries a close-in anti-submarine weapon in the form of the Mark 46 torpedo, launched from twin Mark 32 Mod 9 torpedo tubes in launcher compartments either side of the forward end of the helicopter hangar.\n\nAs built, the anti-shipping role is supported by the RGM-84 Harpoon Block 1C surface-to-surface missile, mounted in two quadruple launch tubes at the main deck level between the funnel and the helicopter hangar. For anti-aircraft self-defence the ships are armed with the Sea Sparrow vertical launch surface-to-air missile in two Mk 48 Mod 0 eight-cell launchers placed to port and starboard of the funnel. The vessels carry 16 missiles. A Raytheon/General Dynamics Phalanx Mark 15 Mod 21 Close-In Weapon System (CIWS) is mounted on top of the helicopter hangar for \"last-ditch\" defence against targets that evade the Sea Sparrow.\n\nAs built, the main gun on the forecastle is a /70 calibre Mark 2 gun from Bofors. The gun is capable of firing shells at a rate of 220 rounds per minute at a range of more than .\n\nAs built, the decoy system comprises two BAE Systems Shield Mark 2 decoy launchers which fire chaff to and infrared rockets to in distraction, confusion and centroid seduction modes. The torpedo decoy is the AN/SLQ-25A Nixie towed acoustic decoy from Argon ST. The ship's radar warning receiver, the CANEWS (Canadian Electronic Warfare System), SLQ-501, and the radar jammer, SLQ-505, were developed by Thorn and Lockheed Martin Canada.\n\nTwo Thales Nederland (formerly Signaal) SPG-503 (STIR 1.8) fire control radars are installed one on the roof of the bridge and one on the raised radar platform immediately forward of the helicopter hangar. The ship is also fitted with Raytheon AN/SPS-49(V)5 long-range active air search radar operating at C and D bands, Ericsson HC150 Sea Giraffe medium-range air and surface search radar operating at G and H bands, and Kelvin Hughes Type 1007 I-band navigation radar. The sonar suite includes the CANTASS Canadian Towed Array and GD-C AN/SQS-510 hull mounted sonar and incorporates an acoustic range prediction system. The sonobuoy processing system is the GD-C AN/UYS-503.\n\nThe \"Halifax\" class underwent a modernization program, known as the Halifax Class Modernization (HCM) program, in order to update the frigates' capabilities in combatting modern smaller, faster and more mobile threats. This involved upgrading the command and control, radar, communications, electronic warfare and armament systems. Further improvements, such as modifying the vessel to accommodate the new Sikorsky CH-148 Cyclone helicopter and satellite links will be done separately from the main Frigate Equipment Life Extension (FELEX) program.\n\nThe FELEX program comprised upgrading the combat systems integration to CMS330. The SPS-49 2D long range air search radar was replaced by the Thales Nederland SMART-S Mk 2 E/F-band 3D surveillance radar, and the two STIR 1.8 fire control radars wre replaced by a pair of Saab Ceros 200 re-control radars. A Telephonics IFF Mode 5/S interrogator was installed and the Elisra NS9003A-V2HC ESM system replaced the SLQ-501 CANEWS. An IBM multi-link (Link 11, Link 16 and Link 22 enabled) datalink processing system was installed along with two Raytheon Anschütz Pathfinder Mk II navigation radars. Furthermore, Rheinmetall's Multi-Ammunition Soft kill System (MASS), known as MASS DUERAS was introduced to replace the Plessey Shield decoy system. The existing 57 mm Mk 2 guns were upgraded to the Mk 3 standard and the Harpoon missiles were improved to Block II levels, the Phalanx was upgraded to Block 1B and the obsolete Sea Sparrow system was replaced by the Evolved Sea Sparrow Missile.\n\n\"Ville de Québec\" was laid down on 16 December 1988 at MIL Davie Shipbuilding, Lauzon and launched on 16 May 1991. The frigate was commissioned into the Canadian Forces on 14 July 1994 at Quebec City and carries the hull classification symbol FFH 332.\n\nOn 9 February 1995, the ship departed Halifax to participate in the NATO naval exercise \"Strong Resolve\" off Norway. In July, the ship deployed as part of STANAVFORLANT in the Adriatic Sea as part of the blockade force against Yugoslavia. The ship returned to Canada in January 1996. In 1998, \"Ville de Québec\" was among the Canadian naval assets that deployed in the search for Swissair Flight 111. In 1999, \"Ville de Québec\" joined STANAVFORLANT again for a three-month tour.\n\nOn 2 September 2005 \"Ville de Québec\" was deployed with a joint Canadian Forces Maritime Command/Canadian Coast Guard task force to the Gulf of Mexico to assist the United States with disaster relief efforts in Louisiana and Mississippi following Hurricane Katrina. 300 sailors deployed from the task force to Biloxi, Mississippi to assist in the cleanup and reconstruction and the ships of the task force delivered supplies to Pensacola, Florida.\n\nIn 2008, the frigate deployed as Canada's contribution to Standing NATO Maritime Group 1, NATO's fleet. On 6 August 2008, it was announced that \"Ville de Québec\" would redeploy and help in the protection of NATO relief for Somalia from pirates. The ship arrived on 19 August 2008, escorting World Food Program vessels from Mombasa, Kenya to Mogadishu.\n\nDuring the summer of 2012, the frigate conducted an extensive tour of the Great Lakes, visiting 14 Great Lakes cities on both the Canadian and United States shores to mark the 200th anniversary of the War of 1812. \"Ville de Québec\" underwent her FELEX modernization beginning in October 2014 at Halifax, completing in December 2015. On 3 March 2016, while performing work up trials, the ship suffered a fire in one of her diesel generators while at HMC Dockyard in Halifax. The fire was suppressed and three crew members were sent to hospital as a precaution. the amount of damage was unknown. The damage was repaired and the ship performed a series of port visits along the Great Lakes and Saint Lawrence Seaway in September 2016.\n\nOn 18 July 2018, \"Ville de Québec\" departed Halifax to join Canada's Operation Reassurance in the Mediterranean and Black Seas, replacing sister ship . \"Ville de Québec\"s departure also marked the first international deployment of the Sikorsky CH-148 Cyclone helicopter. In October 2018, \"Ville de Québec\" was among the Canadian ships sent to participate in the large NATO exercise Trident Juncture in the North Atlantic and Baltic Seas. The ship then deployed to the Mediterranean Sea as part of Operation Reassurance, joining Standing NATO Maritime Group 2 and visiting Israel and Croatia. The frigate returned to Canada on 21 January 2019.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082255", "title": "HMCS Winnipeg (FFH 338)", "text": "HMCS Winnipeg (FFH 338)\n\nHMCS \"Winnipeg\" is a that has served in the Royal Canadian Navy since 1996. \"Winnipeg\" is the ninth ship in her class, whose design emerged from the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project. She is the second Canadian warship to carry the name . \"Winnipeg\" serves on Canadian Forces MARPAC missions protecting Canada's sovereignty in the Pacific Ocean and the Arctic Ocean and in enforcing Canadian laws on its territorial oceans and Exclusive Economic Zone. The vessel has been deployed on missions throughout the Pacific, and also to the Indian Ocean; specifically on anti-terrorism operations in the Persian Gulf and the Arabian Sea, and counter-piracy operations off the coast of Somalia. The ship is assigned to the Maritime Forces Pacific (MARPAC), and she has her home port at the Canadian Forces Maritime Base at Esquimalt.\n\nThe \"Halifax\"-class frigate design, emerging from the Canadian Patrol Frigate Project, was ordered by the Canadian Forces in 1977 as a replacement for the aging , , , and es of destroyer escorts, which were all tasked with anti-submarine warfare. \"Winnipeg\" was ordered in December 1987 as part of the second batch of frigates. To reflect the changing long term strategy of the Navy during the 1980s and 1990s, the \"Halifax\"-class frigates was designed as a general purpose warship with particular focus on anti-submarine capabilities.\n\nAs built, the \"Halifax\"-class vessels displaced and were long overall and between perpendiculars with a beam of and a draught of . That made them slightly larger than the \"Iroquois\"-class destroyers. The vessels are propelled by two shafts with Escher Wyss controllable pitch propellers driven by a CODOG system of two General Electric LM2500 gas turbines, generating and one SEMT Pielstick 20 PA6 V 280 diesel engine, generating .\n\nThis gives the frigates a maximum speed of and a range of at while using their diesel engines. Using their gas turbines, the ships have a range of at . The \"Halifax\" class have a complement of 198 naval personnel of which 17 are officers and 17 aircrew of which 8 are officers.\n\nAs built the \"Halifax\"-class vessels deployed the CH-124 Sea King helicopter, which acted in concert with shipboard sensors to seek out and destroy submarines at long distances from the ships. The ships have a helicopter deck fitted with a \"bear trap\" system allowing the launch and recovery of helicopters in up to sea state 6. The \"Halifax\" class also carries a close-in anti-submarine weapon in the form of the Mark 46 torpedo, launched from twin Mark 32 Mod 9 torpedo tubes in launcher compartments either side of the forward end of the helicopter hangar.\n\nAs built, the anti-shipping role is supported by the RGM-84 Harpoon Block 1C surface-to-surface missile, mounted in two quadruple launch tubes at the main deck level between the funnel and the helicopter hangar. For anti-aircraft self-defence the ships are armed with the Sea Sparrow vertical launch surface-to-air missile in two Mk 48 Mod 0 eight-cell launchers placed to port and starboard of the funnel. The vessels carry 16 missiles. A Raytheon/General Dynamics Phalanx Mark 15 Mod 21 Close-In Weapon System (CIWS) is mounted on top of the helicopter hangar for \"last-ditch\" defence against targets that evade the Sea Sparrow.\n\nAs built, the main gun on the forecastle is a /70 calibre Mark 2 gun from Bofors. The gun is capable of firing shells at a rate of 220 rounds per minute at a range of more than . The vessels also carry eight machine guns.\n\nAs built, the decoy system comprises Two BAE Systems Shield Mark 2 decoy launchers which fire chaff to and infrared rockets to in distraction, confusion and centroid seduction modes. The torpedo decoy is the AN/SLQ-25A Nixie towed acoustic decoy from Argon ST. The ship's radar warning receiver, the CANEWS (Canadian Electronic Warfare System), SLQ-501, and the radar jammer, SLQ-505, were developed by Thorn and Lockheed Martin Canada.\n\nTwo Thales Nederland (formerly Signaal) SPG-503 (STIR 1.8) fire control radars are installed one on the roof of the bridge and one on the raised radar platform immediately forward of the helicopter hangar. The ship is also fitted with Raytheon AN/SPS-49(V)5 long-range active air search radar operating at C and D bands, Ericsson HC150 Sea Giraffe medium-range air and surface search radar operating at G and H bands, and Kelvin Hughes Type 1007 I-band navigation radar. The sonar suite includes the CANTASS Canadian Towed Array and GD-C AN/SQS-510 hull mounted sonar and incorporates an acoustic range prediction system. The sonobuoy processing system is the GD-C AN/UYS-503.\n\nThe \"Halifax\" class underwent a modernization program, known as the Halifax Class Modernization (HCM) program, in order to update the frigates' capabilities in combatting modern smaller, faster and more mobile threats. This involved upgrading the command and control, radar, communications, electronic warfare and armament systems. Further improvements, such as modifying the vessel to accommodate the new Sikorsky CH-148 Cyclone helicopter and satellite links will be done separately from the main Frigate Equipment Life Extension (FELEX) program.\n\nThe FELEX program comprised upgrading the combat systems integration to CMS330. The SPS-49 2D long range air search radar was replaced by the Thales Nederland SMART-S Mk 2 E/F-band 3D surveillance radar, and the two STIR 1.8 fire control radars wre replaced by a pair of Saab Ceros 200 re-control radars. A Telephonics IFF Mode 5/S interrogator was installed and the Elisra NS9003A-V2HC ESM system replaced the SLQ-501 CANEWS. An IBM multi-link (Link 11, Link 16 and Link 22 enabled) datalink processing system was installed along with two Raytheon Anschütz Pathfinder Mk II navigation radars. Furthermore, Rheinmetall's Multi-Ammunition Soft kill System (MASS), known as MASS DUERAS was introduced to replace the Plessey Shield decoy system. The existing 57 mm Mk 2 guns were upgraded to the Mk 3 standard and the Harpoon missiles were improved to Block II levels, the Phalanx was upgraded to Block 1B and the obsolete Sea Sparrow system was replaced by the Evolved Sea Sparrow Missile.\n\n\"Winnipeg\"s keel was laid down on 20 March 1993 by Saint John Shipbuilding Company at their shipyard in Saint John, New Brunswick. Her engine room modules were constructed at Georgetown, Prince Edward Island and transported to Saint John to be incorporated into the rest of the vessel. The ship was launched on 5 December 1993. The vessel departed Halifax, Nova Scotia on 16 January 1995, sailing to West Coast of Canada. Arriving at Esquimalt, British Columbia, the warship was commissioned into the Canadian Forces on 23 June 1995, and carries the hull classification symbol FFH 338.\n\nIn 1996, \"Winnipeg\" participated in the multi-national naval exercise RIMPAC 96 in coastal waters off Hawaii. Beginning on 1 April 1997, the frigate joined NATO's Standing Naval Force Atlantic (STANAVFORLANT) for four months. In 1998, \"Winnipeg\" participated in the South American naval exercise UNITAS. In March 2001, \"Winnipeg\" integrated into the Carrier Battle Group in the Persian Gulf. As part of the carrier battle group, the frigate enforced sanctions against Iraq for six months, returning to Esquimalt on 14 September.\n\nThe frigate was deployed as part of Operation Apollo, Canada's contribution to the War in Afghanistan. The ship was in theatre from 15 September 2002 to 2 May 2003 performing fleet support missions and maritime interdiction operations.\nIn April 2009, \"Winnipeg\" was deployed to the Gulf of Aden to escort United Nations ships carrying famine, plague, and overpopulation relief supplies to East Africa for ten weeks. After escorting a World Food program ship, \"Winnipeg\" came across a pirate attack on the Norwegian tanker . \"Winnipeg\" captured the pirates, but they were later released due to Canadian law preventing prosecution.\n\nOn 12 August 2010, the frigate intercepted , a Thailand-flagged ship carrying Tamil refugees from Sri Lanka, off the coast of British Columbia.\n\nIn April 2012 \"Winnipeg\" was turned over to Seaspan Marine Corporation's Victoria Shipyards, to start an 18-month mid-life upgrading and modernization. On 10 April 2013 \"Winnipeg\" was returned to the Royal Canadian Navy to finish the midlife refit.\n\nOn 23 April 2013, \"Winnipeg\" was rammed while docked at CFB Esquimalt, by American sea trawler \"American Dynasty\" of the American Seafoods Company. Six people were injured. \"American Dynasty\" was being towed to the graving dock for repairs when the fishing vessel accelerated and veered to starboard, hitting the frigate. The resulting investigation found fault with the crew of the fishing vessel and their equipment. \"Winnipeg\", accompanied by , and , departed in October 2014 to take part the Task Group Exercise with the US and Japanese Navies in American coastal waters.\n\nIn January 2015, \"Winnipeg\" was deployed in the eastern Pacific as part of Operation Caribbe 2015, part of a joint multinational effort to eliminate illegal trafficking through the waters around Central America and the Caribbean nations. \"Winnipeg\" was deployed to Operation Caribbe for three weeks in June, after which the ship transited the Panama Canal to join NATO's Operation Reassurance in the Mediterranean Sea. The ship left the Mediterranean headed towards the Pacific after being relieved by sister ship . In January 2016, she made port visits to Penang, the first Royal Canadian Navy ship to do so, and Singapore. \"Winnipeg\" returned to Esquimalt on 23 February.\n\n\"Winnipeg\" and sister ship sailed from Esquimalt on 6 March 2017 for six-month deployment visiting several nations around the Pacific, including Malaysia, India, China and Japan among others, returning on 8 August.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082256", "title": "Hanadi Zakaria al-Hindi", "text": "Hanadi Zakaria al-Hindi\n\nHanadi Zakaria al-Hindi () is the first Saudi woman to become a first female pilot She was born in Mecca in September 1978. She passed her final exams at the Middle East Academy for Commercial Aviation in Amman, Jordan on 15 June 2005. She has a ten-year contract with Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal’s Kingdom Holding Company as a pilot of his private jet, the \"Kingdom\". Al-Waleed is considered a proponent for female emancipation in the Saudi world, financed her training and stated on her graduation that he is \"in full support of Saudi ladies working in all fields\". Al-Hindi became certified to fly within Saudi Arabia in 2014.\n\nReports highlighted the irony that a Saudi woman is allowed to pilot an aeroplane but may not drive a car ( although this has changed in 2017 ). Al-Hindi, however, does not see this as a contradiction.\n"}
{"id": "2082257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082257", "title": "List of Psilocybe species", "text": "List of Psilocybe species\n\nThis is a list of species in the agaric genus \"Psilocybe\".\n\nA B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V U W X Y Z\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082261", "title": "Wireworld", "text": "Wireworld\n\nWireworld is a cellular automaton first proposed by Brian Silverman in 1987, as part of his program Phantom Fish Tank. It subsequently became more widely known as a result of an article in the \"Computer Recreations\" column of \"Scientific American\". Wireworld is particularly suited to simulating transistors, and Wireworld is Turing-complete.\n\nA Wireworld cell can be in one of four different states, usually numbered 0–3 in software, modeled by colors in the examples here:\nAs in all cellular automata, time proceeds in discrete steps called generations (sometimes \"gens\" or \"ticks\"). Cells behave as follows:\n\nWireworld uses what is called the Moore neighborhood, which means that in the rules above, neighbouring means one cell away (range value of one) in any direction, both orthogonal and diagonal.\n\nThese simple rules can be used to construct logic gates (see below).\n\nEntities built within Wireworld universes include Langton's Ant (allowing any Langton's Ant pattern to be built within Wireworld) and the Wireworld computer, a Turing-complete computer implemented as a cellular automaton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082265", "title": "Overclass", "text": "Overclass\n\nOverclass is a recent and pejorative term for the most powerful group in a social hierarchy. Users of the term generally imply excessive and unjust privilege and exploitation of the rest of society.\n\nPerhaps the most commonly agreed-upon \"overclass\" consists of leaders in international business, finance and the war industry.\n\nThe influence of the actions by the overclass have been rigorously studied, particularly with regards to notions of intersections between the overclass and specific races. Most notable of these racial overclasses is the NEWBO, or NEW Black Overclass in America.\n\nThe word is fairly recent: the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" included it only in December 2004. But it has been in use since at least 1995. Some writers compare it to the more familiar \"underclass\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082266", "title": "Baron Renwick", "text": "Baron Renwick\n\nBaron Renwick, of Coombe in the County of Surrey, is a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom. It was created in 1964 for the businessman and public servant, Sir Robert Renwick, 2nd Baronet. He notably worked for the Air Ministry and the Ministry of Aircraft Production during the Second World War. The Renwick Baronetcy, of Coombe in the County of Surrey, was created in the Baronetage of the United Kingdom on 28 June 1927 for his father, Harry Renwick. the titles are held by the first Baron's only son, the second Baron, who succeeded in 1973. He was active in the House of Lords until the House of Lords Act 1999, when he lost his seat in parliament.\n\n\n\nThe heir apparent is the present holder's elder son, Robert James Renwick (b. 1966)<br>\nThe next and last in line to the titles is the present holder's younger son Hon. Michael David Renwick (b. 1968)\n\n"}
{"id": "2082268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082268", "title": "Armill", "text": "Armill\n\nAn armill or armilla (from the Latin: \"armillae\" remains the plural of armilla) is a type of bracelet, or armlet, normally in metal and worn in pairs, one for each arm. They were usually worn as part of royal regalia, for example at a coronation, or perhaps as part of especially grand liturgical vestments. They may have been worn outside ceremonies. Armillae presumably descend from the Ancient Roman armilla, which was a form of military decoration. These in turn seem to have developed from the armlets worn by some \"barbarian\" nations, including the ancient Celts and Scots. The form is variable; all three examples discussed below have completely different forms.\n\nMedieval survivals are vanishingly rare; much the most famous pair is now divided between the Louvre and the Germanisches Nationalmuseum in Nuremberg (illustrated), having once been in the Hermitage Museum. These were found in the tomb of Andrei Bogolyubsky, Grand prince of Vladimir-Suzdal (d. 1174), in Vladimir, and may have been gifts from Emperor Frederick I Barbarossa (r. 1152–90), who received an embassy from the grand-prince in 1165. They are high-quality Mosan work in champlevé enamel on gilded copper, showing the Resurrection of Jesus (Louvre) and Crucifixion (Nuremberg). They probably fitted onto the shoulder, or otherwise would only go part way round the limb, and have holes (six in the Louvre's example) by which they were presumably attached to thongs or bands, or sewn to the clothing below. It is thought they were made for wear by the emperor himself.\n\nA similar pair were drawn sometime before 1765, and described in a book published in 1790. They were then in the Imperial Treasury in Nuremberg, complete with their thongs for attachment, but they have since disappeared. These had scenes of the Nativity of Jesus and the Presentation in the Temple.\n\nIt has recently been suggested that the enamelled plates from the Monomachus Crown in Budapest showing, but probably not made for, the Byzantine emperor Constantine IX Monomachos, r. 1042–1055, may in fact come from an armilla rather than a crown, as is normally assumed. These are gold plates, decorated with cloisonné enamel, but despite the lavish materials the workmanship is far from perfect, and the inscriptions contain simple errors; they were perhaps commissioned in a hurry for a special occasion. They were found in 1860 in a field in what is now Slovakia.\n\nThe oldest surviving in the Crown Jewels of the United Kingdom, where they are usually called armills, are those of King Charles II, and the newest were created for the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II in 1953. The Elizabeth II Armills were presented to the Queen by the governments of various Commonwealth nations and are single-piece round bracelets made of 22 carat gold lined with crimson velvet, with a concealed hinge and spring catch. However most British monarchs have not worn armills when crowned.\n\nThe term \"armilla\" is used in the English \"Liber Regalis\" (probably 1382) to describe a stole, like the Byzantine imperial \"loros\", but this is thought to be a confusion as to the meaning of the word.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082269", "title": "Irregular Z-buffer", "text": "Irregular Z-buffer\n\nThe irregular Z-buffer is an algorithm designed to solve the visibility problem in real-time 3-d computer graphics. It is related to the classical Z-buffer in that it maintains a depth value for each image sample and uses these to determine which geometric elements of a scene are visible. The key difference, however, between the classical Z-buffer and the irregular Z-buffer is that the latter allows arbitrary placement of image samples in the image plane, whereas the former requires samples to be arranged in a regular grid.\n\nThese depth samples are explicitly stored in a two-dimensional spatial data structure. During rasterization, triangles are projected onto the image plane as usual, and the data structure is queried to determine which samples overlap each projected triangle. Finally, for each overlapping sample, the standard Z-compare and (conditional) frame buffer update are performed.\n\nThe classical rasterization algorithm projects each polygon onto the image plane, and determines which sample points from a regularly spaced set lie inside the projected polygon. Since the locations of these samples (i.e. pixels) are implicit, this determination can be made by testing the edges against the implicit grid of sample points. If, however the locations of the sample points are irregularly spaced and cannot be computed from a formula, then this approach does not work. The irregular Z-buffer solves this problem by storing sample locations explicitly in a two-dimensional spatial data structure, and later querying this structure to determine which samples lie within a projected triangle. This latter step is referred to as \"irregular rasterization\". \nAlthough the particular data structure used may vary from implementation to implementation, the two studied approaches are the kd-tree, and a grid of linked lists. A balanced kd-tree implementation has the advantage that it guarantees O(log(N)) access. Its chief disadvantage is that parallel construction of the kd-tree may be difficult, and traversal requires expensive branch instructions. The grid of lists has the advantage that it can be implemented more effectively on GPU hardware, which is designed primarily for the classical Z-buffer.\n\nWith the appearance of CUDA, the programmability of current graphics hardware has been drastically improved. The Master Thesis, \"Fast Triangle Rasterization using irregular Z-buffer on CUDA\" (see External Links), provide a complete description to an irregular Z-Buffer based shadow mapping software implementation on CUDA. The rendering system is running completely on GPUs. It is capable of generating aliasing-free shadows at a throughput of dozens of million triangles per second.\n\nThe irregular Z-buffer can be used for any application which requires visibility calculations at arbitrary locations in the image plane. It has been shown to be particularly adept at shadow mapping, an image space algorithm for rendering hard shadows. In addition to shadow rendering, potential applications include adaptive anti-aliasing, jittered sampling, and environment mapping.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082272", "title": "Villawood railway station", "text": "Villawood railway station\n\nVillawood railway station is located on the Main South line, serving the Sydney suburb of Villawood. It is served by Sydney Trains T3 Bankstown line services.\n\nVillawood station opened on 8 October 1924 when the Main South line was extended from Regents Park to Cabramatta.\n\nTo the south of the station lies the Southern Sydney Freight Line that opened in January 2013.\n\nHistorically, Villawood was served by services from the city and Lidcombe operating to Liverpool. This changed in the early 2000s, when most services to Liverpool were altered to operate via Bankstown. Today Villawood is served by T3 Bankstown line services terminating at Liverpool.\n\nTransdev NSW operates three routes via Villawood station:\n\nVillawood station is served by one NightRide route:\n\n"}
{"id": "2082273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082273", "title": "Aiolornis", "text": "Aiolornis\n\nAiolornis incredibilis (syn \"Teratornis incredibilis\"), of the teratorn family, was the largest-known North American flight-capable bird, with a wingspan of up to approximately and a huge, deep, powerful bill. The typical body mass of this bird was estimated to be , significantly heavier than any extant flying bird. \"A. incredibilis\" presumably became extinct at the same time as the other megafauna in North America. It is sometimes called the giant condor because of its resemblance to the modern condors of California and South America, although it is bigger and in a different family. It is not well known but is quite similar to \"Teratornis merriami\", although about 40% larger overall. Fossils have been found from the Early Pliocene to the Late Pleistocene in various locales in the southwestern and western-central part of the USA; it is not certain that all belong to the same species given the large time range and the lack of complete specimens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082274", "title": "Anne de Beauchamp", "text": "Anne de Beauchamp\n\nAnne de Beauchamp may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2082277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082277", "title": "Anne Beauchamp, 16th Countess of Warwick", "text": "Anne Beauchamp, 16th Countess of Warwick\n\nAnne Beauchamp, 16th Countess of Warwick (13 July 1426 – 20 September 1492) was the daughter of Richard Beauchamp, 13th Earl of Warwick, and his second wife Isabel le Despenser, a daughter of Thomas le Despenser (22 September 1373 – 13 January 1399/1400) and Constance of York. Anne Beauchamp was the mother of Anne Neville, Queen consort of England as the spouse of King Richard III.\n\nAnne de Beauchamp was born at Caversham Castle in Oxfordshire (now Berkshire). She married Richard Neville 'the Kingmaker' – and her brother Henry Beauchamp married Richard's sister Cecily – in 1436. Following the death of Anne's father in 1439, and subsequently that of her brother Henry in 1446, and his infant daughter Lady Anne in 1449, Neville inherited the title and the considerable estates of the Earldom of Warwick through his wife.\n\nHowever, this was contested by Anne's three older half-sisters, children of her father's first marriage to Elizabeth, heir of Berkeley. One of these, Lady Eleanor, was married to Edmund Beaufort, 2nd Duke of Somerset (killed at the First Battle of St Albans in 1455). The litigation over the Warwick inheritance only fuelled the enmity between this branch of the Nevilles and the Beauforts who were closely related. Anne Beauchamp's husband, Richard, was the grandson of Lady Joan Beaufort, Countess of Westmorland, sister of the Duke's late father. Law considered that Anne Beauchamp being a full-blooded aunt of the last countess was more eligible to inherit than her older half-sisters, who were thus not coheirs with her, including the eldest – Lady Margaret, Countess of Shrewsbury (d. 1468). Richard Neville succeeded in keeping the Warwick and Despencer estates intact.\n\nHer older daughter, Lady Isabel, married George, Duke of Clarence, the younger brother of King Edward IV of England. Her younger daughter, Lady Anne Neville, was married to Edward of Westminster, the only son of King Henry VI. When Edward of Westminster was killed in the Battle of Tewkesbury, Anne Neville was married to Richard, Duke of Gloucester, later King Richard III of England. Although their mother was still living, the husbands of the two Neville sisters fought over their inheritance, while Anne was declared legally dead by Parliament. To win his brother George's final consent to the marriage with Anne, Richard renounced most of Warwick's land and property including the earldoms of Warwick (which the Kingmaker had held in his wife's right) and Salisbury and surrendered to Clarence the office of Great Chamberlain of England. After George was executed for treason in 1478, his son Edward inherited the title of Earl of Warwick, while Richard's son was styled Earl of Salisbury.\n\nAnne died in obscurity, having survived her husband, her daughters and the sons-in-law who had effectively disinherited her. She was in sanctuary at Beaulieu Abbey in 1486 when she petitioned Henry VII for the return of her estate. She recovered a small portion, but only on condition that she broke the entail and remit the bulk of them to Henry VII. \"The 'Warwick and Spencer lands', her own patrimony became part of the crown estate.\"\n\nAnne, Countess of Warwick appears prominently in the Philippa Gregory novels \"The White Queen\" (2009), \"The Red Queen\" (2010), and \"The Kingmaker's Daughter\" (2012), and is played by Juliet Aubrey in the 2013 television adaptation of all three novels, \"The White Queen\". She is depicted as a coldly ambitious mother to Isabel and Anne Neville, and her husband's staunchest supporter.\n\nA more sympathetic portrayal of the Countess of Warwick is in the novel \"The Sunne in Splendour\" by Sharon Kay Penman, and a maternal view of her is observed in \"The Reluctant Queen\" by Jean Plaidy. Novelist Sandra Worth represents the Countess as her husband's conscience in her five novels about the Wars of the Roses. The Countess is depicted as being especially close to her grandson Edward of Middleham. Another sympathetic portrayal of Anne Beauchamp is \"Wife to the Kingmaker\", a 1974 title by Sandra Wilson.\n"}
{"id": "2082279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082279", "title": "Demand reduction", "text": "Demand reduction\n\nDemand reduction refers to efforts aimed at reducing the public desire for illegal and illicit drugs. The drug policy is in contrast to the reduction of drug supply, but the two policies are often implemented together. Some discussions of demand reduction make a distinction between policies that address single issues (such as public \"knowledge-of-harms\") or are short-term interventions(in-school programs), and those that approach drug demand as a complex issue with multiple social risk factors. Some economists such as Milton Friedman argue that due to the law of supply and demand, reducing demand is the only effective way to reduce drug use long-term. It is questionable, however, whether demand reduction programs actually reduce demand.\n\nIn September 2011, Canada implemented new color graphic depictions of the consequences of smoking, mandating that they cover 75% of the front and back of each carton, health information messages on the inside of the pack, and toxic emissions statements. Each tobacco product features one such image from a series, which includes people dying in hospitals, rotting mouths, and dissected body parts depicting tumors, along with simple bold messages stating that cigarettes cause cancer, mouth disease, impotence, and harm babies. International research supports the efficacy of such warning messages.\n\nOther examples of demand reduction programs include D.A.R.E., the State of Montana's \"Not Even Once\"., and the drug policy of Sweden.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082280", "title": "Here You Come Again", "text": "Here You Come Again\n\nHere You Come Again is the nineteenth solo studio album by Dolly Parton. It was released on October 3, 1977, by RCA Victor. It was Parton's first album to be certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America, for shipping a million copies.\n\n\"Billboard\" published a review of the album in the October 17, 1977 issue, which said, \"This is by far Parton's most accessible pop crossover attempt. The material she chooses to work with, some by noted authors, others self penned, is delivered in Parton's little girl-sounding vocals. Her sweet-flowing voice becomes more and more likeable on each cut, emitting a warm innocence. The delicate string and horn accompaniment adds to the breezy, more subtle country effect. And the strong guitar work, pedal steel included, doesn't distract from Parton's vocals. Parton's title track single, which she sang on the Rock Awards television broadcast, is a sure bet to crack the Hot 100.\"\n\nIn the October 22, 1977 issue, \"Cashbox\" published a review saying, \"Dolly's winning ways have convinced more than a few former non-believers that country and western audiences have no right to a monopoly on this songbird's talents. With this album, Dolly takes a giant step into the pop mainstream with a spicy repertoire that features only an occasional banjo or pedal steel lick. But even those who have seen her perform will have to be at least mildly surprised at how naturally proficient Dolly is at jumping into a completely new bag.\"\n\nThe album peaked at No. 1 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot Country LPs chart and No. 20 on the US \"Billboard\" 200 chart. In Canada, the album peaked at No. 12 on the \"RPM\" Canadian Albums chart.\n\nThe album's first single, \"Here You Come Again\", was released in October 1977 and peaked at No. 1 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot Country Singles chart, No. 3 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and No. 2 on the US \"Billboard\" Easy Listening chart. In Canada, the single peaked at No. 1 on the \"RPM\" Canadian Country Singles chart, No. 7 on the \"RPM\" Canadian Singles chart and No. 1 on the \"RPM\" Canadian Easy Listening chart. In Australia, the single peaked at No. 10 on the ARIA Top 100 Singles chart. The single also peaked a No. 75 on the OCC UK Singles Chart.\n\nIn February 1978, \"Two Doors Down\" and \"It's All Wrong, But It's All Right\" were issued as a double A-side single, aimed at the pop and country charts respectively. The version of \"Two Doors Down\" issued on the single was recorded by Parton in January 1978 and features a more pop sound than the album version. It would replace the original album version on all subsequent pressings of the album. \"Two Doors Down\" peaked at No. 19 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and No. 12 on the US \"Billboard\" Easy Listening chart. In Canada, the single peaked at No. 26 on the \"RPM\" Canadian Singles chart and No. 7 on the \"RPM\" Canadian Easy Listening chart. \"It's All Wrong, But It's All Right\" peaked at No. 1 on both the US \"Billboard\" Hot Country Singles chart and the \"RPM\" Canadian Country Singles chart.\n\nIn April 1980, \"Me and Little Andy\" was released as a single in the UK and it did not chart.\n\n\nAlbum\nSingles\nAcademy of Country Music Awards\nAmerican Music Awards\nCountry Music Association Awards\n20th Annual Grammy Awards\n21st Annual Grammy Awards\nNashville Songwriters Association International Awards\n"}
{"id": "2082281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082281", "title": "Carramar railway station", "text": "Carramar railway station\n\nCarramar railway station is located on the Main South line, serving the Sydney suburb of Carramar. It is served by Sydney Trains T3 Bankstown Line services.\n\nCarramar station opened as South Fairfield on 8 October 1924 when the Main South line was extended from Regents Park to Cabramatta. It was renamed Carramar on 1 July 1926.\n\nTo the south of the station lies the Southern Sydney Freight Line that opened in January 2013.\n\nHistorically Carramar was served by services from the city and Lidcombe operating to Liverpool. This changed in the early 2000s, when most services to Liverpool were altered to operate via Bankstown. Today Carramar is served by T3 Bankstown Line services terminating at Liverpool and three Liverpool / City via Strathfield services on weekdays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082287", "title": "Pluckemin, New Jersey", "text": "Pluckemin, New Jersey\n\nPluckemin is an unincorporated community located within Bedminster Township, in Somerset County, New Jersey, United States. It was also known historically as Pluckamin. It was the site of several historic events during the American Revolutionary War.\n\nAfter the victory at Princeton, General George Washington and his army camped nearby from January 4 to 6, 1777 on the march to Morristown. On January 5, General Washington set up his headquarters in a local Pluckemin house, which later became known as the , and wrote his battle report to John Hancock. He also ordered military honors for the battle death of British Captain William Leslie, a friend of the American Dr. Benjamin Rush. The gravestone is in the graveyard of the former St. Paul's Lutheran Church (built 1757), where the Pluckemin Presbyterian Church is now located.\n\nDuring the winter of 1778–79, the Pluckemin Continental Artillery Cantonment Site, commanded by General Henry Knox, was located nearby.\n\nOn February 18, 1779, General Knox organized a grand celebration, \"The French Alliance Ball\", for the first anniversary of the alliance with France. In attendance were General Washington and his wife Martha. Over four hundred people enjoyed dancing, drinking and fireworks.\n\nThe Pluckemin Village Historic District was added to the National Register of Historic Places on July 26, 1982.\n\nPluckemin is intersected by two major roads: U.S. Route 202 / U.S. Route 206 (north-south) and County Route 620 / Burnt Mills Road / Washington Valley Road (east-west).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082294", "title": "You Come and Go Like a Pop Song", "text": "You Come and Go Like a Pop Song\n\nYou Come and Go Like a Pop Song is an album by The Bicycle Thief, released in 1999 and re-released with a different track listing in 2001.\n\nThe Bicycle Thief's main song writing is done by frontman Bob Forrest, singer for LA band Thelonious Monster and occasional collaborator Red Hot Chili Peppers guitarist John Frusciante. Forrest is mentioned in Anthony Kiedis's \"Scar Tissue\", but briefly. Josh Klinghoffer (later to play in Red Hot Chili Peppers and Dot Hacker) plays a major role, contributing drums, guitars, keyboards, and songwriting to the album.\n\nFrusciante appears on \"Cereal Song\" as a guitarist. Additional musicians, songwriters, and producers for the album include Josh Blum, Kevin Fitzgerald, and Marc Hunter.\n\nBob is now a radio host, streaming at www.indie1031.com, as well as a drug counselor in California.\n\nThe album's title may have come from a lyric in Ani DiFranco's song \"Gratitude\": \"But I don't come and go like a pop song/that you can play incessantly and then forget when it's gone.\"\n\n\nFor the 2001 re-release of the album, the track listing was completely changed, the tracks \"It's Alright\" and \"Rhonda Meets the Birdman\" were replaced with \"Song for a Kevin Spacey Movie\" and \"Trust Fund Girl\", and \"Aspirations\" was renamed to \"Stoned\".\n\n\n\n\"Stoned\" (called \"Aspirations\" on the album's first release) was released as a single in 2001 around the same time as the re-release of the album.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082295", "title": "Fantastic Mr Fox", "text": "Fantastic Mr Fox\n\nFantastic Mr Fox is a children's novel written by British author Roald Dahl. It was published in 1970, by George Allen & Unwin in the UK and Alfred A. Knopf in the U.S., with illustrations by Donald Chaffin. The first U.K. Puffin paperback, first issued in 1974, featured illustrations by Jill Bennett. Later editions have featured illustrations by Tony Ross (1988) and Quentin Blake (1996). The story is about Mr. Fox and how he outwits his farmer neighbours to steal their food from right under their noses. In 2009, it was adapted into a film by Wes Anderson.\n\nTwo audio readings were released, one with the author narrating () and another with Martin Jarvis narrating ().\n\nThe story revolves around an anthropomorphic, tricky, and clever fox named Mr. Fox who lives underground beside a tree with his wife and four children. In order to feed his family, he makes night visits to farms owned by three wicked, rude, cruel and dim-witted farmers named Boggis, Bunce and Bean and snatches away the livestock available on each man's farm. Tired of being outsmarted by Mr. Fox, the farmers devise a plan to ambush him as he leaves his burrow, but they succeed only in shooting off his tail.\n\nThe farmers then dig up the Foxes' burrow using spades and then excavators. The Foxes manage to escape by burrowing further beneath the earth to safety. The trio of farmers are ridiculed for their persistence but they refuse to give up and vow not to return to their farms until they have caught Mr. Fox. They then decide to surround Mr. Fox's hole and wait until he is hungry enough to come out. Cornered by their enemies, Mr. Fox and his family, and all the other underground creatures that lived around the hill, begin to starve.\n\nAfter three days trapped underground, Mr. Fox devises a plot to acquire food. Working from Mr. Fox's memory of the routes he has taken above ground, he and his children tunnel through the ground and wind up burrowing to one of Boggis' four chicken houses. Mr. Fox kills several chickens and sends his eldest son to carry the food back home to Mrs. Fox. On the way to their next destination, Mr. Fox runs into his friend Badger and asks him to accompany him on his mission, as well as to extend an invitation to the feast to the other burrowing animals - Badger and his family, as well as the Moles, the Rabbits and the Weasels - to apologize for getting them caught up in the farmers' hunt. Aided by Badger, the animals tunnel to Bunce's mighty storehouse for ducks, geese, hams, bacon and carrots - as noted by one of the Small Foxes, the Rabbits will require vegetables - and then to Bean's secret cider cellar. Here, they are nearly caught by the Beans' servant Mabel, and have an unpleasant confrontation with the cellar's resident, Rat. They carry their loot back home, where Mrs. Fox has prepared a great celebratory banquet for the starving underground animals and their families.\n\nAt the table, Mr. Fox invites everyone to live in a secret underground neighbourhood with him and his family, where he will hunt for them daily and where none of them will need to worry about the farmers any more. Everyone joyfully cheers for this idea, while Boggis, Bunce, and Bean are left waiting for the fox to emerge from his hole. The author concludes \"And so far as I know, they are still waiting.\"\n\nIn 1994, \"Fantastic Mr Fox\" was awarded the Read Aloud BILBY Award from the Children's Book Council of Australia.\n\nThe book was adapted into a film by director Wes Anderson. It was released in 2009 and features the voices of George Clooney as Mr. Fox, Meryl Streep as Mrs. Fox, Bill Murray as Badger, Robert Hurlstone as Boggis, Hugo Guinness as Bunce and Michael Gambon as Bean. The movie's plot focuses more on Mr. Fox's relationship to Mrs. Fox and his son, which is pitted against Mr. Fox's desire to steal chickens as a means of feeling like his natural self. The movie adds scenes before Mr. Fox attacks the three farmers and after their bulldozing of the hill, as well as a slightly altered ending and more background on Mr. Fox's past life as a thief of food. The Foxes' four children are replaced by Ash, a small and insecure fox who seeks his father's approval and Mr. Fox's nephew Kristofferson, who excels in athletics and is a source of jealousy for Ash.\n\nThe book was adapted into a play of the same name by David Wood and was first performed at the Belgrade Theatre in Coventry in 2001. The play is licensed (in the U.K. only) through Casarotto Ramsay Ltd. for repertory performances and Samuel French Ltd. for amateur performances.\n\nA musical adaptation of the book ran at the Nuffield Theatre in Southampton during Christmas 2016 before touring the U.K. in early 2017.\n\nTobias Picker adapted the book into an opera (the only adaptation with origins in the U.S.) which had its world premiere at the Los Angeles Opera performing 9–22 December in 1998. the Opera starred Gerald Finley as Mr Fox and Suzanna Guzman as Mrs Fox. A specially commissioned new version of this opera by Opera Holland Park was performed in the gardens and natural scenery of Holland Park in the summer of 2010 staged by Stephen Barlow. This version starred Grant Doyle as Mr. Fox, Olivia Ray as Mrs. Fox, Henry Grant Kerswell, Peter Kent and John Lofthouse as Farmers Boggis, Bunce and Bean.\n"}
{"id": "2082304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082304", "title": "Punchbowl railway station", "text": "Punchbowl railway station\n\nPunchbowl railway station is located on the Bankstown line, serving the Sydney suburb of Punchbowl. It is served by Sydney Trains T3 Bankstown line services.\n\nPunchbowl station opened on 14 April 1909, when the Bankstown line was extended from Belmore to Bankstown.\n\nUntil it closed in the early 1990s, the Punchbowl Maintenance Depot lay to the north-west of the station.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082313", "title": "Casady &amp; Greene", "text": "Casady &amp; Greene\n\nCasady & Greene, founded in 1984 by Robin Casady, was a software publisher of shareware products, primarily for the Macintosh. C&G published fonts in the earlier days of desktop publishing; founder Casady partnered with Michael Greene, founder of Greene Inc who developed QuickDex. An expansion into games came in 1987, when they published \"Crystal Quest\" by Patrick Buckland. This game marked their only foray into the Amiga market.\n\nOther software to follow were the security suite AME, crash recovery utility Crash Barrier, InfoGenie, iData, Let's Keep It Simple Spreadsheet (Let's KISS), Spreadsheet 2000, InstaFiles! and various games: \"Sky Shadow\", \"Mission Starlight\", \"Glider\", \"Aqua Blooper Piper\", \"Pararena\", \"Mission Thunderbolt\", \"Spaceway 2000\", \"Silicon Casino\", \"Glider PRO\", \"AmoebArena\", \"Step On It!\", \"Zone Warrior I and II\", and \"Crystal Crazy\".\n\nC&G was the initial distributor of SoundJam MP, a program which was the basis for Apple Computer's iTunes. They also distributed Conflict Catcher and Spell Catcher, popular tools for the Classic Mac OS.\n\nUnlike other Macintosh software companies such as Pangea Software and Ambrosia Software, Casady & Greene was unable to successfully transition from the classic Mac OS to the Unix-based Mac OS X, and the company closed its doors on July 3, 2003. Some of C&G's titles were remade for OS X, and a fraction of these have been remade to run on Intel-based Macs. Only a few of their titles were ever released on Windows.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082314", "title": "Unanimous consent", "text": "Unanimous consent\n\nIn parliamentary procedure, unanimous consent, also known as general consent, or in the case of the parliaments under the Westminster system, leave of the house (or leave of the senate), is a situation in which no member present objects to a proposal.\n\nGenerally, in a meeting of a deliberative assembly, business is conducted using a formal procedure of motion, debate, and vote. However, if there are no objections, action could be taken by unanimous consent. The procedure of asking for unanimous consent is used to expedite business by eliminating the need for formal votes on routine questions in which the existence of a consensus is likely. The principle behind it is that procedural safeguards designed to protect a minority can be waived when there is no minority to protect. \n\nIn non-legislative deliberative bodies operating under \"Robert's Rules of Order\", unanimous consent is often used to expedite the consideration of uncontroversial motions. It is sometimes used simply as a time-saving device, especially at the end of the session. Sometimes members do not want a formal recorded vote on the issue, or they know that they would lose such a vote and do not feel a need to take time on it.\n\nAction taken by unanimous consent does not necessarily mean that it was taken by a unanimous vote. It does not necessarily mean that every member of the body would have voted in favor of the proposal. It may mean that members feeling that it would be useless to oppose a matter would simply acquiesce.\n\nFor example, passing legislation via unanimous consent does not require that every member of a legislature, a majority of members or even a quorum of representatives to be present to vote. Unanimous consent merely requires that no representative of those present has asked to take a recorded vote or has requested quorum verification. For that reason, a claim that a piece of legislation was passed \"unanimously\", when it was really passed via \"unanimous consent\", can be misleading as to its level of support.\n\nCertain rights can only be waived by unanimous consent. For example, in disciplinary procedures, a single member can require the vote on the imposition of a penalty to be taken by ballot.\n\nWhen an item is before the assembly for action, such as a resolution, it is the right of every member to have it read once. Another case of this requirement is the reading of the minutes. Unanimous consent is required to not do the reading. Any member can request that the minutes be read and it would have to be done.\n\nA series of independent resolutions may be offered in a single motion. Unanimous consent is required to consider such a motion in one vote. Any member can demand a separate vote on one or more of the independent resolutions.\n\nUnanimous consent can be obtained by the chair asking if there are any objections to doing something. For instance, the chair may state, \"If there is no objection, the motion will be adopted. [pause] Since there is no objection, the motion is adopted.\" In Westminster parliaments, the wording could be \"There being no objection, leave is granted.\" On the most routine matters, such as inserting an article into the \"Congressional Record\" in Congress, the chairperson may shorten this statement to four words: \"Without objection, so ordered\" or even to two words: \"Without objection\" (). Another example of this practice in the House of Representatives is when a series of votes has been interrupted by a speaker or other business. The chair will state, \"Without objection, five minute voting will continue.\"\n\nIf no member objects, the motion is adopted. But if any member objects, the motion is not adopted and cannot be agreed to without a formal vote. Raising an objection does not necessarily imply that the objector disagrees with the proposal itself. They may simply believe that it would be better to take a formal vote. \n\nSometimes unanimous consent can be assumed if the chair perceives that no one would raise an objection if he formally asked. For instance, if it is obvious that the members of an assembly are absorbed in listening to a speaker who has exceeded the time limits on debate, but is about to conclude, the chair may allow the speaker to continue without interruption. \n\nObjections are sometimes used as a delaying tactic. The objector may have no disagreement with the proposal at issue, but chooses to object in order to force a time-consuming formal vote, which may include a period of debate as well.\n\nMany deliberative assemblies (e.g. city councils) use a procedure known as the \"consent agenda\". Matters believed to be noncontroversial are placed on the consent agenda, and they are all adopted by a single motion. If any member objects to one or more items on the consent agenda, the items objected to are removed from the consent agenda and handled in the ordinary course.\n\nUnanimous consent is frequently used to approve the minutes. If no one has corrections to the minutes, they are approved without a formal vote by unanimous consent. In this special case of unanimous consent, the only way to object to the approval of the minutes is to offer a correction to it.\n\nIn an election, if there is only one candidate and the rules do not require a ballot vote in that situation, the single candidate is declared elected by acclamation, or unanimous consent. In this special case of unanimous consent, the only way to object to the election of a candidate is to nominate and vote for someone else.\n\nA meeting could be adjourned by unanimous consent. If no one has any further business at the end of a meeting, the chair simply declares the meeting adjourned without a formal motion or a formal vote.\n\nIn parliaments under the Westminster system, leave of the house or leave of the senate is a similar concept to requiring unanimous consent. If a member asks for leave to be granted to do something that is different from the rules, a single objection can defeat the request.\n\nUnanimous consent may be used as part of a consensus decision-making process. In that process, unanimous consent does not necessarily mean unanimous agreement (see ).\n"}
{"id": "2082316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082316", "title": "Gervacio Santos", "text": "Gervacio Santos\n\nGervacio Santos is a Filipino film editor. During his career, he was considered one of the most demanded in his field. Gervacio has worked under numerous pseudonyms including: George Santos, Gerry Santos, Herb Bas, Bas Santos, and Bass Santos. He has earned numerous awards, including three Famas Awards for Kalibre 45 (1957), Cavalry Command (1963) and Scout Rangers (1964). He won Best Film Editing Awards in both the Metro Manila Film Festival for \"Remembrance\" and in the Quezon City Film Festival for \"Alyas Bagsik\".\n\nSantos began his professional career as an editor in 1954 at Premiere Productions where he was given the break to edit the film titled CONDE DE MONTECARLO starring ROGELIO DELA ROSA. He worked on \"Si Eva at si Adan\" directed by Gerry de Leon. As house Editors he edited an average of one feature film monthly, editing pictures directed by prominent movie directors including to name a few, Nemesio Caravana, Cesar Gallardo, Efren Reyes, Bert Avellana, Eddie Romero, Josefino Cenizal, others. In 1967, he left the studio and became employed by TAMARAW STUDIOS,Inc., owned and operated by Albert Joseph and his brothers. The studio have editing and laboratory facilities which cater to independent film productions including Tagalog Ilang Ilang Productions, AM (Amalia Fuentes) Productions, JE (Joseph Estrada) Productions among others. \nAs a free lancer he worked in every studio facilities such as LVN STUDIOS, SAMPAGUITA PICTURES, FIL-AM (Fernando Poe Productions) where other movie producers have their production filmed and processed for post production \n. By this time, Santos had edited several hundred full-length Filipino movies. Having established a good refutation American producers who came to shoot their movies in the Philippines hired him to edit their film. It is at this time that he shifted his attention to editing American movies, mostly with Roger Corman who co-produce with CIRIO SANTIAGO FILM ORGANIZATION. (IMDB have a partial list of the several movies he had edited for them. \n\nIn 1989, although he has an assignment with Cirio Santiago to edit 2 films, he, together with his family emigrated to Toronto, Ontario, Canada. He planned to come back to the country to fulfill the assignments but for some reason he had not made it. He and his family members are now full-pledged Canadian citizens.\n\nSantos is currently retired. He lives in Canada with his wife, five children, and five grandchildren. \nCirca 2012, Santos has been involved in the Toronto television show Fillipino, Eh! where he appeared in various comedy skits.\n\nx Movini's Venom (1970)\n"}
{"id": "2082317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082317", "title": "Eurasian pygmy shrew", "text": "Eurasian pygmy shrew\n\nThe Eurasian pygmy shrew (\"Sorex minutus\"), often known simply as the pygmy shrew, is a widespread shrew of northern Eurasia. It is the only shrew native to Ireland.\n\nActive throughout the day and night, the Eurasian pygmy shrew lives in undergrowth and leaf litter and lives off small insects and invertebrates. It has an average weight of 4 grams and has one of the highest metabolic rates of any animal, meaning it must eat at regular intervals — every two hours or so.\n\nThe breeding season lasts from April through to August. Females usually produce between two and eight young per litter and care for the young in an underground nest. Since the gestation period is just over three weeks, they can have up to five litters in one year, though the life span of a pygmy shrew is a little over 15 months.\n\nIn April 2008, the greater white-toothed shrew was discovered in Ireland. While the introduction of the species will possibly sustain threatened birds of prey, such as the barn owl, the nonnative mammal could threaten some of the smaller native species, such as the Eurasian pygmy shrew.\n"}
{"id": "2082324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082324", "title": "Arctic Research Office", "text": "Arctic Research Office\n\nThe Arctic Research Office (ARO) a division of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) run under the auspices of the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR).\n\nARO is the focal point for NOAA's research in the Arctic, Bering Sea, North Pacific and North Atlantic regions.\n\nIn 1996, the Congress of the United States appropriated one million USD to support an Arctic Research Initiative within NOAA. In cooperation with the Cooperative Institute for Arctic Research, NOAA's Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research used those funds to support research projects in two principal areas: natural variability of the Western Arctic/Bering Sea ecosystem, and anthropogenic influences on the Western Arctic/Bering Sea ecosystem. Support for the Arctic Research Initiative is ongoing.\n\nThe office administers the funds from the Arctic Research Initiative. It represents NOAA on the Interagency Arctic Research Policy Committee, leads U.S. involvement in the Arctic Monitoring & Assessment Programme, and provides a point of contact between NOAA and the Cooperative Institute and Assessment Program and the International Arctic Research Center.\n\nThe Russian-American Long-term Census of the Arctic is a joint-project between the Russian Academy of Sciences and NOAA. This project supports the Study of Environmental Arctic Change (SEARCH) program and the Ocean Exploration Program.\n\nThe Near-realtime Arctic Change Indicator Website provides information on the present state of the Arctic ecosystem and climate in historical context.\n\nThe ACOS project collects data from observing networks and uses that data to detect climate change activity. The observing networks are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082327", "title": "Salvatore Testa", "text": "Salvatore Testa\n\nSalvatore \"Salvie\" Testa (March 31, 1956 - September 14, 1984), nicknamed The Crowned Prince of the Philadelphia Mob, was a Philadelphia gangster who served as a hitman for the Philadelphia crime family during a period of internal gang conflict. The son of former Philadelphia boss Philip, Testa was an emerging figure in the mob until he was killed on the orders of boss Nicky Scarfo Sr.\n\nBorn on March 31, 1956, in Southwest Philadelphia, Testa was the son of Alfia Arcidiacono (1926–1980) and Philip \"Chicken Man\" Testa (1924–1981), a member of the Philadelphia family that served under Angelo Bruno. In 1974 he graduated from Saint John Neumann High School and he attended Temple University, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania for a year, and then went into the real estate business. Testa had one sister, Maria, who managed a Center City, Philadelphia nightclub and restaurant. In March 1980, longtime family boss Angelo Bruno was murdered and Testa's father became boss. The death of his father's predecessor, Angelo Bruno, triggered a violent civil war in the family between factions loyal to Harry Riccobene and Nicodemo Scarfo, who controlled the family's Atlantic City, New Jersey operations.\n\nOn March 15, 1981, Testa's father returned to his home in South Philadelphia that was across the street from the scenic Stephen Girard Park. As he was opening the door to his twin home at 2117 Porter Street, a nail bomb exploded under his front porch. His death was allegedly ordered by his underboss and drug trafficker Peter Casella and capo Frank Narducci Sr., which later resulted in Narducci being gunned down and Casella being banished from the Mob and fleeing to Florida.\n\nScarfo took over the crime family following Philip Testa's death, and he promoted Salvatore Merlino to underboss. On July 31, 1982, Salvatore Testa was wounded near his home in the Italian Market section by shotgun blasts fired from a speeding car. In 1984, Testa broke off his engagement to Merlino's daughter. Enraged, Merlino got permission from Scarfo to murder Testa, despite him being a loyal member of the crime family. However, Merlino developed a drinking problem, which caused Scarfo to demote Merlino and cut off ties with him.\n\nTesta allegedly sold an Atlantic City bar at twice the market value to Donald Trump in order for him to build the Trump Plaza (Atlantic City) in 1984.\n\nIn 1984, Scarfo ordered the death of Testa, one of his capos and top hitmen, as Testa's ambition and growing popularity made Scarfo feel threatened. On September 14, 1984, Testa was found shot to death at the side of a road in Gloucester Township, New Jersey. About 300 people attended Testa's funeral procession on September 20, 1984, at St. Paul's Catholic Church in Philadelphia's Italian Market section. He was interred alongside his father, Philip, and mother, Alfia, at the family plot at Holy Cross Cemetery in Yeadon, Pennsylvania.\n\nAs a result of Salvatore Testa's murder, Scarfo gained a reputation for disloyalty, and several criminal organizations across the United States began to distrust him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082333", "title": "Coyote Creek (Santa Clara County)", "text": "Coyote Creek (Santa Clara County)\n\nCoyote Creek is a river that flows through the Santa Clara Valley in California, United States.\n\nCoyote Creek was originally named Arroyo del Coyote by Padre Pedro Font when the de Anza Expedition reached it on Sunday, March 31, 1776.\n\nAlthough it is called a \"creek\", Coyote Creek is actually a river draining and running from the confluence of its East Fork and Middle Fork to southeast San Francisco Bay. The river's main source is on Mount Sizer near Henry W. Coe State Park and the surrounding hills in the Diablo Range, northeast of Morgan Hill, California. At the base of the Diablo Range, the creek is impounded by two dams, first Coyote Reservoir and then Anderson Lake. Nine major tributaries lie within the area that drains to these two reservoirs: Cañada de los Osos, Hunting Hollow, Dexter Canyon, and Larios Canyon Creeks drain to Coyote Reservoir; Otis Canyon, Packwood, San Felipe, Las Animas, and Shingle Valley Creeks drain to Anderson Lake. Coyote Reservoir Dam was built across the active 1000-ft wide trace of the Calaveras fault by the Santa Clara Valley Water District (SCVWD) between 1934–36, storing of water.\n\nFrom Anderson Lake, Coyote Creek continues northwards from Morgan Hill through Coyote Valley, the narrowest point between the Diablo Range and the coastal Santa Cruz Mountains, where it picks up Fisher Creek before entering San Jose. As Coyote Creek forms the eastern boundary of downtown San Jose, it winds its way into North San Jose. There, Silver Creek (including its tributaries Miguelita Creek and Thompson Creek), Penitencia Creek, and Berryessa Creek are all tributaries. Coyote Creek then bypasses the Newby Island landfill and empties into the San Francisco Bay.\n\nThere is a chain of parks along Coyote Creek called the Coyote Creek Park Chain, which contains the Coyote Creek Trail. The feasibility of a trail connecting the parks within this chain to Almaden Park was first examined in 1989.\n\nThe river is managed by the SCVWD. In 1983, torrential rains caused by el Niño resulted in significant flooding of Coyote Creek in the Alviso neighborhood. The SCVWD, with advice from Santa Clara Basin Watershed Management Initiative (WMI) stakeholders, produced a stream stewardship plan for the Coyote Creek watershed in 2002. The plan includes over sixty projects to benefit flood protection, habitat enhancement, parks, and trails.\n\nThe Silver Creek Fault runs generally parallel to Coyote Creek.\n\nUpdated findings from an ongoing study of Anderson Dam were released in October, 2010, indicated that the dam could fail if a magnitude 7.25 earthquake occurred within 2 kilometers of the dam, potentially releasing a wall of water high into downtown Morgan Hill in 14 minutes, and deep into San Jose within three hours. In response SCVWD has lowered the water to 54 percent full, which is below the dam crest. According to the SCVWD, remediation of the problem will likely require lengthy construction that would take up to six years and cost as much as $100 million.\n\nBecause Coyote Reservoir Dam was built right across the Calaveras fault and there is a substantial risk of a seismic-triggered landslide on the east side of the reservoir at the dam site, an earthquake could cause failure of this dam upstream of the Anderson Dam, and the release of water could increase risk of failure of the Anderson Dam.\n\nOn February 24, 2020, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ordered that Anderson Lake should be drained due to earthquake risk.\n\nAfter unusually heavy rainfalls, on February 20 and 21, 2017, the Anderson Reservoir reached as high as 104 percent of capacity, creating a large flow over the spillway into Coyote Creek, which overflowed and flooded neighborhoods of San Jose along US Highway 101 between the reservoir and the south San Francisco Bay.\n\nThe 2017 flood was the worst one since 1997. By 4 p.m. February 20, 2017, San Jose City opened an overnight shelter for residents who choose to voluntarily evacuate their homes in low-lying areas along Coyote Creek. Subsequent days, the city started issuing mandatory and advisory evacuation areas. On February 21, 2017, five people were rescued from the Coyote Creek floodwaters at Los Lagos Golf Course. The flood on that day forced the closure of US 101 in Morgan Hill. Twenty-eight horses were stranded at Cooksy Family Stables in South San Jose and at nearby Happy Hollow Park & Zoo in San Jose. Nearly 500 homes were evacuated at Senter Road and Phelan Avenue. The entire William Street park was flooded. A parking garage at San Jose International Airport was also flooded. About 14,000 people were forced out of their homes as a result of the flood. By February 23, 2017, nearly 4,000 people were still placed under evacuation orders. The creek reached a record height of .\n\nIn the weeks following the flood, citizen anger and anguish about the emergency response to the flood led to disagreements between the City of San Jose and the SCVWD. At a hearing at City Hall on March 9, 2017, the City took some responsibility for giving late evacuation notices to residents but also blamed the water district for giving them flawed information. For example, although the district had estimated that the flows would have to exceed 7400 cubic feet per second (209.6 m per second) for flooding to occur, flows peaked only slightly higher, at 7428 cubic feet per second (210.3 m per second), and only well after flooding had already commenced; flooding had commenced at less than two thirds of the district's stated capacity. Later in the month, the two parties disagreed about whose responsibility it is to maintain and repair the creek. , the damage from the flood is estimated to cost more than $100 million to repair.\n\nCoyote Creek has historically, and still does support the most diverse fish fauna among the Santa Clara Valley Basin watersheds. It supports 10 to 11 native fish species out of the original 18. Species known to occur currently include Pacific lamprey (\"Lampetra tridentata\"), steelhead/resident rainbow trout (\"Oncorhynchus mykiss\"), chinook salmon (\"Oncorhynchus tshawytscha\"), California roach, Hitch (\"Lavinia exilicauda\"), Sacramento blackfish (\"Orthodon microlepidotus\"), Sacramento pikeminnow, Sacramento sucker, three-spined stickleback, prickly sculpin (\"Cottus asper\"), riffle sculpin (\"Cottus gulosus\"), staghorn sculpin, and tule perch (\"Hysterocarpus traskii\"). Three species, the thicktail chub, splittail, and Sacramento perch have been extirpated from the drainage; the thicktail chub is extinct.\n\n1962 report indicated that Coyote Creek, from its mouth to the headwaters in Henry Coe State Park, was an historical migration route for steelhead trout. SCVWD studies have shown that Standish Dam and percolation ponds have posed barriers to outmigrating trout. Based on these results, the seasonal Standish Dam barrier has not been installed since 2000. The on-channel percolation ponds constructed on Coyote Creek severely degrade steelhead habitat by harboring non-native fish predators, such as largemouth bass (\"Micropterus salmoides\") which prey on salmonid fingerlings, and also by releasing warm water flows. Moving Ogier Ponds and Metcalf Percolation Ponds off-channel would significantly enhance rearing habitat for steelhead.\n\nIn December 2017 Professor Jerry Smith of San Jose State University, announced that anadromous steelhead trout had been extirpated from Coyote Creek. These fish had spawned and reared in the perennial flows in the few miles below Anderson Dam since its construction. Smith's report noted that no young steelhead, known as smolts, had been able to outmigrate for several years because of lack of flows from dam releases in May, the month of outmigration, even in wet years such as 2017. Lack of outmigration coupled with immigration barriers such as the Singleton Road overcrossing, which acts as a permanent passage barrier to spawning runs in all but a handful of days even in wet years, led to the loss of the creek's reproducing steelhead trout population. \n\nThe Chinook salmon run in Coyote Creek may be the most viable for restoration in the South Bay, since the breeding salmon in the Guadalupe River have severely declined subsequent to installation of extensive concrete channels in the river in downtown San Jose, California by the SCVWD. These are \"fall run\" fish primarily adapted to the Sacramento and San Joaquin River watersheds. Since Chinook salmon spawn in early winter and juveniles migrate to the ocean in their first spring, they are able to use habitats that turn very warm or have low water quality in summer. In 2012, the Santa Clara Valley Habitat Plan reported that Chinook salmon currently spawn in Coyote Creek as well as the Guadalupe River and its tributaries.\n\nCoho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch) were present in the Coyote Creek watershed until the 1950s, suggesting that some spawning and rearing habitat was located in the watershed downstream from Coyote Reservoir which was completed in 1936—blocking access to of upstream watershed. Historically, suitable habitat for coho salmon in the Coyote Creek watershed was likely restricted to the San Felipe Creek and Upper Penitencia Creek watersheds and possibly perennial reaches of Coyote Creek, and a few spring-fed tributaries upstream from Gilroy Hot Springs. Assuming the Coyote Percolation Reservoir was not a complete barrier to coho salmon; the construction of Anderson Dam in 1950 would have eliminated any coho salmon that occurred in the San Felipe Creek watershed that now flows into Anderson Lake. However, if the Coyote Creek Percolation Reservoir were a migration barrier, then only Upper Penitencia Creek would have provided suitable habitat for coho salmon after 1934. San Felipe Creek currently contains habitat potentially suitable to coho salmon with low stream temperatures related to cool groundwater discharges in the Calaveras Fault zone. During early June and late-July 1997, the senior author recorded water temperatures within the San Felipe Creek watershed within pools containing rainbow trout between and , respectively. Zones of groundwater discharge along the Calaveras Fault zone that traverses the watershed maintain cool summer water temperatures. Upper Penitencia Creek, which enters lower Coyote Creek near its mouth and drains the steep coastal hills to the east also may have contained suitable coho salmon habitat.\n\nA 1962 California Department of Fish and Wildlife report indicates that golden beaver (\"Castor canadensis subauratus\") lived in Coyote Creek historically. This report is consistent with Alexander McLeod's report on the progress of the first Hudson's Bay Company fur brigade sent to California in 1829, \"Beaver is become an article of traffic on the Coast as at the Mission of St. Joseph alone upwards of Fifteen hundred Beaver Skins were collected from the natives at a trifling value and sold to Ships at 3 Dollars\". Physical proof of golden beaver in south San Francisco Bay tributaries is a \"Castor canadensis subauratus\" skull in the Smithsonian Institution National Museum of Natural History collected by zoologist James Graham Cooper in Santa Clara, California on Dec. 31, 1855. Beaver recolonized Coyote Creek in 2018 (see photo of beaver dam), apparently using the Bay to move from the Guadalupe River watershed.\n\nA 1995 study showed high levels of toxic substances in receiving waters and sediments along urban areas of the creek versus undeveloped areas. This correlates to the density of storm drains suggesting that the pollution is from urban run-off.\n\nThe Friends of Coyote Creek community group merged with the South Bay Clean Creeks Coalition in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082334", "title": "Trio (1987 album)", "text": "Trio (1987 album)\n\nTrio is the first collaborative studio album by Dolly Parton, Emmylou Harris and Linda Ronstadt. It was released on March 2, 1987, by Warner Bros. Records. The album has sold over 4 million copies worldwide and has also received several accolades.\n\nLongtime friends and admirers of one another, Parton, Harris and Ronstadt first attempted to record an album together in the mid-1970s, but scheduling conflicts and other difficulties (including the fact that the three women all recorded for different record labels) prevented its release. \n\nSome of the fruits of those aborted 1970s recording sessions did make it onto the women's respective solo albums. \"Mr. Sandman\" and \"Evangeline\" appeared on Harris' album \"Evangeline\" and Parton's \"My Blue Tears\" was included on Ronstadt's 1982 album \"Get Closer\". Rodney Crowell's \"Even Cowgirls Get the Blues\" was on Harris' \"Blue Kentucky Girl\" album. \"Palms of Victory,\" another track from the aborted 1970s sessions, was included on the Harris' 2007 box set \"\". \n\nParton and Ronstadt also recorded a version of the traditional ballad \"I Never Will Marry\", which appeared on Ronstadt's 1977 \"Simple Dreams\" album, though that was recorded separately from these sessions, as was Ronstadt's cover of Hank Williams' \"I Can't Help It (If I'm Still in Love with You)\", from \"Heart Like a Wheel,\" on which she was joined by Harris. During this time, Ronstadt and Harris also covered a number of Parton's compositions — Harris covered \"Coat of Many Colors\" and \"To Daddy\", and Ronstadt recorded \"I Will Always Love You\"—for inclusion on their various solo albums during the mid- to late-1970s. Parton, in turn, covered Harris' \"Boulder to Birmingham\", including it on her 1976 album, \"All I Can Do\".\n\nFinally a collaboration effort came to fruition, being produced by George Massenburg. When \"Trio\" was released in March 1987, it spawned four hit singles–including a remake of Phil Spector's 1958 hit by the Teddy Bears, \"To Know Him Is to Love Him\".\n\n\"Billboard\" published a review in the issue dated March 14, 1987, which said, \"If the \"new traditionalists\" in country music still have a body of work to draw from, it's largely because these three celestial songbirds kept it alive\nand vibrant throughout the adulterated '70s. But the members of the trio are not resting on their reputations here; their album is stunningly beautiful on every cut. Crossover is certain and will most likely be instantaneous, fueled by Ronstadt's current ride atop the Hot 100–in a duet with James Ingram–with \"Somewhere Out There\".\"\n\nIn the March 14, 1987 issue of \"Cashbox\" a review was published that said, \"The long-awaited collaboration of three of country/pop’s greatest voices is an unqualified success. The near-perfect song selection gives the three ample room to develop subtleties and nuance that in places is heart rending (listen to \"Telling Me Lies\"). These three singular voices blend together in seamless harmony, floating over the sweetest country melodies and poignant understated lyrics. Augmented by an assemblage of some of the best sidemen available, including Albert Lee and Mark O’Connor among them.\"\n\nThe album peaked at No. 1 on the US \"Billboard\" Top Country Albums chart and remained there for five consecutive weeks. The album also peaked at No. 6 on the US \"Billboard\" 200 chart. In Canada the album peaked at No. 4 on the \"RPM\" Top Albums chart. The album also saw success in Sweden where it peaked at No. 29 on the Sverigetopplistan Albums Top 60 chart and in the UK where it peaked at No. 60 on the Official Charts Company UK Albums Chart.\n\nThe album's first single, \"To Know Him Is to Love Him\", was released in January 1987 and peaked at No. 1 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot Country Singles chart. The single also peaked at No. 1 in Canada on the \"RPM\" Country Singles chart. The second single, \"Telling Me Lies\", was released in May 1987 and peaked at No. 3 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot Country Singles chart, No. 35 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot Adult Contemporary chart and No. 6 in Canada on the \"RPM\" Country Singles chart. \"Those Memories of You\" was released as the third single in August 1987 and it peaked at No. 5 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot Country Singles chart and No. 1 in Canada on the \"RPM\" Country Singles chart. The album's fourth and final single, \"Wildflowers\", was released in March 1988 and peaked at No. 6 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot Country Singles chart and No. 8 in Canada on the \"RPM\" Country Singles chart.\n\nThe album won the Grammy Award for Best Country Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal. It was also nominated for Album of the Year alongside Michael Jackson, U2, Prince and Whitney Houston. \"Telling Me Lies\" was also nominated for Best Country Song. The album won the 1987 Academy of Country Music Award for Album of the Year and won Vocal Event of the Year at the Country Music Association Awards at the 1988 ceremony.\n\n30th Annual Grammy Awards\n\n22nd Annual Academy of Country Music Awards\n\n22nd Country Music Association Awards\n\nAdapted from the album liner notes.\n\nAlbum\nSingles\n"}
{"id": "2082335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082335", "title": "Twelve (novel)", "text": "Twelve (novel)\n\nTwelve is a 2002 novel by Nick McDonell about drug addiction, violence and sex among mainly wealthy Manhattan teenagers. The title refers to a new designer drug. The drug is referred to as a cross between cocaine and ecstasy. While Twelve follows the lives of a number of wealthy young adults, it centres on that of 17-year-old drug-dealer White Mike.\n\nWhite Mike: Philosophical 17-year-old drug dealer who roams the streets of New York, peddling marijuana to rich teens. His mother died of cancer before the novel begins and his father is almost never around, leaving White Mike to his own devices. White Mike is very intelligent and never uses drugs, including alcohol. Wears an overcoat and jeans. He is the cousin of Charlie with whom he spent much time in their childhood. Shot by Lionel at the end of the book, but survives and goes to Paris to finish his studies.\n\nHunter McCulloch: Hunter is White Mike's closest friend. He is described as a beefy kid who often plays basketball at the rec center with black kids. At the beginning of the novel, he gets into a fight with a kid named Nana at the rec, and ends up splattered with a large amount of Nana's blood. When Nana is murdered shortly after, he is the prime suspect, but is later cleared of all charges.\n\nChris: A plain 17-year-old young man who desperately wishes to lose his virginity to Sara Ludlow the hottest girl in his school. He is hated by many people but well known for throwing large parties.\n\nClaude: Chris's brother. A psychopath, gun nut and ex-cocaine abuser who collects bladed weapons, which he buys from a shop in Chinatown. Illegally buys an Uzi and goes on a shooting spree during a party at his house at the climax of the book, killing several of the party goers. Shot by police shortly after.\n\nJessica: A plain girl who frequents many parties and becomes addicted to the drug Twelve. Agrees to sleep with Lionel during the climactic house party for more twelve when she cannot pay for it. Fate unknown.\n\nAndrew: Friend of Hunter who is injured at a skating rink. Meets Sara Ludlow at the hospital and is highly attracted to her. Not a party person, but goes to parties to meet girls. Killed by Claude.\n\nSara Ludlow: The hottest girl in school. Sara is highly promiscuous and uses her feminine traits to get what she wants from Andrew and Chris. Fate unknown, presumably killed by Claude.\n\nLionel: Murderous drug customer who buy drugs from Mike and his cousin Charlie. Described as having yellow and brown bloodshot eyes. Kills Charlie and Nana at the beginning of the book. Hunter is blamed for the murders. Agrees to sleep with Jessica in exchange for twelve. Shoots White Mike with Charlie's gun and is killed by Claude as he tries to flee.\n\nMolly: A friend of White Mike's who does not know he is a drug dealer. Very pure, never uses drugs or goes to parties.\nKilled by Claude.\n\nTimmy and Mark Rothko: Two wanna-be black boys who buy marijuana from White Mike. Speak in exaggerated hip-hop slang. Both killed by Claude.\n\nCharlie: White Mike's cousin who got him into drug dealing. Killed by Lionel.\n\nTwelve is the story of 17-year-old White Mike, the privileged son of a restaurant tycoon. His mother succumbed to breast cancer several years before the novel began. White Mike is a drug dealer who has taken his senior year in high school off to sell marijuana to his wealthy peers. When he is not selling drugs he is reminiscing of his childhood and philosophizing about a world he feels he is not a part of.\n\nThe novel takes place over a five-day period in December 1999, beginning on the night of the 27th and ending on New Year's Eve. It is told in a 3rd person narrative and follows not just White Mike but many other characters, but despite this White Mike is the central figure in the book.\n\nThe novel begins with White Mike thinking about his deceased mother and musing about the state of New York in the Winter. He then visits the rec center, where Hunter, a friend of his has gotten into a fight with a black basketball player named Nana. The fight ends with both covered in copious amounts of each other's blood. White Mike and Hunter head to a nearby Goody's, where they discuss college. White Mike then leaves to make a sale.\n\nHunter then leaves and goes home, thinking about the fight with Nana while listening to James Taylor on his discman. At home he makes sporadic conversation with his father, who is quite wealthy and a borderline alcoholic. Hunter then leaves the apartment and goes for a walk.\n\nThe narrative then shifts to Nana, who is going home to his apartment in the Harlem housing projects. Before he can get into his building he witnesses a drug deal between two shady characters, a pale white boy and a heavy black man. The deal then erupts into violence when the heavy man shoots the pale boy with a gun wrapped in a hand towel. Nana tries to escape but is killed as well by the heavy man, who pockets the pale boy's revolver before fleeing the scene.\n\nWe then shift to Sara Ludlow, the \"hottest girl in school\" and her girlfriends as they head to a party. They discuss school and their friends.\n\nWhite Mike is at the party. He sells some pot to Chris, the boy throwing the party, but declines Chris's invitation to come in. After wondering how smart Sara Ludlow is, he leaves, musing about how rich everyone is.\n\nWe then meet Chris, the boy throwing the party, a 17-year-old boy desperate to lose his virginity. There is an overview of the party and we then meet Jessica, a school mate of Sara and Chris who heads to the bathroom to do some cocaine. Instead of cocaine she does a drug given to her by a boy. The drug is called Twelve. She takes some and is overwhelmed by the high that follows. She compares it to the first time she read The Gettysburg Address before passing out.\n\nThe narrative shifts to Claude, Chris's brother, and Tobias, a male model, taking a trip through China Town. They smoke some pot together and then buy bladed weapons at a shop. Claude takes home his weapons and arranges them in his closet, all in perfect order like some private shrine.\n\nThe corpses of Nana and the pale boy are found. After talking with some boys who witnessed the fight at the rec center, two detectives place Hunter under arrest because of the blood still on his clothes.\n\nJessica wakes up and heads to the skating rink with some girlfriends. Once there, she accidentally injures a boy named Andrew by cutting his forehead with her skate. Andrew is taken to the hospital and the girls leave the rink. Jessica calls Chris and asks for White Mike's phone number, telling him that she wants more of the drug she had the party, Twelve.\n\nAt the hospital, Andrew undergoes surgery and is placed in a room for an overnight stay. He is placed in the same room as Sean, the high school football star who happens to be Sara Ludlow's boyfriend. Sean was involved in a car accident. Sara arrives to visit him and strikes up a conversation with Andrew. Andrew loans her his Dave Matthews Band CD, thinking it will make a good excuse to see her again.\n\nSara then goes to see Chris. She asks him to host another, bigger party on New Year's Eve, since his parents are out of town. Chris is apprehensive, but Sara tempts him with sexual favors so he gives in.\n\nWhite Mike meets Jessica with Lionel, a mysterious drug dealer who supplies Mike with Marijuana. Lionel sells the Twelve to Jessica, who asks for Lionel's beeper number in case she wants more; Lionel gives her the number.\n\nWhite Mike and Lionel then converse about Charlie, White Mike's cousin who got him into drug dealing and is away at College. It is revealed here that Lionel killed Charlie and Nana. He tells White Mike he has not seen Charlie, and departs.\n\nTobias heads to a shoot at the modelling agency. There he meets Molly, a fellow model who he is interested in. He takes Molly to Chris and Claude's where he is keeping his flesh-eating piranhas. After showing her the fish, he invites her to the New Year's Eve party and she agrees.\n\nHunter is placed under arrest for the murders of Nana and Charlie since the blood on his clothes is verified as Nana's. He finds he does not have an alibi.\n\nChris and Claude go to a cocktail party hosted by their aunt. Chris converses with a wannabe-author friend of his aunt's about The Beatles and Eminem.\n\nAfter the party Claude returns to China Town with Tobias and illegally buys an Uzi submachine gun from one of the shops.\n\nChris is having a boxing lesson when Sara shows up, requesting money for some Twelve which she will give to Jessica. Chris reluctantly gives her the money.\n\nMolly visits White Mike, who is a good friend of hers even though she is unaware of his \"profession\". She tells him about Tobias and the party. White Mike gently tries to dissuade her from going.\n\nAndrew is bored so he goes for a walk and ends up in Carl Schurz park where he meets and eccentric old man named Sven. He plays a game of chess with Sven, who beats him. Andrew feels he is being insulted by Sven and tries to leave, but Sven insists on taking him to a nearby pub for a drink. He does. At the bar, Andrew and Sven drink Scotch and Sodas and discuss school and Sven's old life as a merchant sailor. Feeling weirded out, Andrew leaves.\n\nWhite Mike is walking home and sees Captain, a homeless bodybuilding black man, injuring himself by hitting a brick wall and calls an ambulance.\n\nThat morning, Andrew calls Sara under the guise of getting his CD back. She invites him to Chris's party and asks him to bring weed. Andrew does not smoke pot but decides to score some anyway.\n\nWe are then introduced to Timmy and Mark Rothko, two unlikely wanna-be \"cool kids\" who get their kicks stealing CDs, smoking weed and speaking in an exaggerated hip-hop vernacular. They contact White Mike with the intent of buying some weed.\n\nWhite Mike has a phone conversation with an old friend of his and Hunter's, Warren, and then decides to take a train ride down to Coney Island.\n\nThe perspective shifts to Sean, who has to go to the hospital for a check-up on his broken arm. He takes a taxi and is annoyed by the driver.\n\nWhite Mike goes to Coney Island and observes people. Back on the train he gets the call from Timmy and Mark Rothko.\n\nJessica wakes up and watches the talk shows. She enjoys watching the \"dregs of humanity\" on television and holds a fake talk show with her stuffed animals in which she comments on a fictional school massacre. Here we are given the impression that Jessica may not be all there.\n\nTimmy and Mark Rothko stop to buy cigarette usings a fake I.D. It fails and they threaten the store clerk, who in turn pulls an empty revolver on them. They leave all too quickly.\n\nJessica has lunch with her mother, who advises she visits a psychiatrist. She reluctantly agrees and wonders what she will tell her psychiatrist.\n\nWhite Mike sells some weed to Timmy and Mark Rothko, who both irritate and amuse him with their lifestyle.\n\nIn jail, Hunter finally contacts his father through Andrew's father. Hunter tells his father he is frightened. Hunter's father remembers an incident that happened when he was in school, when a boy died at a drunken fireside party.\n\nWhite Mike meets Andrew at the amphitheatre and sells him weed. White Mike is curious as to why Andrew is buying it. Andrew tells him it is for a girl.\n\nAndrew wakes up and decides to get a haircut. He does, then at home decides he looks bad. He decides to go to the party and resolves to get himself drunk.\n\nChris goes out and buys toiletries and condoms, thinking that tonight will be the night that he loses his virginity. He goes home and throws out his collection of pornography.\n\nTimmy and Mark Rothko call White Mike for more weed. They follow him to his house, much to his annoyance. He gives them their weed and they talk about birds. Mark Rothko and Timmy then go to the supermarket and smash a container of Marshmallow fluff.\nWhite Mike receives a call from his dad telling him Charlie is dead. White Mike breaks down and wonders who could have done it.\nJessica prepares for the party and to score more Twelve.\n\nAt the party, Jessica gives her cell phone to a girl who beeps White Mike for weed. White Mike rushes over.\n\nAndrew and Molly meet in the kitchen and grow closer, deciding to head out for pizza when Lionel arrives.\n\nLionel and Jessica go upstairs and she realises she does not have enough for a bag. She offers to have sex with Lionel in exchange.\n\nWhite Mike arrives at the party and in a fit of rage trashes the house stereo. He punches Chris when Chris attempts to kick him out.\n\nHe bursts in on Lionel and Jessica, who are having sex. Lionel pulls Charlie's revolver, which he took from the murder scene, on White Mike. White Mike realises Lionel killed Charlie and attacks him, only to be shot.\n\nThe gunshot causes Claude to snap, and he leaves his room armed with his submachine gun and sword. He goes on a rampage, killing many of the partygoers including Mark Rothko, Timmy, Andrew and Molly. After charging through the house, he steps outside and opens fire on the police, who fatally shoot him on the spot.\n\nAn afterword by White Mike explains that he underwent surgery for his wound and survived. It also states that Hunter was cleared of all charges after the bullets from Lionel's gun were examined. He also explains that he is now studying in Paris and that he likes it better than New York.\n\nAfter the title page is the inscription, \"Dedicated to my father.\" The next page reads, \"Can we please all stand and have a moment of silence for those students who died? And can we now have a moment of silence for those students who killed them?\"\n\nThe novel was adapted into a 2010 film of the same name directed by Joel Schumacher and starring Chace Crawford, Kiefer Sutherland, Emma Roberts and 50 Cent. Hannover House distributed the film in the United States, opening in 231 theaters on September 6, 2010.\n"}
{"id": "2082336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082336", "title": "Wadhwan", "text": "Wadhwan\n\nWadhwan is a city and a municipality in Surendranagar district in the Indian state of Gujarat.\n\n India census, Wadhwan city had a population of 61,739. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Wadhwan city has an average literacy rate of 71%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 78%, and female literacy is 63%. In Wadhwan city, 12% of the population is under 6 years of age.\n\nIt is located on the bank of the dry Bhogavo River.\n\nWadhwan or Vadhwan city is a part of the Surendranagar district of Gujarat located about 111 km from the town of Ahmedabad, some 3 km distant from Surendranagar city. The town is situated on the banks of the Bhogavo River. Vadhwan is a known location for its old world royal charm and serene space with a life and culture of its own.\n\nVadhwan rulers belonged to the Jhala Rajput clans and had good administrative and culturally inclined society. To provide sufficient protection to their clan and the people, the town of Vadhwan was fortified and gates were erected at most places to provide safety. Some of these gates and the fortified walls are still found in the city, although city has grown beyond these walls. Vadhwan was the centre of the princely state by the same name, which in earlier days was known as Vardhamanpuri, the name being derived from the great Jain Thirthankaras, Bhagwan Vardhaman. The prime ministers of this princely state belonged to the Rawal family who were given the title of Dewan Bahadur. Under their rule, a number of important structures were constructed, mostly during the era of 18th and 19th century.\nVadhwan is considered as an important centre for Jains and is renowned as one of the fortified towns of Gujarat. Formerly known as Vardhamanpuri, the town is believed to have footprints of Lord Mahavir. The Raj Mahal and Hawa Mahal were constructed here by the erstwhile rulers of the region.\n\nThe Raj Mahal was the residence of His Highness Balsinhji in the 19th century, replete with exotic gardens, cricket pitches, fountains, tennis courts and lily ponds. The Raj Mahal is now functioning as a heritage hotel.\n\nSeveral members of the Thakar family served as Dewans (Prime Ministers) of the princely state, most prominent amongst them being Vishwanath Thakar and Khodidas Thakar in the 19th century.\n\nHawa Mahal, \"the wind palace\" was built during the era of Jhala rulers. Even though it was an ambitious project with ultimate craftsmanship, the work was left incomplete. The part which is incomplete is outside the actual fort and is in different stages of construction along with the study of architectural designs, which were stopped midway. These give a glimpse into the style of architecture used by the artisans in erecting Hawa Mahal. In the present day also, many of the Sompura artisans whose community built Hawa mahal are seen involved in carvings and cutting of sculptures for various Hindu and Jain temple projects. [Sompura Salat community was one of the Brahmin communities in Gujarat who were master artisans. They built famous Somnath Temple. In recent years, these artisans have been called upon for restoration work of various temples in Gujarat as well as in other parts of India, and also building new temples.]\n\nVadwala Temple here is some 450 years old.\n\n11th century Gangva Kund at Dedadara village is believed to have been constructed during the Chalukya period.\n\nThe popular ancient Gangavav step-well is believed to have been constructed in Vikram Samvat in 1969. There is Lakhavav also.\n\nMadhavav is popular stepwell for its historical significance. It is believed that the son and daughter-in-law of King Sarang Dev sacrificed their lives here for the natives of the region. The Automobile Library, Wagheshwari Devi Temple and Swami Narayan Temple are some of the prominent attractions located in the vicinity of Wadhwan.\nDuring the British Raj, Wadhwan State was one of several princely states governed by the Jhala Rajput. It was classified as a 9-gun salute state.\n\nC. U. Shah University is a private university located in Wadhwan city. It is run by Vardhman Bharti Trust and named after Chimanlal Ujamshibhai Shah. It had been created by the state of Gujarat under the Private University Amendment Bill in 2013.\nDajiraj HighSchool is old Education institute in WADHWAN State. That's are establish to since in 1885. Other Education institute in WADHWAN is ladkibai kanya vidhyalay it's found of jorawarsinhji in since 1921, NATIONAL SCHOOL IS FOUNDED BY GANDHIJI IN 1925 SINCE.\n\nFreedom At Midnight\n"}
{"id": "2082347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082347", "title": "Wilbert Doneleyko", "text": "Wilbert Doneleyko\n\nWilbert George Doneleyko (February 13, 1913 – January 27, 1990), last name also spelled Doneley, was a politician in Manitoba, Canada.\n\nBorn in Rossburn, Manitoba, he was educated there and worked for the Manitoba Co-operative Honey Producers Limited as a warehouse manager. Doneleyko served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1945 to 1949 as a member of the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation. He was defeated by Nicholas Stryk when he ran for reelection in 1949 as an independent. He was expelled from the CCF caucus for publicly opposing NATO activities in Europe. In 1945, Doneleyko ran unsuccessfully as a CCF candidate for the Springfield seat in the Canadian House of Commons.\n\nHe died in Victoria, British Columbia in 1990 at the age of 76. He had been suffering from chronic lymphocytic leukemia, nephrotic syndrome and renal failure.\n"}
{"id": "2082349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082349", "title": "Polytechnic Institute of Porto", "text": "Polytechnic Institute of Porto\n\nThe Instituto Politécnico do Porto (Polytechnic Institute of Porto), also referred to as Politécnico do Porto (Porto Polytechnic) and P.PORTO (since 2016, for naming and branding purposes), is a higher learning Portuguese institution composed of diverse polytechnic schools based in Porto. The Porto Polytechnic developed as a metropolitan institution with schools in Porto, Matosinhos, Póvoa de Varzim, Vila do Conde and Felgueiras.\n\nPorto Polytechnic was created in Porto in 1985 and its objective was to relaunch the polytechnic studies in Portugal. The Polytechnic started with two schools: the School of Education and the School of Music. In 1988, the ISCAP (Institute of Accountancy and Administration) and one year later the ISEP (Institute of Engineering), two schools founded in the 19th century were integrated. Today, it is the largest polytechnic institute of Portugal, with seven schools and 15,729 students enrolled for the 2007-2008 school-year.\n\nThe Porto Polytechnic is organized as a confederation of polytechnic schools. In the school year of 2003/2004 the Polytechnic had 15,000 students, a third of them in its major college, the ISEP. It also had about 1000 teachers. 7000 students competed to enter in that year and 2000 entered.\n\nP.PORTO rank fourth among first-choice higher education institutions, and fifth in number of students.\n\nIn 1852, the Porto Industrial School, later called the Porto Commercial and Industrial Institute, is established. In 1918, the Industrial Institute and the Commercial Institute separate formally. Their names, as we know them today, are created only 60 years later. In 1975, the Porto Industrial Institute changes its name to Porto School of Engineering and is integrated in the university education system. In 1976, the same happens with the Commercial Institute: it changes its name to Porto Accounting and Business School and is also integrated in the university education system. In 1985, the Polytechnic Institute of Porto is established, integrating the newly-created Porto School of Education and Porto School of Music. The latter changed its name in 1994 to School of Music and the Performing Arts, so as to integrate other forms of art, besides music. In 1988, both the Accounting and Business School and the School of Engineering are integrated in the polytechnic subsystem. Two years later, in 1990, the School of Management and Industrial Studies is created with two buildings, one in Póvoa de Varzim and one in Vila do Conde. It is only in 2001 that this school unites under a new single building, located between the municipalities of Vila do Conde and Póvoa de Varzim. In 1999, the School of Management and Technology is established in Felgueiras and, in 2004, the School of Healthcare Technology of Porto is integrated.\n\nPorto Campus 1 is located in Asprela in the far north of the city and in downtown Porto.\n\n\nP.PORTO has 24 scientific research groups in its eight Schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082354", "title": "Bézout matrix", "text": "Bézout matrix\n\nIn mathematics, a Bézout matrix (or Bézoutian or Bezoutiant) is a special square matrix associated with two polynomials, introduced by and and named after Étienne Bézout. Bézoutian may also refer to the determinant of this matrix, which is equal to the resultant of the two polynomials. Bézout matrices are sometimes used to test the stability of a given polynomial.\n\nLet formula_1 and formula_2 be two complex polynomials of degree at most \"n\",\n(Note that any coefficient formula_4 or formula_5 could be zero.) The Bézout matrix of order \"n\" associated with the polynomials \"f\" and \"g\" is \nwhere the entries formula_7 result from the identity\n\nIt is in formula_9 and the entries of that matrix are such that if we let formula_10 for each formula_11, then:\n\nTo each Bézout matrix, one can associate the following bilinear form, called the Bézoutian:\n\n\nThe last row and column are all zero as \"f\" and \"g\" have degree strictly less than \"n\" (equal 4). The other zero entries are because for each formula_18, either formula_4 or formula_5 is zero.\n\n\nAn important application of Bézout matrices can be found in control theory. To see this, let \"f\"(\"z\") be a complex polynomial of degree \"n\" and denote by \"q\" and \"p\" the real polynomials such that \"f\"(i\"y\") = \"q\"(\"y\") + i\"p\"(\"y\") (where \"y\" is real). We also note \"r\" for the rank and \"σ\" for the signature of formula_31. Then, we have the following statements:\n\nThe third statement gives a necessary and sufficient condition concerning stability. Besides, the first statement exhibits some similarities with a result concerning Sylvester matrices while the second one can be related to Routh–Hurwitz theorem.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082358", "title": "Großbeeren", "text": "Großbeeren\n\nGroßbeeren is a municipality in the district of Teltow-Fläming in the German state of Brandenburg.\n\nLocated about 3 km south of Berlin's city limits. It includes the localities of \"Diedersdorf\", \"Heinersdorf\" and \"Kleinbeeren\".\n\nGroßbeeren was first mentioned in a 1271 deed. It was devastated in the Thirty Years' War and again in 1760, when Russian and Habsburg troops in the course of the Seven Years' War burnt down the church and several houses.\n\nOn 23 August 1813 the Sixth Coalition under Crown Prince Charles John of Sweden and General Friedrich Wilhelm Freiherr von Bülow defeated three corps of the Imperial French Army under Marshal Nicolas Oudinot in their advance on Berlin at the Battle of Großbeeren. A memorial tower in the village centre was erected on the hundredth anniversary in 1913. Furthermore, a fieldstone pyramid from 1906 on a pasture west of Großbeeren is dedicated to General von Bülow.\n\nIn September 1942 the Gestapo established a labour camp in Großbeeren, where at least 1197 forced labourers from Belgium, Czechoslovakia, France, Poland, Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union were killed. Werner Seelenbinder was imprisoned here in 1943.\n\nGroßbeeren shared its borders with the former West Berlin, and so during the period 1961-1990 it was separated from it by the Berlin Wall.\n\nThe municipality houses the Institute of Vegetable and Ornamental Crops (\"IGZ\") of the Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Scientific Community.\n\nGroßbeeren can be reached via the Bundesstraße 101 federal highway. It has also access to the Berlin–Halle railway. A large logistics complex serves for storage and distribution of goods addresses to Berlin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082363", "title": "Rainforest Shmainforest", "text": "Rainforest Shmainforest\n\n\"Rainforest Shmainforest\" is the third season premiere of Comedy Central's animated series \"South Park\". It originally aired on April 7, 1999 and is the 32nd episode overall. This episode features Jennifer Aniston providing the voice for Miss Stevens. The episode criticizes the American Movement to Save the Rain Forest and, in typical tongue-in-cheek fashion, mocks the manner in which the country of Costa Rica is perceived, and often portrayed (e.g. in domestic entertainment media), by Americans. The episode's title includes a shm-reduplication.\n\nThis episode was inspired by Trey Parker's personal intense distaste towards rainforests, which he formed after a visit to Costa Rica. Parker explains on the DVD commentary that, at the suggestion of Flea, Parker and his girlfriend went to Costa Rica and hated the area, and that everything Cartman says about the rainforests during the episode is how he (Parker) personally feels.\n\nThe episode is also filled with famous environmentalist clichés, such as, \"We must take only photos and leave only footprints\", \"It's more afraid of us than we are of it\", and \"We have to respect mother nature and she will respect us\".\n\nMiss Stevens (voiced by Jennifer Aniston), the leader of the \"Getting Gay With Kids\" environmentalist choir tour, visits South Park Elementary, trying to recruit more kids to the group. The boys get themselves into trouble after calling the choir names and belittling their cause. They are sent to the office, where Mr. Mackey punishes the boys by forcing them to join the choir, since he happens to be on the board of directors. Kenny is the only one who is happy about it, since he has developed a crush on a girl in the choir named Kelly.\n\nThe choir goes to San José, Costa Rica, to tour, where Miss Stevens tells Cartman that she plans on changing his views on third-world countries. Upon arriving, Cartman immediately starts to make trouble, including yelling at Costa Ricans, directing everyone's attention to prostitutes and commenting that San Jose \"smells like ass.\" The children get to meet the Costa Rican President and do a preview dance routine for some citizens of San Jose (with a pre-recorded song for the kids to lip-sync to), but Miss Stevens is dismayed by Kyle's lack of coordination. Cartman offers the opinion that Kyle cannot dance because he is Jewish, and \"Jewish people don't have any rhythm.\" Kyle angrily denies this as a stereotype, but Stan wonders if it is true, making Kyle fear that it is.\n\nThe children then take a tour to see the \"wonders\" of the rainforest. Cartman starts hitting the animals that live in their natural habitats, irritating Miss Stevens. Eventually, their tour guide is killed, eaten, and excreted by a coral snake, all surprisingly in the space of less than a minute, leaving Miss Stevens and the children on their own in the jungle. Cartman hits the snake on the head, which causes it to temporarily chase him, likely to try and do the same thing to him as it did to their tour guide. They run into a group of guerrilla rebels and try to convince them to help them get back to San José, but the leader merely criticizes and insults them. When government troops arrive, the choir has to run away. After more time spent wandering lost, Cartman announces that he is leaving the \"hippie\" group. Only moments later, he finds a friendly crew of construction workers tearing down trees and tells them all about the group getting lost, though not before asking for food. Meanwhile, Kelly takes Kenny to one side and admits her feelings for him, but tries to stop herself from going too far, which annoys Kenny, as she lives on the other side of the USA and cannot manage a long-distance relationship.\n\nBack in San José, the concert is about an hour away from starting, and the President stalls for time by telling poorly-thought-out \"Polak\" jokes. Miss Stevens and the remaining children are captured by a tribe of tiny natives called the Yanagapa (a phonetic parody of the South American indigenous demonym Yanomama), who offer up Miss Stevens, now dressed in a Stanford-looking cheerleading outfit, as an offering to a giant native, with Kelly voicing that this offering is more than likely that of a sexual nature. At this point, Miss Stevens changes her mind and decides that the rainforest is not such a good place, after all. She screams profanities about everything rainforest-related, much to the shock of the natives (and to the boys' annoyance over how long it had taken for her to \"get it\"). Just then, Cartman and the construction workers arrive to destroy the village and save the children. Just as Kelly is making arrangements with Kenny over maintaining a long-distance relationship, he is immediately struck and nearly killed by a bolt of lightning. Afterwards, Kyle and Stan say their usual lines, but Kelly asks them who \"they\" are, since Kenny was struck by lightning, not people. Kyle and Stan are unable to answer her, claiming: \"You know, They. They're bastards.\" Frustrated, Kelly asks them to help Kenny, but the two are fulfilling their usual role on the show, outraging Kelly even more. She then desperately attempts CPR and successfully saves Kenny, to the amazement of Stan and Kyle. With this result, Kenny has successfully survived an entire episode for the second time (the first time being \"Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo\").\n\nWhen the group escapes the forest, Miss Stevens and the children are so happy to leave the jungle that they change their tune: different lyrics are applied to the original song, which now rebukes the rainforest rather than praises it. It meets with a positive response from the audience, as if they were still singing rainforest activism. The episode ends with a message telling people about the dangers of the rainforest and to help stop it.\n\nDespite the episode airing in 1999 in the U.S. and a few years later in Latin America, the episode caused some controversy in February 2007 over the comments that Cartman made about Costa Rica saying that the town of San Jose \"smells like ass\" and the way the creators show the country full of \"prostitutes, shantytowns, and trash.\" The Costa Rican Government was reportedly \"not amused\" with this episode. \nAndy Patrizio of IGN wrote \"Rainforest Shmainforest, is one of my favorites [of the third season]...Hearing [guest voice Jennifer Aniston] lose it at the end, with Stan's line \"Now she gets it\" was just a hoot.\" DVD Verdict wrote \"\"Rainforest Schmainforest\" is a hilarious take on Up with People, ecological activists, and foreign cultures\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2082369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082369", "title": "Common shrew", "text": "Common shrew\n\nThe common shrew (\"Sorex araneus\"), also known as the Eurasian shrew, is the most common shrew, and one of the most common mammals, throughout Northern Europe, including Great Britain, but excluding Ireland. It is long and weighs , and has velvety dark brown fur with a pale underside. Juvenile shrews have lighter fur until their first moult. The common shrew has small eyes, a pointed, mobile snout and red-tipped teeth. It has a life span of approximately 14 months.\n\nShrews are active day and night, taking short periods of rest between relatively long bursts of activity.\n\nCommon shrews are found throughout the woodlands, grasslands, and hedgelands of Britain, Scandinavia, and Eastern Europe. Each shrew establishes a home range of 370 to 630 m² (440 to 750 yd²). Males often extend the boundaries during the breeding season to find females. Shrews are extremely territorial and will aggressively defend their home ranges from other shrews. They make their nests underground or under dense vegetation..\n\nThe common shrew's carnivorous and insectivorous diet consists of insects, slugs, spiders, worms, amphibians and small rodents. Shrews need to consume 200 to 300% of their body weight in food each day in order to survive. A shrew must eat every 2 to 3 hours to achieve this goal. A shrew will starve if it goes without food for more than a few hours. They do not hibernate in the winter because their bodies are too small to store sufficient fat reserves and as they have a short fasting duration.\n\nCommon shrews have evolved an amazing adaptation to survive through the winter. Their skulls shrink by nearly 20% and their brains get smaller by as much as 30%. Their other organs also lose mass and their spines get shorter. Their total body mass drops by about 18% as a result. When spring arrives, they grow until they reach roughly their original size. Scientists believe that dropping temperatures trigger their bodies to breakdown bones and tissues and absorb them. As temperatures start to rise with the onset of spring, their bodies start to rebuild the lost bones and tissues. This significantly reduces their food requirements and increases their chances of survival in the winter. Additonally, Common shrews exhibit three distinct seasonal phenotypes, however these phenotypes have the same relative oxygen consumption despite varying temperatures.\n\nShrews have poor eyesight and instead use their excellent senses of smell and hearing to find food.\n\nThe common shrew breeding season lasts from April to September, but peaks during the summer months. After a gestation period of 24 to 25 days, a female gives birth to a litter of five to seven babies. A female rears two to four litters each year. The young are weaned and independent within 22 to 25 days.\n\nYoung shrews often form a caravan behind their mother, each carrying the tail of its sibling in front with its mouth.\n\nThe chromosome number (karyotype) of \"Sorex araneus\" varies widely, with a number of distinct \"chromosomal races\" being present over the species' range. One such race was described in 2002 as a new species, \"S. antinorii\". This an example of chromosomal polymorphism (chromosomal variability as a result of chromosome fusions or disassociations).\n\nThese karotypes have been known to naturally hybridize, such as in the Petchora race and the Naryan-Mar variant in Northeastern Russia.\n\nA study by Nanjing Normal University in 2019 found that \"Sorex araneus\" is capable of echolocation via high-frequence tittering and close-range spatial oreination. Comparison of genes involved in hearing between cats, bottlenose dolphins and \"Sorex araneus\" suggests that this is a result of convergent evolution.\n\nThe common shrew is not an endangered species, but in Great Britain it, like other shrews, is protected from certain methods of killing by the Wildlife and Countryside Act of 1981.\n\nIn Britain, shrews can be found at densities of up to one per 200 m² (240 yd²) in woodlands. The main predators of shrews are owls, cats, weasels,snakes stoats, and red foxes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082371", "title": "The Decline of Eastern Christianity", "text": "The Decline of Eastern Christianity\n\nThe Decline of Eastern Christianity under Islam: From Jihad to Dhimmitude is a book by author Bat Ye'or. In the book the author describes her interpretation of the waning of the Eastern Christendom under the Islamic empire's conquests.\n\nBat Yeor described her book as \"\"In this study, I tried to analyze the numerous processes that had transformed rich, powerful Christian civilizations into Islamic lands and their long-term effects, which had reduced native Christian majorities into scattered small religious minorities, now slowly disappearing. This complex Islamization process of Christian lands and civilizations on both shores of the Mediterranean—and in Iraq and Armenia—I have called: the process of \"dhimmitude\" and the civilization of those peoples who underwent such transformation, I have named the civilization of \"dhimmitude\"\".\n\nThe book consists of two parts, an analysis, which aims to paint a broad picture of the conversion of the Near East to Islam, and an appendix containing selected primary sources. The emphasis of the analysis lies on the near past, especially the 19th century. The appendix contains translations of Islamic and non-Islamic sources from the Middle Ages and Western sources of newer date.\n\nProfessor of Middle East studies at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Mordechai Nisan writes that Bat Ye'or's \"exceptionally relevant scholarly study ... amasses compelling evidence and employs powerful argumentation to expose and explain dhimmitude—the author's neologism.\" She challenges traditional notions of Islamic tolerance and the future of minorities within Islamic lands.\n\nGerman orientalist Holger Preissler, in a review positive to the ambition and subject of the book, writes that the book curiously does not cite readily available high quality sources, and that Ye'Or overplays the role of jihad in modern times. He also points out that in criticising frequent one-sided and apologetic uses of Islamic sources, Ye'Or fails to avoid going to the opposite extreme, particularly in the documentation part of the book.\n\nSidney H. Griffith writes that Bat Yeor raised important inter-religious problem but the book itself is problematic as Griffith points out : \"They [the documents used as sources] are presented out of context with no analysis or explanation... The trouble with \"The Decline of Eastern Christianity\" is that in spite of the gathering of an enormous amount of historical material, and although she has raised an issue that well deserves study, Bat Ye'or has written a polemical tract, not responsible historical analysis.Meanwhile, the historical question remains to be answered: why is it that from the mid-7th century to the 20th century the number of Christians in the Islamic world has dwindled from a majority in many areas of the Middle East to virtual insignificance in terms of demography? Is it really due to the net effects of the disabilities prescribed by Islamic law for the dhimmil Or are there other factors?\"\n\nIn a review of \"The Decline of Eastern Christianity Under Islam: From Jihad to Dhimmitude\" the American historian Robert Brenton Betts commented that the book dealt with Judaism at least as much as with Christianity, that the title was misleading and the central premise flawed. He said: \"The general tone of the book is strident and anti-Muslim. This is coupled with selective scholarship designed to pick out the worst examples of anti-Christian behavior by Muslim governments, usually in time of war and threats to their own destruction (as in the case of the Turk-perpetrated Armenian genocide of 1915). Add to this the attempt to demonize the so-called Islamic threat to Western civilization and the end-product is generally unedifying and frequently irritating.\"\n\nThe Catholic convert and minister Richard John Neuhaus wrote that the book \"tells the story straight, thus countering the Islamophile histories that have dominated Western thought for so long\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082378", "title": "WESH", "text": "WESH\n\nWESH, virtual channel 2 (VHF digital channel 11), is an NBC-affiliated television station serving Orlando, Florida, United States that is licensed to Daytona Beach. The station is owned by the Hearst Television subsidiary of Hearst Communications, as part of a duopoly with Clermont-licensed CW affiliate WKCF (channel 18). The two stations share studios on North Wymore Road (near I-4) in Eatonville (using a Winter Park address); WESH's transmitter is located in eastern Orange County near Christmas.\n\nThe station's signal is relayed through two UHF digital translators, broadcasting on channel 18 in Orange City (transmitting from WESH's former analog tower), and channel 24 in Ocala. On cable, the station is available in standard definition on channel 4 on Charter Spectrum, channel 3 on Comcast Xfinity, and channel 2 on CenturyLink Prism and in outlying areas, and in high definition on Spectrum channel 1020, Xfinity channel 432, and Prism channel 1002.\n\nWESH formerly served as a default NBC affiliate for the Gainesville market as the station's analog transmitter provided a city-grade off-air signal in Gainesville proper (and also provided Grade B signal coverage in the fringes of the Tampa Bay and Jacksonville markets). However, since January 1, 2009, Gainesville has been served by an in-market affiliate, WNBW (channel 9); although Cox Communications continues to carry WESH on its Gainesville area system.\n\nWESH-TV first signed on the air on June 11, 1956. At first, it ran as an independent, but on October 27, 1957, it became an NBC affiliate, and has been with NBC ever since. Businessman W. Wright Esch (for whom the station is named) won the license, but sold it to Perry Publications of Palm Beach just before the station made its debut. The station's original studios were located on Corporation Street in Holly Hill, near Daytona Beach.\n\nThe station's original transmitter tower was only high, which was tiny even by 1950s' standards, and limited channel 2's signal coverage to Volusia County. As such, it shared the NBC affiliation in Central Florida with primary CBS affiliate WDBO-TV (channel 6, now WKMG-TV). It finally became the market's exclusive NBC affiliate on November 5, 1957, when WDBO-TV relinquished its secondary affiliation with the network. On that day, the station activated a new transmitter tower in Orange City. The tower was located farther north than the other major Orlando stations' transmitters because of Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules at the time that required a station's transmitter to be located within of its city of license. The station's signal was short-spaced to prevent interference with non-commercial educational station WTHS-TV (channel 2, now PBS member station WPBT) in Miami.\n\nPerry sold WESH-TV to Cowles Communications of Des Moines, Iowa in 1965. Cowles later moved its headquarters to Daytona Beach, and built a satellite studio on Minnesota Avenue in Winter Park. WESH was one of two NBC affiliates that were owned by Cowles Communications; during various points in the company's history, Cowles also owned at least three CBS-affiliated stations and two ABC affiliates (one of the two ABC affiliates, WHTN-TV (now WOWK-TV) in Huntington, West Virginia, was affiliated with CBS and ABC on separate occasions during Cowles ownership; that station has since switched back to CBS). In 1980, the station built a new transmitter facility, measuring at , located on the same site as the 1,000-foot tower; at the time that tower was built, it was the tallest man-made structure in Florida. The new tower allowed for WESH to expand its signal coverage into areas such as Lakeland, Gainesville and St. Augustine; the channel 2 signal traveled a very long distance under normal conditions. The 1,000-foot tower was dismantled in the late 1980s.\n\nCowles exited broadcasting in 1984 and sold two of its stations, WESH and Des Moines' KCCI, to Houston-based H&C Communications. Under H&C ownership, WESH closed its original Holly Hill studio in 1989, and relocated its operations to a temporary studio facility on Ridgewood Avenue (US 1), near International Speedway Boulevard (US 92) in Daytona Beach, which was eventually sold later, but the station maintains its Volusia County news bureau and a microwave tower at that facility. The station's primary operations then moved to a brand new studio in Winter Park in 1991, located on Wymore Road, alongside Interstate 4, equipped with \"Super Doppler 2\" atop the STL tower and a helipad. (The studios also currently serve as the graphics hub for all Hearst-owned TV stations; the Fox and Scripps-owned stations in Tampa Bay, WTVT and WFTS also serve the same role for their respective station groups.) H&C's owners, the Hobby family decided to exit broadcasting in 1995; the company's stations were sold off to different owners, with WESH and KCCI being sold to Pulitzer in 1993. Pulitzer sold its entire broadcasting division, including WESH and KCCI, to Hearst-Argyle Television in 1998.\n\nOn May 8, 2006, Hearst-Argyle announced its purchase of then-WB affiliate WKCF (channel 18, now a CW affiliate) from Emmis Communications, as part of Emmis' sale of its television station assets to concentrate on its radio properties. This acquisition was completed on August 31, 2006; resulting in Orlando's third commercial television station duopoly (alongside Cox-owned WFTV and WRDQ, and Fox-owned WOFL and WRBW). \n\nOn July 9, 2012, due to a dispute between Hearst Television and Central Florida's largest cable provider, Bright House Networks, WESH was removed from Bright House's Central Florida systems. This was part of a larger dispute between Time Warner Cable and Hearst; Bright House was always affected by carriage disputes involving Time Warner Cable. The station was temporarily replaced with Nexstar Broadcasting Group-owned Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania NBC affiliate WBRE-TV (TWC/Bright House opted to replace the Hearst stations with out-of-market signals such as WBRE, as the companies do not have the rights to carry any nearby affiliates of networks whose Hearst-owned affiliates were pulled due to the dispute. The substitution of WBRE in place of WESH lasted until July 19, 2012, when a new carriage deal was reached between Hearst and Time Warner.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nIn 2005, WESH launched a second digital subchannel affiliated with NBC Weather Plus; Weather Plus later shut down on December 1, 2008, with the subchannel's programming switched to the Local AccuWeather Channel. WESH's 2.2 subchannel was later used to carry NBC Daytime and syndicated programming from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the late spring and early summer of 2011, in order to accommodate Casey Anthony trial coverage on WESH's primary channel. The arrangement did not include NBC Sports' weekday coverage of the U.S. Open and Wimbledon, which were instead seen on WKCF. (For WESH's coverage of the George Zimmerman trial two years later, WESH's regular daytime programming was moved to WKCF's second digital subchannel.) On July 11, 2011, WESH replaced the weather programming on subchannel 2.2 with MeTV.\n\nWESH ended programming on its analog signal, on VHF channel 2, at 9 a.m. on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal continued to broadcast on its pre-transition VHF channel 11. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 2. WESH is the only television station in the Orlando market broadcasting on the VHF band post-transition, as WFTV and WKMG-TV opted to broadcast their digital signals on the UHF dial instead.\n\nWESH presently broadcasts 41 hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 6½ hours each weekday, four hours on Saturdays and 4½ hours on Sundays). \n\nWESH was the first station in Orlando to carry an on-site Doppler weather radar system, \"SuperDoppler 2\", as opposed to relying on data from regional radar sites operated by the National Weather Service; the radar is located atop the tower at the station's Winter Park studio facility. The station also operates a VIPIR 3D radar system, taking advantage of the fact that the radars at Melbourne, Tampa, Jacksonville and Miami can all reach Orlando, in addition to \"SuperDoppler 2.\" WESH also produces a nightly weather forecast segment for its Tampa sister independent station WMOR-TV titled the \"Bikini Cast\".\n\nFor over two decades, WESH's newscasts have usually placed second in the market, behind WFTV. However, for most of the time since 2004, WESH's newscasts have traded second and third place with WKMG, while its 4 p.m. newscast continued to trail \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" (which concluded its syndication run in May 2011) on WFTV by a wide margin; this coincided with NBC's ratings struggles that have occurred since 2005. Throughout much of the first half of 2009, WESH's ratings became much more competitive with once-dominant WFTV, especially in the key Adults 25-54 demographic. This was attributed to decreases in viewership on its major station rivals, while ratings for WESH's newscasts remained flat. That mini-resurgence was short-lived, however, as WFTV regained its dominance during the November 2009 sweeps period, while WESH retreated back to third (behind WKMG), except on weeknights. WESH was one of many NBC affiliates across the country that benefitted from the network coverage of the 2010 Winter Olympics during the February sweeps ratings period: Its late-night newscast beat WFTV's by a small margin. Since then WESH has maintained a solid #2 ranking in most of its newscasts.\n\nWESH branded its newscasts under the \"NewsCenter 2\" title for most of the 1980s; the station eventually changed its news branding to \"2 News\" in 1992, then switched to the \"NewsChannel 2\" brand in 1996, before adopting the current \"WESH 2 News\" in 2005; that year, it began pronouncing the station's call letters as a word for the first time since the early 1990s (grammatically though, the station's callsign does not spell an actual word). In August 2006, WESH debuted an hour-long 4 p.m. newscast. Shortly after Hearst acquired WKCF, WESH began producing a weekday morning newscast for that station in January 2007; this was eventually followed by the launch of a WESH-produced nightly 10 p.m. newscast on WKCF on August 31, 2009.\n\nOn November 1, 2007, WESH became the second television station in Orlando (behind WFTV) and the fourth Hearst-owned station to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition. Along with the switch, the station replaced the mandated \"Hearst TV News Music Package\" theme by Newsmusic Central (although the chimes of \"Where the News Comes First\" version of the theme were retained during weather forecasts) with Gari Media Group's \"The NBC Collection\" (which was used for openings, teases and bumpers beginning in 2005). However, in November 2008, the \"Hearst TV News Music Package\" (with the \"de facto\" \"Where the News Comes First\" signature) was fully reinstated.\n\nIn April 2010, video footage from the station's news helicopter \"Chopper 2\" began to be broadcast in high-definition (WFTV upgraded video footage from its helicopter \"Skywitness 9\" to HD two months later). Dave Marsh served as WESH's chief meteorologist for 37 years, until his retirement on July 31, 2006; Marsh was later replaced by Tony Mainolfi on May 3, 2007. On July 18, 2012, WESH became the first Hearst-owned station to unveil a new standardized graphics and music package (\"Strive\" by inthegroovemusic).\n\nIn mid-January 2018, WESH became the first Hearst-owned station to unveil an updated version of its standardized graphics package that is optimized for the full letterbox format. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082379", "title": "Tao Yang", "text": "Tao Yang\n\nTao Yang is a Chinese-American computer scientist. Yang is the Chief Scientist and Senior Vice President of Ask.com for web search. He is also a tenured professor in Computer Science at the University of California, Santa Barbara.\n\nYang received his B.S. degree in Computer Science from Zhejiang University in 1984. In 1987, Yang received his M.E. degree in Artificial Intelligence from Zhejiang University. Yang obtained his M.Sc in 1990 and Ph.D. in 1993 both in Computer Science from Rutgers University.\n\nYang joined the Department of Computer Science at University of California, Santa Barbara in 1993.\n\nYang specializes in parallel and distributed systems, Internet search, and parallel scientific computing. He has co-authored over eighty journal and conference papers.\n\nTogether with Apostolos Gerasoulis, Yang ran research and development of the Teoma search engine from its startup stage in 2000 and after it was acquired by Ask Jeeves (now Ask.com) in 2001.\n\nTeoma has been the backend search engine for Ask.com since December 2001, competing with other search engines such as Google and Yahoo!.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082384", "title": "Ocean State Job Lot", "text": "Ocean State Job Lot\n\nOcean State Job Lot (abbreviation: OSJL) is an American discount retailer operating throughout Rhode Island, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, New Hampshire, Vermont, Maine, New York, and New Jersey. The company is headquartered in North Kingstown, Rhode Island. Founded by Marc Perlman, Alan Perlman and Roy Dubs in 1977 as a single store, it currently operates 139 stores in the US and has more than 5,600 associates. Its selection of merchandise comprises a variety of discounted household goods, apparel, pet supplies, kitchen pantry staples and seasonal products (holiday, gardening, patio, pool and beach supplies).\n\nThe name of the company derives from Rhode Island's nickname, \"The Ocean State\", and from \"Job Lot\", which means \"a miscellaneous group of articles.\"\n\nOcean State Job Lot was founded in 1977 in North Kingstown, RI by Marc Perlman, Alan Perlman and Roy Dubs.\nAfter Ames went bankrupt in 2002, Ocean State Job Lot expanded by buying many of its former locations in New England. In 2017 and 2018, the company was on the Forbes's list of “America Best Midsize Employers.” In 2017, the company completed a 500,000 square foot expansion of its warehouse in North Kingstown, making it the building with the largest footprint in Rhode Island with 1.25 million square feet.As of 2018, the company generated nearly $700 million in annual sales. Most recently in 2019, the company expanded into Pennsylvania by acquiring former Toys \"R\" Us locations. \n\nOcean State Job Lot is a family-run privately-held business with the corporate headquarters and distribution center in North Kingstown, RI at Quonset Point.During its expansion, the company has revitalized numerous commercial spaces and shopping plazas throughout the Northeast by acquiring vacant properties once occupied by other retailers. OSJL's business model involves purchasing merchandise from manufacturers and other retailers in bulk and selling in smaller quantities to customers with the minimum operational and distribution costs. The merchandise selection consists of a variety of manufacturer's overruns, overstocks and packaging changes, as well as selected other products. The company is especially focused on buying and selling closeouts.\nThe Ocean State Job Lot Charitable Foundation was founded in 2004. Through the charity, the company has been supporting a number of philanthropic causes including feeding the hungry, helping the homeless, assisting veterans and military families , aiding animal rescue, caring for children, advancing healthcare, supporting the arts and promoting learning and sport activity in the local communities.\n"}
{"id": "2082385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082385", "title": "Athletics at the 1908 Summer Olympics – Men's 3200 metres steeplechase", "text": "Athletics at the 1908 Summer Olympics – Men's 3200 metres steeplechase\n\nThe men's 3,200 metres steeplechase was held for the only time at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London. The competition was held on July 17, 1908 and July 18, 1908. The races were held on a track of 536.45 metres= mile in circumference. There were six heats of the first round, with the winners of those heats competing in the final.\n\n24 runners from 6 nations competed; eleven from Great Britain, eight from the United States, two from Canada, two from France, one from Hungary, and one from Italy. NOCs could enter up to 12 athletes.\n\nThese were the standing world and Olympic records (in minutes) prior to the 1908 Summer Olympics.\n\n\"(*)\" The distance of this race was 2500 metres and the track was 500 metres in circumference.\n\n\"(**)\" The distance of this race was 2590 metres and the track was 536.45 metres= mile in circumference.\n\nAll first round heats were held on Friday, July 17, 1908.\n\nHeat 1\n\nRussell won easily, with Cartasegna being the only other competitor to finish. Downing was disqualified for incorrectly clearing the first water jump, Ragueneau retired on the second lap, and Carr injured his ankle.\n\nHeat 2\n\nEisele was the only one to finish. Fleurac led early, but was caught before the water jump and pulled up lame, while English fell.\n\nHeat 3\n\nBarker pulled up lame, leaving Galbraith with the win.\n\nHeat 4\n\nWith Yorke being disqualified for obstruction and Bonhag injured, the race was between Robertson and Dull. Dull led at first, but Robertson passed him and won by two hundred yards.\n\nHeat 5\n\nThe Americans had little chance of catching up with Holdaway and Kinchin; Holdaway was a hundred yards ahead at the finish.\n\nHeat 6\n\nFitzgerald fell and Grantham pulled up lame. Sewell and Lightbody competed right up to the finish, and Sewell pulled away at the end to win a tight race by less than ten yards.\n\nThe final was held on Saturday, July 18, 1908.\n\nHoldaway was the first to lead, but did not do so for long. Galbraith and Russell were the leaders for most of the first half of the race, until Galbraith fell back and Eisele joined Russell at the front. After the bell, Robertson passed Eisele and nearly caught Russell, trailing by only two yards when the two crossed the finish line.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082397", "title": "Mystic India", "text": "Mystic India\n\nMystic India is a 2004 large format film (commonly known as the IMAX format) about India's culture, people, and traditions. It is told through the 12,000 km barefoot journey throughout 18th century India undertaken by the Hindu adolescent ascetic Nilkanth, later known in life as Swaminarayan by his followers. The film was directed by Keith Melton and financed and produced by BAPS Charities. The film is available in Hindi, English, French and Spanish.\n\n\nNilkanth walked 12,000 kilometers around the Indian subcontinent over a span of 7 years. His journey took him through the \"dense jungles, fertile plains, majestic mountains, mighty rivers, and peaceful coastlines\" of India. This journey included the exploration of “India’s silent spirituality” and its appropriation as a \"mystic land of meditation, contemplation and enlightenment.\"\n\nOn June 29, 1792 at the age of 11, Nilkanth left home \"to begin his life work of establishing ekantik dharma.\" Nilkanth took very few possessions with him on his journey. Known articles include a loin cloth, \"a rosary, a kerchief, a piece of cloth for filtering water and a small manuscript.\"\n\nNilkanth first travelled to the Himalayan Mountains and reached Badrinath during October 1792. Soon thereafter, he reached Nepal and performed austerities by standing on one leg in meditation for four months.\n\n\"Leaving the Himalayas, Nilkanth went through Bengal to Jagannathpuri in the east.\" It is here that Nilkanth took part in the Rath Yatra, a festival dedicated to the pulling of Lord Jagannath’s murti on a royal chariot.\n\nFrom Jagannath Puri, Nilkanth traveled to South India. \"He visited the sacred places associated with the life of Ramanuja, including his birthplace at Sriperumbudur and the famous pilgrimage temple at Srirangam. Nilkanth’s journey through Kanchipuram, Kumbakonam, Madurai, and Rameshwaram took him to the southern tip of India.\"\n\nOn August 21, 1799, Nilkanth’s journey finally ended in the town of Loj, Gujarat. In Loj at the age of 19, Nilkanth met Muktanand Swami, a senior leader of a group of ascetics who followed the Vaishnava teachings of their guru Ramanand Swami.\n\nThe music for the film was a joint effort between Sam Cardon, Ronu Majumdar, and BAPS musicians. Due to this diverse talent pool, the music for Mystic India covers a wide spectrum, ranging from western symphony to Indian traditional music.\n\nThe film was shot during two different time periods, March to May 2003 and January to February 2004. The shooting was done at over 100 different locations, some as high as 13,000 feet. The most cinematically appealing scene is during the Rath Yatra festival in Jagannathpuri. The shot included chariots over five stories tall and over 8,000 participants.\n\nAccording to movie review website Rotten Tomatoes, Mystic India received an overall critic approval rating of 86%. Top critic Roger Moore of the Orlando Sentinel said that the film \"utterly fills the screen with wondrous images of a place that few will ever have the chance to explore\". Top critic Philip Wuntch of the Dallas Morning News said \"the film celebrates India’s diversity and makes a strong and moving plea for unity among the peoples of the world\".\n\nMystic India received the Audience’s Choice Award at the 10th International Large Format Film Festival at La Geode in Paris, France. The festival lasted from January 12 to the 31st in 2005. Mystic India was one of nine large format films selected to be screened at the festival. Mystic India was also accredited with the honor of “Most Popular Film” at the San Jose IMAX Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082407", "title": "Revenue bond", "text": "Revenue bond\n\nA revenue bond is a special type of municipal bond distinguished by its guarantee of repayment solely from revenues generated by a specified revenue-generating entity associated with the purpose of the bonds, rather than from a tax. Unlike general obligation bonds, only the revenues specified in the legal contract between the bond holder and bond issuer are required to be used for repayment of the principal and interest of the bonds; other revenues (notably tax revenues) and the general credit of the issuing agency are not so encumbered. Because the pledge of security is not as great as that of general obligation bonds, revenue bonds may carry a slightly higher interest rate than G.O. bonds; however, they are usually considered the second-most secure type of municipal bonds.\n\nRevenue bonds may be issued to construct or expand upon various revenue-generating entities, including:\n\nGenerally, any government agency or fund that is run like a business, generating operating revenues and expenses (sometimes known as an \"enterprise fund\"), can issue revenue bonds. An agency that provides a free service, such as a school, can not do so, as their only revenue is tax dollars.\n\nThe Supreme Court decision of \"Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.\" of 1895 initiated a wave or series of innovations for the financial services community in both tax-treatment and regulation from government. This specific case, according to a leading investment bank's research, resulted in the \"intergovernmental tax immunity doctrine,\" ultimately leading to \"tax-free status.\" The interest on municipal bonds is generally excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes (however, capital gains or accruing market discount are not tax exempt); for these purposes, accruing original issue discount is also treated as \"interest\" which is excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes. Some municipal bonds are called \"specified private activity bonds\" and are preference items under the alternative minimum tax. Additionally, corporate taxpayers may need to include interest on otherwise tax exempt municipal bonds in a calculation base for purposes of the alternative minimum tax and other special taxes. \n\nFor taxpayers who purchase municipal bonds issued in the same state in which they reside, interest payments are generally exempt from state and local tax also. States generally tax interest on municipal bonds issued in other states. There is considerable variability by state, however. For example, in Maryland there is also a specific exemption of capital gain on Maryland-issued municipal bonds. In contrast, Minnesota does not provide for an exemption. The differential treatment of different state's interest was considered in the case Kentucky v. Davis, 553 U.S. 328 (2008). \n\nMunicipal Bonds may be issued in one of two forms: (a) revenue bond, or (b) general obligation (GO) bond. Revenue bonds may be issued by an agency, commission, or authority created by legislation in order to construct a \"facility,\" such as a toll bridge; turnpike; hospital; university dormitory; water; sewer, utilities and electric districts; or ports. The fees, taxes, or tolls charged for use of the facility ultimately pay off the debt.\n\nMany governments with the power to tax also issue revenue bonds, but restrict the debt service funds to only those funds from the governmental enterprise that generates these revenues. The issuing government does not pledge its own credit to pay the bonds. When a municipality assumes liability for the debt service, if the income from the project is insufficient, it is considered to be double-barreled. In this case however, they are more like GO bonds, except that, for bankruptcy and security purposes, they have the benefit of the additional security provided by the pledged revenues. An example of double-barreled bonds is water and sewer revenue bonds issued on behalf of a water and sewer enterprise system.\n\nRevenue bonds are most often issued to finance a revenue-generating public works project such as, bridges, tunnels, sewer systems, education (e.g. college dorms and/or student loans). In the case of education or school systems, bonds issued for colleges and universities are generally backed by income or other progressive taxes. General obligation bonds may be backed by a variety of credits depending on the state and local law; those credits include taxes on local property (ad valorem), regressive taxes and/or all other sources of revenue to the municipality. As a general rule, revenue bonds are backed by the revenue generated by the municipal facility funded by the bond issue. A feasibility study should be conducted to compare one project's IRR (internal rate of return, or hurdle rate) to another proposed project, as it is most important to ensure the success of the municipality. For instance, local government and port authorities can propose construction for a given neighborhood, based on projects that have been successful previously, or it can create a nonprofit authority to issue revenue bonds to build a school district, for example.\n\nIn recent legislation, the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (Securities Act Amendments of 1975), and now FINRA (the Financial Industry Regulation Authority) as of July 30, 2007, the industry overall has consolidated not only in sheer number but by undoing previous legislation such as the Securities Act of 1933. Municipal bonds traditionally were exempt from the filing requirements of the Glass–Steagall Act of 1933, however, like all other securities they are subject to the anti-fraud provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and once again the newly formed FINRA.\n\nSome examples of Revenue Bonds include:\n§ IDRs and IDBs (Industrial Development Revenue Bonds) or, after the passage of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, PABs (Private Activity Bonds)\n§ Lease rental bonds\n§ Special Assessment Bonds (or Special District Bonds or, in California, Mello-Roos Bonds)\n§ Housing Authority Bonds\n\nAs a revenue bond is not backed by the full faith and credit of the issuing government, it does not require voter approval. As of July 1, 1983, all municipal bonds must be registered. Two other important pieces of legislation are the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and the 39 General Regulations that govern the SRO (self-regulatory organization) of the MSRB. The MSRB, as mentioned above, governs the issuance and trade of municipal securities both general obligation and revenue bonds.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082410", "title": "A1 Team Portugal", "text": "A1 Team Portugal\n\nA1 Team Portugal was the Portuguese team for A1 Grand Prix, an international racing series.\n\nThe \"A1 Team Portugal\" team owners were Luís Figo Carlos Queiroz. The team's operations were run by CEO Luís Vicente, manager of the Fundação Luís Figo.\n\n\"Driver: Filipe Albuquerque\"\n\nFilipe Albuquerque will be the primary driver for A1 Team Portugal through to the end of the 2009–10 season. He scored his first A1GP victory in the feature race in China. With four additional podium finishes and only two races without points (both during the same event), Albuquerque went on to finish as 3rd in the 2008–09 championship, with 92 points.\n\n\"Drivers: Filipe Albuquerque, João Urbano\"\n\nAfter a dismal start to the season, scoring only five points in the first six races, Team Portugal came alive after Filipe Albuquerque became lead driver. The team scored three podiums, and finished 11th in the championship.\n\n\"Drivers: Álvaro Parente, João Urbano\"\n\nTeam Portugal only competed in four rounds of the 2006-07 season, starting with the Durban race. They scored twice, and finished in 17th place in the championship.\n\n\"Drivers: César Campaniço, Álvaro Parente\"\n\nIn the inaugural season, Team Portugal took 3 podiums en route to 9th in the championship.\n\nThe Federação Portuguesa de Automobilismo e Karting (FPKA) and the A1 Team Portugal create in November 2007 the FPAK A1GP Portugal Junior Team to encourage Portuguese drivers into A1GP. This project, give to Portuguese Cup and Open Racing Series in Portugal drivers, the opportunities to take part in the rookie sessions or practice events. The first driver to benefit from this Junior Team is Gonçalo Araújo will take part in the rookie session at Zuhai during the fourth round of the 2007–08 season.<br>\nExcept Gonçalo Araújo, Bruno Serra and Frederico Duarte will take part of Junior Team in 2007-08. This season, its Armando Parente, António Félix da Costa, Gonçalo Araújo and Bruno Serra.\n\n(), \"spr\" indicates the Sprint Race, \"fea\" indicates the Feature Race.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082411", "title": "All the Joy in the World", "text": "All the Joy in the World\n\nAll the Joy in the World is Jump5's first Christmas album, released on October 22, 2002. Their covers of \"Joy to the World\" and \"Strange Way To Save The World\" was released to Christian contemporary hit radio (CHR) and adult contemporary radio on the week of October 31, 2002, just in time for the Christmas and holiday season of that year. The album is a mix of both traditional and modern Christmas covers.\n\nIt charted at #16 on the Billboard Top Christian Albums charts\n\nJump5's version of \"Joy to the World\" was appeared to performed with Raven-Symoné in 2003 during \"Nick at Nite\".\n\nThe classic Christmas song \"Santa Claus Is Coming To Town\" performed by Jump5 was playing on live stage in Lowe's.\n"}
{"id": "2082418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082418", "title": "All the Time in the World (Jump5 album)", "text": "All the Time in the World (Jump5 album)\n\nAll the Time in the World is the second album from Christian pop group Jump5. \"All I Can Do\" was released as a Radio Disney single, while the \"Joyride\" and \"Forever in My Heart\" singles were later released for both Christian contemporary hit radio (CHR) and adult contemporary radio.\n\nThe album peaked at #3 on the \"Billboard\" Contemporary Christian Album Charts, and #83 on the Billboard 200.\n\nA DVD acting as a companion for the album was released on August 13, 2002, the same date as the album. It included the music video for \"All I Can Do,\" a live performance of \"Start Jumpin'\" on Go for It! TV, and a behind the scenes featurette about the making of the \"Beauty and the Beast\" music video, as well the Disney song appeared in Disneymania as exclusive interviews.\n\nJump5's \"All I Can Do\" was re-record to promote a hidden commercial with JCPenney \"It's All Inside\". And the hits of their own song was to appeared in Radio Disney's promotion with McDonald's Mighty Music CD & Radio Disney Jams vol.6 and Lizzie McGuire soundtrack.\n\nJump5 takes a long trip with Aaron Carter Summer Tour.\n"}
{"id": "2082423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082423", "title": "Unorganized North Nipissing District", "text": "Unorganized North Nipissing District\n\nUnorganized North Nipissing District is an unorganized area in northeastern Ontario, Canada. It includes the unincorporated areas in northern Nipissing District north of the Mattawa River.\n\n\n\nMother tongue (according to the Canada 2016 Census):\n\nPopulation trend:\n\n"}
{"id": "2082424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082424", "title": "Jump5 (album)", "text": "Jump5 (album)\n\nJump5 is the self-titled debut album from Christian pop group Jump5. It was released on August 14, 2001 through Sparrow Records. Two re-releases followed: the first featured the \"Start Jumpin'\" bonus track targeted towards Christian audiences, while the second featured a Radio Disney-targeted version of \"Start Jumpin'\" with different lyrics plus a cover of Lee Greenwood's God Bless the USA to remember the lives lost after the September 11th attacks. A portion of sales from the second re-release was donated to families who lost a loved one during the attacks on September 11, 2001.\n\n\"Spinnin' Around\" was released as the album's lead Radio Disney single. A music video for this song was also filmed for release on VHS and DVD. The Radio Disney versions of \"Start Jumpin'\" and \"God Bless the USA\" were both released for airplay on Radio Disney. \n\nA VHS and DVD home video release acting as a companion to the album was released on March 26, 2002. It includes the music videos for \"Spinnin' Around\" and \"God Bless the USA,\" as well as interviews with the group.\nThis song \"Spinnin Around\" appeared in the Video Game Disney's Extreme Skate Adventure.\n"}
{"id": "2082425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082425", "title": "Robert Aitken (publisher)", "text": "Robert Aitken (publisher)\n\nRobert Aitken (1734–1802) was a Philadelphia printer and the first to publish an English language Bible in the newly formed United States. He was born in Dalkeith, Scotland.\n\nHe emigrated to Philadelphia in 1769, where he published the \"Pennsylvania Magazine, or American Monthly Museum\" in 1775–76.\n\nStarting in Philadelphia as a bookseller in 1769 and 1771, Aitken started publication of \"The Pennsylvania Magazine\" in 1775, continuing through 1776. He also printed copies of the New Testament in 1777, 1778, 1779, and 1781. He died in Philadelphia in 1802.\n\nThe Aitken Bible of 1782 was reviewed, approved and authorized by the Congress of the Confederation. The Bible was reviewed first for accuracy by the Congressional Chaplains White and Duffield and they reported on its accuracy. Then the Journals of Congress for September 1782 records on page 469, \"Resolved. That the United States in Congress assembled highly approve the pious and laudable undertaking of Mr. Aitkin, as subservient to the interest of religion as well as an influence of the progress of arts in this country and being satisfied from the above report (by the congressional chaplains), they recommend this edition of the bible to the inhabitants of the United States and hereby authorize him to publish this recommendation.\" (Spelling has been modernized).\n\nIn 1781 Aitken undertook to print the first complete English Bible produced in America and sought the official sanction of Congress for his edition. Congress passed a resolution officially authorizing the edition in September 1782. Known as the “Aitken Bible,” this was the first and only edition of the Bible ever authorized by Congress. As Aitken reported to George Washington, the venture was a financial failure.\n\nThe war with Britain had cut off the supply of Bibles, and, on September 11, 1777, the Continental Congress reviewed a committee report, informing them that a locally produced bible may not be a viable option, due to the risk and cost of procuring the materials necessary. The committee noted, \"...the use of the Bible is so universal, and its importance so great, that the committee refer the above to the consideration of Congress, and if Congress shall not think it expedient to order the importation of types and paper, your committee recommend that Congress will order the Committee of Commerce to import 20,000 Bibles from Holland, Scotland, or elsewhere, into the different ports of the states in the Union.\" Congress favored the idea of importing 20,000 Bibles, in order to address the short supply. Library of Congress \n\nOn Thursday, September 12, 1782, Congress reviewed a report dated September 1, 1782, from their Congressional committee, and signed by the committee Chairman, James Duane. The committee had been, \"…referred a memorial of Robert Aitkin, dated January 21st, 1781, respecting an edition of the holy scriptures.\" This committee had, from time to time, checked on the progress of Aitken's work, and their report stated, \"Our knowledge of your piety and public spirit leads us without apology to recommend to your particular attention the edition of the holy scriptures publishing by Mr. Aitkin.\" Library of Congress Next Congress reviewed a report dated September 10, 1782, from the committee, and signed by the Chaplains of the United States in Congress assembled, William White and George Duffield. This report stated they had reviewed the printing and it was found to be, \"…with as few grammatical and typographical errors as could be expected in an undertaking of such magnitude.\" Library of Congress The outcome is listed as, \"Resolved. That the United States in Congress assembled highly approve the pious and laudable undertaking of Mr. Aitkin, as subservient to the interest of religion as well as an influence of the progress of arts in this country and being satisfied from the above report (by the congressional chaplains), they recommend this edition of the bible to the inhabitants of the United States and hereby authorize him to publish this recommendation.\"\n\nIn 1783, after Aitken's Bible had begun to be distributed, Dr. John Rodgers of the First Presbyterian Church of New York suggested to General George Washington that every discharged soldier be given a copy of Aitken's Bible. Since the war was coming to a close and Congress had already ordered the discharge of two-thirds of the army, the suggestion came too late. However, Washington said, \"It would have pleased me well, if Congress had been pleased to make such an important present to the brave fellows who have done so much for the security of their country's rights and establishment.\" \n\n\n Unknown, . United States. National Archives. From George Washington to John Rodgers, 11 June 1783. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, Web. <https://founders.archives.gov/documents/Washington/99-01-02-11434>.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082426", "title": "Bobino (TV series)", "text": "Bobino (TV series)\n\nBobino is a Quebec French language children's television show made in Quebec and broadcast on Radio Canada, the French language television service of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, between 1957 and 1985. Its stories revolved around Bobino (a kind gentleman played by Guy Sanche) and his sister Bobinette (a puppet voiced by Paule Bayard and later by Christine Lamer). The cast is complemented by a number of other characters which never appear on screen but who interact with the cast by visual or audible cues.\n\n\"Bobino\" was created in 1957 as the host and presenter of animated shorts by Guy Sanche, the star of the show. At first, the show was unscripted, and Sanche created a number of imaginary characters to interact with and play against such as Camério, the personification of the camera, who could answer by nodding or shaking its \"head\" or Gustave, the noisy and distracting ghost created by accident when a stage operator dropped a set of keys on the set during the (then) live filming.\n\nIn 1959, Michel Cailloux joined the production team to write new scenarios which had been written entirely by Sanche until that point. Cailloux introduced a number of new characters over the years, including Bobinette the boisterous little sister of Bobino and Giovanni a friend of Bobinette introduced in 1980.\n\nBobinette was originally handled and voiced by Paule Bayard, who became gravely ill in 1973. Christine Lamer took the character over starting at the end of the 1972-1973 season until the show's end.\n\nRadio-Canada ended the show in 1985 causing a flurry of protest and petitions to keep it on the air. However, Sanche's health was deteriorating and was no longer able to continue hosting the show. Sanche died three years later of cancer.\n\nThe show centered on the interaction between Bobino and his sister, who would either come up with elaborate schemes for pranks to play on her brother (who would often get the last laugh by coming up with a prank of his own and turning the tables); or with Bobinette getting into trouble of her own making from which Bobino would rescue her, not without passing the opportunity for a lesson or moral.\n\nThe live action segments were cut in three acts, separated by two animated shorts.\n\nThe music used for the generic of Bobino is named \"Double March\" and is credited to composer \"Dwight Barker\". \"Dwight Barker\" is in fact the penname of the compositor duo formed by Tommy Reilly and James Moody.\n\n\"Bobino et Botinette\" were adapted into a comic strip by Norbert Fersen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082432", "title": "Scott Menville", "text": "Scott Menville\n\nScott David Menville (born February 12, 1971) is an American actor, voice actor and musician. He is best known for his voice work in animated films and television series.\n\nMenville was born in Malibu, California. He is the son of television animator and writer Chuck Menville (1940–1992).\n\nHis first role came in 1979 in an episode of \"Scooby-Doo and Scrappy-Doo\". He is perhaps best known for providing the voice of Robin on the \"Teen Titans\" cartoon series, Lloyd Irving on \"Tales of Symphonia\", taking over the role of Freddy Flintstone from Lennie Weinrib on \"The Flintstone Kids\", and Ma-Ti on \"Captain Planet and the Planeteers\".\n\nHe also voiced Jonny Quest on \"The New Adventures of Jonny Quest\", Quicksilver on \"The Super Hero Squad Show\" and Kevin French on \"Mission Hill\".\n\nMenville is also a musician. He was the bassist for the Southern California rock band Boy Hits Car, which released three albums until he left the band in 2006. He was with the band since their founding. Menville has also participated in non-voice acting roles. He appeared in \"Ernest Goes to Camp\" as Crutchfield, and had recurring roles on \"Full House\" as Kimmy Gibbler's boyfriend Duane, and on \"The Wonder Years\" as Wayne's best friend Wart.\n\nRecently, he did the voices of Metamorpho in \"\", JT and Jimmy Jones on \"Ben 10\", and reprises his role as Robin in \"Teen Titans Go!\".\n\nIn 2016, he played Arthur, the Goodwin twins' computer in the TV series \"Second Chance\" and Sneezy in the Disney animated TV series \"The 7D\". Later that same year, he also reprised his role of Duane on \"Fuller House\".\n"}
{"id": "2082433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082433", "title": "List of castles in Syria", "text": "List of castles in Syria\n\nThis is a list of castles in Syria.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082436", "title": "Opry Mills", "text": "Opry Mills\n\nOpry Mills is a super-regional shopping mall owned by Simon Property Group, formerly by its initial owners Mills Corporation and Gaylord Entertainment. It opened in Nashville, Tennessee, in 2000 on the former site of the Opryland USA theme park. The mall is adjacent to the Grand Ole Opry House and the Gaylord Opryland Resort & Convention Center.\n\nPrior to its temporary 2010–2012 closure, Opry Mills was a single level mall that contained over 200 stores including Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Blacklion (now Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store), Bed Bath & Beyond, Forever 21, Gap Factory Store, Gibson Showcase (now H&M), IMAX, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue, Barnes & Noble Booksellers (now Madame Tussauds), Nike Factory Store, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Old Navy Outlet Store, Regal Cinemas, Sun and Ski Sports and VF Outlet. There is also a large food court that contains Which Wich, Chili's, T.G.I. Friday's, Burger King, and Villa Pizza. Johnny Rockets, Tony Roma's, Rainforest Cafe, Dave & Buster's, Aquarium Restaurant, Claim Jumper, Moe's Southwest Grill and Romano's Macaroni Grill restaurants are located inside and outside the food court. Opry Mills has since reopened on March 29, 2012 after repairs.\n\nThe \"General Jackson\" showboat, which operates on the Cumberland River, is docked just outside Opry Mills.\n\nFlood waters from the 2010 Tennessee floods in early May reportedly reached as high as 10 feet inside the mall, and forced the closure of the facility temporarily. The entire property was remediated. In September 2010, restoration work was halted while litigation over insurance claims played out in court, and many of the mall's retailers sought locations elsewhere in the area, either permanently or until the mall is restored and reopened. The initial reopening date was set for August 2011, but that self-imposed deadline was not met due to the litigation. There was speculation that Simon Malls may not reopen the mall at all, due to Simon Malls' choice to stop renovations to the mall during litigation. Simon Malls denied that it had plans to close the mall permanently.\n\nOn April 12, 2011, mall officials announced that a financing deal had been reached to resume reconstruction of Opry Mills, and the mall reopened on March 29, 2012, after two years of repairs, with some of the anchor retailers opening sooner. The property was given a facelift during the remediation, and featured a new logo upon its reopening.\n\nThe mall owners had been awarded $200 million in insurance coverage from the flood but in 2018 the Tennessee Supreme Court let stand a lower court’s ruling that stripped $150 million of coverage as the mall had been built in a known flood zone.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082444", "title": "John Eisele", "text": "John Eisele\n\nJohn Eisele (\"John Lincoln Eisele;\" January 18, 1884 – March 30, 1933) was an American athlete. He won the silver medal in the 3 mile team race and bronze medal in the 3,200 meters steeplechase at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London.\n\nEisele was the only runner in his first round heat to finish, moving to the final after running the first round in 11:13.6. He kept pace with the leader, Arthur Russell of Great Britain and Ireland, from about the halfway mark to the bell. Archie Robertson, also of Britain, passed him then. Eisele finished third, about twenty-five yards behind the British pair. His time was 11:00.8. He also won a silver medal in the 3 miles team race together with George Bonhag and Herbert Trube.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082449", "title": "Original Gangstas", "text": "Original Gangstas\n\nOriginal Gangstas is a 1996 action-gangster film filmed and set in urban Gary, Indiana starring Blaxploitation film stars such as Fred Williamson, Pam Grier, Jim Brown, and Richard Roundtree. The film is directed by Larry Cohen, his final film before his death in 2019.\n\nThe film details the deteriorating state of an impoverished Gary neighborhood terrorized by a street gang called the Rebels. When the gang murders a local boy, it prompts the emergence of several individuals who grew up in the neighborhood: the original members of the Rebels.\n\nThe movie opens to a narration detailing the poor economic state of a gang-ridden Gary. The narrator explains to the audience of how the city came into such a state. After the opening narrative, the scene switches to the base of operations for the \"Rebels\", a local street gang, and a one-on-one basketball game between a Rebel gang member and a local boy named Kenny Thompson. \n\nKenny humiliates the Rebel by winning and taking the gambled winnings for his own. After he leaves, Spyro, the current co-leader of the Rebels (opposite Damien) is under the impression that Kenny's skills are something more than \"something he picked up.\" He instructs his lieutenant, Kayo, to exact retribution on Kenny for being hustled.\n\nWhile Kenny and his friend Marcus are relaxing at a diner, Kenny decides to call his girlfriend. He enters a phone booth to make the call, but is subsequently shot by Kayo in a drive-by shooting. His mother, Laurie Thompson, alarmed by the gunshots, steps outside her home to discover her son murdered. The owners of the grocery store, Marvin Bookman and Gracie Bookman, two well-respected members of the community by both the Rebels and local citizens, feels that justice should be brought to Kenny's murderer and discloses the license plate number of the shooter's vehicle. \n\nWhen the Rebels discover this, Spyro orders Kayo to dispose of the vehicle. Kayo and the Rebels then proceed to confront Marvin about his assistance to the investigators of Kenny's death. Marvin argues that Kenny was a good person and did not deserve to be shot. The co-leaders of the Rebels describe how they respected the Bookmans' store and, while others around it were robbed and ransacked, their store was left alone. The fact that Marvin would \"sell them out\" expresses a high amount of disrespect to the Rebels, who then immediately seek revenge on Marvin. Eventually, Kayo and Bobby, with a group of fellow Rebels, attacks the grocery store, resulting in the near-fatal shooting of Marvin by Bobby.\n\nThe attack on Marvin's life prompts his son, pro football coach and ex-Rebel John Bookman, to return to the impoverished Gary neighborhood to find Bobby the shooter. After seeing his father, John goes to save his father's shop and kicked all the Rebels fellows out of there. Then he goes to a local barbershop, where Kayo eventually turns up. Trouble immediately brews, and John and the gang members fight. \n\nJohn has the upper hand, but is overpowered. Jake Trevor, another original Rebel, enters the fray and saves John. After the fight, the two converse, and it is revealed that Jake is here to bury his illegitimate son, Kenny Thompson. Jake goes to visit \"Slick\",who reveals to Jake that his son was killed because he hustled the Rebels. Jake is astounded and enraged that his son was killed over money.\n\nThe next day, John and Jake attend Kenny's funeral, where a distraught Laurie Thompson is reunited with her ex-husband. While talking, Laurie implores Jake to reconsider seeking vengeance upon his son's murderers, expressing her disdain by stating that he always wishes to resolve such issues by fighting, which \"only makes things worse\". John tells Jake that he has a meeting with the Rebels at the church that makes Jake and Laurie disappointed at him. Jake confronts Spyro at the basketball court about Kenny Thompson.\n\nAfter failed treaty negotiations at the church and the rising of neighborhood gang violence, the other gangs, The Diablos and The Rangers, have a meeting with Spyro, Damien and The Rebels about Kenny Thompson. At the Rebels party, John and Jake drove Spyro and Damien's car into The Diablo's territory and shoot at them to set The Rebels up to break the truce. The Rebels set the community houses on fire as retaliation with molotov cocktails. \n\nAll of the original Rebels - John Bookman, Laurie, Jake, Slick and Bubba - with the help of Kenny's friend Marcus, decide to take justice into their own hands and attack the Rebels. They devise a plan to \"lose\" a trunk of weapons to the Rebels. When the Rebels tried to use said weapons, the guns malfunctioned and \"exploded\" in their faces, stunning many Rebels. In another area, Rebels are attempting to escape the battle, but are stopped by a group of community members, armed with bats and other improvised weapons. Eventually, Spyro and Damien fear they may lose the fight, and escape to the old steel mill. Jake and John follow.\n\nAfter an intense hand-to-hand fight between Jake and Spyro, Spyro is killed. After Spyro is taken down by Jake, the leader of a rival gang The Diablos, Blood, along with a few cohorts, shoots a battered Damien; the leadership of the Rebels is destroyed.\n\nThe film had mixed reviews. The film holds a 50% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 14 reviews.\n\nThe movie debuted at the US box office at No.9.\n\nA soundtrack containing hip hop and R&B music was released on April 30, 1996 by Noo Trybe Records. It peaked at #41 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and #8 on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082452", "title": "Wood Island Light", "text": "Wood Island Light\n\nWood Island Light is an active lighthouse on the eastern edge of Wood Island in Saco Bay, on the southern coast of Maine. The light is just outside the entrance to Biddeford Pool and the end of the Saco River. The lighthouse is a conical white tower of granite rubble. The light itself sits above mean high water. Its automated beacon alternates between green and white every 10 seconds.\n\nWood Island Light is Maine's second-oldest lighthouse (after Portland Head Light) and the nation's eleventh-oldest. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places as Wood Island Light Station on January 21, 1988, reference number 87002274.\n\nThe United States Coast Guard maintains the active beacon of the lighthouse, while The Friends of Wood Island Light, a non-profit organization, has assisted the Coast Guard by maintaining and restoring parts of the lighthouse and keepers dwellings.\n\nWood Island Light was established in 1808 under the orders of President Thomas Jefferson. The original tower was an octagonal wooden structure. After it rotted, a granite tower was erected to replace it in 1839. In 1858, the new tower was renovated to allow the installation of a 4th-order Fresnel lens. The current keepers dwellings were also built then.\n\nIn the 1960s, the original lantern room was removed and an aerobeacon was installed. This was deemed unsightly by locals and when the lighthouse was automated in 1986, a new lantern room was fabricated and installed on the lighthouse along with a VRB-25 beacon, then the latest technology. In 2013, the VRB-25 was replaced by a VLB-44, an LED beacon with a service life of ten years. \n\nEben Emerson served as Lightkeeper from 1861 to 1865. On March 16, 1865, he saved the crew of the British brig \"Edyth Anne\" from drowning in a heavy storm near the lighthouse; for this action he was commended by the Canadian government and rewarded with a pair of binoculars.\n\nThomas Henry Orcutt, a former sea captain and previous keeper at Saddleback Ledge Light served as keeper of Wood Island Light for 19 years (1886–1905). His dog, Sailor, became famous for ringing the station's fog bell to greet passing ships by taking the bell cord in mouth and pulling it with his teeth.\n\nIn the 1890s Wood Island Light and Wood Island were host to a grisly murder-suicide. A local squatter and part-time lobsterman was living on the west end of the island. The squatter had been involved in an earlier altercation on the mainland and was approached by a sheriff's deputy in his squatter shack on the island. The squatter murdered the sheriff's deputy. Realizing what he had done he attempted to turn himself in to lighthouse keeper Thomas Orcutt who, in fear, turned him away. The squatter returned to his shack and committed suicide. Legend has it that the ghost of the murdered deputy still haunts the lighthouse and island.\n\n\nWood Island Light is viewable from just beyond the southern end of SR-208 off Biddeford Pool, Maine. To reach the best viewing spot proceed beyond SR-208's southern terminus along Lester B Orcutt Bl. There is an entrance to an Audubon trail on the left side of the road. Follow this path to the ocean. Wood Island Light is across the channel.\n\nFriends of Wood Island Lighthouse runs seasonal tours out to the island and lighthouse from Biddeford Pool.\n\nThe island supports a small population of deer who swim the half mile to and from Biddeford Pool. When visiting the island it is a rare treat to spot them. The best viewing can often be in winter from the East Point Sanctuary in Biddeford Pool. In winter it is not uncommon to spot snowy owls on the island. Rafts of eiders, scoters and loons are present in the winter. Brants and cormorants arrive in early spring.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082454", "title": "West San Jose", "text": "West San Jose\n\nWest San Jose is the western San Jose, California in Silicon Valley. The area of West San Jose is bounded on the north by the city of Santa Clara, on the east by San Tomas Expressway, on the south by Prospect Road, and on the west by De Anza Boulevard. The eastern boundary of San Jose City Council District 1 is at State Route 17.\n\nAttractions in West San Jose include the historic Winchester Mystery House, a California historic landmark, as well as over 20 movie theaters, such as AMC Saratoga 14, and Santana Row's Ciné Arts.\n\nMost of the housing was built in the 1950s as moderately priced housing. In the last several decades, the neighborhood became upscale as the median housing value rose to over one million dollars, especially in the western portion of West San Jose bordering Cupertino and Saratoga. Nearby commercial/retail includes Santana Row, the Westgate Mall (San Jose), and El Paseo de Saratoga.\n\nThe major thoroughfare of the area is Stevens Creek Boulevard, one of Silicon Valley's premier shopping streets.\n\nThe eastern portion of West San Jose is served by the Elementary and Middle Public Schools at the Moreland School District, including multiple California Distinguished Schools. The western portion of the neighborhood is served by the Cupertino Union School District and the Fremont Union High School District.\n\nHigh schools include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082466", "title": "Moya, Las Palmas", "text": "Moya, Las Palmas\n\nMoya is a town and a municipality in the northern part of the island of Gran Canaria in the Province of Las Palmas in the Canary Islands. Its population is 7,977 (2013), and the area is 31.87 km².\n\nThe town Moya is situated in the mountains, 4 km from the coast and 15 km west of Las Palmas. The GC-2 motorway passes through the northern part of the municipality.\n\nThe northern part of Gran Canaria was covered in forests during the Spanish conquest of the 15th century. All that's left today are two redoubts, the \"Finca de Osorio\" in Teror and the \"Tilos de Moya\". Here, the native chief, Doramas, took refuge after attacking the Castilian conquerors, giving the name \"Selva de Doramas\" or \"Doramas' Wood\". These days, there are old caserios (country-houses) between hills and cliffs with its medicinal waters. The town area is surrounded by huge volcanic valleys and is well known for its Neo-Romanesque church. This impressive structure dates back to the first half of the 20th century. Moya is the birthplace of the Spanish poet Tomás Morales Castellano.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082467", "title": "List of music festivals in the United Kingdom", "text": "List of music festivals in the United Kingdom\n\nThere are a large number music festivals in the United Kingdom, covering a wide variety of genres. Some of the U.K.'s music festivals are world-renowned and have been held for many years including the world's largest greenfield festival, Glastonbury, which has been held since the 1970s.\n\nLarge-scale modern music festivals began in the 1960s with festivals such as the Isle of Wight Festival and following the success of Woodstock in the United States and free festivals. Some began as jazz festivals - Reading Festival began as the National Jazz and Blues Festival in the 1960s and the first Glastonbury Festival was the 1970 Pilton Pop, Blues & Folk Festival.\n\nIn the 21st century the number of festivals has grown significantly, particularly with the emergence of smaller-scale \"boutique\" festivals. However, in 2011 and 2012, several festivals were cancelled at short notice - some due to weather conditions and some due to poor sales - prompting fears that the festival market is saturated.. In 2020 the number of UK festivals was approximately 241.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSome festivals do not appear in the same location every year, but in different places around the country, or even in other countries. Notable festivals to appear in the UK include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082478", "title": "Chastel Blanc", "text": "Chastel Blanc\n\nChastel Blanc (, Burj Safita or Safita Tower) is a medieval structure in Safita, western Syria. It was built by the Knights Templar during the Crusades upon prior fortifications. Located on the middle hill of Safita's three hills, it offers a commanding view of the surrounding countryside, and was a major part of the network of Crusader fortifications in the area. From the roof, a view ranging see from the Mediterranean Sea to the snow-covered mountains of Lebanon, and County of Tripoli, is offered. From Chastel Blanc it would have been possible to see the Templar strongholds at Tartus and Ruad Island to the northwest, Chastel Rouge on the coastline to the southwest, Akkar to the south, and Krak des Chevaliers (the headquarters of the Syrian Knights Hospitallers) to the southeast. \n\nThe region was initially controlled by the Crusaders by 1110, and was mentioned the first time in an Arab chronicle in 1112. The Knights Templar built a dungeon after 1117, then they possessed the tower by 1152. Later on, the tower was attacked by Nur ad-Din in 1167, to be recaptured by the Templars in the same year, and was rebuilt after the 1170 earthquake, then in 1188 after Saladin's invasion, and after the 1202 earthquake. The tower was eventually captured and destroyed by Baibars in 1271.\n\nThe tower served both as a chapel and a fortress, with thick walls constructed of massive and carefully fitted limestone blocks. The ground floor still contains a chapel, dedicated to St. Michael and used by the Greek Orthodox community of Safita. The second floor, which can be reached by a flight of partially destroyed stairs, served as a dormitory, and contains many small angled windows that were used by archers to defend the tower. Cut into the rock below the tower is a water cistern and a former weapons cache, essential elements in case of siege.\n\nFrom the other fortifications of the castle, only a portal at to the east of the keep can still be seen today. During the French Mandate for Syria and the Lebanon, efforts were made to restore the tower, causing great discomfort to the villagers that lived very close to it.\n\nIn 1946, when the castle's keep threatened to collapse, architect Pierre Coupel undertook an intensive programme of repairs.\n\nThe structure base dates back to the Phoenician era. However, the tower visible today is the remaining keep of the original castle. It has a height of , a width of , and a length of . A large bell is on the western wall, and its sound can be heard up to from Safita. The castle had to be restored in 1170 and 1202 following damages due to earthquakes. The keep in its current shape probably dates from the reconstruction after 1202.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082480", "title": "In the Path of God: Islam and Political Power", "text": "In the Path of God: Islam and Political Power\n\nIn the Path of God: Islam and Political Power is a book written by American historian and journalist Daniel Pipes on Islamic fundamentalism, published in 1983.\n\nThe book examines the role of Islam in politics, providing a perspective of its evolution against secularization, Communism, and modernity. The book further presents the relationship between Islam and political power over the history of Islamist ideology.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082483", "title": "Arthur Robertson (athlete)", "text": "Arthur Robertson (athlete)\n\nArthur James Robertson (19 April 1879 – 18 April 1957) was a Scottish runner who competed at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London. He won the gold medal in the 3-mile team race and a silver in the steeplechase.\n\nThe son of a Glasgow doctor, Robertson was educated at Kelvinside Academy, Glasgow, before moving to King's School, Peterborough at the age of 14. A brilliant all-round sportsman, he initially concentrated on cycling and only took up serious athletics at the age of 25, after a cycling injury.\n\nIn 1906, he joined Birchfield Harriers. In March 1908 he won both the English and International Cross-Country Championships and a second-place finish in the 4 mile race at the AAA championship earned him a place at the Olympics.\n\nRobertson won easily in the first round of the 3200 metres steeplechase, finishing in 11:10.0. In the final, he trailed for most of the race. At the bell, he passed one of the two then-leaders, American John Eisele. Robertson was not quite able to catch the other leader, however, and trailed fellow Briton Arthur Russell by two yards at the finish. His final time was 10:48.4. At the same Olympics he won gold as a member of the 3-man 3 mile team race; the first Olympic gold won by a Scottish man and the first by a Birchfield athlete. He also participated in the five miles event and finished fifth. His brother David was a member of the British cycling team at the same olympics.\n\nOn 13 September 1908 Robertson set a world record at 15:01.2 over 5,000 metres, running on a concrete cycle track in Stockholm. He retired from athletics after 1909 season and returned to cycling. Later, together with his brother, he ran a sports shop in Peterborough, and then passed it over to his son.\n\nRobertsone was posthumously inducted into the Scottish Sporting Hall of Fame in 2004. In January 2010, a new J D Wetherspoon pub in Perry Barr, Birmingham (close to Perry Barr Stadium, the former home of Birchfield Harriers) was named 'The Arthur Robertson' in his honour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082485", "title": "Les 100 tours de Centour", "text": "Les 100 tours de Centour\n\nLes 100 tours de Centour was a 1971–1972 French language children's television show made in Quebec by Radio-Québec. Its stories revolved around Verbo, a genie with magical power who was trying to recapture Centour (another genie who had escaped from the same land as Verbo).\n\nThe show's main purpose was language acquisition, which was conveyed by the way Verbo would do magic: when he needed to perform a trick, he would ask his talisman (named \"Memo\") for a formula (always in the form of \"it is a [subject], it is an [object], it is the [subject] of the [object]\".) He would then close his eyes and repeat, asking the children at home to do the same.\n\nCentour on his part would perform magic by reciting similar formulas while shaking his magic wristband (which looked like a gaudy wristwatch).\n\nVerbo's constant companion was Picot Cotton, a young human male whose family was often the target of Centour's tricks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082487", "title": "Minamoto no Yorimitsu", "text": "Minamoto no Yorimitsu\n\n, also known as Minamoto no Raikō, served the regents of the Fujiwara clan along with his brother Yorinobu, taking the violent measures the Fujiwara were themselves unable to take. He is one of the earliest Minamoto of historical note for his military exploits, and is known for quelling the bandits of Ōeyama.\n\nHis loyal service earned him the governorships of Izu Province, Kozuke and a number of others in turn, as well as a number of other high government positions. Yorimitsu served as commander of a regiment of the Imperial Guard, and as a secretary in the Ministry of War. When his father Minamoto no Mitsunaka died, he inherited Settsu Province.\n\nYorimitsu featured in a number of legends and tales, including the legend of Kintarō (Golden Boy a.k.a. Sakata no Kintoki), the legend of Shuten Dōji, and the legend of Tsuchigumo.\n\nRaiko is usually accompanied by his four legendary retainers, known as the Shiten'ō (The Four Guardian Kings). They were Watanabe no Tsuna, Sakata no Kintoki, Urabe no Suetake, and Usui Sadamitsu.\n\nThe Karatsu Kunchi festival in Karatsu City, Saga Prefecture, features a large float inspired by the helmet of Minamoto, being partially devoured by the oni Shuten Douji. \n\nRaiko wrote a renga with his wife, which appears in the Kin'yō Wakashū (nos.703-704):<br>\n\"tade karu fune no suguru narikeri\"<br>\n\"asa madaki kararo no oto no kikoyuru wa\"<br>\nThis translates as:<br>\na boat harvesting smartweed is passing by<br>\nI thought I heard someone rowing smartly before dawn\n\nA female version of Yorimitsu appears in the mobile game \"Fate/Grand Order\" under the name Minamoto no Raikō. This iteration of Yorimitsu appears as both a 5-Star Berserker and a 4-Star Lancer class Servant, both of which are limited to specific summoning events. Berserker Raikō debuted during the original Onigashima event while Lancer Raikō debuted during the Summer 2017 event. In \"Grand Order\", Raikō and Ushi Gozen are both the same person, which is the explanation to why Raikō's gender is female.\n\nThe main character; Raikoh Minamoto in the 2003 Xbox game Otogi: Myth of Demons, and its sequel Otogi 2: Immortal Warriors were loosely based on Minamoto no Yorimitsu (Otogi, Otogi 2) and The Four Guardian Kings (Otogi 2).\n\nThe 2005 anime: Otogi Zoshi was also based loosely on Minamoto no Yorimitsu and his retainers.\n\nRaikou's fictional descendant, the also named Raikou Minamoto, is the main antagonist in both the manga and anime versions of Tactics. The original Raikou himself later appears in the form of flashbacks.\n\nA female version of Raiko appears in the 2004 \"New Getter Robo\" OVA series, fighting Oni with swords made of Getter Alloy.\n\nMinamoto also appears on the game Onmyoji, as a ruthless onmyoji who made a deal with Orochi to create a shikigami under his control. Said shikigami is named as Onikiri, a manifestation of the Minamoto swords.\n\nAside from these, Minamoto also appears in the manga series, Toilet-Bound Hanako-kun, acting as the ancestor of the fictional exorcist character, Kou Minamoto, who was said to have been from the clan of the one who defeated Shuten Douji, one of the 3 Great Evil Youkai of Japan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082492", "title": "The Stuckists Punk Victorian", "text": "The Stuckists Punk Victorian\n\nThe Stuckists Punk Victorian was the first national gallery exhibition of Stuckist art. It was held at the Walker Art Gallery and Lady Lever Art Gallery in Liverpool from 18 September 2004 to 20 February 2005 and was part of the 2004 Liverpool Biennial.\n\nIt comprised more than 250 paintings by 37 artists, mostly from the UK but also with a representation of international Stuckist artists from the US, Germany and Australia. There was also a smaller accompanying exhibition of the Stuckist Photographers. A book, \"The Stuckists Punk Victorian\", was published to accompany the exhibition. Six fringe shows, created in association with the event, took place internationally.\n\nSome of the work was compared with the \"shocking\" work of YBAs, Jake and Dinos Chapman. The gallery posted a warning notice of some \"sexual and violent\" subject matter.\n\"Daily Mail\" journalist, Jane Kelly, exhibited a painting of Myra Hindley and was dismissed from her job.\n\nCritical reaction to the show ranged from \"dreadful\" to \"the next big thing in art\". Sir Nicholas Serota, director of the Tate gallery, visited the show and called it \"lively\". The Walker deemed it a very successful show and extended the run.\n\nIn 2005, the Stuckists offered 160 of the paintings as a donation to the Tate gallery. This was turned down by Serota on the grounds that the work was not of \"sufficient quality\". The rejection stimulated a campaign by the group over purchases of trustee work by the Tate, which was subsequently censured by the Charity Commission.\n\nThe Stuckists were founded in 1999 by Charles Thomson and Billy Childish to promote figurative painting and oppose conceptual art. The name was derived from an insult by Tracey Emin. The original group of 13 artists has now grown to an international movement of over 160 groups in 40 countries. Childish left the group in 2001.\n\nThe main show was in a large gallery at the Walker which normally houses works from the contemporary collection. The paintings were hung in a manner akin to the \"salon\" style, using the whole height of the wall. \"Founder and featured artists\" were each given their own space, while representative works from other UK and international artists were grouped accordingly. There was also a free-standing display of work which satirised the Tate Gallery and the Turner Prize.\n\nThe Gallery posted a notice:\nThe show was extended from two to five months and the Walker called it \"a really, really popular show and very successful.\"\n\nA separate smaller show at the Lady Lever Art Gallery concentrated on the theme of \"Art and Artists\", including Stuckist interpretations of past work by artists such as Thomas Gainsborough, Frans Hals and Georges Seurat. The gallery also staged the first national exhibition by the Stuckist Photographers.\n\nA 144-page book was published by National Museums Liverpool to accompany the show with 150 colour illustrations, including work by all the artists, as well as photographs showing the history of the group. A photograph from 1987 shows some of the group members in an earlier form as The Medway Poets, at which time Tracey Emin was associated with them. Other photographs are of demonstrations outside the Turner Prize, two artists (Ella Guru and Sexton Ming) getting married in drag, and Stella Vine in the \"Vote Stuckist\" show in 2001.\n\nThe book also includes two Stuckist manifestos, biographies of the artists, a section on Stuckist photographers, and two essays, \"A Stuckist on Stuckism\" by group co-founder, Charles Thomson and \"Manifestos From the Edge and Beyond\" by art historian Paul O'Keefe. The book was edited by Frank Milner and designed by March Design, Liverpool.\n\nThe image on the cover is a painting by Paul Harvey (acrylic on canvas, 212.5 × 75.5 cm), and was originally intended to accompany a previous show, the \"Stuckists Real Turner Prize Show 2003\", when the placard held by the main figure read \"SEROTA NEEDS A GOOD SPANKING\". Due to an argument between Harvey and another artist, Gina Bold, the painting was not used and the show was cancelled. Some months later the placard was repainted to promote the Walker show. The main figure is based on a photograph of the model, musician and DJ Emily Mann, taken by Charles Thomson.\n\nThomson's essay starts with an account of a confrontation with Sir Nicholas Serota in Trafalgar Square in 2001 on the occasion of a Stuckist demonstration against the installation of Rachel Whiteread's sculpture \"Monument\". It then traces the history of the group from origins in 1979 to its foundation in 1999, reviews \"A Dysfunctional Decade of Saatchi Art\", describes Stuckist demonstrations at the Turner Prize and gives background on artists who have left the Stuckists—co-founder Billy Childish, Stella Vine and Gina Bold. A final section puts the group in context in a wider historical view with a proposition that the development of Modernism has been a \"story of fragmentation\" and that it is necessary to provide a holistic approach. A passage by Eamon Everall is quoted to explain Stuckist art:\nPaul O'Keefe's essay, \"Manifestos from the Edge and Beyond\", is in three sections. The first treats the history of Modernism in Britain and the scorn that greeted the 1910 Post-impressionist exhibition. He describes the emergence of the homegrown radical movement, the Vorticists and how they clashed on one occasion, using brass knuckledusters, with rival avant-garde group the Italian Futurists. He includes Royal Academy President, Alfred Munnings', notorious 1949 speech, wanting to kick Picasso. He traces the evolution of radicalism into the new establishment, setting the scene for the Stuckist challenge to it.\nThe second section is an analysis of a BBC2 \"Newsnight\" programme on 19 October 1999 hosted by Jeremy Paxman with Charles Thomson attacking that year's Turner Prize and artist Brad Lochore defending it. Thomson was displaying Stuckist paintings, while Lochore had brought along a plastic detergent bottle on a cardboard plinth. At one stage Lochore states, \"if people say it's art, it's art\". Paxman asks, \"So you can say anything is art?\" and Lochore replies, \"You could say everything is art...\" At this point Thomson, off-screen, can be heard to say, \"Is my shoe art?\" while at the same time his shoe appears in front of Lochore, who observes, \"If you say it is. I have to judge it on those terms.\" Thomson's response is, \"I've never heard anything so ludicrous in my life before.\"\n\nPart three describes the Stuckists' line of argument as \"devastating in its capacity to demolish the pretensions of Conceptualism\" and cites Damien Hirst's observation that \"The best spot painting you can have by me is one painted by Rachel\" (one of Hirst's assistants). O'Keefe's conclusion remains undecided as to \"whether the Momart warehouse blaze indeed represents the funeral pyre of BritArt\" and as to the future of Stuckism's role \"from its outpost on the edge\".\n\n\"Daily Mail\" feature writer Jane Kelly, who is also a Stuckist artist, was sacked by the paper after exhibiting her painting \"If We Could Undo Psychosis 2\" in the show. The painting shows a family group of mother and two children with child-killer Myra Hindley substituted for the father and holding a teddy bear. Thomson said, \"It is not glorifying Myra Hindley, it's called psychosis—can anyone ever be healed is the question posed by this painting.\"\n\nKelly's sacking was reported on the front page of \"The Guardian\", which described how the \"Daily Mail\" had welcomed a previous work by Kelly showing London Mayor Ken Livingstone in the context of the 1944 Stauffenberg plot against Hitler, and commented:\nThe \"Daily Mail\"'s managing editor, Lawrence Sear, who dismissed Kelly, described as \"unmitigated rubbish\" the claim that the loss of her job was related to her artwork and that \"the departure of Jane Kelly is a matter only for her and the newspaper.\"\n\nThere was a very diverse reaction to the show. Adrian Searle, art critic of \"The Guardian\" called it \"dreadful\" and Tate Chairman, Paul Myners denounced it as \"a travesty\". \"Young British Artist\" Gavin Turk advised in a BBC interview that people should try to see the show.\n\nThe sexual and violent content of some of the paintings was commented on. Mark Lawson on BBC Radio 4 warned, with particular reference to a painting by Joe Machine of two sailors having anal sex, that the paintings might cause controversy, as they were \"certainly not ... conventional\" but contained \"very bold and explicit images\".\n\nSusan Mansfield in \"The Scotsman\" said they were \"far from traditional or conservative\" and \"as shocking as anything Jake and Dinos Chapman could produce\", adding \"the Stuckists have a strong philosophical base\". Simon Pia, another writer in the same paper, predicted the group would be \"the next big thing in art\".\n\nA review in the inflight magazine \"Velocity\" evaluated the work as \"a worthy argument for painting as the fundamental medium of artistic expression ... a refreshing willingness to be understood in today's world of oblique messages.\" \"The Sunday Times\" saw the presence of the work in an established national museum as \"another step on the road to critical acceptance\", as did the museum review site \"24hourmuseum\": \"\"They’ve spent years fighting the establishment. Now ... the Stuckists have been invited to join it.\"\n\nThere were also 6 simultaneous fringe shows:\n\nThe Rivington Gallery issued a statement from its Director, Harold Werner Rubin that he was showing work from private collections by ex-Stuckists, Stella Vine and Gina Bold, which had been barred from the Walker show because of their objection, as well as a painting \"Charity Work\" by Philip Absolon which had also been excluded. \"The Scotsman\" reported that Stella Vine had threatened to commit suicide if her work was in the Stuckist show.\n\nSir Nicholas Serota was dubbed the \"least likely visitor\" to the show, which included a wall of work satirising the Tate and Serota himself, such as Thomson's \"Sir Nicholas Serota Makes an Acquisitions Decision\". In fact, he did visit and met the artists, describing the work as \"lively\".\n\nIn 2005, the Stuckists offered a donation of 160 paintings from the show with a value of £500,000 to the Tate. This offer was rejected by Serota, who wrote, \"the works in question have been reviewed by our curators and presented to the Board of Trustees ... We do not feel that the work is of sufficient quality in terms of accomplishment, innovation or originality of thought to warrant preservation in perpetuity in the national collection.\" \"The Times\" reported:\n\nThomson said, \"The Tate ... rejected Modernism and artists such as Matisse and Picasso ... Now it has lost the nation the prime works of an international movement founded in Britain. A direct consequence of this was a media campaign Thomson led over the Tate's purchase of its trustee Chris Ofili's work, \"The Upper Room\". In 2006 the Charity Commission censured the Tate and ruled that it had broken the law in making the purchase and similar trustee purchases during the previous 50 years. \"The Daily Telegraph\" called the verdict \"one of the most serious indictments of the running of one of the nation's major cultural institutions in living memory.\"\n\nPhilip Absolon, Frances Castle, Elsa Dax, Eamon Everall, Ella Guru, Paul Harvey, Wolf Howard, Bill Lewis, Joe Machine, Peter McArdle, Mandy McCartin, Sexton Ming, Charles Thomson, Charles Williams\n\nStephen Coots, David John Beesley, Dan Belton, John Bourne, Jonathon Coudrille, Michelle England, Stephen Howarth, Naive John, Rachel Jordan, Jane Kelly, Emily Mann, Daniel Pincham-Phipps, Matthew Robinson, Mary von Stockhausen.\n\nGodfrey Blow, J Todd Dockery, Brett Hamil, Tony Juliano, ZF Lively, Terry Marks, Jesse Richards\n\nAndy Bullock, Larry Dunstan, Wolf Howard, Charles Thomson\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082505", "title": "Arrow Canyon Range", "text": "Arrow Canyon Range\n\nThe Arrow Canyon Range is a small, narrow Basin and Range faulted mountain range that runs south to north in Clark County, Nevada, United States. Its length is approximately 25 miles at a latitude 36˚35' - 36˚47', and its width is roughly 7 miles at a longitude of 114˚54' - 114˚47'. The base elevation is 3,000 ft, and it rises to 4,953 ft at its peak. It runs parallel to U.S. Route 93, where the western front is easily viewed along the entire length, only about 3.5 mi distant. Like many mountain ranges in southern Nevada, it has the distinctive bare gray limestone formations common in the region. The dark band towards the upper third is tilted and broken, showing the intense geologic activity from the past.\n"}
{"id": "2082506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082506", "title": "Harry Sewell", "text": "Harry Sewell\n\nHenry \"Harry\" Sewell (October 8, 1882 – September 15, 1953) was a British athlete. He competed in the 3,200 metres steeplechase at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London.\n\nIn the first round of the race, Sewell ran a tight race with James Lightbody of the United States, a former Olympic steeplechase champion. Near the very end, Sewell pulled away and won by about ten yards. This qualified him for the final, in which he placed fifth.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082508", "title": "M-35 (Michigan highway)", "text": "M-35 (Michigan highway)\n\nM-35 is a state trunkline highway in the Upper Peninsula (UP) of the US state of Michigan. It runs for in a general north–south direction and connects the cities of Menominee, Escanaba, and Negaunee. The southern section of M-35 in Menominee and Delta counties carries two additional designations; M-35 forms a segment of the Lake Michigan Circle Tour, and it is the UP Hidden Coast Recreational Heritage Trail, which is a part of what is now called the Pure Michigan Byways Program. Along the southern section, the highway is the closest trunkline to the Green Bay, a section of Lake Michigan. The northern section of the highway turns inland through sylvan areas of the UP, connecting rural portions of Delta and Marquette counties.\n\nM-35 is an original state trunkline that was first signposted in 1919, that was intended to run from Menominee in the south to near Big Bay in the north, before it was to turn toward L'Anse to end at Ontonagon. However, the section through the Huron Mountains in northern Marquette and Baraga counties was never built. Automobile pioneer Henry Ford helped halt this construction to gain favor with and membership into the exclusive Huron Mountain Club. Some discontinuous sections were later ceded to local control. The northern segment of the route between Ontonagon and Baraga was retained as a discontinuous segment of the highway; this northern segment was later redesignated as another state trunkline. The northern end was later rerouted out of the City of Negaunee into Negaunee Township to avoid mining activity near Palmer.\n\nM-35 is primarily a two-lane roadway, with the exception of the nearly section between Escanaba and Gladstone; this section is a four-lane divided highway that runs concurrently with US Highway 2/US Highway 41 (US 2/US 41). M-35 is also listed on the National Highway System along the US 2/US 41 concurrency. The southern terminus is in Menominee. From there, M-35 runs northeasterly to the Escanaba area before turning northwesterly to its northern terminus outside of Negaunee in Negaunee Township.\n\nThe southern terminus of M-35 is at the corner of 10th Street (US 41) and North Shore Drive north of downtown Menominee. It is a Y-shaped intersection near John Henes Park. This park sits on of land, and it was donated to the City of Menominee by German-American brewer John O. Henes in 1907. M-35 leads northeast from the intersection before turning north to head out of town. The highway runs northeasterly following the shoreline of the Green Bay, toward Escanaba. M-35 between Menominee and Gladstone forms part of the Lake Michigan Circle Tour and comprises a section of the UP Hidden Coast Michigan Recreational Heritage Route, one of the Pure Michigan Byways.\nAt the Menominee–Delta county line, M-35 passes from the Central to the Eastern Time Zone. After entering the south side of Escanaba, M-35 runs into town on Lake Shore Drive, passing to the south and east of the Delta County Airport before turning onto Lincoln Road. Just west of downtown, US 2/US 41 join M-35 at the intersection of Ludington Street and Lincoln Road. Ludington and Lincoln form the east–west and north–south axes respectively of the Escanaba street numbering grid. From these two streets, the east–west avenues and north–south streets are numbered in a grid in the City of Escanaba. US 2/US 41 enter Escanaba from the west along Ludington Street, turning north along Lincoln Road, joining M-35. Here, M-35 joins the National Highway System, which is a road system important to the nation's economy, defense, and mobility.\n\nFrom Escanaba, M-35 runs concurrently with US 2 and US 41 to Gladstone, where M-35 logs its highest average annual daily traffic (AADT) counts. The 2012 AADT figures show that an average of 14,744 vehicles use the highway per day on a segment in north Escanaba. Between the two cities, US 2/US 41/M-35 crosses the Escanaba River near the mouth just south of a paper mill. North of the Escanaba, the highway follows the shoreline of Little Bay de Noc to Gladstone. M-35 separates from US 2/US 41 at an intersection with 4th Avenue North in Gladstone. This also marks the location where the National Highway System, Lake Michigan Circle Tour and Pure Michigan Byway designations end on M-35.\n\nM-35 turns northwesterly in Gladstone through northern Delta County and southern Marquette County and crosses the Days River in Brampton. From Perkins north, M-35 runs parallel to the Lake Superior & Ishpeming rail line between the iron mines of Marquette County and Escanaba. The station of Maple Ridge was located in the community of Rock along this line. M-35 crosses into Marquette County in the unincorporated location of McFarland and crosses the rail line before reaching the Little Lake in the community of the same name. The highway runs east–west through Little Lake to Gwinn.\n\nBuilt as a company town by the Cleveland-Cliffs Iron Company, Gwinn is listed on the National Register of Historic Places as the \"Gwinn Model Town Historic District, Forsyth Township, Marquette County, Michigan\". M-35 follows Stephenson Avenue through the neighborhood of New Swanzy westward to the community of Gwinn. Inside Gwinn, the highway follows Pine Street northwest, passing through the downtown and into residential areas along Pine and Iron streets.\n\nM-35 runs northwest of Gwinn to Palmer along the outskirts of Cleveland-Cliffs' Empire Mine, where large piles of waste rock from the mining operations tower over the roadway. According to the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT), the segment through Palmer logged the highway's lowest AADT, only 487 vehicles per day, in 2012. North of Palmer, M-35 runs past Goose Lake to end in Negaunee Township. The northern terminus is east of Negaunee, just east of the former Marquette County Airport and the studios of WLUC-TV on US 41/M-28.\n\nThe first path along part of the modern M-35 roadway was the Sault and Green Bay Trail, an old Native American trail, between Menominee and Escanaba. This trail continued eastward from Escanaba to Sault Ste. Marie and southerly to Green Bay, Wisconsin. It was a narrow path of approximately in width, wide enough to permit single-file traffic. Another route, the Carp River Trail, paralleled the path of M-35 from Escanaba to the Marquette area as well. These footpaths were later used for the basis of gravel roads a century before the modern state highway system was created.\n\nOn May 13, 1913, the Legislature created the state's highway system; M-35 was not initially included. The system was signposted six year later, and M-35 was to run from M-12/M-15 (modern US 2/US 41) at Gladstone in the south to Palmer before terminating in Negaunee at M-15 (modern US 41). Several maps showed M-35 continuing north to L'Anse. At the time of M-35's creation, another designation, M-91, was assigned to a highway from Menominee northward to Cedar River. By 1930, M-35 was extended southerly along US 2/US 41 from Gladstone to Escanaba. From there, M-35 continued as a new highway along the Green Bay shoreline to Cedar River and supplanted M-91.\n\nIn 1919, the State Department of Highways, forerunner to today's MDOT, designated a scenic shoreline trunkline to run north from Negaunee to Skanee and L'Anse by way of Big Bay. The highway would continue from the L'Anse and Baraga area to eventually end at Ontonagon at an intersection with M-64. Local Upper Peninsula historian Fred Rydholm summarized the routing planned in 1925 as extending \"... in a northwesterly direction, across the Dead River, over the Panorama Hills, then west past the Elm Creek swamp, along the south side of Burnt Mountain, across the Cedar Creek, the Cliff Stream and out past Cliff Lake to Skanee and L'Anse\". This highway was designated as an extension of M-35, which ended in downtown Negaunee. Work was completed on a significant portion of the route in Marquette County by 1926. M-35 was routed east along M-15 toward Marquette before turning north-northwesterly toward Big Bay. This section of roadway follows the modern County Road 510 (CR 510) in Marquette County. Similar work was completed in Baraga County connecting L'Anse and Skanee by 1932.\n\nConstruction on the two ends left the center portion through the Huron Mountains unfinished and shown on state maps as a dashed line marked \"impassable\". One section running northwesterly from the modern CR 510 toward the Salmon Trout River, complete with guard rails and cement culverts has been called \"Blind 35\" since.\n\nOne of the first tasks for the State Highway Department was bridging the Dead River in Negaunee Township, north of US 41. The state solved the problem by buying a bridge in Pennsylvania, where bridges of this design were more common. MDOT describes the bridge as:\nThe bridge is still in place over the Dead River and previously carried CR 510 as the successor to M-35 in northern Marquette County. Known locally as \"The Steel Bridge\", it survived a May 15, 2003, flood caused by the breaching of the Silver Lake Dam. The Marquette County Road Commission had announced plans in 2006 to bypass the Steel Bridge with a modern replacement, leaving the existing bridge as a footpath or bike path. Construction on the bypass road and replacement bridge was begun in October 2007. The concrete work for the replacement span was started in late 2009, with an original projected completion date of November 1, 2010. The new crossing is above river level compared to the for the 1921 span. The total budget for bridge construction was $4.5 million (equivalent to $ in ) with an additional $1.7 million (equivalent to $ in ) for the approach work; the project had an 80 percent federal, 15 percent state and 5 percent county funding split. The new bridge opened to traffic in September 2010, diverting traffic from the Steel Bridge. Completion of the new span came after about a decade of planning.\n\nRecords of the Huron Mountain Club, an exclusive private organization with large land holdings in northern Michigan, show that Henry Ford visited the Upper Peninsula many times, including at least once with Harvey Firestone and Thomas Edison on Ford's yacht, \"Sialia\". Many of these trips involved research to keep his operations supplied. His UP land provided wood for the manufacture of Ford automobiles such as the Model T, which required of lumber per car. Ford, who was considering becoming the \"owner–producer–handler\" of the resources he needed, invested in sawmills in Alberta and Kingsford. He also bought the entire town of Pequaming, along the shores of the Keweenaw Bay. The town belonged to Dan Hebard, who also sold Ford a sawmill, tugboats, a 14-room bungalow, and land near the Huron Mountain Club. Hebard retired to spend his summers at a cabin on the Pine River on land belonging to the Club.\n\nFord built a hydroelectric dam along the Menominee River to supply power to the Kingsford mill, bought the Imperial Mine, and opened the Blueberry Mine near Ishpeming to supply iron ore. The Ford Railroad was constructed between L'Anse and the Cliff River for his logging operations on of timberland purchased in 1922. He often visited the Upper Peninsula on business, but as early as 1917, the year he ran for a seat in the U.S. Senate, he sought entry into the Huron Mountain Club. Since the club limited its membership, Ford worked to improve his chances. His admission would ultimately come when M-35 construction was halted in the Huron Mountains.\n\nHunters, campers, hikers, fishermen, and some landowners opposed highway construction near the Huron Mountains. Rydholm said, \"... there seemed to be no groundswell of sentiment in favor of it, but it looked as the though the die was cast and nothing could be done to stop it\". The Huron Mountain Club members opposed the highway because it would open vast reaches of the back country and might harm the wilderness. Highway construction would also open the possibility of a resort hotel; William C. Weber, a real estate developer from Detroit, owned property along Mountain Lake, in northern Marquette County. A Michigan attorney general's opinion provided a way for blocking the road if two-thirds of the property over which the road would pass was owned by people opposed to the project. The proposed highway was to cross two parcels of Huron Mountain Club property, but that was not enough to halt construction.\n\nIn 1926, Hebard was elected the new president at the Huron Mountain Club and changed its rules for admission. Before the changes, all existing members voted on new admissions, and four \"no\" votes meant rejection. After Hebard's changes, only club directors could vote, and only one \"no\" was needed to block election. In 1927, the road grading for M-35 had reached the Salmon Trout River. That same year, Ford bought more land near Mountain Lake. This property encompassed more than the requisite two-thirds necessary to stop construction of the road. In 1928, the road was moved to connect with the Big Bay Road (CR 550), leaving the stub of \"Blind 35\" behind. According to club records, \"by 1929, M-35 was dead in its tracks and Henry Ford was a member\". To commemorate his membership, Ford built a white pine log cabin on club property that cost between $80,000 and $100,000 in 1929 (equivalent to $ to $ in ).\n\nIn 1939, M-35 from Negaunee to Big Bay to L'Anse was officially canceled as a state trunkline highway. Constructed portions were turned over to local control, becoming Skanee Road in Baraga County and CR 510 in Marquette County. This left a discontinuous routing for 13 years. The southern segment of M-35 ran from Menominee to Negaunee, and the northern segment ran from Baraga to Ontonagon along the modern M-38. The two segments were rejoined in 1953, closing the gap left by the cancelled Huron Mountain route. M-35 signs were added to existing highway signs westward from the end of the southern segment at Negaunee along US 41/M-28 and US 41 to Baraga, to connect with the northern segment westward to Ontonagon.\n\nIn 1964, several abandoned underground mine shafts collapsed underneath the roadway, forcing a rerouting of M-35 out of the City of Negaunee. Before the rerouting, M-35 was routed from Palmer north to Negaunee using a portion of County Road near Lucy Hill. It also followed Silver Street connecting with part of Business M-28, a business loop of M-28, through downtown Negaunee to US 41 north of town. This former segment is still shown on some maps (such as Google Maps) as \"Old M-35\". Since this rerouting, M-35 runs from Palmer past Goose Lake to end in Negaunee Township. The only \"naturbahn\", or natural track, luge run in North America crosses the former routing of M-35 in Negaunee. This luge run crosses over the abandoned street at the end of County Road at Lucy Hill.\n\nThe last major changes to M-35 came in January 1969 when the section from Baraga to Ontonagon was given the M-38 designation. The M-35 concurrencies were removed along US 41/M-28 and US 41 in Marquette and Baraga counties. This change shortened the highway designation and moved the northern terminus to the present location in Negaunee Township. Since then, sections of the roadway were realigned in Richmond Township south of Palmer to straighten some of the many curves between Palmer and Gwinn in 1989. MDOT constructed a new 20-space commuter parking lot at the southern terminus of M-553 at M-35 in August 2008 as part of an effort to offer expanded ride-sharing opportunities in Marquette County.\n\nThe southern section of M-35 is a part of the Lake Michigan Circle Tour (LMCT). This tour was created in May 1986 through a joint effort between MDOT and its counterparts in Wisconsin, Minnesota and Ontario. On August 26, 2007, MDOT designated the southern section of M-35 along Lake Michigan as the UP Hidden Coast Recreational Heritage Trail running for between Menominee and Gladstone. As a part of the Pure Michigan Byways Program, M-35 passes the mouths of the Cedar and Bark rivers. Wells State Park is located on M-35 in Cedar River and Fuller Park is at the mouth of the Bark River.\nMDOT's press release states:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082511", "title": "Adrian C. Wilcox High School", "text": "Adrian C. Wilcox High School\n\nAdrian C. Wilcox High School is a public school located in Santa Clara, California. It is one of two high schools serving those living within the boundaries of the Santa Clara Unified School District. (Previously there were four high schools in the district. See below.) The school is named after Adrian C. Wilcox, who served on the Santa Clara Union High School Board of Trustees for over 30 years. Wilcox was first accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC) in 1966 and is accredited through 2009. In April 2005, Wilcox officially became a California Distinguished School.\n\nConstruction of the school began in the late 1950s. The school was named for the ranking member of the Santa Clara Union High School Board of Trustees, Adrian C. Wilcox. The school opened its doors in the fall of 1961 to what would become its first graduating class, the class of 1964, which entered as sophomores. The first graduating class to attend Wilcox for all four years was the Class of 1965.\n\nThe student body was split when Marian A. Peterson High School opened in the district and then later recombined when Peterson and Buchser High School's name was converted into middle schools. At that time, the student body voted to change the name of the mascot, newspaper, and yearbook, along with the school colors, to be more inclusive of the new students. The original mascot for Wilcox was The Warrior, the school colors were Green and Gold, the newspaper was The War Chants, and the yearbook was The Promethean. The original school song (All Hail Our Alma Mater) and fight song (Fight On Wilcox) are still in use today.\n\nIn February 2005, the Mission City Center for the Performing Arts, a building constructed adjacent to the school and across Calabazas Creek from the main campus, opened.\n\nThe school year typically begins in late August, consists of 180 school days, and usually ends on the second Friday of June.\n\nThe school newspaper is known as \"The Scribe\" and usually publishes seven issues per year.\n\nThe school yearbook is known as \"The Phoenix\".\n\nExtracurricular groups include a marching band (known as the Black and Gold Regime), orchestra, drill team (Chargerettes), cheerleaders (Spirit Squad), a theater troupe (Wilcox Stage Company), Color guard, a dance team, a debate team, and a choir.\nThey also have a winterguard, which is solo colorguard, and a winter percussion program. There are also many sports teams that students can join on campus, including soccer, basketball, and football.\n\nEach class is also designated a class color. The current colors are:\n\nThe colors are mainly used for the annual battle of the classes, known as Fantastics. Fantastics was formed as a spirit activity first held in 1995. The event takes place in March, and all the classes compete against each other in various physical contests (such as a tug of war). There is also a multitude of dances that each grade performs - opening dance, boys dance, girls dance, couples dance, advanced dance, and the finale dance. The competitors wear shirts with the color of their class.\n\nThe colors are on a four-year rotation, with the color of the graduating seniors being handed off to the upcoming year's freshmen (i.e. after the class of 2015 graduates this year, the incoming freshman of the 2015–2016 school year, or the class of 2019, will receive their class color of blue).\n\nYellow and Blue are Sister Classes and Red and Green are Sister Classes.\n\nHomecoming and Fantastics are all organized by ASB and the four class councils. ASB is composed of 17 students (13 officers and 4 class presidents). They are in charge of dances, rallies, and school-wide events. Every March, students run to be on ASB.\n\nA lower level of ASB consists of the four class councils. Each class council has nine members, with the class president also being part of ASB. Much like ASB, students must run for election to class councils. A class council candidate speaks in front of the class. Most students who are on ASB started as a class council member. Class councils are in charge of class funds, class fundraisers, activities, and Fantastics and Homecoming execution.\n\nThe music department includes male and female Glee Clubs, Choir, Chamber Choir, Marching Band, Dance Band, Pep Band, Concert Band, and Orchestra.\n\nThe instrumental programs listed in the 2015–2016 course catalog are Band, Jazz Band, and String Orchestra. Vocal offerings are Chorus and Canta Nova.\n\nThe Wilcox High School Marching band, the \"Black and Gold Regime\", is a competitive after school-program. Competitions include the Cupertino Tournament of Bands, Foothill High School Band Review, The Lodi Grape Bowl Classic, WBA Independence High School Field Show, and the Fairfield High School Tournament of Champions.\n\nDuring football/fall season, the concert band class performs at home games as the pep band, along with the colorguard and BGR members not in concert band. The BGR performs their show at halftime for most of the back half of the season.\n\nDuring the winter season, the department offers after school Winter Percussion and Winter guard. These programs are generally smaller than the fall season's, but rehearse just as often and also perform at competitions.\n\nThe 3 concerts put on by the Wilcox music program are the Winter Concert, the Spring Concert, and the Pops Concert. The Orchestra, Jazz band, Concert band and Marching band/Winter Perc Ensemble perform in the Mission City center for Performing Arts' theater. Admission to these concerts has always been free and open to the public.\n\nWilcox competes in the Santa Clara Valley Athletic League (SCVAL), a league which is split into two divisions: De Anza and El Camino.\n\nSports offered at Wilcox include:\n\nWilcox's Baseball program has won 5 CCS titles in the past 14 years (2000, 2002, 2004,2008, 2014). Wilcox baseball has had numerous athletes compete at the collegiate and professional level, including Carney Lansford.\n\nFrom 2009–2015, The Varsity Boys Track and Field Team remained undefeated in league competition. During the same time period The Varsity Girls Track Team was undefeated for a period of four years. During this time period, 2009–2015 the combined varsity boys and girls track teams had an overall win loss record of 84–4 with the boys at 42–0. In 2008–2009 the Wilcox Track and Field Team made history, both the girls and boys team went undefeated in their League for the first time.\n\nDuring the years 2009–2016 The Track and Field program at Wilcox HS produced:\n\n12 CCS Champions\n\n5 second-place finishers;\n8 Third Place;\n4 Fourth Place;\n\n26 State Championship Qualifiers;\n\n7 State Finalists;\n4 State medalists;\n\nThe Wilcox Track and Field Program has had two Olympic Athletes. 1999 Wilcox graduate Amin Nikfar, represented the Republic of Iran in the Men's Shot Put in the 2008 and 2012 Olympic Games. Former Head Coach and long time Science Teacher, Mike Buncic, represented the United States in the Men's Discus Throw in the 1988 and 1992 Olympic Games\n\nIn the 2008–2009, the girls Water Polo Team had their first ever perfect regular season before losing in CCS. In 2007, Wilcox's Badminton Team came third overall in their league. The Wilcox wrestling team went undefeated in the El Camino League in 2007–2008 season, winning the League champions. In 2008–2009 Wilcox football team made it to the C.C.S Finals against Menlo Atherton. In the 2009–2010 season, Wilcox played against Los Gatos in the CCS finals, and lost by 1 point in overtime. In 1995 and 1997, the Wilcox football team had its best seasons with winning 2 CCS Division II championships. The boys volleyball program at Wilcox earned a berth into the 2014 CCS Division 1 Playoffs for the first time in school history after winning the SCVAL-El Camino Division title.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082512", "title": "Fanfreluche", "text": "Fanfreluche\n\nFanfreluche was a French-language Canadian children's television show made in Quebec by Radio-Canada. The show made its debut in 1968 and ran for forty-six episodes until 1971. It starred Fanfreluche, a living doll (played by Kim Yaroshevskaya) who retold fairy tales and legends to the viewers. When the story went a way that displeased her, she would physically enter it to \"fix\" the ending which sometimes put her in a perilous situation.\n\nThe character of Fanfreluche (played by the same actress) had its debut in another Radio-Canada children's show called \"La Boîte à surprise\". From the character in this show, prominent Montreal businessman and Thoroughbred horse breeder Jean-Louis Lévesque named one of his fillies Fanfreluche. Believed to have used the name to please a grandchild, Levesque's filly became a Canadian and United States champion racehorse in 1970.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082515", "title": "John Doe (comics)", "text": "John Doe (comics)\n\nJohn Doe is an Italian comic book by Roberto Recchioni and Lorenzo Bartoli, published by Eura Editoriale. Graphically, it was created by Massimo Carnevale, who is also the current cover artist. Artist who worked for the series include Alessio Fortunato, Marco Farinelli, Walter Venturi and Riccardo Burchielli.\n\nJohn Doe is an employee of \"Trapassati Inc.\", a firm dealing with the management of death. His direct superior is Death herself, portrayed as a very beautiful and sarcastic woman. Doe has a relationship with Tempo (which is the Italian word for \"Time\"), who is in fact an incarnation of time itself. In his missions, he is helped by several characters, some also employees of Trapassati Inc., other coming from the \"Regno\" (Italian word for \"Kingdom\"), a place out of space and time where figures such as War, Famine and Pestilence live.\n"}
{"id": "2082517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082517", "title": "South San Jose", "text": "South San Jose\n\nSouth San Jose is the southern San Jose, California in Silicon Valley. The name \"South Side\" refers to an area bounded roughly by Hillsdale Avenue and Capitol Expressway to the North, Camden Avenue to the West, Highway 101 and Hellyer Avenue on the east, the border with the city of Morgan Hill towards the south, and to the west.\n\nNeighborhoods in South San Jose include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082520", "title": "Nobuyoshi Tamura", "text": "Nobuyoshi Tamura\n\nHis former students include Jorge Rojo Gutierrez, Toshiro Suga, Pierre Chassang and Alain Peyrache.\n\nSent by Morihei Ueshiba, Tamura arrived in France in the port of Marseille in 1964 as the final destination of his honeymoon cruise (he paid part of his trip by performing aikido exhibitions on the ship). In France, he succeeded Tadashi Abe as the Aikikai representative there and decided to stay in this country teaching aikido, despite the fact that he could barely speak French at that time. Other aikido teachers in France then included Minoru Mochizuki, Masamichi Noro and Mutsuro Nakazono.\n\nThe French Aikido Federation was split into two in the 1980s purely because of political reasons. Those who decided to stay loyal to Tamura were for an independent aikido federation created the from scratch, while those who preferred to remain under the Judo federation (), later became independent as the under the technical leadership of Christian Tissier. The two once rival federations are now regrouped under the UFA (Union des Fédérations d'Aïkido).\n\nIn his early years in Japan, Tamura was acquainted with macrobiotic founder George Osawa. In France, he befriended zen master Taisen Deshimaru who arrived in this country in 1965 and whom Osawa considered as his successor.\n\nTamura was an honorary citizen of the town of Lesneven, France, where he gave week long yearly summer seminars with fellow aikido sensei Yoshimitsu Yamada. The other two important aikido trainings he gave every year during the summer were and .\n\nHe first visited Hungary in 1988, and held camps there on a yearly or bi-yearly basis until 2009.\n\nTamura married Rumiko, a student in Morihei Ueshiba's dojo.\nTamura had three sons, one of them, Yoshimichi, having a successful career in the movie industry as an animator. He was the lead animator for the character Helga in the Disney motion picture \"\".\n\nTamura died of cancer on the night of 9 July 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082522", "title": "Streets of Laredo (novel)", "text": "Streets of Laredo (novel)\n\nStreets of Laredo is a 1993 western novel by American writer Larry McMurtry. It is the second book published in the \"Lonesome Dove\" series, but the fourth and final book chronologically. It was adapted into a television miniseries in 1995.\n\nThe book follows the adventures of Captain Woodrow F. Call as he tracks a Mexican bandit who is preying on the railroad. It was later made into a television miniseries of the same name starring James Garner as Captain Call. \"Streets of Laredo\" takes its name from a famous cowboy ballad. The title was originally used by Larry McMurtry for a screenplay that he wrote with Peter Bogdanovich, but which never materialized as a movie. He then rewrote it as the original \"Lonesome Dove\".\n\nBetween the events of the two books, quite a bit has happened. Lorena, lover of Gus McCrae, has left Clara and married Pea Eye Parker, of the former Hat Creek Outfit. They have several children, and own a farm in the Texas Panhandle. Pea Eye is thoroughly devoted to Lorena, and Lorena has learned to reciprocate and become almost equally attached to Pea Eye. Lorena teaches in a nearby schoolhouse. The cattle ranch (set up by the Hat Creek outfit in Montana) has collapsed. Newt is dead, fallen on by the Hell Bitch. Call has finally admitted to himself that Newt was his son. July Johnson is dead, and Clara lives alone. Call has gone back to being a Ranger and a gun-for-hire. Trains have greatly expanded the reach of civilization and have pushed back the frontier. The American West is no longer rough and tumble and Captain Woodrow F. Call has become a relic, albeit a greatly respected one. Nineteen-year-old Joey Garza and his deadly German rifle (capable of killing a man at a distance of half a mile) are not about to let law and order close the book on the Wild West just yet.\n\nThe book opens with former Ranger Captain Woodrow F. Call (now a bounty hunter) and Ned Brookshire, the \"salaried man\" of the title. Brookshire has been sent to Texas from New York City by his boss, railroad tycoon Colonel Terry, to contract Call's services in apprehending a bandit. The bandit in question is a young Mexican named Joey Garza, who has cost Terry significant business and money through his deadly train robberies. Brookshire is surprised that the old man he encounters has such a reputation, though he notes that Call does have a rather dangerous and respect-demanding aura about him. Brookshire himself does not strike a particularly imposing figure, and soon proves not to be cut out for train or horse travel, inexperienced in the ways of the west or violence, and very homesick for his bossy but loving wife, Katie. Call, on the other hand, is the very picture of experience. Though he is old and seems almost to have trouble lifting his foot into the stirrups, his reputation speaks for him. He has spent forty years on the border and the frontier, many of those with his more talkative but equally respected late partner, Gus McCrae. Protecting settlers in innumerable skirmishes with hostile Indians, rustlers, and dangerous gangs has earned him a great deal of respect and a reputation that generally strikes fear into the hearts of criminals. \nFamily is a focal point of McMurtry's book, with the emphasis on two very different families. One is that of Pea Eye Parker, Call's corporal, a fellow former-ranger who assists Call in his bounty-hunter duties. Pea Eye is now married to Lorena Wood (Lorie), the whore heroine of \"Lonesome Dove\" and now a school teacher and mother of five. Pea Eye is increasingly pressured by his wife and children to stop following the captain in pursuit of bandits, but his loyalty and devotion to Call usually prevails. Though he initially refuses to accompany Call and Brookshire in the hunt for Joey Garza, his guilt wins out and he soon sets out after Call, accompanied by the celebrated Kickapoo tracker, Famous Shoes. The second family that dominates the plot of \"Streets of Laredo\" is the family of Joey Garza. Joey's mother, Maria, is the midwife of a small Mexican village on the Rio Grande. She has had a string of brief, failed marriages and has three children, of which Joey is the oldest. Of the other two, her daughter, Teresa, is blind from birth, while her other, Rafael, is very slow.\n\nOne of Maria's husbands sold Joey to the Apache Indians as a slave when he was a small boy; by the time he came back to Maria and her family, he was a bitter, angry, silent boy who was obsessed with killing and stealing (unknown to Maria, Joey killed her third husband, the only one who was kind to her or her children). Joey possesses a fine German rifle with a telescopic sight, which enables him to shoot his victims from a half-mile away. At the outset of the novel, Joey is hiding out in Crow Town, an outlaw village deep in the borderland desert. One of the other notorious denizens of Crow Town is the legendary Texas gunfighter, John Wesley Hardin. Maria travels by horse to Crow Town to warn Joey that Call is on his trail. Joey disappears, stealing his mother's horse, and rides to Langtry, Texas, where he shoots and hangs Judge Roy Bean, the \"Law West of the Pecos\".\n\nAs Call and Brookshire search for Joey Garza, they discover that he is not the only outlaw preying on the railroad. A string of strange murders soon leads Call in the pursuit of a ghost from the past - Mox Mox (or, as the Apache call him, \"The Snake You Do Not See\"). A former flunky of Blue Duck, of Lonesome Dove fame, Mox Mox is known for burning his captives alive. Mox Mox was thought to have been killed years before, but had just been in hiding at sea, and has now returned at the head of a murderous gang. The news is especially traumatic for Lorie, who herself had nearly been burnt by the villain while she was a captive of Blue Duck. Fearing for the lives of her children, Lorie sends them to Nebraska, to the protection of her friend Clara Allen. She then sets off to find Pea Eye to warn him. Pea Eye and the Kickapoo Famous Shoes, unaware of the threat of Mox Mox, continue south to find Captain Call. They are thrown into the Presidio jail when the sheriff accuses Famous Shoes of being a horse thief (he came across Famous Shoes eating a dead horse several years ago and decided that it was stolen) and decides to hang him. Captain Call hears of their plight and frees them from jail (near-killing the sheriff in the process in a furious beating) and continues in pursuit of Mox Mox. He ambushes the gang just as they are about to burn two children alive, killing outright all but two - Quick Jimmy, a renegade Cherokee, who escapes unscathed, and Mox Mox himself, who limps off to die.\n\nAfter rescuing Pea Eye and Famous Shoes from a corrupt bordertown sheriff, Call and his gang close in on Joey Garza. Ned Brookshire is killed in a scuffle; the anticipated confrontation between Call and Joey leaves Call seriously wounded; Lorie must amputate a leg to save him. The Mexican bandit is instead shot and mortally wounded by Pea Eye. Garza then drags himself back to his native village and attempts to kill his younger siblings, Teresa and Rafael, for whom he has long reserved his greatest hatred. Maria, mother of the three children, attempts to stop Joey; he stabs her. A local villager then shoots Joey dead. Maria dies from her wounds, and at her request, Pea Eye and Lorie adopt Maria's two surviving children, returning with them to their farm. Call, crippled and no longer able to pursue bandits, goes to live with them. He becomes increasingly attached to Teresa, Maria's blind daughter, demonstrating for the first time an attachment to anyone besides Gus McCrae, and perhaps, secretly his son Newt.\n\n\n\"Streets of Laredo\" received mostly positive reviews.\nHowever, the \"New York Times\" criticized McMurtry for including several hard-to-believe scenes.\n\nIt was later made into a U.S. TV miniseries starring James Garner replacing Tommy Lee Jones (from the Lonesome Dove miniseries) as Captain Woodrow F. Call, Sissy Spacek replacing Diane Lane as Lorena, and Sam Shepard replacing Timothy Scott as Pea Eye. Also featured were Randy Quaid as John Wesley Hardin, Ned Beatty as Judge Roy Bean, Wes Studi as Famous Shoes, Charles Martin Smith as Ned Brookshire, George Carlin as Billy Williams, Alexis Cruz as Joey Garza, Kevin Conway as Mox Mox, James Gammon as Charles Goodnight, and Sonia Braga as Maria Garza.\n\n\"Streets of Laredo\" appeared in the 2017 television episodes \"Goodwill\" and \"Search\" of American television series \"Halt and Catch Fire\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2082523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082523", "title": "Guy Holdaway", "text": "Guy Holdaway\n\nCharles Guy Holdaway (28 February 1886 – 1973) was a British athlete. He competed at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London.\n\nIn the first round of the 3200 metre steeplechase competition, Holdaway defeated countryman Joseph Kinchin and a pair of Americans, winning a chance to compete in the final. There, he started off quickly but fell to fourth place, finishing with a time of 11:26.0.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082526", "title": "I'm in Marsport Without Hilda", "text": "I'm in Marsport Without Hilda\n\n\"I'm in Marsport Without Hilda\" is a science fiction short story by American writer Isaac Asimov. The story first appeared in the November 1957 issue of \"Venture Science Fiction Magazine\", and was reprinted in the collection \"Nine Tomorrows\" in 1959, in a bowdlerized version. The complete original version appeared in \"Asimov's Mysteries\" (1968). It is a mystery story in a science fiction setting.\n\nA Galactic Service agent, Max, is in Marsport without his wife, Hilda, for the first time in a long time. He plans to visit a beautiful and accommodating woman of his acquaintance named Flora, but his plans are disrupted when he receives an unexpected assignment. His supervisor informs him that a new source of altered Spaceoline has appeared. While regular Spaceoline is a common anti-nausea treatment, a chemical modification can turn it into a dangerous narcotic. The Service suspects that one man in a group of three VIPs is smuggling the drug.\n\nAll three men appear to be in the inebriated, free-association state which regular Spaceoline produces, but since the actual criminal cannot afford to impair his own judgment, he must be faking. The easiest method of determining the criminal among them would be a simple search. However, Max's supervisor firmly rejects this: only one of three men is guilty, and the consequences of performing such a rough operation on two innocent men of very high social standing would be extremely unfortunate. Max is forced to improvise.\n\nMax converses with the three men, trying to find the faker, but the criminal is clever enough to avoid detection. All three men take turns free-associating among themselves, and all three keep making statements which \"might\" be subtle clues or taunts, but could equally well be innocent. Growing ever more desperate as his time runs out, Max starts describing his planned evening with Flora in graphic detail. The two honest men are too inebriated to be affected, but the faker starts sweating and his breath becomes heavier, and that gives him away.\n\nMax manages to convince his overjoyed supervisor to give him a substantial monetary bonus in return for his service, which he uses to smooth over the problems between himself and Flora that arose when he had to postpone their date. However, just as he is about to meet Flora, his wife arrives in Marsport.\n"}
{"id": "2082534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082534", "title": "Keyhole State Park", "text": "Keyhole State Park\n\nKeyhole State Park is a public recreation area surrounding Keyhole Reservoir, northeast of Moorcroft in Crook County, Wyoming. The state park is managed by the Wyoming Division of State Parks and Historic Sites.\n\nKeyhole Reservoir, an impoundment of the Belle Fourche River, was formed by the Keyhole Dam project of the United States Bureau of Reclamation, completed in 1952. The reservoir has a total capacity of 334,200 acre-feet and water surface of 13,700 acres, which provides storage for irrigation, flood control, fish and wildlife conservation, recreation, sediment control, and municipal and industrial water supply. Although located in Wyoming, the reservoir's waters are allocated by compact to go 90 percent to South Dakota and 10 percent to Wyoming.\n\nThe state park features multiple campgrounds, a concessionaire-operated marina, fishing and other water recreation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082536", "title": "Dead Man's Walk", "text": "Dead Man's Walk\n\nDead Man's Walk is a 1995 novel by American writer Larry McMurtry. It is the third book published in the \"Lonesome Dove\" series but the first installment in terms of chronology. McMurtry wrote a fourth segment to the \"Lonesome Dove\" chronicle, \"Comanche Moon\", which describes the events of the central characters' lives between \"Dead Man's Walk\" and \"Lonesome Dove\". The second novel in the \"Lonesome Dove\" series was the 1993 sequel to the original, called \"Streets of Laredo\". \"Dead Man’s Walk\" was later adapted into a three-part miniseries of the same name, which aired in May, 1996.\n\nIn 1842, young Texas Rangers Augustus McCrae and Woodrow Call are introduced quickly and brutally to the rangering life on their first expedition, in which they are stalked by the Comanche war chief Buffalo Hump. After a narrow escape, the rangers return to civilization, only to quickly join an expedition to capture and annex Santa Fe, part of New Mexico (the part east of the Rio Grande) for Texas. The expedition, led by pirate and soldier of fortune, Caleb Cobb, is ultimately a failure; of the 200 initial adventurers, only about 40 survive, falling to starvation, bears, and Indians, only to be swiftly arrested by the Mexican authorities. Those survivors are forced to march the Jornada del Muerto (\"Dead Man's Walk\") to El Paso, and many, Mexican and Texan alike, die along the journey. The Texas contingent is reduced to ten persons when the captives panic after they observe cavalry drilling and are slaughtered in a blood lust as they flee. At their destination, the ten are forced to gamble for their lives by drawing a bean from a jar - a white bean signals life, a black bean death. Call and McCrae are among the five survivors. The last Rangers then return to Texas, escorting an Englishwoman and her son, who have also been held captive by the Mexicans.\n\n\n\"Dead Man's Walk\" details the earliest adventures of the young Woodrow F. Call and Augustus McCrae as they join up with the Texas Rangers on a fictional expedition based loosely on the historical Texan Santa Fe Expedition of 1841. Although the exact time frame of the story is not given, the historical context of the events occurring sometime in the early 1840s is authentic. The Republic of Texas did indeed attempt to annex part of New Mexico, in what historians refer to as the Texan Santa Fe Expedition. As seen in this story, it was a failure.\n\nDuring the course of this book, three other familiar and important characters are introduced. At a general store, McCrae meets Clara Forsythe, later to marry Robert Allen and become Clara Allen, Augustus's old flame in the original novel. In the same town, Call meets a prostitute named Maggie, later to become the mother of his illegitimate son, Newt. On their journey, they are tracked by the notorious Comanche warrior Buffalo Hump, future father of Blue Duck, whom they will hunt during their later days as Texas Rangers. Call and Gus also briefly encounter a fictionalized version of Charles Goodnight, a rancher and future close friend of Call's in \"Streets of Laredo.\"\n\nIn May 1996 it was screened on ABC as a two-part miniseries starring David Arquette as Augustus McCrae and Jonny Lee Miller as Woodrow F. Call.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082543", "title": "Félix et Ciboulette", "text": "Félix et Ciboulette\n\nFélix et Ciboulette was a French language children's television show made in Quebec City, Quebec. It aired from 1985 to 1989. It was an educational series that aired from Monday to Friday on Télévision de Radio-Canada. Each segment lasted fifteen minutes and revolved around handyman Félix (played by Jean-François Gaudet) and his female cat Ciboulette (a puppet voiced by Diane Garneau). During each episode, Félix would teach Ciboulette about various things, ranging from history to science to agriculture. Although the show targeted children, the depth of educational content was beneficial even to the adult viewer.\n\nOther characters that sometimes appeared were the neighbour's black dog Noiraud Picard (a puppet voiced by Ginette Guay), a rural friend Raymond (played by Denis Bernard) and his cousin, Ève (played by Céline Bonnier).\n\nApart from its educational content, Félix et Ciboulette promoted neighbourly behaviour, as well as understanding and tolerance for everyone. Both Félix and Ciboulette enjoyed dressing up to play tricks on each other, making the show pleasant as well as educational.\n\nIn between segments played various short cartoons.\n"}
{"id": "2082550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082550", "title": "William Galbraith (athlete)", "text": "William Galbraith (athlete)\n\nWilliam John Breden Galbraith (January 24, 1885 – October 12, 1937) was a Canadian athlete. He competed at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London.\n\nGalbraith led for most of his first round heat of the 1500 metres, but was passed by both of the other runners near the end and did not advance to the final. His time was 4:20.2. In the 3,200 metres steeplechase, Galbraith won his first round heat easily after the only other entrant retired mid-race. His time of 11:12.4 put him in good stead for the final. He did not have much success there, though, finishing last out of the six finalists.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082551", "title": "Supreme Court of the Irish Free State", "text": "Supreme Court of the Irish Free State\n\nThe Supreme Court of the Irish Free State was the state's court of final appeal. It was created in Article 64 of the Irish Free State Constitution. It was presided over by a Chief Justice. The number of judges on the court was laid down in the Courts of Justice Act 1924.\n\nThough the Irish Free State and its constitution were abolished with the commencement of a new constitution, the Constitution of Ireland on 29 December 1937, the Free State Supreme Court continued in existence as the provisional supreme court of the new state until 1961 when the new Supreme Court of Ireland, which had been created in 1937, was formally brought into being.\n\nThe Supreme Court of the Irish Free State met in two locations during its existence. Until 1931, while its headquarters, which had been destroyed during the Irish Civil War was being rebuilt, it met in St. Patrick's Hall in Dublin Castle. From 1931 onwards it met in the Four Courts in Dublin.\n\nUntil 1933, there was a right of appeal to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in London.\n"}
{"id": "2082553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082553", "title": "West Valley (California)", "text": "West Valley (California)\n\nThe West Valley refers to a portion of the Santa Clara Valley in Santa Clara County. It may more accurately be defined as the southwest portion of the valley, and includes the cities of Campbell, Cupertino, Los Gatos, Monte Sereno and Saratoga, as well as the southwestern portion of San Jose, including the neighborhoods/districts of West San Jose, San Tomas and Cambrian Park. The West Valley roughly corresponds to the area south of Interstate 280 and west of Meridian Avenue.\n\nThe West Valley is primarily suburban/residential in nature, although Cupertino is home to several high-tech companies, including Apple. Like the rest of Santa Clara Valley, the area was primarily agricultural through the 1950s and experienced explosive growth and development through the 1960s and 1970s. As part of Silicon Valley, the area is quite affluent, and Los Gatos, Monte Sereno, and Saratoga in particular have numerous million-dollar-plus homes and estates.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082558", "title": "Danny Deckchair", "text": "Danny Deckchair\n\nDanny Deckchair is a 2003 Australian comedy film written and directed by Jeff Balsmeyer. The majority of Danny Deckchair was shot in Bellingen, a Mid North Coast town in New South Wales.\n\nIt was inspired by the story of the Lawnchair Larry flight.\n\nDanny Morgan (Ifans) works as a concrete maker driver and construction worker who lives in a big Australian city with his girlfriend but is unhappy with his life. Danny yearns for the simple life while girlfriend Trudy (Clarke) fantasizes about bright lights and fast times. While Danny plans for their annual camping trip, Trudy tells him she has to work, so the trip is off. In reality, Trudy is using her work connections at a local real estate agency to set up a meeting with a handsome local sports reporter, Sandy Upman (Muldoon). Danny sees them together while he's shopping for a weekend barbecue, leaving him even more disenchanted with their relationship.\n\nDuring the barbecue in his backyard, Danny, being an inventive character, ties a bunch of helium-filled balloons to his deckchair as his friends hold him down. When they inadvertently let go, Danny is set on an airborne adventure across Australia, which causes him to become a national sensation. As he floats over idyllically beautiful rural landscapes, totally foreign to the concrete structures of his discontent, he appears on the verge of some enlightenment. After he's beaten up in a rugged ride through a thunderstorm, fireworks from a small town's macadamia festival burst his balloons. Danny lands in a tree in Glenda's front yard as the remnants of his chair float away.\n\nGlenda (Otto), who was watching the fireworks from her front porch, sees Danny fall into the tree but doesn't see the deckchair. As firemen and townsfolk arrive to find out if the fireball caused any damage, they see Glenda helping a disheveled Danny. Glenda tells them that Danny is an old professor from college days and takes him into her house, which belonged to her parents. As he recovers from the harrowing end to his journey, the lonely Glenda, fascinated by the strapping Danny, doesn't press him about his past. Danny doesn't help matters by offering only vague explanations about his origins and unorthodox arrival in the town of Clarence.\n\nAs Danny explores the town, Glenda's friends wonder about their past relationship, but they are quickly won over by Danny's whimsical ways. This was easy to accomplish as Glenda's friends are just happy to see that the withdrawn, and sometimes despised, traffic officer is with someone special. Using his easy-going manner, Danny persuades Glenda to dress-up and go with him to the harvest ball. She gives him some nice clothes (formerly her father's) to wear to the ball. After Danny looks in the mirror, he shaves his beard and trims his hair. At the ball and around town, Danny's mysterious past, detached demeanour and off-the-wall ideas make him an instant hit with the townsfolk. His ideas that were considered hair-brained in the big city seem fresh in the small town of Clarence, and he is hired to become the manager of an aspiring politician's campaign. As they spend time together at Glenda's house, Danny finds her father's old motorcycle, which for sentimental reasons Glenda keeps in the shed. After she shows Danny pictures of her parents on the motorcycle exploring the country, Danny fixes up the old motorcycle when Glenda is at work.\n\nAll the while, the big city media can't get enough coverage of Danny's disappearance, constantly broadcasting interviews of his friends, family and co-workers. Trudy takes up with the sports reporter (Muldoon), who sees covering Danny's story and Trudy's suffering as a way to the top.\n\nBack in Clarence, Danny is forging a deep connection with Glenda. But their budding relationship is not viewed by everyone in town as all peaches-and-cream. Their flirtations arouse jealousy and suspicion in Glenda's male co-worker, the town's police supervisor, who busts them for speeding when they take Glenda's motorcycle out for a ride. But nothing fazes Danny as he continues to immerse himself in his ideal world. He even goes so far as to give a stirring speech at a political rally, and he is asked by some of the townsfolk to run for office.\n\nAll caught up in the dizzying events surrounding the political rally, Glenda and Danny spend the night together. He wakes reveling in his new soul-mate, gets dressed in a haze of happiness and steps outside onto Glenda's porch to greet the dawn of his perfect new life. However, local kids have found and reported the deck chair causing Danny's past to come crashing down upon him in a torrent of media frenzy.\n\nAs a shocked Glenda emerges from her house to see what all the noise is about, she spots Danny running down the street with a crowd in hot pursuit. Just then, Trudy and Upman drop down in a news helicopter and land in the street in front of Glenda's yard, stopping Danny dead in his tracks. Trudy reclaims Danny amidst an explosion of camera flashes to take him back to the big city, where she can bask in his new-found fame. As his half-truths become uncovered in the stark light of media exposure, Glenda rails against Danny as he's whisked away.\n\nAlthough she is angry at being deceived by Danny, his departure brings Glenda to the stark realization that she has been deceiving herself as well. She finally admits to herself that her life is at a dead end and she decides it's time for a change.\n\nMeanwhile, unhappily plugged back into his old job and with Trudy trying to capitalize on his fame, the deep changes within Danny that happened in Clarence make city life all the more unbearable. Danny confronts Trudy, tells her it's over and uses the connections his media storm have forged to get on a military plane to win Glenda back.\n\nBack in Clarence, Glenda has finished packing up her motorcycle and is saying goodbye to her friends. Just then, Danny parachutes out of the plane over Clarence and crash-lands in the tree in front of Glenda's house as she's starting to leave on her motorcycle.\n\nAt first, Glenda appears excited to see Danny; but immediately she starts yelling that he can't just drop in and everything will be all right. Glenda resolutely drives off before Danny can convince her how much he needs her and his new life in the town of Clarence. Dragging his parachute, Danny runs after her, shouting that he'll do whatever it takes to get back together. As she drives away, Danny's parachute cord gets caught on the back of the motorcycle and he is lifted into the air. As Glenda glances into her mirror for one last look at her old life, she notices Danny flying behind her and stops the bike. As he comes down, Danny and Glenda get entangled in the parachute, wordlessly embrace and kiss.\n\nAs the movie ends, Danny and Glenda, in their bathrobes, symbolically float upward in deck chairs as they talk about their future plans.\n\n\n\n\"Danny Deckchair\" grossed $1,050,383 at the box office in Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082561", "title": "Valleseco", "text": "Valleseco\n\nValleseco is a town and a municipality of Las Palmas province, on the Canary Islands. It is in the northcentral part of Gran Canaria. Valleseco means \"dry valley\" in Spanish, but is actually one of the wettest municipalities of the island. Its population is 3,904 (2013), and the area is 22.11 km². The elevation is 1,000 m.\n\nThe town Valleseco is situated 3 km southwest of Teror and 17 km southwest of the city of Las Palmas. Its landscape is characterized by deep valleys and ravines and a great vegetal richness that has resulted in more than 80% of the territory being protected by Nature Reserves.\n\nValleseco, at 1000 m. above sea level, often seems to be enveloped in a \"sea of clouds\". This helps to make the landscape very lush. Here, the trade winds deposit its precipitations, which, according to a local saying, \"seem not to wet but soak\", a type of wealth in the form of rain so appreciated by the country person, who thus sees his effort rewarded with productive crops of potatoes, corn and fruits.\n\nPossibly the best known building in Valleseco can be found here; the Saint Vicente Ferrer's Temple. Of simple construction, it is also the oldest building in Valleseco (1898), highlighting the pulpit and the coffering in its interior, built in mudejar style. There are also some images of great historical and artistic value that come from the old chapel that preceded this church, and a reliquary, containing part of a bone of the saint's arm, is venerated. The greatest reliquary, however, is a German organ from the 18TH century which came from the Church of the Pino in Teror and which has been recently restored/\n\nIn the Cornmeal Mill, built more than 80 years ago, two revolving stones grind the grain of maize and produce the toasted cornmeal, known as \"gofio\".\n\nThe Tourist Information Office is also located in the heart of the village. There is a permanent craftwork exhibition with different works, such as fabrics, musical instruments, wooden furniture, traditional Canarian costumes and openwork, made by artisans of the region.\n\nThe Barranco de la Virgen is one of the two principal ravines that cross the municipality of Valleseco. Flanked by high mountains, it is possible to listen the sound of silence.\n\nAs part of the Parque Rural de Doramas (Doramas Rural Park), the Barranco de la Virgen gives shelter to a forest of laurisilva, that used to cover the whole interior of the island in the past. One of its tributaries, the Barranco Oscuro, is especially notorious and, as it has received the category of Total Nature Reserve, it has the highest possible protection within the Canarian Nature Reserve Network. It runs between high cliffs that have preserved the endemic flora, which in many cases, can only be found in this area.\n\nDue to its abundance of water and its fertile lands, a flourishing agriculture was soon developed in the region and several stately buildings and estates of traditional architecture were built. These can still be seen along the ravine nowadays as well as the traces of ancient mills that bear witness to the past of the region linked to water.\n\nAround 2.5K away from the town center, La Laguna de Valleseco is located her with access from the crossroads between the roads to Teror GC-21 and Firgas GC-30.\n\nThe recreational area of La Laguna, situated in the Parque Rural de Doramas, was formed by a volcanic crater whose interior is covered with the distinctive vegetation of the laurisilva. The different trees that constitute this forest, the only one in the world, can be observed by walking by La Laguna. In fact, it is a small lagoon which all types of fowls approach to drink, from the little birds such as canaries and alpispas, to migratory birds such as herons.\n\nFollowing the GC-21 towards the high part of the municipality, we enter the Nature Reserve of the Protected Landscape of the Peaks, which is a territory of important vegetation for the collecting of water on the island. Many species of plants of botanical interest are located in this area, highlighting the Canarian pine among others.\n\nAbove Lanzarote, Gran Canaria's washing area there is a nature reserve called Cortijo de Calderetas. Access is gained from the road walking across a short track. Its historical origins date back to the time of the conquest of the island, just as the other estates found when continuing the route: Cueva Corcho, Crespo, Almaderos, Mesas de Galaz. It has large expanses of pine forest and chestnuts that have been reforested where, previously, there was nothing more than wasteland or pastureland. In the distance, the city of Las Palmas can sometimes be seen.\n\nThe Montañón Negro (Big Black Mountain) rises in the limit of the municipality. The rugged and dry landscape reveals its recent volcanic origin. Due to its geological characteristics it has been declared a natural monument, now belonging to the Canarian Nature Reserve Network.\n\nIn Valleseco there is a wide variety of gastronomy, mainly based on meat: pork, goat, beef or rabbit, marinaded, stewed or with sauce. The specialities are: the \"mojo the cochino\" (pork with typical Canarian sauce), kid goat in sauce, marinaded pork and rabbit, beef stew, roasted pork leg. Other well-known dishes are: vegetable stew with jaramagos, picked in the country, where they grow wild; watercress stew, made with this vegetable that grows in places designed for it; coriander soup, served with kneaded toasted cornmeal and goat cheese.\n\nThe main festivals in Valleseco are to honor Saint Vicente Ferrer, in mid May or at the beginning of June, depending on Easter. Another major celebration takes place the first Sunday of October in honor of Nuestra Señora de la Encarnación. It is also the Apple Festival, in which people of the town arrive dressed with traditional costumes the day previous to the main celebration day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082562", "title": "USS Putnam", "text": "USS Putnam\n\nUSS \"Putnam\" may refer to:\n\n\nSee also\n"}
{"id": "2082570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082570", "title": "University of Burundi", "text": "University of Burundi\n\nThe University of Burundi (, or UB) is a public university located in Bujumbura, Burundi. Founded in 1964, it comprises eight faculties and five institutes and has a student enrollment of approximately 13,000. It is based in three campuses in Bujumbura and a fourth in Gitega. It took its current name in 1977 and is Burundi's only publicly funded university.\n\nThe origins of the University of Burundi can be traced to the Agronomy Institute of the University of the Belgian Congo and Ruanda-Urundi, founded under Belgian colonial rule. In 1960 this became the Agronomical Institute of Ruanda-Urundi (\"Institut agronomique du Ruanda-Urundi\") and moved to Bujumbura, becoming the country's first major centre of higher education. Under the initiative of the Jesuit missions, three other specialist institutions subsequently emerged in Bujumbura after Burundi's independence in 1962. These institutions were merged to form the Official University of Bujumbura (\"Université officielle de Bujumbura\", or UOB) in January 1964. In 1977, the UOB merged with two vocational institutions to create the University of Burundi (\"Université du Burundi\", or UB).\n\nTeaching at the university has been significantly disrupted by political upheaval elsewhere in Burundi since independence. The Burundian Civil War (1993–2006) created particular problems, as did the accompanying socio-economic crisis which led to strikes, funding problems, and a brain drain of academic staff overseas. On 11–12 June 1995 ethnic Hutu students were massacred at the university by ethnic Tutsi.\n\nUB is affiliated to the Inter-University Council for East Africa (IUCEA), Regional Universities Forum for Capacity Building in Agriculture (RUFORUM), the Agence universitaire de la Francophonie (AUF), and the Conseil Africain et Malagache pour l'enseignement supérieur (CAMES).\n\nThe university is divided into faculties and institutes which are themselves made up of departments. The university currently comprises:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082573", "title": "Iniminimagimo", "text": "Iniminimagimo\n\nIniminimagimo was a French language children's television show made in Quebec. It played in the late 1980s. Each episode featured a classic fairy tale played by the same cast. \n\nScript writers for the series included Linda Wilscam, Marie-Francine Hébert, Maryse Pelletier and .\n"}
{"id": "2082587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082587", "title": "Al-Quds Brigades", "text": "Al-Quds Brigades\n\nAl-Quds Brigades (AQB) (, \"Saraya al-Quds\" meaning \"Jerusalem Brigades\") is the armed wing of the Palestinian Islamist organization Palestinian Islamic Jihad (PIJ), The head of AQB in Gaza was Baha Abu al-Ata. AQB's leader is Ziyad al-Nakhalah, based in Damascus, Syria. The PIJ is the second largest group in the Gaza Strip, after Hamas.\n\nAQB's parent organization, PIJ, is devoted to the establishment of an Islamic state, and the settlement of Palestinians in what it considers their rightful homeland within the geographic borders of the pre-1948 British-mandated Palestine. It refuses to participate in political processes or negotiations about a swap of Israeli and Palestinian settlements. The PIJ is majority funded by Iran.\n\nAl-Quds Brigades was founded in 1981 by Fathi Shaqaqi and Abd Al Aziz Awda in Gaza, and has been active in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, especially in the town of Jenin. Awda was designated a \"Specially Designated Terrorist\" by United States on 23 January 1995, and Shiqaqi was assassinated in Malta on 26 October 1995. \n\nThe group undertook numerous attacks on Israeli civilians, including suicide bombings; and has suffered extensive operations against its infrastructure carried out by the IDF, which resulted in severe losses to the group, and it appeared significantly weakened by 2004. \n\nOn 1 March 2006, Abu al-Walid al-Dahdouh, an AQB commander, was targeted and killed by an Israeli air strike in Gaza City as he drove past the Palestinian finance ministry. On 30 August 2006, the AQB West Bank leader, Hussam Jaradat, was shot and killed by undercover IDF in Jenin on 30 August 2006.\n\nIn the Gaza Strip, al-Quds Brigades continued its militant activities, including the indiscriminate firing of al-Quds rocket-attacks out of populated civilian areas. Al-Quds Brigades promotes the military destruction of Israel, including the indiscriminate firing of rocket, mortar fire and suicide bombings. The international community considers the use of indiscriminate attacks on civilian populations and the use of human shields, which are illegal under international law.\n\nIn March 2014, over 100 rockets were launched into southern Israel by PIJ and other Islamist groups. On 14 March, Ramadan Shalah, the then leader of PIJ, announced that the attack was coordinated with Hamas.\n\nBaha Abu al-Ata, the head of AQB in Gaza, was killed in a targeted killing in Gaza City on 12 November 2019, allegedly after having given orders for the launching of rockets into Israel. At the same time, Syrian media reported that another senior PIJ commander, Akram al-Ajouri, survived an airstrike in Damascus, but his son and daughter were killed. The next day, AQB launched more than 220 rockets into southern and central Israel, and on the next day the IDF struck several PIJ targets in the Gaza Strip killing two Palestinians, identified as 38-year-old Khaled Moawad Faraj, AQB's field commander, and 32-year-old Alaa Ashtyawu. Later that day, another three AQB members were killed in an IAF airstrike while attempting to launch rockets into Israel. A ceasefire was agreed for 14 November, by which time AQB had launched over 400 rockets into Israel and a total of 36 Palestinians had been killed, including 25 members of PIJ or other factions in the Strip. This time, Hamas made no effort to stand with or assist PIJ.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082589", "title": "Randy Oglesby", "text": "Randy Oglesby\n\nThomas Randell Oglesby (born 1949), usually known professionally as Randy Oglesby but sometimes credited as Thomas Oglesby, is an American actor, best known for his recurring role as Degra on \"\". He is also known for his other \"Star Trek\" roles, including captain Trena'L in the \"\" episode \"\", the Miradorn twins, Ah-Kel and Ro-Kel, in the \"\" episode \"\", Silaran Prin in \"\" and as the telepathic alien Kir in \"\", a season 5 episode of \"Star Trek Voyager\".\n\nHe played Professor Seidel in the \"Angel\" episode \"Supersymmetry\".\n\nOn \"\", Season 2 Episode 5, \"Loud as a Whisper\", aired 01-09-1989, he played one of three Interpreters known as Riva's Chorus.\n\nOglesby appeared in \"Independence Day\" (1996) as Mike Dodge. His most memorable moment is asking Randy Quaid if the aliens, whom he claimed abducted him, did any \"sexual things\".\n\nIn 2000, he made a guest appearance as Reverend Mackee in the seventh season episode \"Signs and Wonders\" of \"The X-Files\", and as Joshua Vinten (the manager of formalwear rental shop) on the second last episode of TV series \"Columbo\" (\"Murder With Too Much Notes\").\n\nOglesby made a guest appearance on the ABC soap opera, \"General Hospital\" in the role of Huell on July 17, 2007. In the same year he played Bethlehem Steel executive Walter Veith in the \"Mad Men\" episode \"New Amsterdam\".\n\nHe played Tom Jeter's father in \"Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip\".\n\nIn 2011, Oglesby played the role of Capt. Lachlan McKelty in the video game \"L.A. Noire\", that was developed by Team Bondi and Rockstar Games.\n\nIn 2017, Oglesby played the role of Asa Leopold in the Netflix limited series \"Godless\"\n"}
{"id": "2082595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082595", "title": "Nic and Pic", "text": "Nic and Pic\n\nNic and Pic () is a Canadian children's television show, which aired during the 1970s. Its stories revolved around the adventures of puppet mice Nic and Pic as they travelled around the world in a hot air balloon.\n\nThe series aired in French on Télévision de Radio-Canada from 1972 to 1977, and a dubbed English version aired on CBC Television from 1975 to 1977.\n\nThe French version was voiced by Jocelyne Goyette as Nic and Louise Matteau as Pic, while the English version was voiced by Joan Stuart as Nic and Madeleine Kronby as Pic. The puppeteers were Pierre Régimbald and Michel Fréchette.\n\nThe series was spun off to a number of children's books, written by Michel Cailloux and illustrated by Claude Poirier and Serge Wilson. The puppets also hosted the first francophone broadcast of the Toronto Santa Claus Parade in 1973.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082596", "title": "Neomys", "text": "Neomys\n\nThe genus Neomys is a group of three Eurasian water shrews from the subfamily Soricinae of the family Soricidae. These shrews are found in most of Europe and parts of northern Asia, as well as Turkey and Iran. Its member species are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2082597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082597", "title": "USS Lardner", "text": "USS Lardner\n\nTwo ships of the United States Navy have been named USS \"Lardner\" in honor of James L. Lardner.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082604", "title": "Pukehou", "text": "Pukehou\n\nPukehou is a farming locality in southern Hawke's Bay, in the eastern North Island of New Zealand.\n\nPukehou is located on State Highway 2, about halfway between Hastings and Waipukurau. The locality's name (originally \"Pukehouhou\") is Māori, and means \"Hill of houhou\", the 'houhou' or 'Puahou' being a small native flowering tree, \"Pseudopanax arboreus\" or \"Five Finger\" (Māori: 'Puahou' or 'Whauwhaupaku').\n\nChrist Church, the oldest church in Hawke's Bay and the Waiapu Diocese, was built by Samuel Williams in 1859. It was constructed of local timber with roofing of hand split totara shingles and measured 40 feet by 20 feet. It was extended in both 1881 and 1893, work in the latter date including the north and south transept and chancel. It church was repaired in 1959 with the roof being repiled, repainted and reshingled, and was repainted in 1993.\n\nThe church has two significant stained glass windows. The east window was designed by John Bonnor while Karl Parsons designed the north one. The church is registered as a Category I heritage building by Heritage New Zealand.\n\nPukehou Marae and Keke Haunga meeting house is a meeting place of Ngāti Kekehaunga, Ngāti Pukututu and Ngāti Whatuiāpiti, of Ngāti Kahungunu.\n\nPukehou School is a Year 1–8 co-educational state primary school. It is a decile 5 school with a roll of as of \n\nTe Aute College is a Year 9–15 boys' single-sex, state integrated secondary school. It is a decile 3 school with a roll of as of \n"}
{"id": "2082607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082607", "title": "Bradford Dillman", "text": "Bradford Dillman\n\nBradford Dillman (April 14, 1930 – January 16, 2018) was an American actor and author.\n\nBradford Dillman was born on April 14, 1930 in San Francisco, California, the son of Dean Dillman, a stockbroker, and Josephine (née Moore). Bradford's paternal grandparents were Charles Francis Dillman and Stella Borland Dean. He studied at Town School for Boys and St. Ignatius High School. He later attended the Hotchkiss School in Connecticut, where he became involved with school theatre productions. While at Yale University, he enlisted in the U.S. Naval Reserve in 1948. While a student, he was a member of the Yale Dramatic Association, Fence Club, Torch Honor Society, The Society of Orpheus and Bacchus, WYBC and Berzelius. He graduated from Yale in 1951 with a BA in English Literature. \n\nAfter graduation, he entered the United States Marine Corps as an officer candidate, training at Parris Island. He was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps in September 1951. As he was preparing to deploy to the war in Korea, his orders were changed, and he spent the rest of his time in the Marine Corps, from 1951 to 1953, teaching communication in the Instructors' Orientation Course. He was discharged in 1953 with the rank of first lieutenant.\n\nStudying with the Actors Studio, Dillman spent several seasons apprenticing with the Sharon, Connecticut Playhouse before making his professional acting debut in \"The Scarecrow\" in 1953.\n\nDillman first played in a Broadway play as part of the cast of the Eugene O'Neill play \"Long Day's Journey into Night\" in 1956, playing the author's alter-ego character Edmund Tyrone and winning a Theatre World Award in the process. The production also featured Fredric March, Florence Eldridge and Jason Robards Jr., and played for 390 performances until 1958.\n\nDuring 1955 he appeared in an episode of the television series \"The Big Picture\" as an MP patrolling the city of Augusta, Georgia. In 1957, Katharine Cornell cast him in a \"Hallmark Hall of Fame\" television production of Robert E. Sherwood's Pulitzer Prize winning 1940 play, \"There Shall Be No Night\".\n\nDillman was cast in the movie melodrama \"A Certain Smile\" (1958), for which he earned a Golden Globe award. He followed this with \"In Love and War\" (1958), a war movie featuring many of 20th Century Fox's young contract players. It was a financial success. So too was \"Compulsion\" (1959), featuring Dillman, Dean Stockwell and Orson Welles for producer Richard Zanuck and director Richard Fleischer.\n\nDillman shared an award for Best Actor with Stockwell and Welles at the Cannes Film Festival. After making the movie \"A Circle of Deception\" (1960) in London, Dillman was reunited with Welles, Fleischer and Zanuck for \"Crack in the Mirror\" (1960), filmed in Paris. It was unsuccessful. Back in Hollywood, Fox cast Dillman in support of Yves Montand and Lee Remick in \"Sanctuary\" (1961). They also had him in the title role in \"Francis of Assisi\" (1961).\n\nWhen he quit Fox, Dillman mostly concentrated on television. He guest-starred in a 1963 episode of \"The Virginian\", titled: \"Echo of Another Day\". He co-featured with Barbara Barrie in \"The Alfred Hitchcock Hour\" in the episode \"Isabel\" (1964). He appeared in 7 episodes of \"Dr. Kildare\" (1964-66) and 26 of \"Court Martial\" (1965-66). He guest-featured in television series such as \"The F.B.I.\" (6 episodes), \"Ironside\" (2 episodes), \"Shane\", \"The Name of the Game\", \"Columbo\", \"Wild Wild West\", \"The Eleventh Hour\", \"Wagon Train\", \"The Greatest Show on Earth\", \"Breaking Point\", \"\" (2 episodes), \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\", \"Barnaby Jones\" (6 episodes) and \"Three for the Road\", and a two-part episode of \"The Man From U.N.C.L.E.\", which was made into the feature movie \"The Helicopter Spies\" (1968).\n\nDillman appeared twice in the Western television series \"The Big Valley\" (1965–69), once in Season 2, Episode 15, titled \"Day of the Comet\", broadcast December 26, 1966; and the second time in Season 3, Episode 9, titled \"A Noose is Waiting\", which was broadcast November 13, 1967. He appeared in occasional movies during this period, including \"A Rage to Live\" (1965), \"Sergeant Ryker\" (1968), and \"The Bridge at Remagen\" (1969).\n\nDillman played painter Richard Pickman in the television adaptation of H.P. Lovecraft's 1926 story, \"Pickman's Model\", presented as the opening act of a December 1971 \"Night Gallery\" episode.\n\nDillman appeared in made-for-television movies such as \"Fear No Evil\" (1969), \"Moon of the Wolf\" (1972), and \"Deliver Us from Evil\" (1973). His film work included \"Escape from the Planet of the Apes\" (1971), \"The Way We Were\" (1973), \"Gold\" (1974), \"Bug\" (1975), \"The Enforcer\" (1976), \"The Swarm\" (1978), \"Piranha\" (1978), \"Sudden Impact\" (1983), and \"Lords of the Deep\" (1989). He appeared in 10 episodes of \"Falcon Crest\" (1982-83), and 2 of \"Dynasty\" (1984). His last known acting appearance was an episode of \"Murder, She Wrote\" in 1995, his eighth guest appearance on the series.\n\nDillman's football fan book, \"Inside The New York Giants\", was published in 1995. An autobiography, \"Are You Anybody?: An Actor's Life\", was published in 1997.\n\nFrom 1956 to 1962, Dillman was married to Frieda Harding, and had two children (Jeffrey and Pamela) with her. He met actress and model Suzy Parker during the production of \"A Circle of Deception\" (1960). The couple married on April 20, 1963, and had three children, Dinah, Charles, and Christopher. The marriage lasted until Parker died on May 3, 2003. Dillman is a cousin of the famed mystic, author, and heiress Aimee Crocker.\n\nDillman lived for many years in Montecito, California, and helped raise money for medical research. He died in Santa Barbara, California on January 16, 2018, aged 87, from complications of pneumonia.\n\nBradford Dillman was the actor's real name. He said \"Bradford Dillman sounded like a distinguished, phony, theatrical name -- so I kept it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2082608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082608", "title": "Deckchair", "text": "Deckchair\n\nA deckchair (or deck chair) is a folding chair, usually with a frame of treated wood or other material. The term now usually denotes a portable folding chair, with a single strip of fabric or vinyl forming the backrest and seat. It is meant for leisure, originally on the deck of an ocean liner or cruise ship. It is easily transportable and stackable, although some styles are notoriously difficult to fold and unfold. Different versions may have an extended seat, meant to be used as a leg rest, whose height may be adjustable; and may also have arm rests.\n\nIn Northern Europe, the remains of folding chairs have been found dating back to the Bronze Age. Foldable chairs were also used in Ancient Egypt, Greece and Rome. During the Middle Ages, the folding chair was widely used as a liturgical furniture piece . \n\nIn the United States, an early patent for a folding chair was by John Cham in 1855. Folding wooden chairs with woven or cane seats and backs, of the type now known in the UK as \"steamer chairs\", began to be used on ocean liner decks from about the 1860s, and were known at the time as \"deck chairs\". It is unclear whether they were first made in the US or Britain. In England, John Thomas Moore (1864-1929) took out a patent for adjustable and portable folding chairs in 1886, and started manufacturing them in Macclesfield. Moore made two types: the Waverley, described as \"the best ship or lawn tennis chair\", and the Hygienic, which was a rocking chair \"valuable for those with sluggish and constipated bowels\".\n\nEarly versions of the deck chair were made of two rectangular wooden frames hinged together, with a third rectangle to maintain it upright. A rectangular piece of canvas, of the type used in hammocks, was attached to two of the wooden rectangles to provide a seat and support. The use of a single broad strip of canvas, originally olive green in colour but later usually of brightly coloured stripes, has been credited to a British inventor named Atkins in the late 19th century, although advertisements of 1882 for a similar design refer to it as \"The Yankee Hammock Chair\", implying an American origin. Other sources refer to it as the \"Brighton beach chair\" or \"\"chaise transatlantique\"\" (\"\"chaise transat\"\"). The term 'deck' chair was used in the novels of E. Nesbit in the 1880s, and passengers on P & O liners in the 1890s were encouraged to take their own on board. The classic deckchair can only be locked in one position. Later, the strips of wood going toward the back were lengthened and equipped with supports so that there were several possible sitting positions. A removable footrest can also add to the comfort of the user.\n\nFolding deckchairs became widely popular in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. During the golden age of ocean liner travel, the deckchairs upon ships' decks were sometimes reserved for particular passengers for whom crew would attach a paperboard name tag to the wicker seat-back. Such a tag is visible on an empty deckchair near the center in a famous 1912 photo showing survivors of the RMS \"Titanic\" disaster after rescue while they rest on the deck of RMS \"Carpathia\". The same system was in use aboard \"Carpathia\" two years later; a reservation tag is visible on the empty deckchair in the lower right of a 1914 photo. The deckchairs shown on some of those photographs are of the more solid \"steamer chair\" type, rather than the portable canvas-seated chairs. The \"Titanic\" carried 600 such wooden chairs; six were known to survive, of which one was sold in 2001 for £35,000.\n\nThe hiring out of deckchairs, on an hourly or daily basis, became established in British seaside resorts, often for use on piers and promenades, in the early 20th century. They were also often used in large public parks such as Hyde Park, and for spectators at informal sporting events such as local cricket matches. With the widespread availability of lighter and even more portable forms of seating later in the century, the use of deckchairs declined. In one of the largest English resorts, Blackpool, 68,000 deckchairs were rented out in 2003, at £1.50 a day, but tourism officers suggested that they should be phased out, except on the piers themselves, because they were a reminder of the era of \"cloth caps\", and had \"had their time in the 50s and 60s\".\n\nA sunlounger is somewhat like a deckchair, and bed-like in nature. The rear surface can be tilted up to allow the user to sit up and read, or it can be reclined to a flat surface to allow sleeping in the horizontal position.\n\nTo \"\"rearrange the deck chairs\"\" is a popular saying meaning that things have changed only apparently. The phrase, \"rearrange the deck chairs on the Titanic\" amplifies on it by implying that someone is overly concerned with unimportant minutiae during a crisis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082612", "title": "Masyaf", "text": "Masyaf\n\nMasyaf ( \"\") is a city in northwestern Syria. It is the center of the Masyaf District in the Hama Governorate. As of 2004, Masyaf had a religiously diverse population of 22,000 Ismailis, Alawites and Christians. The city is well known for its large medieval castle, particularly its role as the headquarters of the Nizari Ismailis and their elite Assassins unit.\n\nThroughout the Islamic era and until the modern day, the Arabic name of the city was pronounced in a number of different ways by the inhabitants of the region as \"Maṣyaf\", \"Maṣyat\" or \"Maṣyad\". The Arabic name is a local pronunciation that evolved from the Assyrian name \"Manṣuate\". The \"nṣw\" in \"Manṣuate\" correlates with the Arabic \"nṣṣ\", which means \"to set up\", according to orientalist scholar Edward Lipinsky. Moreover, Lipinsky suggests that the Assyrian name was likely a configuration of the Assyrian word \"manṣuwatu\" which correlates with the Arabic word \"minaṣṣatu(n)\", both of which translate as \"raised platform\". This translation is indicative of the promontory that the Masyaf fortress occupies which overlooks the rest of the city and the surrounding area.\n\nMasyaf is the most probable site of the ancient Aramean city of Mansuate that existed in the 8th century BC. It later served as the administrative center of an Assyrian province by the same name in modern-day central Syria. Masyaf is also likely the site of Marsyas. Roman and Byzantine historians mentioned a city named \"Marsyas\" that governed the al-Ghab and Beqaa plains to the north and south of the site, respectively.\n\nMasyaf and its fortress were first mentioned by Crusader chroniclers in 1099. However, because a fortification at Masyaf likely existed prior to the 11th century, it is probable that the Aleppo-based Hamdanid dynasty built a fort at Masyaf, due to its position as an outpost overlooking the mountain roads. At that time, the fortress was a part of Jund Qinnasrin (Chalcis Province) of the Fatimid Caliphate. In the autumn of 999, Basil II, the Byzantine emperor, destroyed the fortifications at Masyaf as part of his campaign to gain control of Antioch and its environs from the Muslims.\n\nThe area would later come under Seljuk rule, but in 1099, the Crusaders attempted to wrest control of Masyaf (and the more strategically important Rafania) following their capture of Tripoli. The Seljuk atabeg of Damascus, Toghtekin, launched a military campaign to prevent the loss of the area and reached a short-lived accommodation with the Crusaders whereby Masyaf and Hisn al-Akrad would remain in Muslim hands, but have to pay tribute to the Crusaders. Sometime later, Masyaf was controlled by the Mirdasid dynasty. In 1127, the Mirdasids sold it to the Shaizar-based Banu Munqidh family.\n\nIn 1140, Masyaf was captured by the Nizari Ismailis, a sect of Ismaili Shia Muslims who had been exiled from their previous stronghold in Alamut in modern-day Iran. The fortress was being defended by a Banu Munqidh \"mamluk\" (slave warrior) named Sunqur, who the Ismaili force managed to ambush and kill. The Ismailis had chosen Syria as their new home and successively settled in the cities of Aleppo and Damascus and the fortress of Banias, each time being persecuted and massacred by the authorities or mobs of local residents incited by clerics who accused the Ismailis of being heretics or causing problems. Consequently, the surviving Ismaili leadership decided that establishing bases in Syria's cities and thus relying on the goodwill of various \"umara\" (princes) was untenable. Instead, they chose to settle in Jabal Ansariyah, a coastal mountain range dotted with fortresses, including Masyaf.\n\nFollowing its capture, Masyaf served as the principal fortress for the Ismailis' chief \"da'i\". Together with other fortresses acquired at around the same time, including al-Kahf, Khawabi, al-Qadmus and al-Rusafa, the Ismailis were able to carve an autonomous territory for themselves amid hostile Crusader states and local Muslim dynasties nominally affiliated with the Abbasid Caliphate. Masyaf served as the headquarters of the Ismaili \"da'i\" Rashid ad-Din Sinan and his elite unit of \"fida'i\" who were known as the Assassins.\n\nIn the mid-1170s, the Ayyubid sultan Saladin set about conquering Syria, ousting the Crusaders and uniting the Muslim world under Sunni Islam. The Ismailis considered Saladin a more dangerous threat than the Crusaders and allied with Saladin's rival in Aleppo to defeat the Ayyubids. Sinan's men launched two unsuccessful attempts to assassinate Saladin and in 1176, Saladin launched a punitive expedition against the Assassins in the strongly-defended fortress of Masyaf. Within a few days of the siege, Saladin withdrew due to an urgent need to redeploy against the Crusaders who were attacking Ayyubid territory in the Beqaa. He arranged a truce with Sinan mediated by the Ayyubid emir of Hama, Shihab al-Din Mahmud al-Harimi, Saladin's uncle.\n\nA wall around the town of Masyaf was built in 1249 by the Persian leader of the Ismailis, Taj al-Din Abu'l Futuh. In 1260, the Mongols under Hulagu conquered most of northern Syria and briefly occupied Masyaf. However, following the Mongols' rout at the Battle of Ain Jalut at the hand of the Bahri Mamluks later that year, they withdrew from Masyaf.\n\nIn 1262, Masyaf's rulers were ordered to pay tribute to the Mamluk sultan Baibars and some time after, the sultan had Masyaf's \"emir\" Najm al-Din Ismail replaced by Sarim al-Din Mubarak. Mubarak was later imprisoned in Cairo by Baibars and Najm ad-Din was briefly restored as \"emir\" before Masyaf was fully incorporated into the sultanate in 1270. Ismailis continued inhabiting it throughout Mamluk rule. Towards the end of the century, Masyaf became a major stopping point on the Mamluk postal route and was controlled by a commander who answered directly to the sultan due to its strategic role as a frontier fortress.\n\nIn 1320, the historian and Ayyubid emir of Hama, Abu'l Fida, noted that Masyaf was a \"center of the Ismailian Doctrine\" and that it was \"beautiful\" with gardens and a spring from which flowed a small stream. According to Ibn Battuta, who passed by the town in 1355, Masyaf was the center of a district belonging to the province of Tripoli and containing the fortress villages of al-Rusafa, al-Kahf, al-Qadmus, al-Ulayqa and al-Maniqa. Masyaf was later separated from Tripoli and transferred to the authority of Damascus province. In the mid-15th century, under Sultan Barsbay, a road was built that connected Masyaf with Tripoli, but the postal route no longer passed through the town. In 1446, the historian Khalil al-Zahiri described Masyaf as \"a pleasant town, with an extensive countryside\".\n\nMasyaf, along with the rest of Syria, was incorporated into the Ottoman Empire in 1516–17 following the Ottoman victory over the Mamluks at the Battle of Marj Dabiq. Masyaf became a part of the \"liwa\" (district) of Homs, and along with the other Ismaili fortresses in its vicinity (\"qala' al-da'wa\"), was responsible for paying a special tax. The town had a \"khan\" (caravanserai) which paid tolls to the Ottoman authorities. The tolls were abolished later in the mid-16th century. According to the Sufi traveler Abd al-Ghani al-Nabulsi, the \"emir\" of Masyaf in the early 1690s was a descendant of the Arab Tanukh tribe named Sulayman.\n\nIn 1703, the Raslan clan, an Alawite tribe, took over Masyaf and controlled it for about eight years until it was restored to the Ismailis following the intervention of the Ottoman authorities. In 1788, the \"emir\" of Masyaf, Mustafa ibn Idris, built a \"sabil\" (ablutions fountain) and a house that would be used by himself and successive Ismaili \"emirs\".\n\nIn 1808, the Raslan clan led by Sheikh Mahmud Raslan attacked Masyaf, killing its Ismaili chief, Mustafa Milhim, and his son, and captured the fortress. About 300 of the town's Ismaili inhabitants were also killed, while many others, including the \"da'i\" (religious chief) of Masyaf, fled for Homs, Hama and other areas in central Syria, settling in those places temporarily. The Ismailis had already been in the process of being gradually expelled from Jabal Ansariyah by Alawite clans. The Ottoman governor of Damascus, Kunj Yusuf Pasha, intervened in the matter, dispatching a force of 4,000–5,000 soldiers to recapture the town. After three months of fighting, the Raslans surrendered Masyaf. Ismaili control over the town and its fortress was restored in 1810.\n\nTwo years after the resettlement of Masyaf by the Ismailis, Johann Ludwig Burckhardt recorded an estimated population of 280 families, most of which were Ismaili and 30 were Christian. Burchardt noted that the town's citadel, many houses, the mosque and most other buildings were either heavily damaged or destroyed from previous fighting. Throughout the remainder of the 19th century, Masyaf's population continued to decrease.\n\nThe Allied Powers captured Syria from the Ottomans in 1917, after which the residents largely abandoned the fortress of Masyaf. British general T. E. Lawrence rested in Masyaf and remarked that the fortress was being used as a poorhouse at the time. During the French Mandate over Syria, the French separated the Jabal Ansariyah range from the rest of Syria to form the Alawite State. Masyaf was made a part of the State of Damascus, but in 1929, a number of rural Alawite villages in its immediate vicinity, including al-Rusafa, al-Bayyadiyah, Akakir, Maryamin and Abu Qubays, were ceded to the Alawite State. The latter merged with the rest of Syria in 1936. In 1939, Masyaf and its district was transferred from the Province of Hama to the Province of Latakia. Throughout the 1930s, rooms in the fortress were still being used by local residents.\n\nIn 1947, a year after Syria became independent from France, 3,808 Ismailis were recorded to be living in Masyaf. The Syrian government under President Amin al-Hafiz established Masyaf as a center for carpet weaving in 1965. The weaving workshops mostly employed women. In the 1960s, Masyaf's Ismaili community largely identified with the Nasserist movement, in contrast to the Alawites who dominated the surrounding villages who were mostly associated with the Baathists.\n\nIn 1970, much of the town of Masyaf still remained within the confines of the city walls. However, by 1998, its population and urban space had expanded considerably outside the walls. The fortress is situated in the northeastern part of Masyaf's old city. The walls remained in place, but the homes and gardens of local residents were built immediately alongside them. Within the walls is a mosque dating to the 12th century and according to local residents, is associated with Saladin. The fortress is considered a national monument and is directly under the authority of the Syrian Directorate of Antiquities.\n\nIn the Syrian Civil War after 2015, an alleged missile production facility in Masyaf and a base near the town, thought to be used by Iranian forces and militias, became repeatedly targets of airstrikes attributed to Israel.\n\nMasyaf is situated along the foothills of the eastern slopes of the Jabal Ansariyah coastal mountain range. The average elevation of Masyaf is 485 meters. It is just west of the al-Ghab Plain. The area is marked by gardens, orchards and fields of wheat and barley which are cultivated by local residents. To the north and south of Masyaf flow seasonal streams which feed into a tributary of the Orontes River, called al-Sarout.\n\nThe city of Hama is 45 kilometers to the east and Baniyas is 54 kilometers to the west. Hama is connected to the town via a road north of Masyaf which passes through al-Laqbah and Deir Shamil. Nearby villages include al-Rusafa to the southeast, al-Bayda to the south, al-Suwaydah to the southwest, Rabu to the west, Biqraqa to the northwest, Hurayf and Hayalin to the north, Zaynah to the northeast and al-Shiha to the east.\n\nMasyaf has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Köppen climate classification \"Csa\"). In winter there is much more rainfall in Masyaf than in summer. The average annual temperature in Masyaf is . About of precipitation falls annually.\n\nAccording to the Syria Central Bureau of Statistics, Masyaf had a population of 22,508 in the 2004 census. It is the administrative center of the Masyaf District and the Masyaf Subdistrict. The latter had a population of 68,184 in 2004. In the mid-1940s, its inhabitants were predominantly Ismailis. Today, it is a religiously mixed city of Ismailis and Alawites, with a Christian minority.\n\nMasyaf is featured as the base of operations of the Assassin Order in the \"Assassin's Creed\" games series (featuring in \"Assassin's Creed\" and \"\"). The village appears built on a rock, with the Masyaf fortress at the top.\n\n"}
{"id": "2082616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082616", "title": "Les Oraliens", "text": "Les Oraliens\n\nLes Oraliens was a French language children's television show made in Québec from 1968 to 1970; it was the first television program produced by the newly formed Radio-Québec, known today as Télé-Québec. Its stories revolved around aliens Calinelle (played by Lisette Anfousse) and Picabo (played by Hubert Gagnon), who both wore matching orange suits which included a mask and a mushroom-shaped headdress. The pair befriended the human Francolin upon arrival on earth. Other characters included the talking bird Couac (a puppet voiced by Gaétane Laniel) and the mechanical dog Millimagino.\n\nThe show's foremost purpose was language acquisition, which was conveyed by the way the aliens used their superpowers: in order to magically accomplish difficult or impossible tasks, they would state a sentence to be repeated and then silently mouthed it while children at home were supposed to say it. \"Les Oraliens\", unlike a contemporary children's program with a similar premise, \"Les 100 tours de Centour\", was more about proper pronunciation than sentence construction.\n\nThe show's purpose was also conveyed by the recurring bad guy, le Furotte (played by André Cartier), who always mumbled incoherently. There have been a few commentators over the years who have perceived in his speech pattern a parody of rural and working-class Quebec French, and have criticized the show as an effort to stigmatize some aspects of Québec French.\n"}
{"id": "2082621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082621", "title": "HIV-tainted blood scandal (Japan)", "text": "HIV-tainted blood scandal (Japan)\n\nThe , refers to an event in the 1980s when between one and two thousand haemophilia patients in Japan contracted HIV via tainted blood products. Controversy centered on the continued use of non-heat-treated blood products after the development of heat treatments that prevented the spread of infection. Some high-ranking officials in the Ministry of Health and Welfare, executives of the manufacturing company and a leading doctor in the field of haemophilia study were charged for involuntary manslaughter.\n\nAcquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, or AIDS, is a communicable disease caused by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus, HIV. AIDS is not curable. The first recognition of the emergence of an AIDS-like disease occurred in Los Angeles in 1981.\n\nIt was not until 1985 that the first cases of AIDS were officially reported in Japan. As early as 1983, however, Japan's Ministry of Health and Welfare was notified by Baxter Travenol Laboratories (BTL) that it was manufacturing a new blood product, licensed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which was heat-treated to kill HIV. BTL was interested in licensing this new product in Japan. The Japanese Green Cross Corporation (ミドリ十字), the main Japanese provider of blood products, protested that this would constitute unfair competition, as it was \"not prepared to make heat-treated agents itself\". The Ministry of Health responded by ordering screening of untreated blood products, clinical trials of heat-treatments, and a campaign to increase domestic blood donations. The Green Cross Corporation meanwhile distributed letters of \"safety assurance of unheated blood products\" to patients, many of whom suffered from haemophilia.\n\nThe first known case of infection with HIV in Japan occurred in 1979, affecting a haemophilia patient who was prescribed blood products by his doctor. A second patient was a Japanese male artist who had lived abroad for some years. Some other cases were also reported in the early 1980s and these patients were haemophilia patients or had homosexual experiences. After the intense media coverage on a HIV-positive woman who had contracted the virus through heterosexual intercourse, the disease became well known in Japan and the government ordered a study into the dispute over the safety of blood products.\n\nIn May and October 1989, HIV-infected haemophiliacs in Osaka and Tokyo filed lawsuits against the Ministry of Health and Welfare and five Japanese drug companies. In 1994 two charges of attempted murder were filed against Dr. Takeshi Abe, who had headed the Health Ministry's AIDS research team in 1983; he was found not guilty in 2005. Abe resigned as vice-president of Teikyo University.\n\nIn January 1996, Naoto Kan was appointed Health Minister. He assembled a team to investigate the scandal, and within a month nine files of documents related to the scandal were uncovered, despite the Ministry of Health's claims that no such documents existed. As Minister, Kan promptly admitted the Ministry's legal responsibility and formally apologised to the plaintiffs. \n\nThe reports uncovered by Kan's team revealed that, after the report about the possibility of contamination, untreated blood products were recalled by the Japanese importer. However, when the importer tried to present a report to the Ministry of Health, it was told that such a report was unnecessary. The Ministry claimed that there was a \"lack of evidence pointing to links between infection with HIV and the use of unheated blood products.\" According to one official, \"we could not make public a fact that could fan anxieties among patients\" [J.E.N].\n\nAccording to the files, the Ministry of Health had recommended, in 1983, that the import of untreated blood and blood products be banned, and that emergency imports of heat-treated products be allowed. A week later, however, this recommendation was withdrawn because it would \"deal a blow\" to Japan's marketers of untreated blood products [Updike].\n\nIn 1983 Japan imported 3.14 million litres of blood plasma from the US to produce its own blood products, as well as 46 million units of prepared blood products. These imported blood products were said to pose no risk of HIV infection, and were used in Japan until 1986. Heat-treated products had been on sale since 1985, but there was neither a recall of remaining products nor a warning about the risks of using untreated products. As a result, untreated blood preparations stored at hospitals and in patients' home refrigerators were used up; there have been cases reported in which individuals were diagnosed with haemophilia for the first time between 1985 and 1986, began treatment, and were subsequently infected with HIV, even though it was known that HIV could be transmitted in untreated blood preparations, and treated products had become available and were in use at that time.\n\nAs early as 1984, several Japanese haemophiliacs were discovered to have been infected with HIV through the use of untreated blood preparations; this fact was concealed from the public. The patients themselves continued to receive \"intentional propaganda\" which downplayed the risks of contracting HIV from blood products, assured their safety, and promoted their use. Of some 4500 haemophiliacs in Japan, an estimated 2000 contracted HIV in the 1980s from untreated blood preparations [J.E.N].\n\nRenzo Matsushita, former head of the Ministry of Health and Welfare's Pharmaceutical Affairs Bureau, and two of his colleagues, were found guilty of professional negligence resulting in death. Matsushita was sentenced to two years in jail. A murder charge was also brought against him. Matsushita, who after retirement became president of Green Cross, is one of at least nine former Ministry of Health bureaucrats who have retired to executive positions in Japan's blood industry since the 1980s (see \"ama kudari\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082626", "title": "Leightonfield railway station", "text": "Leightonfield railway station\n\nLeightonfield railway station is located on the Main South line, serving the Sydney suburb of Leightonfield. It is served by Sydney Trains T3 Bankstown line services.\n\nLeightonfield station opened on 24 August 1942 to service the adjacent munitions factory. It was transferred from Federal to State Government ownership on 1 February 1962.\n\nTo the south of the station lies the Southern Sydney Freight Line that opened in January 2013.\n\nHistorically Leightonfield was served by services from the city and Lidcombe operating to Liverpool. This changed in the early 2000s, when most services to Liverpool were altered to operate via Bankstown. Today Leightonfield is served by T3 Bankstown line services terminating at Liverpool and three Liverpool - City via Strathfield services on weekdays.\n\nLeightonfield station is served by one NightRide route:\n\n"}
{"id": "2082628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082628", "title": "Independence High School (San Jose, California)", "text": "Independence High School (San Jose, California)\n\nIndependence High School, also referred to as IHS, is a public high school located in the Berryessa district of Santa Clara County, California, United States. The school is operated by the East Side Union High School District (ESUHSD). Its namesake is the United States Declaration of Independence, which celebrated its bicentennial in the same year Independence High was established in 1976.\n\nIndependence is considered a magnet school, with three specialized programs, called \"academies\": electronics, finance, and teaching. Later magnet programs were extended into the performing arts and space technology, which were cut in 2009 due to budget constraints.\n\nIndependence students are called \"The '76ers\" and the mascot is named \"Sammy the Sixer\", who is an interpretation of an American founding father, George Washington.\n\nOut of the sixteen high schools ESUHSD operates, Independence services the largest student population, with 3,054 students as of the 2013-2014 school year. Out of these, 3.7% identified as White, 2.7% identified as African-American, 34.1% identified as Hispanic or Latino, 54.9% identified as Asian (19.0% identified as Filipino), 0.2% identified as American Indian or Alaska Native, 0.7% identified as Pacific Islander, 0.8% gave either mixed or no response, 8.4% are students with disabilities, and 17.6% of the student population are considered English learners.\n\nAs of the 2008-2009 school year, the pupil-teacher ratio was 21.8 to 1, with 94.4% of teachers being fully credentialed; as of the same time, the full-time equivalent of Independence's teachers is 157.4. Class size at Independence is an average of 26.8 students.\n\nIndependence High School consists of over fifty buildings, each labeled with a specific letter. The four primary groups of buildings are referred to as the villas, including A-Villa (American Hall), which includes the school bank; B-Villa (Bicentennial Hall); C-Villa (Constitution Hall), which includes the disciplinary committee; and D-Villa (Democracy Hall). During the fall of 2005,\nE-Villa (Eagle Hall) was removed indefinitely, only to be used as the name place for all music rooms. All villas are architecturally identical and surround a concrete clock tower in the middle of the school.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1979, the Independence High gym hosted San Jose State University men's basketball games.\n\nOther academic structures include complexes also labeled with letters, including the G-Complex, housing art classes; M-Complex, housing industrial classes; and the P-Complex, which are portable buildings currently in use by KIPP, which runs a charter school on campus called KIPP San Jose Collegiate. Independence also shares its campus with ACE Charter High School and Pegasus High School (alternative school). Pegasus uses what used to be known as the L- Complex. ACE moved into the H-Complex and shares the K-Complex with science classes that are part of Independence. In the summer before 2014-2015, Independence's administration office moved from the H-Complex to the N-Complex when they were rebuilding it after a fire damaged the complex. Along with the new administration offices, the school built a student center that quickly became popular with the students. B-Villa's main building was also affected by a fire in 2013 and opened for the 2016-2017 school year.\n\nAlong with a now-defunct planetarium, the school also houses Olympic-sized racing and diving pools, as well as an Olympic-regulation track. The Luis Valdez Center for the Performing Art went under construction in the summer of 2014. In the beginning of the 2012-2013 school year, the district gave all the high schools artificial grass fields in the stadium. Independence also contains seven tennis courts, four baseball fields, and two gymnasiums.\n\nIn fall of the 2013, the city opened a brand new public library right next to the G-Complex on Educational Park drive, using funds from bond measures passed in 2002 to construct 20 new public libraries in San Jose.\n\n\"The American\" was Independence High School's Columbia Scholastic Press Association Gold- and Silver Crown-winning yearbook. In 2008, Independence High School confirmed that \"The American\" would cease publication due to debt accumulation and budget problems.\nIn 2011 the school yearbook returned, using a site called MBROSIA, the students would be able to get a hard copy of their yearbook for their friends to sign, while also getting an online yearbook. In 2012 the school started using a different program with the company, Herff Jones. In 2013, the yearbook staff, along with Carla Hansen, and Stacy Johnson, kept the yearbook on and going, with the help of Yearbook, Editor-in-Chief, Alvin Castillo Bunales.\n\nUntil the late 1980s, a student newspaper titled the \"Declaration of Independence\" was distributed throughout the school, though it eventually ceased publication. During the mid '80s into the 1990s the school newspaper carried the name \"The Liberty.\" In 2004, three student papers—including \"The Independent Voice\", \"The Independent Times\", and a revived \"Declaration of Independence\"—were almost simultaneously founded, though by 2006 only \"The Independent Voice\" had any significant representation in the school. During the 2009-2010 school year, the \"Voice\" was the school's sole student-run, monthly newspaper, distributed throughout the school to selected classrooms and villas. As of the 2017-2018 school year, Graham Haworth, English teacher, re-established an official school newspaper called the \"Common Sense\". The publication is uploaded to the school website by the journalism class. All publication and equipment costs are funded solely through fundraisers and advertisement sales.\n\nIndependence High School's instrumental program, led by Dr. Kenneth Ponticelli, includes Symphony Orchestra, String Orchestra, Symphonic Band, and Wind Ensemble.\n\nUnder the direction of Bob Russell and Dan Smith, the marching band started with humble beginnings. Originally competing in jeans, T-shirts, and their trademark Cavalry Stetson hat. They found early success by defeating the powerhouse, and former National Champion Emerald Regime from Live Oak High School (Morgan Hill, CA). In 1979, the 76th Cavalry band made their first trip to Whitewater, Wisconsin to compete at the Marching Band of America National Championship. Their first endeavor came fractions of points away from the title. The band vowed to return. In the Summer of 1981, they did just that. The band completed their first undefeated season by capturing the MBA National Championship Title in 1981. Their repertoire was \"Light Cavalry Overture\"(Franz von Suppe), \"Imaginary Voyage\"(Jean-Luc Ponty), \"Sud de la Ciudad Del Oro\"(Mike Smith), \"She Believes in Me\"(Steve Gibb), \"Fanfare for the Common Man\"(Aaron Copland), \"Simple Gifts/Appalachian Spring\" (Aaron Copland/Elder Joseph Brackett). From there, the 76th Cavalry band went on an incredible winning streak and went undefeated for three more years. There were 12 members of the 76th Cavalry Band who won the National Championship at MBA and went on to win a World Championship with the Santa Clara Vanguard at the 1981 Drum Corps International Championships in Montreal, Canada. The band made a comeback in 2005 with a show entitled \"The Art Of War\", placing third overall in WBA class A, AA, and AAA Championships, at Johansen High School in Modesto Ca. In 2006, the 76th Cavalry became Class AA Champion with a performance of Antonín Dvořák's New World Symphony, garnering 85.85 points at preliminaries and 87.69 at the finals—the first championships the Cavalry had won since 1981. The 76th Cavalry placed fourth in the overall A/AA/AAA classification. In 2007, the 76th Cavalry became Class AA Champion once again with a score of 82.5. This allowed them to advance into finals with all other A, AA, and AAA bands, where they placed fifth overall with a score of 84.1. In 2008, the 76th Cavalry placed second in Class A with a score of 80.40, clinching High General Effect and High Auxiliary captions with their show entitled \"The Gathering, Selection by Rachmaninoff\". In 2009, the band again took second place with a performance of Sergei Prokofiev's music from the ballet Romeo and Juliet with a score of 85.25; also earning High Percussion. They moved onto A, AA, AAA Finals, and placed 4th overall with a score of 88.10. One of the Cavalry's highest scores ever! They also took High Auxiliary. The 76th Cavalry has also been invited to London in Winter 2009 to play in a New Year's parade. In 2015, the band's performance of Steven Reineke's composition, The Witch and the Saint took second place in Class A once again with a score of 82.65, breaking 80 for the first time in 6 years. As of the 2015 season, the Cavalry's colorguard section remains undefeated in their class (Winter season included) for three full years. In 2017, the Cavalry brought back a win as Class A Champions with a score of 83.70, the cavalry's highest score since 2009, and first win since 2007! The show was entitled \"Elements\" and featured the music of Brian Balmages and Gustav Holst. The Cavalry achieved the high visual award, and the colorguard captured High auxiliary, sustaining an undefeated season!\n\nThe Wind Ensemble have placed first in their division in many Heritage Festivals. During spring break of 2007, the Wind Ensemble went to the New York Heritage Festival and took first in their division, along with winning an Adjudicator's Award for a score over 92, and another award for receiving the highest score of all the instrumental groups at the festival. They brought home two trophies and a plaque, along with an invitation to the 2008 Gold Festival in Boston. The Wind Ensemble has taken a Unanimous Superior in the CMEA Festivals for the past 3 years (2006, 2007, and 2008). They have also been invited to play in many places around the world, including Britain, Australia, and China.\n\nEvery year, Independence High School hosts the CMEA Orchestra Festival, using both facilities: the Luis Valdez Theater and the E-Building. In 2012, the Symphony Orchestra placed Unanimous Superior.\n\nKeyboard and Vocal Music\nIndependence High School offers Class Piano under the direction of Tamara Feinberg, \"MM, Piano Performance\" in a modern piano lab with state-of-the-art electronic piano keyboard stations for each student. Piano is available for four years. Students present an annual monster concert each spring featuring solo and ensemble works for one to ten keyboards. Piano proficiency, general musicianship, and collaboration with other instrumentalists and vocalists is a priority of the curriculum. In addition, individual students have the option to participate in the California Music Teachers Association Certificate of Merit Auditions each year.\n\nConcert Choir is the ensemble for singers at Independence. The curriculum stresses individual vocal development through vocalization, world music repertoire, music theory, and aural and reading skills grounded in the Kodaly solfege system. The choir performs in the Fall Concert, Humming and Strumming in the Coffee House Winter Concert, a Fundraising Concert in January, a Spring Concert, the Final Concert, and Senior Honors Night. Vocal music students frequently collaborate with members of the keyboard, guitar, and instrumental music ensembles for performances. Concert Choir participates in local and regional music festivals such as CMEA, ACDA, and the East Side District Choral Festival. Music students enjoy the Bay Area arts events together on field trips to Opera San Jose performances and local productions of Broadway Musicals.\n\nIndependence High School's drama department annually produces a fall play and a spring musical. The productions are currently under the direction of Robin Edwards. Past plays have included Bus Stop (2005), The Miracle Worker (2006), A Midsummer Night's Dream (2007), Marisol (2008), An American Daughter (2009), Blithe Spirit (2010), Crimes of the Heart, The Laramie Project (2015), The Crucible (2016), The Comedy of Errors (2017), Pride and Prejudice (2018), and Arsenic and Old Lace (2019); past musicals have included Once on This Island (1999), Starmites (2000), Cabaret (2001), Pippin (2002), Grease (2003), Guys and Dolls (2004), Godspell (2005), (2006), Little Shop of Horrors (2007), Footloose (2008), Starmites (2009), Chicago (2010), They're Playing Our Song (2011), You're A Good Man, Charlie Brown (2012), 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee (2013), Seussical (2014), All Shook Up (2016), High School Musical (2017), Legally Blonde (2018), and Hairspray (2019). In 2018, Independence instated its first ever International Thespian Society Troupe (Troupe #8575) In 2020, the IHS Troupe took a one-act version of Seussical Jr, under the direction of Kim Messersmith and Daniel Lopez, to the North California ITS One- act competition, winning 2nd place. The productions are held at Independence's on-campus theatre, the Center of Performing Arts.\n\nDance classes offered at Independence include Jazz Dance, Ballet, Modern Dance, Theatre Dance (also known as IndepenDANCE, Independence's student-run audition-only dance company). Ballet and Cheerleading are taught and coached by Cristina McClelland, Modern Dance is taught by Kellye Dodd, and Jazz and Theatre Dance are joint efforts. The currentCheer captain is Jenny Andrade and the co-captain is Caroline Coto. Every year, the Jazz Dance classes perform at a school rally, while IndepenDANCE and the Spirit Squad performs several rallies throughout the year. The IndepenDANCE team holds a performance annually. Originally, Jazz Dance 1 was offered as physical education credit for students who had passed swim tests; however, Independence High School discontinued this practice in fall 2006, though Jazz Dance 1 may still be taken for the East Side Union High School District's performing arts graduation requirement.\n\nMost sports teams are divided among junior varsity and varsity teams, though Independence is one of the schools in the BVAL that does not offer a men's volleyball team or a field hockey team. Independence High School is most well known for its badminton team, which has won many BVAL league titles and even a few CCS titles. It received and independence wrestling state title in 1995 and was runner-up in 1994, 1996, and 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082632", "title": "George Hawkins (athlete)", "text": "George Hawkins (athlete)\n\nGeorge Albert Hawkins (15 October 1883 – 22 September 1917) was a British athlete. He competed in the 1908 Summer Olympics in London. He was born in Tottenham and died in Ypres.\n\nIn the 200 metres, Hawkins ran the race in 22.8 seconds to beat two other runners and advance to the semifinals. There, won again, this time finishing in 22.6 seconds. This allowed him to advance to the final, in which he placed last out of the four finalists. His time in the final was 22.9 seconds. The winner's time was 22.6, a time he had achieved in the semifinal.\n\nHawkins was killed in action, aged 34, during World War I, serving as a gunner with the Royal Garrison Artillery during the Third Battle of Ypres. He was buried in the Bard Cottage Cemetery nearby.\n\nHe was married to Violet Freeman and had five children with her.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082636", "title": "Mocha, Yemen", "text": "Mocha, Yemen\n\nMocha ( ') also known as al-Makha, is a port city on the Red Sea coast of Yemen. Until Aden and al Hudaydah eclipsed it in the 19th century, Mocha was the principal port for Yemen's capital, Sanaʽa.\n\nMocha is famous for being the major marketplace for coffee (\"Coffea arabica\") from the 15th century until the early 18th century. Even after other sources of coffee were found, \"Mocha\" beans (also called \"Sanani\" or \"Mocha Sanani\" beans, meaning \"from Sana'a\") continued to be prized for their distinctive flavor—and remain so even today. The coffee itself did not grow in Mocha, but was transported from places inland to the port in Mocha, where it was shipped abroad.\n\nAccording to the Portuguese Jesuit missionary Jerónimo Lobo, who sailed the Red Sea in 1625, Mocha was \"formerly of limited reputation and trade\" but since \"the Turkish assumption of power throughout Arabia, it has become the major city of the territory under Turkish domination, even though it is not the Pasha's place of residence, which is two days' journey inland in the city of Sana'a.\" Lobo adds that its importance as a port was also due to the Ottoman law that required all ships entering the Red Sea to put in at Mocha and pay duty on their cargoes.\n\nMocha reached its zenith in the 17th century, owing to its trade in coffee. The city boasted a stone wall enclosing a citadel, as well as a labyrinth of thatched huts that surrounded the wall from without. Of these, some four hundred accommodated Jewish households that engaged in trade. Passing through Mocha in 1752 and 1756, Remedius Prutky found that it boasted a \"lodging-house of the Prophet Muhammad, which was like a huge tenement block laid out in many hundred separate cells where accommodation was rented to all strangers without discrimination of race or religion.\" He also found a number of European ships in the harbor: three French, four English, two Dutch, and one Portuguese. In the 18th century, a plague killed half of the city's population, from which time the city never really recovered.\n\nEnglish, Dutch, and French companies maintained factories at Mocha, which remained a major emporium and coffee exporting port until the early 19th century. In August 1800 \"Phoenix\" visited. William Moffat, her captain, took the opportunity to prepare a chart of the mouth of the Red Sea. \n\nMocha was very dependent on imported coffee beans from present-day Ethiopia, which was exported by Somali merchants from Berbera across the Gulf of Aden. The Berbera merchants procured most of the coffee from the environs of Harar and shipped them off in their own vessels during the Berbera trading season. \n\nIn December 1820, HMS \"Topaze\" and ships and troops belonging to the British East India Company attacked the North and South Forts, destroying them. The action was in pursuit of British demands on the government of the city. A decade and a half later, Ibrahim Pasha of Egypt would also attack the city and destroy its fortified wall closest to the sea, as well as its citadel. However, by that time, Mocha's trade in its country's precious commodity of coffee grains (\"Coffea arabica\") had already been supplanted by Ethiopia which was the principal trader of this commodity to North Africa and which sold for a third of the price of the same coffee imported from Arabia. \nDiplomat Edmund Roberts visited Mocha in the 1830s. He noted that Turkish \"rebels\" possessed Mocha. The Turks took it over after they left Egypt while being disgruntled with the rule of Muhammad Ali of Egypt. These \"rebels\", consisting of confederates throughout Arabia, had banded together under one leader named Turkie ben al Mas. Jacob Saphir who visited the city in 1859 wrote about seeing many houses that were vacant of dwellers, although the Turkish governor still dwelt there with a band of soldiers, collecting taxes from local traders and ships visiting the harbor. When the British took control over Aden, the port in Mocha fell into disuse, being replaced by Aden. The general destruction of the city was still prominent as late as 1909, when German explorer and photographer, Hermann Burchardt, wrote of the city Mocha as he saw it: “This card will reach you from one of the most godforsaken little places in Asia. It exceeds all my expectations, with regard to the destruction. It looks like a city entirely destroyed by earthquakes, etc.”\n\nMocha was among the population centers in southern Yemen taken over by the Houthis during their military offensive in March 2015. The city was attacked by pro-Hadi forces in January 2017 and captured by pro-Hadi forces in February 2017.\n\nAt present, Mocha is no longer utilized as a major trade route and the current local economy is largely based upon fishing and a small number of tourists. The village of Mocha was officially relocated west along the Red Sea shore to accommodate the building and demolition of several coastal highways.\n\nKöppen-Geiger climate classification system classifies its climate as hot desert (BWh).\n\n\n\n"}
