{"id": "2108442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108442", "title": "Westport House", "text": "Westport House\n\nWestport House in Westport, County Mayo, Ireland, is a well known Irish tourist attraction that is owned by the Hughes family, who own a number of businesses in the west of Ireland. Until January 2017, it was the ancestral seat of the Browne family, whose head was the Marquess of Sligo. The title and the house were separated in 2014, following the death of The 11th Marquess of Sligo, who left the estate to his five daughters. His titles passed to his first cousin, Sebastian Ulick Browne, a residential estate agent in Australia.\n\nThe house was built by the Browne family in the 18th century, near the site of an O'Malley castle. The architects were Richard Cassels, who built (1730) the east section of the house facing the town, and later James Wyatt, who built the other three façades to form a quadrangle. Later, the quadrangle was filled in with a grand staircase. North and south wings were added to the designs of Benjamin Wyatt. The south wing, which contained a library, was burned soon after it was built due to a defect in the heating system. It was subsequently rebuilt.\n\nA model farm was built in the demesne during the early part of the 19th century, with accommodation for housing animals and animal feed. The remains of an old boathouse are open to the sea.\n\nColonel John Browne (1638–1711), who had the original Westport House built, married The Hon. Maud Bourke, daughter of The 3rd Viscount Mayo and the great-great-granddaughter of Gráinne Ní Mháille (Gráinne O'Malley). He was a Roman Catholic who fought on the Jacobite side in the War of the Two Kings. His descendants, however, converted to the established Church of Ireland, and prospered.\n\nAfter the death of The 11th Marquess of Sligo in July 2014, the house passed to his five daughters, in accordance with private legislation passed by the Seanad in 1993.\n\nWestport House also has a Pirate Adventure Park with a Pirate Ship thrill ride, Pirates' Plunge flume ride, mini Railway, white swan pedal boats, cannonball run slippery slide, Pirate's Den indoor soft play area, dungeons, Pirate's Playground, pitch and putt, fishing, Gracy's Bar and Cafe and a large Caravan and Camping Park set in secluded woodland.\n\nDesigned by the architects Richard Cassels and James Wyatt in the 18th century, Westport House is located west of the Shannon. It is situated in a parkland setting with a lake, terraces, and garden views overlooking Clew Bay, the Atlantic Ocean, Achill, Clare Island and Ireland's Holy Mountain, Croagh Patrick. It was built and was owned by the Browne family, who are direct descendants of the 16th-century pirate queen Gráinne O'Malley.\n\nThe Brownes sold Westport House to the Hughes family, a local business family in Westport, on 17 January 2017, ending an association with Westport House lasting hundreds of years. The Hughes family plan to spend €50 million on refurbishment, which wll create over 200 new jobs on the grounds of Westport House and the Hotel this will include accommodation on the 450-acre site. This investment will bring a major boost to the town and the wider Mayo area.\n\nIn 2007, the privately owned estate received a grant of 1.314M Euros for repairs to Westport House, from the state funded Heritage Council.\n\nIn October 2015, it was revealed that the Westport House Estate was in NAMA for debts secured on the estate, but not the house, for almost 10 million Euros. In January 2017, Westport House was sold to the Hughes family of Westport.\n\nThe house was built for and owned by the Browne family, some of whom were wealthy slave and plantation owners in Jamaica. A prominent slave-owning head of the family was The 2nd Marquess of Sligo and his wife, Lady Sligo (Lady Hester Catherine de Burgh). The 2nd Marquess served as Governor of Jamaica from 1834 to 1836.\n\nAn exhibition at Westport House styles The 2nd Marquess of Sligo as 'Champion of the Slaves', a suggestion that one historian refers to as 'hyperbole', pointing out that \"Browne benefited from slavery from the cradle to the grave and did not free his slaves until the institution of slavery was abolished by an act of parliament\", and that the 2nd Lord Sligo also claimed, and received, substantial compensation from the British Government for the loss of his slaves.\n\nThe Jamaican plantations (Kellys pen' and 'Cocoa Walk') and slave workers referred to above, came into the Browne family through the marriage in 1752 of Peter Browne to Elizabeth Kelly, only daughter and heir of Denis Kelly, from Co Galway who became Chief Justice of Jamaica in th 18th century.\n\nHowe Peter Browne, 2nd Marquess of Sligo spent the latter part of his life fightong against slavery both as Governor General of Jamaica and afterwards in the House of Lords. He is known in the history of Jamaica as 'Champion of the Slaves' and the first free slave village in the world, Sligoville, in Jamaica, is named in his honour.\n\nRefer 'The Great Leviathan: Howe Peter Browne, 2nd Marquess of Sligo, 1788-1845' for FACTUAL details.\n\nDuring the 16th century, Gráinne Ní Mháille or \"Granuaile\" was a famous 'pirate queen' of Connacht. After her death, a report stated that for forty years, she was the stay of all rebellions in the west. She was chief of the O'Malley Clan and ruled the seas around Mayo.\n\nThere is a bronze statue of Gráinne Ní Mháille by the artist Michael Cooper situated on the grounds of Westport House.\n\nThe original house was built by Colonel John Browne, a Jacobite, who was at the Siege of Limerick, and his wife Maude Bourke, who was Gráinne Ní Mháille's great-great granddaughter. The house then did not have the lake or a dam and the tide rose and fell against the walls.\n\nThe east front of the house as it is today was built in 1730 by Colonel John Browne's grandson, also John – 1st Earl of Altamont, who hired the German architect Richard Cassels. It is built with the finest limestone taken from the quarry south of the estate farmyard, and was executed by craftsmen. Richard Cassels also designed Carton, Haselwood, Russborough and Leinster House. \nWestport House was completed by James Wyatt, one of the greatest English architects, who also laid out the town of Westport. On the south facade is the date 1778. Inside, many of the ceilings, cornice and fireplaces are examples of Wyatt's finest works. The large dining room is perhaps the finest remaining example of his work. The doors are mahogany brought back from the family estates in Jamaica. There are still a number of original Wyatt drawings on show, along with some of his son's, Benjamin Wyatt, who also did some work in the house.The wings on the north and south sides of the house were built by Wyatt junior.The staircase and enclosure of the lightwell in the middle of the house was undertaken later.The last part of the development was the creation of the terraces on the west side of the house. The original library burned down shortly after it was built due to a heating misfunction.\n\nWestport House is also unusual in that it is complete with original contents, most of which have a long association with Ireland. Among the pictures are portraits by Sir Joshua Reynolds of the 1st Earl of Altamont, of the Rt. Hon. Denis Browne, brother of the 1st Marquess of Sligo and a member of Grattan's Parliament; and by William Beechey, of Howe Peter – the 2nd Marquess of Sligo, who spent four months in an English jail for bribing British seamen in time of war to bring his ship, full of antiquities from Greece, to Westport. Howe Peter was a friend of George IV and the poet Byron. There is a portrait of Earl Howe – Admiral of the Fleet, father of the 1st Marchioness of Sligo, by John Singleton Copley. Artworks also include a collection of landscapes painted in the locality by James Arthur O'Connor. Other artists such as Chalon, Barrett, Gibson, Opie, Brooks and Lavery are part of the collection.\n\nThere is also a collection of waxwork figures by Gems Display Figures, which are a tribute to the literary, arts and music achievements of west Ireland, including William Butler Yeats, Lady Gregory and Turlough Carolan.\n\nOther original items on show in Westport House are a fine collection of old English and Irish silver, which include some 18th-century Irish \"potato\" or dish rings; Waterford glass; a library with many old Irish books and the Mayo Legion Flag which was brought to Ireland by General Humbert when he invaded the country in 1798, and which has been in Westport House since. Westport House was occupied by General Humbert's troops.\n\nThe story of Westport House and the Browne family is a microcosm for the wider and, at times, turbulent history of Ireland. Each generation had to contend with and adapt to the prevailing social, political and religious changes encountered along the way. The Browne family remained the owners of Westport House for almost three hundred years, until 17 January 2017.\n\nThe Browne family came to County Mayo from Sussex, England, in the sixteenth century. Through marriage with the daughters of native Irish landowners and by purchase they built up a small estate near The Neale. As a Catholic family they were fortunate that their lands were situated in Connacht, thereby escaping the notorious confiscations of Cromwell.\n\nIt was with John Browne III (1638–1711) that the connection with Westport House commenced. A successful lawyer, he married The Hon. Maud Bourke, daughter of The 3rd Viscount Mayo and great-great granddaughter of 'the Pirate Queen', \"Granuaile\" (Gráinne Ní Mháille or Gráinne O'Malley; 1530–1603). Browne greatly increased his estate in Mayo and Galway including \"Cathair-na-Mart\" (the Fort of the Beeves), a ruinous O'Malley fortress on the shores of Clew Bay.\n\nBrowne's good fortune was soon swept away as Ireland was plunged into chaos in the Williamite Wars. A Catholic, he supported the Jacobite cause and was a Colonel in the Jacobite army. From the iron mines on his lands near Westport, he supplied the army with cannonballs and weapons. The defeat of the Jacobite army at Aughrim and Limerick in 1691 brought financial ruin in the confiscations that followed. At his death in 1711 his estate was reduced to \"Cathair na Mart\" and a few hundred acres. The Penal Laws which followed left his grandson, John IV, with little option but to conform to the prevailing religion in the hope of surviving the confiscations and political upheaval.\n\nBrowne gradually revived the family fortune. Young and ambitious, he set about extending his estate and transforming the old O'Malley castle into modern day Westport House. He replaced the old village of \"Cathair-na-Mart\" with a new town of Westport, where he established a thriving linen industry. An excellent farmer, he set about improving the fertility of his lands, which, for the most part, were of poor quality. In 1771, he was created The 1st Earl of Altamont. In 1752, his son and heir, Peter, 2nd Earl of Altamont, married the heiress, Elizabeth Kelly from County Galway, whose estates in Jamaica further enhanced the family fortune.\n\nJohn, 3rd Earl of Altamont, continued the innovative farming tradition of his grandfather. He created the lake to the west of Westport House, planted trees and employed James Wyatt to decorate the gallery and dining room. He laid out the principal streets of the present town of Westport, and many of the streets in Westport today are named after Browne family members such as Peter Street, James Street, Altamont Street and John's Row. He also established a theatre at The Octagon and built the town of Louisburgh. In 1787, he married Louisa Catherine, daughter and heiress of the English Earl Howe. During his lifetime the French-inspired 1798 Rebellion occurred. Aided by the arbitrary actions of Denis Browne, his younger brother, against the Irish insurgents (which earned him the reputation of 'black sheep' of the family), the Rebellion was crushed. The 3rd Lord Altamont was created The 1st Marquess of Sligo after the Act of Union in 1800. He seldom attended Parliament in London, being more content at home in Westport.\n\nHis only son Howe Browne, 2nd Marquess of Sligo, inherited in 1809 at the age of twenty-one. Extravagant and generous, his early life subscribed to the popular image of a 'regency buck'. Friend of Byron, de Quincy and the Prince Regent, he travelled extensively throughout Europe. He excavated at Mycenae and discovered the 3,000-year-old columns of the Treasury of Atreus. To bring them back to Westport, he took some seamen from a British warship, and was subsequently sentenced to four months in Newgate Prison. He married Lady Hester de Burgh, the Earl of Clanricarde's daughter, by whom he had fourteen children, and settled down to life in Westport. The 2nd Lord Sligo added the north and south wings, the library, and commissioned much furniture, china, silver and paintings for the House. He bred race horses both at Westport and at the Curragh. One of his horses, Waxy, won the Derby. He owned the last two of the breed of Irish wolfhound. In 1834, he was appointed Governor of Jamaica with the difficult task of overseeing the 'apprenticeship system', in a period prior to the full emancipation of the slaves. He met with great opposition from plantation owners and other vested interests. He was first to emancipate the slaves on the family's Jamaican plantations. The first 'free village' in the world, Sligoville, was subsequently named in his honour. A liberal, he was one of the few Irish peers to vote for Catholic Emancipation. He died in 1845 as the clouds of the Great Famine descended over Mayo.\n\nHis son, George, 3rd Marquess of Sligo, inherited a terrible legacy. The West of Ireland was worst affected by the famine. Westport House was closed and with no rents forthcoming, the 3rd Lord Sligo borrowed where he could, spending £50,000 of his own money to alleviate the suffering of the tenants. He imported cargoes of meal to Westport Quay and subvented the local workhouse, then the only shelter available to the destitute. He wrote tirelessly to the British Government, demanding that they do more to help the famine victims. He wrote and had published a pamphlet outlining many pioneering reforms of the economic conditions that had led to the famine. In 1854, on being offered the Order of St Patrick, an honour once held by his father and grandfather, disillusioned by Britain's Irish policy (a recurring sentiment at Westport House!), the 3rd Marquess wrote 'I have no desire for the honour.'\n\nLord John Browne succeeded his brother as 4th Marquess of Sligo in 1868. He had to contend with the huge changes that occurred in the ownership of land in Ireland in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century. Above all he was a 'professional' farmer, whose main contribution was to transform a reduced and almost bankrupt estate into a profitable one, solely from agriculture. This work was continued by the 6th Marquess who added a sawmill, a salmon hatchery and planted extensively. He also modernised the interior of the House and created the Italianate terrace to the west.\n\nThe compulsory acquisition of the main entrance to the House for local public housing occurred in the time of the 8th Marquess, which altered the historic relationship that had existed between the House and town of Westport.\n\nIn 1960, Denis, 10th Marquess of Sligo, his wife Jose and son Jeremy, Earl of Altamont (later the 11th Marquess), opened Westport House and the grounds to the visiting public. Over the succeeding decades the 11th Marquess and his family developed the estate into a major tourist attraction. From 5,000 visitors in the first year, Westport House has now welcomed over 4 million visitors.\n\nThe Browne family reluctantly put Westport House on the market in 2016 and sold the house to the Hughes family, a local business group, on 17 January 2017, ending the long links that bound Westport House to that family. The Hughes family have committed to major investments into improving the facilities and into the possibility of expansion.\n\nOn 23 and 24 June 2012, the inaugural Westport Festival of Music and Performing Arts took place at Westport House. Some of the acts that performed were Jools Holland, The Waterboys, Ryan Sheridan, Imelda May, Seasick Steve, Mundy, and Royseven.\n\nOn 26–27 August 2017, Aiken Promotions used Westport House as one of two venues for the first Harvest Country Music Festival. Acts included headliners Miranda Lambert & Nathan Carter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108445", "title": "Porky's II: The Next Day", "text": "Porky's II: The Next Day\n\nPorky's II: The Next Day is a 1983 sex comedy film and the sequel to the 1981 film \"Porky's\". The film is directed and co-written by Bob Clark. Unlike the previous film, Porky himself does not appear. A sequel, \"Porky's Revenge!\", was released in 1985.\n\nThe Angel Beach High School Drama Club is producing a Shakespeare Festival in which the group from the first film is participating. A religious leader named Bubba Flavel wants to halt the production because his group, \"The Righteous Flock,\" believe Shakespeare is indecent and profane. Flavel recruits the support of the local Ku Klux Klan chapter by informing them that the Festival will feature an interracial kiss between John Henry, a Seminole student playing Romeo, and a white Juliet played by Wendy. The students seek the help of County Commissioner Gebhardt, who promises to pull some strings to keep the Festival running on the condition that seventeen-year-old Wendy will go on a date with him. When it becomes clear that the \"date\" requires her to have sex with him, Wendy refuses and Gebhardt reneges on his promise. Though the Angel Beach principal supports his students, he is forced to cancel the Festival in the face of public outcry. The Angel Beach gang plots revenge against Flavel, Commissioner Gebhardt, the rest of the county commissioners, and the Klan.\n\nThe teens discover that the county commissioners, while publicly espousing decency and morality, secretly gather to watch stag films in the courthouse basement. The gang takes a tape recorder to the courthouse and record the commissioners' crude commentary on the films, which include remarks that Flavel provided the pornography.\n\nPretending she has changed her mind, Wendy agrees to a date with Gebhardt at a classy restaurant. Wendy arrives in a deliberately showy, vulgar gown with her breasts artificially inflated by a secret container of fake vomit. Throughout dinner, she constantly shouts out Commissioner Gebhardt's name, his upcoming reelection, and her own age, alerting the other patrons to the situation. Once she has the attention of the entire restaurant, she announces that Gebhardt took her virginity and that she is now carrying his child. Finally, to complete Gebhardt's humiliation, she uses the fake vomit to pretend to throw up in a fountain. When Gebhardt tries to sneak away, Peewee jumps out with a camera, promising to send the photos to the local newspapers.\n\nMeanwhile, the Klan attacks and beats John Henry. Learning of this, the gang lures the Klansmen (who are on their way to Flavel's celebratory revival meeting at the high school) into the school gym, where a group of Seminoles hold down the Klansmen while the gang's Jewish friend Brian shaves their heads with an izmel. The Angel Beach gang and the Seminoles then strip the Klansmen naked and force them to run across the stage of Flavel's revival. In the confusion, the gang commandeers the public address system and plays the recording from the courthouse basement. The outraged crowd turns on Flavel, the county commissioners, and the Klan, who are all forced to flee. As there is already a crowd at the high school and the performers are all present, the principal announces that the Festival is reinstated and will take place immediately. The students perform for a huge audience, and the Shakespeare Festival is a success.\n\n\nGreynolds Park in North Miami, Florida stood in for the Everglades and a plant nursery on Old Cutler Road was turned into a cemetery for the graveyard scenes.\n\nCowriter Swaybill later said \"It took us about six weeks to write the sequel. And it was before the cameras by June. The result was far less spontaneous. The kids just wanted us to be down and dirty.\"\n\n\"Porky's II: The Next Day\" was released on DVD on May 22, 2007, alongside \"Porky's\" and \"Porky's Revenge\", in a DVD box set called \"The Porky's Ultimate Collection\".\n\nKino Lorber released \"Porky's II: The Next Day\", along with \"Porky's Revenge\", as a double feature Blu-Ray on December 13, 2016. The theatrical trailer for the film is the only bonus material on the disc.\n\nThe film's gross receipts were considerably lower than the first \"Porky's\" film. While \"Porky's\" grossed $105 million in the North American market, \"Porky's II: The Next Day\" took in $33,759,266.\n\nReview aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 11% based on the reviews of 9 critics. The film was nominated for a Stinkers Bad Movie Awards for Worst Picture, but lost to \"Krull\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2108448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108448", "title": "Harris Garden", "text": "Harris Garden\n\nThe Harris Garden is a botanical garden of the University of Reading, situated about from the centre of the English town of Reading. It was established in 1972 and expanded into its current form in 1988. It is named after Professor Tom Harris, a distinguished palaeobotanist and keen gardener. Friends of the Harris Garden is an organisation set up with the aim of supporting the Garden.\n\nThe garden is situated on the Whiteknights Park campus of the university, but is separate from the rest of the parkland campus. It is accessed from the rest of the campus by an entrance behind the Harborne and Philip Lyle Buildings of the School of Biological Sciences.\n\nThe garden is about in size. Within this area it encompasses various borders, several ponds and a stream, a formal garden, a heather garden, a wildflower meadow, coppiced woodland, and a walled garden. Adjoining the gardens to the north are the university's experimental grounds and several ranges of glasshouses.\n\nThe garden is a hotspot for butterflies and also features primulas, pansies and palm trees, as well as being home to a national collection of digitalis. Special collections include Amaryllidaceae, Apiaceae, Asclepiadoideae, Asteraceae, Crassulaceae, Droseraceae, Fabaceae, Fagaceae, Iridaceae, Geraniaceae, Lamiaceae, Lentibulariaceae, Liliaceae, Palmae, Pinaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Nepenthaceae, and Sarraceniaceae.\n\nThe garden is in a location that was originally the home paddock of \"The Wilderness\", a former Victorian house built within the landscape garden created between 1798 and 1819 by George, Marquis of Blandford, later the 5th Duke of Marlborough.\n\nA botanic garden was established by the University in 1972 when the Department of Botany moved from the University's London Road site in central Reading to the new Whiteknights campus. In 1987, the garden was redesigned by Richard Bisgrove of the Centre for Horticulture and Landscape in Biological Sciences. The following year, redevelopment of the Botanic Garden was started.\n\nResponsibility for maintenance of the Harris Garden was transferred from the School of Biological Sciences to the Facilities Management Directorate's Grounds Team in October 2010. The demonstration garden, which was formerly situated in the centre of the site and used for undergraduate teaching, was at the same time replaced by an extension of the existing wildflower meadow.\n\nThe garden was originally mostly used for teaching and research by the University's School of Biological Sciences, and the school will continue to use the garden for some teaching and practical work, but most academic activity will now be focussed on the walled garden. Since 2010 the Garden has undergone significant development work and is now, with the exception of the walled garden, open to all with recreation and conservation being its primary function.\n\nThe garden also holds occasional open days, in which the gardens are open to the public from 2pm until 5.30pm, raising funds for various causes. In 2017, the garden is open at least once each month from April until September, generally on the second Sunday of the month. On these open days the walled garden and the adjoining experimental grounds, which are not normally publicly accessible, are sometimes also opened to visitors.\n\nThe garden was the subject of an exhibition, entitled \"An artist's year in the Harris Garden\" and held at the Museum of English Rural Life in 2013, which was the result of artist Jenny Halstead's residency in the garden. The exhibition comprised paintings and sketchbook studies take the visitor through the seasons, moods and development of the Garden over the duration of a year from October 2011. A book, with the same title and published by Two Rivers Press, was a further product of the residency.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108459", "title": "Healthy Forests Initiative", "text": "Healthy Forests Initiative\n\nThe Healthy Forests Initiative (or HFI), officially the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (P.L. 108-148), is a law proposed by President George W. Bush. Its stated intent is to reduce the threat of destructive wildfires. The law seeks to accomplish this by allowing timber harvests on protected National Forest's land. The law streamlined the permitting process for timber harvests in National Forests by adding new categorical exclusions to the National Forest Service's list of categorical exclusions from the environmental impact assessment process.\n\nSupporters of the law contend that this will reduce wildfire risk by thinning overstocked stands, clearing away vegetation and trees to create shaded fuel breaks, providing funding and guidance to reduce or eliminate hazardous fuels in National Forests, improving forest fire fighting, and researching new methods to halt destructive insects. To proponents, much of the basis for the law revolves around the overcrowding of forests due to the suppression of low intensity fires. The resulting buildup of ground fuels and trees is thought to have increased the size and severity of wildfires in the United States.\n\nDetractors of the law contend that the bill opens previously protected forest areas to logging, often unnecessarily or under false pretense. Disagreement exists concerning the role of private logging companies in thinning stands and clearing fire-breaks. The HFI also requires that communities within the \"wildland urban interface\" create \"community wildfire protection plans.\" Community wildfire protection plans designate areas adjacent to communities that should be thinned so that crown fires will not directly burn into communities.\n\nThe Bush administration claims broad support for HFI, stating on the official website: \"The Administration and a bipartisan majority in Congress supported the legislation and are joined by a variety of environmental conservation groups.\" This statement ignores the opposition to HFI by conservation groups such as the Sierra Club, the Natural Resources Defense Council, The Wilderness Society, and the John Muir Project. Supporters include the Society of American Foresters, local fire protection agencies, and a number of hunting and fishing advocacy groups.\n\nIn March 2006, it was reported in the news section of the ACS journal \"Environmental Science & Technology\" that timber interests created a front group called Project Protect to help pass the Healthy Forests legislation.\n\nProponents of HFI believe that high intensity fires in the Western United States have increased in intensity and size in recent years. This is largely a result of fire suppression, which has created a buildup in fuels and ladder fuels, as well as climate change. Supporters believe this act may be able to simplify the NEPA process for projects which are meant to reduce the susceptibility of National forests to forest fires; reducing the risk of conflagrations that endanger human lives, destroy valuable forests, and can reduce the quality of habitat for late seral wildlife species.\n\nThe act is specific, that projects under the act should focus on small tree removal, and maximize retention of large trees. Furthermore, supporters of the act point to the fact that projects under the act must, before going through NEPA, be approved by a collaborative group, which should include all interested and affected parties (including adjacent land owners, special use permit holders in the area, and environmental groups). The intent of NEPA is to allow the public to have input on projects, influence the topics of analysis for projects, and develop alternatives for projects. Collaborative groups may allow for more input and influence on projects from the public than the normal NEPA process, despite the fact that projects under the act go through an expedited NEPA process.\n\nThe cost of fighting major wildfires caused by years of neglect have become entirely too expensive for USFS budgetary expenses. American Insurance companies have raised the issue of structural destruction caused by super forest fires is exceeding 2 billion dollars a year. From a historical standpoint looking to the Sierra Nevada Mountains prior to the inception of the Forest Service the forests were burned every year by the ranchers who ran livestock in these regions. Consequently the amount of fuel left on the forest floor was minor, resulting in low intensity fires. The fires were typically lit during the first storms of the winter and crept along the forest floor. Low branches and fallen trees were consumed in the low intensity larger logs tended to burn beneath the snow during the winter.\n\nPositive advantages of this practical method of forest management was that the ash left behind fertilized the forest trees and plants and bark beetles which are ravishing so much of the Western Forests were killed before boring into trees. Pinecones were also liberated by the heat to release their seeds into the soil. In the spring natural grasses provided extensive grazing opportunities for livestock and wildlife inhabiting the forest regions and also provided critical anti-erosion during heavy rains. To return the forest to such pristine grandness will require extensive planning to remove the more dense fuel loads and careful prescribed burns to liquidate remaining pockets of heavy fuels left on the forest floors by 70 years of neglect.\n\nOpponents of the nicknamed \"No Tree Left Behind\" Act point out that logging companies will be allowed to unnecessarily cut large diameter trees under a false pretense, while neglecting the greater issue of ladder fuels (such as brush and small trees) and possibly leaving debris that would add to extremely volatile ground fuels. Furthermore, forest fires occur naturally and are critical to the long-term survival of many forests, since many trees will only grow once they detect that a fire has occurred since this gives them access to sunlight. Some opponents also criticize the blanket prescription of thinnings to forests where low intensity fires did not historically play a pivotal role .\n\nFurthermore, some saplings only grow after forest fires have cleared away older and dead trees; if humans intervene by preventing natural forest fires from occurring for too long, the forest will eventually die and grow back very slowly.\n\nIn 2004, the Sierra Club and Sierra Forest Legacy (formerly named Sierra Nevada Forest Protection Campaign) brought a lawsuit challenging one aspect of HFI. The National Environmental Policy Act requires preparation of an environmental impact statement (EIS) for agency actions. Under HFI, the Forest Service had promulgated a \"categorical exclusion\" that eliminated the EIS requirement for timber sales up to and prescribed burns up to . On December 5, 2007, in \"Sierra Club v. Bosworth\", the Ninth Circuit held that the Forest Service's promulgation of the categorical exclusion \"was arbitrary and capricious\".\n"}
{"id": "2108464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108464", "title": "Epizod", "text": "Epizod\n\nEpizod (Bulgarian:Епизод) is a Bulgarian heavy metal band formed in 1983 in Sofia. The first songs of the band were inspired by the French poet François Villon. Epizod are famous in Bulgaria for their concerts which include theatre, an Orthodox church choir, and an ensemble for Bulgarian folk songs and dances.\n\nSince 1983 different musicians from the 'Emil Shekerdzhiyski' culture club in Sofia had played different music styles under the name 'Epizod. At that time the drummer was Panayot Kerelezov. When Rosen Doychinov (keyboards) and Miroslav Galabov (guitar) joined him and began to write their first original songs on lyrics by François Villon with the help of Simeon Hristov (bass guitar) who joined later the actual rock and metal band had its direction. They only needed a lead singer and so in 1989 Dimitar Argirov (then a student in the Medical University, Sofia) was found. It was going to be their very first album \"Pray!\". Later during a concert it was announced the replacing of P. Kerelezov with new drummer Stoyan Petrov who played the second part of it. In October 1990, the British BBC filmed Epizod's concert at the National Palace of Culture in Sofia. After the change of the political regime in Bulgaria most of the band members emigrated in Western countries (Netherlands, Canada, Italy). Later M. Galabov returned to Bulgaria and together with S. Hristov (who remained in homeland at that time) found new musicians to fill the band: Vasil Kalpachki (vocals), Emil Tasev (drums) and Dragomir Draganov (guitar), who recorded the album together.\n\nTwo years later, in 1992 Vasil Kalpachki left them and the group recorded their second album \"Dead Among the Dead\" (with lyrics by Charles Baudelaire and François Villon) sung by guitarist M. Galabov. Later in 1993 they disbanded for about 3 years.\n\nIn 1996 S. Hristov and Dr. Draganov started work on songs from the album \"The Time Has Come\" with lyrics by the French classical poets François Villon and Pierre de Ronsard. They found their new singer Emil Chendov and drummer St. Petrov returned as well. The band toured with various keyboardists. Later E. Chendov briefly left the band and in 1999 they released a new album 'Respect' with singer Nikolay Urumov instead, leaving the previous album unreleased.\n\nIn 2000 Emil Chendov returned and the band started to work on \"The Bulgarian God\", an album which is considered to be one of the best in the history of Bulgarian rock. The texts used in the songs are lyrics by the revolutionary poet Hristo Botev and Ivan Vazov. After the release of the first singles of the album The National Television included the song \"Haiduks\" based on a poem by Hristo Botev in the 2001 New Year's Eve Show. During that time Stoyan Petrov was replaced by the new drummer Hristo Gyosharkov. The album was officially released in 2002 and was one of the most sold albums of the year in Bulgaria. Essential for the success of the album were the voices of the guest folklore singers- father Andon, Daniela Velichkova, Kristina Yaneva as well as St.John Kukuzelis Choir.\n\nIn 2003 Epizod released the previously recorded album \"The Time Has Come\". In 2004 they released \"Male songs\". By the end of 2004 Epizod released the so-called rock opera (actually a conceptual album) \"Saint Patriarch Evtimiy\". The promotional concert in Veliko Turnovo was held exactly where the events described in the album took place – at Tsarevets Castle, the reconstructed palace of the medieval Bulgarian tsars. The concert was filmed and later released on a DVD. The band appeared clad in armour, the show included a folklore dance ensemble, a church choir, Bulgarian folklore songs and the performance of the virtuoso Rosen Genkov who plays the ancient string instrument gadulka (Bulgarian: гъдулка) - a kind of Bulgarian rebec. In 2006 Epizod released the album \"Our Roots\" with the image of the Madara Rider on the front cover. Since 1 January 2007 Bulgaria is a member of the European Union. On 3 January 2007 BBC announced Epizod as 'the most qualitative Bulgarian rock band'.\nIn 2008 the band released the album \"The Old Warrior\".\n\nIn April 2009 Epizod parted from the guitarist Dragomir Draganov and the bassist Simeon Hristov found a replacement in the person of Vasil Belezhkov (student in the National Music Academy 'Prof. Pancho Vladigerov' - Sofia) just a few days before their next concert. At first Vasil joins only as a guest musician just to cover the concerts till the end of Juny 2009 but in the meantime he accepts the offer of the band to become a member and to take part in the next album of Epizod. In December 2009 the keyboardist Delyan Georgiev (who is professional cameraman and participates in a film by Luc Besson) left the band and Vasil Belezhkov continued to work as keyboardist as well as guitarist. In the summer of 2010 the drummer Stoyan Petrov returned for a while in Epizod. In that time (July 2010 - January 2011) the band had concerts with various guest drummers - Stoyan Petrov, Hristo Gyosharkov, Ivan Tsonkov and Georgi Varamezov.\n\nIn October 2010 the album \"The people of Dulo\" was released. This album coincides with the 20th anniversary of Epizod and here take part some of the most famous rock singers in Bulgaria - Zvezdomir Keremidchiev from Ahat and Yordan Karadzhov from Signal as well as the young singer Filip Brashkov. There is also a guest composer - the music and lyrics of the first and the last songs are by Alexander Alexiev-Hoffart who is an artist and the cover of the album is a fragment from a historical picture painted by him. The picture represents Khan Kubrat - founder and ruler of Old Great Bulgaria from the Dulo clan sitting in his throne with his sons around him.\n\nIn January 2011 the young drummer Deyan Aleksandrov joined Epizod as a member of the band. In October 2012 the band finished the records on their album \"My prayer\" (the title song is based on the eponymous poem by Hristo Botev). It incorporates the typical for the group elements like Bulgarian folklore music, orthodox church singing and heavy metal. In this album take apart the folklore singers Iliya Lukov and Daniela Velichkova, the violinist Nikola Vaklinov and the kaval player Kiril Belezhkov (the younger brother of the guitarist Vasil), as well as Zvezdi, the aforementioned singer of rock band 'Ahat'. In this album Vasil Belezhkov manifests also as a composer/songwriter (the song \"Father's advice\" on the eponymous poem by Stefan Stambolov) and tambourist (the song from Pirin region \"Elenko mome\" sung by Iliya Lukov). Besides poems by Botev and Stambolov the album includes songs based on poems by the Russian poets Alexander Pushkin and Vladimir Vysotsky and one of the songs is with lyrics by the bassist Simeon Hristov. In the same year the first novel by Simeon Hristov - 'The treasure of Shishman' was released.\n\nIn 2016 Deyan Aleksanrov left the band and they toured with different guest musicians. In 2017 was released the album of Viktoriya Milanova (who was 11-years old Bulgarian girl at that time) and Epizod called \"I am Bulgarian\". In the autumn of 2017 the drummer Hristo Gyosharkov rejoined Epizod and the band made a trip to Ukraine together with him and the family of Viktoriya. They participated in a concert held at the place where the Pereshchepina Treasure of the Bulgarian ruler Kubrat was found.\n\nIn the spring of 2018 three of the band members together with three guest performers presented in front of public the drama called Rock Theater 'Asparuh - the Battle of Ongal' written by Simeon Hristov. In this project the same performers play the theatrical roles, sing the songs and play the instruments. The text was based on the very new researches about the Bulgarian medieval history, religion, state organisation and relations with the Eastern Roman Empire. Later in the same year the band recorded their new songs with the singer Simeon Angelov who performs the role of Asparuh in the aforementioned rock theater and who is deputy director of a school in Sofia as well as a singer in an orthodox church choir. The new songs together with two of the already recorded songs - 'The laws of Krum', and 'The city of Asen' become part of the album \"The great rulers\" which is dedicated entirely to the Bulgarian medieval rulers (Tervel, Omurtag, Simeon, Samuil, Kaloyan, etc.)\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108466", "title": "Thomas Brzustowski", "text": "Thomas Brzustowski\n\nThomas Anthony Brzustowski, (; born April 4, 1937) is a Canadian engineer, academic, and civil servant.\n\nBorn in Warsaw, he came to Canada with his family when he was 11. He received a B.A.Sc. degree in engineering physics from the University of Toronto in 1958. He received an M.A. degree from Princeton University in 1960 and a Ph.D. degree in aeronautical engineering in 1963.\n\nHe then joined the University of Waterloo teaching in the department of mechanical engineering. From 1967 to 1970 he was the chairman of the department and from 1975 to 1987 he was Vice-President, Academic. From 1987 to 1991 he was the Ontario deputy minister of Colleges and Universities. He was president of the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council from 1995 to 2005. He was a member of the board of the Institute for Quantum Computing. From 2010 to 2014, he was Chair of the Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC) for the Council of Canadian Academies.\n\nBrzustowski has received honorary degrees from the University of Guelph (1994), Ryerson Polytechnic University (1996), University of Waterloo (1997), McMaster University (2000), University of Alberta (2000), University of Ottawa (2000), École Polytechnique de Montréal (2001), Concordia University (2003), Royal Military College of Canada (2003), Brock University (2005), the University of Victoria (2005), York University (2005), University of Northern British Columbia (2006), Carleton University (2007), and Lakehead University (2011).\n\nIn 1997 Brzustowski was elected to Fellow of the Canadian Academy of Engineering. In 2001, he was made a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada. In 2002, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. He is an honorary member of the Royal Military College of Canada, student # S143.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108480", "title": "Richard B. Boone", "text": "Richard B. Boone\n\nRichard Bently Boone (February 24, 1930 – February 8, 1999) was an American jazz trombonist and scat singer.\n\nBorn in Little Rock, Arkansas, Boone sang in a Baptist church choir as a boy, then began playing the trombone at the age of twelve. He served with the U.S. Army from 1948 to 1953 where he played trombone in a military band. Out of the Army, he returned to Little Rock to study music at Philander Smith College. In 1956 Boone moved to Los Angeles where he played in venues with Dolo Coker, Sonny Criss, and Dexter Gordon. Boone worked in the backup band for Della Reese between 1962 and 1966 then became a member of the Count Basie band. A few years later he left Basie and moved to Copenhagen, Denmark, performing with the Ernie Wilkins Big Band.\n\n\nWith Count Basie\nWith Dexter Gordon\n\nWith Thad Jones\n\nWith Ernie Wilkins\n\n"}
{"id": "2108494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108494", "title": "Make Yourself At Home", "text": "Make Yourself At Home\n\nMake Yourself At Home may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2108500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108500", "title": "WOTV", "text": "WOTV\n\nWOTV, virtual channel 41 (UHF digital channel 17), is an ABC-affiliated television station licensed to Battle Creek, Michigan, United States and serving the Grand Rapids–Kalamazoo–Battle Creek television market. The station is owned by Nexstar Media Group, as part of a duopoly with Grand Rapids-licensed NBC affiliate WOOD-TV (channel 8); it is also sister to Grand Rapids-licensed Class A MyNetworkTV affiliate WXSP-CD (channel 15). The three stations share studios on College Avenue Southeast in the Heritage Hill section of Grand Rapids; WOTV's transmitter is located on South Norris Road in Orangeville Township. There is no separate website for WOTV; instead, it is integrated with that of sister station WOOD-TV. \n\nWOTV brands itself as WOTV 4 based on its channel 4 position on most area cable systems, though it is on channel 41 on Dish Network, along with AT&T's DirecTV and U-verse.\n\nThe Grand Rapids–Kalamazoo–Battle Creek market is one of four American television markets that are served by two separate affiliates of the same network. Locally, ABC programming is also seen on WZZM (channel 13, owned by Tegna Inc.), which is based out of Grand Rapids. Although WZZM clears all network programming and operates a full news department, its digital signal cannot reach Battle Creek, Kalamazoo and other areas within the southern portions of the market. This is because its transmitter is located northwest of Grand Rapids in Grant, farther north than the area's other network stations. While WOTV once focused primarily on the southern portion of the market in an area between the respective signals of WZZM and South Bend, Indiana's WBND-LD, in recent years it has billed itself as a full-market ABC affiliate, including Grand Rapids in its coverage area despite WZZM serving as the ABC station of record for that city. ABC is the only remaining network with such dual-affiliate arrangements, which exist in Grand Rapids–Kalamazoo–Battle Creek, Boston–Manchester, New Hampshire (WCVB-TV and WMUR-TV, the only such arrangement involving stations owned by the same company), Tampa–St. Petersburg–Sarasota, Florida (WFTS-TV and WWSB), and Lincoln–Hastings–Kearney, Nebraska (KLKN and KHGI-TV).\n\nThe station signed on the air on July 24, 1971 as WUHQ-TV (standing for \"UHF HeadQuarters\"). It was owned by Channel 41, Inc. a group of 19 investors from Battle Creek and Kalamazoo. WUHQ signed on because the southern portion of the market did not receive an adequate signal from WZZM. Originally licensed on VHF channel 9, that station swapped channels with WWTV in Cadillac and moved to channel 13 just before signing on in 1962. As a result, its transmitter is farther north than the other West Michigan stations, a measure originally meant to protect WTVG in Toledo, Ohio. Before WUHQ signed on, viewers in Kalamazoo and Battle Creek watched ABC programming via either WSJV (now a Heroes & Icons affiliate) in Elkhart, Indiana, WXYZ-TV in Detroit, or during the summer months when tropospheric propagation across Lake Michigan was more susceptible to occur over West Michigan, WLS-TV in Chicago and the ABC affiliate in Milwaukee (WITI and later WISN-TV).\n\nIn its early days, the station could not get ABC to provide a direct network feed. This forced channel 41 to switch to and from WZZM's signal during the times when ABC network programming was being shown. This practice, however, was less than satisfactory as WZZM often preempted network shows in favor of locally originated or other programming (such as Billy Graham crusades). In cases where WUHQ had advance notice of such changes, the station was able to procure filmed copies of the preempted network programming for broadcast. However, WZZM sometimes preempted a program with no advance notice such as for breaking local news or severe weather coverage. When this happened, WUHQ simulcast WSJV, usually with less than satisfactory results. At times, atmospheric conditions were not suitable enough to simulcast WSJV, forcing WUHQ to substitute a film or other non-network programming.\n\nWZZM's owners, Northstar Television, planned to buy WUHQ in 1991 and turn it into a satellite. This would have created a strong combined signal with about 40% overlap. Northstar received Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approval to do this, but the deal fell through when the company was unable to come up with the funds necessary to close the transaction. Instead, WUHQ's owner entered into a local marketing agreement (LMA) with LIN Broadcasting, owner of WOTV in Grand Rapids. The deal closed on November 11, 1991. Shortly after, on June 12, 1992, channel 8 regained its heritage WOOD-TV calls and moved the WOTV calls to channel 41. The previous WUHQ call letters are currently used on a low-powered Daystar affiliate in Grand Rapids.\n\nIn 1996, WOTV boosted its transmitter power to five million watts, making it the most powerful television station in West Michigan. It now had at least Grade B coverage throughout the entire market. AT&T bought WOOD-TV and the LMA with WOTV in 1994, when LIN spun off its television division as LIN TV. However, LIN continued to operate both stations. LIN TV reacquired WOOD-TV from AT&T in 1999 and bought WOTV outright in 2002. By December 2006, all operations of the station were consolidated into WOOD-TV's facilities in Grand Rapids. Reporter Gerry Barnaby, who joined WOTV in 1993, left the station at end of the year. WOTV's studios on West Dickman Road (M-96) in Battle Creek were donated to a city entity, Battle Creek Unlimited, and were later demolished in February, 2014. The equipment went to the Calhoun County Vocational Educational Center. \nBoth WOTV and WZZM have had a unique history of having one ABC affiliate preempt network programming during Labor Day weekend for the \"Jerry Lewis MDA Telethon\" while another aired the preempted ABC programming. In recent years, WOTV has aired the \"MDA Telethon\" while WZZM has aired ABC programming preempted by the telethon. It was the other way around in previous years, however. Bill Steffen was also the only current news personality to appear on the telethon on both stations having been employed by WZZM and WOOD-TV. Starting in 2013, however, both WZZM and WOTV aired the \"MDA Show of Strength\" at the same time as the program switched from a syndication format to a network telecast on ABC. \n\nOn May 18, 2007, LIN TV announced that it was exploring strategic alternatives that could have resulted in the sale of the company.\n\nSoon after rebranding as \"WOTV 4\" in 2007, the station adopted a modified version of the numeric \"41\" it had used since the 1990s, highlighting the \"4\" in positive space and displaying the \"1\" immediately adjacent in negative space (similar to the hidden numeral \"11\" in the former Big Ten Conference logo). In March 2012, WOTV launched a new logo, website, and daytime lineup under the brand \"WOTV 4 Women\". With the launch, the station began to shift its focus towards the female demographic—its website was redesigned to feature more lifestyle-oriented content, and its daytime lineup began featuring more female and lifestyle-oriented programming (such as \"Dr. Oz\", \"Swift Justice with Jackie Glass\", \"The Nate Berkus Show\", \"Better\", and \"The Wendy Williams Show\"); the format change was one of the first such instances in which a broadcast television station attempted to target a more specific demographic (in this case, based on gender). By the 2015–16 season, the branding had changed slightly to \"My ABC, WOTV 4\", though due more by the trends of syndication, as fewer talk shows exist in the market. On early weekend mornings, the station simulcasts WOOD-DT3, which is a feed of WOOD-TV's weather radar (known as the \"Storm Team 8 Live Doppler Network\") with audio from NOAA Weather Radio station KIG63. The radar feed is carried full-time on WOTV's fourth subchannel.\n\nOn March 21, 2014, it was announced that Media General would acquire LIN. The deal closed on December 19, making WOTV, along with WOOD and WXSP, siblings to CBS affiliate WLNS-TV and ABC affiliate WLAJ-TV in Lansing.\n\nOn January 27, 2016, Media General announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to be acquired by Nexstar Broadcasting Group. The combined company is known as \"Nexstar Media Group\" and owns 171 stations (including WOOD and WOTV), serving an estimated 39% of households. The sale was completed on January 17, 2017.\n\nOn December 3, 2018, Nexstar announced it would acquire the assets of Tribune Media (owners of Fox affiliate WXMI) for $6.4 billion in cash and debt. Nexstar is precluded from acquiring WXMI directly or indirectly, as FCC regulations prohibit common ownership of more than two stations in the same media market, or two or more of the four highest-rated stations in the market. As such, Nexstar was required to sell either WXMI, WOOD and/or WOTV to separate, unrelated companies to address the ownership conflict. The WXSP network of stations would be retained in any situation, as its Class A low-power license is free of regulatory requirements.\n\nOn March 20, 2019, it was announced Nexstar would retain the WOOD-TV/WOTV duopoly and WXSP station network as-is, selling WXMI to Cincinnati-based E. W. Scripps Company, as part of the company's sale of nineteen Nexstar- and Tribune-operated stations to Scripps and Tegna Inc. in separate deals worth $1.32 billion.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWOTV previously carried a simulcast of sister station WXSP-CD on digital subchannel 41.2; in late-October 2010 with LIN TV beginning to launch digital translators of WOOD-TV in the southwestern portion of the market and near-universal availability of WXSP on cable and satellite, WOTV discontinued its simulcast of WXSP on its second subchannel. It was replaced with 24-hour music video network TheCoolTV. WXSP-CD was also carried by WOOD-DT2 until July 1, 2013.\n\nOn July 15, 2013, carriage of TheCoolTV ended as LIN ended its agreement to carry the network, and the subchannel was replaced with the same Doppler radar loop seen on WOOD-DT3. Once Grit debuted on WOTV, the radar loop was moved to its fourth subchannel.\n\nWOTV shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 41, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 20, using PSIP to display WOTV's virtual channel as 41 on digital television receivers.\n\nSyndicated programs airing on WOTV include \"The Wendy Williams Show\", \"The Goldbergs\", \"Black-ish\", \"Access Hollywood\" and \"Family Feud\".\n\nChannel 41 opened a news department soon after signing on. However, the station had no luck whatsoever competing against WOOD-TV and WWMT (channel 3), since its viewer base was limited to the southern portion of the market. Even with Kalamazoo (the market's second largest city), there simply were not enough viewers in that area of the market for a separate news department to be viable. The station also had to contend with South Bend's WSJV, which decently covered most of this portion of the market over the air.\n\nWUHQ shut down its separate news department in 1990. When WOOD-TV took over the station's operations a year later, it began simulcasting some of its newscasts on WOTV, as well as airing specially produced newscasts covering Battle Creek and Kalamazoo. Since then, WOTV has essentially functioned as WOOD-TV's Kalamazoo/Battle Creek bureau.\n\nOn February 9, 1991, news anchor Diane Newton King was murdered in her home near Marshall. Her husband, Bradford King, was convicted of first-degree murder and is currently serving a life sentence. The case received national attention in 2004 when it was aired on Court TV's \"Forensic Files\". The case was also profiled on A&E's \"City Confidential\" in an episode titled \"Bad News in Battle Creek\". In 1992, WOTV brought back a full news department for a second time branded as \"41 News\". However, like its predecessor, it barely registered as a blip in the ratings. Even the resources of WOOD-TV, West Michigan's leading news station for the better part of the last three decades, were not enough to help the cause.\n\nLIN finally decided to shut down WOTV's news operation for good in August 2003. Since then, the station has simulcast some of WOOD-TV's newscasts, but this time without any separate opens or segments. Currently, only the 6 a.m. hour of WOOD-TV's weekday morning newscast, the nightly 6 p.m. newscast (the first half-hour only on Sundays) and the nightly 11 p.m. newscast can be seen on WOTV. There are also brief prime time weather updates that air on weeknights featuring WOOD-TV chief meteorologist Bill Steffen. In instances of severe weather, WOTV simulcasts coverage from WOOD-TV.\n\nAfter the news department was shut down, the on-air slogan \"My ABC is WOTV 4\" was adopted to promote ABC programming paired with WOOD-TV's market-leading newscasts. The \"Phrase That Pays\" is a regularly scheduled contest built around the slogan. On October 5, 2009, WOOD-TV became the second station in Southwestern Michigan to begin offering local newscasts in widescreen enhanced definition. Although not truly high definition, the broadcast quality matches the ratio of HD television screens. The simulcasts on WOTV were included in the upgrade. Then on October 22, 2011, WOOD-TV became the third television station in southwestern Michigan to broadcast local newscasts in high definition. The simulcasts on WOTV were included in the upgrade as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108508", "title": "1940s in games", "text": "1940s in games\n\n"}
{"id": "2108515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108515", "title": "Axel, Netherlands", "text": "Axel, Netherlands\n\nAxel is a town in the southwest Netherlands. It is located in the municipality of Terneuzen, Zeeland, about 31 km southeast of Vlissingen.\n\nIn 2001, the town of Axel had 7,421 inhabitants. The built-up area of the town is , and contains 3,408 residences.\nThe statistical area \"Axel\", which also can include the surrounding countryside, has a population of around 8,190.\n\nAxel received city rights in 1213.\n\nA railroad, connecting Terneuzen and Sint-Niklaas, once ran through the city. \n\nUntil 2003, Axel was a separate municipality.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108516", "title": "James Rumsey", "text": "James Rumsey\n\nJames Rumsey (1743–1792) was an American mechanical engineer chiefly known for exhibiting a boat propelled by machinery in 1787 on the Potomac River at Shepherdstown in present-day West Virginia before a crowd of local notables, including Horatio Gates. A pump driven by steam power ejected a stream of water from the stern of the boat and thereby propelled the boat forward.\n\nLittle is known about Rumsey until he was living in Bath, Virginia, (now Berkeley Springs, West Virginia) in 1782. He likely had moved to the area with his family some years before the American Revolution, from Cecil County, Maryland, where he had helped to run the family water mill at Bohemia Manor. His cousin was Benjamin Rumsey, a notable Maryland jurist and statesman, who also grew up at Bohemia Manor. In Bath, he built houses, became a partner in a mercantile business, and helped to run a boarding house and tavern called the \"Sign of the Liberty Pole and Flag.\"\n\nIn September 1784, when George Washington was staying at Rumsey's inn, he contracted with Rumsey to build a house and stable on property he owned at Bath. During this visit, Rumsey showed Washington a working model of a mechanical boat which he had designed. It had a bow-mounted paddlewheel that worked poles to pull the boat upstream. Washington had been making plans for making the Potomac river navigable since before the Revolution, and a company was soon to be formed for the purpose. Rumsey's pole-boat, which promised to be able to ascend the river's chutes and swift currents, must have seemed a godsend to Washington, who wrote a certificate of commendation for Rumsey and likely let him know of the river project. Armed with the certificate, Rumsey obtained a patent from the Virginia legislature for \"the use of mechanical boats of his model\" and also gained an investor James Mcmechen.\n\nIn July 1785, he was recommended by Washington and appointed the superintendent of the newly formed Patowmack Company to the oversee the clearing of rocks at what is now Harper's Ferry. Rumsey would thus not only be able to build a boat to ascend the river, but alter the river to enable his boat. For a year, Rumsey oversaw work on the Potomac River site, while his assistant and brother-in-law Joseph Barnes did much of the building of the boat around Shepherdstown.\n\nRumsey had quickly concluded that the pole-boat design was too limited and decided to incorporate steam propulsion into his design. While making his boat much more useful, it made it far more complex and expensive to build. It soon became obvious that the Patowmack Company had a much greater task ahead than any of its members had foreseen. It was hindered by the lack of an overall supervising engineer; overseers were having to improvise as best they could. The work required much manual labor and difficult blasting, and Rumsey found himself directing a large and restive gang of about a hundred workmen, including leased slaves and bondsmen, encamped in a remote area, without adequate supplies.\n\nAfter a year Rumsey said he would resign if not given an increase in pay. His resignation was accepted and his assistant, Richardson Stewart, was given his job. Other aspects of the matter are open to debate; Stewart may or may not have worked against Rumsey to gain his job; Rumsey thought he had, the Company (and Washington) thought Rumsey's allegations unfounded. Still, according to Company minutes, Stewart was fired soon afterward, for \"sundry charges of a serious nature\".\n\nWork on a hull had begun in 1785 in Bath by Joseph Barnes. The boat was brought that fall to Shepherdstown. Valve castings, cylinders, and other pieces which had been made in Baltimore and Frederick were installed that December, and the boat was taken downriver to Shenandoah Falls for a test. However, bad weather postponed testing until the following spring. When Rumsey finally tested the boat, it proved very unsatisfactory. The pole-boat mechanism caused the boat to yaw in the current, which disabled the paddlewheel and stopped the boat. In the steam pump, the engine consumed too much steam; the boiler was inadequate.\n\nAt some point in 1786, work on the pole-boat mechanism was abandoned. For a better boiler, he tried a coil of forged iron pipe, which proved to be both much more efficient and much smaller and lighter. With a functioning steam engine, another problem arose. The single-cylinder pump would draw several gallons of water from beneath the boat and send it down a copper pipe to the stern. Because gallons of water were being drawn into the pump at the same time as water was still flowing from it to the stern, the pump was working against itself; several strong strokes and it bound up. This was resolved by replacing the copper pipe with a square wooden trunk with flapper valves in the bottom to allow water in from the river, to relieve the negative pressure at the pump.\n\nOn December 3, 1787, the boat finally made a very successful public demonstration on the Potomac at Shepherdstown.\n\nThe demonstration took place twenty years before Robert Fulton constructed and demonstrated the \"Clermont\". The idea of jet propulsion was not Rumsey's alone. Daniel Bernoulli (1700–1782) originated the idea of propelling watercraft in that way. In the summer of 1785, while Rumsey and his assistant Joseph Barnes were in the process of assembling his boat, Benjamin Franklin, on board a ship from France, wrote of propelling a boat by water jet. This coincidence has sometimes led people to believe Rumsey got the idea from Franklin. Indeed, if Franklin had wanted to make such a claim it likely would have been accepted, but he did not, and became one of Rumsey's supporters.\n\nJohn Fitch had demonstrated his steamboat in Philadelphia the previous August. Although there was yet no overall patent system in the confederated states, he had patents from some states that gave him exclusive rights to his and any other steamboat. Rumsey was very protective of his designs and, though he was even more plagued by money problems, he sent the boat machinery to Philadelphia in March 1788. He quickly followed, armed with affidavits from those who had seen his steamboat or been involved with its creation. There was a pamphlet war with John Fitch. Some Philadelphia businessmen attempted to make the men set up a joint effort; but after years of travails and poverty, Fitch was not in a mood to compromise. When he said he would apply for a patent in England for Rumsey's water-tube boiler, Rumsey and others formed the Rumseian Society. They decided he should go to England to secure patents for his inventions and seek further financial backing.\n\nAfter moving to England in 1788, Rumsey was able to take out four patents before his death there in 1792. While some of these relate to steamboats (like his water-tube boiler design, which made the steam engine much smaller and more efficient) most are concerned with hydrostatics and water power. His 1791 patent has all the pumps, motors, and hydraulic cylinders of fluid power engineering. By September 1792 he had a true water turbine, almost 40 years before it next appeared in France.\n\nHe spent four years in England. On December 20, 1792, on the eve of the demonstration of his new steamboat the Columbia Maid, he had just finished delivering a lecture to the Society of Mechanic Arts, when he was suddenly stricken with a severe pain in his head, and died the next morning. At the time his death was attributed to overstraining his brain. He was buried in London at Saint Margaret's Church.\n\nIn 1906 a second Rumseyan Society was formed in Shepherdstown. Through its efforts a monument to Rumsey was constructed in a park overlooking the Potomac.\n\nAnother Rumseian Society was formed in Shepherdstown in the 1980s to construct a replica of the successful Rumsey steamboat and celebrate the boat's bicentennial in 1987. The boat was constructed in the machine and blacksmith shop in the back of O'Hurley's General Store. The replica is housed in a small building behind the Entler Hotel. For a time, there was an annual regatta in Shepherdstown in early October in honor of Rumsey.\n\nThe bridge across the Potomac to Maryland is named after Rumsey, as is the James Rumsey Technical Institute in Hedgesville, West Virginia, and Rumsey Road in Columbia, Maryland.\n\nElla May Turner (corrected spelling)\n\n"}
{"id": "2108519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108519", "title": "Kevin Sullivan (runner)", "text": "Kevin Sullivan (runner)\n\nKevin Sullivan (born March 20, 1974) is the men's head cross country and distance coach at University of Michigan and former middle distance runner from Canada. He was born in Brantford, Ontario.\n\nSullivan studied civil engineering at the University of Michigan where he had 14 All-American honours and won 4 NCAA titles (one relay and 3 individual). Sulivan's father, Richard, is a machinist. He has two brothers, Darren and Colin. He played hockey and soccer while growing up in Brantford. He was married to former Canadian steeplechase record holder Karen Harvey in 1998. They divorced in November 2014.\n\nSullivan competed in 1000 metre, 1500 metre, and mile events and represented Canada. His personal best times are 3:31.71 for the 1500 (set in June 2000) and 3:50.36 for the mile. He is the former Canadian record-holder for the indoor 3000 m, 7:40.17 (set February 9, 2007). His best Olympic showing is a fifth-place finish at Sydney. In 2005, he left his longtime Michigan coach, Ron Warhurst, to train under the coaching of Julie Henner. In the 2008 Summer Olympics, Sullivan reached the semi-finals of the 1500 metre but failed to qualify for the final. Sullivan was also a torchbearer for the 2010 Winter Olympics, carrying the torch into Brantford.\n\nSullivan was an assistant coach at Michigan in the early 2000s. He was a volunteer assistant coach at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and a coach at Florida State University.\n\nSullivan has been named one of the greatest Canadian distance runners of all time, concerning his placings in international competition, having competed at 3 Olympic Games, 22 World Championships (outdoors, indoors, and cross country), and still holding 4 Canadian track and field records including 3 outdoor and 1 indoor.\n\nSullivan is the men's distance & cross country head coach at University of Michigan. In his first year, Coach Sullivan lead the Michigan Wolverines to the NCAA Division 1 Cross Country Championships. Kevin took this position in 2014, after years of successful coaching at Florida State University where he assisted his wife coaching the women's distance team. Kevin also coached at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108535", "title": "Sugar Plum Fairies", "text": "Sugar Plum Fairies\n\nSugar Plum Fairies were a folk and pop band from Fyresdal, Vest-Telemark, Norway, formed in 2000, who released one studio album. The band plays pop music influenced by the folk music tradition of their native Telemark, using folk instruments like the Norwegian hardanger fiddle and accordion alongside guitar and piano, as well as brass instruments such as the trumpet and euphonium. The band perform songs in their native dialect.\n\nOn 2 June 2009, the band announced on their Facebook page that they were on indefinite hiatus.\n\n\nSugar Plum Fairies' album, \"Fivrelddans\" () was a spin-off from a concert production entitled \"Fivrelddans & filosofi - Haakon Lie i ord og tonar\" composed and performed for the Olsokdagane i Fyresdal festival in 2004. The album was co-produced by Torbjørn Kittelsen and Jørgen Eide Kittelsen in Largostudio, Rjukan, Norway in April and May 2005, and released independently through the band's own label Spun Sugar Music on 10 December 2005.\n\nThe record received several good reviews, and some airplay in Norway and abroad. The tracks \"Andre Dugurdskvildi\", \"Fridtjof Nansen\" and \"Strålefall\" were minor Norwegian radio hits.\n\nThe album contains music put to the poems of writer Haakon Lie, who is also from the band's hometown of Fyresdal. There were guest appearances on the album by Sarah Corbisier (viola) and Magne Berge (Hardanger fiddle). The song \"Storlivisa\" and the poem \"Hjuringvise\" featured in the original stage production, but were not recorded by the band. \"Fløytarvisa hans Aslak smed\" was not a part of the original stage production.\n\nUnless otherwise stated, all words are written by Haakon Lie with music by Øyvind Berge.\n\nIn 2006 Paul Bernard, Norwegian rapper, hip-hop artist & producer, sampled the band's song \"Jolekveld\", and the resulting collaboration \"Depend\" was released online under the name Paul Bernard feat. Sugar Plum Fairies, as part of Bernard's album \"Unfinished bizniz - a collection of dreams and grey stones\", with a live version included on the Paul Bernard and The Fat Fucks DVD \"Live at Lost Weekend\". In 2007, the band appeared with Sigmund Groven and Tore Reppe as invited guests of Norsk Munnspillforum (The Norwegian Harmonica Association) at a concert in Moland kyrkje in Fyresdal.\nIn 2008 the band was included on the October Party Records compilation album \"Norwegian Wood Music For China vol.5\".\n\nØyvind Berge contributed vocals and songwriting on the track \"Ser Du Stjernene?\" on Paul Bernard's album \"Unfinished Bizniz - a collection of dreams and grey stones\", and also sang on \"Fat Fucks' Theme\", part of the incidental music for Paul Bernard and The Fat Fucks' DVD \"Live at Lost Weekend\".\n\nIn 2012 he released his debut solo album under the name \"Sir Øyvind Berge & His Imaginary Orchestra\", on Norwegian label Valiant Sounds.\n\nMerethe Jørgensdottir Reinskås is a member of the Oslofjord Brass ensemble and appears on their album \"OfBit\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108537", "title": "41 Arietis", "text": "41 Arietis\n\n41 Arietis (abbreviated 41 Ari) is a triple star system in the northern constellation of Aries. With an apparent visual magnitude of 3.63, this system is readily visible to the naked eye. It has an annual parallax shift of 19.69 mas, which indicates it is at a distance of from the Sun.\n\nThe system consists of a binary pair, designated 41 Arietis A, together with a third companion star, 41 Arietis D. (41 Arietis B and C form optical pairs with A, but are not physically related.) The components of A are themselves designated 41 Arietis Aa (formally named Bharani ) and Ab.\n\n\"41 Arietis\" is the system's Flamsteed designation. It does not possess a Greek-letter Bayer designation, since this system was once part of the now-obsolete constellation Musca Borealis, but is sometimes designated \"c Arietis\". The designations of the two constituents as \"41 Arietis A\" and \"D\", and those of \"A's\" components - \"41 Arietis Aa\" and \"Ab\" - derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).\n\nIn Hindu astronomy, Bharani (भरणी \"bharaṇī\", ) is the second nakshatra, or lunar mansion corresponding to 35, 39 and 41 Arietis. In 2016, the IAU organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name \"Bharani\" for the component 41 Arietis Aa on 30 June 2017 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Stomach (asterism)\", refers to an asterism consisting of 41, 35 and 39 Arietis. Consequently, the Chinese name for 41 Arietis itself is (, .)\n\nIn Avestan, the star was known as Upa-paoiri, and it was associated with one of the yazatas.\n\nThe primary component is a B-type main sequence star with a stellar classification of B8 Vn. The suffix 'n' indicates 'nebulous' absorption lines in the star's spectrum caused by the Doppler effect of rapid rotation. It has a projected rotational velocity of 175 km/s. This is creating an equatorial bulge that is 12% larger than the star's polar radius. It is a candidate member of the AB Doradus moving group and has an orbiting companion at an angular separation of 0.3 arcseconds.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108540", "title": "Thomas West, 8th Baron De La Warr", "text": "Thomas West, 8th Baron De La Warr\n\nThomas West, 8th Baron De La Warr and 5th Baron West, KB, KG (c.1457 – 11 October 1525) was an English courtier and military commander during the reigns of Henry VII and Henry VIII.\n\nThomas Richard West was the eldest son of Richard West, 7th Baron De La Warr (28 October 1430 – 10 March 1476), and Katherine Hungerford (d. 12 May 1493), daughter of Robert Hungerford, 2nd Baron Hungerford of Heytesbury, Wiltshire, by Margaret Botreaux, daughter of William de Botreaux, 3rd Baron Botreaux, of Boscastle, Cornwall.\n\nWest served in an expedition to France in 1475. He was said to be aged 19 or more at his father's death on 10 March 1476, and was granted special livery of his lands on 1 September of that year.\n\nHe was knighted by Henry VII on 18 January 1478, and on 4 March 1486 was granted lands in Sussex after the attainder of the Duke of Norfolk. In 1487 he was granted an annuity of £20 by Peter Courtenay, Bishop of Winchester. In 1489 he was made a Knight of the Bath at the creation of Henry VII's eldest son, Arthur Tudor, as Prince of Wales.\n\nHe was one of the 'chief commanders' of an English force sent to Flanders in 1491 to assist the Emperor Maximilian against the French, and in 1496 was the 'chief commander' of forces raised to suppress the Cornish Rebellion, commanding a retinue at the Battle of Deptford Bridge. He was installed as a Knight of the Garter on 11 May 1510. He participated in the sieges of Therouanne and Tournai in 1513, and was made a knight banneret after the French defeat at the Battle of the Spurs on 18 August 1513. He attended Mary Tudor at her marriage to Louis XII of France in 1514, and attended Henry VIII at the Field of the Cloth of Gold in 1520. In 1524 he was appointed High Sheriff of Surrey and Sussex.\nWest died 11 October 1525, and was buried at St. Mary's Church, Broadwater, Sussex. He left a will dated 8 October 1524, proved 12 February 1526. The will of his widow, Eleanor (née Copley), dated 10 May 1536, was proved on 14 November of that year. She was buried with him at Broadwater.\n\nWest married firstly Eleanor Percy (b. 1455), daughter of Henry Percy, 3rd Earl of Northumberland, and Eleanor Poynings, daughter and heiress of Sir Richard Poynings (d. 10 June 1429), by whom he had no issue.\n\nHe married secondly, before 1482, Elizabeth Mortimer (d. 29 June 1502), the daughter of Sir Hugh Mortimer of Martley and Kyre Ward, Worcestershire, by Eleanor Cornwall, daughter of Sir Edmund Cornwall, by whom he had five sons and six daughters:\n\n\nHe married thirdly Eleanor Copley (c.1476-1536), daughter of Roger Copley, esquire, of London and Roughey in Horsham, Sussex, by Anne Hoo, second daughter and co-heiress of Thomas Hoo, Baron Hoo and Hastings, by whom he had three sons and four daughters:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108547", "title": "Chi Cygni", "text": "Chi Cygni\n\nChi Cygni (Latinised from χ Cygni) is a Mira variable star in the constellation Cygnus, and also an S-type star. It is around 500 light years away.\n\nχ Cygni is an asymptotic giant branch star, a very cool and luminous red giant nearing the end of its life. It was discovered to be a variable star in 1686 and its apparent visual magnitude varies from as bright as 3.3 to as faint as 14.2.\n\nFlamsteed recorded that his star 17 Cygni was Bayer's χ Cygni. It is assumed that χ was not visible at that time, but there is no further information and the discrepancy was not noticed until 1816. Bayer had recorded χ Cygni as a 4th magnitude star, presumably near maximum brightness.\n\nThe astronomer Gottfried Kirch discovered the variability of χ Cygni in 1686. While researching that area of the sky for observations of Nova Vulpeculae, he noted that the star marked as χ in Bayer's Uranometria atlas was missing. He continued to monitor the area and on October 19, 1686 he recorded it at 5th magnitude.\n\nKirch regarded χ Cyg as a regular variable with a period of 404.5 days, but it was quickly noted that both the period and amplitude varied considerably from cycle to cycle. Thomas Dick, LL.D, writes:\n\nThe star was then observed only sporadically until the 19th century. A continuous sequence of observations were made by Argelander and Schmidt from 1845 to 1884. These were the first series of observations showing the minima of the light variations. Since the start of the 20th century, it has been monitored closely by multiple observers.\n\nThe earliest spectra of χ Cygni could only be taken near maximum light. They show weak absorption lines, with bright emission lines superimposed, and it was typically classified as around M6e at maximum brightness. After the S class was introduced, χ Cygni was considered intermediate between class M and class S, for example either S5e or M6-M8e. Later more sensitive spectra near minimum gave spectral types as late as M10 or S10,1e. Under the revised classification system for S stars, designed to better reflect the gradation between M stars and carbon stars, χ Cygni at normal maximum was classified as S6 Zr2 Ti6 or S6+/1e, considered equivalent to MS6+. Spectral types at different phases of variation ranged from S6/1e to S9/1-e although no measurements were taken at minimum brightness.\n\nSiO masers were detected from χ Cygni in 1975. HO emission from χ Cygni's atmosphere was detected in 2010, but HO masers have not been found.\n\nχ Cygni shows one of the largest variations in apparent magnitude of any pulsating variable star. The observed extremes are 3.3 and 14.2 respectively, a variation of more than 10,000-fold in brightness. The mean maximum brightness is about magnitude 4.8, and the mean minimum is around magnitude 13.4. The shape of the light curve is fairly consistent from cycle to cycle, with the rise being steeper than the fall. There is a \"bump\" approximately halfway from minimum to maximum, where the brightness increase temporarily slows before rising very quickly to maximum. The faster rise and bump are common features in the light curves of Mira variables with periods longer than 300 days. The rise time is 41–45% of the fall time.\n\nBoth the maximum and minimum magnitude varies considerably from cycle to cycle: maxima may be brighter than magnitude 4.0 or fainter than 6.0, and minima fainter than magnitude 14.0 or brighter than magnitude 11.0. The maximum of 2015 may have been the faintest ever observed, barely reaching magnitude 6.5, while less than 10 years earlier the 2006 maximum was the brightest for over a century at magnitude 3.8. Some of the supposed brightest minima may simply be due to incomplete observational coverage. Longterm BAA and AAVSO data show minima consistently between about magnitude 13 and 14 throughout the 20th century.\n\nThe period from maximum to maximum or minimum to minimum is not consistent, and can vary by up to 40 days either side of the mean. The mean period depends on the period of observations used, but is generally taken to be 408.7 days. There is some evidence that the mean period has increased by about 4 days over the last three centuries. Period variations on shorter timescales appear to be random rather than cyclical, although it is possible that the secular period increase is not linear. The period change is only significant when calculated using the maxima and not when using the minima which are only available for more recent cycles.\n\nThe spectral type is observed to vary during the brightness changes, from S6 to S10. The earliest spectral types are found at maximum brightness. After maximum, the strength of the emission lines starts to increase. Towards minimum, emission becomes very strong and many unusual forbidden and molecular lines appear.\n\nThe diameter of χ Cygni can be measured directly using interferometry. Observations show that the diameter varies from around 19 mas to 26 mas. The size changes are almost in phase with the brightness and spectral type. The smallest size is observed at phase 0.94, which is 30 days before the maximum.\n\nThe annual parallax of χ Cygni has been calculated at 5.53 mas in the new reduction of Hipparcos satellite data, which corresponds to a distance of 590 light years. The parallax is only about a quarter of the angular diameter of the star. The statistical margin of error is about 20%.\n\nThe distance can also be derived by comparing changes in the angular diameter with the measured radial velocity in the atmosphere. This gives a parallax of 5.9 mas with a similar accuracy to the direct measurement, corresponding to a distance of 550 light years.\n\nOlder studies generally derived smaller distances such as 345, 370, or 430 lights years. The original parallax calculated from Hipparcos measurements was 9.43 mas, indicating a distance of 346 light years.\n\nComparing the apparent magnitude of χ Cygni with an absolute magnitude calculated from the period-luminosity relationship gives a distance compatible with the latest parallax values.\n\nχ Cygni is much larger and cooler than the sun, so large that it is thousands of times more luminous despite the low temperature. It pulsates, with both the radius and temperature varying over approximately 409 days. The temperature varies from about 2,400 K to about 2,700 K and the radius varies from about to . These pulsations cause the luminosity of the star to vary from about to , but they cause the visual brightness to vary by over 10 magnitudes. The huge visual magnitude range is created by a shift of electromagnetic radiation from the infrared as the temperature increases, and by formation at cool temperatures of molecules that absorb visual light.\n\nThe visual magnitude of the star is closely correlated with the changes in the spectral type and temperature. The radius is almost anti-correlated with the temperature. The minimum radius occurs approximately 30 days before the maximum temperature. The bolometric luminosity variation is primarily driven by the change in the size of the star, with the maximum luminosity occurring about 57 days before the maximum radius and lowest temperature are reached. The luminosity varies over a quarter of a cycle behind the visual brightness, meaning the star is fainter at maximum luminosity than at minimum luminosity.\n\nThe mass of isolated stars is difficult to determine accurately. In the case of χ Cygni, its pulsations offer a way to directly measure the gravitation acceleration of layers in the atmosphere. The mass measured in this way is . Applying an empirical relation for Mira stars to χ Cygni gives a mass of . χ Cygni is losing mass at a rate of nearly each year through a stellar wind at 8.5 km/s.\n\nχ Cygni is usually classified as an S-type star because of the bands of zirconium oxide and titanium oxide in its spectrum. Compared to other S stars, the ZrO bands are weak and bands from VO are visible, so that the spectrum is sometimes described as MS, intermediate between a normal M spectrum and the S type. It also shows spectral lines from s-process elements such as technetium, produced naturally in AGB stars such as Mira variables. S stars are an intermediate phase between M class stars which have atmospheres with more oxygen than carbon, and carbon stars which have more carbon in their atmospheres. The carbon is moved into the atmosphere by third dredge-ups which occur with thermal pulses. S stars have C/O ratios between about 0.95 and 1.05. The C/O ratio in χ Cygni's atmosphere is 0.95, consistent with its status as a borderline S/MS star.\n\nχ Cygni is the first Mira star to have a magnetic field detected. It is believed that the very weak magnetic field normally found in AGB stars is amplified by the shock wave during the pulsations of the star's atmosphere.\n\nχ Cygni is a luminous and variable red giant on the asymptotic giant branch (AGB). This means it has exhausted its core helium, but is not massive enough to start burning heavier elements and is currently fusing hydrogen and helium in concentric shells. Specifically it is on the thermally pulsing portion of the AGB (TP-AGB) which occurs when the helium shell is close to the hydrogen shell and undergoes periodic flashes as it stops fusion for a time and new material accumulates from the hydrogen-burning shell.\n\nAGB stars become more luminous, larger, and cooler as they lose mass and the internal shells move closer to the surface. Mass loss increases as the mass decreases, the luminosity increases, and more fusion products are dredged up to the surface. They \"ascend\" the AGB until the mass loss becomes so extreme that they start to increase in temperature and enter the post-AGB phase, eventually to become a white dwarf.\n\nThe evolution of a Mira variable should cause its period to increase, assuming it stays with the unstable region of pulsations. However, this secular trend is interrupted by the thermal pulses. These thermal pulses occur tens of thousands of years apart, but are theorised to produce rapid period changes over less than a thousand years following the pulse. The period changes detected for χ Cygni are suggestive of the end of that rapid change from a thermal pulse. The period changes between pulses are too slow to be detected with current observations.\n\nThermal pulses on the TP-AGB produce progressively more dramatic changes until the end of the AGB phase. Each pulse causes internal instability which triggers convection from the surface towards the hydrogen shell. When this convection zone becomes deep enough, it moves fusion products from the shell to the surface. This is known as the third dredge-up although there can be several third dredge-ups. The appearance of these fusion products at the surface is responsible for the change of an M star to an S star, and ultimately to a carbon star.\n\nThe initial mass and age of an AGB star are difficult to derive accurately. Intermediate mass stars lose relatively little mass, less than 10%, up to the start of the AGB, but have strong mass loss on the AGB, especially the TP-AGB. Stars with very different initial masses can show very similar properties on the AGB. A star initially with will take around 400 million years to reach the AGB, then around 6 million years to reach the TP-AGB, and spend one million years in the TP-AGB phase. It will lose around before the TP-AGB and on the TP-AGB. The carbon-oxygen core of will go on to become a white dwarf and the remaining envelope will be shed to possibly become a planetary nebula.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108550", "title": "C Spire", "text": "C Spire\n\nC Spire, formerly known as Cellular South, Inc., is a privately owned technology company headquartered in Ridgeland, Mississippi. The company consists of three business divisions – C Spire Wireless, C Spire Home, and C Spire Business. \n\nC Spire Wireless is the seventh-largest wireless carrier in the United States and the largest privately held mobile communications company. C Spire operates more than 1,200 cell sites with 9,000 route miles of buried fiber optic cable. C Spire owns and has access to low, mid and high-band wireless spectrum in its primary service areas. The unit offers 4G LTE mobile services and is investing for 5G, the next generation of cellular service. C Spire has customers in Mississippi, the Memphis Metropolitan Area, the Florida Panhandle, and parts of Alabama including Mobile. C Spire sells plans and devices for prepaid and postpaid customers and was the first wireless carrier to offer free incoming calls to those customers. \n\nC Spire Home, which launched one of the nation's first Gigabit speed Fiber to the Home efforts in 2013, provides 1,000 Megabits per second internet access, live streaming TV and digital home phone services to thousands of consumers in more than 20 Mississippi markets.\n\nC Spire is owned by the holding company Telapex, Inc.,<ref name=\"http://www.telapex.com/\"></ref> which also owns Telepak Networks, Inc., and several smaller Mississippi telecoms.\n\nSince 1999, C Spire has invested more than US$700 million in its wireless network, including constructing 1,403 cell sites, a high-speed wireless broadband network and a permanent microwave ring for redundancy across the Gulf Coast region.\n\nIn 2006 the firm opened its first sales center outside of its native network footprint. In 2009, the company purchased Alabama-based Corr Wireless, which expanded its coverage in Alabama and moved it into Georgia for the first time (in 2013 Corr Wireless was subsequently sold to AT&T). \n\nThe company's wireless division announced on September 22, 2011 that it planned on rebranding from Cellular South to C Spire Wireless to be put into effect on September 26 of that year.\n\nIn 2018, the company purchased Teklinks, based in Birmingham, Alabama, to expand their footprint in the commercial and enterprise business, as well as their geographical footprint in the southeast.\n\nIn Oct. 2019, C Spire announced the launch of C Spire Health, a mobile app to provide health care for people in Mississippi, especially those in rural and under served areas, with minor ailments.\n\nC Spire announced a partnership with Alabama Power on Dec. 5, 2019, to bring Gigabit speed (1000 Mbit/s) internet services to the Birmingham area, as well as Shelby County and other parts of Alabama, in 2020. C Spire is a member of the Alabama Rural Broadband Coalition (ARBC), which is focused on rural broadband expansion. As part of the ARBC, C Spire also will be helping expand rural broadband access to Jasper, Alabama, in 2020.\n\nCellular South, Inc. began its wireless service on the Mississippi Gulf Coast on February 4, 1988, using AMPS technology. Former football quarterback Archie Manning made the company's inaugural call from Gulfport, Mississippi to then U.S. Representative Trent Lott in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn 2011, C Spire became the fourth wireless carrier in the U.S., behind AT&T, Sprint and Verizon and ahead of T-Mobile, to be able to sell the iPhone.\n\nIn 2013, C Spire created Vu Digital, LLC as a wholly owned subsidiary. The name \"Vu\" is pronounced \"view\" and is inspired by the phrase \"your view of things\". Vu is used as a web content aggregator with heuristics, allowing it to improve its aggregation selections based on user preferences. Its initial product was \"a cloud-based digital profiling and analytics system\" that provided \"web personalization\". Digital announced Video-To-Data analysis and metadata tagging in May 2015. Vu Video-to-Data (V2D) translates video images and audio to text, affording video producers the ability to tag their content with metadata making it more searchable.\n"}
{"id": "2108551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108551", "title": "Hoyt L. Sherman", "text": "Hoyt L. Sherman\n\nHoyt L. Sherman (1903–1981) was an American artist and professor. He is widely credited with having a serious influence on the work of Roy Lichtenstein, who was a student of his during the forties.\n\nHoyt Leon Sherman was born in Lafayette, Alabama.\n\nAs a professor in Fine Arts at Ohio State University, he employed the \"flash room\", a darkened room where images would be briefly flashed onto the screen. The students were then to draw what they had seen. This method of grasping an image by copying it would later be cited by Lichtenstein as having had an influence on his work. Hoyt Sherman was also known for his work with optics in the field of visual art, developing a theory similar to Hans Hofmann's \"Push and Pull.\" \n\nHoyt Sherman had other notable students including e.l. sauselen and Larry Shineman, who both also went on to teach at Ohio State University in the Fine Arts, and Deborah Beetham-Ford, who taught art in high school, at Ohio State, and at Otterbein College, where she was Acting Director of the Art Department during Earl Hassenpflug's absence, as well as employing Sherman's techniques in her works. Earl Hassenpflug, director of the Otterbein Art Department, and professors JoAnne Stichwey and Al Germanson, who continued teaching Sherman's \"Flashlab\" until his retirement, were also students of Hoyt Sherman.\n\nHis research and methods were also utilized during the Second World War by the United States Navy and Army Air Corps as a means of teaching pilots and gunners to quickly identify aircraft as friendly or enemy, while his \"camouflage room\" taught them to identify targets for bombing, despite the enemy's attempts to hide them, and to develop techniques to better conceal potential U.S. targets.\n\nIn 1963 he received the Alumni Award for Distinguished Teaching from Ohio State University. A building in his name, The Hoyt L. Sherman Studio Art Center, was endowed by Roy Lichtenstein in the 1990s. His widow, Rachel Sherman, painter and pianist, died on July 20, 2008.\n"}
{"id": "2108565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108565", "title": "Beta Ophiuchi", "text": "Beta Ophiuchi\n\nBeta Ophiuchi (β Ophiuchi, abbreviated Beta Oph, β Oph), also named Cebalrai , is a star in the equatorial constellation of Ophiuchus. The apparent visual magnitude of this star is 2.7, which is readily visible to the naked eye even from urban skies. The distance to this star can be estimated using parallax measurements, yielding a value of from the Sun.\n\n\"β Ophiuchi\" (Latinised to \"Beta Ophiuchi\") is the star's Bayer designation.\n\nIt bore the traditional names \"Cebalrai\", \"Celbalrai\", \"Cheleb\" and \"Kelb Alrai\" (or sometimes just \"Alrai\"), all derived from the Arabic كلب الراعي \"kalb al-rā‘ī\" \"the shepherd's dog\".. In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Cebalrai\" for this star on 21 August 2016 and it is now so entered in the IAU Catalog of Star Names.\n\nUSS Cheleb (AK-138) was a United States Navy Crater class cargo ship named after the star.\n\nThis is a giant star with a stellar classification of K2 III. Although it is only 13% greater in mass than the Sun, it has reached a stage in its evolution where the atmosphere has expanded to about 12 times the Sun's radius and is radiating 63 times the luminosity of the Sun. Its outer envelope is relatively cool with an effective temperature of 4,467 K, giving it the orange hue typical of K-type stars. Like some other K-type giants, β Ophiuchi has been found to vary very slightly (0.02 magnitudes) in brightness.\n\nCebalrai is a member of the thin disk population. It is following a low eccentricity orbit through the Milky Way galaxy that carries it between a distance of from the Galactic Center and up to above or below the galactic plane.\n\nRadial velocity variations with a period of 142 days hint about the possible presence of a planetary companion orbiting Beta Ophiuchi. Thus far, no planetary object has been confirmed; while periodic radial pulsations caused by intrinsic stellar variability could explain the observed variations.\n"}
{"id": "2108572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108572", "title": "21 Tauri", "text": "21 Tauri\n\n21 Tauri, formally known as Asterope , is a component of the Asterope double star in the Pleiades open cluster. \"21 Tauri\" is the stars' Flamsteed designation. This star is potentially faintly visible to the naked eye with an apparent visual magnitude of 5.76 in ideal conditions, although anybody viewing the object is likely to instead see the pair as a single elongated form of magnitude 5.6. The distance to 21 Tauri can be estimated from its annual parallax shift of , yielding a range of around 431 light years. It is moving further from the Earth with a heliocentric radial velocity of +6 km/s.\n\n\"Asterope\" was one of the Pleiades sisters in Greek mythology. In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name \"Asterope\" for \"21 Tauri\" on 21 August 2016 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\n21 Tauri is a blue-white hued B-type main sequence star with a stellar classification of B8 V. It is a single star with around three times the mass of the Sun and is 100 million years old. The star is radiating 100 times the Sun's luminosity from its photosphere at an effective temperature of 11,041 K. It displays an infrared excess, but this is due to reflection nebula rather than a circumstellar disk.\n"}
{"id": "2108573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108573", "title": "Estelle Liebling", "text": "Estelle Liebling\n\nEstelle Liebling (April 21, 1880 – 1970) was a vocal coach who taught singing using the three-register method. She stressed the \"unmusicalness\" of the seventh octave, as well as the avoidance of the head register in men. One of Liebling's most famous pupils was Beverly Sills, a coloratura soprano. She also instructed Meryl Streep as a young girl as a singer.\n\nEstelle Liebling had been a pupil of Mathilde Marchesi and carried forth the Manuel Garcia Jr. (Manuel Patricio Rodríguez García) tradition.\n\nLiebling had been a favored soprano of John Philip Sousa earlier in her career.\n"}
{"id": "2108577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108577", "title": "Sterope (star)", "text": "Sterope (star)\n\nThe Sterope or Asterope system is a double star in the zodiac constellation of Taurus. Its components have the Flamsteed designations 21 Tauri and 22 Tauri, and are sometimes known as Sterope I and Sterope II, respectively. \n\nThe International Astronomical Union applies the name \"Asterope\" specifically to 21 Tauri. \nThe two stars are thus\n\n\nThe two stars are separated by 0.047° on the sky, which is equal to 2.82 arc-minutes and thus closer than the usual naked-eye resolution limit of 4 arc-min, giving an elongated appearance of the two together. Both are members of the Pleiades open star cluster (M45) and approximately 440 light-years from the Sun.\n\nAsterope was one of the Pleiades sisters in Greek mythology.\n\nIn 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name \"Asterope\" for \"21 Tauri\" on 21 August 2016 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nUSS Sterope (AK-96) was a United States Navy Crater class cargo ship named after the star.\n"}
{"id": "2108580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108580", "title": "Edwin Maxwell (actor)", "text": "Edwin Maxwell (actor)\n\nEdwin Maxwell (9 February 1886 – 13 August 1948) was an Irish character actor on in Hollywood movies of the 1930s and 1940s, frequently cast as shady businessmen and shysters, though often ones with a pompous or dignified bearing. Prior to that, he was an actor on the Broadway stage and a director of plays.\n\nMaxwell was a native of Dublin.\n\nIn the late 1920s, Maxwell directed and acted in plays with the New York Theater Guild Repertory Company.\n\nFrom 1939 to 1942, Maxwell served as the dialogue director for the films of epic director Cecil B. DeMille. Maxwell appeared in four Academy Award-winning Best Pictures: \"All Quiet on the Western Front\" (1930), \"Grand Hotel\" (1932), \"The Great Ziegfeld\" (1936) and \"You Can't Take It with You\" (1938).\n\n"}
{"id": "2108584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108584", "title": "No-contest clause", "text": "No-contest clause\n\nA no-contest clause, also called an \"in terrorem\" clause, is a clause in a legal document, such as a contract or a will, that is designed to threaten someone, usually with litigation or criminal prosecution, into acting, refraining from action, or ceasing to act. The phrase is typically used to refer to a clause in a will that threatens to disinherit a beneficiary of the will if that beneficiary challenges the terms of the will in court. Many states in the United States hold a no-contest clause in a will to be unenforceable, so long as the person challenging the will has probable cause to do so.\n\nThe Uniform Probate Code (UPC) §§ 2-517 and 3‑905 allow for no contest clauses so long as the person challenging the will doesn't have probable cause to do so. The full wording is:\nThe UPC has been adopted in several smaller states, including Alaska, Idaho, Montana, and New Mexico, but also by Florida, one of the larger states in population.\n\nSome states allow for \"living probate\" and \"ante mortem\" probate, which are statutory provisions which authorize testators to institute an adversary proceeding during their life to declare the validity of the will, in order to avoid later will contests.\n\nIn California, no-contest clauses are of limited effect, and will divest a party that unsuccessfully contests a will containing such a clause only if the court determines that the party brought the action without probable cause. Probate Code §§ 21310–21315. These statutes, which comprise California's statutory scheme governing the enforceability of no-contest clauses, became effective January 1, 2010. As of that date, the predecessor statutes are repealed.\n\nIn Florida no-contest clauses in wills are specifically unenforceable, irrespective of probable cause, pursuant to statute. See Fla. Stat. 732.517 (2009) which states:\n\nMassachusetts General Laws allow for penalty-clause-for-contest language in wills. See M.G.L. Ch. 190B, Art. II, Sec. 2-517.\nNevada law specifically directs the court to enforce no-contest clauses. These statutes recognize that a beneficiary may, without penalty, seek enforcement of the will or trust, seek a judicial ruling as to the meaning of the will or trust. The statutes also recognize an exception where legal action challenging the validity of the document is \"instituted in good faith and based on probable cause that would have led a reasonable person, properly informed and advised, to conclude that there was a substantial likelihood that the trust or other trust-related instrument was invalid.\"\n\nNew York has rejected the \"probable cause\" defense to enforcement of such clauses. Such clauses are given full effect upon challenge. Some exceptions apply, e.g. election against the will by a minor, contest on ground of forgery or revocation by later Will.\n\nNew York's estates, powers and trusts law specifically states:\nTexas allows for a no-contest clause to be challenged for just cause and provided the action to challenge was made in good faith.\n\nOregon enforces no-contest clauses against losing parties even when there was probable cause to contest the will.\n"}
{"id": "2108588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108588", "title": "Zina D. H. Young", "text": "Zina D. H. Young\n\nZina Diantha Huntington Jacobs Smith Young (January 31, 1821 – August 28, 1901) was an American social activist and religious leader who served as the third general president of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) from 1888 until her death. She practiced polyandry as the wife of Joseph Smith, and later Brigham Young, each of whom she married while she was still married to her first husband, Henry Jacobs.\n\nShe is among the most well documented healers in LDS Church history (male or female), at one point performing hundreds of washing, anointing, and sealing healing rituals every year.\n\nZina Huntington was born in Watertown, New York, the eighth child of William Huntington and Zina Baker. Her father's family was descended from Puritan Simon Huntington, who died at sea in 1633 on the voyage to America. Her father was a veteran of the War of 1812, her grandfather a soldier in the Revolutionary War, and his brother, Samuel Huntington, a signer of the Declaration of Independence. She was taught household skills, such as spinning, soap making, and weaving, and received a basic education. She developed musical talent by learning to play the cello.\n\nReligion had always been important to her parents, and as a youth during the Great Awakening, Zina grew up in a home where matters of spiritual importance were consistently included in the family dialogue. In 1835, when Zina was fourteen, her family was contacted by Hyrum Smith and David Whitmer, missionaries of the Church of the Latter Day Saints. With the exception of her oldest brother, the entire family joined the church. Zina was baptized by Smith on August 1, 1835.\n\nAfter receiving advice from Joseph Smith, Sr., Zina's father sold their property and relocated to the church's headquarters in Kirtland, Ohio. Zina was a member of the Kirtland Temple Choir. Nineteen months later, the family moved again to Far West, Missouri. They arrived in Far West at a time of violence between Missouri residents and the newly arrived Mormons. After Missouri Governor Lilburn Boggs issued the Extermination Order, Zina's father helped coordinate the evacuation of church members to Illinois. In 1839, when Zina was only eighteen years old, there was a cholera epidemic in Nauvoo, Illinois; Zina and her mother became ill. Her mother died, but Zina recovered after receiving care in the home of Joseph and Emma Smith.\n\nYoung was noted among the new converts of the church for her somewhat remarkable spiritual gifts. Not long after the family arrived in Kirtland she exhibited the gift of tongues and of the interpretation of tongues, gifts she continued to exhibit throughout her life. She also later exhibited the gifts of prophecy and healing. Emmeline B. Wells later wrote of her, \"in all spiritual labors and manifestations, she was greatly gifted, and no woman in Israel was more inspirational in prayer ... Her whole life was one of untiring devotion to her Heavenly Father.\"\n\nAs General Relief Society President, Young traveled throughout the church performing hundreds of healing blessings every year, and is possibly the LDS Church's most well documented healer, male or female. Though healing rituals are strictly a function of the male priesthood in the contemporary LDS Church, up through the presidency of Joseph F. Smith female healing blessings were part of the orthodoxy. She would carefully wash, anoint, and seal healing blessings, even in the presence of her husband Brigham Young and other church leaders. She taught and encouraged other women to heal as well, preaching at the 1889 General Relief Society Conference, \"it is the privilege of all Sisters living as they should to administer the ordinances to their Sisters in sickness & the little ones in faith & humility.\"\n\nZina recorded in her autobiography that when she was eighteen she was courted by Henry Bailey Jacobs. During this time, Joseph Smith, also taught her about plural marriage in private conversations; he proposed that she become his spiritual wife on at least three different occasions. Zina declined the proposals out of her respect for Emma Smith and for traditional Christian monogamy, and because such a union would require secrecy. On March 7, 1841, she married Jacobs, believing she had thus avoided future proposals from Smith. Nauvoo mayor John C. Bennett conducted the ceremony. Her journal from the day of the wedding reads: I was Married to Mr. Henry Bailey Jacobs. He had been a missionary preaching the Gospel for some time. His Father Henry Jacobs was one of the first elders in the Church, faithful and true until the last.Zina became pregnant shortly after her marriage. However, she continued to feel concern that she had rejected God by rejecting Joseph, whom she considered a prophet and God's spokesperson. Later she recorded, \"I received a testimony for myself from the Lord of this work, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God before I ever saw him, while I resided in the state of New York, given in answer to prayer. I knew him in his lifetime, and know him to have been a great true man and a servant of God.\" Smith wrote to her in October 1841 that he had \"put it off till an angel with a drawn sword stood by me and told me if I did not establish that principle [plurality of wives] upon the earth I would lose my position and my life.\" She and Smith were married on October 27, 1841. Her brother Dimick performed the ceremony. By that time, Joseph was married to five other women, besides his first wife Emma: Fanny Alger, Louisa Beaman, Lucinda Pendleton Morgan, Nancy Marinda Johnson Hyde, and Clarissa Reed Hancock.\n\nZina was about seven months pregnant with a Jacobs's child (Zebulon William Jacobs), as confirmed by DNA evidence, when she married Smith. It is not clear when Jacobs was made aware of the wedding to Smith, however, he believed in Smith's prophetic counsel. Zina and Henry Jacobs continued to live together as man and wife, and Zina's \"connubial relations with Joseph Smith, if any occurred at all, [were] certainly infrequent and irregular.\" She never had any children with Joseph, but she and Jacobs had another son, Henry Chariton Jacobs, on March 22, 1846. Her husband Henry was constantly called on missions (he served at least eight between 1839 and 1845) and was thus often absent from the house. In the face of such absences, Zina did not turn to Joseph but rather sought relief from female kin. Her marriage to Henry, riddled with absences as it was, was the only time in her life that she would have a full-time husband. Though many 19th and early 20th century Mormon biographers painted her marriage to Henry as \"not proving a happy union\" to justify her subsequent marriages to Smith and later to Brigham Young, evidence from her diaries suggests this assertion is unfounded.\n\nAfter Smith's death in 1844, Jacobs stood by while Zina was sealed to Smith in the Nauvoo Temple. Later in life, she called herself Joseph's \"widow.\" Zina was present at the meeting at which Brigham Young was chosen to lead the church, after Young spoke with the voice and appearance of Smith. Because she believed him to be God's chosen leader, she consented when Young, 20 years her senior, claimed he acted as Smith's proxy, proposed they be married for time (as many other members of the Quorum of the Twelve did with Smith's other plural wives). They were married February 2, 1846, and at the same time she was re-sealed to Smith for eternity. At this point, Young and other church leaders considered her civil marriage to Jacobs canceled, superseded by the spiritual marriages, though no formal divorce was ever documented. In October 1861, Brigham would go on to assert, \"There was another way—in which a woman could leave a man—if the woman preferred—another man higher in authority and he is willing to take her. And her husband gives her up—there is no Bill of divorce required in the case it is right in the sight of God.\" In May 1846, Young called Henry Jacobs to serve a mission to England. During Jacobs's absence, Zina began living openly in a marital relationship with Young and continued to do so for the rest of her life. She had one child with Young, Zina Prescinda Young, in 1850.\n\nJacobs struggled with the arrangement, still very much feeling that Zina was his wife, and, in later years wrote to Zina, \"the same affection is there ... But I feel alone ... I do not Blame Eny person ... [M]ay the Lord our Father bless Brother Brigham ... [A]ll is right according to the Law of the Celestial Kingdom of our God Joseph\". Henry would eventually remarry and settle in Utah, though it appears that he and Zina did not keep correspondence or contact.\n\nZina Young joined the Mormon Exodus to the Rocky Mountains, arriving in the Salt Lake Valley in September 1848. In Utah Territory, she would raise her two Jacobs sons, her daughter, and the four children of Brigham Young and Clara Ross with fierce independence and strength. She resisted the loss of her independence as Brigham drew her, physically and socially, into his vast household, and found herself very lonely once there. She relied heavily upon kinship ties to her brothers and sister for the rest of her life.\n\nIn order to understand Zina's decisions regarding plural marriage, it is pivotal to examine her relationship to the practice of polygamy. Though initially she struggled to understand the morality practice, she accepted it, not because she found virtue in the practice itself, but because it came from Joseph Smith, and he was the prophet. Her \"unwavering obedience and unquestioning faith\" ultimately determined her decision to be married to Smith and later to Brigham Young. To her, the decision became a test of the integrity she would show to her faith; she later wrote in her journal, \"could I compromise conscience ... lay aside the sure testimony of the Spirit of God for the Glory of this world?\". This principle of total obedience and submission to male church leaders came to define her faith. In her last conference of the Relief Society in October 1900 in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Zina advised, \"Sisters, never speak a word against the authorities of this church.\"\n\nIn time, however, Zina accepted polygamy as a lifestyle. On one occasion, she proclaimed, \"The principle of plural marriage is honorable. It is a principle of the gods, it is heaven born. God revealed it to us as a saving principle: we have accepted it as such and we know it is of him, for the fruits of it are holy. ... We are proud of the principle because we know its true worth.\" When, in 1890 church president Wilford Woodruff issued the Manifesto that led to the end of the practice of polygamy in the church, she lamented, \"Today the hearts of all were tried but looked to God and submitted,\" relying on the same determined obedience to disavow polygamy that she once needed to accept it.\n\nIn later life, Zina commented that women in polygamous relationships \"expect too much attention from the husband and ... become sullen and morose\". She explained that \"a successful polygamous wife must regard her husband with indifference, and with no other feeling than that of reverence, for love we regard as a false sentiment; a feeling which should have no existence in polygamy.\" She came to rely primarily on relationships with kin and other women in the community for support and friendship.\n\nContributions to public health. In Utah, once her children were raised, Zina became involved in a number of public service activities. She became a school teacher and studied obstetrics under Willard Richards. As a midwife (Zina learned midwifery from her mother in New York) she \"helped deliver the babies of many women, including those of the plural wives of Brigham Young. At their request, she anointed and blessed many of these sisters before their deliveries. Other women in need of physical and emotional comfort also received blessings under her hands.\" In 1872, she helped establish Deseret Hospital in Salt Lake City and served on its board of directors and for twelve years as president. She also organized a nursing school, with courses in obstetrics. In 1876, Zina was appointed president of the Deseret Silk Association, a group which for 30 years attempted to cultivate silk worms and mulberry trees for the local production of cloth.\n\nWomen's suffrage. Zina was active in the temperance and women's suffrage movements, and, in the winter of 1881–82, attended the Women's Conference in Buffalo and a National Woman Suffrage Association convention in New York.\n\nChurch service. When the LDS Church's Relief Society was reorganized church-wide in 1880, Zina was selected as first counselor by president Eliza R. Snow. The new presidency was active in refining the society's organization and functions, and helped develop additional church auxiliaries, including the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association and the Primary Association for children. She was remarkable as Snow's right-hand and compliment; it was later remarked that \"Sister Snow was keenly intellectual, and she led by force of that intelligence. Sister Zina was all love and sympathy, and drew people after her by reason of that tenderness.\" In addition to Snow, Zina counted other prominent women in the Relief Society as her friends, including Bathsheba Smith and Emmeline B. Wells.\n\nAs a leader among women, she was beloved for her nurturing character. Not long after her death, Susa Young Gates remarked, \"Sister Zina was all love and sympathy, and drew people after her by reason of that tenderness.\" She embraced the \"feminine sphere\" of her time, spending her life in Utah serving and influencing other women. Her \"hallmark was intimate care: nursing, midwifery, attendance at the sickbed, radiance in the blessing circle, and powerful spirituality as she spoke in or interpreted tongues.\"\n\nIn 1888, following the death of Snow, Zina succeeded her as the Relief Society's third general president and served until her death in 1901. In 1891, she was a vice president for the Utah National Council for Women. She was also matron of the Salt Lake Temple until her death. Zina died on August 28, 1901, at age 80.\n\nThe legacy of Zina Diantha Huntington Jacobs Smith Young is one of obedience, diligence, and service. She was a member of an elite circle of early Latter Day Saints, sealed to two presidents of the church and a remarkable leader of Mormon women in Utah. She met with the diametric ideals of the tough, independent frontierswoman and the Victorian ideals of \"piety, purity, submissiveness, and domesticity\" and was an example to the early Saints in the valley of a faithful Mormon woman. Above all, her legacy is the strength she found in communities of women where she found \"the Spirit of God is, and when we speak to one another, it is like oil going from vessel to vessel.\"\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2108591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108591", "title": "Encoding (semiotics)", "text": "Encoding (semiotics)\n\nEncoding, in semiotics, is the process of creating a message for transmission by an addresser to an addressee. The complementary processinterpreting a message received from an addresseris called decoding.\n\nThe process of message exchanges, or semiosis, is a key characteristic of human life depending on rule-governed and learned codes that, for the most part, unconsciously guide the communication of meaning between individuals. These interpretive frameworks or linking grids were termed \"myths\" by Roland Barthes (1915–1980) and pervade all aspects of culture from personal conversation to the mass media's output (for code exchange through the mass media, see Americanism).\n\nEarly theorists like Saussure (1857–1913) proposed the theory that when the addresser wishes to transmit a message to an addressee, the intended meaning must be converted into content so that it can be delivered. Roman Jakobson (1896–1982) offered a structuralist theory that the transmission and response would not sustain an efficient discourse unless the parties used the same codes in the appropriate social contexts. But, Barthes shifted the emphasis from the \"semiotics of language\" to the exploration of \"semiotics as language\". Now, as Daniel Chandler states, there is no such thing as an uncoded message: all experience is coded. So when the addresser is planning the particular message, both denotative and connotative meanings will already be attached to the range of signifiers relevant to the message. Within the broad framework of syntactic and semantic codes, the addresser will select signifiers that, in the particular context, will best represent his or her values and purposes. But the medium of communication is not necessarily neutral and the ability of the addressee to accurately decode the message may be affected by a number of factors. So the addresser must attempt to compensate for the known problems when constructing the final version of the message and hope that the preferred meanings will be identified when the message is received. One of the techniques is to structure the message so that certain aspects are given salience (sometimes called \"foregrounding\") and predispose the audience to interpret the whole in the light of the particular. This relates to Gestalt psychology, Max Wertheimer (1880–1943) examined the factors that determine grouping in cognitive processes:\nIf an addresser is writing a speech, rhetorical tropes may be used to emphasise the elements that the audience is to focus upon and potentially perceive as predicating a particular conclusion. If images are to be selected, metonymy may indicate common associational values with the preferred meaning of the text.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108610", "title": "Cooperative Institute for Research in the Atmosphere", "text": "Cooperative Institute for Research in the Atmosphere\n\nThe Cooperative Institute for Research in the Atmosphere (CIRA) is a scientific research institution at Colorado State University (CSU) that operates under a cooperative agreement with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) and the National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service (NESDIS). Atmospheric research at CIRA focuses on augmenting operational meteorology with advanced techniques in satellite observations and retrievals, numerical modeling and computational techniques, and data analysis, visualization, and storage. Along with NOAA, CIRA also partners with the National Science Foundation (NSF), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Park Service (NPS), and the Department of Defense (DoD).\n\nIt is one of 16 NOAA Cooperative Institutes (CIs).\n\nSpecific research themes at CIRA include:\n\nThe CIRA campus is located on the Foothills Campus of Colorado State University, in Fort Collins.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108613", "title": "Tom Harris", "text": "Tom Harris\n\nTom Harris may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108616", "title": "Débora Sulca", "text": "Débora Sulca\n\nDébora Susan Sulca Cravero (born 1986 in Lima, Peru) is a Peruvian model, fashion blogger, and beauty pageant titleholder who won Miss Peru 2005 and represented Peru at the Miss Universe 2005 pageant where she was a Top 10 finalist.\n\nAt the age of 16, she began her career in modeling and moved to Europe to expand her early career. Three years later she returned to Peru to compete for her country's national beauty pageant by representing the department of Cajamarca. Cited as one of the favorites for the title due to her modeling experience overseas and mature oratory at a young age, she won the Miss Peru 2005 crown on the night of April 16th, 2005. She was the second representative of Cajamarca to win the title since María Isabel Frías in 1977. \n\nThe following month, in May, she competed in the Miss Universe 2005 pageant held in Bangkok, Thailand, where she placed among the Top 10 finalists, ranking 6th overall. She became an instant crowd favorite among the thai people during the concentration. Her national costume was inspired in the Lord of Sipan. Sulca's placement was Peru's 16th in the history of the pageant.\n"}
{"id": "2108624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108624", "title": "Porky's Revenge!", "text": "Porky's Revenge!\n\nPorky's Revenge! is a 1985 sex comedy film and the third and final film of the original \"Porky's\" film series. It was directed by James Komack.\n\nDuring the semi-final basketball game, the cheerleaders promise the team an orgy if they win. The boys do so. After the game, they are led to one of the girls' homes, and everyone strips down to their underwear and jumps in a swimming pool. In it, the girls throw their underwear out. The boys do likewise, and swim toward the girls. Soon, but too late, they realize the girls are clothed after all and wind up parading nude before the clothed girls and their parents.\n\nPorky now owns a riverboat with a casino and strip club. According to Brian, he is extorting money from Coach Goodenough because he has a gambling debt. The gang decide to go to the boat to take pictures of the illegal casino to give to the D.A. During this time, Meat runs into Porky's sex-crazed daughter, Blossom, who forces herself on him. The boys' plan fails because Porky catches them in the act and is about to kill them. But when they mention the State Championship game, he realizes that they could help him out by throwing the game so he can bet against them.\n\nLater at school, Meat is unable to dissect a frog in science class. Fearing he could become academically ineligible to play in the championship game, the gang goes to Miss Webster's apartment to get a copy of the final exam. They discover her and Mr. Dobish, the school's guidance counselor, having rather kinky extramarital relations.\n\nA letter is written to Ms. Balbricker arranging a rendezvous at a motel with an old boyfriend of hers, while Pee Wee is enticed to the same room by the promise of a night of passion with a beautiful Swedish exchange student. Tommy tricks Pee Wee into going to another location while he heads to the room. Ms. Balbricker arrives first followed by Tommy, and they are horrified to find themselves unclothed and in bed with each other. To make up for their prank on Ms. Balbricker, the gang contacts her old boyfriend and actually gets them together.\n\nDuring the final game, Meat is benched because Miss Webster intentionally failed him. She discovers the blackmail photos and a note, causing her to change her mind. The second half resulted in a victory for Angel Beach while Porky is outraged. Blossom tells him that Meat is her boyfriend and they \"went all the way,\" infuriating him even more. He then suggests to his two subordinates that Meat and Blossom be married.\n\nDuring the senior prom, Meat is abducted by Porky and his men. The gang goes after them. Just as the wedding is about to start, the power goes out and Meat is liberated by Billy and Brian. They begin their escape in a motorboat, with Porky's boat chasing them closely. The chase ends after they make it through a drawbridge, with Pee Wee then lowering it, resulting in the destruction of Porky's boat.\n\nAt graduation, the guys trick Pee Wee into taking off all his clothes, except the graduation gown. As he's about to get his diploma, Principal Carter steps on the gown, causing it to come off and reveal Pee Wee in his nudity, just as he dreamed at the beginning of the film.\n\n\nThe film had a budget of nearly $8 million, much of which went on building a large gambling boat. The producers used a $20 million Miami Island mansion, Vizcaya, as a key setting.\n\nThe film was the directorial debut of James Komack, who said \"I'm not going to whitewash the bawdiness or clean up the tone of their antics.\" \n\nKomack thought the sequel, \"failed to understand their own formula. \"Porky's\" touched on reality, it presented a cross-section of adolescent sex life during a certain time frame. Bob apparently tried to elevate his big success and use it to portray a message. But the original was not a film about humanity; it was a film, pure and simple, about teen-age sex. The sequel, a whitewash of the original, didn't play.\"\n\nNancy Parsons had lost a considerable amount of weight since the first film. She did the sequel for a percentage of the profits.\n\nThe film received negative reviews from critics, with review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gave it a score of 27% based on reviews from 11 critics. Gene Siskel gave it zero stars out of four, writing that \"the comedy here operates at the stag party level... a 1950 stag party.\" Janet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" called it \"just another brand-name teen-age movie ... Some of it \"is\" funny, but it's also entirely predictable.\" \"Variety\" noted that it \"barely earns its R rating\" and that James Komack's direction \"does little to enliven the proceedings,\" calling the soundtrack \"one of the film's few bright spots.\" Michael Wilmington of the \"Los Angeles Times\" called it \"a sorry excuse for a movie: loud, lewd, witless and crass ... you might be advised to skip the movie and go directly to the sound-track album.\" Leonard Maltin's film guide assigned its lowest possible rating of BOMB and wrote, \"Beware of high-school seniors with post-collegiate hairlines: these guys are starting to look older than the mid-'50s Bowery Boys. This revenge is preferable to Montezuma's—but not by much.\"\n\nThe film was nominated for a Stinkers Bad Movie Award for Worst Picture.\n\nThe film was the smallest grossing one of the series, with $20,518,905, a substantial drop from the first one's box office of $105,500,000.\n\nThe film's soundtrack was released in 1985. Produced and assembled by Dave Edmunds, it features new material from a wide spectrum of well-established rock and roll musicians, including Jeff Beck, George Harrison, Carl Perkins, Willie Nelson and Robert Plant & Phil Collins (under \"The Crawling King Snakes\" moniker), as well as then up-and-comers The Fabulous Thunderbirds.\n\nBesides George Harrison's recording of a previously unreleased Bob Dylan song (\"I Don't Want to Do It\") and Dave Edmunds' \"High School Nights\" and \"Porky's Revenge!\" theme music, it consists of newly recorded versions of classic rock and roll tunes (sometimes by their original author, in the case of Carl Perkins). Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic called it \"far more fun than the accompanying film\" and said, although disliking some of the 1980s production flourishes, \"it's far better to dwell on the fact that a third-rate sequel like \"Porky's Revenge!\" could produce a soundtrack this good, because that is a mystery for the ages.\"\n\n\"High School Nights\" b/w \"Porky's Revenge\" and \"Do You Want to Dance?\" b/w \"I Don't Want to Do It\" were released as singles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108626", "title": "Lambda Velorum", "text": "Lambda Velorum\n\nLambda Velorum (λ Velorum, abbreviated Lambda Vel, λ Vel), officially named Suhail , is a star in the southern constellation of Vela. With a mean apparent visual magnitude of 2.21, this is the third-brightest star in the constellation and one of the brighter stars in the sky. The distance to this star can be measured directly using the parallax technique, yielding an estimated from the Sun.\n\n\"λ Velorum\" (Latinised to \"Lambda Velorum\") is the star's Bayer designation.\n\nIt bore the traditional Arabic name السهيل الوزن \"suhayl al-wazn\" (\"Al Suhail al Wazn\"), but as a modern navigation star this was shortened to \"Suhail\". 'Suhail' (a common Arabic male first name) was traditionally used for at least three other stars: Canopus; Gamma Velorum (al Suhail al Muhlif); and Zeta Puppis (Suhail Hadar). In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Suhail\" for this star on 21 August 2016 and it is now so entered in the IAU Catalog of Star Names (\"Canopus\" had its name approved as is, and Zeta Puppis was given the name \"Naos\").\n\nIn Chinese astronomy, Suhail is called 天記, Pinyin: Tiānjì, meaning \"Judge for Estimating the Age of Animals\", because this star is marking itself and stands alone in the \"Judge for Estimating the Age of Animals\" asterism, Ghost mansion (see : Chinese constellation). 天記 (Tiānjì), westernized into \"Tseen Ke\", but the name \"Tseen Ke\" was designated for Psi Velorum by R. H. Allen works and the meaning is \"Heaven's Record\".\n\nThe outer envelope of λ Velorum has an effective temperature of about 4,000 K, giving it the cool orange hue of a K-type star. It is an Lc-type, slow irregular variable star with its brightness varying between apparent magnitudes +2.14 to +2.30.\n\nλ Velorum is an evolved star that has exhausted the hydrogen in its core region. It has about seven times the mass of the Sun. It is likely to be on or approaching the asymptotic giant branch (AGB), although its properties do not exclude it being a slightly more massive star on the red giant branch (RGB). As an AGB star it has an inert core of carbon and oxygen and is alternately fusing helium and hydrogen in two shells outside the core. The star's outer envelope has expanded to form a deep, convective, hydrogen burning layer that is generating a magnetic field. The surface strength of this field has been measured at . Massive stars use their hydrogen \"fuel\" much faster than do smaller stars and Lambda Velorum is estimated to be only some 32 million years old.\n\nλ Velorum is near the upper end of the mass range for intermediate stars, which end their lives by producing a planetary nebula and a white dwarf remnant. It may be massive enough to produce an electron capture supernova.\n"}
{"id": "2108628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108628", "title": "Katrine Madsen", "text": "Katrine Madsen\n\nKatrine Madsen (born 7 March 1972 in Aarhus, Denmark) is a Danish jazz singer.\n\nMadsen studied at the Royal Danish Academy of Music and has worked in Copenhagen on albums with transplanted American jazz artists Ed Thigpen and Richard Boone.\n\nIn 2002, she founded the Katrine Madsen Sextet and gave their debut concert at the Copenhagen Jazz Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108631", "title": "WMKG-CD", "text": "WMKG-CD\n\nWMKG-CD is a low-powered television station on channel 31, licensed to Muskegon, Michigan. Its studio is located on Airline Road in Norton Shores, Michigan near the junction of I-96 and US 31. Owned by \"WMKG-TV, LLC\", it is affiliated with Classic Shows.\n\nWMKG-CD was founded by Bud Kelley and his family in 1989 as W40AK. It first went on the air on April 1, 1990, originally broadcasting on channel 40. The call letters were changed to WMKG-LP in 1995. It moved to channel 38 in 2004. In September 2006, Comcast cable dropped the station from its analog channel lineup to allocate more bandwidth for video on demand services. Currently, the station is available on digital cable and broadcasting on 49, but displayed channel 38 through PSIP until that system malfunctioned; it currently uses channel 49 for display of its channels.\n\nThe station held LP calls until c. October 2009, when it acquired Class A television service status to become WMKG-CA. Despite the station's low-power status, its location near Lake Michigan assures amplification of their signal across the lake into the Milwaukee market within the Port Washington and Sheboygan areas (Milwaukee itself is served by analog low-power station WTSJ-LP on Channel 38). The station was issued its license for digital operation on October 10, 2014, at which point it changed its call sign to WMKG-CD.\n\nThe station has had several minor network affiliations throughout its history, and currently affiliates with The Family Channel; this is a duplicative affiliation within the Grand Rapids market, as WLLA (Channel 64) also carries that network over their 64.1 subchannel.\n\nAccording to a MLive.com article dated December 25, 2016, \"Channel 49.1 -- channel 397 on cable -- broadcasts family-oriented shows and Muskegon programs including churches and square dancing. Channel 49.2 broadcasts religious music. Channel 49.3 shows movies. Channel 49.4 has a western theme.\"\n\nThe station has produced original programming from the start. Programs include \"Dial A Bargain\", a show where a viewer calls in for gift certificates, and \"Muskegon Today\", a local program dealing with issues involving the city. Other programs include \"Table Talk\", \"The Doorstop Nation\", and \"TV BINGO\"\n\nFor most of its history, the station also had a local newscast airing at 5:30 PM. However, it is no longer on the air.\n\nIn October 2007, Kelley Enterprises put the station up for sale, including the license and equipment, citing that the owner is retiring and has plans to move south. As of 2008, the station's license is still in Kelley's name, per FCC records. Late 2009 the station was sold to BAG LLC of New York and the sale was approved by the FCC., but BAG LCC of New York failed to show up to the closing. In 2009 the station was placed back on the market. In December 2016, the station was for sale on Craigslist; the owner was quoted by MLive.com as saying \"It's past my retirement time.\"\n\nKelley was finally successful in selling the station in June 2017, when he sold it to Steve Kanzer, the principal of VRVC, LLC, a virtual venture capital fund and a western Michigan native residing in Florida with a summer lakeside home in Norton Shores. Kanzer plans to update the station's operations to digital standards, along with using its post-spectrum move to channel 31 to its advantage, rebranding it in connection with U.S. Highway 31, which runs up the Lake Michigan shoreline, including an older style \"31\" highway shield as its new logo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108641", "title": "Alpha Vulpeculae", "text": "Alpha Vulpeculae\n\nAlpha Vulpeculae (α Vulpeculae, abbreviated Alpha Vul, α Vul), officially named Anser , is the brightest star in the constellation of Vulpecula. It is approximately 297 light-years from Earth. It forms a wide optical binary with 8 Vulpeculae.\n\nAlpha Vulpeculae is a red giant of spectral class M1 and has apparent magnitude +4.4. It has been analysed as a member of the Arcturus stream, a group of stars with high proper motion and metal-poor properties thought to be the remnants of a small galaxy consumed by the Milky Way.\n\n\"α Vulpeculae\" (Latinised to \"Alpha Vulpeculae\") is the system's Bayer designation.\n\nIt bore the traditional name \"Anser\", derived from when the constellation had the name \"Vulpecula cum Ansere\" 'the little fox with the goose'. In 2016, the IAU organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Anser\" for this star on 30 June 2017 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nα Vulpeculae has evolved away from the main sequence after exhausting its core hydrogen and is now a red giant, probably on the red giant branch. It is about 11.3 billion years since it first formed. It has an effective surface temperature of and a bolometric luminosity of , meaning that its radius is .\n\nα Vulpeculae has been suspected to be variable in brightness by about a tenth of a magnitude, but this has never been confirmed. Analysis of the isotopic ratios in its photosphere show that it has a mass less than and has not yet evolved to the asymptotic giant branch and experienced a third dredge up.\n"}
{"id": "2108642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108642", "title": "The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea", "text": "The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea\n\nThe Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea (, meaning \"The Afternoon Towing\") is a novel written by Yukio Mishima, published in Japanese in 1963 and translated into English by John Nathan in 1965.\n\nTranslator John Nathan, in his memoir \"Living Carelessly in Tokyo and Elsewhere\" writes:My completed translation was due on January 1, 1965, and I was still struggling to contrive an English title for the book. Mishima’s title was an untranslatable pivot on the word “tugging,” as in tugboat. Literally it meant “tugging in the afternoon,” \"Gogo no Eiko\". The Japanese word for “glory,” written with different Chinese characters, is a homonym for “tugging” that every Japanese could be counted on to register upon reading the title. In the closing line, as the sailor drinks the drugged tea that will deliver him into the murderous hands of the children who plan to “tug” him back to the glory he has renounced, the narrator sardonically evokes the double entendre: “Glory, as anyone knows, is bitter stuff.”All I had to show for months of worrying this was “Drag-out” or, more cleverly, as I thought, “Glory Is a Drag.” I sent my solutions off to Strauss, who responded in a comic note dated December 2, 1964:\"I think you are on the right track with your proposed title, DRAG OUT, but not quite in that form. It lends itself to cheap jokes. Why does Mishima\" drag out \"the story? I wouldn’t be surprised if the key word were “drag” and something could be worked out with it. Using one word from the original title, what would you think of AFTERNOON DRAG? Come to think of it, a lot of homosexuals might be misled into buying the book.\"\"There isn’t any reason we have to stick to the original, which is untranslatable. The word “Peep-hole” comes to mind, if the implications are not too sensational. I think in any case whatever we decide on ought to be discussed with Mishima.\"I went to see Mishima, who seemed to relish the challenge. “Let’s come up with a long title, like Proust,” he said. Then he astonished me by rattling off half a dozen such titles in Japanese. I wrote them down as he spoke them. One seemed to translate itself: \"Umi no megumi wo ushinawarete shimatta madorosu—The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea\". I conveyed this “authorized” title to Strauss and he was delighted.\n\nMuch of the story is told following the actions of Noboru Kuroda, an adolescent boy living in Yokohama, Japan. He and his group of friends are good students but they are secretly a gang. They believe in conventional morality and are led by their schoolmate, the \"chief\". Noboru discovers in his chest of drawers a secret peephole into his widowed mother's bedroom and uses it to spy on her. Since Noboru has a keen interest in ships, his upper-class mother Fusako, who owns Rex, a European-style haute fashion clothing store, takes him to visit one near the end of the summer. There they meet Ryuji Tsukazaki, a sailor and second mate aboard the commercial steamer Rakuyo who has vague notions of a special honor awaiting him at sea. Ryuji has always remained distant from the land, but he has no real ties with the sea or other sailors. Ryuji and Fusako develop a romantic relationship, and their first night of sex is spied upon by Noboru, who watches through the peephole. As Noboru is watching his mother and the sailor, a ships horn sounds, which Ryuji turns towards. Noboru is elated, and believes he has witnessed the true order of the universe because Ryuji turns away from feeling and is drawn to the sea. He describes this as an “ineluctable circle of life”, (p. 13) in which Noboru sees himself unified with Fusako and Ryuji. However, the couple's second night together takes place at a hotel to Noboru's disappointment. The relationship continues even when Ryuji returns to sea.\n\nAt first Noboru reveres Ryuji, and sees him as a connection to one of the only meaningful things in the world- the sea. Noboru even tells the gang about his hero, insisting that “He’s different. He’s really going to do something.” (p. 50) Noboru is overjoyed when Ryuji returns to the Rayuko, leaving Fusako behind, because he sees this as “the perfection of the adults.” (p. 87) However, Ryuji eventually begins losing Noboru's respect, beginning when Ryuji meets Noboru and his gang at the park one day. Ryuji had just drenched himself in the water fountain, which Noboru is extremely embarrassed by, because he feels this is a childish action. Noboru takes issue with what he perceives as an undignified appearance and greeting by Ryuji. Noboru's frustration with Ryuji culminates when Fusako reveals that she and Ryuji are engaged.\n\nWhile Ryuji is sailing, he and Fusako exchange letters, and they fall deeply in love. Returning to Yokohama days before the New Year, he moves into their house and gets engaged to Fusako. Ryuji then lets the Rakuyo sail without him as the New Year begins. This distances him from Noboru, whose group resents fathers as a terrible manifestation of a dreadful position. Fusako has lunch with one of her clients, Yoriko, a famous actress who is described as stolid and only trusts her fans. After Fusako breaks the news of her engagement to Ryuji, the lonely actress advises Fusako to have a private investigation done on Ryuji, sharing her disappointing experience with her ex-fiancé. Fusako ultimately decides to go forth with this idea in order to prove to Yoriko that Ryuji is the man he says he is. After they depart, the investigation is done and Ryuji passes the test. Fusako then plans to put him in a managing position at Rex. Noboru's secret of the peephole is discovered, but Ryuji does not punish him severely in order to fulfill his role of a lovable father, despite being asked to by Fusako.\nAs Ryuji and Fusako's wedding draws near, Noboru begins to grow more angry and calls an “emergency meeting” of the gang. Due to the philosophy of the gang they decide that the only way to make Ryuji a “hero” again is to kill and dissect him, yielding a preferably honorable death. The chief reassures the gang by quoting a Japanese law, which says, “Acts of juveniles under the age of 14 are not punishable by law.” He sees this as their last chance to fill the emptiness of the world and have witness over the life of men. Their plan is that Noboru (number 3 in the gang) will lure Ryuji to the dry dock in Sugita. The members of the gang each bring an item to assist in drugging of Ryuji and his dissection. The items include a strong hemp rope, a thermos for the teaspoons, cups, sugar, a blindfold, pills to drug the tea, and a scalpel. Their plan works perfectly; as he drinks the tea, Ryuji muses on the life he has given up at sea, and the no-longer-possible heroic life of love and death he has abandoned. The novel ends when Ryuji sees the chief putting on his gloves and, giving no attention to it, drinks his tea while lost in his thoughts.\n\nThe themes of glory and honour are central to the story, and Mishima explores these ideas mainly through the character Ryuji Tsukazaki.\n\nWhen Ryuji is first introduced, he is strongly associated with gold, a colour which often has positive connotations of triumph, achievement, and royalty. Gold is often highly regarded and respected, and can symbolise higher ideals. This therefore casts Ryuji as a representation of ultimate glory and honour. Furthermore, it is emphasised that this is \"authentic gold\", hence removing negative connotations of artificiality and pretentiousness, as well as establishing that Ryuji exists in the real world, and is not simply an illusory dream. Gold could also be a symbol of masculine energy and power, which highlights Ryuji's manliness. This masculinity is a point of pride and honour – Ryuji reflected later in the novel on how the sailor's life \"impelled (him) toward the pinnacle of manliness\", and agonised over whether he could \"give it up\". This aligns with the author's ideals as well – Mishima had been obsessed with hyper-masculinity and had strived to attain it himself, as exemplified by his endeavours in bodybuilding.\n\nRyuji's pursuit of glory deeply affects Noboru. For the thirteen-year-old Noboru, Ryuji is a hero, a \"luminous evidence of the internal order of life\". Noboru is therefore determined to protect the glorious image of Ryuji after he witnesses Ryuji making love with his mother \"\"If this is ever destroyed, it'll mean the end of the world.\" Noboru murmured, barely conscious. \"I guess I'd do anything to stop that, no matter how awful!\"\" Noboru's obsession with Ryuji and the idea of glory he represents ultimately lead to Ryuji's murder.\n\nDeath is strongly associated with glory in Mishima's text. Mishima had said in one of his interviews: “It is natural for me to find it obscene that human beings live only for themselves. You might call this the boredom of living ... they get bored living just for themselves ... always think of living for some kind of ideal. Because of this, the need to die for something arises. That need is the “great cause” people talked about in the past. Dying for a great cause was considered the most glorious heroic or brilliant way of dying” Thus in a certain way Mishima hereby personifies his ideology in Ryuji's character. When Ryuji was first introduced as an almost god-like figure, attention was drawn to his \"dangerous, glittering gaze\", hence firmly linking glory with danger, and by extension, death. Glory in the text is also found in the turbulence and uncertainty of the sea and in the danger of death that the sea may bring about: \"They were consubstantial: glory and the capsized world. He longed for a storm\".\n\nGlory is presented as inherently dangerous in the novel, as evident in how Ryuji felt \"glory knifing toward him like a shark from some great distance\". The sharp violence and peril associated with knives, as well as the predatory nature of sharks, illustrates the great risks that came with the pursuit of glory.\n\nWhen Ryuji gives up his Grand Cause and settles onto the land, he loses his life. Before his death, his thoughts drift back to the glory that he has longed to pursue: \" Emperor palms. Wine palms. Surging out of the splendor of the sea, death had swept down on him like a stormy bank of clouds. A vision of death now eternally beyond his reach, majestic, acclaimed, heroic death unfurled its rapture across his brain. And if the world had been provided for just this radiant death, then why shouldn't the world also perish for it!\"\n\nThe theme of alienation is shown through the isolation of the characters Noboru and Ryuji Tsukazaki. The character Noboru is portrayed as isolated in the book as he seems to not understand all that going around him. The idea of westernisation is also brought into play as Noboru is seen as very traditional yet his mother is westernised, which is seen through a physical description of her room. In the physical description of Fusako's (Noboru's Mother) room, Mishima constantly refers back to where a certain element is imported from. Written through Noboru's perspective we can see that because he is not westernised and is still very much traditional to his culture he notices these elements- where the item is from. Through this separation due to westernisation the idea of Noboru being alienated is brought up as he is detached from even the closest person to him- his mother. In the book Mishima describes \"Noboru couldn’t believe he was looking at his mother’s bedroom; it might have belonged to a stranger.\" Through this quote we can see that not only is he not close to his mother but that he feels as though his mother is a stranger which reinforces the idea of alienation.\n\nThe theme of alienation is highlighted also by the character Ryuji Tuskazaki due to his detachment to society. Mishima describes ‘’He grew indifferent to the lure of exotic lands. He found himself in the strange predicament all sailors share: essentially he belonged neither to the land nor to the sea. Possible a man who hates the land should dwell on shore forever.\" The phrase \"belonged neither to the land nor to the sea\" implicates the idea of alienation as there is only land and sea, but Tsukazaki belongs to neither which questions the reader where does he belong?\n\nIn conclusion, both Ryuji and Noboru feel detached to society, and in various degrees and for different reasons, they both try to relieve their isolation. In Fusako, Ryuji finds the anchor for which he has been searching, and moves quickly into the comfortable life of lover and father. Noboru has chosen to turn his loneliness to hatred and seek for strength using murder. The prevalence of alienation and loneliness as a theme can be linked back to Mishima's own background. Not unlike Noboru and The chief, Mishima dreamt that Japan was restored to its original power and glory. Mishima's dislike towards Japan's westernization is reflected through “Chief’s contempt of adult nature.\n\nThe role of females in the novel seems sparse – the main female character is Fusako, who is the love interest of Ryuji and the mother of Noboru. In some ways, she is one of the most important characters in the novel as her relationship with Ryuji is the unbecoming of him in some ways. The balance of their relationship seems quite equal and Fusako is portrayed to be the perfect partner and housewife. She is also portrayed to be an independent woman who is doing better in her business than Ryuji is with his work. She is also seen to be diplomatic with her clients in her business.\nMale characters dominate the book, but most seem dependent or obsessed with some sort of notion – Ryuji with his quest for glory, Noboru and his need to conform to his ‘gang’s’ ideology, and the chief and his obsession with his ideas surrounding life. Males in the book also seem to be the characters who are pursuing a specific goal, unlike Fusako, who seems to be a static character throughout the novel.\n\n\nWithin the novel, Mishima uses the gang to portray his belief in the futility of human life and society.[1] He uses the gang to show how the process of dehumanization works and affects society. All six members of the gang are alienated from the society in which they live. The gang believes emotions impede them from living authentically in a corrupt and controlling society, so the chief conditions them to feel numb through overstimulation, such as by viewing pornography and—most graphically—killing and dissecting a cat. The chief believes that suppression of one's excitement or disgust in such situations will erode emotions and allow the gang to live “real” are authentic lives outside of the confines and control of adults and conventional society. Another way that Mishima shows the alienation of the gang is by having the chief assign them numbers in place of their given names, thereby erasing identity given to them by their parents. Even the main character, Noboru, is known in the gang as number three. Despite Noboru's efforts to achieve an emotionless state, however, he maintains a belief that meaning might be found in the sea. His attempt to find meaning is evident in his love for ships and his initial reverence and respect for Ryuji Tsukazaki, a merchant sailor whose commitment to sea is illustrated when Tsukazaki turns toward the sound of a ship's horn in the bedroom scene early in the novel (12). Eventually, however, even Tsukazaki fails to live up to Noboru's expectations, and Noboru begins keeping a tally of the sail crimes Tsukazaki commits as the sailor falls in love with Noboru's mother, moves in, and gets engaged to be married. Noboru's alienation and disappointment in Tsukazaki and his mother's appropriation of western fashion aligns with Mishima's own feelings of dehumanization and marginalization due to his assumed homosexuality and conflicting feelings about Japanese society in a post-war world.\n\nThe entire novel is an allegory for the situation following Japan's defeat after World War II.[2] This can be seen by the characters and their representation of the different components of Japan that surfaced following the war. Noboru and his ‘gang’ represent Mishima's values and ideals. Noboru's mother, Fusako, represents post-war westernization of Japanese culture. Ryuji represents old Japan, and he is attracted to the sea, something that represents glory and a special destiny for him. Mishima himself was a Japanese nationalist who hated seeing Japan influenced by the Western world after World War II. This is comparable to Ryuji's eventual “fall from grace with the sea” by marrying Fusako. In effect, their marriage represents Ryuji capitulating to post-war westernization. Noboru's killing of Ryuji for marrying Fusako can be seen as a foreshadowing for Mishima's own attempted coup d'état of the Japanese government, an attempt to regain some of Japan's heritage and tradition lost because of post-war westernization. At the end of the novel, Mishima explores the choices that Ryuji has made. Ryuji seems to regret his decision to give up the sea and ‘majestic, acclaimed, heroic death,’ which is likened to glory. Instead, he has been ‘abandoned,’ condemned to ‘a life bereft of motion.’ The ‘life bereft of motion’ refers to the surrender of Japan to western values, and the ‘majestic, acclaimed, heroic death’ refers to sticking by Japanese traditions and values.\n\nRyuji Tsukazaki is a sailor and Fusako Kuroda's lover. Throughout the book it is shown that Ryuji (also known as the sailor) sees himself destined for glory though at that point he is not sure as to what kind of glory he will receive. Ryuji falls in love with Fusako and later he marries her, becoming a father-figure to her son Noboru. This new love and the failure to achieve glory in the presence of the sea lead him to determine to retire from the sea, thus outraging Noboru and causing him to take action.\n\nNoboru is a thirteen-year boy and the son of Fusako. He is the protagonist of this novel. He is influenced by his friends, especially the chief who thinks “..society is basically meaningless, a Roman mixed bath.” They have nihilistic view of the world and Noboru, after killing the innocent cat thinks murder would “fill those gaping caves” and he and his gang can achieve “real power over existence.”\n\nAlthough he thinks there is little meaning in life, he is fascinated with the strength and vastness of the sea as he thinks it has “internal order of life.” Chief also explains him that the sea is “more permissible than any of the few other permissible things.” Therefore, he idealises Ryuji who lives and works in the ship. He is delighted when he sees his mother and the sailor are in love, saying “...Ryuji was perfect. So was his mother.”\n\nHowever, he becomes extremely disappointed when he found out that the sailor was different from what he thought, “...But he hadn’t said anything of the kind. Instead he had offered his ridiculous explanation.” Eventually when Ryuji gives up his life as a sailor for Fusako and Noboru and destroyed the heroic image that Noboru had, Noboru and his gang punish him for giving up his glory.\n\nNoboru's mother. Fusako is a widowed woman who runs a luxury goods import store called Rex within the town of Yokohama, Japan. After meeting Ryuji Tsukazaki during a ship tour, Fusako falls in love. Eventually Ryuji leaves once again for sea, and Fusako vows that she will not be a “harbor whore” and does her best to not let Ryuji's departure affect her. In December of the same year, Ryuji returns from sea and proposes to Fusako. Fusako accepts and fully invites Ryuji into her and Noboru's life. \nFusako strives towards elegance, as is demonstrated by her stocking of luxury goods. Her stocking of luxury goods is also representative of her western leanings, because all of the goods she stocks are of western origin. In addition to only stocking western goods, Fusako partakes in very few Japanese traditions. She offers coffee instead of tea, goes to restaurants that serve non traditional food, and only celebrates old traditions on special occasions such as New Years.\n\nThe manager of Rex. He is an older man who is described as having “devoted his life to elegance in dress,” (p. 25). Mr. Shibuya is shown as having more concern over the needs of others than his own. He especially feels a sense of responsibility for Fusako, because he has been helping her since her husband died five years previous to the opening of the novel. Mr. Shibuya echoes the traits of the goods he sells. He is elegant, refined, and exists for the sole purpose of bettering someone else's life.\n\nWhile he is only present for a small portion of the novel, his role is rather substantial. Mr. Shibuya, by aiding Fusako with the store, is a catalyst for Fusako's turn away from traditions, which then helps Noboru cement himself in the chief's ideology.\n\nA famous movie actress who is obsessed with public acclaim and her image. However, Yoriko has a dark side. She's a woman who has experienced much struggle in her life. She only finds happiness and satisfaction within the praise of others. This happiness is difficult for Yoriko to achieve, because she feels she only has two friends; her fans and Fusako. The one time she finds the praise and satisfaction she desires, it is in the arms of a man. Naturally, Yoriko becomes engaged to this “savior” and she thrives. Later it is revealed that he has been cheating on her and is the father of several children, all of whom were born out of wedlock. The breaking of her engagement drives Yoriko to attempt suicide. However, none of the public ever know anything about it because her public image is still the most important part of her.\n\nThese numbers are the only identifiers given to the other boys in the chief's gang. All of these boys come from wealthy families and are top students in their class. The amount of “perfection” in their lives is what drives the boys into the open arms of the chief's teachings. As is typical of wealthy families, the boys’ parents are rarely home and the large houses in which they live are cold and empty. The only attention they get from adults is from teachers praising their work and adults who love kids. Neither of these interactions come off as genuine, leading the boys to believe that there is no meaning in the world. Believing there is no meaning causes the boys to become cold and harsh. This then allows them to find atrocities, such as the murder of the kitten and Ryuji, beautiful. In addition to not believing there is meaning in the world, the chief is the first person in a position of authority that actually pays attention to the boys, which then makes it easier for them to accept his teachings.\n\nA thirteen-year-old boy, known only as “The Chief” to his gang, which Noboru is part of, leads an investigation to understand existence through analysis and criticism of human nature, social structure and life. “The Chief” is arrogant and dispassionate, but is also precocious. His hatred towards the normality of life has led him to committing extreme acts, namely his butchering and subsequent dissection of a kitten.\n\nThe entire novel is an allegory for the situation following Japan's defeat after World War II. This can be seen by the characters and their representation of the different components of Japan that had surfaced following the war. Noboru and his ‘gang’ represent old Japanese traditions and values. Noboru's mother, Fusako, represents westernisation of the Japanese culture. The sea represented glory, and Ryuji's attraction towards this notion was in itself a metaphor for Japan's quest in the war.\nSome of the gang's inhumane actions symbolise how some of the decisions made by the Japanese in the war were also inhumane. Thirteen year old boys killing a baby cat goes against usual human nature, and in the war there were kamikaze bombings, where a person would kill themselves for a desperate offensive attack and a glorious death.\nAt the end of the novel, Mishima explores the choices that Ryuji has made. Ryuji seems to regret his decision to give up the sea and ‘majestic, acclaimed, heroic death’, which is likened to glory. Instead, he has been ‘abandoned’, condemned to ‘a life bereft of motion’. The ‘life bereft of motion’ refers to the surrender of Japan to western values, and the ‘majestic, acclaimed, heroic death’ refers to sticking by Japanese traditions and values. Through these melancholy destinies that Ryuji has chosen from, Mishima expresses his thoughts on how the Japanese seem to be condemned to a glorified death or bottomless limbo.\n\nThe novel was adapted into the film \"The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea\" starring Kris Kristofferson and Sarah Miles in 1976 by Lewis John Carlino. The setting was changed from Japan to England.\n\nAn opera by Hans Werner Henze, \"Das verratene Meer\", is based on the novel; it was premiered in Berlin in 1990. The reception was not good, since a revised version, entitled \"Goko no Eiko\" written by Henze under the initiative of the maestro conductor Gerd Albrecht, was adapted to a Japanese libretto close to Mishima's original. The world premiere at Salzburger Festspiele 2005 is released on the label Orfeo, unfortunately without any libretto included.\n\nMishima, Y., & Nathan, J. (1972). The Sailor Who Fell From Grace With the Sea: Yukio Mishima.\n\nAydoğdu, M. (May 2012). Is There a Way Out?: The Inhuman Politics of Noboru and His Gang in Yukio Mishima's The Sailor Who Fell From Grace with the Sea. Çankaya University Journal of Humanities and Social Sciences, Volume 9: Issue 1, pp. 157–164.\nhttp://cujhss.cankaya.edu.tr/tr/9-1/14%20Aydogdu.pdf\n\nJoV (September 7, 2010). Yukio Mishima: The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea. \nRetrieved from https://bibliojunkie.wordpress.com/2010/09/07/yukio-mishima-the-sailor-who-fell-from-grace-with-the-sea/\n"}
{"id": "2108643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108643", "title": "WTLJ", "text": "WTLJ\n\nWTLJ, virtual channel 54 (UHF digital channel 24), is a Tri-State Christian Television owned-and-operated television station licensed to Muskegon, Michigan, United States and serving the Grand Rapids–Kalamazoo–Battle Creek television market. The station's transmitter is located in Allendale Charter Township in Ottawa County, just southwest of Grand Valley State University. Its signal is relayed on translator station WJGP-LD (channel 26; originally W24BO channel 24) in Kalamazoo.\n\nUntil June 2018, the station aired its own locally produced programs, \"Ask the Pastor\" and \"Down Home\", from a studio adjacent to its transmitter. This ended with the elimination of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)'s Main Studio Rule earlier in the year and a decision by TCT's operators to consolidate all programming operations at its headquarters in Marion, Illinois.\n\nThe UHF channel 54 allocation in Michigan was originally assigned to Lansing. It was occupied by DuMont affiliate WILS, which later became WTOM-TV (call letters now used on channel 4 in Cheboygan), and was on the air from 1953 to 1956. The channel 54 allocation was then reassigned to Muskegon. Full-power station WMKG-TV broadcast in the late 1960s from the Occidental Hotel in downtown Muskegon. That station, which operated as an independent station and relied heavily on live, local programming, had left the air by the mid-1970s.\n\nIn the early-1980s, WTLJ was originally assigned the call letters WMKT with the intention of focusing on the Muskegon and Holland areas. That station was never built (Muskegon has its own station, WMKG-CD, which fulfills this purpose).\n\nIn November 1986, Springfield, Ohio-based Miami Valley Christian Television launched WTLJ, as a Christian-oriented independent station. The station would eventually be sold to its present owners, Tri-State Christian Television. The history of its Kalamazoo repeater, WJGP-LD, is unknown, other than the fact that its application to move its signal from UHF channel 24 to channel 26 was approved in December 1998; the channel switch occurred in January 2002 to facilitate WTLJ's eventual digital channel 24.\n\nThe station was receivable in analog on the western shore of Lake Michigan in the Wisconsin cities of Sheboygan and Milwaukee because of channel 54's transmitter being close to the Lake Michigan shore, although TCT does not explicitly market to those cities or have any cable coverage. With the termination on March 4, 2009 of the analog channel 24 signal of Milwaukee's WCGV, the station's digital signal is also easily picked up in Wisconsin.\n\nWTLJ is carried on AcenTek systems serving Buckley, Copemish, Hoxeyville, Mesick, Old Mission, South Boardman, and Thompsonville (all located in the Traverse City market).\n\nWTLJ formerly collaborated with the Ottawa County Department of Corrections to allow probationers to operate the station to receive community service credits and complete their sentences.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWTLJ shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 54, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 24, using PSIP to display WTLJ's virtual channel as 54 on digital television receivers, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108647", "title": "Castro Alves", "text": "Castro Alves\n\nAntônio Frederico de Castro Alves (March 14, 1847 – July 6, 1871) was a Brazilian poet and playwright, famous for his abolitionist and republican poems. One of the most famous poets of the \"Condorism\", he won the epithet of \"O Poeta dos Escravos\" (\"\"The Poet of the Slaves\"\").\n\nHe is the patron of the 7th chair of the Brazilian Academy of Letters.\n\nCastro Alves was born in the town of Curralinho (renamed \"Castro Alves\" in his honor in 1900), in the Brazilian state of Bahia, to Antônio José Alves, a medician, and Clélia Brasília da Silva Castro, one of the daughters of José Antônio da Silva Castro (a.k.a. \"Periquitão\", Portuguese for \"Big Parakeet\"), a prominent fighter in the 1821–23 Siege of Salvador. In 1853, he was sent to study in the Colégio Sebrão, run by Abílio César Borges, the Baron of Macaúbas. There, he would meet and befriend Ruy Barbosa.\n\nIn 1862, he moved to Recife in order to study at the Faculdade de Direito do Recife, but he was rejected twice. He only was able to join the college in 1864, there meeting Tobias Barreto and José Bonifácio the Younger (step-grandson of famous statesman José Bonifácio). They would heavily influence Alves' writing style, and in turn, Alves also influenced them both. His father would die in 1866, and short after, he met Portuguese actress Eugênia Câmara, and would start dating her afterwards.\n\nIn 1867, Alves returns to Bahia alongside Câmara, and there he writes his drama \"Gonzaga, ou A Revolução de Minas\", based on the life of famous Luso-Brazilian Neoclassic poet Tomás António Gonzaga and his participation in the failed 1789 Minas Conspiracy. In the following year, he and Câmara would go to São Paulo, where Alves entered the Faculdade de Direito da Universidade de São Paulo and once more would meet Ruy Barbosa. In there, he also befriended Pedro Luís Pereira de Sousa, and wrote a poem named \"Deusa incruenta\", based on Sousa's work \"Terribilis Dea\". His play \"Gonzaga\" would be performed on the end of 1868, being well received by critics and public alike, but Alves was sad because his romantic engagement with Eugênia Câmara had terminated.\n\nDuring a hunting trip in the same year, Alves received an accidental shotgun shot in his left foot, that had to be amputated due to the menace of gangrene. However, a prosthesis was made for him, and thus he was able to walk again (although with the use of an assistive cane). He would spend the year of 1870 in his home-state of Bahia, trying to recover from the tuberculosis he got while in São Paulo. Also in 1870, Alves published the poetry book \"Espumas Flutuantes\" – the only work he would publish during his lifetime. All his other works would receive a posthumous publication.\n\nAlves' attempts to mitigate the tuberculosis were in vain; he died on 6 July 1871, in the city of Salvador, at 24 years old.\n\n\nAlves also translated into Portuguese many poems by Victor Hugo, and Lord Byron's \"Darkness\" and \"Lines Inscribed Upon a Cup Formed from a Skull\". They can be found on \"Espumas Flutuantes\".\n\n\nAlves was portrayed by Paulo Maurício in the 1949 film \"Vendaval Maravilhoso\", loosely based on Jorge Amado's 1941 book \"The ABC of Castro Alves\", and by Bruno Garcia in Silvio Tendler's 1999 documentary \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2108653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108653", "title": "The Piano Player (Maksim Mrvica album)", "text": "The Piano Player (Maksim Mrvica album)\n\nThe Piano Player is a 2003 music album created by Maksim Mrvica. The album was released with the Copy Control protection system in some regions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108657", "title": "Clark Planetarium", "text": "Clark Planetarium\n\nThe Clark Planetarium is situated within The Gateway at the intersection of 400 West and 100 South in downtown Salt Lake City, Utah, United States. The Clark Planetarium opened in April 2003, replacing the historic Hansen Planetarium under a grant from the Clark Foundation in cooperation with Salt Lake County.\n\nThis theater is the first \"pitless\" digital dome planetarium in the United States. The dome is a 55-foot (16.8 m) perforated aluminum dome manufactured by Astro-tec Manufacturing Inc. The theater seats 190 and features individual interactive seat button controls. In September, 2018 the theater was closed due to renovations replacing the seats with new chairs. Designed around Evans & Sutherland's Digistar planetarium system, two super-high resolution projectors work together to blend a single seamless video stream over the entire dome. What results is an entirely new way to experience the universe, in 3 dimensions (no glasses required) with a resolution far beyond high definition video. The new system installed in 2011 can display 4096 X 4096 resolution and 60 frames per second.\n\nA specially tuned 13,000 watt sound system with 5.1 surround sound and 21 speakers is installed behind the screen. Shows in this hemispherical theater cover a variety of space-related themes, from fully immersive 3D productions to live-narrated current events programs to family shows to music entertainment performance. Clark Planetarium Productions is one of the few informal science education institutions with the resources to create and distribute its own fulldome animation content.\n\nThis planetarium features an IMAX certified big screen theater. The Orbital ATK IMAX Theatre at Clark Planetarium emphasizes science and nature documentary programming. Shows feature both 3-D and 2-D films. A major renovation in November, 2010 modernized the theater with digital projectors, a new screen, new seats, and a new sound system.\n\nThe Clark Planetarium Production Department is carrying on the 37-year tradition of the Hansen Planetarium by creating and distributing cutting edge content for planetariums worldwide. The production group creates its own digital dome cinema using a new 464-node render farm. Original full dome shows created by the Clark Planetarium production department include:\n\nThe Clark Planetarium features of free exhibits including the newly installed \"Science on a Sphere,\" a computer animation globe by NOAA. Also unique is \"Newton's Daydream,\" the most ambitious audio-kinetic sculpture ever created by artist George Rhoads. Other popular exhibits include a Foucault pendulum, Earth Globe, Meteorites, Telescope displays, and updating video from the Hubble Space Telescope and NASA TV. The Clark Planetarium is also one of the few institutions to have an authentic moon rock sample on permanent loan from NASA. This rock was obtained from the Apollo 15 mission and is displayed in a special exhibit showing the Apollo moon landings and video footage of the astronauts collecting the displayed sample rock. New exhibits are added on a regular basis, including a rocketry display by ATK Launch Systems of Utah, a Solar Energy exhibit, and \"Weight on Other Worlds.\"\n\nThe education department at the planetarium serves over 75,000 school children a year through field trips and traveling science education programs throughout the state of Utah. Outreach programs include \"auditorium programs\" which showcase some of the best interactive science demonstrations possible. In-depth visits to 6th grades focus on aspects of their astronomy curriculum, and \"star parties\" provide opportunities to directly view many celestial objects. Topics include electricity, Newton's laws of motion, phases of the moon, seasons, distance and scale, planets, the solar system, and other science interest topics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108658", "title": "Durmitor", "text": "Durmitor\n\nDurmitor (Montenegrin and Serbian Cyrillic: Дурмитор, ) is a massif located in northwestern Montenegro. It is part of the Dinaric Alps. Its highest peak, Bobotov Kuk, reaches a height of .\n\nThe massif is limited by the Tara River Canyon on the north, the Piva River Canyon on the west, and by the Komarnica River Canyon on the south. To the east, the Durmitor opens to a high plateau, called \"Jezerska površ\" (Plateau of Lakes). The Sinjavina mountain is located to the east of the \"Jezerska površ\" plateau. The Durmitor is for the most part located in the Žabljak municipality.\n\nThe massif gives its name to the national park that comprises it. Durmitor National Park was founded in 1952, and designated as a World Heritage Site in 1980.\n\nThe massif has 48 peaks above . Highest peaks are:\n\nDurmitor features 18 glacial lakes, scattered over mountain massif and \"Jezerska Površ\" plateau. The lakes add significantly to the beauty of the mountain, and have been nicknamed \"Gorske Oči\", or \"mountain eyes\".\n\n\n\nThe name \"Durmitor\" is derived from Balkan Romance-Vlach, meaning \"sleeping place\" (cognate with English dormitory). There are similarly named mountains such as Visitor (\"visător\", \"dreamer\") and Cipitor (\"aţipitor\", \"sleeper\") across former Yugoslavia.\n\nDurmitor National Park, created in 1952, includes the massif of Durmitor, the canyons of Tara, Sušica and Draga rivers and the higher part of the canyon plateau Komarnica, covering an area of . It is the largest protected area in Montenegro, and it was inscribed on the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites in 1980. \n\nAt long and deep, the Tara River Canyon in Durmitor National Park is the deepest gorge in Europe.\n\nDurmitor mountain is the centre of Montenegrin mountain tourism. The tourist facilities are concentrated around the town of Žabljak. In winter, the main activities on Durmitor are skiing and snowboarding. In summer, the activities shift to hiking, mountaineering and recreational tourism. Water sports are also practiced in the area. One of the most prominent attractions of Durmitor mountain are 18 glacial lakes, the best known of which is the Black Lake.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108660", "title": "Alpha Monocerotis", "text": "Alpha Monocerotis\n\nAlpha Monocerotis, Latinized from α Monocerotis, is the Bayer designation for the brightest star in the equatorial constellation of Monoceros. It can be viewed with the naked eye, having an apparent visual magnitude of 3.94. Based upon an annual parallax shift of 22.07 mas as seen from Earth, it is located 148 light years away from the Sun. The star is moving away from the Sun with a radial velocity of +10.5 km/s.\n\nThe stellar classification of indicates this is an evolved giant star of type G, which means the hydrogen has been depleted at its core and the outer envelope has expanded and cooled. The 'Fe−0.5' notation indicates the spectrum displays a slight underabundance of iron relative to other stars of this temperature. It is a red clump giant, which means it is generating energy through helium fusion at its core. At the age of 1.18 billion years, this yellow-hued star has an estimated two times the mass of the Sun and 10 times the Sun's radius. It is spinning sedately with a rotation period of about 326 days.\n"}
{"id": "2108666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108666", "title": "WGVU-TV", "text": "WGVU-TV\n\nWGVU-TV, virtual channel 35 (VHF digital channel 11), is a Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) member television station licensed to Grand Rapids, Michigan, United States. It operates a full-time satellite station, WGVK (virtual channel 52, VHF digital channel 5) in Kalamazoo. The two stations are owned by Grand Valley State University, and maintain studios in the Meijer Public Broadcast Center, located in the Eberhard Center on the GVSU Pew Campus in downtown Grand Rapids. WGVU's transmitter is located near the GVSU main campus in Allendale, while WGVK's transmitter is based in Kalamazoo's Westwood neighborhood.\n\nThe station signed on the air on December 17, 1972 as WGVC-TV, owned by what was then Grand Valley State College. Channel 35 originally operated from the basement of Manitou Hall on GVSC's Allendale campus.\n\nWGVC-TV's signal was somewhat marginal in the southern portion of the vast West Michigan market (Kalamazoo and Battle Creek). It must conform its signal to protect fellow PBS member WNIT in South Bend, Indiana, on adjacent channel 34. In much of this area, WGVC-TV could only be seen on cable. This was very similar to what the area's main ABC affiliate, WZZM-TV (channel 13), faced due to the presence of WTVG in Toledo, Ohio. To make up for this shortfall in coverage, Grand Valley State signed on WGVK as a satellite station in 1984. In 1986, the station relocated to its current studio facility at the Meijer Public Broadcast Center. The station's callsign was changed to WGVU in 1987, when Grand Valley State was elevated to university status.\n\nWGVU produces numerous local programs. It also carries national shows from PBS, American Public Television, and the National Educational Telecommunications Association. NPR and PRI programming heard on WGVU-FM is aired on the fifth digital subchannel's SAP channel.\n\n\n\nWGVU produces documentaries. Notable documentaries are \"LZ Michigan\" (A \"Landing Zone\" to Remember, Honor, and Celebrate our Community’s Veterans and Their Families), \"Time and Chance: Gerald Ford's Appointment with History,\" \"Surviving Auschwitz: Children of the Shoah\" and \"Defying Hitler.\"\n\nWGVU and WGVK's digital channels are multiplexed:\nWGVU/WGVK's main channel offers programming in 1080i high definition; standard definition programs are shown with pillarboxing. WGVU/WGVK's fifth digital subchannel offers a scrolling still screen featuring schedule information for the station's three other subchannels, along with background audio and NPR news updates from oldies radio sister station . WGVU-FM is available through the SAP channel.\n\nBoth stations shut down their analog signals respectively, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television:\n\n"}
{"id": "2108678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108678", "title": "Cassels", "text": "Cassels\n\nCassels is a surname, and may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108680", "title": "Gamma Ursae Minoris", "text": "Gamma Ursae Minoris\n\nGamma Ursae Minoris (γ Ursae Minoris, abbreviated Gamma UMi, γ UMi), also named Pherkad , is a star in the northern circumpolar constellation of Ursa Minor. Together with Beta Ursae Minoris (Kochab), it forms the end of the dipper pan of the \"Little Dipper\", which is an asterism forming the tail of the bear. Based upon parallax measurements obtained during the Hipparcos mission, it is approximately from the Sun.\n\n\"γ Ursae Minoris\" (Latinised to \"Gamma Ursae Minoris\") is the star's Bayer designation. The fainter 11 Ursae Minoris has been called \"γ¹ Ursae Minoris\", in which case \"Gamma Ursae Minoris\" would be designated \"γ²\". However this usage is rarely seen.\n\nGamma Ursae Minoris bore the traditional name \"Pherkad\", which derived from the Arabic فرقد \"farqad\" \"calf\", short for \"aḫfa al farkadayn\" \"the dim one of the two calves\", that is Pherkad and Kochab (the full name Ahfa al Farkadain is traditionally applied to Zeta Ursae Minoris). Gamma Ursae Minoris was mostly called \"Pherkad Major\" to distinguish it from \"Pherkad Minor\" (11 Ursae Minoris). In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Pherkad\" for Gamma Ursae Minoris on 21 August 2016 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"North Pole\", refers to an asterism consisting of Gamma Ursae Minoris, Beta Ursae Minoris, 5 Ursae Minoris, 4 Ursae Minoris and Σ 1694. Consequently, the Chinese name for Gamma Ursae Minoris itself is (, ), representing (), meaning \"Crown Prince\".\n\nGamma Ursae Minoris has apparent magnitude +3.05 and can be readily observed with the naked eye even in a city-lit night sky. It has an absolute magnitude of –2.84. Measurement of the star's spectrum resulted in a stellar classification of A3 Iab, with the luminosity class of 'Iab' indicating this is an intermediate luminosity supergiant star. The effective temperature of the star's outer envelope is 8,280 K, giving it the typical white hue of an A-type star. It is rotating rapidly, with the projected rotational velocity of providing a lower limit on the azimuthal velocity along the star's equator.\n\nThis is classified as a shell star that has a circumstellar disk of gas around the star's equator, which may be causing it to vary in magnitude. It is 1100 times more luminous than the Sun, and possesses a radius 15 times that of the Sun.\n\nPherkad (spelled as \"Pherkard\") also features in Cthulhu Mythos, in the short story \"The Thing in the Library\", by Crispin Burnham and E.P. Berglund. It is mentioned as the stellar abode of the flaming Outer God Yomagn'tho.\n"}
{"id": "2108684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108684", "title": "The Faceless Ones", "text": "The Faceless Ones\n\nThe Faceless Ones is the mostly missing eighth serial of the fourth season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in six weekly parts from 8 April to 13 May 1967. The story concerns a race of identity-stealing aliens known as the Chameleons. It sees the departure of Michael Craze and Anneke Wills as the Doctor's companions Ben Jackson and Polly. Only two of the six episodes are held in the BBC archives; four remain missing.\n\nAn animated version of the serial from BBC Studios was released on 16 March 2020.\n\nThe TARDIS materializes on the runway of Gatwick Airport. The Second Doctor, Ben, Polly and Jamie emerge only to discover that they are in the path of an oncoming plane. They see a security officer coming for them, so they split up to flee him. Airport security confiscates the TARDIS after thinking the police are playing a practical joke on them. Polly ducks in the Chameleon Tours agency hangar, where she sees Spencer kill another man and report to his superior, Captain Blade. Polly flees, and runs into the Doctor and Jamie. After telling them what she saw, she brings them to the hangar. They examine the body and the Doctor notes that the victim was electrocuted by a weapon that can't possibly exist on Earth at that time. They leave to find someone in authority, and Blade captures Polly without the Doctor or Jamie noticing. He hides her along with the corpse before Jamie and the Doctor return with sceptical airport authorities.\n\nAlone again, Spencer revives an alien, a faceless green humanoid with prominent veins. Nurse Pinto brings in unconscious air traffic controller Meadows, and connects him to the alien and a machine. The alien transforms into a doppelgänger of Meadows, and goes to his airport job. \nPolly exits from a newly landed plane, but rejects the Doctor and Jamie, claiming to be Michelle Leuppi from Zurich.\n\nAt the Chameleon kiosk, they meet Samantha Briggs, a young Liverpudlian, searching for her brother. On a Chameleon youth tour, he sent a postcard from Rome, but nobody saw him there. Breaking in, the trio find fake postcards from missing tourists, and a monitor of the Tours hangar. The Doctor sees Ben find Polly suspended comatose in a metal cabinet, then himself gets caught and frozen by Blade and Spencer. The Doctor escapes and goes alone to the hangar and tells Jamie and Samantha to stay.\n\nThey meet Detective Inspector Crossland investigating the disappeared Chameleon customers, and realize the first body was his missing partner, DI Gascoigne. The Doctor finds only comatose Meadows and returns to demonstrate the freezing gun to the Airport Commandant, who gives them 12 hours to investigate. Blade points the ray gun at Crossland to stop him boarding the next flight, and shows him that all the passengers have vanished.\n\nSpencer attacks Jamie and Samantha, but they escape. Jamie steals Samantha's ticket and boards. Samantha finds Spencer instead of the airport manager; he ties her up for Pinto to duplicate. Meanwhile, the Doctor and Commandant learn from other airports that Chameleon passengers never arrive.\n\nBlade eliminates a pursuing RAF fighter and diverts Jamie's plane up to dock in a vast alien craft. When an airsick Jamie emerges from the toilet, he finds the passengers miniaturised in drawers. Blade's assistant Ann catches him, and traps him in a room with two misshapen aliens.\n\nThe Doctor follows the radar signals to the plane's destination, threatens to remove alien Meadows' life-supporting black armband, and elicits an explanation. An explosion damaged the alien home world, so they want to use 50,000 humans left comatose in orbit as replacements. The Doctor uses the alien Meadows to get at the alien Pinto. She resists and disintegrates, so the real Pinto revives and frees Samantha. She tells the Doctor that Jamie left.\n\nJamie meets the Director of the aliens, a Crossland copy, who says that the plane will return to the airport for the remaining Chameleons. The Doctor keeps the identities of copied staff secret, so the Commandant can find their hidden originals.\n\nThe Doctor pretends to be the alien Meadows and Pinto impersonates her double. They board the last flight to space. The alien Jamie reveals the threat of the Doctor, so Blade sends undisguised Chameleons to capture them. The Doctor offers to spare Gatwick's original aliens, when one onboard disintegrates, proving that Samantha found the real staff in parking lot cars. Blade and Spencer kill the Director and the fake Jamie, whose originals revive. Crossland stays behind when the Doctor, Jamie and Pinto return with freed humans.\n\nIn the airport, Samantha kisses Jamie goodbye. Ben and Polly learn that the day is 20 July 1966, when they first left in the TARDIS. They leave for home. The Doctor reveals to Jamie that the TARDIS has been released from airport storage, and stolen.\n\nWorking titles for this story include \"The Chameleons\". This story had its origins in a planned Hartnell story by Hulke-Ellis called \"The Big Store\", in which aliens occupied mannequins in a busy department store, while waiting for human hosts to possess. The idea was adapted for the Troughton era and its setting changed to a metropolitan airport.\n\nSome of \"The Faceless Ones\" was filmed on location at Gatwick Airport in March 1967. Heathrow also accepted the production team's offer, but the team chose Gatwick as the cost was lower. \"Doctor Who\" would later film at Heathrow for \"Time-Flight\" in 1982.\n\nAs \"The Macra Terror\" saw the debut of a new title sequence, \"The Faceless Ones\" saw the revised arrangement of the theme music that accompanied this new sequence made in Episode 2.\n\nAlthough contracted up to episode two of \"The Evil of the Daleks\", it was decided that Anneke Wills and Michael Craze would leave the series after filming for episode two of this serial. Both Ben and Polly go missing in this episode, and after their eventual rescue in the final episode they appear only in pre-filmed inserts.\n\nPauline Collins was offered the chance to continue playing the character of Sam Briggs as a new companion, but declined the offer. Collins guest-starred, years later, as Queen Victoria in \"Tooth and Claw\" (2006).\n\nBernard Kay appears as Inspector Crossland. He had previously appeared as Tyler in \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\" (1964) and Saladin in \"The Crusade\" (1965). He later appeared as Caldwell in \"Colony in Space\" (1971). Donald Pickering and Wanda Ventham would later star as husband and wife in \"Time and the Rani\" (1987). Pickering had previously appeared as Eyesen in \"The Keys of Marinus\" (1964) and Ventham would go on to play Thea Ransom in \"Image of the Fendahl\" (1977). Christopher Tranchell would return as Leela's love interest Andred in \"The Invasion of Time\" (1978) and had previously appeared as Roger Colbert in \"The Massacre of St Bartholomew's Eve\" (1966).\n\n Episode is missing\n\nPaul Cornell, Martin Day, and Keith Topping gave the serial a favourable review in \"The Discontinuity Guide\" (1995), writing that \"the realistic backdrop works very well, and the script is well constructed, augmented by the terrifying appearance of the aliens\". In 2009, Mark Braxton of \"Radio Times\" noted that there were plot holes but the story \"unveils its mystery with ease and elegance\". Episode 1 used the original version of the title sequence but then the new theme was introduced from Episode 2 onwards until Fury from the Deep Episodes 4 & 5.\n\nOnly episodes 1 and 3 of this serial exist in the BBC archives. In addition to the complete version, the archives also holds an incomplete print of episode 1, returned from ABC in Australia in late 1978. The print itself was given to ABC from a private collector living in Australia. The Australian Film Censorship Board saw fit to remove the following scenes: Spencer killing Inspector Gascoigne with a Chameleon ray-gun; the alien arm emerging from the cupboard; and panning shots of the alien figure (seen only from behind) at the end of the episode. The missing scenes were later recovered along with the other copy of episode 1. A copy of episode 3 was returned to the BBC in 1987 from a private collector living in the United Kingdom. However, 20 seconds of material is missing from episode 3, due to damage to the print.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in December 1986.\n\nAs with all missing episodes, off-air recordings of the soundtrack exist due to contemporary fan efforts. In February 2002 these were released on CD, accompanied by linking narration from Frazer Hines. In November 2003, episodes one and three of this serial were released on VHS by BBC Worldwide, along with episode one of \"The Web of Fear\", as part of \"The Reign of Terror\" boxset; this was the final VHS release, coinciding with the programme's fortieth anniversary. In November 2004, they were included in the three-disc \"Lost in Time\" DVD set.\n\nA DVD and Blu-ray release occurred on 16 March 2020; this release included an animated version of all six episodes (using the original audio) in Colour and Black and White formats alongside surviving footage and a photographic reconstruction of the missing episodes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108685", "title": "Aerocapture", "text": "Aerocapture\n\nAerocapture is an orbital transfer maneuver in which a spacecraft uses\naerodynamic drag force from a single pass through a planetary\natmosphere to decelerate and achieve orbit insertion.\n\nAerocapture uses a planet's or moon's atmosphere to accomplish a quick, near-propellantless orbit capture to place a space vehicle in its science orbit (most science orbits require a near circular orbit around the celestial body). The aerocapture maneuver starts as the spacecraft enters the atmosphere of the target body from an approach trajectory. The aerodynamic drag generated by the dense atmosphere slows the craft. After the spacecraft slows enough to capture into orbit, it exits the atmosphere and executes a small motor firing to circularize the orbit. This nearly fuel-free method of deceleration could significantly reduce the mass of an interplanetary spacecraft. Less spacecraft mass allows for more science instrumentation to be added to the mission or allows for a smaller and less-expensive spacecraft, and potentially a smaller, less-expensive launch vehicle. However, this approach requires significant thermal protection and precision closed-loop guidance during the maneuver. This level of control authority requires either the production of significant lift, or relatively large attitude control thrusters.\n\nNASA technologists are developing ways to place robotic space vehicles into long-duration scientific orbits around distant Solar System destinations without the need for the heavy fuel loads that have historically limited vehicle performance, mission duration, and mass available for science payloads.\n\nA study showed that using aerocapture over the next best method (propellant burn and aerobraking) would allow for a significant increase in scientific payload for missions ranging from Venus (79% increase) to Titan (280% increase) and Neptune (832% increase). Additionally, the study showed that using aerocapture technology could enable scientifically useful missions to Jupiter and Saturn.\n\nAerocapture technology has also been evaluated for use in manned Mars missions and found to offer significant mass benefits. For this application, however, the trajectory must be constrained to avoid excessive deceleration loads on the crew. Although there are similar constraints on trajectories for robotic missions, the human limits are typically more stringent, especially in light of the effects of prolonged microgravity on acceleration tolerances.\n\nThe aerocapture maneuver can be accomplished with three basic types of systems. The spacecraft can be enclosed by a structure covered with thermal protection material also known as the rigid aeroshell design. Similarly another option is for the vehicle to deploy an aerocapture device, such as an inflatable heat shield, known as the inflatable aeroshell design. The third major design option is of an inflatable, trailing ballute—a combination balloon and parachute made of thin, durable material towed behind the vehicle after deployment in the vacuum of space.\n\nThe blunt body, rigid aeroshell system encases a spacecraft in a protective shell. This shell acts as an aerodynamic surface, providing lift and drag, and provides protection from the intense heating experienced during high-speed atmospheric flight. Once the spacecraft is captured into orbit, the aeroshell is jettisoned.\n\nNASA has used blunt aeroshell systems in the past for atmospheric entry missions. The most recent example is the Mars Exploration Rovers, Spirit and Opportunity, which launched in June and July 2003, and landed on the Martian surface in January 2004. Another example is the Apollo Command Module. The module was used for six unmanned space flights from February 1966 to April 1968 and eleven manned missions from Apollo 7 in October 1968 through the final manned Apollo 17 lunar mission in December 1972. Because of its extensive heritage, the aeroshell system design is well understood. Adaptation of the aeroshell from atmospheric entry to aerocapture requires mission-specific customization of the thermal protection material to accommodate the different heating environments of aerocapture. Also, higher-temperature adhesives and lightweight, high temperature structures are desired to minimize the mass of the aerocapture system.\n\nThe inflatable aeroshell design looks much like the aeroshell or blunt body design. The inflatable aeroshell is often referred to as a hybrid system, with a rigid nosepiece and an inflated, attached decelerator to increase the drag area. Just prior to entering the atmosphere, the inflatable aeroshell extends from a rigid nose-cap and provides a larger surface area to slow the spacecraft down. Made of thin-film material and reinforced with a ceramic cloth, the inflatable aeroshell design could offer many of the same advantages and functionality as trailing ballute designs. While not as large as the trailing ballute, the inflatable aeroshell is roughly three times larger than the rigid aeroshell system and performs the aerocapture maneuver higher in the atmosphere, reducing heating loads. Because the system is inflatable, the spacecraft is not enclosed during launch and cruise, which allows more flexibility during spacecraft design and operations.\n\nOne of the primary inflatable deceleration technologies is a trailing ballute configuration. The design features a toroidal, or donut-shaped, decelerator, made of a lightweight, thin-film material. The ballute is much larger than the spacecraft and is towed behind the craft, much like a parachute, to slow the vehicle down. The “trailing” design also allows for easy detachment after the aerocapture maneuver is complete. The trailing ballute design has performance advantages over the rigid aeroshell design, such as not constraining the spacecraft size and shape, and subjecting the vehicle to much lower aerodynamic and thermal loads. Because the trailing ballute is much larger than the spacecraft, aerocapture occurs high in the atmosphere where much less heat is generated. The ballute incurs most of the aerodynamic forces and heat, allowing the use of minimal thermal protection around the spacecraft. One of the primary advantages of the ballute configuration is mass. Where the rigid aeroshell may account for 30–40% of the mass of a spacecraft, the ballute mass fraction could be as little as 8–12%, saving mass for more science payload.\n\nAerocapture has not yet been tried on a planetary mission, but the re-entry skip by Zond 6 and Zond 7 upon lunar return were aerocapture maneuvers, since they turned a hyperbolic orbit into an elliptical orbit. On these missions, since there was no attempt to raise the perigee after the aerocapture, the resulting orbit still intersected the atmosphere, and re-entry occurred at the next perigee.\n\nAerocapture was originally planned for the Mars Odyssey orbiter, but later changed to aerobraking for reasons of cost and commonality with other missions.\n\nAerocapture has been proposed and analyzed for arrival at Saturn's moon Titan.\n\nAerocapture within fiction can be read in Arthur C. Clarke's novel \",\" in which two spacecraft (one Russian, one Chinese) both use aerocapture in Jupiter's atmosphere to shed their excess velocity and position themselves for exploring Jupiter's satellites. This can be seen as a special effect in the movie version in which only a Russian spacecraft undergoes aerocapture (in the film incorrectly called aerobraking).\n\nPlayers of the video game Kerbal Space Program often employ aerocapture when exploring the satellites of Jool (a gas giant that serves as the game's analogue to Jupiter).\n\nIn the television serial Stargate Universe, the ship Destiny's autopilot employs aerocapture within the atmosphere of a gas giant at the edge of a star system. This puts the ship on a direct heading into the star at the center of the system.\n\nAerocapture is part of a family of \"aeroassist\" technologies being developed by NASA for science missions to any planetary body with an appreciable atmosphere. These destinations could include Mars, Venus and Saturn's moon Titan, along with the outer planets.\n\nAerobraking is another aeroassist maneuver that shares some similarities but also some important differences with aerocapture. While aerocapture is used for inserting a spacecraft into orbit from a hyperbolic trajectory, aerobraking is used for reducing the apoapsis of a spacecraft that is already in orbit.\n\nOne of the main advantages of using an aerocapture technique over that of an aerobraking technique is that it enables mission concepts for human spaceflight due to the rapid process of transitioning to the desired orbit, shortening the length of the mission by months.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108688", "title": "Westkapelle", "text": "Westkapelle\n\nWestkapelle may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2108694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108694", "title": "Corpus callosotomy", "text": "Corpus callosotomy\n\nCorpus callosotomy is a palliative surgical procedure for the treatment of medically refractory epilepsy. In this procedure the corpus callosum is cut through in an effort to limit the spread of epileptic activity between the two halves of the brain. \n\nAfter the operation the brain has much more difficulty sending messages between the hemispheres. Although the corpus callosum is the largest white matter tract connecting the hemispheres, some limited interhemispheric communication is still possible via the anterior commissure and posterior commissure. \n\n\"Efficacy and relatively low permanent morbidity in corpus callosotomy for medically intractable epilepsy have been demonstrated by more than six decades of experience. In addition to seizure reduction, behavior and quality of life may improve.\"\n\nThe first examples of corpus callosotomy were performed in the 1940s by Dr. William P. van Wagenen, who co-founded and served as president of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons. Attempting to treat epilepsy, van Wagenen studied and published the results of his surgeries, including the split-brain outcomes for patients. Wagenen’s work preceded the 1981 Nobel Prize-winning research of Roger W. Sperry by two decades. Sperry studied patients who had undergone corpus callosotomy and detailed their resulting split-brain characteristics.\n\nImprovements to surgical techniques, along with refinements of the indications, have allowed van Wagenen’s procedure to endure; corpus callosotomy is still commonly performed throughout the world. Currently, the surgery is a palliative treatment method for many forms of epilepsy, including atonic seizures, generalized seizures, and Lennox-Gastaut syndrome.\nIn a 2011 study of children with intractable epilepsy accompanied by attention deficit disorder, EEG showed an improvement to both seizures and attention impairments following corpus callosotomy.\n\nPrior to surgery, the patient’s head must be partially or completely shaven. Once under general anesthesia, an incision will allow for a craniotomy to be performed. Then sectioning will occur between the two hemispheres of the brain. For a partial callosotomy, the anterior two-thirds of the corpus callosum are sectioned, and for a complete callosotomy, the posterior one-third is also sectioned. After sectioning, the dura is closed and the portion of cranium is replaced. The scalp is then closed with sutures.\nEndoscopic corpus callosotomy has been employed with blood loss minimized during the surgical procedure.\n\nCorpus callosotomy is intended to treat patients who suffer from epilepsy and the resultant chronic seizures. The diminished life expectancy associated with epilepsy patients has been documented by population-based studies in Europe. In the United Kingdom and Sweden, the relative mortality rate of epileptic patients (patients whose epilepsy was not under control from medical or other surgical therapies, and who continued to suffer the disease) increased two- and threefold, respectively. In the vast majority of cases, corpus callosotomy abolishes instance of seizures in the patient.\n\nAlthough it varies from patient to patient, a progressive neurological or medical disease might be an absolute or relative contraindication to corpus callosotomy. Intellectual disability is not a contraindication to corpus callosotomy. In a study of children with a severe intellectual disability, total callosotomy was performed with highly favorable results and insignificant morbidity.\n\nThe corpus callosum is a fiber bundle of about 300 million fibers in the human brain that connects the two cerebral hemispheres. The interhemispheric functions of the corpus callosum include the integration of perceptual, cognitive, learned, and volitional information.\n\nThe role of the corpus callosum in epilepsy is the interhemispheric transmission of epileptiform discharges. These discharges are generally bilaterally synchronous in preoperative patients. In addition to disrupting this synchrony, corpus callosotomy decreases the frequency and amplitude of the epileptiform discharges, suggesting the transhemispheric facilitation of seizure mechanisms.\n\nThe most prominent non-surgical complications of corpus callosotomy relate to speech irregularities. For some patients, sectioning may be followed by a brief spell of mutism. A long-term side effect that some patients may suffer is an inability to engage in spontaneous speech. In addition, the resultant split-brain prevented some patients from following verbal commands that required use of their non-dominant hand.\n\nAnother complication is alien hand syndrome, in which the afflicted person's hand appears to take on a mind of its own.\n\nEpilepsy is also currently treated by a less invasive process called vagus nerve stimulation. This method utilizes an electrode implanted around the left vagus nerve within the carotid sheath in order to send electrical impulses to the nucleus of the solitary tract. However, corpus callosotomy has been proven to offer significantly better chances of seizure freedom compared with vagus nerve stimulation (58.0% versus 21.1% reduction in atonic seizures, respectively). If a focal area in the brain is generating severe seizures, it can sometimes be removed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108699", "title": "Alpha Cancri", "text": "Alpha Cancri\n\nAlpha Cancri (α Cancri, abbreviated Alpha Cnc, α Cnc), also named Acubens , is a star system in the constellation of Cancer.\n\n\"α Cancri\" (Latinised to \"Alpha Cancri\") is the star's Bayer designation.\n\nThe traditional name \"Acubens\" (Açubens) is derived from the Arabic , \"the claws\" A second name, Sertan , derives from the Arabic \"al-saraṭān\" 'the crab'. The International Astronomical Union Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) choose 'Acubens' as the proper name for this star.\n\nAlpha Cancri is a fourth-magnitude star with an apparent magnitude of 4.20, making it barely visible to the naked eye under good lighting conditions. Nevertheless, it is 23 times more luminous than the Sun. Its stellar classification is A5m. The distance of Alpha Cancri calculated from the Gaia Data Release 2 parallax is roughly 50 parsecs from Earth, or approximately 164 light years away.\n\nSince it is near the ecliptic, it can be occulted by the Moon and very rarely by planets.\n\nThe primary component, α Cancri A, is a white A-type main sequence dwarf with an apparent magnitude of +4.26. Its companion, α Cancri B, is an eleventh magnitude star. In the year 1836, its position angle was observed at 325 degrees with a separation from the main star α Cancri A of 11.3arcseconds.\n\nFrom studying its light curve during occultation, it is thought that α Cancri A may itself be a close binary, consisting of two stars with similar brightness and a separation of 0.1arcseconds.\n\nUSS Acubens (AKS-5) was a United States navy ship.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108707", "title": "Adam Hanuszkiewicz", "text": "Adam Hanuszkiewicz\n\nAdam Hanuszkiewicz (16 June 1924 – 4 December 2011) was a Polish actor and theatre director.\n\nHanuszkiewicz was born in Lwów, Poland. He died in Warsaw, aged 87.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108711", "title": "Beta Cancri", "text": "Beta Cancri\n\nBeta Cancri (β Cancri, abbreviated Beta Cnc, β Cnc), also named Tarf , is the brightest star in the zodiacal constellation of Cancer. It has an apparent visual magnitude of +3.5 and an absolute magnitude of −1.2. Based on parallax measurements obtained during the Hipparcos mission, it is approximately 290 light-years distant from the Sun. An exoplanet, designated Beta Cancri b, is believed to be orbiting the star.\n\nBeta Cancri has a companion listed and together they are designated WDS J08165+0911. As the primary, Beta Cancri bears the designation WDS J08165+0911A. The companion is designated WDS J08165+0911B.\n\n\"β Cancri\" (Latinised to \"Beta Cancri\") is the star's Bayer designation. WDS J08165+0911A is its designation in the Washington Double Star Catalog.\n\nThe star bore the traditional name of \"Al Tarf\" (anglicized as \"Altarf\"), which can be translated from the Arabic as \"end\" or \"edge\". In 2016, the IAU organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Tarf\" for Beta Cancri on 1 June 2018 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nBeta Cancri is an orange K-type giant, about 50 times the radius of the Sun. It is Barium star, a type of cool giant showing enhanced abundances of Barium. It is also suspected to vary slightly in brightness.\n\nThe companion is a red dwarf of the fourteenth magnitude. From its angular distance of 29 arcseconds, the companion's distance from Beta Cancri is estimated at some 2600 AU, with an orbital period of 76,000 years.\n\nIn 2014 evidence was presented of a planet orbiting Beta Cancri. Using radial velocity data from repeated observations of the star, the planet is estimated to have a minimum mass of approximately 7.8 times that of Jupiter, and an orbital period of 605 days.\n"}
{"id": "2108721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108721", "title": "Gamma Cancri", "text": "Gamma Cancri\n\nGamma Cancri (γ Cancri, abbreviated Gamma Cnc, γ Cnc) is a multiple star system in the constellation of Cancer.\n\nIt consists of a spectroscopic binary, designated Gamma Cancri A, and a single companion star, Gamma Cancri B. A's two components are themselves designated Gamma Cancri Aa (formally named Asellus Borealis , the traditional name of the system) and Ab.\n\nSince it is near the ecliptic, it can be occulted by the Moon and, very rarely, by planets.\n\n\"γ Cancri\" (Latinised to \"Gamma Cancri\") is the system's Bayer designation. The designations of the two constituents as \"Gamma Cancri A\" and \"B\", and those of \"A's\" components - \"Gamma Cancri Aa\" and \"Ab\" - derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).\n\nIt bore the traditional name \"Asellus Borealis\" (Latin for \"northern little donkey\"). In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name \"Asellus Borealis\" for the component Gamma Cancri Aa on 6 November 2016 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names. Together with Delta Cancri, it formed the \"Aselli\", flanking Praesepe.\n\nIn Chinese astronomy, \"Ghost\" () refers to an asterism consisting of Theta Cancri, Eta Cancri, Gamma Cancri and Delta Cancri. Gamma Cancri itself is known as the third star of Ghost ().\n\nGamma Cancri A presents as a white A-type subgiant with an apparent magnitude of +4.67. Located around 181 light-years from the Sun, it shines with a luminosity approximately 36 times greater and has a surface temperature of 9108 K.\n"}
{"id": "2108734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108734", "title": "Solange Chaput-Rolland", "text": "Solange Chaput-Rolland\n\nSolange Chaput-Rolland, (May 14, 1919 – November 1, 2001) was a Canadian journalist, author, lecturer, politician, and Senator.\n\nBorn in Montreal, the daughter of Émile Chaput and Rosalie Loranger, she received her education from the Couvent d'Outremont, the Sorbonne and the Institut Catholique de Paris. Her brother, Yves Chaput was the husband of Françoise Poliquin, daughter of Jean Poliquin, grandfather of Jean-Nicolas De Surmont.\n\nDuring the 1950s she worked as a journalist for the CBC with a young Jeanne Sauvé with whom she remained friends until Sauvé's death.\n\nIn 1979, she was elected to the National Assembly of Quebec in a by-election in the riding of Prevost. She was defeated in 1981.\n\nShe was appointed to the Senate in 1988 representing the senatorial division of Mille Isles, Quebec. She sat as a Progressive Conservative and retired in 1994.\n\nIn 1975, she was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. In 1985, she was made an Officer of the National Order of Quebec.\n\nIn 1941, she married André Rolland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108736", "title": "Rudy Baker", "text": "Rudy Baker\n\nRudy Baker (born 1898, date of death unknown), a Communist Party USA (CPUSA) official, is today best known for his role as head of the CPUSA's underground \"secret apparatus\". He succeeded to the position in 1938, after the removal of J. Peters.\n\nBaker was born in 1898 in Vukovar, Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia, probably under the name Rudolph Blum. Baker had little formal education, and emigrated to the United States with his family in 1909. He joined the Communist Party of the United States at its founding, in 1919. He went to Moscow and trained at the International Lenin School from 1927 to 1930. He became a member of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union during that period.\n\nBaker shows up in the Venona project decryptions of Soviet codes under the cover name \"SON\"; he may also be \"RUDI\". The identification comes from coded correspondence between the Comintern and the party in Russia's RTsKhIDNI archive (495-184), which contains dozens of messages from \"BROTHER\" in Moscow to \"FATHER\" and \"SON\" in the United States. Annotations on these messages identify BROTHER as Dimitrov and FATHER as the party General Secretary Earl Browder. In these messages, SON is the head of the party's covert arm or \"secret apparatus\", which Baker took over in mid-1938 after the defection of Whittaker Chambers. Notably, all of the Comintern messages to SON were sent after Baker visited Moscow in January 1939 to brief Comintern officials on the status of the party's \"secret apparatus\" (after Baker took over its operations).\n\nIn May 1942, General Pavel Fitin, the head of KGB foreign intelligence directorate states in a message to Dimitrov found in the Comintern Archives, \"We are forwarding a telegram we received from New York addressed to you from Rudy\"; this telegram is signed \"SON\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108739", "title": "Delta Cancri", "text": "Delta Cancri\n\nDelta Cancri (δ Cancri, abbreviated Delta Cnc, δ Cnc) is a double star about 180 light-years from the Sun in the constellation of Cancer.\n\nIts two main constituents are designated Delta Cancri A and B. A is itself a binary star whose components are Delta Cancri Aa (formally named Asellus Australis , the traditional name of the entire system) and Ab.\n\nThe star system is 0.08 degree north of the ecliptic, so it can be occulted by the Moon and more rarely by planets; it is occulted (eclipsed) by the sun from about 31 July to 2 August. Thus the star can be viewed the whole night, crossing the sky at the start of February.\n\n\"δ Cancri\" (Latinised to \"Delta Cancri\") is the system's Bayer designation. The designations of the two constituents \"Delta Cancri A\" and \"B\", and those of \"A's\" components - \"Delta Cancri Aa\" and \"Ab\" - derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).\n\nIt bore the traditional name \"Asellus Australis\" which is Latin for \"southern donkey colt\". In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name \"Asellus Australis\" for the component Delta Cancri Aa on 6 November 2016 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names. Together with Gamma Cancri, it formed the \"Aselli\", flanking Praesepe.\n\nAs \"Arkū-sha-nangaru-sha-shūtu\", which means \"the southeast star in the Crab\", it marked the 13th ecliptic station of the ancient Babylonians.\n\nIn Chinese astronomy, \"Ghost\" () refers to an asterism consisting of Theta Cancri, Eta Cancri, Gamma Cancri and Delta Cancri. Delta Cancri itself is known as the fourth star of Ghost ().\n\nDelta Cancri was involved in the first recorded occultation by Jupiter:\n\nDelta Cancri also marks the famous open star cluster Praesepe (or the Beehive Cluster, also known as Messier 44). In ancient times M44 was used as a weather gauge as the following Greek rhyme from Aratos' \"Prognostica\" reveals:\n\nThe meaning of this verse is that if Asellus Borealis or Gamma Cancris is hidden by clouds, the wind will be from the south and that situation will be reversed if Asellus Australis is obscured. There is some doubt however as to the accuracy of this as Allen notes: \"Our modern Weather Bureau would probably tell us that if one of these stars were thus concealed, the other also would be.\" (Allen, 1898)\n\nBut Delta Cancri also acts as more than just a dubious weather guide: it is a reliable signpost for finding the vividly red star X Cancri as Patrick Moore notes in his guidebook \"Stars of the Southern Skies\":\n\nDelta Cancri also marks the radiant of the Delta Cancrids meteor shower.\n\nIn 1876, the possibility of Delta Cancri having a companion star was proposed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108754", "title": "Zeta Cancri", "text": "Zeta Cancri\n\nZeta Cancri (ζ Cancri, abbreviated Zeta Cnc, ζ Cnc) is a multiple star system in the constellation of Cancer. It is approximately 83.4 light-years from Earth, and has a combined apparent magnitude of +4.67. Since it is near the ecliptic, it can be occulted by the Moon and, very rarely, by planets.\n\nThe system is constituted as follows:\n\n\"ζ Cancri\" (Latinised to \"Zeta Cancri\") is the system's Bayer designation; \"ζ¹ Cancri\" and \"ζ² Cancri\" those of its two constituents. The designations of the two constituents as \"ζ Cancri AB\" and \"C\", and those of their components - \"ζ Cancri A\", \"B\", \"Ca\", \"Cb\", \"Cb1\" and \"Cb2\" - derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).\n\nConsiderable confusion had developed concerning the catalogue identities of the three bright stars; correct correspondences were worked out by Griffin:\n\n\"Zeta Cancri\" bore the traditional name \"Tegmine\" (\"Tegmen\") \"the shell (of the crab)\". In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name \"Tegmine\" for the component \"Zeta¹ Cancri A\" on 12 September 2016 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Water Level\", refers to an asterism consisting of Zeta Cancri, 6 Canis Minoris, 11 Canis Minoris and 8 Cancri. Consequently, Zeta Cancri itself is known as (, ).\n\nZeta Cancri can be resolved as a binary star in small telescopes. Its binary nature was discovered in 1756 by Tobias Mayer. William Herschel resolved the two components that make up Zeta¹ Cancri in 1781. As early as 1831, John Herschel noticed perturbations in Zeta² Cancri's orbit around Zeta¹; this led Otto Wilhelm von Struve, in 1871, to postulate a fourth, unseen, component which orbited closely the visible member of Zeta². Later observations have resolved this fourth component and have indicated that there may be one or two more unobserved components.\n\nZeta¹ and Zeta² Cancri are 5.06 arcseconds apart. These two star systems orbit around their common centre of mass once every 1100 years. The radius is about 6.80.\n\nThe two components are both yellow-white main sequence dwarfs of spectral class F. The apparent magnitudes of A and B are +5.58 and +5.99, respectively. They are separated, as of 2008, by 1 arcsecond, requiring a large telescope to resolve them, but this separation will increase until the year 2020. They complete one orbit every 59.6 years. The estimated masses for the pair are 1.28 and 1.18 solar masses, respectively.\n\nZeta Cancri Ca is the brightest of the three components, having an apparent magnitude of +6.12. It appears to be a yellow G-type star, often reported as G5V, but now thought to be earlier, probably G0V. This star has around 1.15 solar masses. The tenth magnitude Zeta Cancri Cb is a close pair of red dwarfs. The separation between Ca and Cb is approximately 0.3 arcseconds, and their orbital period is 17 years.\n"}
{"id": "2108758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108758", "title": "Amnon Shamosh", "text": "Amnon Shamosh\n\nAmnon Shamosh (born 28 January 1929) is an Israeli author and poet.\n\nAmnon Shamosh was born in Aleppo, Mandatory Syria. In his childhood he immigrated to Mandatory Palestine and participated in the 1948 Arab–Israeli War in a Palmach unit. He studied at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He was a founder of kibbutz Ma'ayan Barukh, where he has resided ever since.\n\n\nShamosh also wrote the non-fiction book \"Haketer, the Story of the Aleppo Codex\".\n\nShamosh was awarded the President's Prize for Literature in 2001. He also got many different awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108765", "title": "Sebastian Ziani de Ferranti", "text": "Sebastian Ziani de Ferranti\n\nSebastian Pietro Innocenzo Adhemar Ziani de Ferranti (9 April 1864 – 13 January 1930) was a British electrical engineer and inventor.\n\nSebastian Ziani de Ferranti was born in Liverpool, England. His Italian father, Cesare, was a photographer (son of composer Marco Aurelio Zani de Ferranti) and his mother Juliana de Ferranti (née Scott) was a concert pianist. He was educated at Hampstead School, London; St. Augustine's College, Westgate-on-Sea; and University College London.\n\nHe married Gertrude Ruth Ince on 24 April 1888 and they had seven children together. Ferranti died on 13 January 1930 in Zurich, Switzerland. He was buried in the same grave as his parents and his daughter Yolanda at Hampstead Cemetery, London.\n\nHis grandson, Basil de Ferranti, was a Conservative politician who represented Morecambe and Lonsdale in the late fifties and early sixties.\n\nFerranti showed a remarkable talent for electrical engineering from his childhood. His first invention, at the age of 13, was an arc light for street lighting. Reportedly, around the age of 16, he built an electrical generator (that had a \"\"Zig-zag armature\"\") with the help of William Thomson (the future Lord Kelvin) and later patented the device (called the \"Ferranti Dynamo\"). He worked for Siemens Brothers at Charlton, London, and in 1882 he set up shop in London designing various electrical devices as the firm Ferranti, Thompson and Ince.\n\nIn the late 1880s, there was a debate within the industry about the transmission of electrical power, known as the war of the currents. Thomas Edison supported a direct current (DC) based system, largely due to his holding many key patents and having set up some power plants supplying DC power. The rival Westinghouse Electric Corporation supported an alternating current (AC) system.\n\nFerranti bet on AC early on, and was one of the few experts in this system in the UK. In 1887, the London Electric Supply Corporation (LESCo) hired Ferranti for the design of their power station at Deptford. He designed the building, the generating plant and the distribution system. On its completion in 1891, it was the first truly modern power station, supplying high-voltage AC power that was then \"stepped down\" for consumer use on each street. This basic system remains in use today around the world. One of the remaining supports of the generating hall of Deptford Power Station forms the frame of the sign at the Museum of Science and Industry in Manchester UK, home of the Ferranti Archives.\n\nS. Z. de Ferranti, the company set up by Ferranti in 1885 with Francis Ince and Charles Sparks as partners, became S. Z de Ferranti Ltd in 1890 and Ferranti Ltd in 1900, after resignation of Ince and Sparks. Ferranti Ltd would outlive its founder and develop the Ferranti Mark 1, the world's first commercially available general-purpose computer, in 1951. \n\nSebastian de Ferranti was President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers in 1910 and 1911, and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1927. He received an honorary doctorate from the University of Manchester in 1912. Ferranti was actively involved in the formation of the British Electrical and Allied Manufacturers Association (BEAMA) in 1911 and its first chairman, to 1913.\n\nIn 1932, the London Power Company commemorated Sebastian de Ferranti by naming a new 1,315 GRT coastal collier SS \"Ferranti\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108774", "title": "Subcloning", "text": "Subcloning\n\nIn molecular biology, subcloning is a technique used to move a particular DNA sequence from a \"parent vector\" to a \"destination vector\".\nSubcloning is not to be confused with molecular cloning, a related technique.\n\nRestriction enzymes are used to excise the gene of interest (the \"insert\") from the parent. The insert is purified in order to isolate it from other DNA molecules. A common purification method is gel isolation. The number of copies of the gene is then amplified using polymerase chain reaction (PCR).\n\nSimultaneously, the same restriction enzymes are used to digest (cut) the destination. The idea behind using the same restriction enzymes is to create complementary sticky ends, which will facilitate ligation later on. A phosphatase, commonly calf-intestinal alkaline phosphatase (CIAP), is also added to prevent self-ligation of the destination vector. The digested destination vector is isolated/purified.\n\nThe insert and the destination vector are then mixed together with DNA ligase. A typical molar ratio of insert genes to destination vectors is 3:1; by increasing the insert concentration, self-ligation is further decreased. After letting the reaction mixture sit for a set amount of time at a specific temperature (dependent upon the size of the strands being ligated; for more information see DNA ligase), the insert should become successfully incorporated into the destination plasmid.\n\nThe plasmid is often transformed into a bacterium like \"E. coli\". Ideally when the bacterium divides the plasmid should also be replicated. In the best case scenario, each bacterial cell should have several copies of the plasmid. After a good number of bacterial colonies have grown, they can be miniprepped to harvest the plasmid DNA.\n\nIn order to ensure growth of only transformed bacteria (which carry the desired plasmids to be harvested), a marker gene is used in the destination vector for selection. Typical marker genes are for antibiotic resistance or nutrient biosynthesis. So, for example, the \"marker gene\" could be for resistance to the antibiotic ampicillin. If the bacteria that were supposed to pick up the desired plasmid had picked up the desired gene then they would also contain the \"marker gene\". Now the bacteria that picked up the plasmid would be able to grow in ampicillin whereas the bacteria that did not pick up the desired plasmid would still be vulnerable to destruction by the ampicillin. Therefore, successfully transformed bacteria would be \"selected.\"\n\nIn this example, a gene from mammalian gene library will be subcloned into a bacterial plasmid (destination platform). The bacterial plasmid is a piece of circular DNA which contains regulatory elements allowing for the bacteria to produce a gene product (gene expression) if it is placed in the correct place in the plasmid. The production site is flanked by two restriction enzyme cutting sites \"A\" and \"B\" with incompatible sticky ends.\n\nThe mammalian DNA does not come with these restriction sites, so they are built in by overlap extension PCR. The primers are designed to put the restriction sites carefully, so that the coding of the protein is in-frame, and a minimum of extra amino acids is implanted on either side of the protein.\n\nBoth the PCR product containing the mammalian gene with the new restriction sites and the destination plasmid are subjected to restriction digestion, and the digest products are purified by gel electrophoresis.\n\nThe digest products, now containing compatible sticky ends with each other (but incompatible sticky ends with themselves) are subjected to ligation, creating a new plasmid which contains the background elements of the original plasmid with a different insert.\n\nThe plasmid is transformed into bacteria and the identity of the insert is confirmed by DNA sequencing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108775", "title": "Jürgen Vsych", "text": "Jürgen Vsych\n\nJürgen Vsych () is the writer-director of the films \"Pay Your Rent, Beethoven\", which won the Prince's Trust Award, \"Son for Sail,\" \"Ophelia Learns to Swim,\" and \"Tyrannosaurus Tex.\" Her films have been shown in forty-nine film festivals in thirty countries. Vsych's journal was included in the book \"\".\n\nVsych is the author of \"The Wroughten Director\" and the historical novel \"Captain Death.\"\n\nWroughten Movies, Vsych's production company, derives from the word \"wrought\", and is also a wordplay on \"rot.\" The company's motto is, \"Not the same old rot.\"\n\nIn her autobiography, \"The Wroughten Director\", Vsych writes: \"When I was learning to read, I tried sounding out the name of a sign I saw on Venice Boulevard, 'WROUGHT IRON.' Mom said it was pronounced 'rot,' and it meant that the iron was very good, very well-crafted. Later that afternoon, I went to nursery school and painted with Matilda Gomez. When Matilda painted a really good picture of a boat, I said, 'That's wroughten.' She said, 'It is NOT!' and stabbed me in the eye with her paintbrush.\".\n\n\"The Woman Director: The Adventures of a Really Independent Filmmaker Ages 6–36\" by Jürgen Vsych is the first autobiography of an American female film director. It is only the third memoir ever written by a woman director (the other two are by Alice Guy Blache and Leni Riefenstahl), and it is the first written in English. It is based on Vsych's 17,256-paged diary and describes how she graduated from making one-minute Super 8 films financed with baby-sitting money and edited with her father's toenail clippers, to writing, directing & producing the 35mm feature film \"Ophelia Learns to Swim\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108776", "title": "FernGully: The Last Rainforest", "text": "FernGully: The Last Rainforest\n\nFernGully: The Last Rainforest is a 1992 animated musical fantasy film, directed by Bill Kroyer and scripted by Jim Cox. Adapted from the book of the same name by Diana Young, the film is an Australian and American venture produced by Kroyer Films, Inc., Youngheart Productions, FAI Films and 20th Century Fox.\n\nThe film features the voices of Jonathan Ward, Samantha Mathis, Tim Curry, Christian Slater, and Robin Williams. \"FernGully\" is set in an Australian rainforest inhabited by fairies including Crysta, who accidentally shrinks a young logger named Zak to the size of a fairy. Together, they rally the fairies and the animals of the rainforest to protect their home from the loggers and a malevolent pollution entity, Hexxus.\n\nThe film was released to mainly positive reviews, and was also generally considered a moderate financial success at both the box office and in home video sales. In 1998, it was followed by a direct-to-video sequel \"\", though none of the original voice cast reprised their roles.\n\nCrysta is a fairy of curious nature who lives in FernGully, a pristine rainforest free from human interference. The fairies of FernGully once lived in harmony with humans, but believe them to have gone extinct after having been driven away by a dark spirit named Hexxus. Crysta is the apprentice of Magi, a motherly-figure fairy who imprisoned Hexxus in a tree. One day Crysta explores a new part of the forest and meets Batty, a bat who claims to have been experimented on by humans, giving him a cocky and unstable personality. However, fairies refuse to believe him, except for Crysta, who volunteers to investigate the situation. She sees Zak, a young lumberjack whom Crysta accidentally shrinks when she tries to save him from being crushed by a falling tree, though does not know how to restore him to normal size.\n\nThe tree that Hexxus is imprisoned in is cut down by Tony and Ralph, Zak's superiors. Hexxus quickly begins to regain his powers by feeding on pollution. He manipulates humans to drive to FernGully. In FernGully, Zak meets Pips, a fairy envious of Zak's relationship with Crysta. Zak begins to fall in love with Crysta, but hides the true reason that the humans had returned. When the signs of Hexxus's resurrection begin to manifest themselves in poisoned trees and rivers, he finally admits that humans are destroying the forest. The fairies mount an attempt to defend their homes, but knowing their fight is hopeless, Zak convinces Batty to aid him in stopping the machine before it destroys them. When Zak makes his presence known to Tony and Ralph, Hexxus takes over the machine and begins to wildly destroy the forest.\n\nMagi sacrifices herself to give the fairies a chance, and she tells Crysta to remember everything she's learned. Zak manages to stop the machine, depriving Hexxus the source of his power, but he manifests himself within the oil in the machine and begins to ignite the forest ablaze. Crysta seemingly sacrifices herself by allowing herself to be devoured by Hexxus and all seems lost until he begins to sprout limbs and leaves like a tree. Pips and the rest of the fairies rally to the powers they have been given, which causes the seed that Crysta fed him to start growing wildly. Hexxus and the machine are both simultaneously imprisoned by the newly grown tree at the very border of FernGully which bursts into bloom. Crysta appears after the fight, having survived her ordeal and successfully succeeded Magi as a magical fairy. She gives Zak a seed, begging him to remember everything that has transpired and she sadly restores him to his human size. Remembering the seed in his hand, Zak promises to remember his adventure, and buries the seed in the soil before telling Tony and Ralph that things need to change as they leave the forest behind. The seed sprouts new growth for FernGully, as Crysta follows Pips with Batty behind her.\n\nIn the book \"Disney, Pixar, and the Hidden Messages of Children's Films\", M. Keith Booker states that \"FernGully\" \"focuses on the theme of the destruction of the Earth’s rainforests. In this case the rainforest is located near Mount Warning, on the eastern coast of Australia, but the theme is global and the specific location is not particularly emphasized\". Despite the environmental theme Booker stated the film was \"somewhat vague in its explanation of the dire consequences of rainforest destruction and it addresses the economic impetus behind this destruction hardly at all\"; the fact that the rainforest was saved at the end of the film \"diminishes the urgency of its environmentalist message\" and that the character of Hexxus \"displaces the real blame for environmental destruction from its real perpetrators onto nonexistent supernatural perpetrators, further diluting the political message.\" The character of Batty was said to introduce \"the secondary theme of animal experimentation, though with a light touch that presents this potentially horrifying motif as essentially humorous.\"\n\nIn the book \"Eco-Impacts and the Greening of Postmodernity\", Tom Jagtenberg and David McKie comment that radical views of ecology flourished in the film, perhaps because it was \"aimed at a younger generation ... and belong[s] to relatively discredited genres\". As Zak is shrunk to fairy size and integrated into the fairy world, more similarities rather than differences are implied with the nonhuman characters. Crysta is said to defeat the evil Hexxus \"in the manner of classic western genre heroes\", though with the key difference that her weapon is a seed rather than a revolver, allowing the produce of nature to share the heroic role with her.\n\nProducer Wayne Young said his passion for the environment was his motivation for making the film, saying the film was \"blatantly environmental, although we have gone to a lot of trouble to avoid preaching. We also want it to be viewed as entertainment.\" The inspiration for \"FernGully\" came from stories written by his former wife, Diana Young. Diana first wrote the story of \"FernGully\" 15 years before the film's release. Wayne said the couple planned a film adaptation for five years, then spent \"seven years of dreaming and hustling, followed by another three years of production\". Wayne stated their dream was not possible until the success of Walt Disney Feature Animation's 1989 film \"The Little Mermaid\", which brought popularity back to animation. Hand drawn scenes in the film were complemented by computer animation, which was used to create elements such as flocks of birds that would have taken much longer to animate traditionally. Kroyer states 40,000 frames of computer-generated graphics were used in the film, and that the use of such animation halved the production time. Most of the film's $24 million budget was spent on the animation and the soundtrack.\n\nThe film marked Robin Williams's first animation role, with the character Batty Koda being created specifically for him. Williams provided 14 hours' worth of improvised lines for the part which had been originally conceived as an eight-minute role. Director Bill Kroyer was so impressed with the voice work he ended up tripling the screen time given to the character. Williams went on to provide the critically applauded voice of the Genie in Disney's \"Aladdin\" later the same year.\n\nThe voice cast of \"FernGully\" agreed with the film's message, and worked for scale wages. The film marked the first time that both members of Cheech & Chong had worked together in six years, with the two voicing beetle brothers Stump and Root. Cheech Marin said \"It was just like old times, but we only worked for two or three hours, had a pizza and split.\"\n\nThe soundtrack album was released by MCA Records. Peter Fawthrop from Allmusic gave the album three out of five stars, commenting that the songs were \"lighter and more pop-driven than Disney soundtracks from the '90s, but they are not childish.\" The score of \"FernGully\", which was composed and produced by Alan Silvestri, was also released for sale. It consisted of 14 tracks and ran just under 44 minutes in length.\n\n\"FernGully\" was released in the United States on April 10, 1992 and in Australia on September 17. The film was shown at the United Nations General Assembly on Earth Day, April 22, 1992.\n\n\"FernGully\" grossed US$32,710,894 worldwide, including $24,650,296 from the United States, and A$3.4 million in Australia. The box office performance was described as a moderate success though it was considered to have done less well than expected, possibly due to its ecological message. Joseph Gelmis from \"Newsday\", however, described \"FernGully\"s box office performance as \"dismal\", though noted it was the most successful recent non-Disney animated film. Co-executive producer Jaime Willett and Josh Baran who worked on the film's marketing both spoke of the difficulties of getting attention to an animated film that was not produced by Disney, with Willett stating box office revenue would have at least doubled by simply having the headline \"Walt Disney presents\" on the film. \"USA Today\" noted that the combined box office gross of \"FernGully\" and the five other non-Disney animated films released in 1992 did not even equal a third of the gross for Disney's 1991 film \"Beauty and the Beast\".\n\n\"FernGully\" received generally positive reviews. The film holds an approval rating of 63% at Rotten Tomatoes based on 16 reviews. Film critic Roger Ebert gave it three out of four stars, saying the film was visually \"very pleasing,\" told a \"useful lesson\", \"and although the movie is not a masterpiece it's pleasant to watch for its humor and sweetness.\" Hollis Chacona from \"The Austin Chronicle\" added that the film was \"funny, pretty, touching, scary, magical stuff.\" Janet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" had an unfavorable impression of the film, describing it as \"[a]n uncertain blend of sanctimonious principles and Saturday-morning cartoon aesthetics\". According to Wayne Young, Jeffrey Katzenberg, then-chairman of Walt Disney Studios, called the producers of \"FernGully\" to tell them that he loved the film. Metacritic gave the film a score of 67 based on 15 reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nWayne Young stated that portions of the film's gross would be donated to Greenpeace, the Rainforest Foundation Fund, and the Sierra Club, as well as a special fund benefiting environmental projects worldwide that was administered by the Smithsonian Institution, though he did not disclose exact figures. The film also inspired a 1992 video game by Capstone Software and IntraCorp called \"The FernGully Computerized Coloring Book\". In 1998 the film was followed by a direct-to-video sequel, \"\".\n\nFAI Films, which only ever produced \"FernGully\" and its sequel, was acquired by HIH Insurance in 1998. HIH closed in 2001. In June 2012, administrators for HIH placed advertisements trying to sell the rights to both films.\n\nSome reviewers have commented that the 2009 James Cameron film \"Avatar\" plagiarized thematic and plot elements from \"FernGully\", though others have stated it is simply one of many films that \"Avatar\" is similar to, or have dismissed the comparison entirely.\n\nFour months after the theatrical release, 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment, under its previous name \"Fox Video\", released \"FernGully\" on VHS and LaserDisc on August 26, 1992. Sales were strong, with approximately five million units sold by 1998, including 125,000 in Australia.\n\nFox re-released the film on DVD in 2001. Christopher Simons from DVD Talk gave the 2001 DVD three-and-a-half stars out of five for both audio and video, though only one star for special features, noting that the only extras included were trailers for other films. A \"Family Fun Edition\" DVD was released in 2005. Special features included commentary with director Bill Kroyer, art director Ralph Eggleston, and coordinating art director Susan Kroyer, several featurettes including the original featurette from 1992, the music video for \"If I'm Gonna Eat Somebody (It Might As Well Be You)\" by Tone Loc, as well as trailers and TV spots. Scott Weinberg from \"DVD Talk\" gave this version four stars out of five for both audio and video, and also four stars for special features.\n\nFor its 20th anniversary, \"FernGully\" was released on Blu-ray Disc on March 6, 2012, containing the same special features as the \"Family Fun Edition\". Aaron Peck from \"High Def Digest\" gave it three out of five stars for video quality, four stars for audio and three-and-a-half stars for extras. Brian Orndorf from Blu-ray.com gave the release three out of five stars for video quality, three-and-a-half stars for audio and four stars for special features.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108784", "title": "AIK IF", "text": "AIK IF\n\nAllmänna Idrottsklubben Ishockeyförening (abbreviated \"AIK Hockey\", or simply \"AIK\"), is the ice hockey department of sports club Allmänna Idrottsklubben based in Stockholm, Sweden. Since 2014 AIK's men's team compete in HockeyAllsvenskan, the second tier of ice hockey in Sweden, following a four-year spell in the top flight, the SHL. The women's team competes in Riksserien, the highest division of women's ice hockey. AIK's home games are mainly played at Hovet, which seats 8,050 spectators, though some high-profile games may be played at the Ericsson Globe which has a larger capacity of 13,850.\n\nIn the team's 98-year history, AIK has played 66 seasons in Sweden's top division, 27 of which in the SHL. They have won the Le Mat Trophy as Swedish champions in ice hockey seven times (in 1934, 1935, 1938, 1946, 1947, 1982, and 1984) and have been runners-up an additional six times (in 1930, 1936, 1940, 1968, 1978, and 1981).\n\nAIK's ice hockey section was formed in 1921 by Anton Johansson. The team's first competition was a non-championship series, Träningsserien, which they won. However, just two years later, in 1923, the section was shut down, only to be re-founded in 1925.\n\nAIK participated in its first season in the former Elitserien in 1930–31. They finished in fifth place and qualified for the playoffs, where they lost to Södertälje SK in the semifinal. The following season, AIK finished in top place in the league, but again lost in the semifinal to Södertälje. AIK knocked out their fierce rival, Djurgårdens IF, en route to clinching their first championship in 1934. In the final, AIK met Hammarby IF, defeating them by a score of 1–0.\n\nOver the years, AIK would face Hammarby many times in championship battles. In 1935, AIK defended the trophy with another final win against Hammarby, this time with a score of 2–1. In 1936, Hammarby beat AIK when the teams both made it to the final. The first game ended 1–1, and in the second leg, Hammarby won 5–1. In 1938, AIK won their third championship with a 2–0 win in the final against Hammarby. In 1940, IK Göta would reach the final, instead of Hammarby, to meet AIK. AIK lost the final 1–4. It would take four years until AIK returned to the final, with a chance to win the Le Mat Trophy, in 1945. However, AIK lost in the final to Södertälje, but won the championship in the two following years.\n\nAfter these successful years, AIK would yo-yo between the new first-tier league Division I and the second-tier league Division II from 1954 to 1960. In 1960, AIK entered the highest division again, but it would be almost two decades until the team would make another final. During this period, their best result came in the 1965–66 season, when they reached the quarterfinal.\n\nIn 1978, AIK met Brynäs IF in the semifinals. In Gävle, AIK lost 2–3, which put pressure on AIK's side in the second leg. 9,155 supporters at Hovet saw AIK crush Brynäs 8–0, necessitating a third game, to be played at a neutral arena, Scandinavium. AIK won 3–2 and reached the final against Skellefteå AIK, who had won both semifinal games against Modo. In the final against AIK, Skellefteå won two of the three games and received the gold medals.\n\nAfter two disappointing consecutive seasons, AIK's golden era began. The team finished in second place in the 1980–81 Elitserien season and made the playoffs. Västra Frölunda IF were their opponents in the semifinals, where AIK easily won 6–3 and 5–1. Skellefteå AIK were seeking to again join AIK in the final. But Färjestads BK won two of three games against them and instead Färjestad reached the final. Färjestad showed strength in the final games and won three out of four games; AIK became the second best team once again.\n\nAIK finished in third place in the following season, eight points behind the winners, Färjestad. AIK faced Färjestad in the semifinals. In Karlstad, AIK won 5–4 and had a great opportunity to qualify for another final game. At home at Hovet, AIK treated their supporters to a 4–0 win. The other team to reach the final was IF Björklöven, who finished in second in Elitserien. Four games were about to be played. AIK lost the first 0–2, but the following two games ended with AIK winning 3–2 and 4–3. The team now had a chance to win the championship at Hovet. Björklöven, though, took their last chance and won 4–2. The final fifth leg was played in Scandinavium in Gothenburg. AIK won 3–2 and became the Swedish champions for the first time in over 30 years. The following season, Färjestad exacted their revenge in the semifinals by knocking out AIK with two wins to one.\n\nBut it wouldn't take long for the team and their fans to celebrate once again. AIK finished first in the 1983–84 Elitserien season, ahead of Djurgården, Björklöven and Södertälje. In the semifinals against Södertälje, AIK won the final two games 5–3 and 4–3. Awaiting AIK in the best-of-three finals were Djurgården, this being the first and thus far only time that these two Stockholm rivals met in a Swedish Championship final. AIK won the first game 5–2 and continued on with a 2–0 win in the second leg. The final game ended 4–1 to AIK, who were thus crowned 1984 Swedish Champions, their seventh title, and also their most recent.\n\nThe success of the 1983–84 season was immediately followed by disappointment, with the club failing to make the playoffs following an eighth-place finish. This was just the beginning however, as the following year, AIK finished 10th, and were relegated to Division 1. This visit to the second tier would be short, with the team finishing a perfect first in their Division 1 group, with an 18–0–0 record, and then finishing first in continuation league Allsvenskan, winning promotion back to Elitserien.\n\nIn Elitserien, the playoffs now included quarter finals, where AIK in 1988 won against Djurgården. However, Färjestad knocked out AIK in the semifinals.\n\nIn the 1992–93 season, AIK finished last in the first round and were sent down to Allsvenskan after Christmas. AIK finished fourth in Allsvenskan and had to win a best-of-three playoff series to keep their Elitserien hopes alive. But AIK lost two games against Hammarby and were relegated to Division 1.\n\nAIK made it short in Division 1. The team won the Eastern Division and reached Allsvenskan, where they finished on third place and qualified for the playoffs to the Kvalserien. Whilst there, AIK knocked out Skellefteå AIK and joined the final Kvalserien. AIK headed first-placed Bodens IK in the last game and had to beat them by three goals to be promoted to Elitserien. In a remarkable and among the AIK supporters historical game, AIK won against Boden 3–0. AIK's goaltender Rolf Ridderwall saved a penalty shot in the final minutes, which led AIK back to Elitserien.\n\nAIK didn't reach the playoffs in neither the 1994–95 nor 1995–96 season. However, the following season, they made it to the semifinals, after having knocked out Djurgården in the quarterfinals. Luleå HF, though, won three games out of five in the semifinals.\n\nIn 1998, AIK once again had to qualify in order to keep playing in Elitserien. This time the team showed their qualities by winning the five entering games and kept their Elitserien spot. The two following seasons AIK missed the playoffs.\n\nIn the 2000–01 Elitserien season, AIK played in their last playoff series in that league before their relegation. The team were knocked out by Djurgården in the quarterfinals after having won just one of five games. The following season AIK finished on eleventh place and played in Kvalserien. AIK didn't finish among the promoted teams and were thus relegated to Allsvenskan.\n\nAIK would spend the rest of the decade in divisions below Elitserien. In the team's two seasons in Allsvenskan before being relegated down to Division I, AIK made it to the Kvalserien both years but failed to qualify back to Elitserien both times. After finishing fifth in SuperAllsvenskan in the 2003–04 season, AIK were relegated to the third-tier league Division 1 due to their financial difficulties. AIK finished first in their division the following season and had their chance to qualify for Allsvenskan. Because of the NHL lockout, AIK was strengthened by NHL players Mattias Norström and Georges Laraque. AIK won their Allsvenskan qualifier and were promoted back to Allsvenskan, together with Nybro Vikings IF who finished second.\n\nAIK started a massive effort to return to Elitserien in the 2008–09 season, one of the reasons being financial problems. Former Tre Kronor head coach Roger Melin was appointed, and NHL defenceman Dick Tärnström and Elitserien players such as Christopher Heino-Lindberg and Per Savilahti-Nagander joined the club.\n\nWith a second-place finish in HockeyAllsvenskan the following season, AIK qualified for the 2009 Kvalserien, where they finished in third place, just three points behind second placed Rögle BK. With another second-place finish the following season, AIK once again joined the Kvalserien. With only one game left against Växjö Lakers Hockey at Hovet, AIK were on the second and last Elitserien spot with only one point ahead of the third placed team Rögle BK. AIK won the game 2–0 and returned to the top-tier league Elitserien after eight years.\n\nAIK's first season in Elitserien in nine years was a major success. The team were expected by many hockey experts to be forced to play in the Kvalserien qualification for Elitserien, but the team managed to capture the 8th and last playoff spot and thus reached the playoffs. AIK's starting goaltender Viktor Fasth contributed greatly to this success and received the Honken Trophy award as a result. In the playoffs the team went on to beat regular season champions HV71 4–0 in the quarterfinals. In the semifinals, AIK met Färjestads BK, who finished second in the regular season. Färjestad knocked out AIK from the playoffs, beating AIK 4–0 in the semifinals.\n\nIn the 2011–12 season, AIK improved and finished 7th and once again qualified for the playoffs. Richard Gynge captured the Håkan Loob Trophy by scoring 28 goals, and Robert Rosén won the scoring league with 60 points (21 goals, 39 assists). Viktor Fasth also won the Honken Trophy for the second consecutive year. Just like last year, AIK were chosen to meet the regular-season champions, Luleå HF, in the quarterfinals. AIK eliminated Luleå in five games and advanced to the semifinals for the second consecutive year, where they would face Skellefteå AIK. AIK were once again eliminated in the semifinals, this time in seven games.\n\nHead coach Roger Melin and assistant coach Gunnar Persson left the club after the 2011–12 season. In replacement, Per-Erik Johnsson was acquired as AIK's new head coach while Mats Lindgren and Anders Hultin became new assistant coaches.\n\nIn November 2009, AIK were invited to join the Kontinental Hockey League (KHL). The agreement would have let AIK join the KHL in the 2010–11 season. AIK organized a meeting with the club's supporters where the members would make their decision through voting. However, the Swedish Ice Hockey Association (SIHA) declined AIK's request to join the KHL.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108786", "title": "Alpha Aquarii", "text": "Alpha Aquarii\n\nAlpha Aquarii (α Aquarii, abbreviated Alpha Aqr, α Aqr), officially named Sadalmelik , is a single star in the constellation of Aquarius. The apparent visual magnitude of 2.94 makes this the second-brightest star in Aquarius. Based upon parallax measurements made during the Hipparcos mission, it is located at a distance of roughly from the Sun.\n\nIt forms the primary or 'A' component of a double star designated WDS J22058-0019 (the secondary or 'B' component is UCAC2 31789179).\n\n\"α Aquarii\" (Latinised to \"Alpha Aquarii\") is the star's Bayer designation. WDS J22058-0019 A is its designation in the Washington Double Star Catalog.\n\nIt bore the traditional name \"Sadalmelik\", which derived from an Arabic expression سعد الملك (\"sa‘d al-malik\"), meaning \"Luck of the king\". The name \"Rucbah\" had also been applied to this star; though it shared that name with Delta Cassiopeiae. It is only one of two stars with ancient proper names to lie within a degree of the celestial equator. The origin of the Arabic name is lost to history. In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Sadalmelik\" for Alpha Aquarii (WDS J22058-0019 A) on 21 August 2016, and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names (Delta Cassiopeiae was given the name \"Ruchbah\").\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Rooftop (asterism)\", refers to an asterism consisting of Alpha Aquarii, Theta Pegasi and Epsilon Pegasi. Consequently, the Chinese name for Alpha Aquarii itself is (, ).\n\nWith an age of 53 million years, Alpha Aquarii has evolved into a supergiant with a stellar classification of G2 Ib. It has 5.1 times as much mass as the Sun and has expanded to around 53 times the Sun's radius. It is radiating 2,100 times as much luminosity as the Sun from its outer atmosphere at an effective temperature of 5,383 K. At this heat, the star glows with the yellow hue of a G-type star. Examination of this star with the Chandra X-ray Observatory shows it to be significantly X-ray deficient compared to G-type main sequence stars. This deficit is a common feature of early G-type giant stars.\n\nThe visual companion (UCAC2 31789179) has an apparent visual magnitude of approximately 12.2. It is at an angular separation of 110.4 arcseconds from Alpha Aquarii along a position angle of 40°.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108788", "title": "Diary of Dreams", "text": "Diary of Dreams\n\nDiary of Dreams is a German darkwave band. The lead singer and founding member Adrian Hates has produced most of the albums by himself or with minimal help from others. He rarely uses a full band, except when on tour.\n\nAdrian Hates is a classically trained guitarist and pianist who started out as the guitarist for Garden of Delight. He initiated the Diary of Dreams project in the late 1980s, taking the name from one of his early classical guitar compositions, \"Tagebuch der Träume.\" The first album, \"Cholymelan\", appeared in 1994 on the Dion Fortune label.\n\nEncouraged by this success, Hates formed his own label called Accession Records and released a series of albums over the following years, building a loyal fanbase each step of the way. The second album \"End of Flowers\" was released in 1996, expanding on the darkwave sound of the debut. \"Bird Without Wings\" followed a year later, whilst the more experimental work \"Psychoma?\" arrived in 1998.\n\nThe first sign of consolidation came in 1999, when a compilation album \"Moments of Bloom\" appeared, containing two reworked tracks from each album. The next two albums \"One of 18 Angels\" and \"Freak Perfume\" (plus its companion EP \"PaniK Manifesto\") made greater use of electronic rhythms, resulting in greater club play and wider recognition for the band.\n\nTheir 2004 \"Nigredo\" (a concept album inspired by a mythology the band designed themselves) saw a move back towards the more subtle, sparse concepts of old, but still featuring bursts of their more recent, dance-oriented sound. Songs from the Nigredo tour were later released on the live CD \"Alive\" and the companion DVD \"Nine In Numbers\". In 2005, the EP \"Menschfeind\" was released. The next full album \"Nekrolog 43\" came in 2007, offering a greater variety of moods and concepts than previous works.\n\nThe ninth album entitled \"(if)\" was released on 13 March 2009. On March 26, 2010, Hates released \"A Collection Of...\" which is a best-of compilation album. On November 12, 2010, the single \"Echo in Me\" from the upcoming album \"\" was released. On August 26, 2011, the album arrived in Europe in four different versions. The US release date was September 11, 2011.\n\nOn March 14, 2014, the studio album \"Elegies in Darkness\" was released.\n\nHates has claimed to have been influenced, both lyric wise and artwork wise, by the German 1909-1935 expressionism and the \"beauty of ugliness\" in the course of his work.\n\nDiary of Dreams announced for 2019 a brief and rare USA tour: Hell in Eden, with dates in May 2019.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108791", "title": "Beta Aquarii", "text": "Beta Aquarii\n\nBeta Aquarii (β Aquarii, abbreviated Beta Aqr, β Aqr) is a star in the constellation of Aquarius. Based upon parallax measurements obtained during the Hipparcos mission, it is approximately 540 light-years (165 parsecs) from the Sun. The primary or 'A' component is officially named Sadalsuud , the traditional name for the system.\n\n\"β Aquarii\" (Latinised to \"Beta Aquarii\") is the star's Bayer designation.\n\nIt bore the traditional name \"Sadalsuud\", from an Arabic expression سعد السعود (\"sa‘d al-su‘ūd\"), the \"luck of lucks\". Other spellings that were sometimes encountered were \"Sad es Saud\", \"Sadalsund\", and \"Saad el Sund\". In the catalogue of stars in the \"Calendarium of Al Achsasi Al Mouakket\", this star was designated \"Nir Saad al Saaoud\", which was translated into Latin as \"Lucida Fortunæ Fortunarum\" (rather identic with R.H. Allen), meaning \"the brightest of luck of lucks\". The International Astronomical Union Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) has approved the name \"Sadalsuud\" for the primary or 'A' component.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Emptiness (asterism)\", refers to an asterism consisting of Beta Aquarii and Alpha Equulei. Consequently, the Chinese name for Beta Aquarii itself is (, ).\n\n\"Sadalsuud\" is found in Hindu texts as \"Kalpeny\" and, in the context of the ancient Indian system of astronomy, Jyotisha Veda, is located in the 23rd Nakshatra Shravishthā, a lunar mansion which is ruled by Eight vasus - the \"\"deities of earthly abundance\"\" . On the Euphrates, \"Sadalsuud\" was known as \"Kakkab Nammax\", the Star of Mighty Destiny; that may have given origin to the title of the manzil, as well as to the astrologers' name for it — \"Fortuna Fortunarum\".\n\nβ Aquarii is the brightest star in Aquarius with an apparent magnitude of 2.87 and a stellar classification of G0 Ib. Since 1943, the spectrum of this star has served as one of the stable anchor points by which other stars are classified. The mass of this star is about 6.0 to 6.5 times the mass of the Sun, but it is emitting roughly 2,300 times the Sun's luminosity implying a radius that is 48 times that of the Sun. It has an estimated age of 60 million years; old enough for a star of this mass to evolve into a supergiant. The estimated effective temperature of the star's outer envelope is about 5,700 K, giving it the characteristic yellow hue of G-type stars.\n\nX-ray emissions from the corona of this star have been detected using the Chandra X-ray Observatory; among the first such detections of X-rays for a G-type supergiant. A secondary X-ray source discovered near Beta Aquarii probably has an extragalactic origin. This star belongs to a group of three intermediate mass stars with a space velocity that is carrying them perpendicular to the plane of the galaxy. The other members of this grouping are Alpha Aquarii and Eta Pegasi.\n\nβ Aquarii appears to be a single star to the naked eye, but when viewed with a telescope is seen to have two faint optical companions. The first has an apparent magnitude of 11.0. In 1947, the position angle was observed at 321 degrees with a separation from the Beta Aquarii of 35.4 arcseconds. The second star has a magnitude of 11.6. Its position angle is 186 degrees with a separation from Beta Aquarii of 57.2 arcseconds. As of 2008, there is no definitive evidence that the three stars form a ternary star system, and Gaia Data Release 2 shows the two companions to be around twice the distance of β Aquarii. All three stars have very different proper motions.\n\nIn the context of older worldviews (i.e. Egyptian, Persian and Islamic mythology), Sadalsuud relates to the rising of the Sun when winter has passed (March) and the season of gentle, continuous rain has begun. Hence the myth of \"\"luck\"\" or \"\"good fortune\"\" was seen as closely aligned with the essence of spring itself, the burgeoning of new life, and by extension agriculture, which in all societies is the very foundation of prosperity or \"\"good fortune\"\". This mythological view of \"\"the luck of the lucks\"\" also belongs to the 22d Manzil (Arabic Lunar Mansion), which included the two stars Xi Aquarii (Bunda) and 46 Capricorni.\n\nβ and ξ Aquarii also constitute the Persian lunar mansion Bunda and the similar Coptic mansion Upuineuti, the meaning of which is \"\"the Foundation\"\".\n\nIn Chinese mythology, β Aqr alone marks the sieu (Chinese Lunar Mansion) Heu, Hiu, or Hü, \"\"the Void\"\", anciently Ko, the central one of the seven sieu which, taken together, were known as Heung Wu, the Black Warrior, in the northern quarter of the sky. As such, Sadalsuud is an expression of the feminine archetype, the Yin or \"\"Void\"\" (Cosmic Mother), from which, many cultures have believed, creation itself (birth) emanates.\n"}
{"id": "2108795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108795", "title": "Theta Aquarii", "text": "Theta Aquarii\n\nTheta Aquarii (θ Aquarii, abbreviated Theta Aqr, θ Aqr), officially named Ancha (distinguish Ankaa, with the same pronunciation), is a star in the equatorial constellation of Aquarius. Visible to the naked eye at apparent magnitude 4.175, it is located at a distance of around from the Sun. Since it is near the ecliptic it can be occulted by the Moon, or very rarely by planets.\n\n\"θ Aquarii\" (Latinised to \"Theta Aquarii\") is the star's Bayer designation.\n\nIt bore the traditional name \"Ancha\"; Medieval Latin for \"the haunch\". In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Ancha\" for this star on 12 September 2016, and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Weeping\", refers to an asterism consisting of Theta Aquarii and Rho Aquarii. Consequently, the Chinese name for Theta Aquarii itself is (, ). Possibly, the name \"Lei\", meaning \"tears (weeping)\" in Chinese, derives from the Chinese name for this star.\n\nAncha belongs to the spectral class G8 with a luminosity class of III–IV suggesting that, at an age of 437 million years, this star is part way between the subgiant and giant stages of its evolution. Estimates of the star's mass range from 2.39 to 2.78 times the Sun's mass, with a radius of about 12 times that of the Sun. It is radiating from 72 to 83 times as much luminosity as the Sun from its enlarged outer envelope at an effective temperature of 4,864 K. At this heat, the star glows with the yellow hue of a G-type star.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108796", "title": "Tai Collins", "text": "Tai Collins\n\nTanquil \"Tai\" Lisa Collins (born 1962 in Roanoke, Virginia) is a model, actress, screenwriter, philanthropist, and former Miss Virginia USA (1983).\n\nShe is the creator and Executive Producer of the television series \"SAF3\" (pronounced \"Safe\"), a first-run hour long syndicated series airing in 66 countries worldwide from 2013-2018 and currently (2020) streaming on Amazon Prime. The action drama is about a division of the Malibu Fire Department consisting of men and women who serve in the field of Sea, Air, Fire Emergency. She is one of the few women in television to create and executive produce their own series.\n\nHer television credits include writing for and acting on \"Baywatch\". She also wrote \"NYPD Blue\", \"Poltergeist: The Legacy\", \"Fame LA\", \"The Pretender\", and \"She Spies\". Her feature film \"Finding Home\" won an Angel Award for \"Best Drama\" at the 2013 Monaco International Film Festival.\n\nCollins is the co-founder and Executive Director of A Chance for Children Foundation. Founded in 1992, the foundations mission is to empower at-risk youth.\n\nCollins was honored in 1999 with a humanitarian award alongside Kofi Annan and Al Gore. In 2001, she received a Resolution by the Assembly of the State of California for her on-going work with \"at risk\" youth in South Los Angeles. W.O.M.E.N. of Los Angeles honored her with their first Lynne Weaver Mentoring Award in 2005. In 2010 her lifetime work was honored when she was invited by the United Nations to be a part of the Women in the World Making Change Summit. In 2011, she received numerous recognitions including; a Commendation from the City of Los Angeles for her service and support of the Los Angeles Police Department Southeast Division Jeopardy Program; a Certificate of Recognition by the California State Legislature for her community service to the city of Los Angeles; and the prestigious Women in History Award by the California State Assembly. In 2012, Collins was honored by the Los Angeles Dodgers with a \"Go to Bat Award\" for going to bat for inner city children in Los Angeles. LA Family Housing Homeless shelters honored her with a Dream Builder Award in 2013 for her over twenty years of service to homeless children and families. In 2013, Collins was the recipient of the California Peace Officers Association's Certificate of Appreciation. The award is presented to an individual outside of the law enforcement for an action that enhances Peace and the law enforcement profession.\n\nTODAY and Al Roker chose Collins' charity as the Lend a Hand Charity of the Year 2012 featuring them on the show. Al Roker said: \"In all of my years dealing with charities, I have never seen one as special as this.\"\n\nA Chance for Children Free Libraries provide access to free books for children and have been established in over 40 locations around the city of Los Angeles at various locations including LAPD lobbies, the Torrance PD and Pasadena PD lobby. The libraries have expanded into LA Sheriff Department lobbies with four in the works. The libraries are registered with the Little Free Libraries and have been honored by them with a \"Library of Distinction\" Award. A Chance for Children has partnered with the Water Buffalo Club and several girl scout and boy scout troops to bring these libraries to life.\n\nA Chance for Children Foundation works closely with the LAPD, LA Fire Department, US Coast Guard, Los Angeles County Lifeguards agencies and Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles (HACLA). It's appropriate that Collins career and foundation merge with these heroes.\n\nIn 2013, Collins and her partner, Gregory J. Bonann, started A Chance for Children South Africa.\n\nMSNBC featured Collins in a piece called \"The God Mother of Hollywood.\"\n\nCollins serves as Vice President on the board of Sunburst Youth Challenge Academy, a program run by the National Guard that intervenes and reclaims lives of 16 to 18 year old at-risk high school students; to produce program graduates with the values, life skills, education and self discipline to succeed as productive citizens.\n\nShe is also serves on the board of Shoes That Fit, a non-profit foundation whose mission is giving children in need new athletic shoes to attend school with dignity and joy, prepared to learn, play, and thrive.\n\nAfter her notoriety as Miss Virginia USA and her international modeling career, Collins gained more exposure after alleging in 1991 that she and then-U.S. Senator Chuck Robb had an eighteen-month relationship while Robb was Governor of Virginia. Collins appeared in \"Playboy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2108807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108807", "title": "Leave Us Alone Coalition", "text": "Leave Us Alone Coalition\n\nThe Leave Us Alone Coalition is an idea popularized by conservative/libertarian activist Grover Norquist for a wide-ranging and loose collaboration among various elements of U.S. politics, united by a common desire for minimal involvement with and restrictions from government, especially the U.S. federal government. There is no actual organization by this name. Rather, it is a description of a hoped-for reality of cooperation between social conservatives, right-libertarians / free market supporters, and various single-issue voters, such as gun rights supporters.\n\nThe idea emphasizes what all these disparate forces tend to agree on: that they do not welcome federal laws coercing them in ways they dislike, such as federal efforts to impose liberal values, ban guns, and restrain or restrict free markets. \n\nIt de-emphasizes what they tend to disagree on, for example, the desire of social conservatives to enact laws such as school prayer and other state endorsement of Christianity, blue laws, bans or restrictions on divorce, contraception, abortion, pornography, adultery, fornication, gay marriage, and sodomy; and occasional local laws passed by gun-rights supporters mandating gun ownership, all of which are examples of coercion that libertarians and free-marketeers would tend to oppose.\n\nThe term is sometimes also used, in rhetoric and polemics, in contrast to a so-called \"Takings Coalition\", whose constituent elements -- such as welfare recipients, government employees, unions, and companies or non-profits benefiting from government contracts, protectionism or other state action -- all depend on government spending, mandates, or preferences for their livelihood, rather than free markets or voluntarism.\n"}
{"id": "2108813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108813", "title": "Heart-burial", "text": "Heart-burial\n\nHeart-burial is a type of burial in which the heart is interred apart from the body. This is a very ancient practice, and the special reverence shown towards the heart is doubtless due to its early association with the soul, affections, courage and conscience of man.\nIn medieval Europe heart-burial was fairly common. Some of the more notable cases of this include:\n\n\nA more modern example is that of Thomas Hardy whose ashes were interred in Poets' Corner of Westminster Abbey whilst his heart was buried in his beloved Wessex alongside his first wife. A recent biography of Hardy details the arguments over the decision, and addresses the long-standing rumour that the heart was stolen by a pet cat so that a pig's heart had to be used as a replacement.\n\nAnother is John Crichton-Stuart, 3rd Marquess of Bute, scholar, art patron and Catholic convert, whose heart was buried in 1900 on the Mount of Olives in Jerusalem.\n\nAnother famous heart-burial figure is music composer Frédéric Chopin. Before the funeral, pursuant to his dying wish, his heart was removed. It was preserved in alcohol (perhaps brandy) to be returned to his homeland, as he had requested. His sister smuggled it in an urn to Warsaw, where it was later sealed within a pillar of the Holy Cross Church on Krakowskie Przedmieście, beneath an epitaph sculpted by Leonard Marconi, bearing an inscription from Matthew VI:21: \"For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.\" Chopin's heart has reposed there – except for a period during World War II, when it was removed for safekeeping – within the church that was rebuilt after its virtual destruction during the 1944 Warsaw Uprising. The church stands only a short distance from Chopin's last Polish residence, the Krasiński Palace at Krakowskie Przedmieście.\n\nThe most recent notable case of heart burial was of Otto von Habsburg, former head of the House of Habsburg, whose heart was buried at the Pannonhalma Archabbey in Hungary in 2011.\n\nIn the 1994 movie \"Legends of the Fall\", the character Samuel (Henry Thomas) is killed while serving in the Canadian army in World War I. His brother (Brad Pitt) cuts the heart out of the body and sends it home to be buried on his father's ranch in Montana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108814", "title": "Imperial Highness", "text": "Imperial Highness\n\nHis/Her Imperial Highness (abbreviation HIH) is a style used by members of an imperial family to denote \"imperial\" – as opposed to \"royal\" – status to show that the holder in question is descended from an Emperor rather than a King (compare His/Her Royal Highness).\n\nThe first dynasty to use the style in Europe on the generic basis were the Romanovs in the eighteenth century; the archdukes and archduchess of the House of Habsburg were only styled as Royal Highness given the officially elective nature of the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nWith the establishment of the Austrian Empire in 1804, the style of members of its imperial family changed to \"Imperial Highness\". Following the Austro-Hungarian compromise with its creation of two intertwined but distinct states, the Austrian Empire and the Kingdom of Hungary, the style was changed to \"Imperial and Royal Highness\" to reflect the double role; however, the colloquialism of omitting \"and Royal\" was acceptable even for the most formal occasions.\n\nToday, the style has mainly fallen from use with the exception of the . In the past, the style has been applied to the more senior members of imperial dynasties, including the French, Turkish, Russian, Brazil, and Ethiopian imperial houses, among many others. Archdukes of Austria from the Habsburg dynasty traditionally hold the style of Imperial and Royal Highness (), with the \"Royal\" signifying their status as Princes of Hungary. These styles have been abrogated but are often given out of courtesy. Some members of the royal family of Belgium descending from the Habsburgs do hold it as an official style (the \"and Royal\" might here possibly be read as referring as well to Belgium). Members of the British Royal Family, theoretically, as the Imperial Family of British India, could have used the title, but did not.\n"}
{"id": "2108815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108815", "title": "Epsilon Aquarii", "text": "Epsilon Aquarii\n\nEpsilon Aquarii, Latinized from ε Aquarii, is a single star in the equatorial zodiac constellation of Aquarius, located near the western constellation border with Capricornus. It has the proper name Albali , now formally recognized by the IAU. This is a white-hued star that is visible to the naked eye with an apparent visual magnitude of 3.77. Based upon parallax measurements taken during the Hipparcos mission, it is located at a distance of approximately from the Sun with an absolute magnitude of −0.46. The star is drifting closer with a radial velocity of −15 km/s.\n\nThis object is an A-type main-sequence star with a stellar classification of A1 V. It is an estimated 388 million years old with a high rate of spin, showing a projected rotational velocity of around 118 km/s. The elemental abundances in the stellar atmosphere are close to solar, with pronounced underabundances of aluminium and strontium. The star has three times the mass of the Sun and about 2.5 times the Sun's radius. It is radiating 138 times the luminosity of the Sun from its photosphere at an effective temperature of 9,622 K.\n\n\"ε Aquarii\" (Latinised to \"Epsilon Aquarii\") is the star's Bayer designation.\n\nIt bore the traditional name, \"Albali\", from the Arabic البالع (\"albāli‘\"), meaning \"the swallower\". (See also Albulaan.) Along with Mu Aquarii (Albulaan) and Nu Aquarii (also Albulaan), they were \"al Bulaʽ\" (البلع), meaning \"the Swallower\". In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Albali\" for this star on 12 September 2016, and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn the catalogue of stars in the \"Calendarium\" of Al Achsasi al Mouakket, it was designated \"Nir Saad Bula\" (نير سعد ألبلع \"nayyir sa'd al bulaʽ\"), which was translated into Latin as \"Lucida Fortunæ Dissipantis\", meaning \"the brightest of luck of the swallower\". \n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Girl (asterism)\", refers to an asterism consisting of Epsilon Aquarii, Mu Aquarii, 4 Aquarii, 5 Aquarii and 3 Aquarii. Consequently, the Chinese name for Epsilon Aquarii itself is (, ).\n\n"}
{"id": "2108819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108819", "title": "Solanum americanum", "text": "Solanum americanum\n\nSolanum americanum, commonly known as American black nightshade, small-flowered nightshade or glossy nightshade is a herbaceous flowering plant of wide though uncertain native range. The certain native range encompasses the tropics and subtropics of the Americas, Melanesia, New Guinea, and Australia.\n\nThe plant is widely naturalised around the Tropical Pacific and Indian Oceans, including Hawaii, Indochina, Madagascar and Africa, possibly via anthropogenic introduction in these locales.\n\n\"Solanum americanum\" is one of the most widespread and morphologically variable species belonging to the section \"Solanum\". It can be confused with other black nightshade species in the \"Solanum nigrum\" complex.\n\n\"Solanum americanum\" grows up to tall and is an annual or short-lived perennial. The leaves are alternate on the branch, and vary greatly in size, up to long and broad, with a petiole and a coarsely wavy or toothed margin. The flowers are about 1 cm diameter, white or occasionally light purple, with yellow stamens. The fruit is a shiny black berry diameter, containing numerous small seeds.\n\n\"Solanum americanum\" is a variable taxon. It is considered by some botanists to be more than one species, and others recognise subspecies. Some botanists have suggested that \"Solanum americanum\" may be conspecific with the European nightshade, \"S. nigrum\".\n\nResearch indicates the presence of toxic glycoalkaloids and there are warnings to be careful on the use of \"S.americanum\" as herbal medicine and food. The green fruit is particularly poisonous and eating unripe berries has caused the death of children. Ripe berries and foliage may also cause poisoning, though the toxicity seems to diminish somewhat with ripening. This is via high levels of the glycoalkaloids, solanine and solamargine. Other toxins present in the plant include chaconine, solasonine, solanigrine, gitogenin and traces of saponins, as well as the tropane alkaloids scopolamine (hyoscine), atropine and hyoscyamine.\n\nSignificant amounts of solasodine (0.65%) have been found in the green berries. The ripe fruit also contains 0.3–0.45% solasonine, and acetylcholine, and has a cholinesterase-inhibiting effect on human plasma. In Transkei, rural people have a high incidence of esophageal cancer thought to be a result of using \"S.americanum\" as a food. Livestock can also be poisoned by high nitrate levels in the leaves.\n\nToxicity varies widely depending on the genetic strain and the location conditions, like soil and rainfall. Poisonous plant experts advise: \"...unless you are certain that the berries are from an edible strain, leave them alone.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108823", "title": "Changing Partners", "text": "Changing Partners\n\n\"Changing Partners\" is a pop song with music by Larry Coleman and lyrics by Joe Darion, published in 1953. The best-known recording was made by Patti Page. It was also recorded the same year by Dinah Shore, Kay Starr and Bing Crosby.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108825", "title": "Xi Aquarii", "text": "Xi Aquarii\n\nXi Aquarii (ξ Aquarii, abbreviated Xi Aqr, ξ Aqr) is a binary star system in the equatorial constellation of Aquarius. It is visible to the naked eye with an apparent visual magnitude of 4.7. Based upon parallax measurements made during the Hipparcos mission, this system lies at a distance of around from the Sun.\n\nThe two components are designated Xi Aquarii A (also named Bunda) and B.\n\n\"ξ Aquarii\" (Latinised to \"Xi Aquarii\") is the binary's Bayer designation. The designations of the two components as \"Xi Aquarii A\" and \"B\" derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).\n\nAlong with Beta Aquarii (Sadalsuud) it constituted the Persian lunar mansion \"Bunda\". In 2016, the IAU organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name \"Bunda\" for the component Xi Aquarii A on 1 June 2018 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn the catalogue of stars in the \"Calendarium\" of Al Achsasi al Mouakket, this star was designated \"Thanih Saad al Saaoud\" ( – ), which was translated into Latin as , meaning \"the second of luck of lucks\". This star, along with Beta Aquarii and 46 Capricorni, were (), \"the Luck of Lucks\".\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Celestial Ramparts\", refers to an asterism consisting of Xi Aquarii, 46 Capricorni, 47 Capricorni, Lambda Capricorni, 50 Capricorni, 18 Aquarii, 29 Capricorni, 9 Aquarii, 8 Aquarii, Nu Aquarii, 14 Aquarii, 17 Aquarii and 19 Aquarii. Consequently, the Chinese name for Xi Aquarii itself is (, ).\n\nXi Aquarii is a single-lined spectroscopic binary system, which means that the presence of an unseen orbiting companion can be inferred from Doppler shifts in the spectral absorption lines. The two bodies orbit each other with a period of 8,016 days (22 y) and an eccentricity of 0.54. The primary component, Xi Aquarii A, is an A-type main sequence star with a stellar classification of A7 V. It has about 1.9 times the mass of the Sun and is rotating rapidly with a projected rotational velocity of 170 km/s. The orbital data is consistent with the secondary component, Xi Aquarii B, being either a red dwarf or a white dwarf star.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108826", "title": "Golden point", "text": "Golden point\n\nThe golden point, a sudden death overtime system, is used to resolve drawn football matches. The term is borrowed from soccer's now-defunct golden goal.\n\nThe golden point is used to determine a winner (where applicable, see below) when scores are level at the end of regular time. Before its introduction in Australasia's National Rugby League competition, normal season games were left as draws; in finals matches, 20 minutes extra time ensued (10 minutes each way), with a replay in the event of a draw.\n\nIf the scores are level at the end of 80 minutes, 5 minutes are played, the teams swap ends with no break, and a further 5 minutes are played. Any score (try, penalty goal, or field goal) in this 10 minute period secures a win for the scoring team, and the game ends at that point. If the scoring event is a try, no conversion is attempted. If no scoring occurs in the 10-minute period, the game is drawn, and each team receives one competition point.\n\nHowever, during the finals series, where a winner must be found on the day, play continues in the second period of extra time until one team scores.\n\nFirst experimented with in the 1997 split season's Super League Tri-series, the golden point rule has been used by the National Rugby League (NRL) since the 2003 NRL season, and also by the ARL for State of Origin series games, as 1-all draws in the 1999 and 2002 had left the series undecided. The first golden point in State of Origin was scored in the 2004 series, when Shaun Timmins kicked a field goal for NSW to win the opening match of that series 9-8. In the opening match of the 2005 State of Origin series, a Brett Kimmorley (NSW) pass was intercepted by Matthew Bowen (QLD) in the 83rd minute to give Queensland Game One.\n\nIn 2012, the golden point's merits were again being debated when Australian rugby league broadcaster, the Nine Network's director of sport said \"there is a definite spike in the viewing audience when there is golden point. I can't give the figures, but they're significant.\"\n\nAfter the 2015 grand final was decided in golden point VIA a Drop Goal by North Queensland Cowboys Halfback Johnathan Thurston, a change was made for finals matches only. Golden point in finals fixtures would now only be applied if scores are level after 10 minutes of extra time (five minutes each way).\n\nThe Challenge Cup, Europe's most prestigious knock-out tournament, operates under the golden point rule and also follows the NRL Finals system. One extra half of five minutes is played, and should neither team have scored any more points in that time, a second period commences until one of the teams scores again, thus winning the game. This does not happen in the final. If the final is drawn then the teams have a replay at a neutral ground. This was first applied in 2009, when the Castleford Tigers defeated Halifax in extra time during the fifth round of the competition. Brent Sherwin kicked a drop goal in the 82nd minute to advance Castleford to the quarterfinals. The second being Warringtons stand off Lee Briers kicking a drop goal to see them through to the Semi Finals against Hull KR. The rule was used for a third time in the 2014 competition when Rangi Chase scored a drop goal in the 83rd minute to send Salford City Reds through 37-36 at Hull F.C. in the third round.\n\nThe Million Pound Game between Salford City Reds and Hull Kingston Rovers on 1 October 2016 was decided by a Golden Point - for Salford - after the 80 minutes ended 18-18. The result saw Salford maintain Super League status, whilst Hull KR dropped into the National League. Golden point decided a Super League playoff game for the first time on September 28 2017 - for Castleford - after a 22-22 draw after 80 minutes. The result saw Castleford defeat St Helens to reach the Super League Grand Final.\n\nOn 19 November 2018, it was confirmed that Super League would be adopting golden point during regular season for the first time as of the start of the 2019 season, bringing it in line with the NRL. \n\nFriendlies may apply the golden point rule, depending on the format of the tie.\n\nGolden point was introduced in the Championship and League 1 competitions commencing with 2020 season. However unlike Super League where the winners of golden point take both competition points, in the lower leagues each team will earn one competition point in a drawn game at the end of normal time with a third point going to the team that scores the golden point.\n\nGolden point is also applied to the Tri-Nations final. The format follows that of the NRL finals series: a five-minute period of play followed by a brief pause and then if no points have been scored a second period that continues until points are scored.\n\nIn the 2006 series, Australia and New Zealand were locked 12-12 at full-time. Darren Lockyer scored a try in the 87th minute to win the title for Australia.\n\nCommencing in the 2016 season, the Australian Football League grand final will be decided by golden point should the scores be tied at full time, and after two 5 minute overtime periods.\n\nGolden point (known in North America as \"sudden death\") was the method of breaking ties in the National Football League regular season from 1974 to 2011, and in the NFL playoffs from 1946 to 2010. \n\nThe only other football organization to use golden point was to be the Alliance of American Football, which planned to use sudden death for its playoffs; the AAF ceased play before the playoffs were held. The AAF regular season, college football, high school football and Canadian football all use a procedure known as the Kansas Playoff, where teams are each given a possession near the opponent's goal line and alternate until the game is decided; before the Kansas Playoff, games simply ended in ties (draws), since the only situation where ties were impractical (multiple-round knockout playoff tournaments) were not implemented in most high schools until the 1970s, at lower college levels until the 1980s, and the highest level of college football until 2014.\n\nGolden point has long been perceived as a particularly poor fit for gridiron-based football codes, as possession of the ball is far more secure in the game; the first team to secure possession (which is decided by coin toss) would only need to advance to field goal range and kick the winning field goal, with the opponent having no chance to possess the ball or score, thus effectively deciding the game by the random outcome of the coin toss.\nIn badminton, this method is used to decide the set and/or match when it's tied at 29–all. Whoever scores this point wins it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108830", "title": "Pancake (disambiguation)", "text": "Pancake (disambiguation)\n\nPancake is a batter cake fried in a pan or on another hot surface.\n\nPancake or Pancakes may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108832", "title": "Gamma Capricorni", "text": "Gamma Capricorni\n\nGamma Capricorni (γ Capricorni, abbreviated Gamma Cap, γ Cap), named Nashira , is a giant star in the constellation of Capricornus. Based on parallax measurements obtained during the Hipparcos mission, it is about 139 light-years from the Sun. It is 2.56 degrees south of the ecliptic, so it can be occulted by the Moon, and (rarely) by planets.\n\n\"γ Capricorni\" (Latinised to \"Gamma Capricorni\") is the star's Bayer designation.\n\nIt bore the traditional name \"Nashira\", derived from the Arabic سعد ناشرة \"sa'd nashirah\" \"the lucky one\" or \"bearer of good news\". In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Nashira\" for this star on 21 August 2016 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Line of Ramparts\", refers to an asterism consisting of Gamma Capricorni, Kappa Capricorni, Epsilon Capricorni, Delta Capricorni, Iota Aquarii, Sigma Aquarii, Lambda Aquarii, Phi Aquarii, 27 Piscium, 29 Piscium, 33 Piscium and 30 Piscium. Consequently, the Chinese name for Gamma Capricorni itself is (, ).\n\nNashira (AK-85) was a United States Navy ship, though it was never commissioned and never bore the USS designation.\n\nγ Capricorni is a hot chemically peculiar Am star with a mean apparent magnitude of +3.67. It is classified as an α Canum Venaticorum type variable star and its brightness varies by 0.03 magnitudes.\n"}
{"id": "2108833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108833", "title": "Sharon Warren", "text": "Sharon Warren\n\nSharon Warren is an American actress. She played Ray Charles' mother, Aretha Robinson, in the 2004 film \"Ray\".\n\nWarren was born in Opelika, Alabama. She attended Stillman College in Tuscaloosa, Alabama for three years. She is a Member of the Omega Alpha chapter of Epsilon Sigma Alpha and Delta Sigma Theta. She worked with an Atlanta theater company for many years before landing role in \"Ray\". She later had supporting role in the drama film \"Glory Road\" (2006).\n"}
{"id": "2108835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108835", "title": "National Weather Center", "text": "National Weather Center\n\nThe National Weather Center (NWC), on the campus of the University of Oklahoma, is a confederation of federal, state, and academic organizations that work together to better understand events that take place in Earth's atmosphere over a wide range of time and space scales. The NWC partners give equal attention to applying that understanding to the development of improved observation, analysis, assimilation, display, and prediction systems. The National Weather Center also has expertise in local and regional climate, numerical modeling, hydrology, and weather radar. Members of the NWC work with a wide range of federal, state, and local government agencies to help reduce loss of life and property to hazardous weather, ensure wise use of water resources, and enhance agricultural production. They also work with private sector partners to develop new applications of weather and regional climate information that provide competitive advantage in the marketplace.\n\nThe National Weather Center building houses many organizations from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the University of Oklahoma and several other organizations outside the NOAA or OU.\n\n\n\n\n\nOn the afternoon of April 23, 2015, a car rammed through the gates that protect the loading dock on the building's east side. It drove toward the building before it burst into flames approximately halfway between the gates and the building. Firefighters and a bomb squad were called to the scene. Responders extinguished the fire with no damage done to the building. Despite a rescue attempt, the driver, Allen Rouse, was found dead on the scene. Rouse, suffering from schizophrenia and paranoia, had killed himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108836", "title": "List of endemic birds of New Caledonia", "text": "List of endemic birds of New Caledonia\n\nThis article is one of a series providing information about endemism among birds in the world's various zoogeographic zones. For an overview of this subject, see Endemism in birds.\n\nNew Caledonia has a single endemic family, the Rhynochetidae.\n\nBirdlife International has defined the whole of New Caledonia—the main island of Grande Terre, the Loyalty Islands (Ouvéa, Lifou and Maré), the Île des Pins and other smaller surrounding islands—as an Endemic Bird Area (EBA).\n\nThe following is a list of species endemic to New Caledonia. Except where indicated, the species is only found on Grande Terre.\n\n\nThe following restricted-range species are also found in this EBA:\n\n"}
{"id": "2108837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108837", "title": "Mysterious Canada", "text": "Mysterious Canada\n\nMysterious Canada: Strange Sights, Extraordinary Events, and Peculiar Places is a reference book written by John Robert Colombo (), chronicling the paranormal in Canada. Published in 1988 by Doubleday Canada Limited of Toronto, it said of itself that it posed more questions than it answered.\n\nThe book was split up by province or territory \"in the form of a gazetteer\", preceded by a Preface and Acknowledgments, and followed by a Bibliography and Index. Compiling major and minor mysteries from across Canada, \"Mysterious Canada\" presents more than five hundred mysteries, originating from 365 locations.\n\nThe author acknowledges in his forward that \"[a]nyone who looks long and hard enough will no doubt find rational explanations for the mysteries in this book.\" He believes that all of the events have explanations, or are just rooted in myth and folklore.\n"}
{"id": "2108841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108841", "title": "Maria Barbara Bach", "text": "Maria Barbara Bach\n\nMaria Barbara Bach ( – buried 7 July 1720) was the first wife of composer Johann Sebastian Bach. She was also the daughter of his father's cousin Johann Michael Bach.\n\nMaria Barbara Bach was born at Gehren, Schwarzburg-Sondershausen, to Catherina (d. 1704) and Michael Bach (1648-1694). Her father was organist and town scribe at Gehren. Her older sister, Barbara Catherina, gave testimony on Bach's behalf in the famous 'Geyersbach' incident in which Bach was punched in the face by a student and defended himself by drawing his sword. Her godparents were Martin Feldhaus, a merchant and burgomaster in Arnstadt, and Magarethe Wedermann (daughter of the Arnstadt town scribe Johann Wedemann)., with whom she lived after her mother's death in 1704.\n\nMaria Barbara was twenty-three years old when she married Johann Sebastian Bach. The extended Bach family was closely knit, and as Maria Barbara was his second cousin, it is fairly safe to assume that they knew each other at least casually from childhood. They became close during Bach's tenure as organist of Mühlhausen's St. Blasius Church, and were able to marry at Dornheim on 17 October 1707, thanks to an inheritance of 50 gulden (more than half his annual salary) which he received from his maternal uncle, Tobias Lämmerhirt. Little is known of her life or their marriage, except that they were contented.\n\nAccording to the \"Nekrolog\" ('obituary') co-authored by Carl Philipp Emanuel and Bach student Johann Friedrich Agricola, Maria Barbara's death in 1720 was sudden and unexpected. Bach was at the Carlsbad spa accompanying his employer, Prince Leopold of Anhalt-Köthen, when she died. When Bach left Köthen, Maria Barbara was in perfectly good health; but when he returned two months later, he was shocked to learn that she had died and been buried on 7 July. The cause of her death is undocumented. Professor Helga Thoene proposed that Bach's famous Violin Partita No. 2 (especially the final \"Chaconne\" movement) was written as a tombeau for Maria Barbara, however these claims are controversial.\n\nMaria Barbara bore seven children, three of whom died in infancy:\n\n\nAnna Magdalena Wilcke became Johann's second wife 17 months after Maria Barbara's death and raised her stepchildren along with her own children with Johann Sebastian Bach.\n"}
{"id": "2108842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108842", "title": "No-Man", "text": "No-Man\n\nNo-Man are an English art pop duo, formed in 1987 as No Man Is an Island (Except the Isle of Man) by singer Tim Bowness and multi-instrumentalist Steven Wilson. The band has so far produced seven studio albums and a number of singles/outtakes collections (most notably, 2006's career retrospective, \"All the Blue Changes\"). The band was once lauded as \"conceivably the most important English group since The Smiths\" by \"Melody Maker\" music newspaper, and a 2017 article of \"Drowned in Sound\" described them as \"probably the most underrated band of the last 25 years\".\n\nOriginally creating a sample-based proto-trip hop/ambient/electropop-styled music, No-Man has pursued a more organic, diverse and band-oriented sound in subsequent years. Drawing from a diverse mix of singer-songwriter, post rock, minimalist, progressive rock, jazz and contemporary ambient sources for inspiration, No-Man's musical style is distinctive yet difficult to categorise.\n\nSteven Wilson originally launched the band in 1986 as a solo project called No Man Is An Island (Except The Isle Of Man), recording an instrumental track called \"From a Toyshop Window\", which blended progressive rock with synth pop. In 1987, he linked up with singer, lyricist and occasional guitarist and keyboard player Tim Bowness, who at the time was singing with Liverpool-based art-pop band, Plenty (not to be confused with the more recent Japanese indie rock band, Plenty).\n\nBowness and Wilson continued working together on recording sessions for the next two years. Violinist Ben Coleman joined the project after becoming involved with recording sessions in late 1988. The band established a four-piece live line-up in 1989 by adding guitarist Stuart Blagden (who had previously played with Bowness in the Manchester-based band, Still).\n\nNo Man Is An Island released their debut single, a waltz time ballad called \"The Girl From Missouri\", on Plastic Head Records in mid-1989. The band was disappointed with the single and soon disowned it. Subsequent band evolutions saw flirtations with aggressive synth-pop (on the \"Swagger\" cassette EP) and the departure of Blagden (who would later become a jazz and Latin music player).\n\nBy 1990, No Man Is an Island had shortened their name to No-Man and become a voice/violin/guitar-and-tapes trio (with Wilson handling all other instruments and programming in the studio).\n\nThe first release under the No-Man name was the self-pressed June 1990 single release, \"Colours\" (a cover of the 1960s Donovan Leich song with crooned vocals and a dub-loop arrangement anticipating the later arrival of trip hop). The single achieved \"Melody Maker\", \"Sounds\" and Channel 4 teletext \"Singles Of The Week\" accolades and was re-released by Liverpool-based label Probe Plus in October, 1990.\n\nThe attention which \"Colours\" had received led to No-Man being signed by Dave Massey to a long-term music publishing songwriting agreement with independent Hit & Run Music Publishing. Massey soon secured a recording contract with the independent label One Little Indian. During this period, the band received highly positive UK music media support (including more Singles Of The Week in \"Melody Maker\", \"Sounds\" and Irish music paper, \"Hot Press\") and had 2 indie top 20 hits (\"Days In The Trees\" and \"Ocean Song\") plus a Billboard Top 40 dance hit (the US only single, \"Taking It Like A Man\", at No. 34).<ref name=\"Hot Dance Music/Club Play\"></ref>\n\nNo-Man’s debut mini-album (a compilation of EP tracks called \"Lovesighs - An Entertainment\") was released in April 1992, and in October of the same year the band toured England with a six-piece line-up including three ex-members of the band Japan – Mick Karn, Steve Jansen and (most significantly) keyboardist Richard Barbieri, who had been recruited by Massey. The band's first full-length album (the more pop-oriented \"Loveblows & Lovecries - A Confession\") followed in May 1993. By this time, the live band included bass player Silas Maitland and the (unrelated) drummer Chris Maitland. (The latter would join both Wilson and Richard Barbieri in the live lineup of Porcupine Tree).\n\nIn 1994 No-Man released their second album \"Flowermouth\". Although the band parted company with violinist Ben Coleman during the sessions, he made a significant contribution towards most of the tracks on the record. No-Man also stopped performing live in 1994, and would not return to the stage until 2006.\n\nTwo albums released in 1995 closed the first phase of the band's career - a set of ambient dance reworkings of \"Flowermouth\" material called \"Flowermix\" and a compilation of the band's more ambient and atmospheric One Little Indian-era B-sides and rarities called \"Heaven Taste\".\n\nWith each subsequent release the band moved further away from its more conventional pop and rock roots, mirroring the evolution of artists such as Talk Talk, David Sylvian, Radiohead, Scott Walker and Kate Bush. Since the mid-1990s, No-Man has released a steady stream of albums via Snapper Music and 3rd Stone/Adasam, featuring guests such as Fripp, Barbieri, Jansen, Theo Travis and Pat Mastellotto. The band has maintained a healthy cult following as well as continued critical acclaim.\n\n1996's \"Wild Opera\" and its 1997 companion release \"Dry Cleaning Ray\" (both released on 3rd Stone Ltd.) explored a combination of darker dance sounds, experimental art-rock and deep trip hop, while maintaining No-Man's particular skill with ballads. An EP of all-new material, \"Carolina Skeletons,\" followed in 1998.\n\nIn 1999, the band released \"Speak\", a compilation of mostly-unreleased early ambient songs recorded a decade previously but which Bowness and Wilson considered to be of equal merit to the music released on One Little Indian or 3rd Stone Ltd.\n\n\"Speak\"'s quieter and more atmospheric approach pointed the way towards No-Man's subsequent output. 2001's \"Returning Jesus\" (the last album to be released on 3rd Stone Ltd.) resurrected and expanded the eclectic ballad, jazz and progressive rock influences of \"Flowermouth\" and brought the band to a new and revived audience, some of whom had come in via the continued success of Wilson's other main project Porcupine Tree.\n\nSigning a new deal with Snapper Music, the band went on to release \"Together We're Stranger\" in 2003 - a sombre, moving record with strong tone poem elements detailing (in abstract) the break-up of a relationship and responses to bereavement.\n\nIn 2006, No-Man made a rare live performance at the Norwich Garage (part of a Burning Shed label event).\n\nThe band released \"Schoolyard Ghosts\" on 12 May 2008, receiving some of the most favourable reviews of the band's career (the album was described as \"truly sublime\" by \"Classic rock\" magazine). Guest musicians included Pat Mastelotto, Theo Travis, Gavin Harrison, Colin Edwin, Bruce Kaphan (ex-American Music Club) and The London Session Orchestra (arranged by Dave Stewart).\n\nOn 27 May 2008, it was announced that No-Man's music will be featured in the film by award-winning student film-maker Dan Faltz, \"Weak Species\". The film is based on the writings of Dennis Cooper and is currently being considered for expanded feature film treatment.\n\nNo-Man played its first full performance in fifteen years at London's Bush Hall on 29 August 2008. This performance was followed by two more concerts in Zoetermeer (The Netherlands) and Düsseldorf (Germany) on 3 and 4 September respectively. The Zoetermeer concert was No-Man's first concert outside of the UK. \n\n\"Mixtaped\"—a double DVD package including a film of the sell-out London performance, a documentary of the group's history and assorted promotional videos—was released in October 2009. Early releases of the DVD ordered from Burning Shed included an audio CD recording of highlights from the Bush Hall show. The DVD was voted No. 5 in the Classic Rock Presents Prog 2010 critic's poll.\n\nOn 22 December 2011, the band announced through their Facebook page that a new live recording, titled Love and Endings, recorded at the Leamington Spa Assembly in October 2011 would be released on 27 February 2012. It was followed by a 5-date tour, including first performance in Poland on August 26th, 2012.\n\nWilson announced in late 2018 that he was working with Bowness on a new No-Man album, the band's first full length album of original material since 2008's Schoolyard Ghosts. Wilson described the album as \"\"music that in many ways sees a return to our roots as a synth-pop band, albeit with the conceptual sweep of our more recent albums\"\".\nIn September 2019 the band announced their new album, Love You to Bits, which was released on 22nd November 2019.\n\nCurrent members\n\nFormer members\n\nGuest studio contributors\n\nCurrent live members\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108843", "title": "Sida rhombifolia", "text": "Sida rhombifolia\n\nSida rhombifolia, commonly known as arrowleaf sida, is a perennial or sometimes annual plant in the Family Malvaceae, native to the New World tropics and subtropics. Other common names include rhombus-leaved sida, Paddy's lucerne, jelly leaf, and also somewhat confusingly as Cuban jute, Queensland-hemp, and Indian hemp (although \"S. rhombifolia\" is not related to either jute or hemp). Synonyms include \"Malva rhombifolia\". It is used in Ayurvedic medicine, where it is known as kurumthotti.\n\nThe stems are erect to sprawling and branched, growing 50 to 120 centimeters in height, with the lower sections being woody. The dark green, diamond-shaped leaves are arranged alternately along the stem, 4 to 8 centimeters long, with petioles that are less than a third of the length of the leaves. The leaves are paler below, with short, grayish hairs. The apical half of the leaves have toothed or serrated margins while the remainder of the leaves are entire (untoothed). The petioles have small spiny stipules at their bases.\n\nThe moderately delicate flowers occur singly on flower stalks that arise from the area between the stems and leaf petioles. They consist of five petals that are 4 to 8 millimeters long, creamy to orange-yellow in color, and may be somewhat reddish in the center. Each of the five overlapping petals is asymmetric, having a long lobe on one side. The stamens unite in a short column. The fruit is a ribbed capsule, which breaks up into 8 to 10 segments. The plant blooms throughout the year.\n\nThis species is usually confined to waste ground, such as roadsides and rocky areas, stock camps or rabbit warrens, but can be competitive in pasture, because of its unpalatability to livestock.\n\nFrom The International Institute of Tropical Forestry, a division of the United States Department of Agriculture Forest Service:\n\nIn Alor, Eastern Indonesia the leaves are used to treat boils, and the root is used to treat infant asthma.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108845", "title": "Alpha Capricorni", "text": "Alpha Capricorni\n\nAlpha Capricorni (α Capricorni, abbreviated Alpha Cap, α Cap) is an optical double star in the constellation of Capricornus. The two physically unrelated components are designated:\n\nThey are separated by 0.11° on the sky, and resolvable with the naked eye, similar to Mizar and Alcor. α¹ Capricorni is fainter (apparent magnitude 4.27) than α² Capricorni (apparent magnitude 3.58).\n\n\"α Capricorni\" (Latinised to \"Alpha Capricorni\") is the system's Bayer designation; \"α¹\" and \"α² Capricorni\", those of the two components.\n\nAlpha Capricorni bore the traditional names \"Algedi\", \"Algiedi\", \"Al Giedi\" or \"Giedi\", derived from the Arabic \"الجدي\" \"al-jady\" \"the billy goat\" or \"kid\". It also refers to the entire constellation of Capricornus. \"Giedi\" is sometimes also associated with Beta Capricorni. \"α¹\" and \"α² Capricorni\" were also called \"Prima Giedi\" and \"Secunda Giedi\", respectively. In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Algedi\" for \"α² Capricorni\" on 21 August 2016 and it is now so entered in the IAU Catalog of Star Names.\n\nAlpha Capricorni is known as 牛宿二 (the Second Star of the Ox) in Chinese astronomy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108850", "title": "Thomas West, 9th Baron De La Warr", "text": "Thomas West, 9th Baron De La Warr\n\nThomas West, 9th Baron De La Warr and 6th Baron West, KG (c. 1475 – 25 September 1554) was the eldest son of Thomas West, 8th Baron De La Warr, by his second wife, Elizabeth Mortimer, daughter of Sir Hugh Mortimer of Martley and Kyre Wyard, Worcestershire, by Eleanor Cornwall, daughter of Sir Edmund Cornwall.\n\nWest married, before 24 August 1494, Elizabeth Bonville, daughter and co-heiress of John Bonville, esquire, of Shute, Devon, by Katherine Wingfield, daughter of Sir Robert Wingfield, but had no issue by her. He succeeded to his titles at the age of 50. He was made Knight of the Garter in 1549 after having fought in France.\n\nWest died 25 September 1554 at his home at Offington, Sussex, and was buried 10 October at Broadwater. The diarist Henry Machyn recorded his funeral, describing him as 'the best house-keeper in Sussex'.\n\nAt his death the baronies of West and De La Warr both 'fell into abeyance, according to modern doctrine', between the two daughters and co-heirs of his half-brother, Sir Owen West (d. 18 July 1551), eldest son of his father's third marriage to Eleanor Copley. Sir Owen West married Mary Guildford, daughter of George Guildford, esquire, second son of Sir Richard Guildford, by whom he had two daughters: Mary West, who married firstly Sir Adrian Poynings (d. 15 February 1570), and secondly, as his second wife, Sir Richard Rogers (died c.1605); and Anne West.\n\nAccording to Cokayne:\n\nA new barony of de la Warr was subsequently conferred on the heir male (who was not the heir general), William West, 1st Baron De La Warr, whose son Thomas was allowed the precedence of the ancient Barony of la Warre.\n\nWest's heir male, William West, 1st Baron De La Warr, was the elder son of Sir George West (d.1538), second son of West's father's third marriage to Eleanor Copley. According to Riordan:\n\n[In 1549 West] placed a private bill before parliament to disinherit his nephew William West, first Baron De La Warr (c.1519–1595). The latter was the son of the ninth baron's half-brother Sir George West of Warbleton (d. 1538) and his wife, Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Robert Morton of Lechlade, Gloucestershire. His uncle was childless, and had at some time adopted William as his heir. However, West tried to gain the de la Warr estate early by poisoning his uncle. The attempt was unsuccessful and he was in the Tower by October 1548. He was disinherited by an act of parliament in 1550, although he had been reinstated as heir by the time of his uncle's death.\n\nDespite the fact that he had been reinstated as heir by his uncle, when the latter died in 1554 William West was unable to inherit the barony of de la Warr as a result of the Act of Parliament of 1550 which had deprived him of all honours. Two years later he was involved in the Dudley conspiracy, and on 30 June 1556 was arraigned at the Guildhall on charges of treason, to which he responded as 'William, Lord de la Warr', forcing the heralds to prove during the trial that he was not entitled to the barony and therefore not entitled to a trial by his peers in the House of Lords. He was convicted of treason. However the death sentence was not carried out, and in 1557 he was pardoned by Queen Mary. He fought at the siege of St. Quentin in that year, and in 1563, early in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, was restored in blood. On 5 February 1570 he was knighted, and on the same day created Baron De La Warr, which was regarded as a new creation of the title.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108857", "title": "Paul Samson", "text": "Paul Samson\n\nPaul Samson (4 June 1953 – 9 August 2002) was an English guitarist, closely associated with the new wave of British heavy metal.\n\nBorn Paul Sanson, his first band in 1968 was a local Kent based group called 'The Innocence' which consisted of him, Stewart Cochrane, Phil Stranders and the late Martin Kirrage. After a period in several obscure bands, Samson formed his own eponymous outfit, Samson, in 1977, consisting of Chris Aylmer on bass guitar, and Clive Burr on drums. Burr left, and eventually joined Iron Maiden, and was replaced by Thunderstick, who wore a gimp mask on stage. In 1979, the line-up was expanded to a four-piece, with the addition of Bruce Dickinson on vocals (with the stage name \"Bruce Bruce\").\n\nThe band enjoyed a cult following in the new wave of British heavy metal, releasing the albums, \"Survivors\", \"Head On\" and \"Shock Tactics\", until 1981 when both Thunderstick and Dickinson left, the latter to join Iron Maiden.\n\nNicky Moore was recruited as a replacement, and Mel Gaynor then Pete Jupp took over drums, and this line-up released \"Before the Storm\" and \"Don't Get Mad - Get Even\". These two albums sold in higher quantities than the first three, and the band toured more countries and played to bigger audiences than the Bruce/Thunderstick line-up, although the New Wave of British Heavy Metal was by now said to be a spent force. The band formally split up in 1984.\n\nSamson spent the subsequent years in a variety of solo and group projects, including various temporary reformations of Samson, and had success as a record producer, and also as a blues player, spending a year in Chicago, Illinois, United States.\nDespite some listings crediting Samson for playing on the Ram Jam 1977 hit single, \"Black Betty\", he did not play on the record. Although, Stewart Cochrane (musician and close friend to Samson since their early band days of the late 1960s, their first band at 15 years old \"The Innocence\" and short time member of the band \"Samson\") was told by Samson in 1978 that he played on the demo of the hit record \"Black Betty\", and was paid a paltry £20 for the session. Samson was very peeved about the payment, as he insisted to Cochrane that it was his guitar playing from the demo recording used in the final \"Black Betty\" pressing, and that he was missing out on a large amount of royalty payments. Cochrane can only confirm what Samson informed him of the alleged switch.\n\nSamson died of cancer on 9 August 2002 in Norwich, whilst recording a new Samson album with Nicky Moore.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108858", "title": "USS Oakland", "text": "USS Oakland\n\nTwo ships of the United States Navy have borne the name Oakland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108868", "title": "Beta Capricorni", "text": "Beta Capricorni\n\nBeta Capricorni (β Capricorni, abbreviated Beta Cap, β Cap) is a multiple star system in the constellation of Capricornus and located 328 light-years from the Sun. Because it is near the ecliptic, Beta Capricorni can be occulted by the Moon, and also (rarely) by planets.\n\nThe system is believed to consist of five stars. With binoculars or a small telescope, Beta Capricorni can be resolved into a binary pair. The brighter of the two is designated Beta¹ Capricorni or Beta Capricorni A; the dimmer, Beta² Capricorni or Beta Capricorni B. Both are themselves made up of multiple stars. Beta¹ Capricorni has three components; a single star designated Beta Capricorni Aa (formally named Dabih , the traditional name of the system) and a binary pair, Beta Capricorni Ab (whose two components are designated Beta Capricorni Ab1 and Ab2). Beta² Capricorni is also a binary pair, with components designated Beta Capricorni Ba and Bb.\n\nTwo other nearby stars were discovered by John Herschel. Sometimes referred to as Beta Capricorni D and E, it is unclear whether they are simply optical doubles or part of the Beta Capricorni system.\n\n\"β Capricorni\" (Latinised to \"Beta Capricorni\") is the system's Bayer designation; \"β¹\" and \"β² Capricorni\" those of its two constituents. The designations of the two constituents as \"Beta Capricorni A\" and \"B\", and those of the sub-components - \"Beta Capricorni Aa\", \"Ab\", \"Ab1\", \"Ab2\", \"Ba\" and \"Bb\" - derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).\n\n\"Beta Capricorni\" bore the traditional name \"Dabih\", deriving from the Arabic الذابح \"al-dhābiḥ\" \"the butcher\", with \"Beta¹\" and \"Beta²\" subsequently named \"Dabih Major\" and \"Dabih Minor\", respectively. In 2016, the IAU organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name \"Dabih\" for the component \"Beta Capricorni Aa\" on 21 August 2016 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Ox (asterism)\", refers to an asterism consisting of Beta Capricorni, Alpha² Capricorni, Xi² Capricorni, Pi Capricorni, Omicron Capricorni and Rho Capricorni. Consequently, the Chinese name for Beta Capricorni itself is (, ).\n\nBeta¹ Capricorni is the brighter of the two components with an apparent magnitude of +3.05, while the dimmer Beta² Capricorni has an apparent magnitude of +6.09. The two components are separated by 3.5 arcminutes on the sky, putting them at least 21,000 AU (0.34 light-years) apart. They take approximately 700,000 years to complete one orbit.\nBeta¹ Capricorni is the more complex of the pair and has a spectrum that is difficult to interpret. Its dominant pair of stars are the orange K-type bright giant Beta Capricorni Aa, with an apparent magnitude of +3.08, and the blue-white B-Type main sequence dwarf Beta Capricorni Ab1 with an apparent magnitude of +7.20. They are separated by 0.05 arcseconds (5 AU) and have an orbital period of 3.77 years.\n\nThe Aa component has a surface temperature of 4900 kelvins, a radius 35 times that of the Sun, and a luminosity 600 times that of the Sun. The Ab1 component's unseen companion, Beta Capricorni Ab2, orbits Ab1 with an orbital period of 8.7 days.\n\nBeta¹ Capricorni is 4.6 degrees north of the ecliptic, so it can be occulted by the Moon.\n\nBeta² Capricorni is simpler and more studied. Its brighter component, Beta Capricorni Ba, has a magnitude of 6.1 and is an A0-giant with 40 times the luminosity of the Sun. The companion, Beta Capricorni Bb, is approximately 3 arcseconds from Ba. Ba is unusual for having large amounts of mercury and manganese in its atmosphere.\n\nThese lie 112 arcseconds away from Beta¹ Capricorni.\n"}
{"id": "2108879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108879", "title": "Delta Capricorni", "text": "Delta Capricorni\n\nDelta Capricorni (δ Capricorni, abbreviated Del Cap or δ Cap) is a multiple star system about 39 light-years away in the constellation of Capricornus (the Sea Goat). The primary star in the system is a white giant and the combined light of its members makes it the brightest star in the constellation.\n\nThe system consists of an eclipsing binary, Delta Capricorni A, and two companion stars, B and C. A's two components are themselves designated Delta Capricorni Aa (formally named Deneb Algedi , the traditional name of the system) and Ab.\n\nDelta Capricorni is 2.6 degrees south of the ecliptic and can be occulted by the Moon, and (rarely) by planets.\n\n\"δ Capricorni\" (Latinised to \"Delta Capricorni\") is the system's Bayer designation. The designations of the three constituents as \"Delta Capricorni A\", \"B\" and \"C\", and those of \"A's\" components – \"Delta Capricorni Aa\" and \"Ab\" – derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).\n\nThe system bore the traditional names \"Deneb Algedi\", derived from the Arabic ذنب الجدي (\"ðanab al-jady\"), meaning \"the tail of the goat\", referring to the fishlike tail of the celestial sea-goat Capricorn, and \"Scheddi\". In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name \"Deneb Algedi\" for the component Delta Capricornii Aa on February 1, 2017 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn Chinese astronomy, Delta Capricorni is known as (), meaning 'The Fourth Star of the Line of Ramparts'. This refers to its presence among an asterism known as 'The Line of Ramparts', which also includes Kappa Capricorni, Epsilon Capricorni, Gamma Capricorni, Iota Aquarii, Lambda Aquarii, Sigma Aquarii, Phi Aquarii, 27 Piscium, 29 Piscium, 33 Piscium and 30 Piscium.\n\nIn 1906 astronomer Vesto Slipher of Lowell Observatory discovered that Delta Capricorni A was a spectroscopic binary. The orbit was determined in 1921 by Clifford Crump using 69 radial velocity measurements obtained at Yerkes Observatory. However the eclipsing binary nature of the system was not discovered until 1956 by Olin J. Eggen at Lick Observatory.\n\nLunar occultations have been observed in 1951, 1962, and 1988.\n\nDelta Capricorni was recognised as a metallic-line star in 1957 and included in a 1958 catalog of magnetic stars. It has also been associated with extreme ultraviolet and radio sources, believed to be from coronal activity in the secondary star.\n\nDelta Capricorni A is an Algol-type eclipsing binary star, with an orbital period of 1.022768 days and an inclination close to the line of sight from the Earth. The peak apparent visual magnitude of the pair is 2.81. During an eclipse of the primary, this magnitude drops by 0.24. When the primary is eclipsing the secondary, the magnitude decreases by 0.09.\n\nDelta Capricorni A has an overall stellar classification of A7m III, indicating that it is a giant star that has exhausted the supply of hydrogen at its core. More specifically, this is a chemically-peculiar Am star with a spectral type of kA5hF0mF2 III under the revised MK system. This notation indicates that the calcium K-line matches the temperature of an A5 star, the hydrogen spectral type matches an F0 star, and the metallic absorption lines match an F2 star.\n\nIn the past this star was suspected of being a Delta Scuti variable, which is rare for an Am star. This categorization was brought into question during observations in 1994 and it is most likely not inherently variable. The primary has double the Sun's mass and nearly twice its radius. It is rotating rapidly with a projected rotational velocity of 105 km s. (This rotation rate is synchronous with the orbital period.) Note that it is unusual for an Am star to have such a high rotational velocity. The outer envelope of the star is radiating energy at an effective temperature of 7,301 K, giving it the white-hued glow of an A-type star. The secondary component is a G-type or K-type star with around 90% of the mass of the Sun.\n\nThere are two optical companions. A fifteenth magnitude star is one arcminute away, and a thirteenth magnitude star is over two arcminutes away from the primary star and that distance is increasing.\n\nAccording to astrology, Delta Capricorni's representation of a flexible tail is reflected in its association with both good and bad fortune alike. It was one of the fifteen Behenian stars of medieval astrology, associated with chalcedony, marjoram and the kabbalistic symbol .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108884", "title": "Tony Ganios", "text": "Tony Ganios\n\nTony Ganios (born October 21, 1959) is an American actor. He is probably best known for his roles as heroic tough-guy Perry in the 1979 film \"The Wanderers\", and Anthony 'Meat' Tuperello in the 1982 comedy \"Porky's\" and its sequels.\n\nGanios was born on October 21, 1959 in Brooklyn, New York, and is of Greek ancestry.\n\nAt the age of 18, Ganios was 'forced' into the film-industry. His uncle Pete forced him to quit his power-lifting session at the 'Sheridan Square Gym' early, so that he could audition for a role in a movie directed by Philip Kaufman. As a result, Ganios made his debut appearance as tough-guy Perry in The Wanderers. His performance in \"The Wanderers\" drew attention and led to other roles. Ganios starred in the 1982 cult teen-sex comedy \"Porky's\" and its sequels. He appeared in the 1990 film \"Die Hard 2\" as Baker, a member of the terrorists. He also played a former football player turned mountain man in the John Belushi film \"Continental Divide\".\n\nGanios appeared in five episodes of the 1980s TV series \"Wiseguy\" as Mike \"Mooch\" Cacciatore, and he made a guest appearance in an episode of \"Scarecrow and Mrs. King\".\n\nGanios semi-retired from acting after \"Die Hard 2\" to be an insurance agent in New York City, with brief appearances in three films between 1991 and 1993.\n\nIn 2012, Ganios reunited with some of his \"Porky's\" co-stars to launch a Kickstarter campaign in an effort to produce a teen-sex comedy to be called \"Daddies' Girls\". As of 2017 the film has not been produced and its official website (daddiesgirlsthemovie.com) is inactive.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108886", "title": "Three Floyds Brewing", "text": "Three Floyds Brewing\n\nThree Floyds Brewing is a brewery founded in 1996 by brothers Nick and Simon and their father Mike Floyd in Hammond, Indiana. Since 2000, the brewery has been located in Munster, Indiana. In 2005, Three Floyds opened a brewpub adjacent to the brewery in Munster.\n\nIn 2011, an article in \"The Washington Post\" said that Three Floyds \"has won over the beer geek elite\", and \"has been making the best beers on the planet for four of the past five years—at least according to the more than 1 million beer reviews logged each year on RateBeer.com. (In 2008, it slipped to second place.)\"\n\nIn 2018, Three Floyds cracked the top 50 list of Brewing companies by sales volume reaching the #39 spot in craft brewery sales and #49 spot in overall brewery sales. \n\nThree Floyds produces more than a dozen year-round beers as well as numerous seasonal beers. \n\n3 Floyd's Dark Lord is the brewery's premier barrel-aged beer. Dubbed a \"demonic Russian-Style Imperial Stout\" brewed with coffee, Mexican vanilla and Indian sugar. Purchasing a bottle of Dark Lord requires attendance to the brewery's annual \"Dark Lord Day\" festival which regularly features beer exchanges, heavy metal music and food trucks. A ticket nets attendees four bottles of Dark Lord and a fifth variant flavor of Dark Lord. Attendance at this event is now limited to 6,000 via pre-sold tickets, after crowd control problems in the past. As of 2018, Dark Lord sits as one of the top 100 beers in the world according to RateBeer.com. \n\nIn 2014 it was announced that plans for a distillery were in the works across the street from the brewery. The distillery will produce gin, rum, vodka and other spirits for sale and tasting. The distillery opened on June 21st, 2019. \n\nIn 2018 plans were unveiled for the expansion of Three Floyds 57,000 sq. ft. facility to a larger, campus-like setting with a bigger brewpub, retail area, office space and parking, as well as a larger brewing facility. Construction is set to begin after Dark Lord Day 2019 with no set timetable for completion. \n\nIn 2018, comics writer Brian Azzarello teamed up with the brewery to produce a series of comics produced by Image Comics featuring characters based on Three Floyds beers including the Alpha King. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108899", "title": "Julien Chouinard", "text": "Julien Chouinard\n\nJulien Chouinard, (February 4, 1929 – February 6, 1987) was a Canadian lawyer, civil servant and Puisne Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada.\n\nBorn in Quebec City, the son of Joseph Julien Chouinard and Berthe Cloutier, he received a BA in 1948 and a LL.L. in 1951 from Université Laval. As a Rhodes Scholar, he received a BA in 1953 from Oxford University. In 1953, he was called to the Quebec Bar and started to practice law. He also taught law at Université Laval.\n\nIn 1965, he joined the Quebec civil service as deputy minister of Justice. In 1968, he was appointed Secretary General of the Executive Council of Quebec. He ran unsuccessfully as the Progressive Conservative candidate for the House of Commons of Canada for the Quebec riding of Matane in the 1968 federal election. In recognition of his contribution to public service, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada in 1974. In 1974, he was appointed to the Court of Appeal of Quebec. In 1979, Prime Minister Joe Clark appointed him to the Supreme Court, and he served until his death from brain cancer in 1987. He is buried in the Cimetière Notre-Dame-de-Belmont.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108905", "title": "Young Fabians", "text": "Young Fabians\n\nThe Young Fabians is the under age 31 section of the Fabian Society, a socialist society in the United Kingdom that is affiliated to the Labour Party. The Young Fabians operate as a membership-driven think tank that organises policy debates, research projects, publications, conferences, and international delegations. The organisation holds no collective position on policy.\n\nThe Fabian Society was founded by a group of young idealists in the late 19th century. For example, H. G. Wells was 27 when he joined the Committee as was George Bernard Shaw. However, by the middle of the 20th century, the average age of active members was relatively elderly. In order to encourage more young people to join the society, a Young Fabian Group was proposed.\n\nThe Young Fabian Group for members of the Fabian society 30 years of age or younger was officially convened in May 1960 at a meeting organised by Fabian Society assistant General Secretary, Richard Leonard.\n\nFrom small beginnings, the Young Fabians produced a steady stream of pamphlets through the 1960s and 1970s, and produced some 50 by 1980.\nThe Young Fabians became less prominent during the 1980s while the Labour Party re-organised its youth wing, partly based on a template set out in a Young Fabian pamphlet. However, in the early 1990s, the group underwent a revival and played an important role in the discussion of the next stage of modernisation within the Labour Party. In 1994, members of the Young Fabians were part of the campaign to elect Tony Blair leader of the party and then the campaign to change Clause IV, although the group itself took no formal position on these issues.\n\nIn recent years several controversial pamphlets have been produced including \"Students as Citizens\" which advocated granting more choice to university students and \"The Case for Socialism\" which set out the socialist themes and actions of the Government of Tony Blair. In 2014 pamphlet number 63 \"One Nation\" was launched, which examined Ed Miliband's vision for Britain. The most recent pamphlet, number 65 \"Closing the Gap\", explores how the Labour Party can remould the NHS to ensure it is fit to face the new challenges of an ageing population. \n\nThe Group's quarterly magazine \"Anticipations\", named after the title of an essay by H. G. Wells, was founded in 1996. It was originally edited by Liam Byrne, Tom Happold, Mark Leonard and Emma Beswick.\n\nUntil 2015 the organisation's activities were run directly by its Executive Committee, which undertook a programme of speaker events, seminars, receptions and policy pamphlets. This was changed fundamentally with the adoption of a new constitution in 2015 after a campaign led by Alex Adranghi and Martin Edobor with the document drafted by Alex Adranghi and Luke John Davies. Since then, the focus of running programmes have been devolved to members through member-led networks centered around topics related to core issues like International Affairs, Health and Education. The steering groups of each network are elected annually by the membership at a special Network AGM at the start of each calendar year.\n\nThe Young Fabians are currently affiliated as an observer member of the Young European Socialists (YES).\n\nThe Young Fabians' statement of purpose is to avoid commitment to any one brand of socialism and to provide a \"forum for different points of view within the left\".\n\nUnlike other youth socialist groups, the Young Fabians has maintained this position of neutrality on policy issues, upholding the Fabian Society's principle that its role is merely to determine whether a matter or position is suitable for discussion, not to take a group position on an issue. This has helped the group survive through many changes in the Labour Party without being identified as part of the left or right wing factions.\n\nAlong with the Fabian Society the Young Fabians is affiliated to the Labour Party. The group officially maintain a policy of neutrality with decisions internal the Labour Party such as internal elections. The group has the right to appoint one member to the Executive Committee of Young Labour.\n\nFull members of the group must not be members of political parties that oppose Labour. A significant minority of members do not hold membership of the Labour Party. Members of other political parties are able to join the group as associate members.\n\nThe book \"The Modernisers' Dilemma\" cites the Young Fabians as one of the most important groups within the Labour Party. As an organised network of younger, generally well-educated party members, often researchers or academics, the Young Fabians is one of the main social and informal networks through which political activity is carried out. However, by taking no formal policy stance, the Young Fabians has been able to include both supporters and sceptics of past Labour governments.\n\nThe Young Fabians also fills the gap between student politics and mainstream Labour Party politics, a gap which is filled in the Liberal Democrat and Conservative Party structures by having youth wings which include graduates up to the age of 30.\n\nYoung Fabian alumni have played significant roles in British public life, with many entering the British parliament and holding offices of state. Young Fabian alumni include Professor Colin Crouch, Brian Lapping, Howard Glennerster, Giles Radice, Conrad Russell, Michael Crick, Peter Mandelson, Jack Straw, Stephen Twigg, Ann Taylor, Vince Cable John Mann, Phil Woolas, Oona King, Lorna Fitzsimons, Paul Richards, Tom Watson, Liam Byrne, Stella Creasy, Seema Malhotra, Sunder Katwala, Mark Leonard, Jessica Asato, Conor McGinn and Sara Ibrahim.\n\nIn recent years the Young Fabians has seen a surge in membership, which had grown to more than 2,000 members as of 2017 from around 1,400 in 2014. It regularly holds a series of events including policy seminars, debates and receptions in foreign embassies, and publishes the quarterly magazine \"Anticipations\". The Young Fabians are distinct from other youth movements in their focus on ideas and policy. Like the Fabian Society, the Young Fabians promote the discussion and dissemination of ideas to help shape Labour Party policy. It also holds regular social events, with its annual summer boat party on the Thames having become a popular fixture in the Westminster calendar for young members and activists.\n\nWhile primarily a research based organisation, the Young Fabians also held a series of campaign day events for members across the UK during the 2017 general election, including in Reading, Oxford, Wolverhampton and Birmingham as well as London, and have run a number of international campaigning trips. Recent campaigning visits include going to Florida for the 2016 presidential election and to Sweden for their 2014 general election. \n\nUnder the auspices of the Young Fabians International Network, Young Fabian research trips have also been conducted in recent years to China (2015), Brussels (2015), Sweden (2015), Israel and Palestine (2015 and 2016) and the United States (2016).\n\nIn 2010 the Young Fabians launched two special interest groups focused on finance and science industries. These networks set out to bring together those involved or who have an interest in the subject, and link their specialist knowledge into policy debate. In 2011 a Health Network was launched. In 2013 saw the brief existence of Foreign Policy and Creative Industry networks, and in 2014 a Local Government Network was intended to open. 2015 saw the largest expansion of networks with the founding of Education, International and Communications networks, followed by further addition of the Law and Technology networks in 2016. \n\nEach network is run by a steering committee who manage their own annual programme, and since 2012 the networks have elected their own Chairs and other officers.\n\nThe Executives of the Young Fabians are elected in the run up to the November AGM and hold office for one year. Recent Executives and Chairs have included:\n\n\nFormer Projects\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108907", "title": "List of films shot in Baltimore", "text": "List of films shot in Baltimore\n\nMovies, TV shows, and documentaries filmed in Baltimore:\n\n"}
{"id": "2108918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108918", "title": "Unicoi", "text": "Unicoi\n\nUnicoi may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2108919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108919", "title": "Scott Jurek", "text": "Scott Jurek\n\nScott Gordon Jurek (born October 26, 1973) is an American ultramarathoner, author, and public speaker. Throughout his running career, Jurek was one of the most dominant ultramarathon runners in the world, winning the Hardrock Hundred (2007), the Badwater Ultramarathon (2005, 2006), the Spartathlon (2006, 2007, 2008), and the Western States 100 Mile Endurance Run (1999–2005). In 2010, at the 24-Hour World Championships in Brive-la-Gaillarde, France, Jurek won a silver medal behind Shingo Inoue and set a new US record for distance run in 24 hours with 165.7 miles (an average pace of 8 minutes and 42 seconds per mile). Jurek has followed a vegetarian diet since 1997, and a vegan diet since 1999.\n\nRaised in Proctor, Minnesota, Jurek is of part Polish descent. He is the son of Lynn (Swapinski) and Gordon Jurek. His childhood involved a strong connection with nature developed through hunting, fishing, and camping with his family. Jurek began trail running as a child but did not run long distances until his sophomore year in high school when he started cross training with running to prepare for Nordic skiing. Although he hated running at first, after spending summers running on trails with ski poles, he found a new passion for trail running. On a challenge from training partner Dusty Olson, Jurek ran the Minnesota Voyageur 50 Mile in 1994, placing second in his first attempt at an ultramarathon, without even having run a marathon in training. Olson later served as Jurek's pacer in many races.\n\nJurek was the valedictorian of his high school class at Proctor High School. He attended the College of St. Scholastica in Duluth, Minnesota, graduating with a bachelor's degree in Health Science in 1996 and a master's degree in Physical Therapy in 1998.\n\nDuring his college years, Jurek continued to compete in the 50 mile Minnesota Voyageur, finishing second in 1994 and 1995 and winning the race in 1996, 1997, and 1998, when he set the current course record of 6:41:16. After graduation, he moved to Seattle, where he began competing on a national level, in 1998 winning the Zane Grey Highline Trail 50 Mile Run and the McKenzie River Trail Run 50K, and placing second in his first 100-mile race, the Angeles Crest.\n\nIn 1999, Jurek won the 100-mile Western States Endurance Run on his first attempt, defeating five-time champion Tim Twietmeyer and becoming only the second non-Californian to win the race. He would go on to win Western States a record seven consecutive times. In 2004, he bested Mike Morton's 1997 time to set a new course record of 15 hours and 36 minutes.\n\nOver the next five years, Jurek notched victories in the McDonald Forest 50K (1999), the Bull Run Run 50 Mile (1999), the (2000, 2001, 2002, 2004), the Diez Vista 50K (2000-course record, 2003), the Silvertip 50K (2002), and the Miwok 100K (2002, 2003, 2004). In 2004, he completed the \"Ultra Running Grand Slam\" by finishing Western States, the Leadville 100 (in which he was runner-up), the Vermont 100, and the Wasatch Front 100. He traveled to Hong Kong with Team Montrail to win the 2001 and 2002 Oxfam Trailwalker 100K team trophies, both years setting new course records. Jurek's 2001 teammates were Dave Terry, Ian Torrence, and Nate McDowell. In 2002, he ran with McDowell, Brandon Sybrowsky, and Karl Meltzer. Jurek was also on the winning team of the 2003 Hasegawa Cup Japan Mountain Endurance Run.\n\nIn 2005, just a few weeks after winning Western States, Jurek set a new course record in the Badwater Ultramarathon, widely considered one of the world's most difficult races. Jurek came from behind to win despite temperatures of , dealing with the heat by periodically stopping to immerse himself in a cooler of ice.\n\nJurek repeated his Badwater victory in 2006, a year that also saw his first of three consecutive victories in the Spartathlon, a 153-mile race between Athens and Sparta in Greece. In 2007, he also won the Hardrock Hundred, setting a new course record.\n\nIn 2006, Jurek traveled to Mexico's Copper Canyon with a group of runners including Christopher McDougall and Jenn Shelton to participate in a race against the Tarahumara organized by Micah True, also known as \"Caballo Blanco\". Jurek narrowly lost to the fastest Tarahumara runner, Arnulfo Quimare, but in 2007 Jurek returned to win the race. McDougall's book about the 2006 trip, \"Born to Run\", significantly raised Jurek's profile.\n\nOn May 14, 2010, in Brive-la-Gaillarde, France, Jurek broke the USATF all-surface record for distance run by an American in 24 hours with 165.7 miles (266.6 km). His finish earned him a silver medal and helped the American men's team take a bronze overall.\n\nJurek was one of dozens who helped in the search for ultrarunner Micah True after True went missing. True was later found deceased. Chris McDougall tweeted: \"Caballo had the only funeral he would have wanted: his friends spent days running in the wilderness in his honor.\"\n\nOn April 14, 2014, Jurek and Rickey Gates became the first North Americans to complete the Bob Graham Round in the UK's rugged Lake District under 24 hours.\n\nIn May 2015, Jurek began an attempt to break the supported Appalachian Trail thru-hike speed record, which was 46 days, 11 hours, and 20 minutes to complete the 2,168-mile route. On July 13, 2015, he completed the trail, breaking the old record by three hours. Jurek's celebration at the finish line sparked controversy when he received three citations from Baxter State Park rangers who said that his hiking party was too large, he consumed alcohol against park policies, and when he spilled champagne it counted as littering. Jurek disputed the citations publicly. The littering charge was dismissed, the group size charge was also dismissed, and Jurek paid $500 for consuming alcohol against park policies.\n\nJurek is an advocate of plant-based eating for health and ethical/environmental reasons, and he cites his diet as the key to his athletic performance and recovery. He gave up eating meat in 1997 and became totally plant based in 1999, motivated by the belief that poor nutrition was responsible for the chronic illnesses he saw in his family and in his physical therapy patients.\n\nWhen Jurek was very young, his mother was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. He credits her as his major source of strength in the 24-hour race.\n\nJurek co-authored a memoir Steve Friedman titled \"Eat & Run\". It was published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt on June 5, 2012. \"Eat & Run\" was a \"New York Times\" bestseller</ref>, debuting at #7 in non-fiction and later translated into twenty languages. He wrote a follow-up book, \"North\", with his wife Jenny Jurek in 2018 about his attempt at the fastest known time on the Appalachian Trail.\n\n\n\nJurek lives in Boulder, Colorado with his wife Jenny. They have two children, Ravenna and Evergreen. \n\nJurek enjoys running, yoga, cycling, hiking, Nordic skiing, and trail maintenance. Jurek is an accomplished amateur chef who enjoys cooking plant-based meals inspired by his world travels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108930", "title": "Albert Mohler", "text": "Albert Mohler\n\nRichard Albert Mohler Jr. (born 1959) is an American historical theologian and the ninth president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky. He has been described as \"one of America's most influential evangelicals\".\n\nMohler was born on October 19, 1959, in Lakeland, Florida. During his Lakeland years he attended Southside Baptist Church. Mohler attended college at Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton in Palm Beach County as a Faculty Scholar. He then received a Bachelor of Arts from Samford University, a private, coeducational Baptist-affiliated college in Birmingham, Alabama. His Master of Divinity and Doctor of Philosophy degrees in systematic and historical theology were conferred by the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary.\n\nIn addition to his presidency at SBTS, Mohler was the host of \"The Albert Mohler Program\", a nationwide radio show \"devoted to engaging contemporary culture with Christian beliefs.\" He currently produces a weekday podcast on the news, \"The Briefing\", in which he provides commentary on current events from a Christian worldview. He is former vice chairman of the board of Focus on the Family and a member of the Council on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood. \"Christianity Today\" recognized Mohler as a leader among American evangelicals, and in 2003 \"Time\" called him the \"reigning intellectual of the evangelical movement in the U.S.\" Mohler has presented lectures or addresses at a variety of conservative evangelical universities.\n\nIn 2018, Mohler labeled turmoil in the Southern Baptist Convention as the SBC's \"own horrifying #MeToo moment\" and said it stemmed from \"an unorganized conspiracy of silence\" about sexual misconduct and abuse. He wrote that the SBC's \"issues are far deeper and wider\" than the controversy surrounding Paige Patterson, who’d been moved that day from president to president emeritus of Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary.\n\nIn early 2019, explosive newspaper reports of sexual abuse by church leaders and volunteers shook the Southern Baptist Convention, and Mohler called for independent third-party investigations. Just days after the Houston Chronicle’s 2019 report of allegations of hundreds of sexual abuse cases (some of which were not reported to law enforcement), Mohler apologized in an interview with the newspaper for supporting a religious leader who was accused of helping conceal sexual abuses at his former church. Some have lauded Mohler, while others have questioned the timing and motivations of these comments. One day after Mohler's remarks to the Houston Chronicle, his Southern Baptist Theological Seminary office released a related statement by him.\n\nMohler joined the staff of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky, in 1983 as Coordinator of Foundation Support. In 1987, he became Director of Capital Funding, a post he held until 1989. From 1983 to 1989, while still a student, he had served as assistant to then-President Roy Honeycutt. In February 1993, Mohler was appointed the ninth President of the seminary by the institution's board of trustees to succeed Honeycutt.\n\nMohler served as editor of \"The Christian Index\", the biweekly newsletter of the Georgia Baptist Convention. From 1985 to 1993 he was Associate Editor of the bi-monthly \"Preaching Magazine\". Mohler also served on the Advisory Council for the 2001 English Standard Version (ESV) of the Bible. Mohler previously blogged on Crosswalk.com, a web site maintained by Salem Web Network of Richmond, Virginia. Mohler currently blogs on his website and hosts \"The Briefing,\" a daily podcast on current events from the Christian perspective. Mohler also hosts \"Thinking in Public,\" an extended interview podcast on theological and cultural issues.\n\nIn 2008, Al Mohler declined to sign An Evangelical Manifesto, publishing a lengthy explanation for his decision. Mohler is an evangelical and an exclusivist, which means that he believes Jesus is the only way through which an individual can attain salvation or have a relationship with God the Father. As a Calvinist, Mohler believes that human salvation is a free gift from God which cannot be earned by human action or will and is only given to the elect. He has publicly advanced this position with respect to Judaism, Islam, and Catholicism. He recently stated that \"any belief system, any world view, whether it's Zen Buddhism or Hinduism or dialectical materialism for that matter, Marxism, that keeps persons captive and keeps them from coming to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, yes, is a demonstration of Satanic power.\" He believes Muslims are motivated by demonic power and in the months after the September 11, 2001 attacks, Mohler characterized Islamic views of Jesus as false and destructive:\n\nMohler appeared on MSNBC's Donahue on August 20, 2002. The subject was Christian evangelization of Jews. Mohler and Michael L. Brown, a Messianic Jew, debated this subject as well as Mohler's insistence that salvation lies exclusively in the personal acceptance of Christ before the afterlife with Donahue, a Roman Catholic, and Shmuley Boteach, an Orthodox Jew.\n\nOn April 15, 2003, Mohler was interviewed by \"Time\" on the subject of evangelizing Iraqi Muslims in the form of Christian aid groups.\n\nOn May 5, 2003, Mohler appeared on NPR's \"Fresh Air\" with Terry Gross to ponder the issue of evangelization of the Iraqis. At issue was whether the coupling of evangelizing with basic human aid relief might be perceived as aggressive or coercive by the Iraqi people, and whether such a perception, if widespread, might place other relief workers in jeopardy. Mohler argued that biblical, evangelical Christianity is not uniquely American, but exists as a movement throughout the world, so that Christian witnessing is not, in his view, to be interpreted as a move on the part of any single nation against the religion of another. At the same time, however, Mohler acknowledged the need for \"sensitivity,\" and distanced himself from the idea that religion coerced. When pressed, Mohler expressed support for the idea of religious freedom as a theoretical matter of law.\n\nOn December 18, 2004, Mohler debated retired Episcopal bishop John Shelby Spong on \"Faith Under Fire\", a program hosted by Lee Strobel and appearing on PAX, a Christian television network. The subject was the historicity and truthfulness of the Bible.\n\nOn December 19, 2013, Mohler appeared on CNN to discuss the controversy surrounding comments made by Phil Robertson of Duck Dynasty. GLAAD National Spokesman Wilson Cruz was also on the program.\n\nOn November 8–9, 2004, Mohler spoke at the annual meeting of the Florida Baptist State Convention.\n\nOn May 21, 2005, Mohler gave the commencement address at Union University in Jackson, Tennessee. Mohler told graduates they could display the glory of God by telling and defending the truth, sharing the gospel, engaging the culture, changing the world, loving the church and showing the glory of God in their own lives.\n\nOn February 25, 2014, Mohler delivered a Forum Lecture in the Marriott Center Arena at Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah. The title of Mohler's lecture was, \"Strengthen the Things that Remain: Human Dignity, Human Rights, and Human Flourishing in a Dangerous Age.\"\n\nMohler was on the board of directors of Focus on the Family. In this role he was one of the principal organizers of Justice Sunday, a nationally televised event broadcast from Highview Baptist Church, Mohler's home church, in Louisville on April 24, 2005. Mohler shared the stage with Charles Colson and Focus on the Family founder James Dobson. US Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist appeared at the event via videotape. Another host of the program was Family Research Council president Tony Perkins.\n\nThe purpose of the broadcast was to mobilize the conservative base in lobbying the United States Senate to curtail debate on the nominations to the federal judiciary made by George W. Bush.\n\nMohler believes the Roman Catholic Church is a \"false church\" that teaches a \"false gospel\" and that the Pope's office is not legitimate. During a March 13, 2014 podcast of \"The Briefing\", Mohler stated that Evangelicals \"simply cannot accept the legitimacy of the papacy\" and that \"to do otherwise would be to compromise biblical truth and reverse the Reformation.\" Mohler has denounced Pope Francis for his perceived left-leaning leadership.\n\nMohler stated that he was one of the original signatories to the \"\" because it is a limited ecumenical statement of Christian conviction on the topics of abortion, euthanasia and gay marriage, and not a wide-ranging theological document that subverts confessional integrity. He emphasized that he signed the document in spite of his deep theological disagreements with the Catholic Church.\n\nMohler spoke in June 2004, about married adults who choose not to have children.\nMohler has also been critical of birth control methods that prevent implantation of the fertilized egg, which he believes \"involve nothing less than an early abortion.\" He has attempted to bring about a new reflection on the topic within evangelical opinion.\n\nIn 2017, Mohler signed the Nashville Statement.\n\nAccording to Mohler, yoga practice is not consistent with Christianity.\nAfter voicing his stance on the topic, Mohler stated that he was 'surprised by the depth of the commitment to yoga found on the part of many who identify as Christians'.\n\nMohler has argued that libertarianism is idolatrous, and as a comprehensive world view or fundamental guiding principle for human life, is inconsistent with Christian ideals. He is a proponent of personal liberty, but believes such liberties can run into problems when applied in the political sphere. The more limited economic libertarianism, on the other hand, can be consistent with the \"comprehensive world view that Christianity puts forward.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108935", "title": "Philip Martin (screenwriter)", "text": "Philip Martin (screenwriter)\n\nPhilip Martin (born 1938 in Liverpool) is an English television screenwriter. He created the BBC television drama series \"Gangsters\" in the 1970s and later wrote two television serials for \"Doctor Who\" during Colin Baker's tenure as the Sixth Doctor in the 1980s.\n\nHis early work included regular series such as \"Z-Cars\" in the late 1960s/early 1970s, but his most famous work is the postmodern television series \"Gangsters\". This was an examination of race seen through an increasingly surreal vision of Birmingham's criminal underworld. Beginning as an acclaimed one-off edition of \"Play for Today\" in 1975, it was followed by two series of 6 episodes each in 1976 and 1978. Martin appeared in the series in several roles, including as himself.\n\nHis later work includes \"Tandoori Nights\" (1985), \"Star Cops\" (1987), \"Virtual Murder\" (1992), several episodes of \"Hetty Wainthropp Investigates\" and \"Luifel & Luifel\" (2001).\nHe wrote the \"Doctor Who\" serials \"Vengeance on Varos\" (1985) and \"The Trial of a Time Lord: Mindwarp\" (1986). He also wrote a script called \"Mission to Magnus\" which featured the character Sil from his previous televised serials. That script was never filmed when the show was put on hiatus in 1985. A novelised version of the script written by Martin was released by Target Books in 1990, and a Big Finish audio drama based on the serial was released in December 2009. He also wrote a \"Doctor Who\" gamebook called \"Invasion of the Ormazoids\" (1986) as part of the \"Make your own adventure with Doctor Who\" range. His most recent contribution to the series were \"The Creed of the Kromon\" (2004) and \"Antidote to Oblivion\" (2013), as Big Finish audio releases.\n\nMartin's stage play \"Thee and Me\", a work dealing with the effects of ozone depletion in the atmosphere in the year 2040, was staged at London's Lyttelton Theatre in February 1980, director Michael Rudman, but was withdrawn early from the repertoire because of poor reviews and \"appalling\" ticket sales.\n"}
{"id": "2108936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108936", "title": "Deutsche Bundesbahn", "text": "Deutsche Bundesbahn\n\nThe Deutsche Bundesbahn or DB (German Federal Railway) was formed as the state railway of the newly established Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) on 7 September 1949 as a successor of the Deutsche Reichsbahn-Gesellschaft (DRG). The DB remained the state railway of West Germany until after German reunification, when it was merged with the former East German Deutsche Reichsbahn (DR) to form Deutsche Bahn AG, which came into existence on 1 January 1994.\n\nAfter World War II, each of the military governments of the Allied Occupation Zones in Germany were \"de facto\" in charge of the German railways in their respective territories. On 10 October 1946, the railways in the British and American occupation zones formed the \"Deutsche Reichsbahn im Vereinigten Wirtschaftsgebiet\" (German Imperial Railway in the united economic area), while on 25 June 1947, the provinces under French occupation formed the Südwestdeutsche Eisenbahn. With the formation of the FRG these successor organisations of the DRG were reunited, a situation codified by the Federal Railways Law \"(Bundesbahngesetz)\" that was ratified on 13 December 1951. The railways in the Saarland joined on 1 January 1957.\n\nThe DB was a state-owned company that, with few local exceptions, exercised a monopoly concerning rail transport throughout West Germany. The DB was placed under the control of the \"Bundesverkehrsministerium\" (Federal Transport Ministry). With its headquarters in Frankfurt, in 1985 the DB was the third-largest employer in the FRG, with a strength of 322,383 employees. A special transit police \"(Bahnpolizei)\" provided security. The catering needs of the DB were supplied by the “Deutsche Schlafwagen- und Speisewagengesellschaft” (DSG), later “Deutsche Service-Gesellschaft der Bahn”, as the former DRG caterer Mitropa was situated in East Germany and serviced the Deutsche Reichsbahn in the GDR.\n\nAs West Berlin lay surrounded by the GDR, local and long-distance railway services in the divided city were provided exclusively by the DR, although the DB operated a ticket office in the Hardenbergstraße near the main West Berlin passenger station Zoologischer Garten.\n\nThe immediate tasks in the early years after the end of World War II involved the reconstruction of the heavily damaged infrastructure and the replenishment of locomotives and rolling stock. Contrary to the Deutsche Reichsbahn in the GDR, the DB was not subject to reparations and benefited from the influx of capital through the Marshall Plan. During the early years, new steam engines were constructed and placed into service. The last new steam locomotive type was the Class 10, which entered service in 1957. Only two units of class 10 were built. In 1959 DB took the last steam locomotive delivery when the last of the class 23 locomotives was delivered. Soon, with increase in mass motorization, the railway started to lose passenger volume. As a result, rail buses were introduced on some lines, while other smaller volume lines were closed. Main lines became increasingly electrified. The later years of this epoch saw a decrease and eventual phasing out of steam engines, with the last one to cease regular service in 1977. Traction was provided increasingly by diesel and electric engines. With increased use of diesel and electric locomotives, progress was made in decreasing travel time for passengers. New types of passenger trains were introduced such as the Trans Europ Express and the InterCity.\n\nTransport of goods also had to compete with the ever-increasing competition from trucks. Furthermore, traditional services such as coal and iron ore shipments declined with the changes in the overall economy.\n\nAfter the introduction of the TGV in France, the ICE system of high speed passenger trains was developed. Significant stretches of new high speed track, like the Hanover-Würzburg high-speed rail line, had to be laid or upgraded. Other characteristics of this epoch are the introduction of computer systems and the steps taken towards an integrated system of European railways. Externally, rolling stock displayed more colourful and varied livery schemes.\n\nThe two German states were reunified in October 1990 with both DB and DR now being special funds of the German Federal government. Article 26 of the Unification Treaty (Einigungsvertrag) stipulated the DR to be merged with DB at the earliest opportunity. The DB, in the interim, initiated new coordinations in businesses with the DR, started IC and ICE services into Berlin, and extended IC and ICE services to major cities in eastern Germany. Administratively, on 1 June 1992 the DB and DR formed a joint board of directors which governed both entities. However, the merger was delayed over the structure of merged railway due to concerns by German politicians on the ever-increasing annual operating deficits incurred by the DB and DR. After several years of delays, the Bundesverkehrsministerium proposed a comprehensive reform of the German railway system \"(Bahnreform)\", which was approved by the Bundestag in 1993 and went into effect on 1 January 1994. At the heart of the reform package was a) the merger of the DB and the DR and b) the change of the form of the enterprise into a stock corporation. Nevertheless, the Deutsche Bahn AG was still publicly owned.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108937", "title": "M-143 (Michigan highway)", "text": "M-143 (Michigan highway)\n\nM-143, also known as Michigan Avenue, is a previously unsigned spur state trunkline highway in the south central region of the US state of Michigan. The M-143 portion of Michigan Avenue runs from the East Lansing city limit to a junction with M-43 at Grand River Avenue. This highway is the second time that there has been an M-143 in Michigan. The first was a connection to the original Cheboygan State Park. The current is a remnant of M-43 in the Lansing area.\n\nMichigan Avenue travels through the Greater Lansing area on an east–west axis which runs through the Capitol Building in downtown Lansing. While disconnected between Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Capitol Avenue in the downtown area, the eastern portion of Michigan Avenue begins at the Capitol and runs easterly, ending in downtown East Lansing. For much of its length in the City of Lansing, Michigan Avenue is a five-lane thoroughfare maintained by the city. Just west of US Highway 127 (US 127), the street transitions into a six-lane boulevard and proceeds easterly to the East Lansing city limit. From that point easterly for about a mile (1.6 km) to M-43 at Grand River Avenue in downtown East Lansing, Michigan Avenue is state-maintained as a four- to six-lane boulevard designated M-143. Michigan Avenue here is the northern boundary of the main campus of Michigan State University near the Red Cedar River. This highway designation was not signed on Michigan Avenue for a number of years, even though the street was under the control of the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT). In 2011, MDOT's traffic surveys showed that on average, between 19,503 and 20,308 vehicles used the trunkline daily. No section of M-143 is listed on the National Highway System, a network of roads important to the country's economy, defense, and mobility.\n\nThe first usage of M-143 was designated from US 27 (now M-27) south of Cheboygan eastward for about a mile on Lincoln Avenue to the original Cheboygan State Park in 1931. The park was removed from the state park system during World War II. The highway along Lincoln Avenue was transferred back to local control in late 1960.\n\nIn late 1962, US 16 was decommissioned in the state of Michigan as Interstate 96 (I-96) was completed. With the removal of US 16, several highways were rerouted through Lansing. M-43 was rerouted along M-78 to Grand River Avenue and then along Grand River Avenue to replace US 16 east to Webberville. The former M-43 on Michigan Avenue east of Cedar and Larch streets was redesignated M-143.\n\nAs part of the creation of the Capitol Loop, M-143 and Michigan Avenue in Lansing was partially transferred back to local control. The section between Cedar and Larch streets was retained as part of the new Capitol Loop and the remainder inside the city of Lansing was removed from the state trunkline highway system on October 13, 1989. At the time, M-143 in the City of East Lansing was not transferred, and MDOT removed the signage, creating an unsigned trunkline.\n\nSince then, MDOT has used the trunkline's designation on maps and in brochures related to a 2013 reconstruction project on Michigan Avenue in East Lansing. Signage has also been erected, and the highway has been restored to the official state map in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108944", "title": "Tragg and the Sky Gods", "text": "Tragg and the Sky Gods\n\nTragg and the Sky Gods was a comic book title published by Gold Key Comics in the mid-1970s. The series was created by writer Donald F. Glut and artist Jesse Santos. Later, artist Dan Spiegle would work on the title.\n\nThe character first appeared in \"Mystery Comics Digest\" #3, published in April 1972. His next appearance was in \"Mystery Comics Digest\" #9 in January 1973. A series, \"Tragg and the Sky Gods\", would then run from #1 (June 1975) to #8 (February 1977). The last original Tragg story appeared in \"Gold Key Spotlight\" #9 in September 1977. Whitman, the successor to Gold Key, would later reprint the first issue as #9 in May 1982.\n\n\"Tragg and the Sky Gods\" was a mix of science-fiction and prehistoric man. The book told of a group of advanced aliens who landed on Earth in the distant past and experimented on the Neanderthals they found there, producing two Cro-Magnons, who would become Tragg and his mate, Lorn. Tragg and Lorn would thus be the ancestors of all modern humans. Writer Glut tied Tragg into other series he created at Gold Key, by having Tragg's Neanderthal brother Jarn appear in \"Dagar the Invincible\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2108957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108957", "title": "Marshall Wittmann", "text": "Marshall Wittmann\n\nMarshall Wittmann is an American pundit, author, and sometime political activist. On November 22, 2006, he was hired to be the communications director and spokesman for Senator Joe Lieberman (I-CT). Wittmann is a former senior fellow at the Progressive Policy Institute, a think tank affiliated with the Democratic Leadership Council. In 2012, he became the chief spokesman for AIPAC.\n\nWittmann served as the conservative Heritage Foundation's director of congressional relations, the Christian Coalition's director of legislative affairs, and as a senior fellow at the conservative Hudson Institute. In the first Bush Administration he served as the deputy assistant secretary for the Department of Health and Human Services. Wittmann also was the legislative representative with the National Association of Retired Federal Employees and a public affairs specialist with the National Treasury Employees Union. He holds both his bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Michigan.\n\nIn his blog, \"Bull Moose Blog\", Wittmann refers to himself in third-person as \"the Moose\". For example he writes \"The Moose has enjoyed the distinct pleasure of being labeled both a Republican squish and a Rovian Plant\". Wittmann borrowed his nickname from Teddy Roosevelt, whom Wittmann admires.\n\nHe retired his blog on November 17, 2006, and five days later, he was named the new Director of Communications for Senator Joseph Lieberman. His new role comes after a bitter campaign for the junior Senate seat in Connecticut where Lieberman defeated Ned Lamont; Wittmann was Lieberman's most prominent blog supporter and argued that Lamont's supporters were from the \"nutroots\".\n\nWittmann has changed his political party affiliation and often revamps his political philosophy. Wittmann describes himself as a member of the \"McCainiac wing of the Democratic Party\". \"McCainiac\" refers to senator John McCain, the Republican for whom Wittmann once worked for as a communications director and advisor. According to a 2004 \"The New York Sun\" article, Wittmann is a neo-conservative and social conservative who \"worship[s]\" McCain but split with the Republican Party to support John Kerry's candidacy for president and join the Progressive Policy Institute because of his split with the GOP over tax cuts. He called the Bush tax cuts in a time of war \"frivolous and obscene\" and said the Bush administration must give more support to poor families.\n\nThough the Progressive Policy Institute is an allegedly Democratic institution, both the organization and Wittmann have been heavily criticized among many progressives because of his defenses of the War on Terror and attacks on progressives. When President Bush's warrantless surveillance program was revealed, Wittmann dismissed concerns about its impact on civil liberties as \"fevered imaginations of graying baby boomers and twenty-something bloggers\" and opined that \"The Democratic Party is increasingly under the influence of modern day McGovernites\". Furthermore, Wittmann has claimed that vocal critics of President Bush constitute a \"left wing Cult of Bush Hatred\" because \"in the left wing universe, one must oppose everything the President supports.\" During the final days of the Lieberman-Lamont Primary Election, Marshall not only suggested that detractors of DLC member Joe Lieberman were hateful, left-wing fanatics, but even made accusations that some supporters of Ned Lamont were motivated by anti-Semitism.\n\nGlenn Greenwald writing at Salon.com said that \"the unabashed and undiluted use of anti-Semitism accusations as a partisan tool to win elections\" was a new low for Marshall Wittmann and labeled it as \"the basest and most divisive tactics of identity politics and religious tribalism.\"\n\nWittmann has also been critical of the Republican leadership: \"Republicans are about as serious about fiscal responsibility as Paris Hilton is about modesty,\" Wittmann said, according to \"The Washington Post\" on January 4, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108968", "title": "Deer Hunter (series)", "text": "Deer Hunter (series)\n\nDeer Hunter is a series of hunting simulation video games. Originally available for Windows platform published by WizardWorks, it was also published on Mac, and later on Game Boy Color, PlayStation 2, and mobile phones. The first game in the series was developed for only US$125,000, yet sold over a million copies and topped the PC game charts. It was an early success in the casual game market.\n\nThe original game was released in November 1997. In 2003 Southlogic Studios was commissioned by WizardWorks to develop \"Trophy Hunter 2003\" and because of Trophy Hunter's success, they took over the development of the Deer Hunter franchise, with \"Deer Hunter 2004\" and \"Deer Hunter 2005\", distributed by Atari. Glu Mobile acquired the entire franchise in April 2012. The original \"Deer Hunter\" and its sequel \"Deer Hunter II\" have also been released for Macintosh computers.\n\nGameplay usually takes place in a thick forest or meadow during different seasons of the year. Animals and objects other than deer can be seen while playing, including Bigfoot and UFOs in some incarnations, but these serve no purpose other than scenery. Some animals may be shot and killed, but the player receives no trophy and will be penalized if the animal was a protected species. In the latest versions, players can also manage a deer herd with deer growth and genetics deciding the traits of offspring.\n\nThe franchise's main line games are 1997's \"Deer Hunter\", 1998's \"Deer Hunter II\", 1999's \"Deer Hunter 3\", 2001's \"Deer Hunter 4\", 2001's \"Deer Hunter 5\", 2002's \"Deer Hunter 2003\", 2003's \"Deer Hunter 2004\", 2004's \"Deer Hunter 2005\", and 2008's \"Deer Hunter Tournament\". After the release of \"Deer Hunter Tournament\", every game bearing the franchise's name has been a mobile version, and there has not been a full-fledged game since; however, some of these versions have seen ports on Steam, to poor reviews.\n\nIn the United States, \"Deer Hunter 4\" sold 250,000 copies and earned $4.5 million by August 2006, after its release in November 2001. It was the country's 81st best-selling computer game between January 2000 and August 2006. Combined sales of all \"Deer Hunter\" games released between January 2000 and August 2006 had reached 1.4 million in the United States by the latter date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108981", "title": "KJZZ-TV", "text": "KJZZ-TV\n\nKJZZ-TV, virtual channel 14 (UHF digital channel 19), is an independent television station licensed to Salt Lake City, Utah, United States. The station is owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group, as part of a \"de facto\" triopoly with CBS affiliate KUTV (channel 2) and St. George-licensed MyNetworkTV affiliate KMYU (channel 12/2.2). The three stations share studios on South Main Street in downtown Salt Lake City; KJZZ's transmitter is located on Farnsworth Peak in the Oquirrh Mountains, southwest of Salt Lake City. The station has an extensive network of more than 80 broadcast translators that extend its over-the-air coverage throughout Utah, southwestern Wyoming, southeastern Idaho, southern and eastern Nevada, southwestern Colorado and northern Arizona.\n\nAn original construction permit was granted on December 6, 1984 for a full-power television station on UHF channel 14 to serve Salt Lake City and the surrounding area. The station was originally intended as an over-the-air subscription television service per its original permits, filed in 1979, but by the time the construction permit was granted, over-the-air subscription television had largely become obsolete and the subscription television application had already been dismissed. For nearly two years, the station did not even have call letters, but used its application ID, 790822KE as its callsign. In November 1986, the station took the call letters KGBS, then changed to KXIV (for the Roman numeral form of 14) in February 1988.\n\nAfter four replacement construction permits, KXIV was finally licensed on March 24, 1989 and began operations on April 14. Initially, the station offered a general entertainment format with cartoons, classic sitcoms, drama series, classic movies and religious shows. It was also Utah's home of \"The Disney Afternoon\" syndicated cartoon programming block. The station was originally owned by American Stores.\n\nIn February 1993, Larry H. Miller, owner of the Utah Jazz NBA franchise, purchased the station; the station later changed its call letters to KJZZ-TV to reflect both his ownership of the Utah Jazz and the station's status as the broadcast television outlet for Jazz games. The format remained the same initially but by the mid to late 1990s, talk and reality shows were mixed into the schedule.\n\nOn January 16, 1995, KJZZ became a charter affiliate of the United Paramount Network (UPN). However, in October 2000, KJZZ made national headlines when it warned it would assert its contractual right to back out of its affiliation contract with UPN if the network increased its \"urban/ethnic programming\" to more than two hours per week. From KJZZ's perspective, its designated market area has about the lowest percentage of African Americans for any media market in the United States. UPN officials were outraged at this demand and considering the network's national programming strategy, the two sides parted ways when UPN transferred the Salt Lake City affiliation to KAZG (channel 24, now KPNZ), a smaller station based in Ogden in January 2001, leaving KJZZ as an independent once again.\n\nIn the fall of 2005, KJZZ entered into a local marketing agreement with CBS owned-and-operated station KUTV (channel 2). As a result, second runs of shows like \"Dr. Phil\", \"Wheel Of Fortune\" and \"Jeopardy!\" were added to the schedule (the latter two shows had aired on KTVX, channel 4 for about two decades prior to moving to KJZZ) as well as newscasts from KUTV.\n\nOn February 22, 2006, News Corporation announced the launch of a new network called MyNetworkTV, which would be operated by Fox Television Stations and its syndication division Twentieth Television. MyNetworkTV was created to compete against another upstart network that would launch at the same time that September, The CW (an amalgamated network that originally consisted primarily of UPN and The WB's higher-rated programs) as well as to give UPN and WB stations that were not mentioned as becoming CW affiliates another option besides converting to independent stations. The station affiliated with MyNetworkTV when it launched on September 5, 2006. However, KJZZ ran the network's programming on tape delay at 11 p.m. initially (instead of the recommended 7 p.m. timeslot for the Mountain Time Zone), before later moving it to midnight. Possible reasons included the Jazz telecasts and the LMA with KUTV, though more likely the network's unsuccessful telenovela strategy did even worse in a market like Salt Lake City, which caused the move to a late-night slot to mute possible damage to the station's ratings, along with the racy content of the telenovelas which clashed with the views of KJZZ's management (a more diverse original programming strategy was abandoned after most of the network's stations signed charter affiliation agreements). KJZZ was also one of the few stations which never branded with any of MyNetworkTV's imaging.\n\nKJZZ dropped MyNetworkTV and became an independent station again on August 18, 2008. The MyNetworkTV affiliation then moved to St. George-based KCSG (also on channel 14), which covers the Salt Lake City area via coverage on local cable television providers (the programming service has since moved to KMYU, channel 12, which serves the Wasatch Front via KUTV's digital subchannel). In January 2009, DirecTV dropped KJZZ from its lineup of stations available to local viewers when the station's owner and the satellite provider could not come to an agreement on retransmission terms. KJZZ was returned to the DirecTV lineup on February 11, 2009.\n\nLarry H. Miller died on February 20, 2009. His son, Greg Miller, took over as CEO of the Larry H. Miller Group of Companies several months earlier. FCC records show a transfer of 48% ownership of the station to a trust to which Larry Miller's widow, Gail, was trustee, in April 2009. Thus, Gail Miller directly owned 48% of the station, with Larry Miller's sons holding the remainder. After the LMA between KJZZ and KUTV concluded in 2010, KSL-TV owner Bonneville International began managing KJZZ under a new LMA.\n\nOn April 4, 2016, Larry H. Miller Communications Corporation agreed to sell KJZZ-TV and eight translators to Sinclair Broadcast Group for $6.5 million. The sale was completed on June 17, 2016; concurrently, the station's relationship with Bonneville and KSL-TV ended, as KJZZ had become a sister station to KUTV.\n\nOn May 8, 2017, Sinclair entered into an agreement to acquire Tribune Media—owner of Fox affiliate KSTU (channel 13)—for $3.9 billion, plus the assumption of $2.7 billion in debt held by Tribune, pending regulatory approval by the FCC and the U.S. Department of Justice's Antitrust Division. While KJZZ-TV and KMYU (despite the fact that the latter's city of license, St. George, is technically a sub-market within the statewide Salt Lake City market) are not in conflict with existing FCC in-market ownership rules and would be retained by Sinclair in any event, the group was precluded from acquiring KSTU directly as broadcasters are not currently allowed to legally own more than two full-power television stations in a single market and both KUTV and KSTU rank among the four highest-rated stations in the Salt Lake City market in total day viewership (Sinclair CEO Christopher Ripley cited Salt Lake City as one of three markets, out of fourteen where ownership conflicts exist between the two groups, where the proposed acquisition would most likely result in divestitures). As such, the companies would have been required to sell either KUTV or KSTU to another station group in order to comply with FCC ownership rules and alleviate potential antitrust issues preceding approval of the acquisition; however, a sale of either duopoly to an independent buyer was dependent on later decisions by the FCC regarding local ownership of broadcast television stations and future acts by Congress.\n\nOn July 18, 2018, the FCC voted to have the Sinclair–Tribune acquisition reviewed by an administrative law judge amid \"serious concerns\" about Sinclair's forthrightness in its applications to sell certain conflict properties. Three weeks later on August 9, Tribune announced it would terminate the Sinclair deal, intending to seek other M&A opportunities. Tribune also filed a breach of contract lawsuit in the Delaware Chancery Court, alleging that Sinclair engaged in protracted negotiations with the FCC and the U.S. Department of Justice's Antitrust Division over regulatory issues, refused to sell stations in markets where it already had properties, and proposed divestitures to parties with ties to Sinclair executive chair David D. Smith that were rejected or highly subject to rejection to maintain control over stations it was required to sell.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKJZZ-TV shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 14, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 46, using PSIP to display KJZZ-TV's virtual channel as 14 on digital television receivers.\n\nOn August 8, 2016, KJZZ-TV switched from 720p to 1080i, as KUTV and KMYU also broadcast in that same format.\n\nOn February 16, 2017, KJZZ-TV added Comet on digital subchannel 14.2, TBD on digital subchannel 14.3, and Charge! on digital subchannel 14.4.\n\nEffective September 17, 2018, the station moved its digital signal from channel 46 to channel 19, as part of the repacking of the broadcast spectrum.\n\nOn October 29, 2019, KJZZ-TV added Dabl on digital subchannel 14.5.\n\nSyndicated programming seen on KJZZ-TV includes \"Judge Mathis\", \"The People's Court\", \"Wheel of Fortune\", \"Jeopardy!\", \"Divorce Court\", \"Access Daily\", \"Family Guy\", \"American Dad!\" and \"The Cleveland Show\".\n\nFrom 1993 to 2009, KJZZ was the over-the-air broadcaster of Utah Jazz regular season NBA games. The Utah Jazz signed a new exclusive 12-year agreement with regional sports network FSN Utah (now AT&T SportsNet Utah) on October 20, 2009, ending the team's broadcasts on KJZZ-TV, and making the team's telecasts cable-exclusive.\n\nKJZZ-TV began a partnership with the Utah Utes athletic department in 1995, broadcasting Utes men's and women's basketball games, as well as football games and gymnastics.\n\nFor the 2011 season, KJZZ aired select Utah Utes football games not televised by ESPN, Versus (now known as the NBC Sports Network), or Fox Sports; this ended upon Utah's acceptance into the Pac-12 Conference and all sports rights outside of those picked up by ESPN and Fox Sports being a part of the Pac-12 Network.\n\nKJZZ aired a tribute to Larry H. Miller on February 21, 2009. This tribute won an Emmy in the Rocky Mountain Southwest Chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.\n\nThe first local newscasts on channel 14 were produced under agreement with KSL-TV, in the form of a local 9 p.m. newscast that aired from October 21, 1991, to September 18, 1992. This was Salt Lake's first newscast in the timeslot, beating KSTU's news to air by more than two months, and the first news share of its kind in the Mountain Time Zone; it was canceled due to low ratings.\n\nIn September 2005, KUTV began producing weekday morning 9 a.m. and nightly 9 p.m. newscasts for KJZZ-TV. The newscasts were canceled after nearly five years on May 31, 2010. No official explanation was given for the discontinuance, although it is likely that it was due to the end of the LMA between KUTV and KJZZ.\n\nOn January 9, 2017, KUTV launched the 8 a.m. hour of its morning newscast for KJZZ. The latter also added a simulcast of KMYU's 7 p.m. newscast and a revival of the 9 p.m. newscast, marking the return of the partnership between KUTV and KJZZ for the first time in nearly 7 years when the LMA broke off in 2010.\n\nKJZZ-TV extends its coverage throughout the entire state of Utah, plus parts of Arizona, Idaho, Nevada and Wyoming, using a network of more than 80 community-owned translator television stations listed below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109002", "title": "Limoux", "text": "Limoux\n\nLimoux (; ) is a commune and subprefecture in the Aude department, a part of the ancient Languedoc province and the present-day Occitanie region in southern France. It lies on the river Aude about due south of Carcassonne. Its vineyards are famous for being first to produce sparkling wine known as Blanquette de Limoux.\n\nBlanquette de Limoux is produced around the city of Limoux. The main grape of the wine is Mauzac, followed by Chardonnay and Chenin blanc. Wine historians believe that the world's first sparkling wine was produced in this region in 1531, by the monks at the abbey in Saint-Hilaire, Aude.\n\nThe town is perhaps best known for its Winter festival called \"Fecos\" , often referred to (inaccurately) as a Carnival or \"Fête\". It is generally referred to as \"Carnival de Limoux\" in French language. It is known for its British expatriate population.\n\nThe heart of the town is the \"place de la République\", a wide square with some fine stone arcading and a number of timber framed houses. Limoux straddles the River Aude and the banks are lined with grand houses, especially on the eastern side, the so-called \"Petite Ville\" (lit. \"Small City\").\n\nWhile worth visiting in itself, the town is also a good base for discovering the history of the region and is ideally placed for exploring the coast, the mountains and some good walking country.\n\n\n\nLimoux was the birthplace of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109009", "title": "Neil Simon Theatre", "text": "Neil Simon Theatre\n\nThe Neil Simon Theatre, formerly the Alvin Theatre, is a Broadway theatre built in 1927 and located at 250 West 52nd Street in the Theater District of Midtown Manhattan in New York City.\n\nAs of 2011, the record for its longest running show is held by the musical \"Hairspray\", which opened August 15, 2002, and ran for 2,642 performances before closing on January 4, 2009.\n\nThe building was designed by architect Herbert J. Krapp. The developer, real estate mogul Alexander Pincus, originally named it the \"Alvin Theatre\" as an amalgam of the names of producers ALex Aarons and Vinton Freedley. It opened on November 22, 1927, with George and Ira Gershwin's \"Funny Face\" starring Fred and Adele Astaire. In 1930, Ethel Merman made her Broadway debut in \"Girl Crazy\"; in 1934, she appeared again in Cole Porter's \"Anything Goes\" and again in 1936 in Porter's \"Red, Hot and Blue\". In 1935, the Gershwins' American folk opera \"Porgy and Bess\" had its world premiere at the venue. Due to the Great Depression, Aarons and Freedley lost control of the venue in 1932. For a period, CBS used it as a radio studio. In 1960, Lucille Ball appeared in her only Broadway show, the musical \"Wildcat\". In 1965, Liza Minnelli made her Broadway debut in \"Flora the Red Menace\". The original Broadway production of \"Annie\" opened in 1977 and ran for nearly six years, setting a record for the Alvin.\n\nIn 1977, the Nederlander Organization purchased the structure and renamed it in honor of American playwright Neil Simon on June 29, 1983, while his play \"Brighton Beach Memoirs\" was playing. In 1985, its sequel \"Biloxi Blues\" also played at the theatre.\n\nThe New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission designated the building a New York City landmark in 1985. Historical records show that the original seating capacity was 1,362; in 2002, it expanded from 1,328 to a potential 1,467 after the May 27, 2002, closing of \"Elaine Stritch at Liberty\". (To use the orchestra pit, 26 seats must be removed.) Robin Williams was to perform five shows of his comedy tour, \"Weapons Of Self-Destruction\" at this theatre in early April 2009, but he was forced to cancel the engagement due to his health. In lieu of Williams, the revival of \"Ragtime\", opened November 15, 2009, after a successful run at the Kennedy Center in Washington, D.C. It closed January 10, 2010, due to low ticket sales after only 28 previews and 57 regular performances.\n\nThe new musical \"Catch Me if You Can\" began previews on March 11, 2011, and opened on April 10, 2011. On September 4, 2011, \"Catch Me If You Can\" closed after 32 previews and 170 regular performances.\n\nA revival of \"Jesus Christ Superstar\" opened on March 22, 2012, at the theater and ran through July 1, 2012.\n\nIn July 2015, the Nederlander Organization sold the structure's air rights to a consortium planning a highrise tower on Seventh Avenue between 41st and 42nd Streets. The sale will have no impact on the facility.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109014", "title": "Geraldine McNulty", "text": "Geraldine McNulty\n\nGeraldine McNulty is an English stage and television actress.\n\nShe has played the character of Mrs Raven in \"My Hero\", and had guest appearances in \"Neverwhere\", \"Gimme Gimme Gimme\", \"The Vicar of Dibley\", \"The Smoking Room\" and \"The Catherine Tate Show\". Radio work includes guesting on \"Parsons and Naylor's Pull-Out Sections\" and \"The Party Line\".\n\nShe also appeared in French & Saunders' \"Titanic\" in 1998 as an extra. She also appeared in \"Summerhill\" as Zoe Redhead.\n\nOn stage she has starred in the musical \"Betty\", in London's West End.\n\nA Guardian article (by Simon Fanshawe, 13 February 2003) once featured the comment, “Dawn French is off to deliver a birthday present to her best friend, the actress Geraldine McNulty”. The photographs in French's book \"Dear Fatty\" are also of McNulty: \"BF\" in that book would appear to refer to her.\n"}
{"id": "2109020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109020", "title": "Brothers of the Spear", "text": "Brothers of the Spear\n\n\"Brothers of the Spear\" was a long-running backup feature in the \"Tarzan\" comic-book series created by American company Western Publishing and published first through Dell Comics and then through Gold Key Comics. Though published as part of a licensed Edgar Rice Burroughs franchise, this original series was owned by Western.\n\nThe Brothers of the Spear were Dan-El and Natongo. Natongo was the son of a Zulu chieftain in the land that would become Botswana, and Dan-El was his adopted brother. They became sub-chiefs, swore brotherhood and had adventures together. They learned Dan-el was king by right, whose throne had been usurped. What was notable was that Dan-El was white, and his kingdom was that of a lost white tribe in Africa (Aba-Zulu), while Natongo was black (later ruling neighboring Tungelu). The first two years of the series dealt with them winning their thrones. By that time, they had individually gotten married. But even being kings and husbands, they continued to have adventures together, many times with their wives.\n\nThe feature was created by writer Gaylord Du Bois and artist Jesse Marsh in \"Tarzan\" #25 (1951), and ran continuously through #156 (1966). Artist Russ Manning did some of his earliest comics work on this series, beginning in \"Tarzan\" #39 (Dec. 1952). The ending of the series was due in part to Russ Manning moving to take over \"Tarzan\" from Marsh in #154. New stories would appear in #160-161 (by Manning), and later in #202-203 (by Mike Royer).\n\nAn additional story appeared in \"Dell Giant\" #51 (\"Tarzan, King of the Jungle\").\n\nWhile DC Comics licensed the rights to Tarzan in 1972, the Brothers of the Spear remained with Gold Key Comics, which published the 17-issue \"Brothers of the Spear\" series (June 1972 – Feb. 1976). Whitman Comics published issue #18 in May 1982, with reprinted material only. Du Bois wrote the series beginning with issue #2. Jesse Santos did the artwork for the first 12 issues, followed by Dan Spiegle.\n\nIn 2012, Dark Horse Comics started a hardcover archive series. The first volume reprinted strips from \"Tarzan\" #25–67. The second volume reprints strips from \"Tarzan\" #68–109. The third volume reprints strips from \"Tarzan\" #110-156, #160-161 and #202-203.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109021", "title": "MAS-38", "text": "MAS-38\n\nThe MAS-38 was a French submachine gun designed in the 1930s and used by French and German forces during the Second World War. It was derived from a small arms development program that took place between 1918 and 1922 under the control of the Service Technique de l'Armement. A submachine gun, a light machine gun and a semiautomatic rifle were developed to replace all the existing small arms. Budgetary constraints due to choices like building the Maginot Line led to the delay of adoption of these new arms except for the LMG 1924.\n\nThe \"Pistolet Mitrailleur MAS modèle 38\" (MAS Model 38 Submachine Gun) was developed from the experimental MAS-35, itself derived from the STA 1922 and the MAS 1924 both in 9 mm produced immediately after World War I. Prior to the development of this weapon France used a variety of German and Swiss submachine guns.\n\nMAS, the \"Manufacture d'Armes de Saint-Étienne\" (Weapons industry of Saint-Étienne), was a French supplier of arms that manufactured several firearms for the French military, including the MAS-36 rifle, the MAS-49 rifle, and the FAMAS. It is now part of Nexter. The French Ministry of War said it had no need for a submachine gun and mass-production did not begin until 1939.\n\nThe German army seized the MAS plant in 1940 just as the MAS-38 was entering large-scale production. The Germans accepted the gun as a substitute standard weapon, naming it the 7.65 mm MP722(f). They continued production of the gun for their own armed forces and supplied some to the Vichy French.\n\nOn April 28, 1945, one was used by Italian partisans to shoot the former Fascist dictator Benito Mussolini.\n\nProduction ended in 1949. By that time 1,958 were manufactured before German occupation, and further production is unknown. The French police continued to use the MAS-38 after World War II until it was replaced in the 1950s by the MAT-49 submachine gun.\n\nThe MAS-38 is 623mm (24.53 in) long with a 224 mm (8.82 in) barrel; it weighs 2.87 kg (6.33 lb) empty. It uses a 32-round box magazine. The muzzle velocity is 350 m/s (1,148 ft/s) and it has a rate of fire of 600 to 700 rounds per minute.\n\nThe MAS-38 was chambered for the 7.65mm Longue cartridge, which although similar to the .30 Pedersen cartridge is not an exact copy. The 7.65 French Longue cartridge is nearly identical to its predecessor used by the Pedersen device, but with slight differences in the groove of the shell. This was also the cartridge used for France's M1935 series of service pistols, allowing for limited standardization, but with the effect of preventing French soldiers from using captured enemy ammunition.\n\nThe MAS-38 is easily recognizable due to its unorthodox receiver layout. This is because the receiver and butt diverge in alignment from the axis of the barrel by several degrees, making the weapon compact as its bolt recoils inside a tube running through the buttstock, while also enabling a lighter bolt to be used by providing mechanical disadvantage to the pressure from the expanding propellant gases. To allow a natural aiming stance, the butt had to drop while the receiver had to remain in alignment. This required that the bolt approach the breech at an angle and the face of the bolt was cut obliquely to allow it to close evenly on the cartridge. The MAS-38 also features an unusual safety catch: the bolt was locked (in either the forward or rear position) by pushing the trigger forward. A valuable feature was that tools were not required for its disassembly.\n\nA very high quality weapon, the MAS-38 was machined from solid steel with only a few stamped parts. It was designed with a buffered sear assembly to prevent wear and increase the life of the internal parts. A dual range sight system was concealed within the receiver so as to be out of sight until it was flipped up for use.\n\nThe odd appearance of the MAS-38 did not detract from its accuracy, but its cartridge was underpowered compared to the German 9mm standard pistol ammunition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109025", "title": "Les Escoumins, Quebec", "text": "Les Escoumins, Quebec\n\nLes Escoumins is a municipality in La Haute-Côte-Nord Regional County Municipality in the Côte-Nord region of Quebec. It is located on the north shore of the Saint Lawrence River.\n\nIts economy is mostly based on the service sectors, especially education, health, and tourism. It is accessible via Route 138; a ferry service runs between Les Escoumins and Trois-Pistoles.\n\nIts name has traditionally been recognized to come from the Montagnais \"iskomin\", meaning \"where there are many seeds\" or \"there are fruits or seeds\", in turn from the roots \"isko\" or \"ishko\" (\"as far as this/that\") and \"min\" (red seeds, or wild berries in general). According to more recent theory, it could also be a variation of the Mi'kmaq term \"eskumunaak\", meaning \"lookout place\". In addition, other sources say that the place is named \"Essipit\" in Montagnais, meaning \"river of shells\".\n\nSeveral spellings have been used over the centuries such as \"Uscamin, Les Escoumains, Essuie-Mains, L'Esquemin, Lesquemin, Leschemin\" (Champlain, 1629), \"L'Esquemain\", and \"Lesquemain\" (1611 map of Champlain and other texts of 1626). The oldest reference to this name dates back to the map of Levasseur of 1601, that shows \"Escanimes\"; and to a contract of 1604 that included the rare spelling \"Esguenim\".\n\nThe area is considered the cradle of the Côte-Nord Amerindian, who have lived there for thousands of years. The Montagnais and Mi'kmaq frequented the place, particularly in the spring to gather berries that covered the rocks and adorned the mossy plains.\n\nThe first Europeans in the area were the Basques around the 1630s. In 1723, a cross was erected in honour of Our Dame of Bon-Désir, whereafter the place was also known as Bon-Desir. That same year the Mission of Saint-Marcellin was founded. But the first permanent European settler in Escoumins was Joseph Moreau, an employee of the Hudson's Bay Company, who arrived in 1825. It wasn't until 1845 that a real village began to form when many families from the South Shore, especially from Trois-Pistoles, Rivière-Ouelle, Rimouski, and a group of Charlevoix settled there.\n\nIn 1853, the local post office opened. The timber trade caused the village to grow rapidly when logs were floated down the Escoumins River from the cutting area to the Bay des Escoumins where they were loaded in barges. In 1863, the Municipality of Les Escoumains was formed. In the beginning of 1957, the spelling of the municipality's name was corrected to the current form.\n\nThe village is currently the largest of the so-called \"Secteur BEST\" (i.e. the municipalities of Bergeronnes, Escoumins, Sacre-Coeur, Tadoussac). It is home to a hospital (The Centre de santé de la Haute-Côte-Nord, previously known as Hôpital St-Alexandre), an Indian Reservation (Essipit, a montagnais community), the Poste de Pilotage des Laurentides (part of the St-Lawrence Seaway), and is an internationally known scuba diving site. An FM radio station, CHME, is located within Essipit.\n\nPopulation trend:\n\nPrivate dwellings occupied by usual residents: 848 (total dwellings: 918)\n\nMother tongue:\n\n\n<br>\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2109043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109043", "title": "Candi Kubeck", "text": "Candi Kubeck\n\nCandalyn \"Candi\" Kubeck (née Chamberlain, May 10, 1961 – May 11, 1996) was an American commercial airline pilot and the captain of ValuJet Flight 592. This flight crashed into the Everglades in 1996, after oxygen generators illegally placed in a cargo hold, which started and maintained a fire that disrupted aircraft functionality and flooded the entire cabin and cockpit with smoke. The crash made Kubeck the first female captain to die in a commercial airline crash.\n\nKubeck was born in Hollywood, Los Angeles, California, on May 10, 1961. She grew up in the San Diego area and often saw many military aircraft fly over her house. This inspired her to fly airplanes. Kubeck began flying lessons while in high school after which she attended Palomar College in San Marcos where she was a member of the flight team. Kubeck transferred to Metro State College in Denver, Colorado, where she earned her bachelor's degree in Aviation Studies in 1982. While at Metro she flew on the college flight team and was the Team Captain. She was awarded \"National Top Woman Pilot\" at the \"National Intercollegiate Flying Association\"'s National SAFECON meeting in 1981. The award has since been named after her. She also earned a Ninety-Nines Amelia Earhart Memorial Flight Scholarship in 1983 and was given the opportunity to meet Amelia's sister, Muriel.\n\nCandi Kubeck began as an instructor pilot at small airfields and working at various commuter and freight airlines based in California and Arizona . From there, she became an Air Traffic Controller at El Paso International Airport. But these were just the first steps to what she really wanted to be. She wanted to fly for commercial airlines. Kubeck applied for the major airlines, American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, and United Airlines, but as a low-time pilot (pilot experience is measured in logged flight hours) she was not accepted at the time. In 1989, she was hired by Eastern Airlines as a strikebreaker, crossing the picket line during a strike by the company's unionized pilots. It was a move that she believed was necessary to break in, but it also made her a target of harassment by strikers. The harassment was also directed at her family members and continued after her death. Upon completion of training, Kubeck was assigned as a first officer on Eastern's biggest plane, the Airbus A300, subsequently leaving Eastern after its abrupt shutdown in January 1991. When low-cost startup Valujet Airlines began operations in 1993 she was hired almost immediately. Kubeck became a captain for ValuJet and flew DC-9s.\n\nOn May 11, 1996, ValuJet Flight 592, a DC-9 she was piloting, crashed into the Florida Everglades just ten minutes after take-off. The disaster was caused when expired oxygen generators illegally stored in the cargo hold started a fire. The flight was scheduled to leave at 1:00 pm, but because of mechanical problems there was a delay. The DC-9 took off from Miami International Airport on runway 9L at 2:04 pm and began a normal climb.\n\nAt 2:10 pm, Captain Kubeck and First Officer Richard Hazen heard a loud bang on their headphones. Kubeck said, \"What was that?\", to which Hazen responded \"I don't know.\" Then the DC-9 began losing electrical power. Kubeck said, \"We need, we need to go back to Miami.\" Hazen asked Air Traffic Control for an immediate return to Miami. Air traffic controller Jesse Fisher asked, \"What kind of problem are you having?\" Kubeck can be heard on the cockpit voice recording shouting \"Fire!\". Hazen reported smoke in the cabin and cockpit to Fisher. As the plane was turning left to Miami, it banked sharply to the left, which caused it to lose lift and fall from the sky. Kubeck struggled with the aircraft, but failed; the fire had melted all of the wiring and hydraulic cables in the back of the plane, making it uncontrollable. The DC-9 plummeted nose first in the Everglades, shattering upon impact and killing everyone on board instantly. There was no chance of getting the plane on the ground safely. Kubeck's remains were never identified. Kubeck died one day after her 35th birthday.\n\nIn honor of Kubeck, the National Intercollegiate Flying Association Foundation (NIFA) in conjunction with the Chamberlain and Kubeck families created the \"Candi Chamberlain Kubeck Award\". The $1,000 Scholarship is given out at the Annual International Women in Aviation Conference (WAI) to the nationally ranked Top Female Collegiate Pilot.\n2013 Award Winner - Courtney Copping of Southern Illinois University\n2014 Award Winner - Blake N. Schuette of Auburn University\n\nKubeck married Roger Kubeck on the \"Queen Mary\" in Long Beach, California in September 1987.\n"}
{"id": "2109044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109044", "title": "Lists of endemic birds", "text": "Lists of endemic birds\n\nThis is a master list pertaining to lists of endemic birds. As applied to birds, the term \"endemic\" refers to any species found only within a defined geographical area. There is no upper limit for the area; it would not be incorrect to refer to all bird species as endemic to Earth. In practice, the largest areas for which the term is in common use are countries and geographical regions. An Endemic Bird Area (EBA), a term devised by BirdLife International, is a geographical (rather than political) region of the world that contains two or more restricted-range (of no more than 50,000 km) species, while a \"secondary area\" contains one restricted-range species.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109054", "title": "Walther Hesse", "text": "Walther Hesse\n\nWalther Hesse (27 December 1846 – 19 July 1911) is best known for his work in microbiology, specifically his work in developing agar as a medium for culturing microorganisms.\n\nHe was born in Bischofswerda, Lusatia, as one of 12 children in the family of a medical practitioner. Hesse attended the Kreuzschule in Dresden and studied medicine at the University of Leipzig with Ernst Leberecht Wagner from 1866 till 1870, when he received his doctorate in pathology. Afterwards he participated in the Franco-Prussian War, and therein in the Battle of Gravelotte.\n\nAs a ship's physician on the New York Line 1872/73 he examined seasickness – his works were classified by Prof. Gavingel of Le Havre as the first scientific study on this topic at all. In New York City, Hesse met his later wife Angelina Fanny Eilshemius. The Eilshemius family were immigrants of Dutch-German origin – Angelina's brother Louis Eilshemius is known as an important painter, Swiss painter Louis Léopold Robert was their common grandfather. Walther and Angelina married 1874 in Geneva, together with Angelina's sister and a nephew of Louis Agassiz.\n\nAfter some years as a medical practitioner in Pirna and Zittau, Hesse went to Schwarzenberg, Saxony in 1877. His investigations in \"Schneeberger Bergkrankheit\", responsible for the commonly early death of miners in the Ore Mountains, are credited as the first unveiling of working conditions as cause of an interior disease (lung cancer). Within his time in Schwarzenberg, he took a year with Max Joseph von Pettenkofer at Munich to deepen his knowledge in occupational hygiene.\nHesse joined Robert Koch's laboratory (effectively in a post-doctoral position) in 1881 to study air quality. He was convinced that microorganisms were present everywhere, even in water and in the air. He used a series of filters, made mainly from wadding, in attempts to capture and observe microorganisms. When culturing the organisms he trapped with his filter, he used a gelatin-containing medium capable of solidifying. Frustratingly, the medium had a tendency to melt during the summer months, thus ruining the experiments. Additionally, many of the organisms he cultured were capable of degrading the gelatin medium, also ruining his experiments.\n\nLegend has it that Hesse went on a picnic with his wife Angelina Fannie and noticed that the jellies and puddings that she had brought along did not melt in the hot summer weather. When asked why this was so, Lina (as she was called) replied that they contained agar, and that she had been shown the trick by a Dutch neighbor (recently emigrated from the island of Java, in the Dutch East Indies(Indonesia)) when she was growing up. Further development of agar showed that it would not easily melt (though would remain molten at lower temperatures once it did), was not easily degraded by microorganisms and was a flexible medium. Koch was soon using the new medium to grow tuberculosis bacteria.\n\nIn later years, Hesse was district physician in Dresden. He continued his scientific works, experimented with Petri dishes and investigated the microbiological foundations of typhus, cholera and diphtheria. He operated a laboratory at the Technical College Dresden together with Walther Hempel. Hesse introduced pasteurization of milk in Pfund's dairy. The family's tomb at the cemetery of Serkowitz was created by Arnold Kramer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109060", "title": "Fanjeaux", "text": "Fanjeaux\n\nFanjeaux () is a commune in the Aude department in southern France.\n\nFanjeaux is located west of Carcassonne. Between 1206 and 1215, Fanjeaux was the home of Saint Dominic, the founder of the Roman Catholic Church's Dominican Order, who preached to the Cathars in the area (see Catharism).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109062", "title": "Cycloheximide", "text": "Cycloheximide\n\nCycloheximide is a naturally occurring fungicide produced by the bacterium \"Streptomyces griseus\". Cycloheximide exerts its effects by interfering with the translocation step in protein synthesis (movement of two tRNA molecules and mRNA in relation to the ribosome), thus blocking eukaryotic translational elongation. Cycloheximide is widely used in biomedical research to inhibit protein synthesis in eukaryotic cells studied \"in vitro\" (\"i.e.\" outside of organisms). It is inexpensive and works rapidly. Its effects are rapidly reversed by simply removing it from the culture medium.\n\nDue to significant toxic side effects, including DNA damage, teratogenesis, and other reproductive effects (including birth defects and toxicity to sperm), cycloheximide is generally used only in \"in vitro\" research applications, and is not suitable for human use as a therapeutic compound. Although it has been used as a fungicide in agricultural applications, this application is now decreasing as the health risks have become better understood.\n\nBecause cycloheximide rapidly breaks down in a basic environment, decontamination of work surfaces and containers can be achieved by washing with a non-harmful alkali solution such as soapy water or aqueous sodium bicarbonate.\n\nIt is classified as an extremely hazardous substance in the United States as defined in Section 302 of the U.S. Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (42 U.S.C. 11002), and is subject to strict reporting requirements by facilities which produce, store, or use it in significant quantities.\n\nCycloheximide was reported in 1946 by Alma Joslyn Whiffen-Barksdale at the Upjohn Company.\n\nCycloheximide can be used as an experimental tool in molecular biology to determine the half-life of a protein. Treating cells with cycloheximide in a time-course experiment followed by western blotting of the cell lysates for the protein of interest can show differences in protein half-life. Cycloheximide treatment provides the ability to observe the half-life of a protein without confounding contributions from transcription or translation.\n\nIt is used as a plant growth regulator to stimulate ethylene production. It is used as a rodenticide and other animal pesticide. It is also used in media to detect unwanted bacteria in beer fermentation by suppressing yeasts and molds growth in test medium. \n\nThe translational elongation freezing properties of cycloheximide are also used for ribosome profiling / translational profiling. Translation is halted via the addition of cycloheximide, and the DNA/RNA in the cell is then nuclease treated. The ribosome-bound parts of RNA can then be sequenced.\n\nCycloheximide has also been used to make isolation of bacteria from environmental samples easier.\n\nCycloheximide has been used to isolate dermatophytes and inhibit the growth of fungi in brewing test media. The following represents susceptibility data for a few commonly targeted fungi:\n\n"}
{"id": "2109064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109064", "title": "Bezonvaux", "text": "Bezonvaux\n\nBezonvaux is a commune in the Meuse department in the Grand Est region in northeastern France.\n\nSince the end of the Battle of Verdun in 1916, it has been unoccupied (official population: 0) along with Beaumont-en-Verdunois, Haumont-près-Samogneux, Louvemont-Côte-du-Poivre, Cumières-le-Mort-Homme and Fleury-devant-Douaumont.\n\nDuring the war, the town was destroyed and the land was made uninhabitable to such an extent that a decision was made not to rebuild it. The site of the commune is maintained as a testimony to war and is officially designated as a \"village that died for France\". It is managed by a municipal council of three members appointed by the prefect of the Meuse department.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109065", "title": "Donell Jones", "text": "Donell Jones\n\nDonell Jones (born May 22, 1973) is an American singer, songwriter and record producer. He is most notable for the hits \"U Know What's Up,\" \"Where I Wanna Be,\" and his cover of Stevie Wonder's \"Knocks Me Off My Feet.\" Jones' first studio album \"My Heart\", was released in 1996, but he is best known for his late 1990s release of his second album \"Where I Wanna Be\".\n\nJones is a son of a gospel singer and was raised in Chicago, IL. He later met DJ Eddie F of Heavy D and The Boyz and signed with Untouchables/LaFace Records, writing hits for Usher and 702.\n\nIn June 1996, Jones released his debut album, \"My Heart\", on LaFace Records. While most of the album was produced by Jones himself, it also featured help from Eddie Ferrell's Untouchables Entertainment production team, involving Mookie, Marks Sparks, Kenny Tonge, and Darin Whittington. A moderate commercial success, it peaked at number 30 on \"Billboard\"s Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums, but failed to reach the upper half of the US \"Billboard\" 200. Its first two singles, \"In the Hood\" and a cover of Stevie Wonder's 1976 ballad \"Knocks Me Off My Feet,\" became top thirty hits on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs as well as the New Zealand Singles Chart.\n\nIn 1999, Jones enjoyed major success with the release of his second album, \"Where I Wanna Be\". Boosted by its hit single \"U Know What's Up,\" a number two hit on the UK Singles Chart and top ten entry on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100, it peaked at number six on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums in the United States. The album produced three further singles, including \"Shorty (Got Her Eyes On Me)\" and \"Where I Wanna Be,\" the latter of which reached number two on \"Billboard\"s Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart, and was eventually certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for sales in excess of 1.0 million copies. In 2000, Jones recorded the song \"I'll Go\" for the soundtrack of the romantic drama film \"Love and Basketball\", which earned him a Black Reel Award nomination for Best Original or Adapted Song. The same year, he was also awarded an American Music Award in the Favorite Soul/R&B New Artist category.\n\nJones reteamed with his regular team of contributors, including Eddie F., Sheldon Goode, Jamie Hawkins, G-Wise, Kyle West, and Darren Lighty, to work on his third album \"Life Goes On\". Released in June 2002, it debuted number 3 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and at number three on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart, becoming his highest-charting effort yet. A steady seller it earned gold status from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Its three singles were less successful however, though lead single \"You Know That I Love You\" became a top twenty hit on the R&B charts. Jones' fourth album, \"Journey of a Gemini\" was released in 2006 and marked his first album to include a diverse roster of collaborators including production credits from Tim & Bob, Sean Garrett, Ryan Leslie, Tank, Mike City, and The Underdogs. It became Jones' highest-charting album on the \"Billboard\" Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart where it topped at number one, while entering the top 20 on the \"Billboard\" 200.\n\nIn 2009, Jones released \"The Lost Files\", a collection of unreleased songs that were recorded between 1996 and 2004, through his own label Candyman Music Inc and TuneCore. Serving as prelude to his next studio album, \"The Lost Files\" failed to chart. \"Lyrics\", Jones' fifth regular album, was released in September 2010 via Candyman and eOne Music. Chiefly produced by Jones' himself, it debuted and peaked at number 28 on the US \"Billboard\" 200 and at number nine on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums, becoming his fourth entry on the latter chart. \"Lyrics\" produced two singles, including \"Love Like This\" which reached the top five of \"Billboard\"s Adult R&B Songs.\n\nJones' sixth album \"Forever\" was released in July 2013. Another project conceived under Candyman and eOne Music, it debuted and peaked at number 20 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and reached number eight on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums. The album spawned two singles. Its title track which peaked at number 14 on \"Billboard\"s Adult R&B Songs. In 2016, Jones premiered the single \"Never Let Her Go,\" a collaboration with rapper David Banner. In support of the single, he went on a promo tour during spring 2017. In 2018, Jones provided vocals, produced and co-wrote on \"23\" by Jacquees off the album \"4275\" (2018).\n\nIn 2019, Donell Jones collaborated with Jon B. on the duet \"Understand\". He also announced plans for an upcoming album to release in 2019 during an appearance on the SoulBack R&B Podcast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109086", "title": "Rob Evans (basketball)", "text": "Rob Evans (basketball)\n\nRobert Oran Evans (born September 7, 1946) is an American college basketball coach. He was most recently the associate head coach with the University of North Texas. Evans served as head men's basketball coach at the University of Mississippi (Ole Miss) from 1992 to 1998 and Arizona State University from 1998 to 2006.\n\nEvans was born in Hobbs, New Mexico, the son of Gladys (née Spirlin), a home cleaner, and Oscar, a preacher and janitor. Robert was the fourth of seven children, all of whom would go on to graduate college.\n\nEvans played high school basketball at Hobbs High School under legendary coach Ralph Tasker. His senior year he was named co-captain. That year the team made it to the 1964 championship game and Evans was invited to the state all-star game in Albuquerque.\n\nEvans played junior college basketball at what is now Lubbock Christian University where he was named the school's first All-American. Both seasons he played at Lubbock Christian Evans was voted the teams’ best defensive player. In his second year with the team Evans was named team captain. In 1966 Evans earned his associate degree in Arts and Sciences. At Lubbock Christian Evans was teammates with Gerald Turner who would later become Chancellor of the University of Mississippi. Turner was instrumental in Evans’ hiring as head basketball coach in 1992.\n\nEvans transferred to New Mexico State University for the 1966–67 season where he was coached by Lou Henson. He was named team captain and led the Aggies to a 15–11 record and a NCAA Tournament appearance. The next season Evans again captained the team to a 23–6 record and another NCAA Tournament appearance. In 1967 Evans was selected NMSU's most outstanding athlete. In May 1968 Evans earned his bachelor's degree in education.\n\nAfter his graduation, Evans was hired as an assistant at New Mexico State under Henson. When Henson left for Illinois in 1976, Evans moved to Texas Tech and served for 14 years as an assistant under Gerald Myers. After two years as an assistant at Oklahoma State under Eddie Sutton, Evans was hired at Ole Miss as its first black coach in a major sport.\n\nEvans inherited a program that had been one of the dregs of the Southeastern Conference for decades. The Rebels had not had a winning season in SEC play since 1982–83, and had only finished in the top half of the conference twice in 59 years of conference play. After four years rebuilding the program, the Rebels shocked the SEC by winning consecutive West Division titles in 1997 and 1998 and notching the first 20-win seasons in school history. Ole Miss had been one of the few longstanding members of a \"power conference\" to have never won 20 games in a season.\n\nIn 1998, Evans moved to Arizona State, which was reeling in the wake of a point-shaving scandal. His tenure at Arizona State was not nearly as successful as his tenure at Ole Miss, with only one NCAA appearance in eight seasons He was fired after the 2006 season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109092", "title": "Lelantine War", "text": "Lelantine War\n\nThe Lelantine War is the modern name for a military conflict between the two ancient Greek city states Chalcis and Eretria in Euboea which took place in the early Archaic period, between c. 710 and 650 BC. The reason for war was, according to tradition, the struggle for the fertile Lelantine Plain on the island of Euboea. Due to the economic importance of the two participating \"poleis\", the conflict spread considerably, with many further city states joining either side, resulting in much of Greece being at war. The historian Thucydides describes the Lelantine War as exceptional, the only war in Greece between the mythical Trojan War and the Persian Wars of the early 5th century BC in which allied cities rather than single ones were involved.\n\nAncient authors normally refer to the \"War between Chalcidians and Eretrians\" (ancient Greek: \" \").\n\nWe have no direct information in ancient sources to date this war. Indirect evidence in Thucydides points towards a date \"ca\" 705 BC, that situates it halfway between history and legend. At the very same time, the site of Lefkandi was being incrementally deserted, perhaps as a consequence of the turmoil. The foundation stories of the joint Euboean colony at Ischia suggest that at the mid-8th century Chalcis and Eretria were cooperating. Furthermore, Theognis can be read to imply there was a conflict between Eretria and Chalcis in the middle of the 6th century BC. While a few historians have suggested this as the date of the Lelantine War, it is more probable that Theognis refers to a second, smaller and even less known Lelantine War: \"we are certainly not dealing with a 'Hundred Years Lelantine War'\", remarks Robin Lane Fox.\n\nSince the conflict took place at a very early point in Greek history, before historiography had developed, there are no contemporaneous written sources on the events. The few later sources and the much more copious archaeological evidence allow for a sketchy picture of the Lelantine War. However, as a result of the ambiguity of the surviving written sources, date and extent of the war are disputed among Classical scholarship. Some authors have even suggested that the war may be entirely mythical or even fictional.\n\nNo detailed record of the Lelantine War was produced by a contemporary author (such as Thucydides for the Peloponnesian War), as Greek historiography only developed 200 years later, starting with the works of Herodotus. The Greek literary tradition as a whole started only in the late 8th century BC, with Homer. Therefore, the only contemporary sources about the Lelantine War are references in the early poets Hesiod and Archilochos. The first references in historical works are from the 5th century, two centuries after the events, and remain vague and brief.\n\nIn the introduction of his work on the Peloponnesian War, Thucydides (460 BC to early 4th century) gives a short summary of earlier Greek history, stating that there were no major collective military actions by Greeks between the Trojan War and the Persian Wars. As an exception, he mentions the War between Chalcidians and Eretrians, during which most of the rest of Hellas joined one of the warring parties:\n\nHerodotus (484 BC to 425 BC) mentions the same war as the reason why in 494 BC, after the Ionian Revolt, Eretria sent military support to Miletus, then under threat from the Persian empire, attributing the support to Miletus having supported Eretria in her war against Chalcis, while Samos had taken the opposite side:\n\nAn even later author, Plutarch (c. 45 to 125 AD) mentions traditions regarding the Lelantine War twice. In his \"Moralia\" he states that during the war, the Chalcidians felt on a par with the Eretrian foot soldiers, but not with their cavalry. Thus, he writes, they procured the aid of a Thessalian, Kleomachos (Cleomachus) of Pharsalos, who fought within sight of his \"eromenos\", and whose cavalry defeated the Eretrians in a battle. According to Plutarch, Kleomachos himself was killed during the battle and received an honourable burial as well as a commemorative column on the \"agora\" of Chalcis from her grateful citizens.\n\nElsewhere, Plutarch mentions the tradition of a poetic competition between Homer and Hesiod on the occasion of the funeral games of a Chalcidian nobleman called Amphidamas. Plutarch states that Amphidamas fell in the struggle for the Lelantine Plain, after performing several heroic deeds fighting the Eretrians.\n\nPlutarch's source was traditionally attributed to Hesiod himself. Hesiod does mention, in \"Works and Days\", a contest in honour of the late Amphidamas, but without mentioning Homer or linking Amphidamas to the Lelantine War.\n\nIn his Geographica, Strabo (c. 63 BC to 23 AD) reports that the two \"poleis\", Chalcis and Eretria had once been friendly. He states that their former friendship resulted in both parties to the conflict agreeing before battle on contractually determined conditions, especially on not using missiles.\n\nA similar agreement is indirectly referred to by Archilochos (7th century BC), the second contemporary author to refer to the Lelantine War. He tells how the \"warlike lords of Euboea\" will not use bow or sling, but only swords, in a coming battle.\nOn the basis of these literary sources, and assisted by a variety of archaeological finds, modern scholarship has reconstructed an outline of the Lelantine War.\n\nArchaeological study has shown that the first warrior burials in the area of the later \"heroon\" of Eretria took place around 710-705 BC. The last such burial dates to around 690 BC. The site of Chalcis, still occupied, has been subject to very little archaeological research, but similar burials of warriors are indicated by written sources, especially in reference to Amphidamas. Around 680 BC, a triangular building was erected atop the warrior graves at Eretria and used to dedicate offerings to the fallen heroes. This may be connected to a rekindling of the conflict after a lull or truce (see below), leading to the Eretrians seeking the aid of their dead heroes. The occupation of the Xeropolis settlement and use of the cemeteries at Lefkandi, situated between Chalcis and Eretria on the Lelantine plain, ceased at approximately the same time as the Lelantine war and the emergence of Eretria as a major archaeological site. The excavators have speculated that Lefkandi may have been the predecessor of Eretria and abandoned as the result of the victory of Chalcis in the war.\n\nChalcis and Eretria are ports on the west coast of Euboea. Both cities claimed the Lelantine Plain, perhaps originally made fertile by the river Lelas, which traverses the plain from north to south, as a natural border. Although, strictly speaking, Eretria is located outside the plain, it had a historical claim to it. The reason is that Eretria was probably initially the port for a mother town situated further west. That town was located at the mouth of the Lelas, near modern Lefkandi. Its ancient name is unknown, so it is generally called by that of the modern settlement. Lefkandi suffered heavy destructions in c. 825 BC,<ref name=\"Popham/Sackett\">M.R. Popham & L.H. Sackett: \"Lefkandi 1: The Iron Age\", London 1980.</ref> after which the majority of its population probably moved to Eretria.\n\nEretria and Chalcis originally had a political union with Athens as they were all of the Ionian tribe. Evidence of this is that the two Ionian seats in the Delphic Amphictyony were given to Athens and the Ionians of Euboea; Chalcis and Eretria. The two soon turned towards the nearby Cyclades islands and to locations further abroad for expansion and trade.\n\nIn the 8th century BC, Euboea was one of the economically strongest regions of Greece. The two leading powers of the island, Chalcis and Eretria were among the driving forces behind the \"apoikiai\" of the Mediterranean, acting for a long time not as competitors but as collaborators. Around the mid-8th century, they jointly founded Al Mina, a colony conceived to facilitate trade with the eastern Mediterranean. Roughly at the same time, they expanded westwards. Together with Kerkyra/Corfu, Eretria secured access to the western Mediterranean. Since the second quarter of the 8th century, Euboean traders were present on the island of Pithekoussai (Ischia) off the coast of Campania, to conduct trade with the Etruscans. A few decades later, Cumae, the first Greek colony on the Italian mainland was founded. Around 735 BC, Chalcis founded the first Greek colony in Sicily, a point which Thucydides saw as the true start of Greek colonisation. Shortly thereafter, Rhegion and Zankle were founded on either side of the strategically important Straits of Messina.\n\nAccording to tradition, the war was caused by a conflict about the Lelantine Plain. This very fertile area had for a long time been used for agriculture, including the cultivation of vines. In Greece, where fertile land is scarce, wars for agriculturally attractive terrain were not uncommon, especially in the Archaic period, e.g. between Megara and Athens. Nevertheless, it remains unclear why Chalcis and Eretria suddenly came to blows over the Lelantine Plain after apparently being in agreement on its use for a long time.\n\nThe origin of the conflict could be connected to a natural disaster. At the end of the 8th century BC, Attica, Euboea and other nearby islands suffered from a severe drought. It is likely that the Eretrian establishment on Andros was abandoned as a result. This drought and the attendant famine could have led to both Chalcis and Eretria laying claim on all of the Lelantine Plain.\n\nThe war between Chalcis and Eretria probably began around 710 BC. Although both cities must have possessed large fleets, it was waged on land. Since the war took place before the development or introduction of hoplite warfare, but under exclusion of bows and slings, most of the combatants were probably lightly armed swordsmen. According to another view, the war consisted mainly of cavalry engagements. The relevant lines by Archilochus indicate that the war was still ongoing through the poet's lifetime (he is usually thought to have died c. 645 BC). It is possible, and likely, that the conflict was subdivided in several phases of warfare and ceasefires, as were e.g. the Peloponnesian War and the Messenian Wars.\n\nEretria at its height (a period brought to an end by this war) could field 3,000 hoplites, 600 cavalry and 60 chariots. This implies that this conflict took place at the transitional time between the Homeric \"aristos\", entering the war on chariot and fighting his enemies like the heroes of the Iliad, and the classical hoplite. The size and numbers of Chalcis's forces are unknown. We only know that their infantry was superior and their cavalry inferior to that of Eretria.\n\nPrimarily, the war would have involved the two conflicting cities and their territories. At the time of the war, the state of Eretria included one quarter of the island of Euboea as well as the nearby Cyclades (Andros, Tenos, and Kea). The expansion of the conflict into other regions and the number of allies are disputed. There are direct references to three further participants apart from Chalcis and Eretria: Miletus on the side of Eretria and Samos as well as Thessaly on that of Chalcis. Beyond these, the enmities and alliances between Archaic Greek states known from other sources have led to further suggestions of parties involved, leading some scholars to propose up to 40 participants. Such numbers would, however, imply broad-ranging political alliance systems, which the majority of scholars do not consider likely for the 8th century BC. Even if many other cities were involved in warfare at the same time, it cannot, however, be argued that every conflict between Greek states of the time was part of this war. Thus, most scholars assume that, apart from the cities mentioned above, only Aegina, Corinth and Megara, and perhaps also Chios and Erythrai took part. However, there is speculation that the ongoing Messenian war between Sparta and the Messenian cities had also some connection with the Lelantine war, since there was a conflict between Sparta and Argos at the same time, with Argos perhaps joining with her neighbor Aegina on the side of Eretria and Sparta supporting Chalcis. Herodotus mentions a Samian expedition in aid of Sparta against the Messenians, and this would favor the hypothesis of Sparta siding with her and Chalcis in the Lelantine war. A war of Miletus against the island of Melos, which had affiliations with Sparta, gives additional evidence.\n\nThe island state of Aegina was mainly active in the trade with Egypt, where its major competitor was Samos. Samos was allied with Chalcis, which suggests that Aegina took the side of Eretria. Corinth and Megara were at war for practically all of the Archaic period, primarily because of the Corinthian conquest of the Perachora peninsula which had originally belonged to Megara. The actions of Chalcis and Corinth in the context of western colonisation suggest that the two cities were allied, or at least friendly; Chalcis had prevented Megarian settlers from establishing themselves at Leontinoi, while Corinth had driven Eretrian settlers from Kerkyra. In analogy, a friendship between Megara and Eretria is assumed. Herodotus reports that Chios supported Miletus in the Ionian Revolt, because Miletus had previously assisted the Chiotes against Erythrai. Thus, based on the allegiance of Miletus, an alliance between Chios and Eretria, as well as one between Erythrai and Chalcis can be suggested.\n\nMost current scholarship is of the opinion that such long-distance alliances cannot have existed in the 8th century BC. Instead, there may have been alliance-like based on personal relationships among the nobility, so that the struggle involved only Eretria, Chalcis and the Thessalian aristocrat Kleomachos of Pharsalos with his own troops. The German historian Detlev Fehling believes that the entire Lelantine War is an invention of later centuries, produced by a chain of \"Pseudo-Nachrichten\" (pseudo-reports). This opinion has been generally rejected.\n\nAround 700 BC, the Eretrian mother town at Lefkandi was finally destroyed, probably by Chalcis.\nThis cut Eretria's link with the Lelantine Plain. At about the same time Eretria's ally Miletus ravaged the southern Euboean town of Karystos. During this phase, Miletus rose to be the dominant power in the eastern Aegean. The war (perhaps interrupted by truces) lasted until the mid-7th century BC. It may have been concluded, in favour of Chalcis, by the intervention of a Thessalian cavalry army, led by Kleomachos of Pharsalos, although it is not entirely clear whether the event in question decided the war, or indeed whether Chalcis definitely won it.\n\nAfter the long war Euboea, once the leading region of Greece, had become a backwater. The defeated Eretria and the probable victor Chalcis had lost their former economic and political importance. On the Mediterranean markets, Corinthian vase painting had taken over the dominant role previously occupied by Euboean pottery (see Pottery of ancient Greece). The leading role in colonisation was taken over by the \"poleis\" of Asia Minor, such as Miletus (eastern colonisation) and Phokaia (western colonisation). Chalcis entered a long decline while the islands in the Cyclades that Eretria controlled earlier seem to have become independent. From Theognis, another conflict over the Lelantine field is implied in the 6th century, so it seems the two cities fought again. In any case, after the war both cities continued the colonisation of the Chalcidice peninsula in Northern Greece. Eretria felt compelled by the help Miletus had given her during the war to repay its debt by assisting Miletus during the Ionian Revolt. This led to Eretria's destruction prior to the battle of Marathon in 490 BC. Chalcis retained control of the Lelantine Plain until 506 BC, when Athens established a cleruchy in it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109098", "title": "Elizabeth Ray", "text": "Elizabeth Ray\n\nElizabeth Ray (born Betty Lou Ray on May 14, 1943, in Marshall, North Carolina ) was the central figure in a much-publicized sex scandal in 1976 that ended the career of U.S. Rep. Wayne Hays (D-Ohio).\n\nThe \"Washington Post\" reported that Ray had been on the payroll of a committee run by Hays for two years as a clerk-secretary. During that time, she admitted, her actual job duties were providing Congressman Hays sexual favors: \"I can't type, I can't file, I can't even answer the phone.\" Ray, who had won the title of Miss Virginia 1975 in a beauty contest, says she worked briefly as a stewardess, waitress and car rental clerk before beginning work on the Hill in the summer of 1972. Ray also admitted having sex with married Sen. Mike Gravel (D-Alaska) at his houseboat in August 1972. According to Ray, the meeting was arranged by her then-boss Rep. Kenneth J. Gray (D-Illinois) in exchange for Gravel's support of a bill Gray was pushing. Both Gravel and Gray denied the accusations and a federal investigation ended with no charges being filed. Decades later, Gravel admitted having sex with Ray, but continued to maintain that it was not in exchange for his vote.\n\nAfter the Hays scandal broke, a book appeared in her name, titled \"The Washington Fringe Benefit\". She later posed for \"Playboy\" several times and tried acting and stand-up comedy. However, these efforts did not develop into a career and she faded back into obscurity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109110", "title": "Cindy Hsu", "text": "Cindy Hsu\n\nCindy Hsu is a Chinese American television news reporter and anchor at WCBS-TV in New York City. She currently anchors the weekend morning newscasts with Andrea Grymes. At different times, she previously served as anchor for the morning, noon, and 5:00 p.m. newscasts. She previously anchored the weekend evening newscasts solo up until July 2016, when she was replaced by Jessica Moore.\n\nHsu was born in Honolulu, Hawaii on May 6, 1966. Having joined the station in 1993 as a reporter, Hsu was promoted to weekend co-anchor in May 1994. Hsu was promoted again to morning co-anchor in July 1996, then noon co-anchor in October of that same year.\n\nPrior to joining WCBS-TV, Hsu worked as a reporter and anchor at WFRV-TV in Green Bay, Wisconsin and for WTOV-TV in Steubenville, Ohio. She began her broadcasting career as an associate producer for WTVR-TV in Richmond, Virginia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109115", "title": "Samuel Kier", "text": "Samuel Kier\n\nSamuel Martin Kier (July 19, 1813 – October 6, 1874) was an American inventor and businessman who is credited with founding the American petroleum refining industry. He was the first person in the United States to refine crude oil into lamp oil. Kier has been dubbed the \"Grandfather of the American Oil Industry\" by historians.\n\nKier was born in Conemaugh Township, Indiana County, Pennsylvania near the town of Livermore. He was the son of Thomas Kier and Mary Martin Kier. The Kiers were Scots-Irish immigrants who owned several salt wells around Livermore and nearby Saltsburg.\n\nIn addition to the salt business, Samuel helped found Kier, Royer and Co., in 1838. The company was a canal boat operation that shipped coal between Pittsburgh and Philadelphia. Kier also owned interest in several coal mines, a brickyard, and a pottery factory.\n\nHe, along with several other investors including Benjamin F. Jones, founded several iron foundries in west central Pennsylvania. The iron business would be the forerunner of the Jones and Laughlin Steel Company, one of the largest steel producers in America.\n\nKier married Nancy Eicher of Greensburg, Pennsylvania in 1842.\n\nBy the 1840s, Kier's salt wells were becoming fouled with petroleum. At first, Kier simply dumped the useless oil into the nearby Pennsylvania Main Line Canal, but after an oil slick caught fire, he saw a way to profit from this otherwise worthless byproduct. With no formal training in science or chemistry, he began experimenting with several distillates of the crude oil along with a chemist from eastern Pennsylvania. He developed a substance he named \"Rock Oil\" and later \"Seneca Oil\". In 1848, he began packaging the substance as a patent medicine charging $0.50 per bottle. He also produced petroleum butter (petroleum jelly) and sold it as a topical ointment. Neither product proved to be a commercial success.\n\nAfter further experimenting, he discovered an economical way to produce kerosene. Kerosene had been known for some time but was not widely produced and was considered to have little economic value. But at the time whale oil, the principal fuel for lamps in America, was becoming increasingly scarce and expensive.\n\nKier began selling the kerosene, named \"Carbon Oil\", to local miners in 1851. He also invented a new lamp to burn his product. Kier never obtained a patent for his developments and many other inventors and businessmen would go on to improve upon his work yielding huge fortunes. Even so, Kier's income at the time exceeded US$40,000 per year, a huge sum for the time.\n\nKier established America's first oil refinery in Pittsburgh on Seventh avenue near Grant Street, in 1853. A marker identifying the site reads \"Kier Refinery – Using a five-barrel still, Samuel M. Kier erected on this site about 1854 the first commercial refinery to produce illuminating oil from petroleum. He used crude oil from salt wells at Tarentum.\" Kier consulted with Edwin Drake concerning Drake's experimental oil well and the first shipment of oil from Drake's well went to Kier's refinery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109119", "title": "Richard Hubbard", "text": "Richard Hubbard\n\nRichard Hubbard or Dick Hubbard may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2109122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109122", "title": "Port Madison Indian Reservation", "text": "Port Madison Indian Reservation\n\nThe Port Madison Native Reservation is an Indian reservation in the U.S. state of Washington belonging to the Suquamish Tribe, a federally recognized indigenous nation and signatory to the Treaty of Point Elliott of 1855.\n\nThe reservation is located in northern Kitsap County, Washington and consists of 7,657 acres, of which 1,475 acres are owned by the Suquamish Tribe, 2,601 acres are owned by individual citizens of the Suquamish Tribe, and 3,581 acres are owned by non-Indians.\n\nThe reservation is divided into two separate parcels by Miller Bay. The towns of Suquamish and Indianola both lie within the bounds of the reservation. A resident population of 6,536 persons was counted in the 2000 census.\n\nThe reservation was authorized by the Point Elliott Treaty of January 22, 1855, for the Suquamish people, and was established by an executive order issued October 21, 1864. Other Coast Salish peoples, including the Duwamish and Sammamish, also moved to the reservation. When the land was reserved by the Point Elliott Treaty, all land was held by Tribal members and designated for their sole use. However, a series of procedures designed to accommodate non-Indian land acquisition created a situation where the reservation is widely interspersed with non-Tribal ownership.\n\nSuccessful economic development since the early 1990s has given the Suquamish Tribe government the ability to reacquire land lost during the allotment era, and \"the Tribe and Tribal members now own more than half of the land on the reservation for the first time in recent history,\" Suquamish Tribe communications director April Leigh said in a story in the North Kitsap Herald. Recent major acquisitions include White Horse Golf Club in 2010, placed into trust in March 2014; and 200 acres known as the Place of the Bear, in the Cowling Creek watershed, in November 2014.\n\nCompletion of the Suquamish Museum in 2012 helped solidify Suquamish Village as a walkable cultural district which includes the grave of Chief Si'ahl, or Seattle, at the Suquamish Cemetery; Old Man House Park, the former site of Old Man House, the largest winter longhouse in the Salish Sea; the Suquamish Veterans Memorial, with honor poles depicting Chief Kitsap and Chief Seattle; and the House of Awakened Culture, overlooking Port Madison.\n\nOn Suquamish Way and Highway 305, near the Agate Pass Bridge, is the Suquamish Clearwater Casino Resort, an events and entertainment destination, with 15,000 square feet of meeting space, a hotel with 183 rooms overlooking Agate Pass, and a showcase of Coast Salish art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109126", "title": "Pat Murphy (baseball coach)", "text": "Pat Murphy (baseball coach)\n\nPatrick T. Murphy (born November 28, 1958) is an American baseball coach and manager. He is currently the bench coach for the Milwaukee Brewers of Major League Baseball. He previously served as the interim manager of the San Diego Padres and as the head coach for the college baseball teams representing Arizona State University and the University of Notre Dame.\n\nMurphy played baseball at Florida Atlantic University where he played catcher and infield and pitched. He was honored on FAU's 20th Anniversary Team as a pitcher and utility player and in 2008 was inducted into the school's Baseball Hall of Fame.\n\nMurphy signed a professional baseball contract with the San Francisco Giants in 1982 and played a total of four years in the minor leagues for the Giants, the San Diego Padres and two independent clubs before beginning his coaching career.\n\nMaryville College (1983) \n\nMurphy served as the head baseball coach and assistant football coach for the Maryville College Fighting Scots. \nMurphy was hired by the University of Notre Dame as the head coach of the Notre Dame Fighting Irish baseball team on July 11, 1987.\n\nMurphy guided the Fighting Irish to a 318–116–1 (.732) record in South Bend, including consecutive trips to NCAA regional finals in 1992, 1993 and 1994.\n\nMurphy was hired by Arizona State University as the head coach of the Arizona State Sun Devils baseball team in 1995. The Sun Devils won the Pac-10 Conference championship in 2000 and consecutive Pac-10 championships in 2007, 2008 and 2009. Twice in that same decade, Murphy had teams finish in the Top 3 in the country; a feat matched by only ten other schools. Murphy's ASU teams were consistently present in the national Top 25, including a streak of 100 consecutive weeks in the polls that lasted from 2000 until the middle of 2005. Murphy led the Sun Devils to the postseason for nine straight seasons and 11 of 12. His teams set an NCAA record of not being shut out in 506 consecutive games between 1995 and 2004, shattering the previous streak of 349.\n\nMurphy is the youngest collegiate coach to reach 500 career victories.\n\nIn 1998, he won \"Baseball America\"s Coach of the Year award and was Pac-10 Coach of the Year four times (2000, 2007, 2008 and 2009). He led ASU to the College World Series four times (1998, 2005, 2007, 2009).\n\nOn November 20, 2009; Murphy resigned while the Arizona State baseball program was under investigation. It was initially reported that the resignation was his own decision. However, in December 2009, \"The Arizona Republic\" reported that on the day of his resignation, Murphy had been given an ultimatum—resign or be fired. The NCAA's investigation found Murphy innocent of violations regarding student-athlete employment and recruiting, reprimanding him solely for treating investigators with a \"cavalier attitude\". The Arizona State Athletics Department was faulted for Lack of Institutional Control, however, subsequently resulting in the baseball program being sanctioned and banned from postseason play in the 2012 season, as the ASU Athletic Department was a repeat offender.\n\nMurphy's career record at ASU was 629–284–1.\n\nIn February 2010, Murphy was hired by the San Diego Padres as Special Assistant to Baseball Operations.\nMurphy skippered the Padres' Northwest League affiliate, the Eugene Emeralds, as their manager for the 2011 and 2012 seasons, as the Emeralds had consecutive league-best overall season records. While in Eugene, Coach Murphy compiled a 93–47 record (.664 pct).\n\nMurphy managed the Tucson Padres of the Class AAA Pacific Coast League (PCL) in 2013 and the El Paso Chihuahuas of the PCL in 2014 and 2015. In 2015, the Milwaukee Brewers wanted to hire Murphy as a major league coach on Craig Counsell's coaching staff; Murphy coached Counsell at Notre Dame. The Padres refused to allow him to join the Brewers, even though it would constitute a promotion.\n\nOn June 16, 2015, Murphy was appointed the interim manager of the San Diego Padres after then-manager Bud Black was fired. Immediately after the 2015 season, the Padres announced that Murphy would not return as manager.\n\nIn late October 2015, Murphy was hired as bench coach for the Milwaukee Brewers as part of manager Craig Counsell's makeover of the team's coaching staff; Murphy was Counsell's coach during his playing days at Notre Dame.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109127", "title": "Alphonse Atoll", "text": "Alphonse Atoll\n\nAlphonse Atoll is one of two atolls of the Alphonse Group, the other being St. François Atoll — both in the Outer Islands (Coralline Seychelles) coral archipelago of the Seychelles.\n\nAlphonse Atoll lies south of the main Amirantes bank, from which it is separated by deep water. It has a distance of south of Victoria, Seychelles. Alphonse lies just north of St. François Atoll, separated from it by a deep channel. The atoll has just one island, Alphonse Island, with a population of 108 people who work in the Alphonse hotel or maintain the runway and island for the IDC.\n\nThe area of the island is . The total area of the atoll, with in diameter, is , including reef flat and lagoon.\n\nIn 1562 the whole of the Alphonse Group (Alphonse, St. François and Bijoutier) are collectively named on Portuguese charts as San Francisco. Chevalier Alphonse de Pontevez commanding the French frigate \"Le Lys\" visited on 27 June 1730 and gave the islands his own name. The following day he visited and named the neighboring island of St. François possibly following the former Portuguese name for the group. A small resort hotel was built on Alphonse Island in 1999, the island was a private plantation, only opened in 1999 to the public.\nin 2007 it was bought 50% by LUX hotels branch of Desroches and then sold to Great Plains Group due to financial difficulties. After a failed attempt to build an extreme luxury villa development it was sold in 2013 to the Collins family.\n\nIn 2007, Island Conservation Society established a conservation center on Alphonse to manage conservation on the island and on neighboring St. François.\n\nWedge-tailed shearwaters breed despite the presence of rats and cats. The common waxbill (probably introduced) breeds and is found nowhere else in Seychelles other than Mahe and La Digue. The introduced house sparrow also breeds. The isolation of Alphonse acts as a magnet to migratory birds and Seychelles Bird Records Committee has recorded more bird species here than anywhere south of the granitics apart from Aldabra, including the only record of sociable lapwing for the entire southern hemisphere and the first country records of red knot, tufted duck and common chiffchaff. Recently Alphonse island Hotel, The Island Development Company and The Island Conservation Society set up an Alphonse Foundation to fund the conservation efforts on Alphonse Island, Bijoutier and St Francois.\n\nThe island is bisected by a Alphonse Airport (ICAO code:FSAL) that crosses the island diagonally. The airfield was renovated in 2000, and is now serviced between two and five times a week with an IDC operated flights.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109131", "title": "Pierre Dupasquier", "text": "Pierre Dupasquier\n\nPierre Dupasquier is the former head of Michelin's Competition Department.\n\nBorn in France, he spent his early life as a pilot with the French Air Force, but was hired by Michelin's research division in 1962. Five years later, he switched to a representative role in selling Michelin tires to road car companies, and moved to the Competitions Department in 1973.\n\nDupasquier led Michelin's two periods of competition in Formula One, from 1977–1984 and from 2001 and until his retirement in 2005. He was awarded the French Légion d'honneur in December 2006 for his services to French motorsport.\n"}
{"id": "2109150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109150", "title": "Kyle Moore-Brown", "text": "Kyle Moore-Brown\n\nKyle Moore-Brown (born February 26, 1971) is a former Arena Football League offensive lineman/defensive lineman for the Albany/Indiana Firebirds and the Colorado Crush. He is currently the associate head coach and offensive line coach for the Nebraska Danger of the Indoor Football League (IFL). He was the head coach of the Cedar Rapids Titans of the Indoor Football League.\n\nWhile attending Central High School in Newark, New Jersey, Moore-Brown was a standout in football and track. In football, he played fullback, was an All-State pick, an All-City pick, and as a senior, he rushed for 1,300 yards, and 17 touchdowns. Moore-Brown graduated from Central High School in 1989.\n\nMoore-Brown played college football for the University of Kansas Jayhawks.\n\nKyle Moore-Brown played for 2 teams in the Arena Football League: the Albany Firebirds (1995–2003), and the Colorado Crush (2004–2008).\n\nAfter the original Arena Football League suspended operations following the 2008 season, Moore-Brown became the assistant head coach of the La Crosse Spartans, an Indoor Football League team that began play in 2010. In 2011, he became the head coach of the La Crosse Spartans when his brother Gilbert Brown stepped away from the team for personal reasons. Moore-Brown returned to the AFL in 2013 when he was named the offensive and defensive line coach for the Iowa Barnstormers. In 2014, Moore-Brown accepted the offensive line coach position with the Pittsburgh Power.\n"}
{"id": "2109154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109154", "title": "Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences", "text": "Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences\n\nThe Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES) is a research institute that is sponsored jointly by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) and the University of Colorado Boulder (CU). CIRES scientists study the Earth system, including the atmosphere, hydrosphere, cryosphere, biosphere, and geosphere, and communicate these findings to decision makers, the scientific community, and the public.\n\nIt is one of 16 NOAA Cooperative Institutes (CIs).\n\nCIRES was established in 1967 and is the oldest and largest of NOAA's cooperative institutes nationwide. CIRES facilitates interdisciplinary collaboration between researchers at the University of Colorado and NOAA's Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR), National Environmental Satellite, Data and Information Service (NESDIS), and the National Weather Service (NWS).\n\nCIRES includes more than 800 scientists, staff, and students, and CIRES scientists publish more than 500 peer reviewed publications annually. Examples of research focused upon societal needs include monitoring changes in the atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gases, assessing the health of Earth's ozone layer, projecting the impacts of climate change on water supply and other critical resources, documenting the thinning of polar ice, monitoring the quality of the air and water, helping to respond to drought and wildfire, developing microbial agents for degrading environmental pollutants, improving earthquake predictions, and providing decision makers with information for more effective risk assessments.\n\nThe current director of CIRES is the former NASA Chief Scientist, Waleed Abdalati.\n\nCryospheric and Polar Processes Division (CPP)\nThe cryosphere comprises Arctic climate, ice sheets and glaciers, snow cover and snow hydrology, and permafrost. Cryospheric and Polar Processes Division research at CIRES combines data collection, modeling, and data analysis to understand how the cryosphere influences, and responds to, changes in the global climate.\n\nAnother major activity of this division is archiving and distributing satellite information about the cryosphere in the Snow and Ice Distributed Active Archive Center (DAAC) as a part of NASA's Earth Observing System (EOS) Data and Information Center. These data increase scientists’ understanding of how the cryosphere is changing and the global impacts of those changes.\n\nEcosystem Science Division (ES)\nThis division research focuses on water quality, land-atmosphere exchanges, and regional and global disturbances. Research focuses on topics such as bacteria that break down environmental toxins; land use changes; nutrient and pollutant studies in lakes and streams; biogenic emissions of important trace gases to the atmosphere; and protection of crops against frost.\n\nEnvironmental Chemistry Division (EC)\nResearch topics include measurements and analysis of pollutants and naturally occurring compounds, reaction kinetics, surface science, and analytical instrumentation development. Recent studies cover wide-ranging subjects including acid rain, air and water pollution like that occurring in the Denver brown cloud, and climate change resulting from emission of carbon dioxide and other pollutants. Other areas of research include stratospheric ozone depletion, tropospheric photochemical oxidant formation, and the increase of atmospheric greenhouse gases.\n\nEnvironmental Observations, Modeling and Forecasting Division (EOMF)\nThis division focuses on increasing understanding of interactive processes in the Earth's physical environment and developing a clearer picture of its sensitivities to natural and human-caused change. One chief area of study is the greenhouse effect and how to determine the onset of a theoretically predicted warming.\n\nSolid Earth Sciences Division (SES)\nActive research areas in geophysics include earthquake prediction; studies of the size, shape, and dynamic forces of Earth; isotope geochemistry; and the behavior of Earth's core and mantle. This research involves the use of seismography, analytical and numerical modeling efforts, and space geodetic techniques, such as laser ranging, artificial satellites, and interferometric observations of radio waves emanating from deep space.\n\nAn important component of CIRES research in geodesy/geodynamics is participation in the multi-university consortium developed to assemble, test, and administer the deployment of instrument packages that use radio signals from Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites to determine distances between points on Earth's surface. The scientific objective is to monitor crustal deformation in tectonically active areas.\n\nWeather and Climate Dynamics Division (WCD)\nThis division focuses on understanding how global processes are intertwined to create the weather and climate observed from the troposphere to the mesosphere. This includes observational and theoretical research on the interactive boundary layers; the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) and its effects on climate prediction; global waves and turbulence in the stratosphere; and fine-scale turbulence in the boundary layer.\n\nCIRES supports four centers that provide the functional link between NOAA and 11 departments at the University of Colorado Boulder. The centers include the: \n\nCIRES also has two interdisciplinary programs: Western Water Assessment (WWA) and Education and Outreach. WWA is one of 11 NOAA-funded Regional Integrated Sciences and Assessments (RISA) programs across the country. WWA researchers, specializing in climate, water, ecology, law, and the social sciences, work with decision makers across the West to produce useful, policy-relevant information about climate variability and change.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109157", "title": "The Gorilla (1939 film)", "text": "The Gorilla (1939 film)\n\nThe Gorilla is a 1939 American horror comedy film starring the Ritz Brothers, Anita Louise, Art Miles, Lionel Atwill, Bela Lugosi, and Patsy Kelly. It was based on a play of the same name by Ralph Spence.\n\nThe film is in the public domain.\n\nWhen a wealthy man (Lionel Atwill) is threatened by a killer known as The Gorilla, he hires the Ritz Brothers to investigate. A real escaped gorilla shows up at the mansion just as the investigators arrive. Patsy Kelly portrays a newly hired maid who wants to quit because the butler, played by Bela Lugosi, scares her.\n\nBy October 1938, 20th Century Fox bought the rights to Ralph Spence's play \"The Gorilla\". Fox wanted production on the film to start in January, which would be when The Ritz Brothers finished their tour. The studio wanted Kane Richmond to play a part in the film, but Richmond was replaced by Edward Norris after Richmond signed on for the film \"Charlie Chan in Reno\". Fox signed on Bela Lugosi for the film as the butler. This character was originally meant for Peter Lorre.\n\nThe death of the Ritz Brothers' father caused production of the film in January to be delayed. Fox placed a $150,000 suit against the Ritz brothers for a breach of contract as the film was stated to start production on January 30, but was halted when the Ritz Brothers did not show up. By March, the film began shooting again with the Ritz brothers returning to the film. \"The Gorilla\" became the last film made for Fox by the Ritz brothers.\n\n\"The Gorilla\" premiered on May 26, 1939. A negative review of the film was written in \"The New York Times\" stating, \"It's all supposed to be either really funny or shockingly thrilling, depending on how you look at it. We couldn't see it either way.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109158", "title": "Aldabra Group", "text": "Aldabra Group\n\nThe Aldabra Group are part of the Outer Islands of the Seychelles, lying in the southwest of the island nation, from the capital, Victoria, on Mahé Island.\n\nThe group has 3 inhabited islands and 1 uninhabited. The main settlement is on Assumption Island, where construction of a large military base is currently undergoing. \nAnother village is the Aldabra Research Station on Aldabra. The smallest village is on Astove, consisting of 2 people only. An abandoned village is located on Menai Island of Cosmoledo. The total land area of the Aldabra Group is 180.03 km².\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109167", "title": "Jennifer Rosales", "text": "Jennifer Rosales\n\nJennifer Rosales (born September 17, 1978) is a professional golfer from the Philippines, currently playing on the U.S.-based LPGA Tour.\n\nBorn in Manila, Rosales won the Philippine Ladies Amateur Golf Championship five times in a row from 1994 to 1998. She attended the University of Southern California in Los Angeles and won the 1998 NCAA Championship as a freshman in 1998. Rosales also won the Golf World/Palmetto Dunes Collegiate Invitational, and was named first team All-American for 1998-1999, her sophomore year with the Trojans.\n\nRosales gained exempt status for the LPGA Tour for the 2000 season by finishing tied for seventh at the LPGA Final Qualifying Tournament in October 1999. She became the first golfer from the Philippines to win on the LPGA Tour at the Chick-fil-A Charity Championship in 2004. Rosales gained her second win at the first official tournament of the 2005 season, the SBS Open at Turtle Bay in Hawaii.\n\nIn 2005, Rosales teamed with Dorothy Delasin to represent the Philippines in the inaugural Women's World Cup of Golf, where they finished second. She played with Ana Larraneta in the 2006 event, and was part of Team Asia at the Lexus Cup in 2005 and 2006.\nRosales and Delasin again represented the Philippines in 2008 at the World Cup, and won by two strokes over the team from Korea. The duo birdied the last four holes in the final round for 65 (–7) in the fourball (better ball) format, for a 54-hole total of 198 (–18).\n\nFor the 2014 season, Rosales earned full status on the LPGA Tour by finishing 68th on the 2013 money list.\n\nLPGA Tour playoff record (0–1)\n\nProfessional\n\n"}
{"id": "2109170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109170", "title": "Farquhar Group", "text": "Farquhar Group\n\nThe Farquhar Group belong to the Outer Islands of the Seychelles, lying in the southwest of the island nation, more than southwest of the capital, Victoria, on Mahé Island.\n\nThe total land area of all islands in the group is less than , but the total area of the atolls measures about .\n\nThe group consists of two atolls and one separate island. In addition, there are a couple of submerged reefs in the area:\n\nThere is one settlement, located on Île du Nord (North Island) of Farquhar Atoll. There is an abandoned village on Providence Island of Providence Atoll.\nThere are records of Maldivian mariner presence in the group from the 20th century, when a trading vessel from southern Maldives lost its course and reached Providence Atoll.\n\nThe oonopid monotypic spider species \"Farqua quadrimaculata\" is the only known spider that is endemic to the Farquhar Islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109172", "title": "Nancy Parsons", "text": "Nancy Parsons\n\nNancy Anne Parsons (January 17, 1942 – January 5, 2001) was an American actress. She was best known for her role as Beulah Balbricker in the 1982 cult film \"Porky's\" and its sequels, as well as Ida in \"Motel Hell\" (1980).\n\nParsons made guest appearances in several TV shows, including \"Remington Steele\", \"Baretta\", \"Charlie's Angels\", \"The Rockford Files\", \"Lou Grant\", \"Family Ties\", and \"\".\n\nParsons was born in Lake Minnetonka, Minnesota, to Mary and Charles Parsons. She had two sisters, Mary and Theresa. When she was seventeen, her father remarried, to Genevieve Stack, and relocated with his second wife and daughters to South Pasadena, California.\n\nNancy Parsons died January 5, 2001, in La Crosse, Wisconsin, aged 58, from diabetes and congestive heart failure. She was survived by her two daughters. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109173", "title": "Clive Brook", "text": "Clive Brook\n\nClifford Hardman \"Clive\" Brook (1 June 1887 – 17 November 1974) was an English film actor.\n\nAfter making his first screen appearance in 1920, Brook emerged as a leading British actor in the early 1920s. After moving to the United States in 1924, Brook became one of the major stars for Paramount Pictures in the late silent era. During 1928–29 he successfully made the transition to sound and continued to be featured in many of Hollywood's most prestigious films, including a number of literary adaptations. In the mid-1930s he returned to England, where he appeared regularly in leading film roles for a further decade.\n\nBrook was born in Islington, London, the son of George Alfred Brook and Charlotte Mary Brook. He attended Dulwich College because of his father's desire for him to be a lawyer, but family financial problems caused him to leave at age 15. He then studied elocution at a polytechnic.\n\nHe served in the Artists' Rifles in the First World War, rising to the rank of Major. Brook was tall and had brown hair with grey eyes.\n\nBefore Brook went into acting, he worked as a journalist and an insurance clerk. He first appeared on stage in 1918 and also in films from 1919. He worked first in British films then in Hollywood.\n\nBrook debuted on film in \"Trent's Last Case\" (1920). One of his best remembered appearances was playing opposite Marlene Dietrich in \"Shanghai Express\" (1932). He played Sherlock Holmes three times: \"The Return of Sherlock Holmes\" and \"Sherlock Holmes\" (in that order), and as part of an anthology film, \"Paramount on Parade\" (1930).\n\nIn 1934 he was voted one of the most popular stars at the British box office.\n\nBrook's final film was \"The List of Adrian Messenger\" (1963).\n\nBrook returned to England in 1935 because of kidnapping threats toward his children. In 1943, he adapted the comedy \"On Approval\" by Frederick Lonsdale and wrote, produced, directed and starred in the film with Beatrice Lillie, Googie Withers and Roland Culver. The costumes were by Cecil Beaton.\n\nIn 1949 he presented the radio series \"The Secrets of Scotland Yard\". In 1956 he appeared on stage in \"One Bright Day\" at the Apollo Theatre in London.\n\nBrook starred as Josiah Bolton in the comedy \"Second Threshold\" from 2 January 1951 until 21 April 1951.\n\nBrook died 17 November 1974 in Ealing, London.\n\nIn 1920, Brook married Charlotte Elisabeth Mildred Evelyn. Their children, Faith and Lyndon, were also actors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109176", "title": "Uzooma Okeke", "text": "Uzooma Okeke\n\nUzooma Okeke (born September 3, 1970) is a former Canadian Football League tackle for the Montreal Alouettes. He won a Grey Cup with Montreal in 2002. Okeke is currently the Football Operations Assistant/Scout for the Montreal Alouettes.\n\nUzooma Okeke was a two-year starter at offensive tackle at Southern Methodist University (SMU), playing both offense and defense. He was on the team that brought football back to SMU following their penalty. Under the tutelage of Forrest Gregg, he blossomed both on the football field and in persevering to obtain his college degree. He graduated from SMU with a degree in Public Relations.\n\nForrest Gregg recruited him to play for the Shreveport Pirates in 1994 and 1995, and that began his CFL career. He moved to the Ottawa Rough Riders in 1996, but in 1997 started his very successful (10 year) career with the Montreal Alouettes. He was a durable mainstay of their offensive line, being named an All-Star six times, and in 1998 won the Leo Dandurand Trophy as best lineman in the East, and in 1999 won the CFL's Most Outstanding Offensive Lineman Award. He retired as a player prior to the 2007 season and joined the Alouettes as a scout.\n\nHe was inducted into the Canadian Football Hall of Fame in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "2109189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109189", "title": "Kirari (singer)", "text": "Kirari (singer)\n\n"}
{"id": "2109192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109192", "title": "Joint Institute for Marine and Atmospheric Research", "text": "Joint Institute for Marine and Atmospheric Research\n\nThe Joint Institute for Marine and Atmospheric Research (JIMAR) is an oceanic, atmospheric, and geophysical research institute that is sponsored jointly by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) and the University of Hawaii (UH). It is one of 16 NOAA Cooperative Institutes (CIs).\n\nThe JIMAR research themes are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2109197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109197", "title": "Moderatus of Gades", "text": "Moderatus of Gades\n\nModeratus of Gades () was a Greek philosopher of the Neopythagorean school, who lived in the 1st century AD (contemporary with Apollonius of Tyana). He wrote a great work on the doctrines of the Pythagoreans, and tried to show that the successors of Pythagoras had made no additions to the views of their founder, but had merely borrowed and altered the phraseology. \n\nHe has been given an exaggerated importance by some commentators, who have regarded him as the forerunner of the Alexandrian School of philosophy. Zeller has shown that the authority on which this view is based is unsound. Moderatus is thus left as an unimportant though interesting representative of a type of thought which had almost disappeared since the 5th century BC.\n\nStobaeus, in his \"Eclogae\", preserves a fragment of his writings; further extracts survive in the form of quotations in Porphyry's \"Life of Pythagoras\" and Simplicius's commentary on Aristotle's Physics.\n"}
{"id": "2109198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109198", "title": "Beretta U22 Neos", "text": "Beretta U22 Neos\n\nThe Beretta U22 Neos is a .22 long rifle semi-automatic, single-action pistol using a slide blow-back system, that has been manufactured in the United States since 2002 by Beretta USA. The pistol will accept interchangeable 4.5″, 6″ or 7.5″ barrels in blued or stainless steel finishes. Each barrel incorporates a built-in Weaver-style rail to accommodate optics or accessories. Beretta markets the Neos as a modern, reasonably priced pistol suitable for a beginner, yet is customizable to suit the experienced marksman.\n\nIn addition to the United States and Canada, the U22 Neos is listed for sale by Beretta distributors in Australia, France and some other European countries.\n\nThe U22 Neos was launched in 2002 with a cover story in \"American Rifleman\" magazine. A deluxe model, the U22 Neos DLX with both cosmetic and performance improvements was added in 2003. Beretta released the U22 Neos Carbine Kit (to convert the pistol into a long gun) in 2004. The last year of production for the DLX model was 2007.\n\nIn September 2010 Beretta instituted a recall of some U22 Neos models because of the remote possibility that the pistol could fire with the safety on. California certification for sale for all Neos models expired in March, 2011, therefore gun dealers may no longer sell them in California. Beretta USA announced in July, 2014 that firearms production in Accokeek, Maryland (where the Neos is manufactured) would be moved to Gallatin, Tennessee.\n\nThe U22 Neos is a semi-automatic firearm using simple blowback operation. The pistol does not have a full-length slide (i.e., the barrel is uncovered) and it functions by cycling the rear portion of the action. The breech is held closed by a recoil spring. The breech does not lock upon closing, but is held closed by a recoil spring. When the last cartridge case is ejected the slide is held open by a slide stop. This configuration is similar to the Colt Woodsman and its successors.\n\nThe U22 Neos is designed for field stripping without tools into basic modules (barrel with sight rail, receiver, slide and firing pin) for cleaning. The Weaver-style rail incorporates a fully adjustable rear sight and a removable front sight. The grip and trigger guard assembly, made from fiberglass-reinforced \"technopolymer\", is attached to the receiver with a single bolt and can easily be removed and replaced with an accessory grip. Unusual for a pistol (but unremarkable in a rifle) the magazine release is above the trigger guard and is operated by a right-handed shooter's trigger finger. The magazine holds ten rounds, giving the Neos a total 10+1 capacity.\n\nThe origin of the pistol's sleek shape and ergonomics was a collaboration between Beretta engineers and Giugiaro Design stylists. Anticipated buyers for the U22 pistol were a new generation of Beretta enthusiasts, hence the moniker \"Neos\" (Greek for \"new\"). Blued steel models are sold with a barrel either 4.5 or 6 inches long; the Inox models differ only in that the barrel and slide are made from stainless steel.\n\nThe U22 Neos has an ambidextrous manual safety lever mounted on the frame. There is no discrete loaded chamber indicator, but the slide can be opened slightly to check if there is a round in the chamber. The end of the firing pin is clearly visible at the rear of the receiver when cocked, indicating that the pistol is ready to fire (if the manual safety is off). There is no magazine disconnect to prevent the pistol from firing if there is a round in the chamber when the magazine is removed, and for that reason the Neos accommodates single-shot operation with direct chamber loading.\n\nIn 2003 new features were added to the U22 Neos product line, in the form of DLX models which can be identified by a special \"U22 NEOS\" logo is engraved on the slide. As with the standard models, the U22 Neos DLX was made with blue or stainless steel finish. DLX barrel length was 6 inches or 7.5 inches (no 4.5 inch DLX model). DLX triggers are adjustable for pre- and overtravel. Front and rear sights have user-replaceable blades in different colors. DLX models have rubber inlays in the pistol grip; these inlays are textured to improve the shooter's grip and are colored for a distinctive appearance.\n\nFollowing the discontinuation of DLX models in 2007, Beretta has occasionally produced standard Neos pistols with colored grip inlays as dealer exclusive models.\n\nExpanding on the modularity of the U22 Neos pistol, in 2004 Beretta introduced a \"U22 Neos Carbine Kit\" that transforms the pistol into a light rifle. The kit includes a skeletonized butt stock that takes the place of the grip on the pistol and a separate fore-end assembly that replaces the pistol barrel. A fiber-optic front sight is mounted on the barrel and the integral Weaver-style rail includes an aperture rear sight. This Neos carbine configuration appears quite similar to the Buck Mark Sporter Rifle, but Browning Buck Mark pistols and rifles are purpose-built and major components cannot be interchanged.\n\nOn 15 September 2010, Beretta announced a recall of the U22 Neos because some pistols may fire even if the safety is on, or when the safety is moved to the on position. This recall only applies to some earlier Neos models, and Beretta has posted instructions on determining if a pistol needs service on their Neos support page. Beretta's Accokeek factory performs this service at no cost to the customer. The firing pin and other components are replaced and tested.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109199", "title": "Bermudian Premier Division", "text": "Bermudian Premier Division\n\nThe Bermudian Premier Division (officially the Digicel Premier Division for sponsorship reasons) is the highest level of professional football in Bermuda.\n\nTeams in this league (currently ten) compete for the national title and theoretically can claim a spot in the CONCACAF Caribbean Club Shield, although there has not yet been a Bermudian entry. The Bermudian clubs who participated in CONCACAF Champions' Cup (the predecessor to the CONCACAF Champions League), qualified in the North American zone (when zone qualifiers were used), last appearing in 1992.\n\nThe bottom two teams at the end of each season are relegated to the First Division.\n\n2019–20 Season\n\n\nSource:\n\nNotes<br>\n"}
{"id": "2109203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109203", "title": "Diyar Planitia", "text": "Diyar Planitia\n\nDiyar Planitia is a region of relatively un-cratered terrain on Saturn's moon Enceladus. It is located at 0.5° North Latitude, 239.7° West Longitude and is approximately 311 km across.\n\nImages from the \"Voyager\" probes could not resolve whether Diyar Planitia is part of the ridged plains unit of Enceladus (Kargel and Pozio 1996) or the smooth plains unit (Rothery 1999), which is thought to be the youngest terrain on the moon. The more recent (and higher resolution) \"Cassini\" images show that Diyar is a region of relatively low, north-south trending ridges, with several younger fractures cutting across the region along the same trend. Very few impact craters have been found in Diyar, demonstrating the youthful age of the region.\n\nDiyar Planitia is bounded on the north and east by a band of grooved terrain named Harran Sulci. Given the similarity in the spatial relationship between the Sarandib Planitia and Samarkand Sulci, it is likely that the formation of Diyar Planitia and Harran Sulci are related.\n\nDiyar Planitia is named after the country that Khudadad's father rules in \"Arabian Nights\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2109208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109208", "title": "Charles Dubin", "text": "Charles Dubin\n\nCharles Leonard Dubin, (April 4, 1921 – October 27, 2008) was a Canadian lawyer and former Chief Justice of Ontario. He is best known for leading the Dubin Inquiry into the use of steroids by athletes.\n\nBorn in Hamilton, Ontario, the son of Harry and Ethel Dubin, he received a B.A. from the University of Toronto in 1941 and an LL.B. from Osgoode Hall Law School in 1944. He was called to the Bar of Ontario in June 1944 and was created a King's Counsel in December 1950. In 1945, he married Anne Levine, who died in 2007. They had no children.\n\nHe practised law with the law firm Kimber, Dubin, Brunner & Armstrong which later merged to form Tory Tory DesLauriers & Binnington where he was a counsel and a senior partner. In 1973, he was appointed to the Court of Appeal for Ontario. In 1987, he was appointed Associate Chief Justice and Chief Justice in 1990. He served until 1996 when he rejoined Torys as a Counsel.\n\nHe served on two Royal Commissions: the Royal Commission to Inquire into the Use of Drugs and Banned Practices Intended to Increase Athletic Performance (1988), in which sprinter Ben Johnson admitted wrongdoing, and the Royal Commission to Inquire into Aviation Safety in Canada (1979).\n\nIn 1997, he was awarded the Order of Ontario and was made an Officer of the Order of Canada in recognition for having made \"a profound and lasting effect upon the Canadian judiciary\". He was awarded honorary degrees from the University of Toronto, Law Society of Upper Canada, and York University.\n\nDubin died on October 27, 2008 after being hospitalized for ten days due to bacterial pneumonia. He was buried at Holy Blossom Memorial Park in Toronto.\n"}
{"id": "2109217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109217", "title": "Canada's Young New Democrats", "text": "Canada's Young New Democrats\n\nCanada's Young New Democrats (), officially the New Democratic Youth of Canada, are the youth wing of the New Democratic Party of Canada. Any party member, aged 25 or under is automatically a member of the CYND and is eligible to attend and vote in the youth wing's convention.\n\nUnlike the youth wings of some other political parties, the CYND is autonomous of the main party. It sends its own delegates to the federal convention and council.\n\nTraditionally, members of the CYND have tended to be more ideologically driven than the rest of the party. Since Jack Layton took over the helm of the party in 2003, the youth base has grown and now incorporates a wider base of progressive youth.\n\nIt typically elects its executives for two year terms at its own convention, usually held the day before the NDP holds its conventions.\n\nThe 2018 Executive was elected at the 2018 Federal NDP Convention in Ottawa.\n\nThe 2016 Executive was elected at the 2016 Federal NDP Convention in Edmonton.\n\nThe 2013–2016 Executive was elected at the Montréal convention in 2013. Their term was longer than the typical two years as a result of the 2015 Canadian Federal Election. Due to the CYND rules governing country-wide representation, no more than three directors from one constituent province may be elected at any given time. The provinces that each executive represented are noted in brackets.\n\n\nIn the lead up to the 2015 election, the CYND had been openly critical of leader Thomas Mulcair when he broke with long standing NDP principles, in particular on matters of foreign policy. After the stunning 2015 election that saw Thomas Mulcair lose official opposition status, the party was heading into a leadership review at 2016 convention in Edmonton. \n\nOne month before the leadership review CYND members from two Montreal Universities published an open letter in Le Devoir calling on Thomas Mulcair to resign. \n\nPressure continued to mount on Mulcair when it was reported that NDP McGill had submitted a resolution to CYND convention that would urge all CYND member delegates to vote for a leadership race. \n\nOn the eve of the Edmonton convention, the CYND published an open letter urging members to vote for party renewal, becoming the first official section of the NDP to call for members to \"support a new direction, and a new style of leadership.\" Many members of the CYND spoke out about the need for party renewal throughout convention, organizing votes to trigger a leadership election.\n\nA few days later, the membership of the NDP followed the lead of the CYND with a majority of the delegates to the Edmonton Convention voting for a new leadership race. This was the first time in Canadian history that a leader of a political party had lost a leadership review.\n\nThe process started at the 2016 Edmonton Convention culminated for a new leadership in the election of Ontario NDP MPP Jagmeet Singh on October 1, 2017, after he won on first ballot with 53.8 per cent of the vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109223", "title": "Uncle Sam Cereal", "text": "Uncle Sam Cereal\n\nUncle Sam Cereal is a ready-to eat breakfast cereal, first introduced in 1908 by U.S. Mills of Omaha, Nebraska. The company relocated to Needham, Massachusetts sometime after the 1970s. Attune Foods of San Francisco acquired Uncle Sam Cereal in 2009. In 2013 Post Foods acquired Attune Foods. On the Post Foods consumer home page neither Uncle Sam or Attune brand are listed nor do searches return results.\n\nIn 1908, company founder Lafayette Coltrin of Omaha was instructed by his personal physician to add flaxseed to his diet. Coltrin enjoyed the taste of toasted flaxseed on whole wheat flakes that he ate during breakfast so much, he decided to market the combination. Given his resemblance to Uncle Sam, Coltrin named his new cereal after the mythical patriotic character. The top-hatted silhouette of \"Uncle Sam\" on the side of the box is actually Coltrin's, or so the story goes.\n\nUncle Sam Original cereal, since 1908 has consisted of toasted whole wheat berry kernels that are steamed, rolled and toasted into flakes. Whole flaxseed is then mixed with the flakes. This high-fiber, ready-to-eat cereal has a low glycemic index and has an exceptionally high amount of omega-3 per serving because of the flaxseed. It is marketed as a \"natural laxative\" because of the presence of flaxseed, though clinical support for this assertion is scant.\n\nBecause of its nutritional profile, Uncle Sam Cereal has been recommended by several well-known dietitians and nutritionists, as well as in top-selling diet books such as Rip Esselstyn's \"The Engine 2 Diet\", Belly Fat Cure, Sugar Busters and the South Beach Diet.\n\nOver the years, Uncle Sam has also featured instant oatmeal, and cereal bars that are no longer available. In 2010, Uncle Sam cereal introduced three new flavors: Strawberry, Honey Almond and Multi-Grain.\n\nA 3/4 cup (55 grams) serving contains: 190 calories, 40 from fat; total fat 5 g; trans fat 0 g; cholesterol 0 mg; sodium 135 mg; potassium 250 mg; total carbohydrates 38 g; dietary fiber 10 g; soluble fiber 2 g; insoluble fiber 8 g; sugars less than 1 g.\n\nIt contains the following daily values: vitamin C 2%; calcium 4%; iron 10%; thiamin 50%; riboflavin 50%; niacin 50%; phosphorus 20%; magnesium 25%.\n\nIngredients: whole wheat kernels, whole flaxseed, salt, barley malt, niacin, riboflavin (vitamin B), thiamin mononitrate (vitamin B).\n\n"}
{"id": "2109229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109229", "title": "Pasadena High School (California)", "text": "Pasadena High School (California)\n\nPasadena High School (PHS) is a public high school in Pasadena, California. It is one of four high schools in the Pasadena Unified School District.\n\nThe school was first established as a district school in 1884 and became Pasadena High School in 1891. In 1928, the school merged into Pasadena Junior College and operated as a four-year school, grades 11, 12, 13 and 14. Pasadena realigned its 6-4-4 school system in 1954 with Pasadena High School regaining its separate identity. PHS, however, shared the Pasadena City College Colorado Boulevard campus through the graduating class of 1960 when PHS moved to its present campus on Sierra Madre Boulevard at Washington Boulevard.\n\nThe Rose Parade, post parade takes place in front of the high school utilizing some of the school grounds and parking lots.\n\nPasadena High School's athletic field was renovated, adding light towers, a new track and replacing the grass field with artificial turf. It opened at the start of the 2009-10 school year. The school's junior varsity and varsity football teams as well as the boys' and girls' soccer teams play their home games. The school also is used for its track meets in the spring. \n\nOn January 8, 2019, Pasadena High School opened the renovated Tom Hamilton Gymnasium at the cost of $19 million dollars. It is used for boys and girls junior varsity and varsity basketball teams and the girls volleyball team for their home games. \n\nThe school's auditorium is named after Gladiss Edwards, who was the principal during the late 1950s and into the 1960s.\n\nIn the 2016-17 school year, Pasadena High School's student population consisted of 1,777 students, with 60.3% of students being Latino, 17% white, 11.8% African-American, and 5.8% Asian, 0.3% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, and 0.2% American Indian/Alaska Native.\n\nPasadena High School offers several special unique programs. The Graphic Communications Academy was established in partnership with the Printing Industry of Southern California and Pasadena City College. The Visual Arts and Design Academy is linked with the Art Center College of Design, Pasadena City College and the Pasadena Art Armory. The Center for Independent Study program is a remedial program to help students who are behind in credits. PHS also offers a career pathway called the App Academy, which helps students learn about web design.\n\nPasadena High School competes against John Muir High School at the Rose Bowl in a football game known as the Turkey Tussle. The tradition began in 1947, and Muir leads the series 42-18-2.\n\nPasadena High School also has a NNDCC unit, which is a non-funded version of the US Navy's NJROTC program. Pasadena High School has had a Reserves Officer's Training Corps since 1920 starting as Army but has also been Air Force and Marines as well in the past. They disbanded in 2017-2018 academic year.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109233", "title": "Meuse-Line", "text": "Meuse-Line\n\nThe Meuse-Line is the chain of French forts and other military installations closing the passages of the Meuse between Verdun and Toul. These lines formed part of the defensive scheme adopted by France in 1873–1875.\n\nThe total length of the line was 31 m, and the \"forts d'arrêt\" are disposed along the right bank. The forts are: between Verdun and Saint-Mihiel, Génicourt-sur-Meuse and Troyon; near Saint-Mihiel, Les Paroches (left bank) and Camp des Remains; and near Commercy, Liouville-Saint-Agnant, Gironville-sous-les-Côtes and Jouy-sous-les-Côtes.\n\nAbove the circle of the Toul defences there are barrier forts on the Upper Meuse at Pagny (la-Blanche-Cote) and near Neufchâteau; but these last are practically in second line, and between Toul and Épinal the frontier districts are designedly left open.\n\nAt Épinal the Moselle-Line begins.\n"}
{"id": "2109235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109235", "title": "Peleng", "text": "Peleng\n\nPeleng is an island off the east coast of Sulawesi, Indonesia and is the largest island of the Banggai Islands (\"Kepulauan Banggai\"). It is surrounded by the Banda Sea and Molucca Sea and has an area of 2,406 km².\n\nSome of the smaller islands surrounding Peleng of the Banggai Islands group are Banggai Island, Bowokan, Labobo, Kebongan, Kotudan, Tropettenando, Timpau, Salue Besar, Salue Kecil, Masepe, and Bangkulu.\n\nIn January 2020 a paper published in the journal Science documented the discovery of 10 new songbird species and subspecies, nine of them found in Peleng.\n\nThe majority of people on this Peleng Island make their living planting coconuts, sweet potatoes, or fishing.\n\nThere are five district capitals on the island being Bulagi, Tataba, Liang, Salakan and Sambiut. The island's largest towns are Basiano and Bonganang.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109238", "title": "Rima", "text": "Rima\n\nRima, also known as Rima the Jungle Girl, is the fictional heroine of W. H. Hudson's 1904 novel \"Green Mansions: A Romance of the Tropical Forest\". In it, Rima, a primitive girl of the shrinking rain forest of South America, meets Abel, a political fugitive. A movie of \"Green Mansions\" was made in 1959 starring Audrey Hepburn.\n\nIn 1974, the character was adapted into the comic book \"Rima the Jungle Girl\", published by DC Comics. Though \"Rima the Jungle Girl\" ceased publication in 1975, the comic book version of Rima appeared in several episodes of Hanna-Barbera's popular Saturday morning cartoon series, \"The All-New Super Friends Hour\", between 1977 and 1980.\nLike her literary cousins Tarzan and Mowgli, Rima sprang from an Edwardian adventure novel; in her case, \"Green Mansions: A Romance of the Tropical Forest\", by W. H. Hudson, published in 1904. Hudson was an Argentine-British naturalist who wrote many classic books about the ecology of South America. Hudson based Rima on a South American legend about a lost tribe of white people who lived in the mountains. The book has a religious tone and Rima's speech is poetic.\n\nIt is a romantic adventure set in the South American jungle in which a political fugitive named Abel meets Rima, a girl living in the forest. The girl speaks in a bird-like language. Its theme is the loss of wilderness and the return-to-nature dream, and how unpleasant it would be for a savage to meet modern man (the reverse case is not considered).\n\nActor and director Mel Ferrer adapted \"Green Mansions\" into a 1959 film for MGM Studios, with Audrey Hepburn as Rima. The adaptation deviated far from the novel.\n\nRima starred in a seven-issue comic book series, DC Comics' \"Rima the Jungle Girl\" (May 1974 – May 1975), adapted by DC writer-editor Robert Kanigher with artwork by penciler-inker Nestor Redondo and covers by Joe Kubert. A variation of the character debuted in a six-issue DC Comics limited series May 2010 to Mar 2011 \"First Wave\", written by Eisner Award–winning writer Brian Azzarello. Rima is here portrayed as a South American native with piercings and tattoos; she does not speak, but instead communicates in bird-like whistles.\nAlthough the DC character is a fully grown and powerful woman with ash blonde hair, the novel's Rima was 17, small (4′ 6″), demure, and dark-haired. Natives avoided her forest, calling her \"the Daughter of the Didi\" (an evil spirit). Rima's only defense was a reputation for magic earned through the display of strange talents such as talking to birds, befriending animals, and plucking poison darts from the air. Although in the original book Rima was burned alive by Indian savages, in the comics she escaped the fire to have further adventures.\n\nThese comic book titles feature the Rima character:\n\nClassics Illustrated published a short adaptation from the novel, with direct quotes. In this adaptation Rima is blond. (Copyright December 1951 Gilberton Company). Publication date December 1951. Adaptation by George Lipscomb. Cover and interior art by Alex Blum.\n\nFrom 1974-1975, Rima starred in a self-titled series which ran for seven issues. This version of the character guest starred in the DC Comics Saturday morning cartoon \"The All-New Super Friends Hour\".\n\nRima is mentioned, but not seen, in America's Best Comics' \"The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen\" vol. 2, #3 (2003), by writer Alan Moore and artists Kevin O'Neill and Ben Dimagmaliw: \"...it is near here that the world-famous 'bird girl' Riolama or Rima was discovered...\"\n\nRima is re-imagined in DC's 2010 title \"First Wave\".\n\nRima the Jungle Girl appeared in three episodes of Hanna-Barbera's \"The All-New Super Friends Hour\" during the 1977–78 season, alongside such mainstays as Aquaman, Batman, and Wonder Woman. In her run with the \"Super Friends\" TV series, she is often known for being one of the new 'affirmative action heroes' during that period. Along with characters Apache Chief, Black Vulcan, El Dorado (Super Friends), and Samurai, Rima is considered a minority character.\n\nShe first appears in \"Fire\" (October 1, 1977). Batman, Robin, and Rima the Jungle Girl contend with a spreading forest fire, and have to search for a pair of escaped prisoners who have stolen a forestry truck filled with dynamite. Rima's main contribution is to call upon a nearby bear to push down some trees for an emergency bridge across a wide gap. Her next appearance is in \"River of Doom\" (November 4, 1977): Wonder Woman and Rima the Jungle Girl search for archaeologists who have accidentally stumbled onto a burial ground of angry natives. The archaeologists are captured and sentenced to death on the River of Doom. The superheroes find the would-be victims by using indigenous animals to scout them out at Rima's command. They later rescue the scientists. Rima's main contribution is summoning crocodiles to attack their pursuers' canoes. Finally, she is featured in \"Return of Atlantis\", from October 25, 1980. Aquaman is captured by Queen Ocina when the lost city of Atlantis rises from the sea. Ocina plans to conquer the world with her female warriors, but Wonder Woman and Rima gather the Amazons of Paradise Island to stop her. Note: In breach of both DC Comics' and the \"Super Friends\" TV show's continuities, this \"Atlantis\" is not the kingdom over which Aquaman reigns.\n\nRima was mentioned in Ray Bradbury's 1950 short story, \"The Veldt\". Rima was also mentioned in \"Watcher in the Shadows\" by Geoffrey Household (1960; reissued 2010) and also in \"Vane Pursuit\" by Charlotte MacLeod (1989).\n\nDornford Yates mentioned her in Chapter I of his 1931 comic-detective novel \"Adele and Co.\", in connection with the Hudson Memorial (see below).\n\nThe Hudson Memorial in London's Hyde Park, created in 1925, has a bas-relief of Rima the Bird Girl as part of \nThe Hudson Memorial Bird Sanctuary, sculpted by Jacob Epstein.\n"}
{"id": "2109240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109240", "title": "Doctor Spektor", "text": "Doctor Spektor\n\nDoctor Spektor is a fictional comic book \"occult detective\" that appeared in Western Publishing's Gold Key Comics. Created by writer Donald F. Glut and artist Dan Spiegle, he first appeared in \"Mystery Comics Digest\" #5 (July 1972).\n\nAfter his first appearance in a 10-page story in \"Mystery Comics Digest\" #5, Dr. Spektor was spun off into his own title, \"The Occult Files of Doctor Spektor\". The series ran for 24 issues (May 1973 - February 1977). His final original story appeared in one issue of \"Gold Key Spotlight\" (#8, August 1977). Jesse Santos replaced Spiegle as artist on the series, and remained there for the entire run.\n\nDr. Spektor appeared in all four issues of Gold Key's \"Spine-Tingling Tales\" (1975–76), where he provided linking narration for some of the stories within (these stories were reprints from \"Mystery Comics Digest\" that dealt with characters who later appeared in his title). He also had stories he narrated in \"Mystery Comics Digest\" #10, #11, #12, and #21, and articles in \"Golden Comics Digest\" #25, #26, and #33.\n\nUnder the Whitman Comics name, issue #25 was released in May 1982. It reprinted issue #1, but with a line-art cover instead of the original painted cover.\n\nIn 2014, Dynamite Entertainment released a new version of \"Doctor Spektor\", written by Mark Waid and drawn by Neil Edwards, as part of the company's revival of several Gold Key characters which also included Magnus, Robot Fighter, Dr. Solar and Turok.\n\nDoctor Adam Spektor is an occult investigator, dealing with various occult menaces, such as mummies (Ra-Ka-Tep), vampires (Baron Tibor, Dracula), werewolves, and more. He is aided by Lakota Rainflower, his Sioux secretary (until issue #22), along with several semi-recurring assistants (Elliot Kane in issue #4 and #10, future love interest Lu-Sai in issues #12 and #24, his cousin Anne Sara in issue #17). Several of the monsters he encounters return in subsequent issues, and for three issues, Spektor became a werewolf (#11-13).\n\nIssues #2–11 contain short stories in the back 'from the occult files of Doctor Spektor' and narrated by Spektor, which many times include creatures and characters from the main series such as Durak (or at least his knife), Elliot Kane, and others.\n\nDon Glut had Dr. Spektor crossover with several of his other Gold Key characters such as Tragg and Dagar. Tragg and Lorn make cameo appearances in issue #19. Ostellon, Master of the Living Bones (from \"Dagar the Invincible\" #1), appears in issue #7; issue #15 concludes a story begun in \"Dagar\" #13, and Durak from \"Dagar\" appears in #16. Doctor Solar appears in several issues (#14, #18, #23), and Gold Key's the Owl appears in #22. Spektor also made a brief one-page appearance administering \"Dr. Spektor's Creature Quiz\" in Glut's children's book \"Monsters: Fiendish Facts, Quivery Quizzes and Other Grisly Goings-on\", also from Golden Press.\n\nDr. Spektor is a skilled investigator of the occult, and very knowledgeable about the lore of the paranormal. During issues #11-13 Dr. Spektor became a werewolf. During that time he possessed, while in werewolf form, increased strength, stamina, and invulnerability (except to silver weapons).\n\n"}
{"id": "2109245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109245", "title": "Master (Peerage of Scotland)", "text": "Master (Peerage of Scotland)\n\nThe heir apparent or heir presumptive to a Scottish peerage is known as a Master, or a Mistress if the heir is female. The heir's style is \"The Master of [Peerage]\" or \"The Mistress of [Peerage]\".\n\nIf the master is an heir apparent, and the peerage has a subsidiary title that could be used as a courtesy title, then the styling of Master is usually forgone. However, if the person is an heir presumptive, or if the peerage has no subsidiary title, then Master/Mistress is a common styling. However, because the word Mistress is quite archaic, many women choose not to use the style Mistress and instead use the regular styling, e.g. Lady Mary Smith or The Honourable Mary Smith.\n\nAlthough regarded today as a form of courtesy title, the Mastership is a dignity in its own right, and originally conferred rights of attendance in the Parliament of Scotland. As noblemen, Masters were ineligible for election to the House of Commons of Great Britain for Scottish constituencies. Masters whose elections were declared void on this basis included Lord Johnstone (the Master of Annandale), Lord Haddo (the Master of Aberdeen), Lord Strathnaver (the Master of Sutherland) and the Master of Sinclair. Lord Elcho was excluded from Parliament in 1787 on the grounds that he had become the Master of Wemyss, though in fact the peerage was under forfeiture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109249", "title": "Ramon L. Posel", "text": "Ramon L. Posel\n\nRamon L. Posel, art-cinema proponent and real estate developer. He was born August 1928 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; he died June 23, 2005, in New York City, from pancreatic cancer.\n\nPosel was born to Russian immigrants in Philadelphia, next to the Lyric Theater, one of seven movie houses owned by his father, Leo. Posel grew up watching movies in his family's theaters, starting with janitorial work and eventually working his way up to usher, and then working in the projection room while in high school. He excelled in Philadelphia's Central High School, both academically and athletically, gaining local fame as a football player. As a youth, Posel preferred novels to movies, as he felt movies lacked novels' \"resonance.\" His preferred recreational activities included jazz clubs. \n\nPosel attended Swarthmore College and Harvard Law School. He was an associate attorney at the Philadelphia law firm of Wolf, Block, Schorr & Solis-Cohen. When his father died, Posel took over the father's real estate business. \n\nIn 1976, he opened the regionally popular Ritz Three theater. (later, the Ritz Five). At first, the Ritz hemorrhaged money, but later on became profitable, and he opened the Ritz Bourse in 1990. \n\n"}
{"id": "2109268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109268", "title": "Blazing Arrow", "text": "Blazing Arrow\n\nBlazing Arrow is the second studio album by American hip hop duo Blackalicious. It was released on MCA Records on April 30, 2002.\n\nSteve Huey of AllMusic gave the album 4.5 stars out of 5, saying: \"All the pieces add up to not just one of the best rap albums of 2002, but one of the richest, most captivating albums to emerge from hip-hop's artsy new underground.\" Chris Dahlen of \"Pitchfork\" called it \"one of those classic summer albums that crams in so much sound and so much life that listening to it is like going to a block party, all-day concert and a family reunion all at the same time.\"\n\n\"Pitchfork\" placed it at number 46 on the \"Top 50 Albums of 2002\" list. \"Exclaim!\" listed it as one of the Top Ten albums of 2002. \"Kludge\" included it on their list of best albums of 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109271", "title": "Megatrain", "text": "Megatrain\n\nMegatrain is a provider of low-cost train travel in the United Kingdom. A subsidiary of the Stagecoach Group, its operations have been associated with its parent's East Midlands Trains, South West Trains, Virgin CrossCountry and Virgin Trains West Coast train operating companies. Even though Stagecoach ceased operating train franchises in its own right in August 2019, Megatrain services continue to operate on East Midlands Railway services.\n\nMegatrain tickets are available on specific services operated by East Midlands Railway. The available services are those that are generally not busy with tickets priced using the yield management model employed by low-cost airlines and sister company Megabus, where the lowest fares are offered to those who book early or on less popular journeys.\n\nIn addition to the point-to-point rail fares of Megatrain, Megabusplus provides combined rail and coach journeys between London and Yorkshire. East Midlands Railway services from London St Pancras connect with Stagecoach in Lincolnshire coach services to Huddersfield and Hull at East Midlands Parkway.\n\nPrices are advertised as starting at £1, with a 50p booking fee. Tickets must be purchased in advance, via the Megabus website or by telephone. Megatrain tickets are available Monday to Saturday only, and not on Sundays or public holidays.\n\nMegatrain was launched by Stagecoach on 14 November 2005, being piloted on two South West Trains routes, from London Waterloo to Portsmouth and Southampton from 14 November 2005 with ticket prices ranging from £1 to £19. Standard timetabled services by South West Trains initially had designated areas for Megatrain customers.\n\nOn 20 April 2006, Megatrain was extended to Bournemouth and Weymouth followed on 28 April 2006 by London Waterloo to Salisbury, Bath Spa, Bristol Temple Meads, Yeovil Junction, Exeter Central and Exeter St Davids. From 3 July 2006, Megatrain tickets were available on Virgin CrossCountry services from Birmingham New Street to Bournemouth, Bristol Temple Meads to Penzance, Manchester Piccadilly to Glasgow Central, Manchester Piccadilly to Edinburgh Waverley and Morpeth to Edinburgh Waverley.\n\nOn 6 March 2007,\"The Times\" reported that only 1 in 900 of the passengers carried by either South West Trains or Virgin CrossCountry bought a Megatrain low-fare ticket. The CrossCountry routes were withdrawn on 10 November 2007 when the CrossCountry franchise passed to Arriva CrossCountry.\n\nOn 2 January 2008, the Megatrain concept was extended to certain rail services on the East Midlands Trains franchise, with the introduction of Megatrain between London St Pancras and Sheffield and Nottingham. On 14 July 2008, Megatrain tickets were made available on certain Virgin Trains West Coast services from Birmingham New Street to Glasgow Central and Edinburgh Waverley.\n\nOn 5 January 2009 Megatrain was introduced between Sheffield and Norwich. On 20 March 2009 Megabusplus tickets offering for combined coach and train journeys from London via East Midlands Parkway railway station were introduced. Three feeder coach routes were provided to Halifax, Hull and York operated by Stagecoach in Lincolnshire with Volvo B10Ms.\n\nOperation of the South West Trains services ceased on 4 August 2017 coinciding with a closure at London Waterloo and reduction in service levels. The South Western franchise was taken over by South Western Railway a few weeks later. However, after the East Midlands franchise passed to East Midlands Railway in August 2019, Megatrain tickets continued to be available from London to Nottingham.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109279", "title": "Meta Linhas Aéreas", "text": "Meta Linhas Aéreas\n\nMeta Linhas Aéreas (Formerly META - Mesquita Transportes Aéreos) was an airline based in Boa Vista, Brazil, that operates domestic and international services to destinations in northern Brazil, Guyana, and Suriname. Its main base is Boa Vista-Atlas Brasil Cantanhede International Airport.\n\nSince July 2011 Meta does not operate scheduled flights.\n\nThe airline was established in 1991 by Francisco Assunção Mesquita, who remains the president, as an airline specialized in general aviation. It was then called Mesquita Táxi Aéreo. It is still owned by Francisco Mesquita (President) and Andrea Mesquita (Commercial Director).\n\nIn 1997 it was granted a concession to fly regular flights and initiated those operations with an Embraer EMB 110 Bandeirante, flying from Boa Vista to Manaus and Porto Velho. At that time it changed the name to Meta - Mesquita Transportes Aéreos.\n\nIn 1999 Meta received its first Embraer EMB 120 Brasília and was authorized to extend its operations to Santarém, Itaituba, Oriximiná, Macapá, Belém, Altamira, Monte Dourado and Breves. With the delivery of a second Brasília, operations were further extended to Porto de Moz and Georgetown (Guyana).\n\nIn 2007 the operations were downsized with the suspension of services to Breves, Monte Alegre and Porto de Moz.\n\nMeta still provides general aviation services using the Bandeirante aircraft, as well as maintenance service for other operators.\n\nOn May 13, 2011 the owner of Meta Linhas Aéreas was assassinated in Boa Vista. Since then the operation of scheduled flights has been irregular.\n\nAs of June 2011 Meta Linhas Aéreas operated scheduled services to the following destinations:\n\n\n\nAs of July 2011 the fleet of Meta Linhas Aéreas included the following aircraft:\n\n"}
{"id": "2109283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109283", "title": "Joint Institute for Marine Observations", "text": "Joint Institute for Marine Observations\n\nThe Joint Institute for Marine Observations (JIMO) is a research institute that is sponsored jointly by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)/Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) and University of California's Scripps Institution of Oceanography.\n\nThe JIMO research themes are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2109295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109295", "title": "Joint Institute for the Study of the Atmosphere and Ocean", "text": "Joint Institute for the Study of the Atmosphere and Ocean\n\nThe Joint Institute for the Study of the Atmosphere and Ocean (JISAO) has existed since 1977 for the purpose of fostering research collaboration between National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) and the University of Washington (UW). Dr. John K. Horne is the current director.\n\nIt is one of 16 NOAA Cooperative Institutes (CIs).\n\nThe JISAO research themes are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2109300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109300", "title": "Adam Gottlob Moltke", "text": "Adam Gottlob Moltke\n\nCount Adam Gottlob Moltke (10 November 171025 September 1792) was a Danish courtier, statesman and diplomat, and Favourite of Frederick V of Denmark. Moltke was born at Riesenhof in Mecklenburg. His son, Joachim Godske Moltke, and his grandson, Adam Wilhelm Moltke, later served as Prime Minister of Denmark.\n\nAdam Gottlob Greve Moltke was born 10/11 November 1710 to Joachim von Moltke and Magdalene Sophia von Cothmann. Though of German origin, many of the Moltkes were at this time in the Danish service, which was considered a more important and promising opening for the young north German noblemen than the service of any of the native principalities.\n\nIn 1722, through one of his uncles, young Moltke became a page at the Danish court, in which capacity he formed a lifelong friendship with the crown prince Frederick, later King Frederick V.\n\nIn 1730, immediately after his accession, Frederick made Moltke Lord Chamberlain and showered him with honours: He was made a privy councillor, was granted the estate of Bregentved in 1747 and created him a count in 1750.\nAs the companion of the king, Moltke's influence grew to the point that foreign diplomatists declared he could make and unmake ministers at will. Especially notable is Moltke's attitude towards the two distinguished statesmen who played the leading parts during the reign of Frederick, Johan Sigismund Schulin and The Elder Bernstorff. Schulin he revered, but Bernstorff irritated him with his affected airs of superiority. But though a Prussian intrigue was set up for the supersession of Bernstorff by Moltke, the latter, convinced that Bernstorff was the right man in the right place, supported him with unswerving loyalty.\n\nCount Moltke's appointment as Lord Chamberlain, an office that had previously been a mere court post, was now an outstanding position that gave Moltke opportunity as the king's confidential friend to be around him from morning till night, with the king talking to him about whatever was on his mind, which enabled Moltke to make his influence felt in all areas where he pleased. One of his main tasks was to take care that his dissolute Majesty didn't damage the Royal household's reputation with his constant orgies.\n\nMoltke was less liberal in his views than many of his contemporaries. He looked askance at all projects for the emancipation of the serfs, but, as one of the largest landowners of Denmark, he did service to agriculture by lightening the burdens of the countrymen and introducing technical and scientific improvements, which also increased production. His greatest merit, however, was the guardianship he exercised over the king.\n\nOn the death of Queen Louisa, the king would have married one of Moltke's daughters had he not peremptorily declined the dangerous honour. Moltke then arranged for a new marriage for the king, which took place at Frederiksborg Palace on 8 July 1752 to Frederick the Great of Prussia's sister-in-law Duchess Juliana Maria of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel, daughter of Ferdinand Albert II, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg.\n\nOn the death of Frederick, who died in his arms on 14 January 1766, Moltke's influence came to an end. The new king, Frederick's son, Christian VII, could not endure him, and exclaimed, with reference to his lanky figure: \"He's stork below and fox above\". At that time Moltke was also unpopular, because he was, wrongly, suspected of enriching himself from the public purse. Therefore, in July 1766, Moltke was dismissed from all his positions and retired to his estate at Bregentved.\n\nOn 8 February 1768, through the interest of Russia, to whom he had always been sympathetic, he regained his seat in the council, but his renewed influence was to be brief. As Christian VII's reign was marked by mental illness, he was heavily influenced by his personal physician Johann Friedrich Struensee. Streunesee had risen steadily in power and from 1770 to 1772, was \"de facto\" regent of the country.\n\nOn 10 December 1770, Moltke was again dismissed without a pension for refusing to have anything to do with the liberal Struensee. In short order, Struensee issued no fewer than 1,069 cabinet orders abolishing torture, unfree labour (corvée), censorship of the press, noble privileges, \"etiquette\" rules at the Royal Court, and banned slave trade in the Danish colonies. In addition, he instituted criminalisation and punishment of bribery, university reforms, assignment of farmland to peasants, and re-organization and reduction of the army After losing support of the people, partially as a result of his abolition of censorship of the press, Struensee was deposed by a coup in 1772, after which the country was ruled by the King's stepmother, Juliane Marie of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel, his half-brother Frederick and the Danish politician Ove Høegh-Guldberg.\n\nHe was married to Christiane Frederikke von Brüggemann (1712–1760). After her death, he married Sophie Hedevig von Raben (1732–1802), the daughter of Christian Frederik von Raben, the Gouverneur (or Bishop) of the Diocese of Lolland–Falster from 1737 to 1763. Between his two wives, Moltke was said to have had 22 sons, five of whom became cabinet ministers, four who became ambassadors, two who became generals, and all of whom went into public service.\n\n\nAdam Gottlob Moltke lived in retirement until his death on 25 September 1792.\n\nFrom 1748 to 1749, the district of Frederiksstaden was founded by King Frederick V to commemorate the tercentenary of the Oldenburg family's ascent to the throne of Denmark. While the development was the idea of Danish Ambassador Plenipotentiary in Paris, Johann Hartwig Ernst, Count von Bernstorff, Moltke, along with the royal architect, Nicolai Eigtved, spearheaded the construction. The project consisted of four identical mansions, built to house four distinguished families of nobility from the royal circles, placed around an octagonal square. Moltke's mansion, which was erected in 1750–54, was the most expensive of the four palaces at the time it was built, and had the most extravagant interiors. It's Great Hall (\"Riddersalen\") featured woodcarvings (\"boiserie\") by Louis August le Clerc, paintings by François Boucher and stucco by Giovanni Battista Fossati, and is acknowledged widely as perhaps the finest Danish Rococo interior. The mansion formally opened on 30 March 1754, the King's thirtieth birthday.\n\nOn 26 February 1794, the Royal Family found itself homeless after the Christiansborg Palace fire. As the Moltke and Schack families were willing to part with their mansions for promotion and money, the royal family, headed by the King Christian VII, acquired the first of the four palaces in the course of a few days, and commissioned Caspar Frederik Harsdorff to turn it into a royal residence. The family occupied the new residence December 1794. These mansions (now called Palaces) form the modern palace of Amalienborg.\n\nIn 1753, Moltke, as Director for the Danish Asiatic Company, commissioned an equestrian statue of King Frederik V from French sculptor Jacques-Francois-Joseph Saly. The foundation stone was laid in place in 1760 at the 100-year celebration of political absolutism in Denmark. The statue was finally unveiled in 1771, five years after King Frederik V's death in 1766.\n\nIn 1766–1769, he commissioned Caspar Frederik Harsdorff to build a memorial chapel for himself at Karise Church in Faxe, which had been begun Harsdorff's former teacher, architect Nicolas-Henri Jardin.\n\nMoltke owned a large art collection which was displayed in his palace; this was later opened to the public. In 1885 a catalogue was published of the collection, which consisted mostly of Dutch masters. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1764. His memoirs, written in German and published in 1870 are of considerable historical importance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109309", "title": "Prince of Coolavin", "text": "Prince of Coolavin\n\nPrince of Coolavin was a title first applied by popular usage to Charles MacDermot, 1707–1758, then head of the MacDermot family of Moylurg. Coolavin (Cúl ó bhFionn) is a barony in south County Sligo, in the Republic of Ireland. Up to the late 16th century the head of the family were still Kings of Moylurg, but had lost their lands due to confiscation. \n\nThe adoption of the term indicated that the family considered themselves Princes, and were in fact considered as such by their neighbours and kinsfolk. The title has continued to be used by the head of the family to denote their royal heritage, the current incumbent being Rory MacDermot, ninth of the MacDermots to be so styled. \n\n\n\"The Princess Royal\" or \"Miss 'MacDermot\" was a tune by the Irish harpist Turlough O'Carolan (1670 – 25 March 1738) . The tune was adopted for the sea shanty The Saucy Arethusa, written for \"The Lock and Key\" performed at the Theatre Royal, Covent Garden in 1796. While many attribute \"The Saucy Aruthesa\" to the composer William Shield others have attributed the adaptation to the playwright Prince Hoare.\n\nThe film \"Heroes and Princes\" by St. Aiden's National School, Monasteraden celebrates the MacDermot's of Collavin including the composition \"The Prince's march\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2109318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109318", "title": "Pollsmoor Prison", "text": "Pollsmoor Prison\n\nPollsmoor Prison, officially known as Pollsmoor Maximum Security Prison, is located in the Cape Town suburb of Tokai in South Africa. Nelson Mandela was one of the most famous people imprisoned there. He described Pollsmoor Prison as \"the truth of Oscar Wilde's haunting line about the tent of blue that prisoners call the sky.\"\n\nPollsmoor is a maximum security penal facility that continues to hold some of South Africa's most dangerous criminals. Although the prison was designed with a maximum capacity of 4,336 offenders attended by a staff of 1,278, the current inmate population is over 7,000 (a figure which fluctuates daily).\n\nMarlene Lehnberg, known as The Scissor Murderess, served her sentence in Pollsmoor but was paroled in 1986. Walter Sisulu and Ahmed Kathrada, both anti-apartheid activists, were also incarcerated at Pollsmoor. Alan Boesak served his prison term here after he was convicted of fraud in 2000.\n\nSince it was established in 1964, the prison has been systematically expanded, so that Pollsmoor today comprises five prisons:\n\nThe Pollsmoor Admission Centre (formerly the \"Maximum Prison\") is the largest of the five prisons making up the Pollsmoor Management Area. The vast majority of its approximately 3 200 inmates (almost half the total inmate population of Pollsmoor) are unsentenced awaiting-trial prisoners, or sentenced prisoners facing further charges. As an awaiting-trial prison (or remand centre) its population is constantly changing. On a daily basis, about 300 prisoners are booked out to appear in various courts around Cape Town. Some return as sentenced prisoners, others do not return at all, but large numbers come back to their cells to await a future court date, sometimes as distant as six months later.\n\nThe Pollsmoor Admission Centre receives prisoners sent to it by the courts. It is massively overcrowded, holding more than twice as many prisoners as it was designed for. By far the majority of prisoners live in communal bungalow cells, in which up to 40 prisoners sleep on double and triple bunks. Even the tiny single cells (of 2.5 by 2 metres) are occupied by one or three prisoners.\n\nGangsterism is a potent feature of Pollsmoor Prison life, and gangs are segregated into three separate sections on a single floor, accommodating a total of between 500 and 750. This segregation is in part an attempt to limit the gangs' ongoing recruitment of new members from amongst the recent arrivals. Because wardens are present in the sections for less than two-thirds of the day, the gangs are enormously powerful in the communal cells. Gang rule involves extreme violence, including sexual violence.\n\nThe prison's gangs, the 26s, 27s, and 28s, are collectively referred to as \"The Numbers\". The groups are loosely affiliated with one another, each having its own hierarchy, leadership, and function within the whole. The 26s secure money via gambling and smuggling. The 27s serve as gang enforcers. The 28s are the soldiers for all three groups, and deal with procuring and keeping sexual partners or \"wyfies\". Gang members mark membership with tattoos, and some remove their top front teeth, a body modification known as a \"passion gap.\"\n\nFew members achieve the means to leave these gangs after leaving prison. They tattoo their ranks on their bodies, even their faces so that even outside prison their status is clear. Some members are so tied into the gang culture that life outside is unthinkable, and would rather confess to a crime they didn't commit than be free men walking the streets.\n\nThe majority of prisoners are from depressed communities where there is large-scale unemployment, a lack of educational and other facilities, homelessness and gangsterism. As a predominantly awaiting-trial institution, there are few resources at Pollsmoor for prisoner programmes, other than visits by independent religious caregivers and non-governmental organisations. Inmates spend nearly all day in their overcrowded cells, and spend only one hour a day having outdoor exercise in enclosed courtyards. Little exercise occurs during this hour, since gang leaders utilise this time to communicate with prisoners in other cells, exchange drugs, mete out punishment to those in other cells etc. Any inmate who dares to exercise is called to \"attention\" before a gang leader, and may face punishment. Drugs are commonly smuggled into cells, mainly from returning prisoners and corrupt prison wardens.\n\nIn 2001 Pollsmoor prison was the subject of Clifford Bestall's BBC documentary, where they focussed on two soon-to-be-released prisoners, Erefan Jacobs and Mogamat Benjamin (then leader of the \"28\" gang), and followed their adapting into civilian life again after their release.\n\nOn 27 April 2005 (Freedom Day in South Africa) photographer Mikhael Subotzky exhibited his panoramic photographs of the inside of the prison, at Pollsmoor prison. It was titled \"'Die Vier Hoeke'\" (\"The Four Corners\") where the exhibition space echoed that which was being exhibited. Subotzky also commented on the meaning of this as well, where the viewers were part of the bureaucracy of getting into and eventually being locked into the maximum security prison.\n\nThis trend (of having art events inside prisons) was continued in November 2005 when a play was staged at another South African prison. When Herman Charles Bosman's \"Cold Stone Jug\" was staged at Zonderwater Prison in Cullinan, outside Pretoria, it was hailed as a world first. Never before had an audience gone to view a play, put on and acted in by prisoners, in a maximum security prison.\n\nIn the series \"Ross Kemp on Gangs\", Pollsmoor Prison was featured.\n\nIn the film \"Long Walk to Freedom\" Nelson Mandela is transferred from Robben Island to Pollsmoor Prison after serving 18 years on the island.\n\nThe Prisons Transformation Project is run by the University of Cape Town Centre for Conflict Resolution was inspired by the above-mentioned BBC documentary, and attempts to raise self-awareness among prisoners in an attempt at rehabilitation. This includes humane treatment that restores dignity, educating them on alternatives to violence in resolving conflict and giving them birds and feral cats to care for.\n"}
{"id": "2109320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109320", "title": "Maalbeek", "text": "Maalbeek\n\nThe Maelbeek or Maalbeek () is a stream that runs through several municipalities in Brussels, including Etterbeek, Ixelles, St-Josse-ten-Noode, Schaerbeek. It is a tributary of the Zenne, which it joins up in Schaerbeek, from its source located to the south near the Abbey of La Cambre. The name \"Maalbeek\", (meaning \"mill brook\"), comes from the Dutch words \"beek\" (meaning \"brook\") and \"maal\" (meaning \"to mill\"). Molenbeek has a similar derivation. It was vaulted in 1872, at which time there were 58 ponds along the stream. Nowadays, only six are left: the ponds of the Abbey of La Cambre; of Ixelles (two); of Leopold Park; of Marie-Louise Square; and of Josaphat Park.\n\nThe Maelbeek/Maalbeek metro station is located in the central area of this Maalbeek valley.\n\nThere is another stream in the vicinity named Maalbeek, also a tributary to the Zenne, in Grimbergen and two other streams named Molenbeek, found in Beersel and in Laeken. The Woluwe river also has a tributary named Kleine (little) Maalbeek, in Kraainem.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109324", "title": "Moonlight Express", "text": "Moonlight Express\n\nMoonlight Express is a 1999 Hong Kong-Japanese romance film directed by Daniel Lee and starring Leslie Cheung and Takako Tokiwa.\n\nHitomi, a Japanese resident, comes to Hong Kong after the death of her fiancé Tetsuya in a fatal accident to settle several important matters surrounding his demise. Although the incident was years ago, it has apparently left an indelible mark in her life as she could not forget him.\n\nEnter Kar-bo, an undercover cop, was involved in a drug bust-up which would later incriminate him. Hitomi stumbles into him and was amazed that he looked remarkably similar to her dead lover. They soon found themselves having strong feelings for each other, although at the same time, he has to flee to China as things have gone from bad to worse for him.\n\nWhat invariably follows is a constant cat-and-mouse game of running away from authorities who were tipped off as to his location and only ends when Kar-bo reached a ranch belonging to an old friend. Surprisingly, Hitomi, although conscious as to the fact that Kar-bo can never be as close to being the real Tetsuya, endures his hardships with him unfailingly and tests the resolve of both these troubled lovers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109330", "title": "Baltic Way", "text": "Baltic Way\n\nThe Baltic Way or Baltic Chain (also Chain of Freedom; ; ; ; \"Baltiysky put\") was a peaceful political demonstration that occurred on 23 August 1989. Approximately two million people joined their hands to form a human chain spanning across the three Baltic states – Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, which were considered at the time to be constituent republics of the Soviet Union.\n\nThe demonstration originated in \"Black Ribbon Day\" protests held in the western cities in the 1980s. It marked the 50th anniversary of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact between the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany. The pact and its secret protocols divided Eastern Europe into spheres of influence and led to the occupation of the Baltic states in 1940. The event was organised by Baltic pro-independence movements: Rahvarinne of Estonia, the Tautas fronte of Latvia, and Sąjūdis of Lithuania. The protest was designed to draw global attention by demonstrating a popular desire for independence and showcasing solidarity among the three nations. It has been described as an effective publicity campaign, and an emotionally captivating and visually stunning scene. The event presented an opportunity for the Baltic activists to publicise the Soviet rule and position the question of Baltic independence not only as a political matter, but also as a moral issue. The Soviet authorities responded to the event with intense rhetoric, but failed to take any constructive actions that could bridge the widening gap between the Baltic republics and the rest of the Soviet Union. Within seven months of the protest, Lithuania became the first of the Soviet republics to declare independence.\n\nAfter the Revolutions of 1989, 23 August has become an official remembrance day both in the Baltic countries, in the European Union and in other countries, known as the Black Ribbon Day or as the European Day of Remembrance for Victims of Stalinism and Nazism.\n\nThe Soviet Union denied the existence of the secret protocols to the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, even though they were widely published by western scholars after surfacing during the Nuremberg Trials. Soviet propaganda also maintained that there was no occupation and that all three Baltic states voluntarily joined the Union – the People's Parliaments expressed people's will when they petitioned the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union to be admitted into the Union. The Baltic states claimed that they were forcefully and illegally incorporated into the Soviet Union. Popular opinion was that the secret protocols proved that the occupation was illegal. Such an interpretation of the Pact had major implications in the Baltic public policy. If Baltic diplomats could link the Pact and the occupation, they could claim that the Soviet rule in the republics had no legal basis and therefore all Soviet laws were null and void since 1940. Such a position would automatically terminate the debate over reforming Baltic sovereignty or establishing autonomy within the Soviet Union – the states never \"de jure\" belonged to the union in the first place. This would open the possibility of restoring legal continuity of the independent states that existed in the interwar period. Claiming all Soviet laws had no legal power in the Baltics would also cancel the need to follow the Constitution of the Soviet Union and other formal secession procedures.\n\nIn anticipation of the 50th anniversary of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, tensions were rising between the Baltics and Moscow. Lithuanian Romualdas Ozolas initiated a collection of 2 million signatures demanding withdrawal of the Red Army from Lithuania. The Communist Party of Lithuania was deliberating the possibility of splitting off from the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. On 8 August 1989, Estonians attempted to amend election laws to limit voting rights of new immigrants (mostly Russian workers). This provoked mass strikes and protests of Russian workers. Moscow gained an opportunity to present the events as an \"inter-ethnic conflict\" – it could then position itself as \"peacemaker\" restoring order in a troubled republic. The rising tensions in anticipation of the protest spurred hopes that Moscow would react by announcing constructive reforms to address the demands of the Baltic people. At the same time fears grew of violent clampdown. Erich Honecker from East Germany and Nicolae Ceauşescu from Romania offered the Soviet Union military assistance in case it decided to use force and break up the demonstration.\n\nOn 15 August 1989, official daily newspaper \"Pravda\", in response to worker strikes in Estonia, published sharp criticism of \"hysteria\" driven by \"extremist elements\" pursuing selfish \"narrow nationalist positions\" against the greater benefit of the entire Soviet Union. On 17 August, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union published a project of new policy regarding the union republics in \"Pravda\". However, this project offered few new ideas: it preserved Moscow's leadership not only in foreign policy and defense, but also in economy, science, and culture. The project made few cautious concessions: it proposed the republics the right to challenge national laws in a court (at the time all three Baltic states had amended their constitutions giving their Supreme Soviets the right to veto national laws) and the right to promote their national languages to the level of the official state language (at the same time the project emphasised the leading role of the Russian language). The project also included law banning \"nationalist and chauvinist organisations,\" which could be used to persecute pro-independence groups in the Baltics, and a proposal to replace the Treaty on the Creation of the USSR of 1922 with a new unifying agreement, which would be part of the Soviet constitution.\n\nOn 18 August, \"Pravda\" published an extensive interview with Alexander Nikolaevich Yakovlev, chairman of a 26-member commission set up by the Congress of People's Deputies to investigate the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact and its secret protocols. During the interview, Yakovlev admitted that the secret protocols were genuine. He condemned the protocols, but maintained that they had no impact on the incorporation of the Baltic states. Thus Moscow reversed its long-standing position that the secret protocols did not exist or were forgeries, but did not concede that events of 1940 constituted an occupation. It was clearly not enough to satisfy the Baltics and on 22 August, a commission of the Supreme Soviet of the Lithuanian SSR announced that the occupation in 1940 was a direct result of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact and therefore illegal. It was the first time that an official Soviet body challenged the legitimacy of the Soviet rule.\n\nIn the light of \"glasnost\" and \"perestroika\", street demonstrations had been increasingly growing in popularity and support. On 23 August, 1986, Black Ribbon Day demonstrations were held in 21 western cities including New York, Ottawa, London, Stockholm, Seattle, Los Angeles, Perth, and Washington, DC to bring worldwide attention to human rights violations by the Soviet Union. In 1987, Black Ribbon Day protests were held in 36 cities including Vilnius, Lithuania. Protests against the Molotov Ribbentrop Pact were also held in Tallinn and Riga in 1987. In 1988, for the first time, such protests were sanctioned by the Soviet authorities and did not end in arrests. The activists planned an especially large protest for the 50th anniversary of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact in 1989. It is unclear when and by whom the idea of a human chain was advanced. It appears that the idea was proposed during a trilateral meeting in Pärnu on 15 July. An official agreement between the Baltic activists was signed in Cēsis on 12 August. Local Communist Party authorities approved the protest. At the same time several different petitions, denouncing Soviet occupation, were gathering hundreds of thousands of signatures.\n\nThe organisers mapped out the chain, designating specific locations to specific cities and towns to make sure that the chain would be uninterrupted. Free bus rides were provided for those who did not have other transportation. Preparations spread across the country, energising the previously uninvolved rural population. Some employers did not allow workers to take the day off from work (23 August fell on a Wednesday), while others sponsored the bus rides. On the day of the event, special radio broadcasts helped to coordinate the effort. Estonia declared a public holiday.\n\nThe Baltic pro-independence movements issued a joint declaration to the world and European community in the name of the protest. The declaration condemned the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, calling it a criminal act, and urged declaration that the pact was \"null and void from the moment of signing.\" The declaration said that the question of the Baltics was a \"problem of inalienable human rights\" and accused the European community of \"double standards\" and turning a blind eye to the \"last colonies of Hitler–Stalin era.\" On the day of the protest, \"Pravda\" published an editorial titled \"Only the Facts.\" It was a collection of quotes from pro-independence activists intended to show the unacceptable anti-Soviet nature of their work.\n\nThe chain connected the three Baltic capitals – Vilnius, Riga, and Tallinn. It ran from Vilnius along the A2 highway through Širvintos and Ukmergė to Panevėžys, then along the Via Baltica through Pasvalys to Bauska in Latvia and through Iecava and Ķekava to Riga (Bauska highway, Ziepniekkalna street, Mūkusalas street, Stone bridge, Kaļķu street, Brīvības's street) and then along road A2, through Vangaži, Sigulda, Līgatne, Mūrnieki and Drabeši, to Cēsis, from there, through Lode, to Valmiera and then through Jēči, Lizdēni, , Oleri, Rūjiena and Ķoņi to Estonian town Karksi-Nuia and from there through Viljandi, Türi and Rapla to Tallinn. The demonstrators peacefully linked hands for 15 minutes at 19:00 local time (16:00 GMT). Later, a number of local gatherings and protests took place. In Vilnius, about 5,000 people gathered in the Cathedral Square, holding candles and singing national songs, including \"Tautiška giesmė\". Elsewhere, priests held masses or rang church bells. Leaders of the Estonian and Latvian Popular Fronts gathered on the border between their two republics for a symbolic funeral ceremony, in which a giant black cross was set alight. The protesters held candles and pre-war national flags decorated with black ribbons in memory of the victims of the Soviet terror: Forest Brothers, deportees to Siberia, political prisoners, and other \"enemies of the people.\"\n\nIn Moscow's Pushkin Square, ranks of special riot police were employed when a few hundred people tried to stage a sympathy demonstration. TASS said 75 were detained for breaches of the peace, petty vandalism, and other offences. About 13,000 demonstrated in the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic which was also affected by the secret protocol. A demonstration was held by the Baltic émigré and German sympathizers in front of the Soviet embassy in Bonn, then West Germany.\nMost estimates of the number of participants vary between one and two million. Reuters News reported the following day that about 700,000 Estonians and 1,000,000 Lithuanians joined the protests. The Latvian Popular Front estimated an attendance of 400,000. Prior to the event, the organisers expected an attendance of 1,500,000 out of the about 8,000,000 inhabitants of the three states. Such expectations predicted 25–30% turnout among the native population. According to the official Soviet numbers, provided by TASS, there were 300,000 participants in Estonia and nearly 500,000 in Lithuania. To make the chain physically possible, an attendance of approximately 200,000 people was required in each state. Video footage taken from airplanes and helicopters showed an almost continuous line of people across the countryside.\n\nOn 26 August 1989, a pronouncement from the Central Committee of the Communist Party was read during the opening 19 minutes of \"Vremya\", the main evening news program on Soviet television. It was a sternly worded warning about growing \"nationalist, extremist groups\" which advanced \"anti-socialist and anti-Soviet\" agendas. The announcement claimed that these groups discriminated against ethnic minorities and terrorised those still loyal to Soviet ideals. Local authorities were openly criticised for their failure to stop these activists. The Baltic Way was referred to as a \"nationalist hysteria.\" According to the pronouncement, such developments would lead to an \"abyss\" and \"catastrophic\" consequences. The workers and peasants were called on to save the situation and defend Soviet ideals. Overall, there were mixed messages: while indirectly threatening the use of force, it also placed hopes that the conflict could be solved via diplomatic means. It was interpreted that the Central Committee had not yet decided which way to go and had left both possibilities open. The call to pro-Soviet masses illustrated that Moscow believed it still had a significant audience in the Baltics. Sharp criticism of Baltic Communist Parties was interpreted as signalling that Moscow would attempt to replace their leadership. However, almost immediately after the broadcast, the tone in Moscow began to soften and the Soviet authorities failed to follow up on any of their threats. Eventually, according to historian Alfred Erich Senn, the pronouncement became a source of embarrassment.\n\nPresident of the United States George H. W. Bush and chancellor of West Germany Helmut Kohl urged peaceful reforms and criticised the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. On 31 August, the Baltic activists issued a joint declaration to Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, Secretary-General of the United Nations. They claimed to be under threat of aggression and asked for an international commission to be sent to monitor the situation. On 19–20 September, the Central Committee of the Communist Party convened to discuss the nationality question – something Mikhail Gorbachev had been postponing since early 1988. The plenum did not specifically address the situation in the Baltic states and reaffirmed old principles regarding the centralised Soviet Union and the dominant role of the Russian language. It did promise some increase in autonomy, but was contradictory and failed to address the underlying reasons for the conflict.\n\nThe human chain helped to publicise the Baltic cause around the world and symbolised solidarity among the Baltic peoples. The positive image of the non-violent Singing Revolution spread among the western media. The activists, including Vytautas Landsbergis, used the increased exposure to position the debate over Baltic independence as a moral, and not just political question: reclaiming independence would be restoration of historical justice and liquidation of Stalinism. It was an emotional event, strengthening the determination to seek independence. The protest highlighted that the pro-independence movements, established just a year before, became more assertive and radical: they shifted from demanding greater freedom from Moscow to full independence.\n\nIn December 1989, the Congress of People's Deputies accepted and Mikhail Gorbachev signed the report by Yakovlev's commission condemning the secret protocols of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. In February 1990, the first free democratic elections to the Supreme Soviets took place in all three Baltic states and pro-independence candidates won majorities. On 11 March 1990, within seven months of the Baltic Way, Lithuania became the first Soviet state to declare independence. The independence of all three Baltic states was recognised by most western countries by the end of 1991.\n\nThis protest was one of the earliest and longest unbroken human chains in history. Similar human chains were later organised in many East European countries and regions of the USSR and, more recently, in Taiwan (228 Hand-in-Hand Rally) and Catalonia (Catalan Way). On the 30th anniversary of the Baltic Way, a human chain called the Hong Kong Way was formed during the 2019 Hong Kong anti-extradition bill protests. Documents recording the Baltic Way were added to UNESCO's Memory of the World Register in 2009 in recognition of their value in documenting history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109351", "title": "Month's mind", "text": "Month's mind\n\nA month's mind is a requiem mass celebrated about one month after a person's death, in memory of the deceased.\n\nIn medieval and later England, it was a service and feast held one month after the death of anyone in his or her memory. Bede speaks of the day as \"commemorationis dies\". These \"minding days\" were of great antiquity, and were survivals of the Norse \"minne\", or ceremonial drinking to the dead.\n\n\"Minnying Days,\" says Blount, \"from the Saxon Lemynde, days which our ancestors called their monthes mind, their Year's mind and the like, being the days whereon their souls (after their deaths) were had in special remembrance, and some office or obsequies said for them, as Obits, Dirges.\" The phrase is still used in Lancashire. \n\nIt is still an almost universal practice in Ireland (for Roman Catholics) for the family of the deceased and close friends to attend mass and take a meal together on the occasion of the month's mind.\n\nElaborate instructions for the conduct of the commemorative service were often left in wills. Thus, one Thomas Windsor (who died in 1479) orders that \"on my moneth's minde there be a hundred children within the age of sixteen years, to say for my soul,\" and candles were to be burned before the rood (cross) in the parish church and twenty priests were to be paid by his executors to sing Placebo, Dirige, and other songs. In the correspondence of Thomas, Lord Cromwell, one in 1536 is mentioned at which a hundred priests took part in the requiem mass. Commemorative sermons were usually preached, the earliest printed example being one delivered by John Fisher, bishop of Rochester, on Margaret, countess of Richmond and Derby, in 1509.\n"}
{"id": "2109352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109352", "title": "Quinonoid zwitterion", "text": "Quinonoid zwitterion\n\nA quinonoid zwitterion is a special type of zwitterion (or more precisely Mesoionic) based on quinone related chemical compounds. The benzene derivate 1,3-dihydroxy-4,6-diaminobenzene is easily oxidized by air in water or methanol to the quinonoid. This compound was first prepared in 1883 and the quinonoid structure first proposed in 1956. In 2002 the compound was found to be more stable and to exist as the zwitterion after a proton transfer. Evidence for this structure is based on NMR spectroscopy and x-ray crystallography. The positive charge is delocalized between the amino groups over 4 bonds involving 6 pi electrons. The negative charge is spread likewise between the oxygen atoms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109356", "title": "Trevor Steven", "text": "Trevor Steven\n\nTrevor McGregor Steven (born 21 September 1963) is an English former footballer. He became known as a member of the successful Everton side of the 1980s, and won 36 international caps for England.\n\nA right-sided midfielder, he grew through the ranks at Burnley, making his debut in 1981. Over the next two seasons he became a regular supplier of goals and Everton boss Howard Kendall, who was building a new team based on youth, decided to bid for him. He is now known for his media work, particularly with RTÉ Sport in Ireland.\n\nSteven began his professional football career with Burnley on leaving school in the summer of 1980, and broke into the first team in the 1981–82, at the age of 18, when he scored three goals in 36 league games to help Burnley win promotion to the Second Division as Third Division champions. He managed eight goals in the 1982–83 season, but was unable to prevent Burnley from going straight back down to the Third Division.\n\nBurnley accepted £300,000 for the 19-year-old Steven who joined Everton in the summer of 1983. He made his debut at the beginning of the following season, which proved a watershed campaign for Kendall's men. Despite finishing in 7th position in the Football League Championship, someway behind eventual champions, Liverpool, the season was saved – as was Kendall's job – by two excellent cup runs. In the League Cup final at Wembley, the Merseyside clubs drew 0–0 before Liverpool won the replay by a single Graeme Souness goal. Steven was not selected by Kendall, but by the time Everton lined back up at Wembley for the FA Cup final two months later, he was in the team.\n\nWatford were the opponents, and Steven played his part in the second goal of Everton's 2–0 success. As he ventured down the flank, Steven sent in an early, high and very awkward ball towards the Watford penalty area, which Everton centre forward Andy Gray and Watford goalkeeper Steve Sherwood challenged for together. Though Sherwood seemed to get two hands on the ball, Gray's challenge certainly involved contact with his head and the goal was given. Steven had played his part and an FA Cup winners' medal was his.\n\nThe following season, Steven further established his right-flank partnership with full back Gary Stevens, which was a strong and creative link-up. Kendall had completed his team-building process and Everton went from strength to strength, winning the First Division title for the first time in 15 years and reaching the FA Cup final again. Steven established himself as one of the best midfield players in Europe with his ability to take players on with his attacking skills combined with defensive duties when needed.\n\nThe \"double\" chances evaporated when Manchester United, despite being down to ten men, won at Wembley in extra time, but there was consolation for Everton when they defeated Rapid Vienna 3–1 in the final of the European Cup Winners Cup in Rotterdam. Steven scored the second goal with a crisp, close-range volley after Rapid failed to clear a corner. He had also scored a crucial goal in the semi-final against Bayern Munich. In the league, he managed 12 goals from 40 games and was among their top scorers.\n\nNext season, Everton lost the League title to Liverpool on the last day of the season, and then Steven suffered FA Cup heartbreak for the second season in a row when Liverpool beat Everton 3–1 at Wembley. However, his season ended with some joy as he was selected by Robson for the squad which would represent England in Mexico at the World Cup.\n\nRobson preferred Waddle as his one orthodox wide man for the opening game against Portugal, but England played poorly and lost 1–0. No changes were made, despite this defeat, and England suffered a nervy and embarrassing goalless draw against Morocco, meaning they had to win their final group game or they were out.\n\nAs a consequence, Steven got his World Cup chance as Robson ditched Waddle and went for the creative but disciplined pairing of Steven on the right and Hodge on the left. It paid dividends, as Steven combined down his flank with Stevens, as ever, to set up an opening goal for Gary Lineker; Hodge then set up Lineker's second, and Steven delivered a corner which went uncleared, allowing Lineker to complete his hat-trick.\n\nA year later he enjoyed another title triumph as Everton finished champions of the league with Steven scoring 14 goals – the most league goals he scored in a season for the club.\n\nThe time had come for Steven to move and Souness, then manager of Rangers, offered him the chance to pair up with his friend Stevens and reform their renowned partnership down the right. Offers came in from other big clubs, including Manchester United, where Alex Ferguson was rebuilding his midfield around Bryan Robson, but Steven chose Ibrox when he exited Goodison Park in the 1989 close season. His main reason for doing so seemed to be the attraction of European football, as the ban on English clubs was ongoing and Steven had been denied the chance to play in the European Cup with Everton as a consequence. So, after 299 appearances and 60 goals, Steven left Everton in a £1.5 million deal and went to Scotland.\n\nDespite being the latest in a sequence of high-profile England internationals signed by Graeme Souness, Steven's arrival at Ibrox was relatively low-key, principally because it coincided with the controversial signing of Mo Johnston – the first high-profile, established Roman Catholic player to be signed by Rangers in the post-war period. Steven rapidly became a solid member of the Rangers squad, securing a league championship in his first season.\n\nHis form at Ibrox persuaded Bobby Robson to retain him in the England squad, though by now his choices on the flanks had ventured toward the more adventurous, with Waddle and Barnes now ahead of Steven and Hodge in the stakes. However, Steven made the final cut of 22 players for the tournament in Italy when Robson announced it, edging out the unlucky David Rocastle.\n\nSteven did not feature in the tournament until the quarter final against Cameroon when he came on as a substitute as England found themselves behind in the second half. He did the same thing again in the semi-final – again replacing his Rangers teammate Terry Butcher – as England chased the game against West Germany, ultimately forcing a draw and a penalty shootout. Steven didn't take a penalty and England went out. He finally started a game when Robson put him in the team for the showpiece third-place play-off against Italy, which England lost 2–1.\n\nRobson's successor Graham Taylor selected Steven for a number of friendly internationals but he didn't play in any of the qualifying games for the 1992 European Championships. Then England suffered an almighty injury crisis prior to the tournament in Sweden and Taylor put Steven in his squad, selecting him on the right flank in an England side which looked unrecognisable from the one which had reached a World Cup semi-final two summers earlier. Steven played in the group games against Denmark and France, both of which ended goalless, but was dropped for the final game against the hosts, which England lost 2–1, ensuring their elimination. Steven's England career ended there, with 36 caps and four goals.\n\nIn August 1991, Steven moved for £5.5 million - the joint-highest fee involving a British player at the time, shared with David Platt of Aston Villa, who had been transferred to Italian club Bari for the same amount in July 1991 - to Olympique Marseille where he stayed for one season, winning the French league title.\n\nHowever, his future in the south of France had looked uncertain within months of his arrival. In December 1991, it was reported that the financially troubled club were prepared to sell Steven back to Rangers to cut their heavy losses. However, he stayed with the club until the end of the season. Despite reports on 22 July 1992 that Steven had agreed to sign for English league champions Leeds United, he returned to Rangers four days later for a fee of £2.2million.\n\nSteven's second period at Ibrox was undermined by a succession of minor injuries, although they were league champions in each of the next five seasons (one of them as treble winners and two as double winners) before Steven retired from playing in 1997. He was a regular player in the first of his seasons back at Ibrox, but managed just 11 appearances in the 1994–95 season (when Rangers won their seventh successive title and their fifth that Steven had been involved in) and with the arrival of Paul Gascoigne he managed only six league appearances. His final season, 1996–97, brought eight league appearances and one goal as Rangers matched Celtic's record of nine successive Scottish league titles.\n\nA stunning season for Steven was completed when, in February 1985, he was called up by England coach Bobby Robson to make his debut in a qualifier for the 1986 World Cup against Northern Ireland. He stayed in the side for the next three games, scoring his first goal in a friendly win over the Republic of Ireland and contributing to a brace of drawn qualifiers versus Romania and Finland.\n\nWhen he was awarded his fifth cap against Italy at the beginning of a summer mini-tournament in North America, he was joined behind him by his Everton teammate Stevens, therefore transferring a successful and feared partnership to the international stage. However, Steven soon had a rival for the right flank as Robson began to explore various combinations for his wide men. Chris Waddle was a more flamboyant and explosive player than Steven (and John Barnes was similarly so against the more stoic Steve Hodge on the left flank) but Robson often preferred the consistency and team play of Steven on the right wing and he became a frequent choice as a result.\n\nSteven scored his second England goal in a 5–0 thumping of the USA in Los Angeles at the conclusion of the summer tour. Everton again challenged for First Division and FA Cup honours. In January 1986 he scored the opening goal in a 4–0 win over Egypt in Cairo and continued to be selected as the World Cup neared. He played as England thrust aside Paraguay in the second round but in the quarter final, with England 2–0 down against Argentina, he was sacrificed midway through the second half by Robson to give Barnes his first run-out. Barnes single-handedly destroyed the Argentine defence but could only set up one goal and England were eliminated. The next year saw him settled back into a dominant Everton side, which regained the League title with some panache. He also played a full part in a robust qualification campaign for the 1988 European Championships. By the time the tournament came round in the summer of 1988, Steven had a healthy 22 caps.\n\nThe competition was a disaster, as England succumbed to tiredness to lose all three of their group games. Steven in the squad, missed the opening defeat to the Republic of Ireland, but played in the 3–1 defeat by the Netherlands, after which his pal Stevens was lambasted for some weak defending against Dutch centre forward Marco van Basten, who scored a memorable hat-trick. Steven stayed in the team for the now meaningless final group game against the 1–3 defeat against USSR, which was the worst performance of the lot, although he was unlucky not to give England the lead when his header hit the underside of the crossbar when the score was still 1–1.\n\nEngland came home in disgrace but Robson stayed in his job and Steven stayed in his plans as the qualifiers for the 1990 World Cup loomed, edging out Arsenal's David Rocastle. However, his right flank partner Stevens left Everton to join Rangers and Steven struggled to form a similar telepathy with replacement Neil McDonald. Everton ended the season without a trophy – losing the FA Cup final to Liverpool again – and Steven wasn't called up for England until the end-of-season Rous Cup shindig against Scotland, which England won. Steven made his last appearance for England during Euro 92 in Sweden, in the 0–0 goalless draw in a group game against France on 14 June 1992. He had played 36 times for England at senior level, and scored four goals.\n\nSince he retired, Steven has worked in the media. In his early career, he worked as a co-commentator for the BBC during their coverage of the 2002 FIFA World Cup.\n\nSteven now acts as a pundit for RTÉ Sport in Ireland, having covered the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany for the broadcaster. He is also a regular contributor to RTÉ's coverage of the Premier League and UEFA Champions League, acting both as analyst and co-commentator. He contributed to RTÉ Sport's coverage of the 2010 FIFA World Cup and the 2014 FIFA World Cup.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109361", "title": "Kiani Crown", "text": "Kiani Crown\n\nThe Kiani Crown (Persian: تاج کیانی) was the traditional coronation crown in the Iranian Crown Jewels which was used during the Qajar dynasty (1796–1925). \n\nThe crown itself is made of red velvet, on which thousands of gems were set. The Kiani Crown is highly decorated, possessing 1800 small pearls, many only 7 millimetres in diameter, stitched onto it. It has approximately 300 emeralds and 1,800 rubies. The crown is 32 cm (12.5 in.) high and 19.5 cm (7.5 in.) wide. It is currently kept in the National Treasury of Iran in Tehran.\n\nReza Shah, the founder of the Pahlavi dynasty, had his own Pahlavi Crown designed, but the Kiani Crown was present during his coronation in 1926. \n\nMiddle and New Persian \"kay(an)\" originates from Avestan \"kavi\" (or \"kauui\") \"king\" and also \"poet-sacrificer\" or \"poet-priest\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109362", "title": "Nordeste Linhas Aéreas Regionais", "text": "Nordeste Linhas Aéreas Regionais\n\nNordeste Linhas Aéreas Regionais was a regional airline based in Brotas, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil which operated scheduled passenger services in northeast and southeast Brazil. Its main base was Deputado Luís Eduardo Magalhães International Airport, Salvador.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2008, Viação Aérea Rio-grandense (informally known as old Varig) used the brand Nordeste Linhas Aéreas for its operations.\n\nOn November 11, 1975 the Brazilian Federal Government created the Brazilian Integrated System of Regional Air Transportation and divided the country in five different regions, for which five newly created regional airlines received a concession to operate air services. Nordeste Linhas Aéreas Regionais S/A was the second of those regional airlines to be made operational. Its services started on June 25, 1976 and its operational area comprised roughly the Northeast and parts of the Southeast regions of Brazil, specifically the states of Piauí, Ceará, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraíba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia and parts of Maranhão, Minas Gerais, and Espírito Santo plus the possibility of serving the cities of Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, and Brasília when linking them to its area of concession.\n\nOriginally Nordeste was formed by the Bahia state government which provided two-thirds of the start-up capital and Transbrasil which provided one-third.\n\nIn 1995 Nordeste was bought and incorporated by Rio Sul Serviços Aéreos Regionais, an airline owned by Ruben Berta Foundation, a foundation that also owned Varig. Finally, in 2002 the administration of Varig, Rio-Sul and Nordeste was unified, although Ruben Berta Foundation kept the three brand names independent. At that time, the brands Nordeste and Rio Sul provided feeder services to Varig.\n\nOn 17 June 2005 Varig including its former subsidiaries requested to be placed under bankruptcy protection and to begin a recovery process. The request was granted on 22 June 2005.\n\nAs part of this process, the airline was divided into two portions, informally known as \"old\" Varig and \"new\" Varig. \"Old\" Varig was judicially known as Viação Aérea Rio-grandense. \"New\" Varig, judicially known as VRG Linhas Aéreas, is a new airline formed with some assets of the original Varig and which was auctioned on 14 July 2006. The legal procedures were finalized on 20 July 2006. Since that day VRG Linhas Aéreas and Viação Aérea Rio-grandense have been different judicial entities and airlines.\n\nAt the time of the auction, the assets of VRG Linhas Aéreas comprised the brands Varig and Rio Sul, Varig's route rights, all aircraft but one and the Smiles mileage program. VRG Linhas Aéreas was bought by VarigLog. On 28 March 2007 VarigLog sold \"new Varig\" to Gol Transportes Aéreos, which presently operates the brand Varig and retains but does not operate the brand Rio Sul.\n\nViação Aérea Rio-grandense, informally known as \"old Varig\", retained the brand of Varig's former subsidiary Nordeste Linhas Aéreas Regionais, the IATA code of Nordeste, one aircraft, debts, liabilities, legal disputes, and various assets, concessions and properties of the original Varig. Since \"old Varig\", could not use the brand name Varig anymore, it used the brand name Nordeste Linhas Aéreas. Later, on October 23, 2007, the brand name was changed to Flex Linhas Aéreas.\n\nBetween 17 June 2005 and 2 September 2009, Viação Aérea Rio-Grandense, operator of the brand Nordeste Linhas Aéreas and since 2007 known by the brand Flex, remained in Recovery Order in the 1st Business Court of Rio de Janeiro, under the leadership of Judges Luiz Roberto Ayoub and Miguel Dau. Since bankruptcy protection was lifted, the administration of the airline returned to its original owner, Fundação Ruben Berta. Currently \"old Varig\" is on a BRL4 billion (USD2,1 billion, EUR1,5 billion) judicial dispute with the Federal Government of Brazil, a sum that corresponds to approximately 50% of its debts. The question is under analysis at the Federal Supreme Court and the airline has already won the cause in all other instances. Furthermore, the financial problems of \"old Varig\" persist, including momentary failure to pay the due insurance costs of its sole aircraft and leasing fees to the owner of the aircraft.\n\nOn November 10, 2009 the director Aurélio Penelas was replaced by Carlos Berardinelli, who was able to reach an agreement with the lessor weeks later.\n\nAs a result of accumulated debts around BRL10 billion (USD5,7 billion, EUR4,5 billion), on August 20, 2010, at the request of the administrator, the 1st Business Court of Rio de Janeiro declared Flex, which included remaining assets of Nordeste, bankrupt and initiated the process of liquidation.\n\nNordeste Linhas Aéreas Regionais operated services (in its own right) to the following domestic scheduled destinations (at January 2005): Porto Seguro, Salvador and São Paulo.\n\nAt the time of shut-down Nordeste Linhas Aéreas Regionais had a fleet of five aircraft.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109380", "title": "Dagar the Invincible", "text": "Dagar the Invincible\n\nTales of Sword and Sorcery Featuring Dagar the Invincible is a comic book series created by writer Donald F. Glut and artist Jesse Santos for Western Publishing's Gold Key Comics line.\n\nThe first issue had the cover date of October 1972. The series was published on a quarterly schedule and only 18 issues were produced. The final issue appeared with a cover date of December 1976 and reprinted the first issue. Later on, a new story appeared in \"Gold Key Spotlight\" #6, in July 1977. Whitman would later publish a reprint issue, #19, in April, 1982.\n\nIn fall of 2011, Dark Horse Comics started a hardcover archive reprint series. The first volume reprinted #1–9.\n\nDagar was a sword and sorcery series, set in a mythical past of warriors and wizards. There were a few secondary characters (Durak in #7, 12, 13; Torgus in #9, 10, 13). Don Glut also tied in his other Gold Key characters such as Tragg and Doctor Spektor. In #5 Tragg's Neanderthal brother Jarn appeared. Tragg cameoed in issue #11. In issue #13, the story actually crossed over into and was concluded in issue #15 of \"The Occult Files of Dr. Spektor\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2109384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109384", "title": "Erich Abraham", "text": "Erich Abraham\n\nErich Abraham (27 March 1895 – 7 March 1971) was a general in the Wehrmacht of Nazi Germany who command the 76th Infantry Division then the LXIII Corps on the Western Front during World War II. He was also a recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves.\n\nAbraham was born in Marienburg, East Prussia in 1895. He volunteered for military service after the outbreak of World War I and the following year was commissioned as a \"Leutnant der Reserve\". He was demobilised in 1920 as an honorary \"Oberleutnant\", and joined the police. He returned to military service in 1935 in the rank of \"Major\". He commanded an infantry battalion in the 105th Infantry Regiment in 1936–39, being promoted to \"Oberstleutnant\" in 1938. In 1939, he was transferred to the 266th Infantry Regiment, again commanding a battalion for a year. In 1940 he was appointed as the commanding officer of the 230th Infantry Regiment, and in 1941 was promoted to \"Oberst\", continuing in command of that regiment until 1942. During his time in command of the 230th Infantry Regiment, he was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross.\n\nOn 17 February 1943 he was appointed to command the 76th Infantry Division which was being rebuilt in France after the original division had been destroyed at Stalingrad. He was promoted to \"Generalmajor\" on 1 June 1943, after which he led the division initially to Italy before being moved to Army Group South on the Eastern Front during the winter of 1943–44. On 1 January 1944, Abraham was promoted to \"Generalleutnant\". He continued to command the division in heavy fighting and during the withdrawal in the face of the Red Army Dnieper–Carpathian Offensive, and other than for a short time in July–August, commanded the division until October 1944. While commanding the division, he was awarded the Oak Leaves to his Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross. Later that year he was appointed to command LXIII Corps. In March 1945 he was promoted to \"General der Infanterie\". Captured at the end of the war, he was released in August 1947. After release he lived in Wiesbaden, West Germany. He died in 1971.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109388", "title": "Charles Grigsby", "text": "Charles Grigsby\n\nCharles William Grigsby, Jr. (born September 15, 1978) is an American singer and contestant on the second season of \"American Idol\".\n\nThe youngest of six siblings, Grigsby was born in Oberlin, Ohio.\n\nIn high school, he joined the school choir. After high school, Grigsby moved to Detroit, Michigan and enrolled in school to study computer-aided design.\n\nGrigsby auditioned for the second season of \"American Idol\" where he sang \"Overjoyed\" by Stevie Wonder in the first semi-final group and was one of two contestants from the round to automatically advance to the final 12.\n\nIn the finals he sang \"How Sweet It Is (To Be Loved by You)\" by Marvin Gaye and advanced to the top eleven, where he was eliminated after singing \"You Can't Win\" from \"The Wiz.\"\n\nOn July 21, 2005, Grigsby released, \"Charles Grigsby\", an EP self-titled consisting of six tracks. In 2008 he joined The Croonerz that performed in local venues across northeast Ohio. In September 2010, he then became the lead vocalist in Centric in the Hard Rock Cafe in Pattaya, Thailand.\n\nOn September 1, 2011, he released a music download single \"Headliner\" and performed the song on WJW Fox 8 Cleveland News. A benefit concert featuring Grigsby was held at The First Church in Oberlin on September 11, 2011.\n"}
{"id": "2109390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109390", "title": "Europass", "text": "Europass\n\nEuropass is a European Union (Directorate General for Education and Culture) initiative to increase transparency of qualification and mobility of citizens in Europe. It aims to make a person's skills and qualifications clearly understood throughout Europe (including the European Union, European Economic Area and EU candidate countries).\n\nThe five Europass documents are the Curriculum Vitae, Language Passport, Europass Mobility, Certificate Supplement, and Diploma Supplement, sharing a common brand name and logo. Since 2012 individuals have been able to assemble all Europass documents in the European Skills Passport.\n\nThe European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) developed and maintains the Europass portal in 27 languages. The portal is the reference resource of information related to the five Europass documents. Its purpose is also to help all users create, with a simple wizard, a personal electronic portfolio containing a curriculum vitae (with motivation letter), a language passport or any other document bringing evidence of skills and qualifications (copies of degrees, work certificates, etc.)\n\nIn every country, a National Europass Centre promotes and provides information on the Europass documents.\n\nEuropass has produced an XML vocabulary to describe the information contained in the CV and Language Passport. A Europass CV or Language Passport can be saved in Europass XML format or PDF format with the XML attached. Both formats can be imported into the Europass online editors or any other system that understands the Europass XML, ensuring that all information is properly parsed.\n\nEuropass Web services provide a standard way (web API) for other systems, software, and services to use Europass services in an automated way. An example is the web service which enables the remote generation of Europass documents in PDF, OpenDocument, or Microsoft Word formats, starting from a Europass XML file.\n\nText labels used for the Europass CV and ELP (European Language Passport) are available in various formats from the Europass website:\n\nThe Directorate General for Education and Culture has co-financed the European project \"KITE\" under the Leonardo da Vinci programme. KITE offers an implementation of the Europass-CV as a plug-in for the open-source software weblogs WordPress and Dotclear. The plugin allow users of those blogging services to store a Europass CV in all European official languages and export it into the following formats: PDF, ODT, HTML, XHTML, HR-XML. The plugin is compliant with HR-XML SEP specifications. Last version of the plugin has been released in January 2008.\n\nThe Europass framework was established by Decision 2241/2004/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 December 2004 on a single Community framework for the transparency of qualifications and competences (Europass) and entered into force on 1 January 2005 by its own terms.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109391", "title": "Tobacco Factory", "text": "Tobacco Factory\n\nThe Tobacco Factory is the last remaining part of the old W. D. & H. O. Wills tobacco factory site on Raleigh Road, Southville, Bristol. It was saved from demolition by the architect and former mayor of the city George Ferguson and through his vision has become a model of urban regeneration. It is now a multi-use building which houses animation and performing arts school, loft-style apartments, a café bar, offices and a theatre.\n\nInspired by the Manchester Independents campaign, George Ferguson decided to launch a Bristol-based campaign from the Tobacco Factory, the purpose is to encourage the support and patronage of independent outlets and businesses to help redress the balance that has swung strongly in favour of the multiples at the expense of local character and enterprise. Business at the Tobacco Factory epitomises this, with home grown enterprises, such as Fanatic Design, CLIK.\n\nThe motto worn on the shirts of the bar staff is \"Strike a light for Independents!\"\n\nThe factory was built between 1898 and 1901 as 'Number 3 Factory' for W.D. & H.O. Wills. The building was used to process tobacco until 1985-6 when Imperial Tobacco, which W.D & H.O. Wills had latterly been a part of, relocated production. The building fell into disrepair until 10 September 1993, when George Ferguson bought the building with the plan to regenerate it as a creative, mixed-use community building.\n\nSince the creation of the theatre space on the first floor in 1998, companies including Show of Strength Theatre Company, Shakespeare at the Tobacco Factory, the Royal National Theatre and The Ministry of Entertainment have performed there as well as regular in house productions. The theatre is now recognised by Bristol City Council as a key arts provider. The theatre gained funding from the Arts Council of England for the first time in 2007. The current director of the theatre is Ali Robertson.\n\nThe Tobacco Factory Café Bar opened in November 2001, serving Mediterranean style food in a post-industrial setting. Regular music nights complement the theatre upstairs.\n\nExtensive records of W.D. & H.O. Wills, who originally developed the site as a factory for processing tobacco, are held at Bristol Archives (Ref. 38169) (online catalogue).\n\n"}
{"id": "2109406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109406", "title": "Lotus 31", "text": "Lotus 31\n\nThe Lotus 31 was a racing car produced by Lotus for the new 1-litre Formula 3 introduced in 1964, replacing the expensive Formula Junior. The chassis was a multi-tubular spaceframe, of similar design to the 1962 Lotus 22 Formula Junior. A Ford Cosworth 105E with Single Choke Weber or SU carburettors produced at 8000rpm. The 31 had little success against the more advanced monocoque cars that dominated in 1964. Records show only 12 were built in 1964/5. \n\nIn 1966 19 cars were built with the Chassis 22/F3. The relative simplicity and low price of the car made it an ideal training car. Motor Racing Stables at Brands Hatch ran four cars to graduate students from Lotus Cortinas. The Jim Russell Racing Driver School ran the cars at Snetterton, later being recognised as a club by the RAC. The JIm Russell School ran five 31's at Brands Hatch BARC Trophy Races in July 1967. \n"}
{"id": "2109407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109407", "title": "Car key", "text": "Car key\n\nA car key or an automobile key is a key used to open and/or start an automobile. Modern key designs are usually symmetrical, and some use grooves on both sides, rather than a cut edge, to actuate the lock. It has multiple uses for the automobile with which it was sold. A car key can open the doors, as well as start the ignition, open the glove compartment and also open the trunk (boot) of the car. Some cars come with an additional key known as a valet key that starts the ignition and opens the driver's side door, but prevents the valet from gaining access to valuables that are located in the trunk or the glove box. Some valet keys, particularly those to high-performance vehicles, go so far as to restrict the engine's power output to prevent joyriding. Recently, features such as coded immobilizers have been implemented in newer vehicles. More sophisticated systems make ignition dependent on electronic devices, rather than the mechanical keyswitch. A number of these systems, such as KeeLoq and Megamos Crypto have been demonstrated to be weak and vulnerable to cryptanalytic attacks.\n\nIgnition switches or locks are combined with security locking of the steering column (in many modern vehicles) or the gear lever (such as in Saab Automobile vehicles). In the latter, the switch is between the seats, preventing damage to the driver's knee in the event of a collision.\n\nKeyless entry systems, which use either a door-mounted keypad or a remote control in place of a car key, have become a standard feature on most new cars. Some of them are handsfree.\n\nSome high-tech automotive keys are billed as theft deterrents. Mercedes-Benz uses a key that, rather than have a cut metal piece to start the car, uses an encoded infrared beam that communicates with the car's computer. If the codes match, the car can be started. These keys can be expensive to replace if lost and can cost up to US $400.\n\nA switchblade key is basically the same as any other car key, except in appearance. The switchblade key is designed to fold away inside the fob when it is not being used. Switchblade keys have become very popular recently because of their smart compact look. These type of keys are also commonly referred as Flip Keys. Because switchblade keys are only developed for new car models, they are usually equipped with a programmed transponder chip.\n\nAutomobiles had door keys earlier, but the first ignition keys that also operated the starter mechanism were introduced by Chrysler in 1949. Popular Mechanics, in April 1949, wrote:\n\nIn the 1950s, early versions of \"flip keys\" resembling jack knives were made by the Signa-Craft company out of New York with various period U.S. automaker's prototype \"Dream Cars\" like the Pontiac Strato-Streak and the Cadillac El Camino featured on them. These are now popular with collectors.\n\nSigna-Craft and other manufacturers like Curtis, Taylor Locks, and Mr. Key also produced keys for many 1950's-1970's makes and models known as \"Crest Keys\". These were automotive keys that featured an enameled rendition of the auto manufacturer's logo on the bow and were plated in 14k gold. During the early 1960s, these special keys became so popular that oil companies like Mobil, Texaco, and Union 76 began issuing their own logoed versions as promotional items for their customers. Today, these early automotive crest keys are highly sought after by collectors.\n\nMeanwhile, companies like Briggs and Stratton, and Hurd, were making key blanks with automaker's logos on them. These became known as \"Logo Blanks\". These key blanks were the same as the original keys issued by the automaker, and allowed the owner to purchase duplicate keys identical to the original.\n\nCar enthusiasts, who enter competitive car shows, attempt to maintain the stock look of their car keys. Picky car show judges will often score a vehicle down for not having a correct set of keys with the original automaker's logo, and lock code, stamped on them. Many of these original logo blanks are no longer manufactured and are only available from dwindling old stock supplies.\n\nAn internal cut (also known as \"sidewinder\" or \"laser cut\") key has a rectangular blade with a wavy groove cut up the center of the face of the blade, at a constant depth.\n\nTypically the key has an identical wavy groove on the back of the blade, making it symmetrical so it works no matter which way it is inserted. These keys must be cut by special key cutting machines made for them.\n\nTransponder keys may also be called \"chip keys\". Transponder keys are automotive ignition keys with signal-emitting circuits built inside.\n\nWhen the key is turned in the ignition cylinder, the car's computer transmits a radio signal to the transponder circuit. The circuit has no battery; it is energized by the radio signal itself. The circuit typically has a computer chip that is programmed to respond by sending a coded signal back to the car's computer. If the circuit does not respond or if the code is incorrect, the engine will not start. Many cars immobilize if the wrong key is used by intruders. Chip Keys successfully protect cars from theft in two ways: forcing the ignition cylinder won't start the car, and the keys are difficult to duplicate. This is why chip keys are popular in modern cars and help decrease car theft.\n\nMany people who have transponder keys, such as those that are part of Ford Motor Company's SecuriLock system, are not aware of the fact because the circuit is hidden inside the plastic head of the key. On the other hand, General Motors produced what are known as VATS keys (Vehicle Anti-Theft System) during the 1990s, which are often erroneously believed to be transponders but actually use a simple resistor, which is visible in the blade of the key. If the electrical resistance of the resistor is wrong, or the key is a normal key without a resistor, the circuit of the car's electrical system will not allow the engine to get started.\n\n\nhttps://mynewlocks.com"}
{"id": "2109411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109411", "title": "Harran Sulci", "text": "Harran Sulci\n\nHarran Sulci is a region of grooved terrain on the surface of Saturn's moon Enceladus. The feature is centered at 26.7° North Latitude, 237.6° West Longitude and is approximately 276 kilometers long. Harran Sulci bounds Diyar Planitia to the north and east. \n\nUsing \"Voyager 2\" images, Kargel and Pozio (1996) characterized Harran Sulci as consisting of sinuous \"mountainous ridges\" 1-1.5 km in height, and lying within relative topographic lows. Kargel and Pozio (1996) suggested that they might be fold belts, similar to North America's Appalachian Mountains.\n\nRecent images by the \"Cassini\" spacecraft show of Harran Sulci at much higher resolution than in the \"Voyager 2\" images. The feature has a convex cross-section with numerous ridges running down the length of the feature. Like Samarkand Sulci, tall scarps facing the feature separate the surrounding cratered terrain to the north, and Diyar Planitia to the south, from Harran Sulci. Near the western end of the feature, two deep fracture were observed running perpendicular to Harran. Similar, but smaller, fractures are seen running perpendicular to Samarkand Sulci, suggesting that a period of extension accompanies the later stages of formation (or occurs after formation) of these ridge belts.\n\nHarran Sulci is named after the city in \"Arabian Nights\" where Khudadad's father ruled.\n"}
{"id": "2109415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109415", "title": "Marcus Musurus", "text": "Marcus Musurus\n\nMarcus Musurus ( \"Markos Mousouros\"; ; c. 1470–1517) was a Greek scholar and philosopher born in Candia, Venetian Crete (modern Heraklion, Crete). \n\nThe son of a rich merchant, Musurus became at an early age a pupil of John Lascaris in Venice. In 1505, Musurus was made professor of Greek language at the University of Padua. Erasmus, who had attended his lectures there, testifies to his knowledge of Latin. However, when the university was closed in 1509 during the War of the League of Cambrai, he returned to Venice where he filled a similar post. \n\nIn 1512 he was made professor of Greek language in Venice: during this time he published through Aldus Manutius, a contemporary printer and publisher, his edition on Plato. This was the first time that the Dialogues were printed in Greek.\n\nIn 1516, Musurus was summoned to Rome by Pope Leo X, where he lectured in the pope's (\"Gymnasium\") and established a Greek printing-press. In recognition of a Greek poem prefixed to the \"editio princeps\" of Plato, Leo appointed him archbishop of Monemvasia (Malvasia) in the Peloponnese, but he died before he left the Italian peninsula.\n\nFrom 1493, Musurus was associated with the famous printer Aldus Manutius and belonged to the Neacademia (Aldine Academy of Hellenists), a society founded by Manutius and other learned men for the promotion of Greek studies. Many of the Aldine classics were published under Musurus' supervision, and he is credited with the first editions of the scholia of Aristophanes (1498), Athenaeus (1514), Hesychius of Alexandria (1514) and Pausanias (1516). Musuros' handwriting reportedly formed the model of Aldus' Greek type. Among his original compositions Musurus wrote a dedicatory epigram for Zacharias Kallierges' edition of the Etymologicum Magnum, in which he praised the genius of the Cretans.\n\nMusurus died in Rome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109417", "title": "Alwin-Broder Albrecht", "text": "Alwin-Broder Albrecht\n\nAlwin-Broder Albrecht (18 September 1903 – 1 May 1945) was a German naval officer who was one of Adolf Hitler's adjutants during World War II.\n\nHe was born in Sankt Peter-Ording in the Province of Schleswig-Holstein. In 1922 he joined the \"Reichsmarine\". On 1 June 1934, he was promoted to \"Kapitänleutnant\". Then on 1 November 1937, he was promoted to the rank of \"Korvettenkapitän\". When Hitler's liaison officer to the navy, Karl-Jesko von Puttkamer was transferred to active service on 19 June 1938, Albrecht took over that position.\n\nHowever, on 30 June 1939, the Commander of the Navy \"Grossadmiral\" Erich Raeder wanted him transferred to Tokyo as a military attaché or kicked out of the navy completely after it was discovered that Albrecht had married a woman \"with a past\" in early 1939. Hitler was against it; he had an argument with Raeder over the matter. On 1 July 1939, Hitler appointed Albrecht a NSKK-\"Oberführer\" and made him one of his adjutants. Hitler went on to meet Albrecht's wife and liked her. Under \"Reichsleiter\" Philipp Bouhler, Albrecht remained on Hitler's staff and worked in the Reich Chancellery in Berlin.\n\nIn 1945, Albrecht spent time in the \"Führerbunker\" serving in his capacity as an adjutant to Hitler. During the Battle in Berlin, he was last seen defending Hitler's Reich Chancellery with a machine gun. He is believed to have committed suicide on 1 May 1945, aged 41. His body was never found.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109419", "title": "Dermot MacDermot", "text": "Dermot MacDermot\n\nSir Dermot MacDermot (1906–1989), self-styled Prince of Coolavin, Chief of the Name, head of the MacDermot clan, and a descendant of the Kings of Moylurg.\n\nMacDermot attended Stonyhurst College, and went on to Trinity College Dublin, where he was elected a Scholar.\n\nSir Dermot MacDermot had served as British Ambassador to Indonesia (1956–59) and Thailand (1961–65). He succeeded his brother as The MacDermot upon the latter's death in 1979. His outstanding achievement towards the Macdermot clan was his definitive account of the family, \"\"MacDermot of Moylurg: The Story of a Connacht Family\"\". It is commonly held to be one of the best - if not the best - books dealing with the origins, history and descent of a Gaelic family. At over five hundred pages it chronicles in depth yet with clarity the affairs of the Kings of Moylurg and their neighbours over the course of six hundred years, and the story of many different MacDermot families from the time the kingdom ceased to exist up to the 20th century. It contains thirty-five family trees concerning MacDermots and their related families, and ten fascinating appendices.\n\nDermot died before seeing the book in print, but it was published shortly after by his sons Niall (who succeeded him as Prince of Coolavin) Hugh and Connor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109426", "title": "Lotus 27", "text": "Lotus 27\n\nThe Lotus 27 was a Formula Junior version of the Lotus 25 Formula One car for the 1963 Formula Junior season. Its body was aluminium monocoque with steel bulkheads. It was originally designed with fibreglass sides which led to flexing problems, leading to them being replaced with aluminium.\n\nThe Team Lotus cars were run by Ron Harris; and Peter Arundell won the 1963 British championship after the initial flexing problems were solved.\n"}
{"id": "2109428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109428", "title": "Arne Harris", "text": "Arne Harris\n\nArnold H. Harris (22 May 1934 – 6 October 2001) was the producer/director of WGN-TV's Chicago Cubs television broadcasts from 1964 until his death.\n\nHarris was born and died in Chicago, Illinois. He joined WGN in 1956 while attending Drake University. After his death, the Cubs placed a flag of honor on the roof of Wrigley Field.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109434", "title": "William Remington", "text": "William Remington\n\nWilliam Walter Remington (1917–1954) was an economist employed in various federal government positions until his career was interrupted by accusations of espionage made by the Soviet spy and defector Elizabeth Bentley. He was convicted of perjury in connection with these charges in 1953, and murdered in prison in 1954.\n\nWilliam Walter Remington was born on October 25, 1917, in New York City and raised in Ridgewood, in Bergen County, New Jersey, by Lillian Maude Sutherland (1888-1969) and Frederick C. Remington (1870–1956). His father worked for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.; his mother was an art teacher in New York. Remington was admitted to Dartmouth College at age 16, graduating Phi Beta Kappa and magna cum laude in 1939, and earned a Master's degree from Columbia University in 1940. Coming from a branch of the wealthy Remington family of Illion, New York, Remington's parents were demanding and he developed a somewhat unconventional and flamboyant personality. From an early age, he was drawn to radical leftist politics, and declared to his friends that he was a Communist when he was 15. In college, he became active with members of the Young Communist League, and later the Communist Party of the United States. In testimony, Remington stated that while he was a Republican when he entered college, he \"moved left quite rapidly\" and became a radical but was never a Communist Party or Young Communist League member at Dartmouth. Whether or not he ever officially joined the party later became a point of contention in his legal battles.\n\nRemington was employed in a number of posts, principally as an economist:\n\nFor his position with the Office of Price Administration, Remington was required to undergo a loyalty-security check, which began in 1941. He admitted having been active in Communist-allied groups such as the American Peace Mobilization, but denied any sympathy with communism and swore under oath that he was not and had never been a member of the Communist Party. His leftist affiliations raised concerns, but the investigation was superficial and his security clearance was approved.\n\nIn March 1942 and continuing for two years, Remington had occasional meetings with Elizabeth Bentley at which he passed her information. This material included data on airplane production and other matters concerning the aircraft industry, as well as some information on an experimental process for manufacturing synthetic rubber. Remington later claimed that he was unaware that Bentley was connected with the Communist Party, that he believed she was a journalist and researcher, and that the information he gave her was not secret. Bentley was a Communist and an espionage agent for the Soviet Union, who in 1945 broke with the Communists and became an informer for the FBI. She then implicated a number of her contacts, including Remington. Bentley's revelations of Soviet espionage activities in the United States received a great deal of press attention. She identified more than 80 Americans—including several employees of government offices—as working for the Soviets, of whom only William Remington was still working in a government position.\n\nActing on Bentley's information, the FBI began secret surveillance of Remington in late 1945. Remington was by this time disillusioned with communism and had broken off his relationships with radical organizations, so the investigation revealed nothing of interest.\nIn 1946, Remington was working with the Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion. From there he transferred in March 1947 to a position with the President's Council of Economic Advisers, where he was paid an annual salary of $10,305. Because the FBI was keeping Bentley's testimony and its investigation of Remington secret, it raised no objection, with the result that Remington remained in fairly high-level government posts.\n\nIn 1947, Remington was interviewed by the FBI and also questioned before a federal grand jury in New York City about the information he had given to Elizabeth Bentley. He testified that no secret information was involved, and the issue seemed to end there. In an apparent attempt to bolster belief in his innocence, Remington became an anti-communist informer from this time and for the following year. He sent the FBI information on over fifty people, only four of whom were connected with his own case. Most of those he named he had never met. He accused them of being Communists, isolationists, Negro nationalists, or \"extreme liberals.\" He also verbally attacked his wife Ann, from whom he was now estranged, and his mother-in-law Elizabeth Moos, both avowed Communists.\n\nAnother loyalty investigation of Remington was opened early in 1948, and in June, he was relieved of his duties pending the findings of that investigation. In July of that year, the \"New York World-Telegram\" published a series of articles about Elizabeth Bentley, and the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations opened hearings to investigate her charges. At these hearings, Bentley made her accusations against Remington public and Remington in turn denied them. The \"Washington Post\" called him \"a boob...who was duped by clever Communist agents.\" At his loyalty review hearings, Remington downplayed his earlier connections with Communist and leftist organizations and claimed that his wife's adherence to Communist doctrine was the reason for the end of their marriage.\n\nWhile testifying before the Senate, Bentley was protected from libel suits. When she repeated her charge that Remington was a Communist on NBC Radio's \"Meet the Press\", he sued her and NBC for libel. At this point, Remington's case acquired considerable notoriety. When Remington's lawyers attempted to subpoena Bentley, she initially could not be found, prompting headlines of \"RED WITNESS \"MISSING\" AT 100-G SLANDER SUIT\" and the like. When she finally reappeared, she was subpoenaed for the libel suit. She refused to testify at Remington's loyalty hearing. The Loyalty Review Board noted that the only serious evidence against Remington was \"the uncorroborated statement of a woman who refuses to submit herself to cross-examination,\" and cleared Remington to return to his government post. The libel suit was settled out of court shortly thereafter, with NBC paying Remington $10,000.\n\nIn 1950, the FBI and the federal grand jury in New York City reopened their investigations of Remington and the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) opened a third. Because of continuing suspicions about him, Remington had been demoted at the Commerce Department, and his once-promising career in the Truman administration was stagnant. Ann Remington, now divorced from him, was subpoenaed to testify before the grand jury. Initially reluctant, she testified that her husband had been a dues-paying member of the Communist Party, and that he had given secret information to Elizabeth Bentley while knowing that Bentley was a Communist. A few days later she recanted, and stated that she would claim marital privilege and refuse to testify against her ex-husband in any trial. The grand jury decided to indict Remington for committing perjury when he denied ever being a member of the Communist Party.\n\nRemington's first trial began in late December 1950. Roy Cohn, later to become famous as Joseph McCarthy's chief counsel and already a noted anti-communist, joined the prosecution's legal team. \"Elizabeth Bentley later supplied a wealth of detail about Remington's involvement with her and the espionage conspiracy. Remington's defense was that he had never handled any classified material, hence could not have given any to Miss Bentley. But she remembered all the facts about the rubber-from-garbage invention. We had searched through the archives and discovered the files on the process. We also found the aircraft schedules, which were set up exactly as she said, and inter office memos and tables of personnel which proved Remington had access to both these items. We also discovered Remington's application for a naval commission in which he specifically pointed out that he was, in his present position with the Commerce Department, entrusted with secret military information involving airplanes, armaments, radar, and the Manhattan Project (the atomic bomb).\" \n\nDuring the trial eleven witnesses claimed they knew Remington was a communist. This included Elizabeth Bentley, Ann Remington, Professor Howard Bridgeman of Tufts University, Kenneth McConnell, a Communist organizer in Knoxville, Rudolph Bertram and Christine Benson, who worked with him at the Tennessee Valley Authority and Paul Crouch, who provided him with copies of the southern edition of the communist newspaper, the Daily Worker.\n\nAnn Remington reversed herself again and testified that her ex-husband had been a Communist Party member and that he had knowingly given secret information to Elizabeth Bentley. Bentley testified, repeating her charge that Remington had given her secret information, saying with regard to the synthetic rubber formula, \"He said to me that...he thought that the Russians would need something very much like this.\" The prosecution also showed that Remington had handled secret documents that were somewhat similar to the aircraft production information that Bentley said she received from Remington.\n\nDuring the trial, the defense attorneys revealed that John Brunini, the foreman of the grand jury that indicted Remington, had a personal and financial relationship with Elizabeth Bentley and had agreed to co-author a book with her.\n\nRemington was convicted after a seven-week trial. Judge Gregory E. Noonan handed down a sentence of five years - the maximum for perjury - noting that Remington's act of perjury had involved disloyalty to his country. Remington's conviction was celebrated by many. A \"Washington Daily News\" editorial said: \"William W. Remington now joins the odiferous list of young Communist punks who wormed their way upward in the Government under the New Deal. He was sentenced to five years in prison, and he should serve every minute of it. In Russia, he would have been shot without trial.\"\nRemington's attorneys appealed the verdict, and the judicial panel hearing the case included Judge Learned Hand, one of America's most eminent jurists. The conviction was overturned on the grounds that Judge Noonan's instructions to the jury were too vague as to exactly what constituted \"membership\" in the Communist Party, and a new trial was ordered. Hand also criticized grand jury foreman John Brunini and Thomas Donegan, the assistant to the Attorney General who directed the grand jury investigation, for Brunini's relationship with Bentley and for \"judicial improprieties\" in their abusive treatment of both Ann and William Remington during questioning.\n\nInstead of retrying Remington under the existing indictment, the government presented a new one charging Remington with five counts of perjury based on his testimony during the first trial. The charge from the first trial, that he perjured himself when denying he had ever been a Communist Party member, was not included.\n\nThe second Remington trial began in January 1953 with Judge Vincent L. Leibell presiding. It lasted only eight days. The jury found Remington guilty of two counts, for lying when he said he had not given secret information to Elizabeth Bentley and that he did not know of the existence of the Young Communist League, which had a chapter at Dartmouth while Remington was a student there. Leibell sentenced Remington to three years in prison.\n\nWhile his attorneys prepared another appeal, Remington began his sentence at Danbury Federal Correctional Institution where he became friends with fellow prisoner, nonviolent action theorist Gene Sharp, before being transferred to Lewisburg. The appeals court upheld the original verdict, and in February 1954, the Supreme Court refused to hear the case.\n\nOne of Remington's fellow inmates at Lewisburg was George McCoy, a violent man with an I.Q. of 61. McCoy was known to have made a number of angry remarks about Remington's communism. On the morning of November 22, 1954, McCoy convinced another inmate, 17-year-old juvenile delinquent Lewis Cagle, Jr., to join him in attacking Remington as he slept. Cagle used a piece of brick in a sock as a weapon, striking Remington four times on the head. Two days later, November 24, 1954, Remington died of his injuries. The prison warden described it to Remington's second wife as \"not a personal attack against Bill...but just the actions of a couple of hoodlums who got all worked up by...the publicity about Communists.\" The FBI stated that robbery was the motive for the crime. His funeral was held in Ridgewood, New Jersey on November 28, 1954.\n\nPress attention focused on whether more should have been done to protect him in prison, and whether his murder was motivated by anti-communism. When Cagle confessed, the FBI instructed him to describe the crime as if he and McCoy had been trying to rob Remington.\nWhen McCoy confessed four days later, he said he hated Remington for being a Communist and denied any robbery motive.\n\nWorried that Cagle and McCoy's confessions might be ruled inadmissible and afraid that a jury would be sympathetic towards men who murdered a Communist, U.S. attorney J. Julius Levy accepted pleas of second degree murder from McCoy and Cagle. They received life sentences.\n\nRemington's biographer Gary May concludes: \"Clearly, Remington was no political innocent duped by the Communists, and his conviction for perjury seems justified. Yet Remington was no pro-Soviet automaton, no slave to Party or ideology, and not even the FBI, at least privately, was willing to classify him as a Russian spy.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109441", "title": "Staré Město (Uherské Hradiště District)", "text": "Staré Město (Uherské Hradiště District)\n\nStaré Město () is a town in the Zlín Region of the Czech Republic near Uherské Hradiště. Its population is approximately 6,500.\n\n\nStaré Město is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "2109448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109448", "title": "Raymond James Morgan Keegan", "text": "Raymond James Morgan Keegan\n\nRaymond James | Morgan Keegan is the name of the former Morgan Keegan & Co. business units acquired by Raymond James Financial on April 2, 2012. The combined firms’ subsidiaries engage primarily in investment and financial planning, investment banking, fixed income products and asset management.\n\nThe combined firms’ Fixed Income group is located in the former Morgan Keegan corporate headquarters in Memphis, Tennessee.\n\nMorgan Keegan was founded in Memphis in 1969 by Allen B. Morgan, Jr., James Keegan, Robert Gooch, Jr., and accountant Joseph C. Weller. Morgan had been with Courts & Co., Keegan was previously an over-the-counter trader at Equitable Securities, and Gooch had been with Kohlmeyer & Co. John Stokes joined shortly thereafter from Merrill Lynch.\n\nAt the end of its first year, the company had 13 employees and $614,000 in capital. In 1970, MK secured a seat on the New York Stock Exchange. Within three years, MK had set up a fixed income division and opened its first branch office. By 1976, MK had established an investment banking division.\n\nIn 1983, the company sold shares to the public through an initial public offering. In 1985, the company stock was listed on the NYSE under the ticker symbol \"MOR\" and corporate revenues exceeded $50 million for the first time. Keegan left the firm in 1985.\n\nIn 1985 construction of the new Morgan Keegan Tower in downtown Memphis was completed. At 21 stories and 403 feet tall (including the spire), it is the second-highest building in Memphis. In a nod to the past, the four giant stone griffins that adorned the Hotel King Cotton formerly on the site are displayed in the atrium of the Tower.\n\nAlso in 1985, William W. \"Bill\" Deupree, Jr., who joined MK in 1972, became president, a position he held until 1996. Deupree also served as a Director of the Securities Industry Association from 1992 to 1995 and on the Regional Advisory Board of the New York Stock Exchange from 1991 to 1995.\n\nIn 1988 bought Jackson, Mississippi-based brokerage Geary & Patterson; in 1989 it bought T.J. Raney & Sons, Arkansas' oldest investment banking firm, George M. Wood & Company in Montgomery, Alabama, and Louisiana investment firm Scharff & Jones.\n\nBy 1991, revenues reached US$100 million and stockholders equity was roughly $50 million. In two more years revenues doubled.\n\nIn 1992 MK purchased Cumberland Securities of Knoxville. In 1993 it acquired Porter, White & Yardley of Birmingham, Alabama, and Capitol Securities Group of Texas. The next year it bought J. Lee Peeler & Co. of North Carolina and Louisville-based Commonwealth Securities Group. In 1995, MK bought Trust Company of Chattanooga and renamed it Morgan Trust Company, and ARM, a firm founded by Kyle Rote, Jr. and employing super agent Jimmy Sexton -- Athletic Resource Management, a Memphis-based sports agency representing players in the National Basketball Association, National Football League and Major League Baseball. In 1997 it purchased Atlanta-based underwriting firm Knox, Wall & Co., and investment manager Weibel, Huffman, Keegan.\n\nDuring the merger frenzy within regional brokerages of the late 1990s and early 2000s, the firm was sold to Regions Financial Corporation for $789 million. Due to his concentration in Morgan Keegan stock at that time of the merger, Morgan remains the largest non-institutional shareholder of Regions, according to Bloomberg. As such, Morgan joined the Regions board of directors and eventually became vice chairman of Regions. He retired from the board at the end of 2007.\n\nWith the merger of Regions complete in 2001, MK folded the former Regions Investment Company into existing operations, bringing the total financial advisor count to roughly 900. In 2002, MK added two more NYSE seats, bringing its total to five. The seats were estimated to be worth $10 million total at the time.\n\nFollowing the Regions and Union Planters Bank merger in 2004, MK added more than 70 new satellite locations in Union Planters Banks. MK bought Albrecht & Associates in 2005, which helps sell oil and gas properties. In 2007, MK absorbed AmSouth Investment Services, as a result of the Regions and AmSouth Bank merger. As the \nAmSouth executives (Chmn. Dowd Ritter) began to hold sway, many MK employees became disenchanted with the direction of the parent organization.\n\nIn the late 2000s, Morgan Keegan began bolstering its investment banking operations. In June 2007, MK bought \nShattuck Hammond Partners. In December 2008, it bought Atlanta-based merger advisory firm Burke Capital and boutique firm Revolution Partners, which specializes in middle-market technology companies. In June 2009, it added strategic acquisition specialists with Spectrum Capital Partners.\n\nIn April 2012 Raymond James Financial purchased Morgan Keegan for $930 million. It had 300 offices in 20 states employing a total of 3,100 people. It was still headquartered in the Morgan Keegan Tower in downtown Memphis and employed 1,050 people in the city.\n\nThe firm's day-to-day operations were run by Allen Morgan, as chairman and CEO, from 1969 until 2003. Morgan remained chairman until his retirement on December 31, 2007.\n\nBill Deupree was president from 1985 until 1996; after a brief stint by Stephen P. Laffey, G. Douglas \"Doug\" Edwards became president title.\n\nOn February 27, 2008, John C. Carson, Jr., was named as the third CEO of Morgan Keegan. Carson had been the head of fixed income, after first managing the MBS desk and then becoming head of fixed income trading. He had joined in the firm in 1994. Upon Carson's elevation, R. Patrick Kruczek became president.\n\nOn April 2, 2012, Morgan Keegan & Co was acquired by Raymond James Financial. The transaction created one of the country’s largest full-service wealth management and investment banking firms not headquartered on Wall Street. Upon the acquisition, Carson became president.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109450", "title": "Sex and the Single Girl", "text": "Sex and the Single Girl\n\nSex and the Single Girl is a 1962 non-fiction book by American writer Helen Gurley Brown, written as an advice book that encouraged women to become financially independent and experience sexual relationships before or without marriage. The book sold two million copies in three weeks, was sold in 35 countries and has made the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"The New York Times\" and \"Time\" bestseller lists.\n\nIn 1960 Brown's husband, David Brown, suggested she write a book that discusses \"how a single girl goes about having an affair\". The book was rejected by several publishing houses until it was accepted by Bernard J. Geis of Bernard Geis Associates.\n\nThe original title was \"Sex for the Single Girl\", but this was changed because \"it sounded like [it] was advocating sex for all single girls.\" Brown had also written a section on contraceptive methods that was omitted from the final publication.\n\nThe book was advertised through a large-scale campaign created by Letty Cottin Pogrebin of Bernard Geis Associates in conjunction with Brown. The campaign involved print ads as well as television, radio and bookstore appearances; however, Brown often was barred from saying \"sex\" during her television appearances. Cottin and Brown also attempted to have the book censored or banned in the United States as a marketing gimmick, but they were unsuccessful. The book also was endorsed on the jacket by Joan Crawford and Gypsy Rose Lee, and the 2003 edition is endorsed on the back cover by \"Sex and the City\"'s Kim Cattrall.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Sex and the Single Girl\", Brown became the editor of \"Cosmopolitan\" magazine in 1965, and went on to publish several other books which include \"Sex and the Office\" (1965), \"Helen Gurley Brown's Single Girl's Cookbook\" (1969), and \"Sex and the New Single Girl\" (1970).\n\nIn the 2003 edition, Brown includes a reintroduction to her book and briefly outlines the static situations and changes that the single woman has faced from the 1960s to 2003.\n\n\nThe reviews that followed the publication of \"Sex and the Single Girl\", \"were either highly favourable...or highly negative\" and often attacked Brown's writing style and credibility. While several of Brown's concepts were \"in common with the second-wave feminist arguments she precedes,\" other second-wavers such as Betty Friedan \"found Brown's message 'obscene and horrible.'\" When questioned regarding the criticism the book has received, Brown replied that:\n\nThis is how it was for me. This is how I played it. It's just a pippy-poo little book and people come back with this diatribe about its great social significance. Well it's just because nobody ever got off his high horse long enough to write to single women in any form they could associate with. If they had, somebody else would be the arbiter for single women at this point instead of me.\n\nJennifer Scanlon, author of \"Bad Girls Go Everywhere: The Life of Helen Gurley Brown\", argues that through \"Sex and the Single Girl\" Brown became \"not only one of the founders of second wave feminism but stands as a key antecedent for the third.\" Scanlon also argues that with \"Sex and the Single Girl\", Brown would \"cross the line between the fictional and the real\", exploring the real single women that had been previously presented in fictional form in such novels as \"Peyton Place\" (1956) and \"The Best of Everything\" (1958).\n\nJulie Berebitsky explores the impact of \"Sex and the Single Girl\" on the pink-collar worker of the 1960s and Brown's blurring of the professional and the personal in a business environment, as she \"directed women to seek professional advancement...to use gender, and to varying degrees, sexuality for their own gain.\" Berebitsky also contrasts \"Sex and the Single Girl\" with \"The Executive Secretary\", a guidebook published in 1959 by Marilyn Burke, secretary to Dale Carnegie and Dorothy Carnegie, that cautions against demonstrations of female sexuality in the workforce.\n\nScanlon suggests that \"Sex and the City\" is \"the most direct descendent of the sexual politics Helen Gurley Brown introduced in \"Sex and the Single Girl\"\" and Jane Gerhard argues that \"\"Sex and the City\" pays direct homage\" to \"Sex and the Single Girl\", as both present the \"connection between women's financial independence and their sexual liberation.\"\n\nAMC's \"Mad Men\" creator Matthew Weiner frequently attributes \"Sex and the Single Girl\" and \"The Feminine Mystique\" as heavily influencing the creation of his characters and scenarios, especially involving the single female office worker.\n\nThe Four Square paperback edition published (in London) in 1964 includes \"£ove $tory\", an unpaginated 32-page supplement by the cartoonist and illustrator John Glashan, between pages 128 and 129.\n\nWarner Bros. paid $200,000 for the rights to the book that was made into a film of the same name (1964), starring Natalie Wood, Tony Curtis, Henry Fonda and Lauren Bacall. The film version follows the main character, Dr. Helen Gurley Brown (Wood), who is based loosely on Brown, through several comedic situations resulting from the publication of her book \"Sex and the Single Girl\".\n\nBetty Abbott, then the first female city council member of Omaha, Nebraska, went to City Hall on December 30, 1975, in a sweater that read, \"Omaha City Council. Six and the Single Girl,\" a reference to the book.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109453", "title": "Spercheios", "text": "Spercheios\n\nThe Spercheios (, \"Sperkheiós\"), also known as the Spercheus from its Latin name, is a river in Phthiotis in central Greece. It is long, and its drainage area is . It was worshipped as a god in the ancient Greek religion and appears in some collections of Greek mythology. In antiquity, its upper valley was known as Ainis. In  997, its valley was the site of the Battle of Spercheios, which ended Bulgarian incursions into the Byzantine Empire.\n\nThe river begins in the Tymfristos mountains on the border with Evrytania and flows to the east through the village Agios Georgios Tymfristou, entering a wide plain. It flows along the towns Makrakomi and Leianokladi, and south of the Phthiotidan capital Lamia. The river flows through an area of former wetlands, that have been reclaimed for agriculture. It empties into the Malian Gulf of the Aegean Sea southeast of Lamia. In antiquity, the mouth of the river was the site of Antikyra, which was famed for its black and white hellebore.\n\nSeveral studies have been conducted regarding the river's hydrological regime. Its silt has slowly filled the Malian Gulf, turning Thermopylae from a narrow pass into a wide plain.\n\nHomer's \"Iliad\" names the river as the father (by Achilles's half-sister Polydora) of Menesthius, one of Achilles's lieutenants. Antoninus Liberalis notes the tradition that Cerambus was punished for claiming that the nymphs of Mount Othrys, the Spercheides, were the daughters of Spercheios by Deino. Antoninus Liberalis also relates the account that Spercheios and Polydora's son was Dryops, king of Oeta, who fathered Dryope.\n"}
{"id": "2109456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109456", "title": "Karl Allmendinger", "text": "Karl Allmendinger\n\nKarl Allmendinger (3 February 1891 – 2 October 1965) was a general in the Wehrmacht of Nazi Germany during World War II. He commanded the 5th Infantry Division, V Army Corps then 17th Army on the Eastern Front. He was a recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves.\n\nAllmendinger was appointed to command the 5th Infantry Division as a Generalmajor on 25 October 1940. His division was committed to the invasion of the Soviet Union in June 1941, and he was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross on 17 July. He was promoted to \"Generalleutnant\" on 1 August 1942, and was awarded the Oak Leaves to his Knight's Cross on 13 December 1942. He was relieved of command of the division on 4 January 1943. In the Army's reserve since 1944, he was arrested by U.S. forces in 1945 but released in 1946.\n\nAllmendinger was the son of (1863 – 1946), a teacher, poet and writer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109457", "title": "Soave (wine)", "text": "Soave (wine)\n\nSoave ( , ) is a dry white Italian wine from the Veneto region in northeast Italy, principally around the city of Verona. Within the Soave region are both a \"Denominazione di Origine Controllata\" (DOC) zone and since 2001 a \"Denominazione di Origine Controllata e Garantita\" (DOCG) designation known as \"Soave Superiore\", with both zones being further sub-divided into a general and \"Classico\" designation for the wines produced in the heartland of the Soave region around the sloping vineyards of Verona.\n\nThroughout the Soave production zone Garganega is the principal grape variety, though Trebbiano di Soave and Chardonnay are permitted in varying percentages. While most Soave is dry, still wine within the DOC zone a sparkling \"spumante\" style is permitted as is the passito \"Recioto\" style, that in 1998 was granted its own DOCG designation for grapes grown in the hilly region.\n\nSoave saw a peak of popularity in United States during the mid-20th-century Italian wine boom that followed the end of World War II. Driven by the marketing efforts of large producers like Bolla, Soave even surpassed Chianti in the 1970s as the largest-selling Italian DOC wine in the US. By the end of the 20th century, Soave's share of US sales were eventually eclipsed by Pinot grigio and an influx of new wines from southern Italy.\n\nThe Soave DOC was created in 1968 with those boundaries revised and expanded periodically over the next few decades.\nAs a point of introduction, it should be said that Soave and Chianti were the first zones in Italy (in 1931) to be recognized by Royal Decree as having the potential for producing fine wines. This document delimited the borders of the production zones which, in the case of Soave, coincide with those fixed under the current production regulations for Soave Classico.\nSituated in the eastern part of the Province of Vicenza, in the foothills of the Lessini Mountains, the Soave zone is a not particularly large wine region which, however, produces very significant quantities of wine, in virtue of the fact that the area under vine is one of the most specialized and densely planted in Europe. In this area, there exists a traditional and indissoluble link between viticulture and terroir; the area of specialized vineyards has remained practically unchanged compared to 100 years ago and indeed there does not seem to be any valid reason why it should increase.\n\nIn 2001, a separate Soave Superiore DOCG was created for the 2002 vintage that included revised boundaries that covered some areas of the original \"classico\" zone and excluded others for reasons that wine expert Oz Clarke described as unclear and \"\"Byzantine\"\". The revised boundaries and additional DOCG requirements that dealt with vine training and other viticultural practices promoted sharp criticism from Soave growers, and beginning as early as 2003 several voluntarily withdrew themselves from the DOC/G and produced wines under IGT designations.\n\nThe Soave production zone is situated in the eastern part of the hills in the province of Verona (north of the \"Serenissima\" highway, between the 18th and 25th kilometres of the Verona-Venezia road). The zone includes part or all of the lands belonging to the municipalities of Soave, Monteforte d'Alpone, San Martino Buon Albergo, Lavagno, Mezzane, Caldiero, Colognola, Illasi, Cazzano, Roncà, Montecchia and San Giovanni Ilarione.\n\nThe climate of the Soave region is influenced by the mists that flow from the Po Valley in the autumn and can bring the viticultural hazards of mold and other grape diseases. The Garganega grape, that is the primary component of Soave, is a late-ripening variety with a thick skin that can withstand the mist better than some of the thinner skin varieties like Trebbiano Toscano.\n\nThe classico zone was first delineated by Veneto authorities in 1927 and originally encompassed of hillside vineyards within the Soave zone. Today, the use of the specification \"Classico\" with the designation \"Soave\" is reserved for the product made from grapes harvested from the hillside vineyards around the municipalities of Soave and Monteforte d'Alpone in the original and oldest classic \"zone\" of Verona.\n\nThe vineyard soils of this region are considerably less fertile than the alluvial soils in the plains. In the western part of the classico zone near the commune of Soave the soils contain a high percentage of limestone which retain the warmth of the afternoon sun and helps produce fuller, more fruit-forward wines. In the eastern vineyards near Monteforte d'Alpone, the soils are made of decomposed volcanic rock that tends to produce what wine expert Jancis Robinson calls \"steelier\" wines.\n\nOnly white wine is produced in the Soave region, and a minimum of 70% must be the Garganega grape. For Soave DOC wine, up to 30% of the blend can come from Trebbiano di Soave, also known as Verdicchio and Nestrano. This grape is distinct from the lower quality Trebbiano Toscano variety of Tuscany (also known as the Ugni blanc grape used in Cognac production). The DOC rules place new emphasis on the quality varieties and exclude Trebbiano Toscano, which had been allowed to constitute up to 15% of the blend. All the grapes used for the DOC wine must be harvested to a yield no greater than 14 tonnes/hectare with the finished wine fermented to a minimum alcohol level of at least 10.5%.\n\nIn the Soave Superiore DOCG, Garganega must also account for a minimum of 70% of the wine, but Pinot bianco, Chardonnay and Trebbiano di Soave are allowed to fill up to 30% of the remaining blend, with Trebbiano Toscano and other local white grape varieties (such as Friulano, Cortese, Riesling Italico, Vespaiolo and Serprina) permitted up to 5% collectively. Grapes are harvested to a more restricted maximum yield of 10 tonnes/ha while the finished DOCG wines must reach a minimum alcohol level of 11.5%.\n\nWhile most Soave Superiore DOCG is produced from vineyards within the classico zone, the boundaries for the DOCG also extend to some of the hillside vineyards that are outside the classico zone. These wines are labeled as Soave Colli Scaligeri Superiore DOCG, a name referencing the hills around Verona that used to belong to the noble Scaligeri family that were Lords of Verona for many years.\n\nAdditionally, there are also new regulations for planting under the DOCG system with new vineyards needing to be trained using Espalier systems with at least 4,000 vines per hectare. For those vines planted before 2002, the Espalier system, Pergola Inclinata and Pergoletta Veronese are allowed. Soave DOCG may be released on to the market only after 1 September of the year following the harvest, and after bottle aging of at least three months.\n\nAs early as 2000 a first mapping of the macro-zones within the Soave Classico zone was carried out, which led to an initial substantial identification of macro-areas whose wines were characterized by similar aromatic and organoleptic qualities. The more detailed research on the vineyards of Soave (2005-2008), carried out by the Consorzio, has been based on the numerous studies already effected, and in particular on that concerning zoning, files were prepared on the most significant wine companies in each of the various homogeneous zones that had been identified, listing the wineries, the labels and the characteristics of the wines.\n\nThe grape requirements for Recioto di Soave DOCG wines are the same as for basic Soave but the grapes are dried using the appassimento process to accumulate more sugars and such need to be fermented to higher levels of alcohols. Reciotos are fermented to a minimum of 14% of alcohol but still retain distinct sweetness due to the high concentrations of sugars that came from the grapes' desiccation on the vine.\n\nSoave Superiore DOCG wines can also receive a \"Riserva\" designation provided the wine is fermented to a minimum alcohol level of 12.5% and is aged a minimum of 24 months (with at least 3 of those months being in the bottle) before it is released on the market.\n\nBy the mid-1990s Soave was producing around 6 million cases annually with more than 80% of that being produced by the region's local co-operative and sold in bulk to importers who release the wine under private labels. A sizable amount of this wine comes from the flat \"pianura\" land outside the hilly classico region in the heart of the Soave zone. Most of the more critically acclaimed Soave comes from the hillside vineyards in the Classico zone though critics have argued that this designation does not mean as much since the DOC/G changes of the early 21st century.\n\nFor most of its history, Soave was produced in a medium-bodied style that was often compared to Chardonnay, except with a distinct bitter almond note. In the 1980s and 1990s, production styles shifted to producing more lighter and crisper styles that were closer to Pinot grigio than to Chardonnay. But at the turn of the 21st century, production trends were shifting towards a Soave that better reflected its own character and that of the Garganega grape.\n\nMaster of Wine Mary Ewing-Mulligan describes some of the Soave being produced today as light-bodied, straw-colored wine that has fresh, fruity notes.\n\nIn 2009, Cantina di Soave co-operative with 2,200 members, generated 48% of total Soave DOC production and 43% of Soave Classico. According to wine critic and author Kerin O'Keefe Cantina di Soave together with seven other co-ops, including the outstanding Cantina di Monteforte, have long been a defining element in the denomination. But over the past decade many growers have begun bottling their own wine, further fuelling a shift towards higher standards.\n\nConfusingly for consumers though, some of the best independent producers, such as Gini, Pieropan and Tessari are not using the Soave Superiore DOCG designation, as they feel that well-made Soave Classico DOC wines have slightly less alcohol and extract than the DOCG demands, but are nonetheless more refined and long-lived than the supposedly superior designation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109459", "title": "Shane Battier", "text": "Shane Battier\n\nShane Courtney Battier (born September 9, 1978) is an American former professional basketball player who played for various teams of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He has also been a member of the U.S. national basketball team.\n\nBattier was born and raised in Birmingham, Michigan, and attended Detroit Country Day School in nearby Beverly Hills, where he won many awards including the 1997 Mr. Basketball award. He went on to play four years of college basketball at Duke, where he captured the 2001 National Championship and swept the major National Player of the Year awards. Battier was selected with the sixth overall pick of the 2001 NBA draft by the Vancouver Grizzlies (who soon became the Memphis Grizzlies). He was traded five years later to the Houston Rockets, and was then traded back to the Memphis Grizzlies during the 2010–2011 NBA season. He signed with the Miami Heat in 2011. His number has been retired by both Detroit Country Day School and Duke University. He has been recognized for his aggressive defense and has \"routinely guarded the league's most dangerous offensive players\". He is the only basketball player to have ever won both the Naismith Prep Player of the Year Award (1997) and the Naismith College Player of the Year (2001). Battier won two NBA championships with the Miami Heat in 2012 and 2013.\n\nBattier was an outlier from his childhood; by the time he entered Country Day as a seventh-grader, he was already , and was a year later. He was also the only child in the school with a black father and a white mother. As Michael Lewis put it in a 2009 article, the young Battier \"was shuttling between a black world that treated him as white and a white world that treated him as black.\" More specifically in the context of basketball, Lewis noted that \"the inner-city kids with whom he played on the Amateur Athletic Union (A.A.U.) circuit treated Battier like a suburban kid with a white game, and the suburban kids he played with during the regular season treated him like a visitor from the planet where they kept the black people.\"\n\nBattier graduated from Detroit Country Day School with a 3.96 grade point average and was named the school's outstanding student in his senior year. He went on to attend Duke, where he played four years under head coach Mike Krzyzewski. While at Duke, Battier was often the best defender on the court. He frequently took charges which prompted the Cameron Crazies to chant, \"Who's your daddy? Battier!\" He led the Duke Blue Devils men's basketball to two Final Fours, in 1999 and 2001, though his team in 1998 squandered a late 17-point lead to eventual national champion Kentucky in the regional finals. The Blue Devils lost to the Connecticut Huskies in the 1999 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament, but came back to win the national championship by defeating the Arizona Wildcats two years later. In 2001, Battier swept the major National Player of the Year awards, and subsequently had his jersey number 31 retired by the Blue Devils. Additionally, Battier was a three-time awardee of the NABC Defensive Player of the Year. Battier (778) and Jason Williams on the 2001 national championship team were one of only two Duke duos to each score over 700 points in a season, the other duo being Jon Scheyer (728) and Kyle Singler (707) in the 2009–10 season. Battier graduated from Duke with a major in religion.\n\nAfter the conclusion of his college career, Battier was named to the ACC 50th Anniversary men's basketball team. Battier was a two-time Academic All-American and Academic All-American of the year in 2001.\n\nHe was second behind Jon Scheyer in the Duke record book for minutes played in a single season as of March 28, 2010, and had 36 double-figure scoring games in a single season (tied for 5th-most in Duke history, with Scheyer, Jason Williams, and J. J. Redick). Battier also held the unofficial record among NCAA Division I men's players for most games won in a career with 131, a record that would fall in 2017 to Gonzaga's Przemek Karnowski.\n\nBattier was selected by the Grizzlies with the sixth pick of the first round of the 2001 NBA draft. At the time, the Grizzlies were in the process of moving from Vancouver to Memphis. Pau Gasol of Spain was selected in the same draft with the number three pick, by the Atlanta Hawks, then traded to the Grizzlies.\n\nBattier was a versatile player with the size to play inside and the range to score from further out (particularly the corner three-pointer). However, he made his living as a hustle player on the defensive end, where he defended three positions (shooting guard, power forward, small forward) with a high degree of skill, netted a good number of blocks and steals, dove for loose balls, and frequently drew offensive fouls from his opponent.\nOn June 28, 2006, Battier was traded by the Grizzlies to the Houston Rockets in exchange for Stromile Swift and the Rockets' number 8 selection Rudy Gay in the 2006 NBA draft.\n\nBattier has often been called \"the ultimate glue guy\" for playing sound, fundamental, team-oriented basketball, making his teammates more effective without flash or padding his own stats, and for making the most of his skills with discipline and hustle rather than raw athleticism. He's also known for his extensive preparation in studying the opposing team and the player he is assigned to guard: \"I try to prepare for my opponent as thoroughly as possible. I want to know every angle on the man I am guarding to give me an edge. I read many, many pages and go over strengths and weaknesses many times before a game. 'Proper preparation prevents poor performance.' That is a motto I like.\" The Rockets made him the team's only player with access to its highly sophisticated statistical data that they compiled on all opposing players; he used this data to become familiar with the tendencies of the players he would guard in each game. In a game between the Rockets and San Antonio Spurs in the 2007–08 season in which he was assigned to guard Manu Ginóbili, because Ginóbili was playing off the bench and his minutes were not in sync with those of typical NBA starters, Battier went to Rockets coach Rick Adelman before the game and asked to be kept out of the starting lineup and substituted in whenever Ginóbili entered the game. Rockets general manager Daryl Morey later said about the incident, \"No one in the NBA does that. No one says put me on the bench so I can guard their best scorer all the time.\"\n\nHe played for the US national team in the 2006 FIBA World Championship, winning a bronze medal.\n\nOn February 17, 2010, in a game against the Milwaukee Bucks, Battier scored 20 points, shooting 6–6 from 3-point territory, to go along with his 10 rebounds. During the latter part of the season, Battier lost his starting spot to the returning Trevor Ariza. Battier, however, made it perfectly clear that starting a game or hearing his name before a game was not important to him. On March 21, 2010 in a game against the New York Knicks, Battier suffered a season-ending knee injury.\n\nOn December 17, Battier recorded his first double-double of the season, finishing with 17 points (including 5 three-pointers) and 10 rebounds to go with 5 assists, 3 blocks, and a steal. On January 24, 2011, Battier scored a season-high 19 points (including 5 three-pointers) in a win over the Minnesota Timberwolves. On February 5, Battier recorded a season-high 13 rebounds in an overtime win over the Utah Jazz. On February 14, Battier went a perfect 7–7 from the field (including 3–3 on three-pointers), finishing with 17 points, in a 121–102 win over the Denver Nuggets.\n\nOn February 24, Battier was traded by the Houston Rockets back to the Memphis Grizzlies, where Battier was originally drafted and played the first years of his career, in exchange for center Hasheem Thabeet, DeMarre Carroll, and a 1st round draft pick. On April 17, with Memphis down by two, Battier made the game-winning three, helping Memphis to its first playoff win in franchise history, following losses in its first 12 playoff games.\n\nBattier signed on as a member of the Heat on December 9, 2011. On March 2, 2012, Battier scored a season-high 18 points, going 6–7 from the three-point line, in a one-point loss to the Utah Jazz. In Game 1 of the Eastern Conference Finals against the Boston Celtics, Battier recorded his first career playoff double-double in a 93–79 win. In the 2012 NBA Finals, Battier scored 58 points in five games, and won his first NBA Championship. His 11.6 points per game exceeded his 4.8 average in the 2011–12 regular season, and he made 15–26 three-point shots. His 57.7 three point shooting percentage in the 2012 NBA Finals is the highest three point shooting percentage ever recorded by a player who made 15 or more three-pointers in an NBA Finals series.\n\nDuring the 2012–13 regular season, Battier and the Heat won 27 consecutive games, establishing the NBA's second-longest winning streak (behind the 33 consecutive games won by the Lakers in the 1971–72 season). A speech given by Battier following the Super Bowl has been credited with sparking the 27-game win streak. The winning streak was snapped on March 27, 2013, when the Heat lost to the Chicago Bulls. The Heat surpassed the 22-game winning streak recorded by the 2007–08 Rockets, for whom Battier also played. Battier became the only player in NBA history to have been a part of two 20-game winning streaks. Battier struggled with his shooting in the playoffs until scoring 18 points (6 of 8 3-point field goals) in an intense Game 7 against the Spurs to win his second championship. While being awarded the Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy, Battier was asked to speak about his performance, and concisely said that \"it's better to be timely than good\".\n\nIn March 2014, Battier announced his intentions to retire following the 2013–14 season. The Heat went on to their fourth straight NBA Finals, Battier's third, but lost to the Spurs in the 2014 NBA Finals. Afterward, Battier retired.\n\nHe worked as a commentator for ESPN for roughly a year before mutually deciding to part ways.\n\nOn February 16, 2017, Battier re-joined the Heat in their front office, as the director of basketball development and analytics.\n\nIn summer 2004, Battier married Heidi Ufer, his high school sweetheart. They had their first son, Zeke Edward Battier, on June 2, 2008. On April 17, 2011, Heidi had their second child, a daughter named Eloise.\n\nBattier is a co-owner of D1 Sports Training in Memphis. In 2010 Battier was chosen as the seventh-smartest athlete in sports by \"Sporting News.\" Battier has said that following United States Senator Carl Levin's 2013 announcement of retirement, the Michigan Democratic Party contacted Battier to gauge his interest in potentially running for the Senate, but he was not interested in running.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109461", "title": "Gwen Boniface", "text": "Gwen Boniface\n\nGwenneth (Gwen) M. Boniface, COM, OOnt (born 5 August 1955) is a Canadian police officer, lawyer, and the former Commissioner of the Ontario Provincial Police (O.P.P.) ending in 2006. She is the first woman to hold this position. She is also the first female President of the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police, and the first Canadian to hold the Vice Chair of the Division of State and Provincial Police of the International Association of Chiefs of Police.\n\nBoniface stepped down as Commissioner in October 2006 to accept an advisory position with Ireland's Garda Síochána Inspectorate (National Police Force).\n\nOn 31 October 2016, her appointment to the Senate of Canada was announced. She will sit as an independent.\n\nBoniface earned a Certificate in Law and Security Administration from Humber College in 1977. She earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from York University in 1982 and a Bachelor of Laws degree at Osgoode Hall Law School in 1988.\n\nShe joined the Ontario Provincial Police (O.P.P.) in 1977 as a Provincial Constable before being called to the bar in 1990. She was Superintendent-Director of the O.P.P. in the First Nations and Contract Policing Branch from 1993 to 1995.\n\nShe served in the Law Commission of Canada from 1997 to 2002. She was the Chief Superintendent Regional Commander for the O.P.P. in Western Ontario from 1996 to 1998. In 1998, she was named Commissioner of the O.P.P.\n\nShe announced her retirement as Commissioner of the O.P.P. in September 2006 to join Ireland's Garda Síochána Inspectorate (National Police Force).\n\nCommissioner Boniface was invested into the Order of Ontario in 2001 for her work with the First Nations communities. She is a Commander of the Order of Merit of the Police Forces, the Order of St. John, and has the Humber College Alumnus of Distinction Award.\n"}
{"id": "2109471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109471", "title": "Pantanal Linhas Aéreas", "text": "Pantanal Linhas Aéreas\n\nPantanal Linhas Aéreas S.A. was a regional airline based in São Paulo, Brazil and incorporated by TAM Airlines in 2013. It served destinations mainly in the southeast region of Brazil from its bases at Congonhas and Guarulhos airports in São Paulo.\n\nThe origins of Pantanal Linhas Aéreas are in Pantanal Taxi Aéreo, an air taxi company created in 1989 in Campo Grande, Mato Grosso do Sul. This company, operating regular charter flights, provided convenient connections of cities in the Central-West Region of Brazil with flights of TAM Airlines, which also provided two of the three Embraer EMB 110 Bandeirante of the fleet. In fact, as TAM Airlines grew and dropped services to smaller cities, Pantanal became a viable solution for connectivity.\n\nIn 1990 the Brazilian Government partially deregulated the market and changed its airline concession policies, allowing the creation of new airlines. At this point Marcos Sampaio Ferreira decided to transform his air taxi company into a regular airline with operations independent from those of TAM Airlines. The leased Bandeirantes were returned to TAM and in 1992 the first Embraer EMB 120 Brasília was received. With new aircraft and a new logo identity, depicting a Jabiru locally known as tuiuiú, regular flights started on April 12, 1993.\nIt became the first Brazilian airline to introduce the ATR 42 aircraft in December 1993. In 1995 it won a government concession for transportation of Petrobras employees and cargo through the Amazon region.\n\nWith growing services, in 1996 Pantanal transferred its maintenance base from Campo Grande to Curitiba-Bacacheri, which at the time became its hub. The same year, in partnership with Total and Interbrasil STAR Pantanal created the shuttle service between Rio de Janeiro-Santos Dumont and Belo Horizonte-Pampulha. The year ended with 18 destinations being served.\n\nOne of the consequences of the fast growth of Pantanal was the change of its logo which, starting in 1997 depicted two arrows and not anymore a Jabiru. The intention was to leave behind the idea of a purely regional carrier. The same year also brought a big blow to the operations of Pantanal: the National Civil Aviation Agency of Brazil closed Curitiba-Bacacheri Airport for regular flights. Pantanal had developed a hub and established its maintenance base at this facility. Having no other choice, Pantanal transferred its base to São Paulo-Congonhas Airport and changed its market focus to the Southeast and South regions of Brazil, eliminating destinations and increasing frequencies among the remaining.\n\nSince TAM Airlines ceased to operate purely regional flights, on December 1998 Pantanal and TAM established feeding and code-share agreements for the second time. Services were concentrated at São Paulo-Congonhas Airport using the airline's precious slots at this airport. Those agreements were suspended in 2001 due to the death of Rolim Amaro, president of TAM and a friend of the president of Pantanal, and to the economic crisis that followed thereafter.\n\nPantanal never regained economic stability and the crisis reached the limit in the beginning of 2009 when Pantanal applied for judicial reorganization to the Commercial Bankruptcy and Reorganization Court in São Paulo. Pantanal continued to provide services despite its financial troubles.\n\nRedemption came once again via TAM Airlines: taking into account their long-lasting partnership and particularly the slots of Pantanal at São Paulo-Congonhas airport, on December 21, 2009 TAM Airlines purchased Pantanal Linhas Aéreas. At that time, TAM decided to maintain Pantanal as a separate airline within the TAM Group integrated into its network. The base of the ATR 42 aircraft was changed to São Paulo-Guarulhos Airport and Pantanal slots at Congonhas were used by \"TAM flights operated by Pantanal.\" In 2010 IATA changed the designator of Pantanal Linhas Aéreas from P8 to GP.\n\nAccording to the National Civil Aviation Agency of Brazil (ANAC) in August 2010 Pantanal had 0.20% of the domestic market share in terms of passengers per kilometre flown. Starting September 2010, Pantanal ceased to appear independently on statistics and its data were integrated into the ones of TAM Group, which then comprised TAM Airlines and Pantanal Linhas Aéreas.\n\nStarting August 1, 2011, all Pantanal flights were operated on behalf of TAM using equipment leased from TAM and finally, on March 26, 2013 Brazilian authorities approved the incorporation of all Pantanal assets by TAM and Pantanal ceased to exist. The incorporation process was finalized on August 23, 2013.\n\nPantanal Linhas Aéreas operated scheduled services to the following destinations:\n\n\nBetween 2009 and 2013 Pantanal was part of TAM Fidelidade, the affinity program of TAM Airlines.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109472", "title": "Trunk (car)", "text": "Trunk (car)\n\nThe trunk (North American English), boot (British English), dickey (Indian English) (also spelled dicky or diggy) or compartment (South-East Asia) of a car is the vehicle's main storage or cargo compartment.\n\nThe trunk or luggage compartment is most often located at the rear of the vehicle. Early designs included an exterior rack mounted on the rear of the vehicle to which it was possible to attach a real luggage trunk. Later designs integrated the storage area into the vehicle's body and evolved to provide a streamlined appearance. The main storage compartment is normally provided at the end of the vehicle opposite to which the engine is located.\n\nSome mid-engined or electric cars have luggage compartments both in the front and in the rear of the vehicle. Examples include the Volkswagen Type 3, Porsche 914, Porsche Boxster, Pontiac Fiero, Toyota MR2, and Tesla Model S (Tesla calls their front trunk a \"frunk\"). The mid-engined Fiat X1/9 also has two storage compartments, although the rear one is small, easily accessible, and practically cuboid in shape.\n\nRear-engined cars (such as the Volkswagen Beetle, Tucker 48, Porsche 356 and the Porsche 911) have the trunk situated in front of the passenger compartment.\n\nSometimes during the design life of the vehicle the lid may be restyled to increase the size or improve the practicality and usefulness of the trunk's shape. Examples of this include the Beetle redesign to the 1970s 'Super Beetle' and the pre-war and 1950s post war Citroën Traction Avant.\n\nThe door or opening of a cargo area may be hinged at the top, side, or bottom.\n\nIf the door is hinged at the bottom it is termed a tailgate, particularly in the United States. They are used on station wagons and pickup trucks, as well as on some sport utility vehicles (SUV). Traditional drop-down station wagon and pickup tailgates can also serve as a mount for a workbench.\n\nTraditional U.S. station wagons included a roll down window retracting into the tailgate to load small items or to allow the tailgate to be opened down on its bottom mounted hinges. Because of the potential for carbon-monoxide fumes, the tailgate window on station wagons should be closed whenever the engine is running.\n\nTwo-way station wagon tailgates may be hinged at the side and the bottom so they can be opened sideways like a regular door, or drop downwards as load platform extenders. They are designed with special handle(s) for opening in the selected direction on special hinges after the window is lowered.\n\nA three-way design that was also used by Ford allows for the tailgate to be opened like a door with the window up.\n\nGeneral Motors developed a clam shell style \"disappearing\" design where the rear window rolls up into the roof and the tailgate slides down and beneath the load floor.\n\nIf the door is hinged at the top it is termed a hatch, and is used on a hatchback. A bottom opening door is now common on sport utility vehicles (SUV).\n\nThe trunk lid (in the U.S. automotive industry sometimes also called decklid or deck lid) is the cover that allows access to the main storage or luggage compartment. Hinges allow the lid to be raised. Devices such as a manually positioned prop rod can keep the panel up in the open position. Counterbalancing torsion or other spring(s) can also be used to help elevate and hold open the trunk lid. On cars with their trunk in the rear, lids sometimes incorporate a center mounted third brake light. A rear lid may also have a decorative air spoiler. On many modern cars, the trunk lids can be unlocked with the car's key fob.\n\n\nThe locking of the trunk may be achieved together with the passenger compartment.\n\nSome cars include a function to remotely open the trunk. This may be achieved through a variety of means:\n\nThe usage of the word \"trunk\" comes from it being the word for a large travelling chest, as such trunks were often attached to the back of the vehicle before the development of integrated storage compartments in the 1930s; while the usage of the word \"boot\" comes from the word for a built-in compartment on a horse-drawn coach (originally used as a seat for the coachman and later for storage). The usage of the word \"dickie\" comes from the British word for a rumble seat, as such seats were often used for luggage before cars had integrated storage.\n\nIn France, from 1900 onwards, the luggage maker Moynat became a market leader in automobile luggage, for which the company developed a number of patented products including the rear-attached limousine trunk with custom fitted suitcases. In 1928 came the side or lateral sliding trunk, a mechanism that foreshadowed the development of integrated trunks in vehicles from the 1930s onwards.\n\nOpen compartments are those found in station wagons and SUVs, while closed compartments have a trunk lid and are typically found in saloon (sedan) or coupé bodies. Closed compartments are separated from the passenger compartment by rigid body elements or seats, and are generally trimmed in simple materials, whereas many station wagons are trimmed with better looking materials as the space is an extension of the passenger compartment. In order to hide the compartment content of station wagons or hatchbacks from thieves or sunlight, a cover may be fitted. On hatchbacks this often has the form of a rigid parcel shelf or a flexible sheet with hooks on the corners, while station wagons and many SUVs have a roller blind in a removable cassette.\n\nTo give the space more flexibility, many cars have foldable rear seats, which can increase the size of the trunk when needed.\n\nThe trunk space can contribute to the active and passive safety of the vehicle. Active safety may be promoted in vehicles that are partially loaded. Here the use of lashing eyes to restrain luggage can prevent or reduce damage to the vehicle and its occupants in severe manoeuvres. In driving while cornering 'in-extremis', the prevention of sudden weight transfer due to poorly loaded luggage can be enough to prevent the vehicle losing grip, and potentially avoiding thereby an accident; active safety.\n\nIf a crash should occur, lashing eyes can reduce the severity of outcome of the accident by keeping the luggage in the loadspace compartment and thereby preventing projectiles from harming correctly restrained passengers in the passenger compartment.\nThese lashing features may be in the form of fixed or foldable loops, or in the case of certain European vehicles combine sliding loops in a rail system to allow optimal positioning of the lashing eyes. At the same time this eases the integration of accessories for loadspace management; dividers, bike carriers, etc. into the interior of the vehicle, a principle that has been applied in cargo vans and air transport for many years.\n\nIn vehicles with open luggage compartments, some are fitted with metal grids or guards to retain loose items in case of collision, or to simply create a bulkhead between the load in the trunk – for example animals – separated from the otherwise unprotected passenger space.\n\nAnother solution for items that have not been restrained is the loadspace barrier net. These may be directly attached to the body structure or, in vehicles with loadspace cover cassettes, as a combined loadspace cover and barrier net. The net confining luggage to the loadspace in case of emergency braking and minor traffic collisions. These nets have the advantage over metal guards that they can be rolled-up when not in use, taking up much less space than a comparable guard. A guard may however be tailored for an even tighter fit to the body interior contours than a roll-away net.\n\nChildren – and sometimes adults who climb in to work on the vehicle – who become trapped in trunks can die of suffocation or heat stroke. Once in the trunk, they may not be able to get out, even if they entered through the interior, because many rear seats only release to the trunk from inside the passenger area. Beginning with the 2002 models, a glow-in-the-dark inside trunk release is required on all vehicles with conventional trunks sold in the United States. Hatchbacks, wagons, vans and SUVs are exempt from this requirement because it is assumed a trapped person can kick out any cargo cover or parcel shelf to gain access to the main interior and passenger doors.\n\nRiding in the trunk is dangerous and illegal. Teenagers in the U.S. may attempt to avoid laws which prohibit new car drivers from driving with passengers by riding in the trunk.\n\nBeyond carrying luggage, the trunk of most passenger vehicles commonly contains various other components often behind the trimmed surfaces of the interior. These components may be accessed by the customer or the service personnel through (in some cases lockable) hatches in the trim, or by removing carpet and support boards etc. Typical components:\n\n\nSome vehicles offer configurable cargo conveniences such as a shelf or board. They often serve various purposes. The multiposition rear shelf on the Chrysler PT Cruiser can be used as a table for a picnic, a second cargo layer, or a security screen. The Citroën C3 has a foldable segmented false floorboard that compartmentalises the cargo area, makes loading easier, and evens out the load floor when the back of the rear seat is folded down.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109475", "title": "Birmingham Contemporary Music Group", "text": "Birmingham Contemporary Music Group\n\nBirmingham Contemporary Music Group (BCMG) is a British chamber ensemble based in Birmingham, England specialising in the performance of new and contemporary music. BCMG performs regularly at the CBSO Centre and Symphony Hall in Birmingham, tours nationally and worldwide and has appeared several times at the Proms in London.\n\nMusicians from the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra formed the ensemble in 1987, with Simon Rattle as its founding patron. Since then BCMG has premiered over 150 new works and won numerous awards, including the 2004 Royal Philharmonic Society Audience Development Award, the 1995 Gramophone Award for Best Orchestral Recording, the 1993 Royal Philharmonic Society Chamber Ensemble Award, the 1993 Prudential Award for Music, and The Arts Ball 2002 Outstanding Achievement Award.\n\nThomas Adès was the first music director of BCMG, from 1998 to 2000. The current artistic director of BCMG is Stephan Meier, who succeeded Stephen Newbould (artistic director 2001-2016). John Woolrich and Oliver Knussen were artists-in-association with BCMG.\n\nPast chairs of BCMG have included Stephen Saltaire, who served in the post from 2000 to 2015. In December 2015, BCMG announced the appointment of Christoph Trestler as its new chair.\n\nThe Sound Investment scheme is a partnership between BCMG, the composers whom it commissions to write new pieces and BCMG's audience. Members of the public are invited to \"invest\" in a new commission by paying a sum of money, currently £150, to purchase Sound Investment Units in the new work and so contribute to the costs involved in commissioning new pieces. For each commissioned piece, a certain number of Units are available, typically 30-50. Sound Investors are kept informed about \"their\" work's progress and are invited to attend rehearsals, as well as the first public performance. They are also able to purchase either a signed copy of the score or receive a signed copy of the score's title page. Composer Colin Matthews, who has had four works commissioned by BCMG, has called the Sound Investors \"a remarkable group...although the only return on their investment is a signed copy of the score.\n\n1990: Simon Holt: \"Lilith\"\n\n1992: Geoffrey Poole: \"The Magnification of the Virgin\"\n\n1992: David Lang: \"My Evil Twin\"\n\n1993: Elena Firsova: \"Distance\"\n\n1993: David Sawer: \"The Memory of Water\"\n\n1994: Detlev Muller-Siemens: \"Phoenix\"\n\n1994: Errollyn Wallen: \"Are you worried...?\"\n\n1994: Colin Matthews: \"...through the glass\"\n\n1995: Philip Cashian: \"Chamber Concerto\"\n\n1995: Aaron Jay Kernis: \"Goblin Market\"\n\n1995: Judith Weir: \"Musicians Wrestle Everywhere\"\n\n1996: Sally Beamish: \"A Book of Seasons\"\n\n1996: Osvaldo Golijov: \"Last Round\"\n\n1996: Howard Skempton: \"Delicate\"\n\n1997: Thomas Adès: \"Concerto Conciso\"\n\n1997: Peter-Paul Nash: \"Symphony No. 2\"\n\n1997: Gerard McBurney: \"Desire\"\n\n1998: Simon Bainbridge: \"Guitar Concerto\"\n\n1998: David Lang: \"The Passing Measures\"\n\n1999: Alastair Greig: \"Play\"\n\n1999: Bent Sørensen: \"Sinful Songs\"\n\n1999: Stuart MacRae: \"Portrait\"\n\n1999: Kenneth Hesketh: \"The Circling Canopy of Night\"\n\n2000: Gerald Barry: \"Wiener Blut\"\n\n2000: Colin Matthews: \"Continuum\"\n\n2000: Thea Musgrave: \"Lamenting with Ariadne\"\n\n2000: John Woolrich: \"Bitter Fruit\"\n\n2001: Poul Ruders: \"ABYSM\"\n\n2001: Edward Rushton: \"Palace\"\n\n2002: Gerald Barry: \"Dead March\"\n\n2002: Marc-André Dalbavie: \"Palimpseste\"\n\n2002: Mark-Anthony Turnage: \"The Torn Fields\"\n\n2002: Simon Holt: \"Boots of Lead\"\n\n2003: Param Vir: \"The Theatre of Magical Beings\"\n\n2004: Philip Cashian: \"Three Pieces\"\n\n2004: Michael Wolters: \"Neighbours for a Night\"\n\n2005: Julian Anderson: \"Book of Hours\"\n\n2005: Huw Watkins: \"Rondo\"\n\n2005: Judith Weir: \"Psyche and Manimekelai\"\n\n2005: Howard Skempton: \"Ben Somewhen\"\n\n2006: Philip Cashian: \"Skein\"\n\n2006: Morgan Hayes: \"Violin Concerto\"\n\n2006: Dave Douglas: \"Blue Latitudes\"\n\n2007: John Woolrich: \"Going a Journey\"\n\n2007: Tansy Davies: \"Falling Angel\"\n\n2007: Elvind Buene: \"Garland (for Matthew Locke)\"\n\n2007: Brett Dean: \"Wolf-Lieder\"\n\n2007: Johannes Maria Staud: \"One Movement and Five Miniatures\"\n\n2007: Nicholas Sackman: \"Concerto in Black\"\n\n2008: Gerald Barry: \"Beethoven\"\n\n2008: Luke Bedford: \"Good Dream She Has\"\n\n2008: Kevin Volans: \"The Partenheimer Project\"\n\n2009: Francesco Antonioni: \"Ballata\"\n\n2009: Helen Grime: \"A Cold Spring\"\n\n2009: Simon Holt: \"Capriccio Spettrale\"\n\n2009: Richard Causton: \"Chamber Symphony\"\n\n2009: Vic Hoyland: \"Hey Presto!... moon - flower - bat\"\n\n2009: David Sawer: \"Rumpelstiltskin\"\n\n2010: Charlie Usher: \"Slow Pan\"\n\n2010: Michael Wolters: \"I see with my eyes closed\"\n\n2011: Jo Kondo: \"Three Songs Tennyson Sung\"\n\n2011: Dominic Muldowney: \"Six Cabaret Songs\"\n\n2011: Silvina Milstein: \"de oro y sombra ...\" \n\n2012: Tansy Davies: \"Nature\"\n\n2012: Alexander Goehr: \"To These Dark Steps / The Fathers are Watching\"\n\n2012: John Woolrich: \"The Mustering Drum\"\n\n2013: Richard Baker: \"The Tyranny of Fun\"\n\n2013: David Sawer: \"Rumpelstiltskin Suite\"\n\n2013: David Sawer: \"The Lighthouse Keepers\"\n\n2014: David Lang: \"Crowd Out\"\n\n2014: Param Vir: \"Raga Fields\"\n\n2015: Ivo Nilsson: \"Rapidità\"\n\n2015: Gerald Barry: \"The Importance of Being Earnest\"\n\n2015: Melinda Maxwell: \"FRACTURES: Monk Unpacked\"\n\n2016: Edmund Finnis: \"Parallel Colour\"\n\n2016: Michael Zev Gordon: \"Seize the Day\"\n\n2016: Benedict Mason: \"Horns Strings and Harmony\"\n\n2016: Richard Baker: \"Hwyl fawr ffrindiau\"\n\n2016: John Woolrich: \"Swansong\"\n\n2016: Luke Bedford: \"In Black Bright Ink\"\n\n2016: Zoë Martlew: \"Broad St. Burlesque\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2109482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109482", "title": "Alfeios", "text": "Alfeios\n\nAlfeiós (, also romanized as Alpheus, Alpheios) is the longest river in the Peloponnese, in Greece. The river is long, flowing through the regional units of Arcadia and Elis. Its source is near the village Dorizas, about halfway between Tripoli and Megalopoli in the highlands of Arcadia. It flows southwest toward Megalopoli, where it has been diverted around open pit lignite mines. At Thoknia it receives its right tributary Elissonas, and continues north towards Karytaina. Below Karytaina the Lousios flows into the Alfeios, and the Alfeios continues northwest, passing north of Andritsaina. Near Tripotamia the rivers Ladon and Erymanthos flow into the Alfeios. The Alfeios then flows west along Olympia and empties into the Ionian Sea south of Pyrgos.\n\nThe ancient highway linking Patras and Kalamata ran along this river for most of the length east of Olympia.\n\nIn Greek mythology, the Peneus and Alpheus were two rivers re-routed by Heracles in his fifth labour in order to clean the filth from the Augean Stables in a single day, a task which had been presumed to be impossible. A poem by Roger Caillois, called \"Le fleuve Alphée\" (the Alpheus River), is mainly about this river.\n\nIn the Aeneid, Virgil describes the \"Alpheus\" as flowing under the sea to resurface at Ortygia on Sicily, or \"so runs the tale\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2109484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109484", "title": "Lotus 30", "text": "Lotus 30\n\nThe Lotus 30 was a racing automobile, Colin Chapman's first attempt at a large displacement sports car racing machine following the success of the smaller Lotus 19 and Lotus 23. In a way as a further development of the final Lotus 19 called Lotus 19B, which had a Ford V8 engine installed in place of Coventry Climax FPF, it was designed by Colin Chapman and Martin Wade, and built in 1964. Lotus 30 was raced in British races such as Guards Trophy, international races such as Nassau Speed Week that allowed FIA Group 4 \"Sports Car\" class of racing machines, and more importantly, in Can Am series. These were before the recognition and creation of Group 5, 6 and 7 categories by FIA in 1966. This explains why Lotus 30 and 40 (the latter was built in 1965) came originally equipped with headlights, tail lights and a windshield wiper.\n\nNotable were its curvaceous fibreglass body work and \"pickle fork\" backbone chassis first seen in the front engine Lotus Elan, in sharp contrast to Lotus 19's space frame design. On the 30, the layout was reversed and placed the engine behind the driver. Lotus engineer Len Terry was asked by Chapman to comment on the draft concept and considered it to be so flawed he refused to have anything to do with it. The Lotus 30 was powered by a 4.7 litre (289 c.i.) Ford V8 engine, the same type as used in the Ford GT40, mated to a 5 speed ZF syncromesh transaxle which was far more reliable than Colotti transaxle in 19B handling the V8 torque. It used 13 inch wheels and solid disc brakes on each wheel. The Lotus 30 was regarded as unsuccessful and / or dangerous but when everything was working and nothing broke, the car was incredibly fast.\n\nThe inherent flaws of the engineering became evident as horse power requirements and tire technology of the period evolved and pushed the original design past its intended limits. The problems were mainly related to the torsional rigidity of the backbone chassis and materials available at the time, all of which resulted in chassis and suspension failures. \nJim Clark laboured long with the car, and managed to prise some promising results with it before it was replaced with the Lotus 40. Equipped with 15in wheels and vented disc brakes as well as a larger engine, the 40 was just as recalcitrant as the 30. The most telling comment about these Lotus race cars was made by the American driver Richie Ginther. When asked what he thought of the new Lotus 40, Ginther, a lugubrious Californian, said, \"Same as the 30 but with ten more mistakes\".\n\nThe effort was not a total loss as this chassis type proved to be perfectly acceptable for the lower powered Lotus Europa, and was used on the Esprit series cars with further development.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109485", "title": "Wyatt Knight", "text": "Wyatt Knight\n\nWyatt Knight (January 20, 1955 – October 25, 2011) was an American actor, best known for his role as Tommy Turner in the \"Porky's\" trilogy.\n\nIn addition to his work in the \"Porky's\" films, Knight made guest appearances on numerous TV shows including \"The Waltons\", \"M*A*S*H\", \"Family Ties\", \"Profiler\", \"Chicago Hope\" and \"\". His final TV appearance came in 2010 on the show \"Crafty\".\n\nAccording to Knight's wife Silvina, in a statement given to entertainment news website \"TheWrap\", he had a bone marrow transplant for advanced non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in 2003. However intense cancer treatment including radiation, left him, in the words of his wife \"in physical and emotional pain.\" On October 26, 2011 Wyatt Knight's body was discovered in a remote area on the island of Maui, Hawaii. Knight was a resident of Los Angeles, California but had recently been staying at a house on Maui.\n\nAccording to the Associated Press, autopsy results indicated Knight died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. In addition to his wife, Knight was survived by two children from a previous marriage.\n\nWyatt Knight was a friend of \"Porky's\" co-stars Dan Monahan, Tony Ganios, Roger Wilson and Cyril O'Reilly.\n"}
{"id": "2109495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109495", "title": "Xaphoon", "text": "Xaphoon\n\nThe xaphoon ( ) is a chromatic keyless single-reed woodwind instrument. It has a closed cylindrical bore and a very slightly flared bell. The xaphoon has a full chromatic range of two octaves, and overblows at the twelfth like the clarinet.\nThe first xaphoon, made out of bamboo in 1972, was a spontaneous effort by Brian Wittman, a Hawaiian saxophonist and multi-instrumentalist, to create an instrument for a young child who liked the sound of the saxophone. After failing to get a satisfactory sound out of an improvised bamboo flute, Wittman cut a mouthpiece opening and attached a tenor sax reed to it. Wittman was impressed by the sound of the simple instrument. After playing it at performances, other musicians were curious and asked him to make more; thus he refined the instrument, patented it, and started to manufacture and sell it.\n\nThe xaphoon's tone sounds like a clarinet or a saxophone, and is suitable for playing music in similar genres such as jazz or klezmer, although it has also been used to play music of other traditions. It uses a standard tenor saxophone reed. The xaphoon has nine tone holes: eight holes in front, and one hole in back for the left thumb, superficially resembling those of a recorder. The xaphoon's fingerings, however, are significantly different from those of either a saxophone or recorder.\n\nThe most common instrument, in C, is 12.5 inches or 32 cm long. Due to having a closed bore instead of an open bore like a recorder, its range is an octave below recorders of comparable length; for example, the soprano recorder's lowest note is C5, while the C xaphoon's is one octave lower at C4. The standard range is two octaves, although experienced players are able to extend the range of the larger sized instruments above that. Due to its short length and large finger-hole size, the pitch of individual notes can be raised and lowered easily, making the xaphoon equally well-suited to play Turkish, Middle Eastern, and other musical scales outside the European tradition. The xaphoon is similar to the chalumeau, a European keyless single-reed instrument that was the ancestor of the clarinet, and has a comparable range. Although it has a complete chromatic scale, the maker considers it a primarily diatonic instrument, capable of playing well in a small number of keys.\n\nThe xaphoon has been made commercially available by Brian Wittman since 1975; Wittman still makes approximately 1500 bamboo instruments per year by hand at his home on the island of Maui, Hawaii, using local bamboo selected from the forests of the eastern end of the island. The xaphoon is available from Maui Xaphoon (Brian Wittman's company) in the keys of C, B♭, D, and G (as well as any other key via special order).\n\nDue to its popularity, it became impossible to fulfill all orders manually using bamboo, and thus in the spring of 2000, a molded ABS version of the xaphoon following Wittman's patented design was introduced. These instruments are made under license by Indiana Plastics in Elkhart, Indiana, and are marketed under the trade name Xaphoon Pocket Sax. Currently, it is available in the key of C, with its lowest tone middle C. The instrument is sturdy, and the reed can be protected by a cap when not played.\n\nIn the spring of 2012, Wittman began a collaboration with Francesc Sans Sastre, a long-established luthier in Sant Jaume de Llierca, Girona, Spain, to produce hand-made wooden xaphoons in strict accordance with the original xaphoon design. These oak and olive wood xaphoons are sold under the name \"Xaphoon de Catalunya\".\n\nWhile the popularity of the xaphoon has led to frequent use of the word \"xaphoon\" to denote any type of small single-reed keyless woodwind instrument, the term remains a registered trade name. Only those instruments produced by Brian Wittman (Maui Xaphoon), Indiana Plastics (Xaphoon Pocket Sax), and Sans Luthier (Xaphoon de Catalunya) are allowed to be called xaphoons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109496", "title": "Zoltán Halmay", "text": "Zoltán Halmay\n\nZoltán Halmay (, 18 June 1881, Nagymagasfalu – 20 May 1956, Budapest) was a Hungarian Olympic swimmer. He competed in four Olympics (1900 – 1908), winning the following medals:\n\n\nHalmay was born in Magasfalu, Kingdom of Hungary (today Vysoká pri Morave, Slovakia) and died in Budapest. Zoltán Halmay, who was a double Olympic champion, was the most successful sportsman in freestyle swimming. 1904 he won the 50 and 100 yards at the St. Louis Games and in 1906 he was a member of the 4×250 m relay team that won the gold medal. He won a further 4 silver medals and a bronze medal at other Olympics. He was Hungarian champion 14 times and won the English, the German and the Austrian Championships as well. He was a world record holder at 100 metres and also at 50 and 220 yards. His versatility is shown by the fact that he was also a remarkable athlete, rower and football player, and he also won a national-level championship in roller-skating over 5000 metres. After his retirement he worked as a trainer, and he was the federal chief trainer of the Hungarian Swimming Association. He was born on 18 June 1881 in Magasfalu, Kingdom of Hungary (present-day Dubrava, Bratislava County, Slovakia). At the ceremony organised at the main square of the village, a monument unifying the memorial plaque and the statue of Halmay was set up in collaboration with the Slovak Olympic Committee and the local government of Vysoká pri Morave (Magasfalu). Zoltán Halmay died on 20 May 1956.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109499", "title": "Cumbres and Toltec Scenic Railroad", "text": "Cumbres and Toltec Scenic Railroad\n\nThe Cumbres & Toltec Scenic Railroad, often abbreviated as the C&TSRR, is a narrow-gauge heritage railroad running for of track between Antonito, Colorado and Chama, New Mexico, United States. The railroad gets its name from two geographical features along the route, the -high Cumbres Pass and the Toltec Gorge. Originally part of the Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad's narrow-gauge network, the line has been jointly owned by the states of Colorado and New Mexico since 1970.\n\nOn February 20, 1880, track crews of the Denver and Rio Grande began to lay the first rails of the San Juan Extension going south out of Alamosa Colorado towards Antonito Colorado arriving in March of the same year. The company chose to use the narrow gauge of three feet between the rails instead of the standard gauge of four feet eight and a half inches. The reason for their choice was that the narrow gauge was cheaper to build and, as a narrow gauge railway can accommodate tighter radius curves, it allowed for laying track where the larger standard gauge simply would not fit. From Antonito, the line continued west to Chama New Mexico arriving there on December 31, 1880. The track had come 64 miles, through two tunnels, over a 10,000-foot mountain pass, and skirted a 600-foot gorge. The line then went on towards Durango Colorado. The purpose of this extension was to tap into the mineral recourses around the Silverton Colorado area.\n\nOnce the Denver and Rio Grande arrived in Chama, other railroad companies began to sprout up to take advantage of the forests around the area. This created a flourishing logging economy to for the small town. There were lumber mills located to the west and south of Chama. These mills provided a steady stream of revenue for the railroad lasting until abandonment in the late 1960s.\n\nAfter World War II, there was an oil boom in the town of Farmington New Mexico. This this boom provided a surge of revenue for the railroad. This revenue consisted of 60 car long pipe trains going west from Antonito. The Gramps Oil Fields of southern Colorado also provided oil for the trains to carry from Chama to Antonito. The lumber mills also provided a steady stream of revenue although this was not as important as the oil. This increase in revenue is the very thing that saved the line from abandonment.\n\nAll of these successes could not have come without some drawbacks. The major issue with the line was Cumbres Pass itself. Cumbres Pass is located at just over 10,000 feet above sea level. The high elevation and various other factors lead to many terrible snow storms. This prompted the railroad to purchase machines called “Rotary Snowplows”. The two that were used on the Cumbres Pass line were Rotary OM and Rotary OY. Both Rotaries are still in existence in Chama New Mexico, but historically they would be dispatched out of Alamosa. Every five or six years, the winter season would see as much as 500 inches of snow fall on Cumbres. These terrible snow storms were a huge financial burden for the railroad. The “Granddaddy of All Snowstorms” hit in the winter of 1951–1952. This was the worst recorded winter on the line and one of the deciding factors when abandonment was considered in the 1960s.\n\nIn September 1968, the Denver and Rio Grande Western filed for abandonment of the narrow gauge line. In April 1969, legislature was signed in New Mexico that provided a way for the state of New Mexico to buy the track between Chama and Antonito. In 1970, Colorado passed similar legislation. The two states took joint ownership of the line and by 1971 the Cumbres and Toltec Scenic Railroad was formed.\n\nThe Cumbres & Toltec Scenic Railroad operates between late May and late October with two trains (one in each direction) departing each morning from Antonito and Chama. Both trains meet at Osier Colorado for lunch. At Osier, lunch is served to all the passengers in a modern dining hall. From there, passengers have the option to continue on to the other side of the railroad, or they can switch trains and go back to their point of origin. Once the west bound train arrives at Cumbres Pass, passengers have the option to board motor coaches to go back to Antonito, or they can save an hour and continue into Chama. The continental divide trail brings hikers through Cumbres Pass as well. The railroad does offer these hikers a ride down the mountain from the pass if they want it. At the end of the day at both ends, motor coaches are again provided for passengers who came from the opposite end. The motor coach ride is about one hour long.\n\nIn addition to the through service, the C&TSRR operates various special excursions during the season such as dinner trains. On certain days during the holiday season, the railroad offers special \"Santa Trains\" from both Chama and Antonito and guests are encouraged to bring gifts and/or food for the less fortunate.\n\nAfter the Cumbres & Toltec Scenic Railroad was formed in 1971, a bi-state agency, the Cumbres & Toltec Scenic Railroad Commission was created. Railroad operations were then contracted to third party rail operators. In 2012, after long discussions with other third parties bidding to take over, the Commission formed its own operating company, Cumbres and Toltec Operating LLC This is when they hired John Bush, a veteran of the railroad, to take the reigns as president on December 13, 2012.\n\nIn 1988, a nonprofit organization called the Friends of the Cumbres & Toltec Scenic Railroad was established to preserve the history of the railroad and help maintain infrastructure and rolling stock. The Friends of the C&TSRR also participate in various education programs and provides the railroad guides, known as docents, who inform passengers about historical aspects of the railroad as well as locations of interest.\n\nIn 2002, the C&TSRR was shut down twice, first in the spring to resolve track bed issues. In the summer, operations were suspended again because of wildfire dangers.\n\nOn June 23, 2010, an unknown fire severely damaged Lobato Trestle, a deck girder bridge located about 4 miles east of Chama. While the bridge was out of order, the C&TSRR operated limited services from the Chama end while trains from Antonito only traveled to Osier and back. After undergoing extensive refurbishment, the bridge was reopened on June 20, 2011.\n\nIn 1973, the Cumbres & Toltec was listed on the National Register of Historic Places, and the boundaries were increased in 2007. In 2012, the railroad was designated a National Historic Landmark, for its engineering, its well-preserved infrastructure and equipment, and the role of the railroad in the development of the region it served.\n\nAll of the steam locomotives operating on the C&TSRR are former Denver & Rio Grande Western locomotives. The railroad owns four classes of steam locomotives. The K-37, K-36, and K-27 engines are all outside frame 2-8-2 \"Mikado\" engines built by Baldwin Locomotive Works. The T-12 No. 168 is a 4-6-0 \"Ten Wheeler\" type inside frame engine also built by Baldwin Locomotive Works. This is the oldest steam locomotive owned by the railroad. Another engine that operates on the railroad is D&RGW No. 315. The 315 is a C-18 class inside frame 2-8-0 \"Consolidation\" type locomotive. It is owned by the Durango Railroad Historical Society, but it is on indefinite loan to the C&TSRR.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> 315 is not owned by the C&TS, but is included in the list due to frequent operation and the indefinite loan.\n\nThe C&TSRR owns 2 class DE B+B-22 diesel locomotives for emergency assistance if the steam engines are down. They are also used for operations outside the normal operating season. They are Numbered 15 and 19. They were built By General Electric in 1943. They both came from the Oahu Railway and Land Company. The number 19 was purchased in 1972 and the number 15 came to the railroad in 2013.\n\nThe railroad owns two rotary snowplows, Rotary OY and Rotary OM. Rotary OM was purchased in the late 1800s by the D&RGW and has served the line ever since. It was last run in the 1970s and has not been run since because of mechanical issues. Rotary OY was built in the 1920s and has served in several places on the line. It was last run in late winter of 2020 to kick off the 50th anniversary of the formation of the Cumbres and Toltec Railroad. There are no current plans to run the rotary again, but it is in good condition and still fully functional.\n\nIn 2016, D&RGW #168 arrived in Antonito, Colorado from Colorado Springs Colorado for restoration to working order. The engine had been on display for a very long time in a public park but was found in surprisingly good condition. Restoration began in March 2017 and was completed in September 2019. The restoration project was headed up by Cumbres and Toltec Special Projects department and lead by Assistant General Manager Efstathios Papas. The project cost $508,000 and took 27 months to complete. The railroad intends to use this engine frequently and put it into normal service as much as possible.\n\nFor passenger services, the Cumbres & Toltec operates a mixture of flat roofed and clerestory cars with interiors corresponding with the railroad's three classes of service: Coach, Deluxe (formerly Tourist class), and Parlor. In 2019, the car shop in Antonito Colorado finished the first in a line of new clerestory cars that will serve as standard passenger cars and new Parlor cars. This is part of an effort to retire the older flat roofed cars due to their age. The C&TSRR also operates observation gondolas as well as special coaches configured to accommodate wheelchairs and house concession areas.\n\nA typical C&TSRR train includes:\n\n\nThe Cumbres & Toltec also owns a varied collection of former D&RGW narrow-gauge freight wagons for both display and for use in nostalgic railtours.\n\nOver the years, the railroad was featured in several documentaries and films. Among these are:\n\n\n\nThe Chama yard is located at milepost 344.12. Here, the railroad stores most of their freight cars and both rotary snowplows, Rotary OY and Rotary OM. On the east side you can also see part of the original roundhouse from the D&RGW. A fire burned down most of the roundhouse but what remains is used as storage for parts. K-37 497 also calls this home. On the far side of the old roundhouse section is the shops where the engines are serviced and prepared for the next day. The shops have two stalls and can have up to two engines inside at a time. On the west side of the yard you will find the original depot from the late 1800s. From here, tickets for the train can be purchased. There is also a gift shop where various items can be purchased. On the south end of the yard, over 100 freight cars can be seen. The yard is open and can be toured by anyone. About 40 of the cars in the yard are operational.\nFrom Chama, the railroad proceeds northeast after crosses the Rio Chama. About 1 mile (1,600 m) later, the railroad begins up the mountain on an average of a 4% grade. The first siding on the line is located at Lobato (MP: 339.99). Here there are the remnants of a stock pen and a water tank made for a movie in the 1970s can be seen. The tank was used later in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. The water tank was knocked over in 2006, due to age and high winds. Lobato Trestle is also located at Lobato. It the second-highest trestle on the line, built in 1883. Due to weight restrictions, only one locomotive at a time is allowed to cross; therefore, all double-headers must separate and rejoin on the other side. The bridge was rebuilt in 2012 after a fire nearly destroyed it.\n\nFrom here to Cumbres, the railroad operates on the north side of Wolf Creek. There are several old stations along the line. The first one it comes to is Dalton (MP: 335.5). There is nothing at Dalton besides the station sign. Next on the journey to the top at Cumbres, the train passes Cresco Siding and water tank (MP 335.5). Just before this is also where the track crosses the state line the first time. This water tank is used when operating smaller engines such as No. 315 and No. 168, and for rotary trains. The route then enters a small canyon past Hamilton's Point. Exiting the canyon, the track makes a turn to the northwest and up the Wolf Creek through Coxo. At Coxo, there is a short siding for maintenance equipment and a station sign/ At a narrow point of the valley, the track makes a horseshoe turn up to Windy Point. Windy Point is an outcrop of volcanic rock where the wind blows so hard, the smoke from the trains often will blow towards the front of the train instead of the rear. From there, the tracks have less than a quarter of a mile to Cumbres Pass, the highest point on the line\n\nAt Cumbres (MP 330.60), elevation 10,015 ft (3,053 m), is the Car Inspector's House, Water Standpipe, remnants of the extensive snow shed, and the Section House, which replaced the original depot after it was demolished in the 1950s. Cumbres is the highest point on the railroad and the highest elevation of any narrow gauge railroad in North America. When the train reaches the pass, the engine must always take on water as it has used about ¾ of its water to this point. After taking on water and a short brake test, the train departs to the east and begins the downhill section. At “Tanglefoot Curve” the track doubles back on itself to lose elevation gradually. Here, the trains going downhill will also do a boiler blowdown. This is where the engine releases steam from the boiler to clean out sediments at the bottom of the boiler. From there the track turns north up the Los Piños Valley.\n\nThe track continues a gentle descent on the average 1.45% grade to the north until it reaches Los Piños tank. This tank is always full and is used for small engines and rotary trains. The track takes a gentle loop off to the west and comes back to the east at the station of Los Piños (MP: 324.8). There is nothing here except a siding and the station sign. The track then turns back north towards Osier Colorado. Just before Osier at Milepost 320, the track crosses Cascade Trestle. This is the highest trestle on the entire line sitting at 137 ft (42m) above the river below. The train then comes to a stop at Osier Colorado (MP: 318.40).\n\nThis section covers the eastern portion of the line from the small cattle and junction town of Antonito to Osier, the midpoint of the line.\n\nAntonito (MP 280.70) is a small company town of the former railroad main line. It is home to the C&TSRR car shop, a water tank, and other relics. Most of the facilities were built by the Cumbres & Toltec, as the original rail yard, wye, and station were not sold to the states of Colorado and New Mexico.\n\nShortly after leaving the station, the train heads straight for , until coming into some hills. Shortly thereafter, the train crosses Ferguson's Trestle (MP 285.87), named for a man who was hung from a locomotive there. The original trestle was featured in the 1988 television movie \"Where the Hell's That Gold?\", starring Willie Nelson and Delta Burke. In filming, a planned explosion ended up getting out of hand and the bridge was burned down. Traffic was halted for a week while the C&TSRR built a temporary bridge; the following winter it rebuilt the trestle to match the original. About three miles (5 km) later, the train makes the first of 11 crossings into New Mexico, and climbs a ledge up to a lava mesa. Lava (291.55) has the old water tank from Antonito, which was moved here in 1971. The track goes around a horseshoe curve that is also used as a reversing loop to turn the rotary snow plow trains from Chama. The Cumbres & Toltec has two rotary snowplows — Rotary OM and Rotary OY.\n\nHeading west, the track rounds Whiplash Curve, a double horseshoe curve. About from Whiplash Curve lie the sidings and wye at Big Horn. Past Big Horn the train loops around the sides of mountains going through horseshoe curves before reaching the first water stop at Sublette.\n\nSublette is an abandoned railroad section camp, consisting of a log bunk house, a section house, a siding, and other buildings. There used to be a water tank at the western end of the siding, but today, in its place, is a standpipe. After filling the tender with water, the engine and the train slowly creep into lush aspen groves.\n\nAfter departing Sublette comes Toltec Siding, which in the 1950s was the meeting place of long oil well pipe trains moving between Chama and Farmington to Alamosa. Shortly afterwards, trains pass through Mud Tunnel, which is unique, because it is lined with wooden pillars, since it is bored through soft volcanic ash. When the beams in the tunnel collapsed, the D&RGW made a \"shoo fly\" (a temporary by-pass) to allow passengers and small cars to be moved around the tunnel to an awaiting train. After passing through this, trains pass around Phantom Curve and through Calico Cut, and then the trains slow down as they enter the longer Rock Tunnel. Trains exit the tunnel, entering the Toltec Gorge, where the track is above the river. The line follows the river the remainder of the distance to Osier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109503", "title": "Gregor Wilhelm Nitzsch", "text": "Gregor Wilhelm Nitzsch\n\nGregor Wilhelm Nitzsch (November 22, 1790 – July 22, 1861) was a German classical scholar known chiefly for his writings on Homeric epic.\n\nBrother of Karl Immanuel Nitzsch, he was born at Wittenberg. In 1827 he was appointed professor of ancient literature at the University of Kiel, but in 1852 was dismissed by the Danish government for his German sympathies. In the same year, he accepted a similar post at Leipzig, which he held until his death.\n\nIn opposition to F. A. Wolf and Karl Lachmann, Nitzsch maintained that the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" were not an aggregate of single, short poems but long and complete ones, composed by the same single author according to a uniform plan with a central dramatic idea. His writings were broad, dealing with every side of the controversy. In the earlier part of his \"Metetemata\" (1830), he took up the question of written or unwritten literature, on which Wolf's entire argument turned, and showed that the art of writing must be anterior to Peisistratos. In the later part of the same series of discussions (1837), and in his chief work (\"Die Sagenpoesie der Griechen\", 1852), he investigated the structure of the Homeric poems, and their relation to the other epics of the Trojan cycle.\n\nNitzsch died at Leipzig.\n\nHis son, Karl Wilhelm Nitzsch (1818–1880), became professor of history at Königsberg in 1862 and at Berlin in 1872.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109512", "title": "Lotus 32", "text": "Lotus 32\n\nThe Lotus 32 was a Formula 2 racing car built by Team Lotus in 1964. It was developed from the Lotus 27 Formula Junior model. Twelve cars were produced, four of which were run by Ron Harris Team Lotus, whose drivers included Jim Clark and Mike Spence. Spence won the 1964 Autocar British Formula 2 Championship while Clark was fourth in the Trophées de France Championship.\n\nThe chassis of the 32 was an aluminium monocoque with steel front and rear bulkhead and centre section to bring it up to weight. Suspension followed the usual Lotus practice; coil spring/damper units were mounted inboard at the front and outboard at the rear. The front wishbones were slightly wider-based while rear geometry had changed and was fully adjustable, unlike the Lotus 27. The Girling brakes were outboard all round.\n\nThe 32 was powered by the new Cosworth SCA 998 cc engine with twin 40DCM2 Weber carburettors, producing at 8700 rpm. The engine was canted over at an angle of 25 degrees in the chassis and was mated to a Hewland Mk IV five-speed gearbox. \n\nAt the end of the 1964 F2 season, one chassis was modified to a Lotus 32B. It was fitted with a 2497 cc Climax FPF engine, 4 speed Hewland HD transaxle, different suspension and wheels and was driven by Jim Clark in the 1965 Tasman Series, which he duly won. The car remained in New Zealand, being sold to Jim Palmer, who drove it to fourth in the following year's Tasman championship.\n\nF2 races won:\nPau Grand Prix - \nEifelrennen \"Germany\" - \nGuards Trophy \"United Kingdom\" - \nAintree 200 - \nSnetterton - \nEnna\"- Sicily\"\n"}
{"id": "2109517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109517", "title": "Erik von Amsberg", "text": "Erik von Amsberg\n\nErik von Amsberg (October 21, 1908 – 1980) was a German Army colonel, serving as Adolf Hitler's aide for the Wehrmacht from July to October 1944, as temporary replacement of Gen. Rudolf Schmundt.\n"}
{"id": "2109521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109521", "title": "Johann Christian Felix Baehr", "text": "Johann Christian Felix Baehr\n\nJohann Christian Felix Baehr (June 13, 1798 – November 29, 1872) was a German philologist.\n\nBorn at Darmstadt, he studied at the Gymnasium and the University of Heidelberg, where he was appointed professor of classical philology in 1823, chief librarian in 1832, and on the retirement of G. F. Creuzer, became director of the philological seminary. He died at Heidelberg. \n\nHis earliest works were editions of Plutarch's \"Alcibiades\" (1822), \"Philopoemen, Flamininus, Pyrrhus\" (1826), the fragments of Ctesias (1824), and Herodotus (1830–1835, 1855–1862). But most important of all were his works on Roman literature and humanistic studies in the Middle Ages: \"Geschichte der römischen Litteratur\" (\"History of Roman Literature\", 1828; 4th edition, 1868–1870), and the supplementary volumes:\n\n"}
{"id": "2109524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109524", "title": "Oath of Citizenship (Canada)", "text": "Oath of Citizenship (Canada)\n\nThe Oath of Citizenship, or Citizenship Oath (in ), is a statement recited and signed by those who apply to become citizens of Canada. Administered at a ceremony presided over by a designated official, the oath is a promise or declaration of fealty to the Canadian monarch and a promise to abide by Canada's laws and uphold the duties of a Canadian citizen; upon signing the oath, citizenship is granted to the applicant.\n\nThe vow's roots lie in the oath of allegiance taken in the United Kingdom, the modern form of which was implemented in 1689 by King William II and III and Queen Mary II and was inherited by and used in Canada prior to 1947. With the enactment of the Citizenship Act that year, the Canadian Oath of Citizenship was established. Proposals for modification of the oath have surfaced from time to time, including removing references to the sovereign, adding loyalty to societal principles, and/or adding specific mention to Canada. However, it is maintained within Canada's legal system \"that the oath to the Queen is in fact an oath to a domestic institution that represents egalitarian governance and the rule of law\". Consequently, it has only been modified once, in 1977.\n\nPrior to 1947, Canadian law continued to refer to Canadian nationals as British subjects, despite the country being since 1931 independent from the United Kingdom. As the country shared the same person as its sovereign with the other countries of the Commonwealth, people immigrating from those states were not required to recite any oath upon immigration to Canada; those coming from a non-Commonwealth country would take the Oath of Allegiance. When India became a republic in 1950, however, the Commonwealth contained countries that did not recognize the monarch shared amongst the Commonwealth realms as their own, though still regarding that individual as Head of the Commonwealth.\n\nWith potential new Commonwealth immigrants who did not already owe allegiance to Canada's shared sovereign, the Parliament of Canada thus enacted the Canadian Citizenship Act 1946, which came into effect on 1 January of the following year. New immigrants were then required to recite the Oath of Allegiance for Purposes of Citizenship, which was an adaptation of the original Oath of Allegiance: \"\"I swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty King George the Sixth, His Heirs and Successors, according to law, and that I will faithfully observe the laws of Canada and fulfil my duties as a Canadian citizen\"\"; Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King was the first person to take this oath. Though new citizens were thereafter required by law to recite the Oath of Citizenship, on 1 April 1949, 359,000 Newfoundlanders became Canadian citizens without taking the oath, when the British crown colony joined Canadian Confederation.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, it was thought that because Canada had a shared monarch the Oath of Citizenship should clarify for new citizens that the fealty they were offering was specifically to the monarch in her capacity as the Canadian head of state, rather than, for example, the head of state of Jamaica or of the United Kingdom. Thus, as part of an amendment to the Citizenship Act in 1977, the words \"Queen of Canada\" were inserted after the Queen's name and the oath was officially named the Canadian Citizenship Oath. This new format maintained the traditional assertion of allegiance to the monarch, but also inserted the name of the country three times in a way consistent with Canada's status as a constitutional monarchy—i.e., in a monarchy the state is personified, not treated as an abstraction or a corporation.\n\nThe Oath of Citizenship is today a legally binding oral and written contract intended to ensure that new Canadian citizens promise to obey the laws and customs of their new country, fulfil their duties as citizens, and recognize the authority of the monarch as the personification of the state and various entities and concepts. Its current form is as follows:\n\nThe equally valid French language version of the oath of citizenship is as follows:\n\nOr, the French affirmation:\n\nThe Oath of Citizenship must be recited by all citizenship applicants in Canada in order to obtain citizenship, save for those under the age of 14 and, at the discretion of the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration, those who are prevented from understanding the significance of taking the oath due to mental disabilities. However, all must sign the oath, with parents signing on behalf of any of their children who are minors. These actions are carried out in the context of a citizenship ceremony, approximately 2,500 of which take place each year, and are functions normally presided over by a citizenship judge. Further, the governor general, a lieutenant governor, territorial commissioner, a member of the Order of Canada, a member of either the Order of Military Merit or the Royal Victorian Order authorized by the Registrar of Canadian Citizenship, or holders of the Victoria Cross may preside at a ceremony if a citizenship judge is unavailable. These events also include the participation of a clerk of the court and, when available, a Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officer. The Canadian flag must be displayed, along with other national symbols, including a portrait of the reigning monarch.\n\nThe RCMP officer opens the ceremony in the name of the Queen, followed by the clerk introducing the applicants for citizenship, stating: \"Your Honour (or other appropriate rank), these people assembled here have qualified for Canadian citizenship and appear before you to take the Oath of Citizenship\" or \"Judge, Mr. Mrs. Ms. [name of citizenship judge or presiding official], in accordance with the provisions of the Citizenship Act, it is my privilege to present to you [number of] applicants for citizenship who have complied with the requirements of the Citizenship Act and are now ready to take the oath of citizenship and become Canadian citizens.\" The judge addresses the crowd with a short speech outlining the duties and responsibilities of being a Canadian citizen, after which the judge instructs the participants to stand, raise their right hand and the judge or presiding officer leads the applicants in the recitation the Oath of Citizenship in both French and English. Those who have taken the oath then sign the oath document and the judge presents each of them with their Certificate of Citizenship. After some closing remarks from the judge, the ceremony is concluded with the singing of the national anthem in English or French or a bilingual version that is provided.\n\nIt has been stated by Sheikh Ahmad Kutty, of the Islamic Institute of Toronto, that Muslims may take the Oath of Citizenship \"as long as you are clear in your mind that you are doing so without contravening the sovereignty of Allah\" and that reciting it should not be viewed as a form of \"shirk\".\n\nSince the last amendment to the vow in 1977, the idea of modifying it yet again has come up periodically. In 1987, the government proposed alterations to the Citizenship Act that included studying to what or whom allegiance should be given in the Oath of Citizenship: to the Crown, the country, or both, and in what order? No changes were made.\n\nThe subject was addressed again in 1994, when the House of Commons Standing Committee on Citizenship and Immigration examined changes to the Citizenship Act. Several witnesses presented divergent views on the oath: some argued that the present form should be retained, while others expressed a desire to see the name of the country given prominence, though not necessarily with the absence of mention of the sovereign. The committee recommended a new citizenship oath: \"I pledge full allegiance to Canada and Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second, Queen of Canada, and swear to faithfully obey the laws and fulfill my duties as a citizen\". Sergio Marchi, then minister of Citizenship and Immigration, proposed a further step of creating a new \"declaration\" of citizenship, and commissioned ten Canadian writers to compose a pledge, with the explicit instruction not to refer to the monarch of Canada; the suggested declaration decided on was: \"I am a citizen of Canada, and I make this commitment: to uphold our laws and freedoms; to respect our people in their diversity; to work for our common well-being; and to safeguard and honour this ancient northern land\". Marchi was told by then Prime Minister Jean Chrétien to abandon the project.\nBy 1996, the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration, then Lucienne Robillard, stated on the suggested alterations to the oath: \"This is a difficult decision to make, because I realise that when you speak about changing the oath, people think you want to change all the monarchy system. We don't want a discussion like that in Canada right now.\" According to an Angus Reid Strategies survey for Citizenship and Immigration Canada, conducted in January 1996, 51% of respondents felt that a new oath of allegiance should remove any reference to the Queen, and 38% felt that allegiance should be pledged to both Canada and its sovereign. Only 5% favoured swearing allegiance only to the monarch; though, at the same time, only 5% of Canadians were aware the Queen was their head of state. Meanwhile, press reaction to the continued proposals for alternate oaths was muted. \"The Globe and Mail\" editorial of 12 December 1998 stated: \"The language is being drained dry, killed by a thousand smiley-faced cuts,\" while the \"Ottawa Citizen\" was more critical on 11 December: \"The new citizenship oath... leaves us cold... It would strengthen the political argument for abolishing the monarchy on the death of Queen Elizabeth; and it would test monarchist support by seeing how many Canadians even notice or holler. We noticed. Consider this a holler.\"\n\nBill C-63, the proposed Citizenship of Canada Act, was put before parliament in 1999; in it was a variant on the present Oath of Citizenship:\n\nIn French, this would be:\n\nMember of Parliament John H. Bryden put forward an amendment that would remove the sovereign from the oath altogether: \"In pledging allegiance to Canada, I take my place among Canadians, a people united by God whose sacred trust is to uphold these five principles: equality of opportunity, freedom of speech, democracy, basic human rights, and the rule of law\". Bryden's proposal was defeated in a vote of 189 to 31, and Bill C-63 itself never received Royal Assent; after approval by the House of Commons and a second reading in the Senate, the bill was under consideration by the Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs when a federal election was called, resulting in the bill's demise on the Order Paper. Subsequent Bills C-16 (2000) and C-18 (2002) also proposed the same changes to the Oath of Citizenship; the former also died on the Order Paper due to the prorogation of parliament, while the latter never made it past second reading in the House of Commons.\n\nThroughout the process, the Monarchist League of Canada, while not against amendment in general, voiced its strongest opposition to the proposals to remove the sovereign. From the group there was also commentary against what it saw as being Americanised and vague terminology, as well as what could be construed as the separation of the monarch from the state (contradicting the inherent notion that the monarch personifies the state) and placed second to it. Like the \"Ottawa Citizen\", the league also questioned the legality of the elimination of the words \"Her Heirs and Successors according to law\"—the commitment new citizens make to the succession to the Canadian Crown. Addressing this, both Bills C-16 and C-18 contained a clause stating: \"removing the words 'Her Heirs and Successors' does not imply that pledging allegiance to the... Crown ends with the death of the current Queen. Section 35 of the Interpretation Act states that, in every enactment, the phrases 'Her Majesty', 'the Queen', 'the King', or 'the Crown' mean the Sovereign of the United Kingdom, Canada and Her other Realms and Territories, and Head of the Commonwealth. Thus, upon her death, the reference to Queen Elizabeth will automatically be read as a reference to the succeeding monarch.\"\n\nIn 2006, the Fraser Institute issued a report, \"Canada's Inadequate Response to Terrorism: The Need for Policy Reform\", suggesting that the Citizenship Act be amended so that the Oath of Citizenship included a provision wherein the new citizen offered loyalty to Canadian values, with violation of this oath punishable by deportation. The intention of the report's recommendations, penned by David Collacott, was to counter the support immigrants received from official multiculturalism to place the devotions and hostilities of their homeland before their duty to Canada. A University of Toronto law professor, however, opined that the rule of law itself was Canadian value, thus rendering the report as moot.\n\nThe Truth and Reconciliation Commission issued in 2015 a series of \"calls to action\", one of which proposed revising the Oath of Citizenship to: \"I swear (or affirm) that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II, Queen of Canada, Her Heirs and Successors, and that I will faithfully observe the laws of Canada, including Treaties with Indigenous Peoples, and fulfill my duties as a Canadian citizen.\"\n\nLawyer Charles Roach, a permanent resident of Canada and executive board member of Citizens for a Canadian Republic (CCR) who refused to swear the Oath of Citizenship, attempted through the courts to have struck down the requirement to pledge allegiance to the monarch to obtain citizenship. With the support of his own law firm and CCR, Roach launched a number of suits against the Crown, beginning in 1994, when he argued to the federal court that being forced to take the oath was a violation of clauses 2(b), 2(d), and 15 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. This attempt was unsuccessful, with the majority of the court ruling that \"[t]he fact that the oath 'personalizes' one particular constitutional provision has no constitutional relevance, since that personalization is derived from the Constitution itself... Even thus personalized, that part of the Constitution relating to the Queen is amendable, and so its amendment may be freely advocated, consistently with the oath of allegiance, either by expression, by peaceful assembly or by association.\" Further appeal of this decision to the Supreme Court was denied.\nIn 2007, Roach, along with three others—Michael McAteer, an Irish immigrant with \"republican heritage\"; Ashok Charles, an Indo-Canadian professional photographer; and Howard Gomberg, a professional actor and performer from the United States—filed a class action lawsuit in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice, claiming that the requirement to take the Oath of Citizenship not only violated the aforementioned sections of the charter, but also clause 2(a), that relating to freedom of conscience. He stated in the media that requiring black people to swear allegiance to the Canadian sovereign to receive citizenship was akin to forcing Jews to swear an oath to a descendant of Adolf Hitler and said in a letter to his fellow litigants: \"If we win this class action, a centuries-old tradition would begin to unravel.\" Though the federal Crown made two attempts to have the case dismissed as frivolous and vexatious, on 20 February 2008, the Ontario Court of Appeal approved the proceeding of the case to the Ontario Superior Court. During the proceedings, the Monarchist League of Canada publicly supported the present oath and opposed Roach's actions and media reaction was also negative, with a number of op-ed pieces denouncing Roach's challenges. Roach's case was dismissed by the Ontario Superior Court in January 2009.\n\nRoach relaunched the case in 2012 and, on 18 June, the Ontario Superior Court permitted the case's continuance, though Roach died on 2 October of that year. In September 2013, Justice Edward Morgan dismissed the case, stating the oath is \"a form of compelled speech\", but a limit \"on the right of expression that is justifiable in a free and democratic society\" and the applicants, who he said showed a misunderstanding of the oath's purpose, would, even after taking the oath, remain \"free to oppose the monarch or advocate for its abolition\". He further ruled that the oath does not contravene either religious or equality rights. The case was taken again to the Ontario Court of Appeal, which, in August 2014, upheld the decision of the Superior Court, Justice Karen Weiler stating \"[t]he purpose of the oath is not to compel expression... but to obtain a commitment to our form of government from those wishing to become Canadian citizens. If there is a violation of the appellants' rights to freedom of expression, it is justified. Following the ruling, the plaintiffs stated they would seek leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada. Throughout the trial, media commentary was mixed: the \"Toronto Star\" called for the oath to be changed so prospective citizens swore allegiance to \"Canada\" as the symbol of the country's constitutional order, whereas \"The Globe and Mail\", \"National Post\", and \"Calgary Herald\" defended the oath as it is. In February 2015, the Supreme Court of Canada refused to hear any further appeal.\n\nIn 2014, Zunera Ishaq, a Toronto resident who wears a niqāb, challenged the regulation that was implemented in 2011 by then Minister of Citizenship and Immigration Jason Kenney requiring those taking the oath to do so without any face covering. She expressed willingness to unveil herself and recite the oath in private, but took offence at the demand she remove her niqāb in a public ceremony. Kenney said veils and masks prevented citizenship ceremony officials from confirming each candidate is speaking the oath, as required by law, and the oath is a \"public declaration that you are joining the Canadian family and it must be taken freely and openly.\" Approximately 100 people are affected annually by the policy, which was supported by the Muslim Canadian Congress, but opposed by the National Council of Canadian Muslims.\n\nThe Federal Court ruled on 11 February 2015 in Ishaq's favour. Judge Keith Boswell opined the regulations require citizenship judges administer the oath \"allowing the greatest possible freedom in the religious solemnization or the solemn affirmation thereof\" and asked how that could be possible if a rule requires candidates to \"violate or renounce a basic tenet of their religion\". Prime Minister Stephen Harper reacted by stating the following day that the Crown-in-Council would appeal the judgement. However, the Federal Court of Appeal upheld the earlier ruling and refused an application for a stay of proceedings, prompting the Conservative Party to, during the ongoing federal election (in which the niqāb matter became a 'wedge' issue) craft a press release indicating the Cabinet would introduce to parliament \"in the days ahead\" legislation to ban niqāb at citizenship ceremonies. Ishaq recited the oath privately before a female citizenship judge and became a Canadian citizen on 9 October 2015, though the government pressed the issue to the supreme court. Following the election won by the Liberal Party, the new Cabinet withdrew the challenge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109529", "title": "The Pillowman", "text": "The Pillowman\n\nThe Pillowman is a 2003 play by Irish playwright Martin McDonagh. It received its first public reading in an early version at the Finborough Theatre, London, in 1995, also a final and completed version of the play was publicly read in 1998 and then finished and released as a book in some places in 1999. Production started in 2000 for the eventual 2003 grand slam performance. It tells the tale of Katurian, a fiction writer living in a police state, who is interrogated about the gruesome content of his short stories and their similarities to a number of bizarre child murders occurring in his town. The play received the 2004 Olivier Award for Best New Play, the 2004-5 New York Drama Critics' Circle Award for Best New Foreign Play, and two Tony Awards for production. It was nominated for the 2004 Evening Standard Award for Best New Play.\n\nKaturian, a writer of short stories that often depict violence against children, has been arrested by two detectives, Ariel and Tupolski, because some of his stories resemble recent child murders. When he hears that his brother Michal has confessed to the murders and implicated Katurian, he resigns himself to being executed but attempts to save his stories from destruction. The play contains both narrations and reenactments of several of Katurian's stories, including the autobiographical \"The Writer and the Writer's Brother\", which tells how Katurian developed his disturbed imagination by hearing the sounds of Michal being tortured by their parents.\n\n\nAriel and Tupolski interrogate Katurian in a police room, adopting a good cop/bad cop routine with Ariel happily playing the bad cop. At first Katurian does not know why he is being questioned, and thinks he is under suspicion of running political messages against the totalitarian dictatorship through his stories. The detectives and Katurian discuss grisly stories involving children. Ariel leaves the room, and soon after Michal is heard screaming in the next room. Ariel returns, his hand covered in blood from apparently torturing Michal, and tells Katurian that Michal has just confessed to killing three children, in association with Katurian. The first two children were murdered according to the patterns of the stories \"The Little Apple Men\" and \"The Tale of the Town on the River.\" Katurian denies the allegations, stating that although his stories are gruesome it is the job of a storyteller to tell a story.\n\nIn his own narrative, Katurian describes being raised by loving parents who encouraged him to write, and for many years he wrote very happy stories. However, at night he began to hear sounds of torture from the next room, and as a result he began to write more disturbing stories. One night, a note is slipped under the door, claiming that Katurian's brother has been tortured nightly for seven years as part of an artistic experiment to get Katurian to become a great writer. Katurian breaks down the door, only to find his parents, who were playing a trick on him, pretending to be torturing a child. However, when Katurian returns years later, he discovers his brother's dead body hidden under the mattress, clutching the manuscript of a beautiful story, better than any of Katurian's, which Katurian burns. Katurian interrupts his narrative to say that this ending was fabricated when he wrote the story: when he broke down the door, he found Michal still alive. Katurian smothered his parents with a pillow that very night in vengeance for his disabled brother and the abuse he suffered.\n\nKaturian and Michal are together in a cell, Katurian just having been tortured. Michal reveals that he had not been tortured, but rather cooperated entirely with Ariel, even screaming when Ariel asked him to. At Michal's request, Katurian tells him the story of \"The Pillowman\", about a man made of pillows who convinces children to kill themselves so they can be spared a horrible future. Michal admits to having killed the children, claiming that Katurian told him to do it through his stories. Michal says that he murdered the third child after hearing Katurian's story \"The Little Jesus\", one of his most violent. Michal tells Katurian that he had read the written version of \"The Writer and the Writer's Brother\", and resented the changes from their lives, wishing that Katurian had written a happy ending for the two brothers. Katurian lulls Michal to sleep by telling him one of his happier stories, \"The Little Green Pig\", then smothers him to save him the pain of being executed. Katurian calls to the detectives, announcing his intention to confess to the crimes on the condition that his stories are preserved.\n\nKaturian tells the others the story of \"The Little Jesus\", which was thought to inspire the third murder. A young girl believes that she is the second coming of Jesus, and blesses unsavory characters, to the dismay of her parents and annoyance of others. When her parents are killed in a horrific accident, she is sent to live with abusive foster parents. Annoyed by her pretensions, the foster parents crucify her and bury her alive so that she might rise again in three days, but she does not.\n\nKaturian writes out his false confession and adds the names of his mother and father to the list of people he has killed. When Katurian sees how eager Ariel is to torture him, he guesses that Ariel was sexually abused by his father. Before Ariel can begin the torture, Tupolski tells them that the third child might still be alive and Ariel leaves to find her. When Ariel returns with the girl, she is not injured but covered with green paint, revealing that Michal had not reenacted the story of \"The Little Jesus\" but \"The Little Green Pig.\" It is apparent to Ariel and Tupolski that Katurian was unaware of this and therefore could not have murdered the children like he confessed, but they decide to execute him anyway for murdering his parents and vow to destroy his stories. Before Ariel can execute him, Katurian tells them about the torture Michal suffered in order for Katurian to become a better writer. Tupolski shows no empathy and shoots Katurian in the head. Left alone with Katurian's stories, Ariel decides not to burn them.\n\n\n\"The Pillowman\" stemmed in part from McDonagh's experience composing fairy tales, with names such as The Chair and the Wolfboy, The Short Fellow and the Strange Frog, and The Violin and the Drunken Angel, early in his writing career. Attempting to rewrite fairy tales he remembered from childhood, he realized that \"there's something dark about them that doesn't quite come through.\"\n\nIn a conversation with Irish drama critic Fintan O'Toole in \"BOMB Magazine\" in 1998, McDonagh retold the Brothers Grimm version of Little Red Riding Hood. The wolf's stomach is filled with rocks and sewn with green wire, leading to the wolf's death. McDonagh's comment – \"I would love to write something as horrific as that if I could\" – indicates a potential inspiration for the story \"The Little Apple Men\" in \"The Pillowman\".\n\nThis play has been described as borrowing from \"Closet Land\" (1991), an independent film written and directed by Indian filmmaker Radha Bharadwaj, which starred Madeleine Stowe and Alan Rickman. Commenting on this, Bob Mielke, Ph.D, Professor of English at Truman State University, said that \"plot elements of \"Closet Land\" persist in another narrative host body, another way in which this text persists and haunts (if you will) our culture.\"\n\nThe original London and Broadway productions of the show featured music composed by Paddy Cunneen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109530", "title": "Narrative logic", "text": "Narrative logic\n\nNarrative logic describes any logical process of narrative analysis used by readers or viewers to understand and draw conclusions from narratives. Narrative logic is a tool through which the audience may infer actions, events, intentions, thoughts, beliefs, values, and feelings of characters and narrators, or otherwise elucidate details not included in the narrative. For example, if a character is in Paris in one scene and in Nice the next, the audience can infer that she traveled, and later references to that travel will not be illogical or unexplainable simply because the trip was not explicitly described. In the same way, if a gun is shown in the drawer of a character's desk, the audience can infer that the gun will be or has been used in some way relevant to the plot. Authors will often play with conventional patterns of narrative logic by attempting to plant \"false leads\" or to hide important clues, leading audiences to improper conclusions or even to doubt their sense of what is really happening.\n\nIt is necessary to build a logical argument based upon the content of a narrative, using its events and rhetoric as evidence to infer other elements necessary to produce a coherent and consistent plot, theme, and argument. This is done to ensure that one's argument does not contradict or alter the narrative itself. Problems and disagreements may arise from this fixity of the narrative because it should also preclude alteration of the artistic statement being conveyed, something that is open to subjective interpretation and may be paradoxical or illogical in itself. Thus, this process is generally imperfect since, as with all narrative analysis and most forms of logic, different applications and interpretations can lead to differing conclusions.\n\nNarrative logic becomes explicit or even labored to create continuity where there is a plot hole or some intentional gap in a narrative, or to explain other unresolved issues within a narrative (i.e. questions such as \"Did this character die or simply disappear?\" or \"Why did two instances under the same circumstances lead to different results?\"). It may also be used for other purposes, such as answering theoretical questions derived from the narrative (i.e. \"What would happen if...?\" or \"Who would win in a battle between...?\"). In a broader sense it is used in devices such as character development, since a character is defined by the interpretations of its actions and the rhetoric used to describe it.\n\nConsider the question of what happens to the character of Elle Driver (Daryl Hannah) in this movie. At the end of the movie a shot is shown of each of the characters on the Bride's kill list with a caption telling the fate of the character. For Elle Driver the caption reads \"???,\" director Quentin Tarantino seemingly leaving it up to the audience to decide. Using narrative logic, we take all relevant information from the narrative and come to a conclusion about Driver's fate. Driver is last depicted thrashing about in a trailer, having been blinded by the Bride. This trailer is also occupied by a deadly black mamba, a fact that is emphasized when it is shown poised to strike as the Bride leaves the trailer. Logically, a thrashing, blind woman and threatened snake occupying a confined space would lead most to conclude that Driver falls prey to the snake and is dead at the end of the film. This conclusion may be further supported by taking into consideration the film's rhetorical and artistic devices. The film is largely a tale of deadly vengeance, and the other targets of the Bride are known to be dead at the film's end, thus the ending is better rounded by assuming Driver to likewise be dead. Also, the Bride's codename is Black Mamba, and this same snake killed another of the Bride's targets, so if one presumes the snake is a rhetorical extension of the Bride's wrath, it would most likely strike Driver down while she is vulnerable.\nHowever, one may also argue that Driver survived. Again, this conclusion can be supported with logic and analysis of the movie's narrative. The strongest evidence may be the very fact that Driver's fate is left open to question. Another point is that, despite blindness, Driver is still a highly trained professional who would not easily succumb to death by a small reptile.\n\nThis example shows how the application of narrative logic may lead to different conclusions using the same evidence. However, these conclusions are similar in that they do not detract from the narrative itself, but only build upon it.\n"}
{"id": "2109541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109541", "title": "Lake Starnberg", "text": "Lake Starnberg\n\nLake Starnberg (, ) — called Lake Würm (German Würmsee) until 1962 — is Germany's fifth largest freshwater lake in terms of area and, due to its great average depth, the second largest in terms of water volume, after Lake Constance. The lake and its surroundings are an unincorporated area within the rural district of Starnberg; the lake itself is the property of the state of Bavaria and is administered by the Bavarian Administration of State-Owned Palaces, Gardens and Lakes.\n\nLocated in southern Bavaria southwest of Munich, Lake Starnberg is a popular recreation area for the city and, since 1976, one of the wetlands of international importance protected by the Ramsar Convention. The small town of Berg is famous as the site where King Ludwig II of Bavaria was found dead in the lake in 1886. Because of its associations with the Wittelsbach royal family, the lake is also known as Fürstensee (Prince's Lake). It is also mentioned in T. S. Eliot's poem \"The Waste Land\".\n\nThe lake, lying in a \"zungenbecken\" or glacial hollow, was created by ice age glaciers from the Alps, and extends from north to south and has a width of 3–5 km (2-3.5 miles) from east to west. It has a single small island, the \"Roseninsel\", and a single outlet, the Würm river (because of this river the lake was called the \"Würmsee\" until 1962). Its major inflow comes from a small river called the Steinbach or Ostersee-Ach, which flows through a chain of small lakes to the south, the Osterseen. The lake's water is of excellent quality due to the introduction in the 1960s of a circular sewerage system which collects wastewater from the settlements around the lake and transports it to a treatment plant below the lake's outlet at Starnberg. Bronze fish-hooks and a dugout dating to the 9th or 8th century BCE have been discovered at the lake, and there are still some professional fishers, most of them continuing a family tradition.\n\nHikers and cyclists can circumnavigate the lake using a path approximately long. Access to the lake shore is not possible everywhere, since it is mostly private property. Passenger ferries and excursion ships have operated on the lake since 1851. Today they are operated by the Bayerische Seenschifffahrt company, using modern diesel-engined ships.\n\nThe earliest surviving mention of the lake, as \"Uuirmseo\", is in an 818 document referring to Holzhausen, now part of Münsing. This name became \"Wirmsee\", already recorded during the reign of the Holy Roman Emperor Louis the Bavarian (1314–1347). This name is derived from the Wirm, now spelt Würm, the only river which flows out of the lake, at Starnberg; in the 19th century, the spellings were changed to Würm and Würmsee.\n\nIn the late 19th century, a railway connection between Munich and Starnberg made the lake an accessible destination for trips from the city. Trains departed from a wing of the Munich Central Station which was known as the 'Starnberg branch station' (\"Starnberger Flügelbahnhof\") and the lake came increasingly to be known as Lake Starnberg; its name was finally officially changed in 1962.\n\nClockwise from the north, the following settlements abut the lake:\nOff the western shore, south of Possenhofen, is the small Roseninsel (Rose Island), the site of a royal villa of Ludwig II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109542", "title": "Maximilian de Angelis", "text": "Maximilian de Angelis\n\nMaximilian de Angelis (2 October 1889 – 6 December 1974) was a general in the Wehrmacht of Nazi Germany during World War II. He was a recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves.\n\nOn 4 April 1946 Angelis was extradited to Yugoslavia and sentenced to 20 years for war crimes. He was then extradited to the Soviet Union and sentenced to two times 25 years. He was released in 1955 and repatriated to Germany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109563", "title": "Bath chair", "text": "Bath chair\n\nA bath chair—or Bath chair—was a rolling chaise or light carriage for one person with a folding hood, which could be open or closed. Used especially by disabled persons, it was mounted on three or four wheels and drawn or pushed by hand. It is so named from its origin in Bath, England, and possibly also after its similarity in appearance to an old-fashioned bathtub.\n\nIf required, the chair could also be mounted on four wheels and drawn by a horse, donkey or small pony with the usual turning arrangement. These animal-drawn versions were the fore-runners of the invalid carriage. James Heath, of Bath, who flourished before the middle of the 18th century, was the inventor of the bath chair.\n\nLater versions were a type of wheelchair which is pushed by an attendant rather than pulled by an animal. In the 19th century they were often seen at spa resorts such as Buxton and Tunbridge Wells. Some versions incorporated a steering device that could be operated by the person in the chair.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109565", "title": "Cormac MacDermott", "text": "Cormac MacDermott\n\nCormac MacDermot was a 13th-century Irish ruler who was King of Moylurg, reigning 1218–44.\n\nA great-great-great grandson of Cormac, Dermot Ruadh MacDermot, was ancestor of the MacDermot Roe sept of the family.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109568", "title": "Hans-Jürgen von Arnim", "text": "Hans-Jürgen von Arnim\n\nHans-Jürgen von Arnim (; 4 April 1889 – 1 September 1962) was a German general in the Wehrmacht of Nazi Germany during World War II who commanded several armies. He was a recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross.\n\nVon Arnim joined the German Army in 1907 and took part in World War I. After the war, he remained in the Reichswehr and then the Wehrmacht. Arnim commanded the 52nd Infantry Division in both the Battles for Poland and France. In October 1940, Arnim was given command of the 17th Panzer Division.\n\nVon Arnim took part in Operation Barbarossa, the invasion of the Soviet Union, and on 1 October 1941, took command of XXXIX Panzer Corps until November 1942.\n\nOn 20 February 1943 he was appointed commander of the 5th Panzer Army under Erwin Rommel in North Africa, whom he replaced as commander of the Army Group Africa on the 10th March 1943. He surrendered to British forces on 12 May 1943 as a consequence of the successful allied Operation Vulcan.\n\nHis surrender to the British was a part of Spike Milligan's \"\" where his name has been misnamed (whether by accident or on purpose as Millgan eventually used to rename a lot of the characters within his Memoirs so that they or their relations would not be embarrassed by the activities) to Von Arnheim where Major Chater-Jack makes the announcement of the German defeat stating that \"It's over! General Von Arnheim (sic) has surrendered and he is very angry.\"\n\nVon Arnim was interned along with 24 other German general officers at Camp Clinton, Mississippi, and was released on 1 July 1947. \n\nHe died in 1962 in Bad Wildungen, West Germany.\n\nUnder Arnim Jewish population of Tunisia was used for forced labour to prepare defences against Allied attacks and the Jewish community was also ruthlessly plundered for gold.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109573", "title": "Ojos Así", "text": "Ojos Así\n\n\"Ojos Así\" (\"\"Eyes Like Yours\"\") is a song by Colombian singer-songwriter Shakira for her fourth studio album \"¿Dónde Están los Ladrones?\" (1998). It was released on July 23, 1999 by Sony Latin as the fifth single from the record. The song was written by Shakira, Pablo Flores, and Javier Garza, while production was handled by Emilio Estefan. Musically, \"Ojos Así\" incorporates elements of middle eastern and world music. An English-language translation titled \"Eyes Like Yours\" was included on Shakira's fifth studio album and first English-language record \"Laundry Service\" (2001).\n\nThe track reached numbers 9 and 22 on the U.S. \"Billboard\" Latin Pop Songs and Latin Songs component charts, respectively. It reached the peak position on the Romanian Singles Chart, and performed moderately in other European territories. The song has additionally been performed during six of the seven concert tours Shakira has held to date.\n\n\"Ojos Así\" contains interludes of Arabic chants. It is based in the Phrygian dominant scale to help lend to the song's Arabian feel. Shakira herself sings in Arabic in the song.\n\n\"Ojos Así\" became extremely popular in Latin American countries and is one of Shakira's biggest hits in Spanish. It was also one of Shakira's smash hits in Romania.\n\nShakira's 2001 English language debut album, \"Laundry Service\", features an English version of the song titled \"Eyes Like Yours\". It contains no differences from \"Ojos Así\" besides each song's respective language (both still feature the Arabic). The rough, yet literal (in most places) translation of \"Ojos Así\" was written by Shakira and Gloria Estefan. \"Eyes Like Yours\" has an unreleased music video that was filmed around the same time as \"Ojos Así\"'s (as Shakira looks the same in both videos). A clip of this unseen video was released on a promotional CD for \"Laundry Service\", only a minute in length, and containing very few shots of Shakira singing in English.\n\nThe music video for \"Ojos Así\" features Shakira performing the song for a crowd. In the background is a giant neon eye, which shoots out sparks and catches fire toward the end of the video. There are also clips of Shakira belly dancing in front of a dark purple background, standing in water. In these clips, there are snakes painted down her arms and red lines painted on her head. The video uses the \"Single Mix\" version of the song (though versions of the video with the album mix also exist). Featured instruments in the video include an Arabic string instrument with a bowl under the head, and a Danelectro Longhorn electric bass guitar. Shakira's long-time musical partner and band manager Tim Mitchell can be seen playing guitar in the video. The video won the International Viewer's Choice Award (North) at the 2000 MTV Video Music Awards, while it was also nominated for the same award in the South category and for a Latin Grammy Award for Best Short Form Music Video.\n\nOn 24 April 2012, an alternate version of the video surfaced online. Uploaded by the video's director, Mark Kohr, on video sharing site Vimeo, this new version was in widescreen, revealing more of the original picture, and also contained several short, but noticeable, different scenes from the original full-screen, 4:3 version.\n\nIn order to promote \"Ojos Así\", Shakira performed the song at Mexican television program \"Al Fin de Semana\". Shakira performed the song during her \"MTV Unplugged\" performance at the Grand Ballroom in New York City, on August 12, 1999. It was completely re-worked for the performance, and included an extended introduction after the main Middle Eastern beginning, and even a dance break with Middle Eastern drums, eliminating Shakira singing in Arabic at the same time. The performance was later included on the \"MTV Unplugged\" release. In November 1999, Shakira performed \"Ojos Así\" on the Miss Colombia 1999 election, closing the event. Shakira included the song on her 2000 Tour Anfibio, being performed as an encore. She also performed \"Ojos Así\" on the first-ever Latin Grammy Awards on September 13, 2000, giving a \"wildly\" choreographed performance against a \"Survivor\"-like backdrop of tiki torches and images of water as she writhed about in a red pantsuit. It was the opening number of her 2002–03 Tour of the Mongoose, with Shakira wearing tight black leather pants, a black belly dancing scarf, and a black bra. The performance of the song was included on the \"Live & off the Record\" live release in 2004.\n\nShortly before the start of her tour, Shakira performed the song during the Rock in Rio festival in Lisbon, Portugal, on 26 May 2006. \"Ojos Así\" was included on her 2006–07 Oral Fixation Tour as an encore. It sampled the Arabic tune \"Enta Omri\" by Egyptian singer Om Kalthoum at the beginning of the performance, when Shakira danced with a veil. Shakira would wear purple pants, a hip scarf, and a silver or rainbow bra. One of the bras worn by Shakira during the tour was auctioned for $3,000 dollars. The performance of the song was also included on the \"Oral Fixation Tour\" release. The song was performed by Shakira during her set on the Plymouth Jazz Festival in Trinidad and Tobago, on 26 April 2008. She also included \"Ojos Así\" on the setlist for her concert at Rock in Rio held at Madrid, Spain, on 4 July. It was also included on her sets on the Rock in Rio Lisboa and Madrid festivals on 21 May and 5 June, and also at the 2010 Glastonbury Festival, in 25 June 2010. During the 2010–11 The Sun Comes Out World Tour, \"Ojos Así\" was performed after a solo by violinist Una Palliser. The tour's version also featured a new dance break, using excerpts from the piece \"Move\" by DJ Said Mrad. The tour's signature prop, a giant head behind the stage, would feature mystical eyes and patterns during the song. Shakira would wear a black skirt, an animal-print skirt over that, a silver belly dancing scarf, and a skin-colored bra.\n\nThe song was included in Shakira's performance at the Super Bowl LIV halftime show.\n\n\n\nShakira won a Latin Grammy Award in the category of Best Female Pop Vocal Performance with \"Ojos Así\" in 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109574", "title": "Lennon Murphy", "text": "Lennon Murphy\n\nLennon Anne Murphy (born March 31, 1982) is an American singer-songwriter and record producer.\n\nMurphy, who is named after musician John Lennon, was born in Ronkonkoma, New York. When she was four years old, Murphy and her mother moved to Hendersonville, Tennessee, where she began playing piano and writing songs at the age of nine. At the age of 15, Lennon started performing shows at various local Nashville establishments. With much critical acclaim from the Nashville music community came interest from several record companies. Lennon ultimately signed to Arista Records at the age of 18.\n\nWithin days of her 18th birthday, Murphy arrived home from school to find her mother dead. The cause of death was determined to be an allergic reaction to prescription medication. Murphy fought for and eventually won custody of her then eight-year-old younger sister, Mariella.\n\nKnown in music by only her first name, she released her debut album, \"\", from Arista records, on September 11, 2001. Her only single from that album was a song called \"Brake of your Car\". Soured by the experience, she left Arista, saying \"I wanted a career as a rock act, and an album I could be proud of, and staying with Arista I really didn't see that happening,\".\n\nIn 2004, Murphy released two albums and a DVD. One album is a strictly acoustic release entitled \"Career Suicide\", released on September 24, 2004. Murphy accompanied herself on piano throughout the record. Most songs were remakes of songs from \"5:30 Saturday Morning\" but the new ones were also well received. On December 27, 2004, she released another album entitled \"I Am\". She also released a DVD entitled \"My Crazy Life\". She released them all independently on John Galt Entertainment, a record label she founded with her manager.\n\nOn September 5, 2006, Murphy kicked off a tour opening for Aerosmith and Mötley Crüe to promote the September 19, 2006 release of her album \"Damaged Goods\". The lead single is the track \"Where Do I Fit In?\", which is a revamp of the track \"My Beautiful\" from her Arista debut.\n\nIn 2007 Lennon started a metal project called \"Devil's Gift\". Their self-titled album was produced by Jason Suecof (Trivium, DevilDriver, Chimaira).\nThe album was released in Europe in 2008 by Universal and in the US on October 6, 2009.\n\nIn 2010 Lennon took her first step as a record producer with work on the debut record for Camryn a 10-year-old pop act from Colorado, whose songs made up the sound track for the film Judy Moody and the Not Bummer Summer. Lennon also produced the debut album for Baccardi recording artist Surrender The Fall.\n\nIn 2014, Lennon helped create the band \"It's War\". Their 1st single \"Heart\" was released in February 2014. The five-track EP, including \"Heart,\" dropped on iTunes, Amazon and Google Play Music on May 26, 2015.\n\nMurphy resides in Orlando, Florida. She has a son (Adrien) and a dog (Mulder).\n\nOn February 12, 2008, Yoko Ono filed a complaint against Murphy's use of her own first name. Murphy reported on her own MySpace page that she is being sued by Ono to cease use of the \"Lennon\" name. The news turned up because Julian Lennon picked up a letter from Murphy and published it. Murphy wrote on Feb. 8: \"Yesterday I received notice that Yoko Ono had filed a lawsuit against me, asking for a cancellation of the trademark that I own for the name 'Lennon.' This could very well mean the career that I have worked so hard at, the one you all have believed in, may come to an end. I wanted to address the situation to all my fans because without you I am nothing and it's not fair to everyone who has believed in my music not to be properly informed of this pure bulls***.\" Murphy says in her letter that in 2003, her Arista product manager was Justin Shukat, the son of Ono's longtime attorney Peter Shukat.\n\nMurphy says Justin went to his father and Ono \"to make her aware of the use, evidently giving her blessing as Arista proceeded forward with the album release and at the same time filing for the trademark. Its [sic] takes time for all of the legal work to go through, but finally in 2003 I was granted by the United States Patent & Trademark Office the ownership in the name Lennon for musical use.\"\n\n\"Eight long, hard years pass and no one says a word. Just two days before the statute of limitations was up this very same lawyer we went to in 2000 filed their complaint. It accuses me of falsely representing myself and causing confusion in the market place that has damaged ... the John Lennon name.\"\n\nAccording to Yoko Ono, Lennon Murphy sought Ono's permission to do her performances under her name. Ono did not object to her request. Subsequently, without Ono's knowledge, Murphy filed an application in the United States Patent & Trademark Office requesting the exclusive right to utilize the name \"Lennon\" for musical performances. Ono's attorneys asked Murphy's attorneys and manager to withdraw her registration of exclusivity to the name \"Lennon\" for the trademark. Ono also offered to cover all costs incurred in filing for the trademark, but Murphy went ahead to register.\n\nOno did not sue Murphy, but sought to stop her from getting the exclusive right to the name Lennon for performance purposes. Ono's attorneys notified the Trademark office that Ono did not believe it was fair that Murphy be granted the exclusive right to the \"Lennon\" trademark in relation to musical and entertainment services.\n\nOn September 23, 2008, after months of legal battle, Yoko Ono lost to Lennon Murphy after the United States Trademark Board dismissed Ono's petition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109579", "title": "Signs of Chaos: The Best of Testament", "text": "Signs of Chaos: The Best of Testament\n\nSigns of Chaos: The Best of Testament is a compilation album by Testament, released in 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109581", "title": "Pena Transportes Aéreos", "text": "Pena Transportes Aéreos\n\nPENTA – Pena Transportes Aéreos S/A was a Brazilian airline founded in 1995. It operated domestic services in the Amazon area and to neighbouring French Guiana. In 2005 it ceased activities.\n\nThe airline had its origins on a local air taxi company called Pena Táxi Aéreo founded in 1989. In 1995, the owner of the air taxi company founded a sister company: PENTA Pena Transportes Aéreos, authorized to operate regular scheduled regional flights on the trunk route Manaus-Eduardo Gomes / Santarém / Belém-Val de Cães.\n\nOperations grew steadily with addition of new equipment. In 1998 PENTA was flying to 34 cities and included an international route linking Belém-Val de Cães and Cayenne via Macapá. That year PENTA carried 235,000 passengers.\n\nIn 1999 however, PENTA suffered a hard blow during the currency exchange devaluation crisis. Leasing and insurance costs more than doubled and the airline was forced to return the Dash-8-300 and an Embraer EMB120 Brasília. A second blow came at the end of 2000, when the Brazilian Civil Aviation Agency temporarily suspended the operational license of PENTA due to alleged maintenance problems. In the beginning of 2001 PENTA resumed its services but continuous economic difficulties lead PENTA to cease passenger operations in December 2004. The fleet of Cessna 208B Caravan was transferred back to the sister air taxi company. PENTA still operated cargo and mail flights with its remaining Embraer EMB 110 Bandeirante for some weeks but eventually ceased all operations by the end of January 2005.\n\nIn 1998 PENTA was operating to 34 cities in the states of Amapá, Amazonas, Ceará, Maranhão, Mato Grosso, Pará, Roraima, and Tocantins, and to Cayenne in French Guiana.\n\nPenta did not have an airline affinity program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109592", "title": "Mark Blount", "text": "Mark Blount\n\nMark D. Blount ( ; born November 30, 1975) is an American retired professional basketball center with four teams in the National Basketball Association between 2000 and 2007.\n\nBlount spent his freshman year of high school in Summerville, South Carolina, playing for Summerville High School. He then transferred to Oak Hill Academy. He then went to Dobbs Ferry High School for his senior year and was named Mr. Basketball for Westchester County. He played his collegiate basketball at the University of Pittsburgh before being drafted 54th overall in the 1997 NBA Draft by the Seattle SuperSonics, and spent three seasons in the minor American leagues.\n\nHe was first signed by the Boston Celtics as a free agent on August 1, 2000 and led the team with 76 blocks that season, the most by a Celtics rookie since Kevin McHale in 1980–81.\n\nDuring the 2003–04 NBA season, Blount put up 10.3 points, 7.2 rebounds, and 1.29 blocks per game in 29.3 minutes per game. He had a 28-point, 21-rebound game vs. the Orlando Magic on March 1, 2004. Following the season, Blount signed a six-year, $41 million contract with the Celtics. \n\nWhen his career ended in 2010, Blount purchased investment properties in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida as well as opening Auntie Anne's franchises in the area. As of 2018, he lived in Fort Lauderdale, Florida and continued to invest in real estate. He is the author of the book \"My First Triple Double.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109596", "title": "Isbanir Fossa", "text": "Isbanir Fossa\n\nIsbanir Fossa is a north-south trending scarp on Saturn's moon Enceladus. Isbanir Fossa was first seen in \"Voyager 2\" images, though a small section was see at much higher resolution by \"Cassini\". It is centred at 12.6° North Latitude, 354.0° West Longitude and is approximately 132 kilometres long. Based on photoclinometric analysis of \"Voyager 2\" images (using topographic shading in an image to determine slope), like the one at right, Isbanir Fossa was determined to be a 300-metre tall, west-dipping scarp (Kargel and Pozio 1996). Two sets of troughs can be seen running perpendicular to Isbanir Fossa, like Daryabar Fossa. These troughs appear to be right-laterally offset 15–20 km east and west of Isbanir Fossa, suggesting that the scarp may be a strike-slip fault or even a transform fault with troughs like Daryabar Fossa representing spreading centres (Rothery 1999).\n\nIsbanir Fossa is named after the home of Fakir Taj from \"Arabian Nights\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2109602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109602", "title": "József Szabó de Szentmiklós", "text": "József Szabó de Szentmiklós\n\nJózsef Szabó de Szentmiklós (March 14, 1822 – April 12, 1894), Hungarian geologist, was born at Kalocsa.\n\nHis first contribution to science was an essay on metallurgy, in which subject he had received special training. Afterwards he settled at Budapest and investigated the geology of the district, the results of which were published in a geological map (1858). In 1859 he joined the staff of the Austrian Geological Survey as a volunteer member, and paid attention to the economic as well as to the purely scientific aspects of the work. He also arranged for surveys having special reference to agricultural geology to be undertaken by the Hungarian Geological Institute. In 1862 he became professor of geology and mineralogy in the University of Budapest.\n\nIn later years he devoted himself largely to petrology, and published memoirs on the trachytes of Hungary and Transylvania; on a new method of determining the species of feldspars in rocks, depending on fusibility and flame-coloration; on the geology and petrology of the district of Schemnitz; and on Santorin Island. He died at Budapest on April 12, 1894.\n\nHe was author of \"Geologie mit besonderer Rüchsicht auf die Petrographie, den Vulkanismus u. die Hydrographie\" (1883).\n"}
{"id": "2109603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109603", "title": "René Auberjonois (painter)", "text": "René Auberjonois (painter)\n\nRené Victor Auberjonois (18 August 1872 – 11 October 1957) was a Swiss post-impressionist painter and one of the leading Swiss artists of the 20th century.\n\nBorn to wealthy parents, Auberjonois lived a \"jeunesse dorée\", studying the classics, starting a banking apprenticeship and serving as a lieutenant of cavalry in the Swiss Army. After dabbling in caricature and music during a first trip to England, he decided to become a painter and enrolled in the Kensington School of Art. In 1896, he moved to Paris to study with Luc-Olivier Merson and at the École des Beaux-Arts. His budding French career was noted in Switzerland, and after the turn of the century, he made the acquaintance of fellow painter Ferdinand Hodler, conductor Ernest Ansermet and writer Charles Ferdinand Ramuz. Auberjonois would later create numerous book illustrations and stage designs for Ramuz and for other artists, including for Igor Stravinsky's \"L'histoire du soldat\".\n\nIn 1908, he moved to Jouxtens-Mézery in Switzerland and married Augusta Grenier, whom he then divorced in 1919. They had two sons – Maurice (b. 1909) and Fernand (1910–2004). Fernand would become a renowned journalist in the U.S. and his son René an actor. The support of a patron, the collector Hans Graber, helped Auberjonois during the 1910s, while in the 1920s he began to acquire a certain public reputation through expositions and prominent commissions. A second marriage in 1922 with Marguerite Hélène Buvelot fell apart in 1929, as Auberjonois recognised his inability to reconcile his work with a family life.\n\nAfter the death of his mother and the sale of his family house in 1929, Auberjonois had a small house built in Pully next to that of Ramuz, which he occupied in 1933–34 until quarrels with Ramuz caused him to move out. In 1935, he accepted a commission to paint murals for the abbey of Dézaley despite constant doubts about his own skills – he did not risk painting directly on the wall, as this required particular speed and precision. The \"Belle du Dézaley\" mural was very poorly received, causing Auberjonois to become a virtual recluse in his Lausanne studio throughout the 1930s, interrupted only by a brief liaison with his model Simone Hauert.\n\nDespite health problems and Auberjonois' own persistent dissatisfaction with his work, the 1940s were his most productive years, and public recognition of his œuvre increased. Dispirited by his friend Ramuz' death in 1947 and preoccupied with his age and poor health, he afterwards retreated more and more from the art scene. Yet he lived to see his work gain international recognition at the first \"Documenta\" in Kassel (1955), two years before his death.\n\nAfter beginning his career in France as a Realist, Auberjonois began to employ Post-Impressionist techniques after 1903. His subject matter was mostly that of his native Vaud, such as natural landscapes, bathing women or rustic still lifes. In the early 1930s, his paintings became progressively simpler in an Expressionist style close to that of Modigliani. The personal crisis caused by the polemic over his murals is reflected in the use of fewer and darker colours after 1936. Afterwards, Auberjonois realised some of his most significant works as a colourist inspired by Delacroix and then Rembrandt, including \"Hommage à l'Olympia\" (1943), \"Baigneuses dans la forêt\" (1944, Museum zu Allerheiligen, Schaffhausen), \"Clown et petite écuyère\" (1946), \"Portrait de l'artiste\" (1948, Kunsthaus Aarau), \"Fille dans la chambre rouge\" (1948, Museum zu Allerheiligen), \"Nature morte au crâne\" (1950) and \"L'arène jaune\" (1953–54).\n\nAuberjonois' paintings reflect a slow maturation, reaching their artistic apogee at around 1948 when he was 76 years old. Often disappointed with himself, he destroyed many of his works. His drawings, both formal studies and caricatures, are largely independent of his pictorial work. That work is both modern in the deformation it imposes upon nature, and conservative in its choice of subjects.\n\nDespite now appearing as a leading and emblematic figure in Swiss art after Ferdinand Hodler, Auberjonois had no clear successors and few students in his time. He exerted considerable influence, however, through his art criticism published in the French-speaking Swiss press. His artistic reception in his own region, the \"Romandie,\" was poor during his lifetime, and his recognition was mostly gained in the German-speaking part of Switzerland and abroad.\n\nSignificant works of René Auberjonois are on public display at the Aargauer Kunsthaus, the Kunstmuseum Basel, the Cantonal Museum of Fine Arts in Lausanne, the Kunsthaus Zürich and the Werner Coninx-Stiftung. His work \"Nature morte (soleils, table de jardin verte)\", 1946, is by Museo Cantonale d'Arte of Lugano.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109608", "title": "Promodal Transportes Aéreos", "text": "Promodal Transportes Aéreos\n\nPromodal Transportes Aéreos was a short-lived cargo airline based in São Paulo, Brazil.\n\n\nThe airline was established in 2003 and was wholly owned by Grupo GPT. Operations ceased in 2004, and the company was subsequently dissolved.\n\nThe Promodal fleet consisted of one McDonnell Douglas DC-8 aircraft (as of January 2005).\n"}
{"id": "2109609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109609", "title": "Montreal Museum of Fine Arts", "text": "Montreal Museum of Fine Arts\n\nThe Montreal Museum of Fine Arts (MMFA; , MBAM) is an art museum in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It is the largest art museum in Canada by gallery space. The museum is located on the historic Golden Square Mile stretch of Sherbrooke Street.\n\nThe MMFA is spread across five pavilions, and occupies a total floor area of , 13,000 () of which are exhibition space. With the 2016 inauguration of the Michal and Renata Hornstein Pavilion for Peace, the museum campus was expected to become the eighteenth largest art museum in North America. The permanent collection included approximately 44,000 works in 2013. The original \"reading room\" of the Art Association of Montreal was the precursor of the museum's current library, the oldest art library in Canada.\n\nThe Montreal Museum of Fine Arts is a member of the International Group of Organizers of Large-scale Exhibitions, also known as the Bizot Group, a forum which allows the leaders of the largest museums in the world to exchange works and exhibitions. \n\nFounded in 1860, it is the oldest museum in Canada.\n\nFounded in 1860 by Bishop Fulford, the Art Association of Montreal was created to \"encourage the appreciation of fine arts among the people of the city\".\n\nSince it did not have a permanent place to store acquisitions the Art Association was not able to acquire works to display nor to seek works from collectors. During the following twenty years, the organization had an itinerant existence during which its shows and expositions were held in various Montreal venues.\n\nIn 1877, the Art Association received an exceptional gift from Benaiah Gibb, a Montreal businessman. He gave the core of his art collection consisting of 72 canvases and 4 bronzes. In addition he donated to the Montreal institution a building site on the north-east corner of Phillips Square and further the sum of money of $8,000. This latter gift was on condition that a new museum be constructed on the site within three years. On the 26 May 1879, the Governor General of Canada, Sir John Douglas Sutherland Campbell, inaugurated the Art Gallery of the Art Association of Montreal, the first building in the history of Canada to be constructed specifically for the purpose of housing an art collection. The Art Gallery at Phillips Square, designed by the Hopkins and Wily architecture firm, comprised an exhibition room, another smaller room (known as the Reading Room) reserved for graphic works as well as a lecture hall and an embryonic art school. The museum was enlarged in 1893 by founding member G. Drummond's nephew, Andrew Thomas Taylor, with decorative carving by sculptor Henry Beaumont. The Art Association held an annual show of works created by its members as well as a Spring Salon devoted to the works of living Canadian Artists.\n\nThe gift made by Benaiah Gibb was a watershed event in the founding of the museum's collection. The generous gift engaged a keen interest in the public and, because of it, the donations multiplied.\n\nToo cramped at its original location, the Art Association strongly considered the idea of moving from Phillips Square to the Golden Square Mile, where the most of the city's financial elite lived at the time. They settled on the site of the abandoned Holton House, on Sherbrooke Street West, for the construction of the new museum. Senator Robert Mackay, the owner of the property, was convinced to sell the house for a good price. A committee responsible for the construction of the museum was formed consisting of James Ross, Richard B. Angus, Vincent Meredith, Louis-Joseph Forget and David Morrice (the father of painter James Wilson Morrice). Most members of this committee offered a considerable amount of their own money for the construction of the museum. This included a large donation by businessman James Ross. The Phillip's Square location was demolished in 1912, and is now a Burger King. \n\nA limited architectural design competition was conducted to select an architect among three architectural firms that were invited to apply. The museum committee selected the project proposed by brothers Edward Maxwell and William Sutherland Maxwell. Trained in the Beaux-Arts tradition, they proposed a building that catered to French taste of the time: sober and majestic. Work began in the summer of 1910 and finished in the fall of 1912.\n\nOn December 9, 1912, the Governor General of Canada, Prince Arthur, Duke of Connaught and Strathearn, inaugurated the new Museum of the Art Association of Montreal on Sherbrooke Street West in front of 3,000 people present for the occasion.\n\nIn 1949, the Art Association of Montreal was renamed as the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, which was more representative of the institution's mandate.\n\nIn 1972, the MMFA became a semi-public institution funded mainly by government funds.\n\nAn expansion of the museum was undertaken during the 1970s culminating in 1976, with the opening of the Liliane and David M. Stewart Pavilion. Designed by architect Fred Lebensold the building backs directly onto the back of the Michal and Renata Hornstein Pavilion. The building's architecture is modernist, made of concrete structures located along du Musée Avenue and in contrast with the classical architecture of the first pavilion. It was controversial at the time, despite innovations like the ceiling box for a track lighting and large open interior. The pavilion houses nearly 900 decorative art and design objects. Most objects come from were donated by Liliane and David M. Stewart, hence the name of the pavilion. The collection includes furniture, glass, silverware, textiles, ceramics and works of industrial design. These objects were made of a variety materials, reflecting their origins in different countries and time periods.\n\nThe appointment of Bernard Lamarre in 1982 as president of the board of directors, revitalized the museum after several difficult years. In the mid 1980s, he proposed a major expansion of the museum. This proposal led to the construction of the Jean-Noël Desmarais Pavilion. In 1991, the museum's third building, designed by Moshe Safdie, was built on the south side of Sherbrooke Street. It was funded by contributions from governments and the members of the business community, notably the Desmarais family. Safdie's architectural design incorporated the facade of New Sherbrooke Apartments, an apartment-hotel that occupied the site since 1905.\n\nOn September 4, 1972, the museum was the site of the largest art theft in Canadian history, when armed thieves made off with jewellery, figurines and 18 paintings worth a total of $2 million at the time (approximately $ million today), including works by Delacroix, Gainsborough and a rare Rembrandt landscape (\"Landscape with Cottages\"). One painting, believed at the time to have been a Jan Brueghel the Elder but later reattributed to one of his students, was returned by the thieves as a way of opening ransom negotiations; the rest have never been recovered. The thieves likewise have never been identified, although there is at least one informal suspect. In 2003, \"The Globe and Mail\" estimated that the Rembrandt alone would be worth $1 million.\n\nWith the insurance money from the theft, the museum bought a large Peter Paul Rubens painting, \"The Leopards\", which it promoted as the largest Rubens in Canada. However, years later a conservator had the paint tested and found that the red pigments in it were mixed around 1687, four decades after Rubens died; the painting has since been reattributed to Rubens' students. In 2007, on the 35th anniversary of the theft, it was removed from exhibit and remains in storage.\n\nOne day before the 39th anniversary of the 1972 theft, a visitor took a Roman marble head from the 1st century CE from its pedestal. The perpetrator was able to escape the museum before the head's absence was discovered. Late in October 2011, about eight weeks after the original theft, a similarly-sized sandstone relief of a guard's head dating to 5th-century-BCE Persia was stolen the same way. The two works were valued at $1.3 million together.\n\nIn late 2013 a tip led investigators to the home of Simon Metke, an Edmonton man. The SQ, in conjunction with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, executed a search warrant and recovered the Persian piece in January 2014. He was charged with possession of stolen property, possessing the proceeds of a crime and possessing a controlled substance for the purpose of trafficking; his girlfriend faced the latter two charges as well.\n\nMetke pled guilty to the first charge in April 2017. He and the prosecutors agreed that while he did not know the relief had been stolen, he could have taken more steps to ascertain that it had not been than just doing a Google search on \"Is a Mesopotamian artifact missing?\" He received a conditional discharge with probation and community service as his sentence; a character in the 2016 film \"Yoga Hosers\" was inspired by him after the story was reported in the media.\n\nThe insurance company had taken legal ownership of the relief as a result of paying the claim, and while the museum could have bought it back by simply repaying the claim it declined to do so, as the relief was offered for sale at the 2016 Frieze Art Fair. While police suggested at the time of Metke's arrest they had some leads on the thief, he has not been identified. The Roman head also remains missing as of 2017.\n\nThe museum is partitioned into five pavilions: a 1912 Beaux Arts building designed by William Sutherland Maxwell and brother Edward Maxwell, now named the Michal and Renata Hornstein Pavilion; the modernist Jean-Noël Desmarais Pavilion across the street, designed by Moshe Safdie, built in 1991; the Liliane and David M. Stewart Pavilion, the Claire and Marc Bourgie Pavilion built 2011 and recently inaugurated the Michal and Renata Hornstein Pavilion for Peace.\n\nWhile the Desmarais Pavilion houses modern and contemporary art collection, the Hornstein's focus is specifically archaeology and ancient art; the Lilian and David M. Stewart is devoted to decorative arts and design. The Claire and Marc Bourgie houses the Quebec and Canadian art, and the new Michal and Renata Hornstein Pavilion for peace is the home for the international art collection.\n\nOn February 14, 2007, the museum's administration board announced its project to convert the , located on Sherbrooke West street, into a Canadian art pavilion. This new pavilion allowed the museum to double the display surface currently dedicated to Canadian artists. A Romanesque Revival church with Tiffany stained glass, dating from 1893–94, the church had been designated a National Historic Site of Canada in 1998. It was named the Claire and Marc Bourgie pavilion, as a recognition of the family's considerable financial support, and opened in 2010.\n\nWith the addition of a fifth pavilion, the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts occupies a surface area of , of which is dedicated to exhibition space. The expansion will make it the eighteenth largest art museum in North America.\n\nIn 1892, John W. Tempest bequeathed sixty oil paintings and watercolor paintings as well as a trust fund for the purchase of works of art. This was the main source of income for the museum's acquisition of European paintings until the 1950s.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th century, the large art collections owned by many prominent Montreal families became dispersed through shared inheritance. However, some heirs made large donations to the museum, such members of the Drummond, Angus, Van Horne, and Hosmer families, among others. In 1927, a collection of over 300 objects, including 150 paintings, was donated by the descendants of Baron Strathcona and Mount Royal.\n\nIn 1917, the Art Association of Montreal created a department devoted to the decorative arts. The department was entrusted to Frederick Cleveland Morgan, who became the curator of the collection on a voluntary basis from 1917 until his death in 1962. Morgan added more than 7,000 pieces in the form of acquisitions, bequests or donations to the museum's collection. He also expanded the mandate of the museum, from an institution dedicated solely to the fine arts to an encyclopedic museum, open to all forms of art.\n\nSince 1955, the museum gained the acquisition funds it needed to buy Canadian or foreign works from the legacy of Horsley and Annie Townsend. Several gifts and bequests are made by the heirs or descendants of the collectors who founded the Art Association. Other donations come from new donors such as Joseph Arthur Simard, who in 1959 offered a collection of 3,000 Japanese incense boxes that belonged to the French statesman Georges Clemenceau.\n\nIn 1960, the centennial of the founding of the Art Association of Montreal was highlighted by the publication of a catalog of selected works from the collection and a museum guide.\n\nOn September 4, 1972, a major theft took place at the museum. Fifty objects were taken including eighteen paintings, including works by Peter Paul Rubens, Rembrandt, Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot and Eugène Delacroix that were never recovered.\n\nMajor contributions have been made by Renata and Michal Hornstein since the 1970s. These have included works by Old Masters, as well as several of the largest collections of drawings of the Swiss painter Ferdinand Hodler.\n\nThese gifts expanded the range of the museum's collections, and reached a peak in 2000, with admission of the modern design collection assembled by Liliane M. Stewart and David M. Stewart, long a part of the Montreal Decorative Arts Museum and exhibited at the MMFA from 1997 to 2000. Liliane M. Stewart donated over 5,000 objects to the museum's collection (estimated value of C$15 million). \n\nThe museum is affiliated with the Canadian Museums Association, the Canadian Heritage Information Network, and the Virtual Museum of Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109612", "title": "Churra", "text": "Churra\n\nThe Churra (also known as \"Spanish Churro\") is an ancient Iberian breed of sheep from Zamora province in Castile and León. The ewes produce the milk for Zamorana cheese; the meat is also prized.\n\nThe Churra (renamed \"churro\" by American frontiersmen) was first imported to North America in the 16th century and used to feed Spanish armies and settlers. By the 17th Century, churras were popular with the Spanish settlers in the upper Rio Grande Valley. Flocks of churras were also acquired by Navajo through raids and trading, and soon became an important part of their economy and culture.\n\nIn the early 1900s, the United States federal government decided that other breeds would be better for reservation life and a program of out-breeding nearly caused the churra sheep to go extinct. People concerned with quality of wool and the history and culture of the Navajo are making an effort to save the breed.\n\nSpanish traditional wisdom advises not to mix \"churras\" and \"merinas\", i.e., not to confuse different concepts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109614", "title": "Thoughts of a Predicate Felon", "text": "Thoughts of a Predicate Felon\n\nThoughts of a Predicate Felon is the debut studio album by American rapper Tony Yayo, which was released on August 30, 2005 through G-Unit Records and Interscope Records. The album sold 215,000 copies in its first week. Debuting at # 2 on both billboard 200 and U.S Top hip hop/ R&B charts. On December 13, 2005 the album had sold over 800,000 units being certified gold by the RIAA. As of April 19, 2006, Thoughts Of A Predicate Felon has sold 981,000 copies in the United States and 2 million copies worldwide.\n\nThe album features the hit single, \"So Seductive\", featuring 50 Cent. Other singles on the album include \"Pimpin'\", \"Curious\" featuring American R&B singer Joe, and \"I Know You Don't Love Me\" featuring G-Unit.\n\n\"With 50, he has the notoriety of hit records. I actually wrote 'Seductive' before he wrote 'Candy Shop'. [That's why] you hear him say 'so seductive' [in the 'Candy Shop' intro]. 50, he plays a big part in all our albums. I feel like we can stand on our own cause we're writing all our material,\" Tony told SOHH.com. \"50, he just adds on. I love to hear 50 get on a record. I love the way 50 rides the beat. I did 'Seductive', 50 came on it and I was like, 'I gotta keep him on it' cause it sounds ten times better with him on it.\"\n\n50 Cent is the executive producer, and is also a featured artist on the album. G-Unit members also contribute to the album, including Lloyd Banks and Young Buck, as well as various other guests and Interscope label mate Obie Trice. The album was released on August 30, 2005. The album was delayed and highly anticipated, due to Tony Yayo's time in prison.\n\nIt features guest appearances and production from various artists, such as Eminem (who is also an additional producer on the song \"It Is What It Is\"), and a limited edition with a DVD is available. The album also includes other appearances from Spider Loc, Olivia, Joe, Kokane, and Jagged Edge. Other producers include Havoc, Hi-Tek, J.R. Rotem, Domingo, Focus..., LT Moe, Megahertz, Punch, Ron Browz, Sam Sneed, Studio 44, Sebb, Black Jeruz, Sha Money XL, and DJ Khalil. Additional producers include Jeff Bass of the Bass Brothers, and Luis Resto.\n\nThe songs \"So Seductive\" and \"Live By The Gun\" were featured in the 2005 Xbox video game . Tony Yayo appears in the video game providing his own voice and likeness and is a playable character in arcade mode.\n\n\"Rolling Stone\"'s Christian Hoard wrote: \"With the exception of a few complete duds, Felon is a solid stopgap, although it may also mark the moment when designer bullet holes start to go out of fashion.\" Some critics noted that the album had stellar production but thought that Tony's vocals and lyrics were not up to par.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109618", "title": "North Alabama", "text": "North Alabama\n\nNorth Alabama is a region of the U.S. state of Alabama, generally considered to include 16 counties: Blount, Cherokee, Colbert, Cullman, DeKalb, Etowah, Franklin, Jackson, Lauderdale, Lawrence, Limestone, Madison, Marion, Marshall, Morgan, and Winston, with a combined population of 1,000,985, or 20.94% of the state's population as of 2010 Census.\n\nHuntsville is the largest metropolitan area in the region.\n\nThe anchor city of the region is Huntsville, but other cities of notable size include (in order of population): Decatur, Madison, Florence (along with its sister cities Muscle Shoals, Sheffield, and Tuscumbia), and Athens.\n\nDecatur and Florence share the designation of anchor city for Northwestern Alabama because they are the largest economic centers north of Birmingham and west of Huntsville. Most corporations use Decatur as a regional hub for the Northwest Alabama region because Huntsville is located further east. However, historically Florence has been the main cultural center of the northwest.\n\nLocals tend to refer to this area as the \"Tennessee Valley\" in reference to the Tennessee River, which flows through the northernmost part of the state. A section of East Tennessee shares the \"Tennessee Valley\" name. Large parts of North Alabama are low upland, the eastern regions part of the Cumberland Plateau, marked by tablelands incised with gorges, some of them, such as Little River Canyon in DeKalb County, of considerable depth.\n\n\n\n\nThe northern areas of Alabama contain a wide variety of industrial, manufacturing, and high-tech corporations with both large and small operations. Each of the three economic centers in the region (Huntsville, Decatur, and Florence) have a distinct type of economic base. The Huntsville area is mostly dominated by high-tech industries and federal operations such as Boeing and NASA. The Decatur area, in the central part of the region, is dependent mostly on industrial and manufacturing companies, such as General Electric and 3M, but some high-tech and federal entities like the United Launch Alliance, who produces launch vehicles for NASA and other agencies, and the Tennessee Valley Authority also have roots in the area. The Florence area, also known as \"The Shoals\", is primarily dependent on industry and manufacturing, hosting companies such as Sara Lee. The entire region relies heavily on row-crop, cattle and poultry production. Agribusiness plays a vital role in The Valley. Some of the largest row-crop operations in the state reside on plantations in The Valley.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109619", "title": "Solor", "text": "Solor\n\nSolor is a volcanic island located off the eastern tip of Flores island in the Lesser Sunda Islands of Indonesia, in the Solor Archipelago. The island supports a small population that has been whaling for hundreds of years. They speak the languages of Adonara and Lamaholot. There are at least five volcanoes on this island which measures only by . The island's area is .\n\nThe island is divided into three districts (\"kecamatan\"), tabulated below with their areas (in km) and their 2010 Census populations.\n\nIn 1520, the Portuguese established a trading post in the village of Lamakera on the eastern side of the island as a transit harbor between Maluku and Portuguese Malacca. In 1562, Dominican priests built a palm-trunk fortress which Javanese Muslims burned down the following year. The fort was rebuilt from more durable materials and the Dominicans commenced the Christianisation of the local population. By 1590 the Portuguese and Christian population numbered about 25,000. There were, however, repeated displays of resistance against both the Portuguese and their religion; in 1598–1599, for example, the Portuguese required an armada of 90 ships to put down a Solorese uprising.\n\nAt this time, there was a conflict between the traders and the priests, so the traders left Solor and settled in Larantuka at Flores island. When the Dutch came in 1613, the priests surrendered at the first attack and were brought to Larantuka, too.\n\nThe Dutch kept the fort, but did not make a profit close to the Portuguese port. After two commanders defected to the Portuguese, they gave up Solor. In 1636 the Portuguese were attacked by the Dutch and had to abandon the fort. In 1646 the Dutch occupied the fort again. The first of the new commanders was suspended, because he married an indigenous woman. The second commander challenged the Portuguese commander to a duel and was slain. In 1648 the Dutch left and the Dominican priests returned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109634", "title": "The Macra Terror", "text": "The Macra Terror\n\nThe Macra Terror is the completely missing seventh serial of the fourth season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts from 11 March to 1 April 1967. It focuses on the Second Doctor, Ben, Polly and Jamie unravelling a mystery on a human colony planet in the future, and introduces the alien race known as the Macra. Although audio recordings, still photographs, and clips of the story exist, no episodes of this serial are known to have survived. \n\nIn March 2019, BBC Studios released an animated version of the serial using its surviving audio.\n\nThe Doctor, Ben, Polly and Jamie reach an unnamed planet in Earth's colonial future, concerned about seeing a claw from observing the TARDIS's time scanner. Upon landing, they subdue a half-crazed colonist named Medok, who is promptly arrested by Security Chief Ola. The travellers are escorted by Ola to a colony which refines a poison gas they are mining for unknown reasons. The Doctor is troubled by the colony's forced festivities, remaining unconvinced by the promises of the Colony's Pilot and the well wishes of the mysterious Controller who appears on a monitor as a still image to welcome the colony's guests. After Medok is paraded before the colonists as an example, he escapes from his cell when the Doctor visits him to learn about the creatures that he sees infesting the colony at night. The Doctor weasels out of being arrested and sentenced to labour in the mine since he and his friends captured Medok in the first place before slipping away to find Medok, learning more of the colony's infestation by giant insects and the fact that those who see them are then hospitalised and reconditioned. The night curfew begins and the other time-travellers retire to their rest quarters. The Doctor and Medok use the opportunity to investigate, and find the giant crab-like Macra roaming the colony.\n\nThe pair are soon captured and brought before the Pilot, but the Doctor is released when Medok claims the Doctor was convincing him to turn himself in. Later, the Pilot is told by the Controller to hypnotize their guests so that they can work in the mines. Jamie resists but Ben succumbs to the brainwashing, the Doctor arrested alongside Jamie when he disables the hypnosis equipment after snapping Polly out of her trance. Polly ends up encountering the Macra while running from Ben, with Ben momentarily freed from his conditioning long enough to save her and bring her to the Pilot's office where the Doctor and Jamie are. The Pilot is forced to request the Controller reveal his true face at the Doctor's insistence after being revealed to be hypnotised himself, with the group seeing an aged and terrified old man killed by the Macra: the Controller's true identity.\n\nThe briefly disturbed Pilot regains his composure and orders the immediate arrest of the Doctor's group, with the Doctor, Polly and Jamie sentenced to hard labour in the most treacherous part of the mine. Medok has also been sentenced to life there after his reconditioning failed, and warns them of the area's high mortality rate. The Doctor is left topside while the others venture into the deeper workings. Jamie and Medok escape, but the latter is seized by a Macra claw and dragged away to his death. Jamie comes face-to-face with a giant Macra, which seems to be sleeping until a burst of the deadly gas rejuvenates the creature. Other Macra soon appear and advance on Jamie.\n\nThe Doctor uses his guile to sow seeds of doubt regarding the truth of the planet in the minds of the colonists and of Ben, whose conditioning is weakening. The Doctor has worked out the gas flow seems to be the key to the situation and cleverly reverses it from the mine control area. Polly has reached the surface, and the Doctor calculates that he can buy Jamie time to escape from the mine as well. The improved oxygen flow weakens the Macra, enabling Jamie to escape.\n\nThe Doctor and Polly infiltrate the control area and find it overrun with Macra, the Doctor realizing the Macra need the gas to survive and have brainwashed the colonists into serving their needs. Ola demands that the travelers be punished for disobeying Control, but the Doctor persuades the Pilot to accompany him to the Control center. With their hold on the Pilot broken, the Macra give Ola full authority to place the Doctor, the Pilot, Polly and Jamie in an area of the mine where a mixture of combustible gasses will shortly explode. Ben, who has finally broken his conditioning, frees them, and some manipulation of the gas pipes sends the combustible mixture to the Control Centre. When the gas explodes, the Macra are all killed. The Doctor's group remain a bit longer as the members of the colony celebrate their freedom while declaring a holiday in their heroes' honor.\n\n Episode is missing\n\nWorking titles for this story include \"The Spidermen\", \"The Insect-Men\" and \"The Macras\". This story introduced the first new opening title sequence since the series began. The new sequence was created by original titles designer Bernard Lodge and engineer Ben Palmer on 9 December 1966. For the first time, the face of the lead actor, Patrick Troughton, was incorporated into the \"howl-around\" patterns but the titles used the original theme music until Episode 1 of The Faceless Ones.\n\nAnneke Wills wore a short wig for the majority of this serial, after Polly receives a makeover at the Colony. \n\nAll episodes of \"The Macra Terror\" are missing from the BBC archives. In February 2018, work began on an animated version of the serial, directed by Charles Norton and produced by BBC Studios. The production made use of animation facilities at Sun & Moon animation studio in Bristol. All character designs were drawn by lead artist Martin Geraghty. The bulk of the animation used Toon Boom Harmony's master controller. The animation first aired on BBC America on 26 December 2019.\n\nPeter Jeffrey later played Count Grendel in \"The Androids of Tara\" (1978). Sandra Bryant had previously played Kitty in \"The War Machines\" (1966) and John Harvey played Professor Brett in the same serial. Gertan Klauber had previously appeared in \"The Romans\" (1965).\n\nAfter playing the part of Chicki in the first episode, Sandra Bryant asked to be released from her contract so that she could accept another job. Karol Keyes took over the part for the final episode.\n\nPaul Cornell, Martin Day and Keith Topping summed up the story as \"A flawed, but interesting examination, of a peculiarly 60s psychosis.\"\n\nDavid J Howe and Stephen James Walker gave the serial a positive review although they thought that some of the more serious aspects of the story were \"somewhat undermined by the presence of the Macra themselves, which tends to take it into traditional monster mayhem territory.\" It was considered to be a good production with strong performances from the guest cast who were \"all excellent, bringing to life some interesting and well-drawn characters.\" \n\nThe animated recreation of \"The Macra Terror\" was reviewed by Martin Belam of \"The Guardian\", who felt that \"the new animation makes the Macra far more evil scuttling creatures, and the story works all the better for it,\" but that the serial was overall \"not one of Troughton’s best\".\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Ian Stuart Black, was published by Target Books in July 1987.\n\nAs with all missing episodes, off-air recordings of the soundtrack exist due to contemporary fan efforts. In 1992 these were released on audio cassette, accompanied by linking narration from the Sixth Doctor, Colin Baker. In 2000, the soundtrack was remastered and re-released on CD, again with the Baker narration. In November 2004, surviving clips were included in the \"Lost in Time\" DVD set. In 2012, the soundtrack was remastered and re-released on CD as part of the Lost TV Episodes Collection Four box set, this time with new narration by Anneke Wills.\n\nThe animated reconstruction of the serial was released by BBC Studios on TVoD, DVD and Blu-ray on 25 March 2019; all three formats contain Colour and Black and White versions, as well as a \"bonus\" abridged animation of \"The Wheel in Space: Episode 1\". The DVD and Blu-ray also contain a tele-snap reconstruction, restored surviving footage and photos from the 1967 version, both the Baker and Wills narrated audio, footage of the Macra prop being built at Shawcraft Models, pre-production content from the animation and an audio commentary with the original cast. A Steelbook version of the Blu-ray contains the Tenth Doctor episode \"Gridlock\" on a bonus disc. \"The Macra Terror\" was animated in Toon Boom Harmony animation software.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109639", "title": "Movie Critters' Big Picture", "text": "Movie Critters' Big Picture\n\nMovie Critters' Big Picture is a family feature movie that stars \"muppet\" style characters. The 80-minute feature follows \"Benny Gopher\" as he leaves the farm in order to make it big in show business. \"Movie Critters' Big Picture\" takes the entire family on a hilarious journey via amazingly life lie puppets, songs, satire, and parody.\n\nThe audience visits Sunshine pictures \"Hollywood's Brightest Studio' and are introduced to some of the biggest names in show business including \"Arnold Hamandegger\", \"Cary Ant\", \"Frankie Sinatrat\", and the rest of the \"Rat Pack\", \"Charlie Chimplin\", \"Jay Rhino\", \"Gloria Swansong\", and more.\n\n\"Benny Gopher\" is so focused on making it in Tinsel Town that the truth sometimes takes a back seat. Through Benny's struggle with conscience, the audience learns about the importance of being honest.\n\nThe film is produced, directed, and written by \"Steven F. Zambo\". The Co-Producer is \"Michael J. Krahn\". The Associate Producer is \"Ted Lecher\".\n\n\"Movie Critters' Big Picture\" received the \"Dove Foundation\" Seal of Approval, three \"Telly Awards\", the \"Aurora Awards\", and the \"Film Advisory Seal of Approval\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2109646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109646", "title": "Puma Air", "text": "Puma Air\n\nPuma Air (Puma Linhas Aéreas) was a Brazilian airline founded in 2002. In August 2011 it ceased operations.\nThe airline was founded on January 21, 2002 with a fleet of 3 Cessna 208B Grand Caravan and serving 12 cities in the state of Pará. Originally a charter and air taxi operator, later it started to operate also scheduled flights.\n\nAfter a period of expansion and becoming an important regional carrier on the Amazon region, Puma Air, under severe economical difficulties, grounded its aircraft and interrupted all services in February 2009. It was then sold and re-organized.\n\nThe new share-holders composition was approved by ANAC in January 2010: 80% of the shares belong to the Brazilian company Ipiranga Obras Públicas e Privadas and to Gleison Gamboni e Souza, and 20% of the shares belong to the Angolan company Angola Air Services. Puma Air restarted its operations on April 12, 2010, with flights from Belém to Macapá and São Paulo, after being grounded between January and March 2010. Puma Air does not restrict its services anymore to the Amazon region.\n\nThe airline planned to end the year 2010 with three Boeing 737-300s and to start operating a flight between Recife and Luanda, using a Boeing 767-300ER wet-leased from Gol Airlines with Varig colors. On August 23, 2010 the National Civil Aviation Agency of Brazil (ANAC) designated Puma Air to operate 4 weekly flights on the route. However, on July 2011 those plans were still not implemented.\n\nAfter being grounded since August 16, 2011, the airline lost its operational license on July 23, 2013.\n\nPuma Air served the following cities:\n\nAs of September 2011 the fleet of Puma Air included the following aircraft:\n\n"}
{"id": "2109648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109648", "title": "Döbling", "text": "Döbling\n\nDöbling () is the 19th District in the city of Vienna, Austria (German: \"19. Bezirk, Döbling, Doebling\"). It is located on the north end from the central districts, north of the districts Alsergrund and Währing. Döbling has some heavily populated urban areas with many residential buildings, and borders the Vienna Woods.\nIt hosts some of the most expensive residential areas such as Grinzing, Sievering, Neustift am Walde and Kaasgraben and is also the site of many \"Heurigen\" restaurants. There are also some large \"Gemeindebauten\", including Vienna's most famous, the Karl-Marx-Hof.\n\nAlso located in Döbling is the American International School of Vienna, Lauder Business School and Q19 Shopping Center.\n\nDöbling is located in the northwest of Vienna and spans the slope of the Wienerwald (Vienna Forest) to the Danube and the Danube Canal that make up the border of the district in the east. The Danube forms the border between Döbling and the district Floridsdorf, and the canal forms the border to the district Brigittenau. At the Gürtel Bridge, over the Donau Canal, the district border splits off and separates Döbling in the south along the Vienna Belt from the district Alsergrund. At the Schrottenbachgasse the district border branches towards the northwest and separates Döbling from the district Währing along the line Währinger Park-Hasenauerstraße-Peter Jordan Straße-Starkfriedgasse -Sommerhaidenweg. There is then a short border to the district Hernals at the edge of Vienna.\n\nNearly 32.6% of the Döbling district area is land (compared to Vienna citywide as 33.3%). To 85.2% involves Housing areas; the proportion of Betriebsbaugebiete, as 2.2% of the district area, is very low (Vienna 7.6%). With a greenspace share as 51.8% (48.3% for Vienna), Döbling is the 5th greenest district of Vienna. It accounts for 14.9% of district land as agricultural land, while the vineyard here plays the biggest role around Grinzing, Nußdorf, Sievering, Neustift am Walde and Salmannsdorf. Further 25.4% of the district is forested, plus 5.3% in meadows, 2.7% in small gardens, 2.5% in parks, and 0.9% as sports and recreational areas. The remainder district territory has 11.0% in traffic/transport and 4.6% on water. While the proportion of water is higher in relation to the whole city of Vienna, the proportion on traffic is below.\n\nAcross the large proportion of the Vienna Woods in Döbling, lie numerous hills of Vienna. Many lie on the border with Lower Austria and the neighboring districts. The highest summit is Hermannskogel (542 m, 1778 ft;) with an outlook tower; however, the symbols of Döbling are the Kahlenberg (484 m, 1588 ft) with an outlook and a radio mast, and the nearby Leopoldsberg (427 m, 1401 ft). Other hills in this region are: the Reisenberg, Latisberg, Vogelsangberg, Dreimarkstein and Nußberg. Besides, there are partially built-up elevations in Döbling, such as Hohe Warte in Heiligenstadt, the Hungerberg in Grinzing, and the Hackenberg in Sievering.\n\nIn the district zone, numerous streams originate,\nbut now are mostly hard-installed or led as stream canals.\nOriginally they all flowed, with the exception of the Waldbach (forest stream), into the Danube canal. Because the catchment areas of the streams lie in the sandstone zone of the Viennese forest, the streams can and were able to grow on a multiple of its normal water quantity. This led again and again to destructive flood waters, especially along the Krottenbach. The Krottenbach was the most important stream in Döbling, and is led practically perfectly as a stream canal. It includes the area behind the federal secondary school Billrothstraße, underground, and through Sievering, joins into the Arbesbach (Erbsenbach) stream, which today in the upper run, still flows openly until Obersievering.\n\nThe Nesselbach passes yet to the Krapfenwaldl openly, before it unites underground with the Reisenbergbach stream in Grinzing. The Reisenbergbach stream passes openly at the same time yet until shortly before the center of Grinzing. Almost entirely in the open, the Schreiberbach stream passes up to Nußdorf and the Waldbach stream at Kahlenbergerdorf. Through diverting water, the Döblinger Bach stream has entirely disappeared. This sprang originally in the Cottage and flowed in the Spittelau into the Danube Canal.\n\nDöbling is formed by more, newer self-sufficient communities, including:\n\nDöbling was first mentioned in 1114 as \"\"de Teopilic\"\".\nThe name derives from the Slavic \"* topl’ika\"\n(\"swampy waters\" or \"swampy place\").\nThe name \"Döbling\" relates to the lake of the Krottenbach stream,\nwhile further possibility of interpretation derives from\nOld Slavic \"Toplica\" ( \"warm stream\").\nLater spellings of the place-name were for example \"Toblich\",\n\"Töbling\" and \"Tepling\". In the formation of the district 1890/92,\nthe name was finally \"Döbling\", from the largest municipality,\nOberdöbling, in the incorporated district.\n\nThe district Döbling had been settled over 5,000 years ago, while the area Döbling-Nußdorf-Heiligenstadt next to the area Simmering-Landstraße probably represents the oldest settlement area in the Vienna area. Known is that on the Leopoldsberg hill, a weapon-bearing village with a fortified tower existed in which the inhabitants of surrounding villages gathered at risk. About the residents of that time, little is known; science refers to them as makers of \"Donauländischen\" (Danube-land) culture; they were not however Indo-Germanic. These penetrated into the Vienna area until one thousand years later, where the resident population mixed with the immigrant Illyrians and Celtic people. The actions of the Romans, at the current site of Döbling, is revealed by several findings. So found were: in Heiligenstadt a fortified tower of the limes (border wall); in Sievering a Mithraeum temple was found; and excavations in Heiligenstadt's church revealed a Roman cemetery. In Sievering in Roman times, a great quarry existed, with a large worker settlement. A further means of subsistence of the population was the vineyard, which presumably already operated before the Romans arrived. Otherwise, the people conducted agriculture for their own needs.\nIn Roman times, the garrison town Vindobona was established to cover a part of today's 1st District, the Innere Stadt. Within the boundaries of Döbling a tower of the Roman defence wall, the limes, remnants of a temple and tombstones from a cemetery have been unearthed. A quarry located in today's Sievering was operated in Roman times and would have been staffed by local quarry men.\n\nThroughout the centuries the suburb, due to its strategic location (elevated in respect to the centre of Vienna) was occupied and often looted. The decisive encounter of the Battle of Vienna in 1683 was fought on September 12, between Jan III Sobieski and the forces of the Ottoman Empire, commanded by the Grand Vizier Kara Mustafa Pasha.\nAt the 2010 elections the FPÖ won 6.3% and reached 14.7% The Greens lost 0.3% and now have 13.6%. \nThe ÖVP lost dramatically 4.3% and now only has 36.4%, the SPÖ lost 2.5% and now only has 31.8%. \nThe BZÖ could practically double itself through winning of 0.6% up to now 1,3%, whereas the KPÖ reached 0.8% and is stagnating.\n\nDue to the hilly terrain, large forested areas - used as hunting grounds by the nobility - remained between the creeks and villages, spread throughout the district. The topology also attracted wine growers. This combination increased the prosperity of the suburb, as noblemen built villas and hunting lodges whilst the burghers of Vienna relaxed at the Heurigen wine-gardens. The existing villages expanded, as the population increased, until the district \"Döbling\" was established at the end of the 19th century, in 1892.\n\nIn the following years, Döbling developed as a district for the prosperous middle and upper class. In the period of the First Republic between World War I and World War II the Social Democrats also planned and erected many blocks of public housing. The Karl-Marx-Hof is one of the largest of these settlements (\"Siedlungen\").\nThe suburb of Döbling had a high percentage of Jewish residents and maintained a synagogue in the district. In the Reichskristallnacht this synagogue (like almost all others in Vienna) was destroyed.\n\nThe distribution of religious preferences of the population in the 13th District, in 2001, differed most from the average in Vienna. With 55.7% of residents being Roman Catholic (Vienna: 49.2%), it is the second highest of all districts of Vienna. There are 11 districts of Roman Catholic parishes, the city Deanery 19 images. Also, the percentage of people with Protestant religion reached 6.5%, as one of the highest values of the districts in Vienna. The proportion of people with different religions are 4.0% known to Islam, 3.2% for the orthodoxy. About 23.8% said they had no religious community.\n\nThe Japanische garden in Wien, the Japanese garden, is located in Döbling.\n\n\n\nFirst Vienna F.C. are based in the district. Established on 22 August 1894, it is the country's oldest team and has played a notable role in the history of the game in Austria. They play at the Hohe Warte Stadium in Heiligenstadt, home of Vienna Vikings American football team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109653", "title": "Stephen Coonts", "text": "Stephen Coonts\n\nStephen Coonts (born July 19, 1946) is an American thriller and suspense novelist.\n\nStephen Coonts grew up in Buckhannon, West Virginia, a small coal-mining town. Following high school graduation, he earned a B.A. degree in political science at West Virginia University in 1968. After joining the Navy upon graduation and then going to Officer Candidate School, Coonts went to flight school at Naval Air Station Pensacola and earned his wings as a Naval Aviator in 1969.\n\nCoonts was later assigned to Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and VA-128 to train in the A-6 Intruder, a medium attack, all-weather and carrier-based jet. After training, Coonts was attached to and deployed with VA-196 to Vietnam. With 196, he served aboard the USS \"Enterprise\" (CVN-65) on two cruises and accumulated 1600 flying hours in the A-6. Coonts was awarded several commendations, including the Distinguished Flying Cross.\n\nAfter Vietnam, Coonts served as an A-6 flight instructor for two years, then was assigned as an assistant catapult and arresting gear officer aboard USS \"Nimitz\" (CVN-68). Coonts separated from the active duty Navy as a lieutenant in 1977 but remained as reserve officer, retiring as a commander with a total of 21 years of service.\n\nAfter leaving active duty, Coonts pursued a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree at the University of Colorado, graduating in 1979. He then worked as a lawyer for several oil and gas companies, pursuing his writing interests in his free time.\n\nCoonts began writing \"Flight of the Intruder\" in 1984, with the book being published by the US Naval Institute Press in 1986. The novel, based in part on his experiences as an A-6 pilot during the Vietnam War, remained for 28 weeks on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list, and later (1991) was made into a movie. This launched his career as a novelist, and he continued writing adventure-thrillers, most of them based on the main character from his first book, Jake Grafton. Coonts has also written several other series and stand-alone novels, but is best known for the Grafton books. In 1992, he was inducted into the Academy of Distinguished Alumni at his alma mater, West Virginia University. In 2014 West Virginia University awarded him an honorary Doctor of Letters degree.\n\nToday, Coonts continues to write, having had sixteen \"New York Times\" bestsellers (out of 36 books). He lives in Colorado with his third wife, Deborah Jean. He is divorced from romantic mystery novelist Deborah Coonts.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109654", "title": "Africa Rice Center", "text": "Africa Rice Center\n\nThe Africa Rice Center (AfricaRice), formerly known as the West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA), is a pan-African intergovernmental association and a CGIAR Research organization, currently headquartered in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire. AfricaRice is an agricultural research center that was constituted in 1971 by 11 West African countries. Presently the Center counts 26 African member states. Since 1986, AfricaRice has been one of the 15 specialized research centers of CGIAR.\n\nThe center runs regional research stations in Saint-Louis, Senegal, in Ibadan, Nigeria and country offices in Cotonou, Benin and in Antananarivo, Madagascar.\n\nAfricaRice aims to contribute to poverty alleviation and food security in Africa through research for development. The center has therefore close links to agricultural research organizations in the African member states, to agricultural universities and research institutes in Europe, Japan and the United States, and to the development sector, which include Non Governmental Organizations, farmers organizations and donors. AfricaRice, being part of the CGIAR system, shares resources with several of the other CGIAR organizations, including the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in Los Baños, Philippines, and the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture in Ibadan, Nigeria. In the course of reforms at the CGIAR, AfricaRice developed together with IRRI and International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) the Global Rice Science Partnership (GRiSP), which sets a global strategic research agenda for rice.\n\nOne of the major tasks of AfricaRice is the development and introduction of new rice seed varieties that are suitable for African conditions. NERICA, which stands for \"New Rice for Africa\", is two families of interspecific cultivars of African (\"Oryza glaberrima\") and Asian (\"Oryza sativa\") rice species, that was developed to improve the yields of African farmers. For his work on NERICA, Dr Monty Jones from Sierra Leone was awarded the World Food Prize in 2004 becoming the first African to win this award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109661", "title": "Secular Games", "text": "Secular Games\n\nThe Saecular Games (, originally ) was a Roman religious celebration involving sacrifices and theatrical performances, held in ancient Rome for three days and nights to mark the end of a \"saeculum\" and the beginning of the next. A \"saeculum\", supposedly the longest possible length of human life, was considered as either 100 or 110 years in length.\n\nAccording to Roman mythology, the Secular Games began when a Sabine man called Valesius prayed for a cure for his children's illness and was supernaturally instructed to sacrifice on the Campus Martius to Dis Pater and Proserpina, deities of the underworld. Some ancient authors traced official celebrations of the Games as far back as 509 BC, but the only clearly attested celebrations under the Roman Republic took place in 249 and in the 140s BC. They involved sacrifices to the underworld gods over three consecutive nights.\n\nThe Games were revived in 17 BC by Rome's first emperor Augustus, with the nocturnal sacrifices on the Campus Martius now transferred to the Moerae (fates), the Ilythiae (goddesses of childbirth), and Terra Mater (\"Mother Earth\"). The Games of 17 BC also introduced day-time sacrifices to Roman deities on the Capitoline and Palatine hills. Certain sacrifices were unusually specified to be performed by married women. Each sacrifice was followed by theatrical performances. Later emperors held celebrations in AD 88 and 204, after intervals of roughly 110 years. However, they were also held by Claudius in AD 47 to celebrate the 800th anniversary of Rome's foundation, which led to a second cycle of Games in 148 and 248. The Games were abandoned under later Christian emperors.\n\nAccording to Roman mythology told by Zosimus, the Secular Games originated with a Sabine man called Valesius, ancestor of the Valerii. When his children became seriously ill, he prayed to his household gods for their cure, offering to give up his own life in exchange. A voice told him to take them to Tarentum and to give them water from the Tiber to drink, heated on an altar of Dis Pater and Proserpina. Assuming that he had to travel to the Greek colony of Tarentum in southern Italy, he set out with his children on the journey. Sailing along the Tiber, he was instructed by the voice to stop on the Campus Martius, at a place which happened also to be called Tarentum. When he warmed water from the river and gave it to the children, they were miraculously cured and fell asleep. When they woke up, they informed Valesius that a figure had appeared to them in a dream and told the family to sacrifice to Dis Pater and Proserpina. Upon digging, Valesius found that an altar to those deities was buried on the site, and performed the ritual as instructed.\n\nCelebrations of the Games under the Roman Republic are poorly documented. Although some Roman antiquarians traced them as far back as 509 BC, some modern scholars consider that the first celebration well attested as having taken place was that of 249 BC, during the First Punic War. According to Varro, an antiquarian of the 1st century BC, the Games were introduced after a series of portents led to a consultation of the Sibylline Books by the quindecimviri. In accordance with the instructions contained in these books, sacrifices were offered at the Tarentum on the Campus Martius over three nights, to the underworld deities of Dis Pater and Proserpina. Varro also states that a vow was made that the Games would be repeated every hundred years, and another celebration did indeed take place in either 149 or 146 BC, at the time of the Third Punic War. However, Beard, North and Price suggest that the Games of 249 and the 140s BC were both held because of the immediate pressures of war, and that it was only with the revival in the 140s that they came to be considered as a regular centennial celebration. This sequence would have led to a celebration in 49 BC, but the civil wars apparently prevented this.\n\nThe Games were revived in 17 BC by Rome's first emperor Augustus. The date was justified by a Sibylline oracle that called for the Games to be celebrated every 110 years, and a new reconstruction of the Games' Republican history which placed a first celebration in 456 BC.\n\nBefore the Games themselves, heralds went around the city and invited the people to \"a spectacle, such as they had never witnessed and never would again\". The quindecimviri sat on the Capitol and in the temple of Apollo on the Palatine, and handed out to the free citizens torches, sulphur and asphalt, to be burnt as a means of purification. (This may have been modelled on the purificatory rituals of the Parilia, the anniversary of Rome's foundation.) Offerings of wheat, barley, and beans were also made.\n\nThe Senate decreed that an inscribed record of the Games should be set up in the Tarentum, a site in the Campus Martius. This inscription has partially survived, and offers information about the ceremonies. The night-time sacrifices were made not to the underworld deities Dis Pater and Proserpina, but to the Moerae (fates), the Ilythiae (goddesses of childbirth), and Terra Mater (the \"Earth mother\"). These were \"more beneficent honorands, who nonetheless shared with Dis Pater and Proserpina the twin characteristics of being Greek in nomenclature and without cult in the Roman state\". The nocturnal sacrifices to Greek deities on the Campus Martius alternated with day-time sacrifices to Roman deities on the Capitoline and Palatine hills.\nThe key roles were played by Augustus and his son-in-law Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa, in their capacity as members of the quindecimviri; Augustus participated alone in the night-time sacrifices but was joined by Agrippa for those during the day. After the sacrifices of June 3, choirs of boys and girls sang the \"Carmen Saeculare\", composed for the occasion by the poet Horace. This hymn was sung both on the Palatine and then on the Capitoline, but its words focus on the Palatine deities Apollo and Diana, which were more closely associated with Augustus. The hymn adds a further level of complexity to the alternation of sacrifices between Greek and Roman deities by addressing the Greek deities under Latin names.\n\nEach sacrifice was followed by theatrical performances. Once the major sacrifices were over, the days between June 5 and June 11 were devoted to Greek and Latin plays, and June 12 saw chariot racing and displays of hunting.\n\nThe Games continued to be celebrated under later emperors, but two different systems of calculation were used to determine their dates. Claudius held them in AD 47 to celebrate the 800th year from the foundation of Rome. According to Suetonius, a herald's proclamation of a spectacle \"which no one had ever seen or would ever see again\" amused his listeners, some of whom had attended the Games under Augustus.\n\nUnder subsequent emperors, Games were celebrated on both the Augustan and the Claudian systems. Domitian held his in AD 88, possibly 110 years from a planned Augustan celebration in 22 BC, and he was followed by Septimius Severus in AD 204, 220 years from the actual Augustan celebration. On both occasions, the procedure used in 17 BC was followed closely. Antoninus Pius in 148 and Philip I in 248 followed Claudius in celebrating the 900- and 1000-year anniversaries of Rome's foundation, respectively. These involved rituals at the Temple of Venus and Roma instead of the Tarentum, and the date was probably changed to April 21, the Parilia.\n\nBy 314, 110 years from the Games of Septimius Severus, the Christian Constantine I was emperor, and no Secular Games were held. The pagan historian Zosimus (\"fl.\" c. 498–518), who wrote the most detailed extant account of the Games, blamed this neglect of the traditional ritual for the decline of the Roman Empire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109665", "title": "Jean Wallace", "text": "Jean Wallace\n\nJean Wallace (born Jean Walasek or Wallasek; October 12, 1923 – February 14, 1990) was an American television and film actress.\n\nWallace was born in Chicago to John T. Walaszek and Mary A. Walaszek (née Sharkey). Her grandfather Karol Walaszek, immigrated from Galicia. She was Polish-American.\n\nWallace was a graduate of Austin High School in Chicago. In 1940, the family moved to Hollywood.\n\nWallace began her career as a model. She made her screen debut when she was 17. Her first film, in which she had a bit part, was \"Louisiana Purchase\" (1941).\n\nBy the time she was 18, she had worked as a dancer and singer, including being a showgirl employed by Earl Carroll.\n\nWallace married her \"Jigsaw\" co-star Franchot Tone on October 18, 1941, in Yuma, Arizona. They divorced in 1948. They had two sons, Pascal \"Pat\" Franchot Tone born July 29, 1943 and Thomas Jefferson Tone born September 16, 1945.\n\nIn 1950, she had a marriage and annulment to former US Army Captain Jim Lloyd Randall. Wallace was also married to actor Cornel Wilde, who was her co-star in \"The Big Combo\", \"Lancelot and Guinevere\" and \"Beach Red,\" from 1951 to 1981. She and Wilde had one son, Cornel Wilde, born on December 19, 1967. \n\nWallace attempted suicide in 1946 with sleeping pills, and in 1949 with a self-inflicted knife wound.\n\nA Democrat, she supported the campaign of Adlai Stevenson during the 1952 presidential election.\n\nWallace died of a gastrointestinal hemorrhage on February 14, 1990. She is buried in Hollywood Forever Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109666", "title": "Remote keyless system", "text": "Remote keyless system\n\nA smart entry system is an electronic lock that controls access to a building or vehicle without using a traditional mechanical key. The term \"keyless entry system\" originally meant a lock controlled by a keypad located at or near the driver's door, which required entering a predetermined (or self-programmed) numeric code. Such systems now have a hidden touch-activated keypad and are still available on certain Ford and Lincoln models.\n\nThe term remote keyless system (RKS), also called keyless entry or remote central locking, refers to a lock that uses an electronic remote control as a key which is activated by a handheld device or automatically by proximity.\n\nWidely used in automobiles, an RKS performs the functions of a standard car key without physical contact. When within a few yards of the car, pressing a button on the remote can lock or unlock the doors, and may perform other functions. A remote keyless system can include both a remote keyless entry system (RKE), which unlocks the doors, and a remote keyless ignition system (RKI), which starts the engine.\n\nOne of the first introductions was in 1980 on the Ford Thunderbird, Mercury Cougar, Continental Mark VI, and Lincoln Town Car, which Ford called Keyless Entry System (later renamed SecuriCode). It was a keypad on the driver-side exterior door above the door handle. It consisted of a keypad with five buttons that when the code was entered, would unlock the driver's door, with subsequent code entries to unlock all doors, and the trunk. Nissan offered the same technology on the Nissan Maxima and Nissan Fairlady beginning in 1984, essentially using the same approach as Ford, with the addition of being able to roll the windows down and open the optional moonroof from outside the vehicle on the door handle installed keypad on both the driver's and front passengers door.\n\nThe remote keyless systems using a handheld transmitter first began appearing on the French made Renault Fuego in 1982, and as an option on several American Motors vehicles in 1983, including the Renault Alliance. The feature gained its first widespread availability in the U.S. on several General Motors vehicles in 1989.\n\nKeyless remotes contain a short-range radio transmitter, and must be within a certain range, usually 5–20 meters, of the car to work. When a button is pushed, it sends a coded signal by radio waves to a receiver unit in the car, which locks or unlocks the door. Most RKEs operate at a frequency of 315 MHz for North America-made cars and at 433.92 MHz for European, Japanese and Asian cars. Modern systems since the mid-1990s implement encryption as well as rotating entry codes to prevent car thieves from intercepting and spoofing the signal. Earlier systems used infrared instead of radio signals to unlock the vehicle, such as systems found on Mercedes-Benz, BMW and other manufacturers.\n\nThe system signals that it has either locked or unlocked the car usually through some fairly discreet combination of flashing vehicle lamps, a distinctive sound other than the horn, or some usage of the horn itself. A typical setup on cars is to have the horn or other sound chirp twice to signify that the car has been unlocked, and chirp once to indicate the car has been locked. For example, Toyota, Scion, and Lexus use a chirp system to signify the car being locked/unlocked. While two beeps means that driver's door is unlocked, four beeps means all doors are unlocked. One long beep is for the trunk or power tailgate. One short beep signifies that the car is locked and alarm is set.\n\nThe functions of a remote keyless entry system are contained on a key fob or built into the ignition key handle itself. Buttons are dedicated to locking or unlocking the doors and opening the trunk or tailgate. On some minivans, the power sliding doors can be opened/closed remotely. Some cars will also close any open windows and roof when remotely locking the car. Some remote keyless fobs also feature a red panic button which activates the car alarm as a standard feature. Further adding to the convenience, some cars' engines with remote keyless ignition systems can be started by the push of a button on the key fob (useful in cold weather), and convertible tops can be raised and lowered from outside the vehicle while it's parked.\n\nOn cars where the trunk release is electronically operated, it can be triggered to open by a button on the remote. Conventionally, the trunk springs open with the help of hydraulic struts or torsion springs, and thereafter must be lowered manually. Premium models, such as SUVs and estates with tailgates, may have a motorized assist that can both open and close the tailgate for easy access and remote operation.\n\nFor offices, or residences, the system can also be coupled with the security system, garage door opener or remotely activated lighting devices.\n\nMost keyless systems use a technique called rolling code to avoid replay attacks, in which the open command is intercepted to be used by a thief at a later time. In the rolling code, a pseudorandom number generator is used to generate a different unlock sequence to be sent each time the car is unlocked.\n\nRemote keyless entry fobs emit a radio frequency with a designated, distinct digital identity code. Inasmuch as \"programming\" fobs is a proprietary technical process, it is typically performed by the automobile manufacturer. In general, the procedure is to put the car computer in 'programming mode'. This usually entails engaging the power in the car several times while holding a button or lever. It may also include opening doors, or removing fuses. The procedure varies amongst various makes, models, and years. Once in 'programming mode' one or more of the fob buttons is depressed to send the digital identity code to the car's onboard computer. The computer saves the code and the car is then taken out of programming mode.\n\nAs RKS fobs have become more prevalent in the automobile industry a secondary market of unprogrammed devices has sprung up. Some websites sell steps to program fobs for individual models of cars as well as accessory kits to remotely activate other car devices.\n\nOn early (1998-2012) keyless entry remotes, the remotes can be individually programmed by the user, by pressing a button on the remote, and starting the vehicle. However, newer (2013+) keyless entry remotes require dealership or locksmith programming via a computer with special software . The Infrared keyless entry systems offered user programming, though radio frequency keyless entry systems mostly require dealer programming.\n\nSome cars have a proximity system that is triggered if a transponder car key is within a certain distance of the car and is sometimes called hands-free or advanced key.\n\nOne of the earliest systems was found on the 1993 Chevrolet Corvette (called the Passive Keyless Entry System) and in Mercedes-Benz vehicles from 1998. \n\nToday, this system is commonly found on a variety of vehicles, and although the exact method of operation differs between makes and models, their operation is generally similar: a vehicle can be unlocked without the driver needing to physically push a button on the key fob to lock or unlock the car and is also able to start or stop the ignition without physically having to insert the key and turning the ignition. Instead, the vehicle senses that the key (which may be located in the user's pocket, purse, etc.) is approaching the vehicle.\n\nA simpler version of the smart key system is the engine immobiliser, involving a security key system embedded into most modern vehicle's keys. A small chip rests on the vehicle's key or under the plastic key cover. When any key is inserted into the ignition, the ignition is coded. The key sends its security code to the ignition, which also has its own security code, and if the security codes match, the vehicle will start when the key is turned. However, if the key codes do NOT match, the vehicle will NOT start when the key is turned. Some early examples of this technology include Chrysler Corporation's Sentry Key System, or General Motors's PASSKey System.\n\nSome security keys can be programmed by the user, though most of these keys have to be programmed by a dealership or locksmith via a computer. It was not possible to copy these keys at a hardware store or auto parts store, but nowadays it is.\n\nKeyless ignition does not by default provide better security. In October 2014, it was found that some insurers in the United Kingdom would not insure certain vehicles with keyless ignition unless there were additional mechanical locks in place due to weaknesses in the keyless system.\n\nNews media have reported cases where it is suspected that criminals managed to open cars by using signal boosters to trick vehicles into thinking that their keyless entry fobs were close by even when they were far away, though they have not reported that any such devices have been found. The articles speculate that keeping fobs in aluminum foil or a freezer when not in use can prevent criminals from exploiting this vulnerability.\n\nIn 2015, it was reported that Samy Kamkar had built an inexpensive electronic device about the size of a wallet that could be concealed on or near a locked vehicle to capture a single keyless entry code to be used at a later time to unlock the vehicle. The device transmits a jamming signal to block the vehicle's reception of rolling code signals from the owner's fob, while recording these signals from both of his two attempts needed to unlock the vehicle. The recorded first code is sent to the vehicle only when the owner makes the second attempt, while the recorded second code is retained for future use. Kamkar stated that this vulnerability had been widely known for years to be present in many vehicle types but was previously undemonstrated. A demonstration was done during DEF CON 23.\n\nActual thefts targeting luxury cars based on the above exploit have been reported when the key fob is near the front of the home. Several workaround can prevent such exploits, including placing the key fob in a tin box. A criminal ring stole about 100 vehicles using this technique in Southern and Eastern Ontario. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109671", "title": "The Moose (M*A*S*H)", "text": "The Moose (M*A*S*H)\n\n\"The Moose\" is an episode of the television series \"M*A*S*H\". It was the fifth episode broadcast and aired on October 15, 1972, and repeated May 27, 1973. It was written by Laurence Marks and directed by Hy Averback.\n\nGuest cast is Paul Jenkins as Sergeant Baker, Virginia Ann Lee as Young-Hi, Timothy Brown as Spearchucker Jones, Craig Jue as Benny, Barbara Brownell as Lt. Jones, Patrick Adiarte as Ho-Jon.\n\nSergeant Baker stops by the 4077th with his \"moose\"; a teenage Korean girl named Young-Hi whom he \"bought\". Obsessed with freeing the girl, Hawkeye wins her from Baker in a card game, but now Young-Hi thinks she belongs to Hawkeye. \n\nSergeant Baker stops by the 4077th with his \"moose\"; a Korean girl named Young-Hi, whom he \"bought\" from her family for $500.00. The term \"moose\" derives from the Japanese word for daughter, \"musume\", and refers to female servants of servicemen, who may be treated almost as slaves. Hawkeye Pierce is outraged and tries to convince Baker to let the girl go free. Eventually, he plays poker with Baker (and cheats with a little help from Radar.)\n\nBaker agrees to trade Young-Hi for the debt he runs up. However, he explains to Young-Hi that she now belongs to Hawkeye, rather than that she is free (as was Pierce's intent). Pierce first attempts to get rid of Young-Hi by sending her on a truck to Seoul, but she gets off when the truck stops for gas and hitchhikes back to the 4077th.\n\nEventually Pierce, Jones and McIntyre decide to \"demoosify\" Young-Hi and teach her how to be a person who deserves to be well-treated and not subservient. They soon meet the head of Young-Hi's family and discover that he is Young-Hi's little brother Benny and that he immediately plans to sell her again. Initially, Young-Hi agrees with Benny out of loyalty to her family but then returns, having told Benny to \"shove off\".\n\nIn the end, Young-Hi is enrolled in convent school in Seoul. In the last scene of the episode, Pierce, McIntyre and Spearchucker Jones receive a letter from her.\n"}
{"id": "2109685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109685", "title": "RKE", "text": "RKE\n\nRKE may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2109686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109686", "title": "Wood Norton, Worcestershire", "text": "Wood Norton, Worcestershire\n\nWood Norton Hall is a Grade II listed Victorian stately home to the northwest of Evesham, Worcestershire, England. It was the last home in England of Prince Philippe, Duke of Orléans, who claimed the throne of France. Used by the British Broadcasting Corporation during World War II as a station for listening to enemy radio broadcasts and an emergency broadcasting centre, it became the accommodation for the BBC's engineering training college that grew up in its grounds. The BBC retained purpose-built facilities in the grounds for technical training after selling the Hall, which became a hotel.\n\nThe site of a dwelling since medieval times, Wood Norton was once the home of Prince Philippe, Duke of Orléans, the last pretender to the throne of France. The 'Great Gates' at the entrance of the house had once stood before York House in Twickenham, the Duke's previous home .\n\nIts position - hidden within acres of remote woodland on a hill facing south - made it ideal for official use in the event of war. In early 1939, the BBC bought the site so that it could relocate its operations away from London and other urban centres in the event of hostilities. A number of temporary buildings were quickly erected around the hall to provide an emergency broadcasting centre. A dozen studios were built, and by 1940 Wood Norton was one of the largest broadcasting centres in Europe with an average output of 1,300 programmes a week.\n\nMany refugees from all over war-torn Europe were recruited and then billeted in Evesham and the surrounding area; they became specialised broadcasters to the Resistance and special operations groups around Europe sending their secret messages encrypted into what appeared to be normal entertainment broadcasts.\n\nIt was the home of the BBC's Monitoring Service from August 1939 until early 1943, when Monitoring moved to Caversham Park and Crowsley Park, near Reading. The move was made to release space at Wood Norton so that it could become the BBC's main broadcasting centre, should London have to be evacuated because of the threat from Germany's V-weapons. A fire during the war destroyed the Hall's upper storeys in 1942. The roof was repaired and reinstated by the BBC Architectural & Civil Engineering Department in 1991–92.\n\nAfter the war, Wood Norton became the home of the BBC Engineering Training Department. During the Cold War it was designated as a broadcasting centre in the event of a nuclear attack.\n\nIn March 2013 the BBC vacated Television Centre (TVC) in West London, requiring strategic relocation of operations. The Satellite Earth Station (SES) was constructed at Wood Norton to relocate shared infrastructure previously housed in TVC.\n\nIn 1966, and into the late 1960s, Bredon Wing was built as an addition to the training centre, containing a nuclear fallout bunker beneath it. A mast was constructed on top of the hill behind the hall and was fitted with an SHF dish (microwave link) to Daventry radio transmitting station (referred to in 1975 Cabinet papers released 30 December 2005).\n\nTwo VHF yagi aerials were fitted to receive signals from the transmitters at Holme Moss and Llandrindod Wells. Later, another SHF link was fitted to the Pebble Mill studios in Birmingham, to provide reliable TV reception for the technical training facilities as the local terrestrial TV signal was poor.\n\nThe bunker (known as PAWN – Protected Area Wood Norton) and mast, and many other installations, were referred to as \"deferred facilities\" within the BBC. Few staff knew their full extent and those that did had to be vetted by the Ministry of Defence and sign the Official Secrets Act (OSA). However, in the 1970s when training studio space was at a premium at Wood Norton, the bunker was opened up and made available for general training use. Staff on site were disappointed to discover that it was only two storeys deep.\n\nThe \"deferred facilities\" were modified many times over the years. In the 1970s they were extended and updated to be able to provide the \"Wartime Broadcasting Service\".\n\nThe estate has been the home of the BBC's Engineering Training Department since the war, now branded as part of the College of Technology, a constituent of the wider BBC Academy. Training staff run residential courses on-site, travel to deliver courses at other sites in the UK, and design interactive courses for use on the BBC's internal network.\n\nBecause of its convenience as a BBC facility, Wood Norton was used for some of the filming of the 1970 \"Doctor Who\" serial \"Spearhead from Space\". The filming included location shots inside the secret nuclear bunker (the scenes of Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart's office and The Doctor's laboratory), and all involved with the shooting in those areas were required to abide by the Official Secrets Act and disclose no information about the bunker's existence. It was later used for all of the location filming of the 1974 \"Doctor Who\" serial \"Robot\"\n\nUnder the leadership of Greg Dyke and Resources director Mike Southgate, the BBC sold off the residential accommodation used by trainees, which had been built by the corporation 20 years previously.\n\nWood Norton Hall itself was a privately owned hotel and conference centre, but closed in 2005, reopening under new management the following year. The hotel finally ceased trading in 2010, was sold to a London investor in 2011, underwent a £4m renovation and reopened in November 2012 as a member of the Bespoke Hotels Group, however is no longer affiliated with the group. The BBC retains its Technical and Operational Training Centre in the extensive grounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109691", "title": "Seminary Hill School", "text": "Seminary Hill School\n\nSeminary Hill School (officially Seminary Hill Elementary School) was a public school located at 20 Seminary Hill in West Lebanon, New Hampshire, United States. In 2015, the school ceased its role as an elementary school and became the offices for SAU employees. It is part of the Lebanon School District (SAU#88). \n\nThe school taught grades 3–6 and had a total of approximately 175 students in the 2004–2005 school year. It was first built in 1854 under the direction of William Tilden as Tilden Female Seminary. It then operated as the high school for students who lived exclusively in West Lebanon, while Lebanon students attended Lebanon High School. The last class to graduate from West Lebanon High School in this building was the class of 1961. After that, grades 9-12 attended Lebanon High School.\n"}
{"id": "2109699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109699", "title": "Nanking Safety Zone", "text": "Nanking Safety Zone\n\nThe Nanking Safety Zone (; Japanese: 南京安全区 \"Nankin Anzenku\", 南京安全地帯, \"Nankin Anzenchitai\") was a demilitarized zone for Chinese civilians set up on the eve of the Japanese breakthrough in the Battle of Nanking (December 13, 1937). Following the example of Jesuit Father Robert Jacquinot de Besange in Shanghai, the foreigners in Nanking created the Nanking Safety Zone, managed by the \"International Committee for the Nanking Safety Zone\" led by German businessman and Nazi party member, John Rabe. The zone and the activities of the International Committee were responsible for saving the lives of 250,000 Chinese civilians during the Nanking Massacre.\n\nMany Westerners were living in the city at that time, conducting trade or on missionary trips. As the Japanese army began to approach Nanking, the Chinese government departed, moving to the transitional capital of Hankow. Most of the foreigners in Nanking fled the city as well. However, a small number of Westerners chose to remain behind. It is not clear exactly how many Westerners stayed behind and who they were. The number reported ranges from 20 to 30. David Askew has analyzed various sources who provide differing numbers of foreigners remaining in the city on different dates. According to Askew, the best estimate seems to be that there were 27 foreigners in the city, five of whom were journalists who left the city on December 16, a few days after it fell to the Japanese army.\n\nOther than these five journalists, the other Westerners who remained in Nanking were businessmen, physicians and missionaries. Almost all of these were members of either the International Committee for the Nanking Safety Zone or the International Red Cross Committee of Nanking.\n\nThe Westerners who remained behind established the Nanking Safety Zone, which was composed of a score of refugee camps that occupied an area of about 3.4 miles (8.6 km). The Safety Zone was bordered by roads on all four sides, and had an area of approximately 3.86 km, with 25 refugee camps centered around the U.S. Embassy. This is approximately the same size as Central Park in New York.\n\nTo coordinate their efforts, the Westerners formed a committee, called the International Committee for the Nanking Safety Zone. German businessman John Rabe was elected as its leader, partly because of his status as a member of the Nazi party and the existence of the German-Japanese bilateral Anti-Comintern Pact. The International Committee for the Nanking Safety Zone was formed on November 22, 1937.\n\nThe City of Nanking affirmed the existence of the Safety Zone, sent cash and food, and staffed security personnel in the zone. On December 1, 1937, the mayor of Nanking, Ma Chao-chun, ordered all Chinese citizens remaining in Nanking to move into the \"Safety Zone\" and then fled the city.\n\nThe Japanese army did not recognize its existence, but they agreed not to attack parts of the city that did not contain Chinese military forces. The members of the International Committee for the Nanking Safety Zone managed to persuade the Chinese government to move all their troops out of the area.\n\nAccording to Miner Searle Bates, one of the American missionaries, \"The Chinese authorities agreed to the idea of the Zone, though the military were naturally reluctant to move out of the area before the very last minute.\" Bates described the Japanese position on the Safety Zone in this way, \"The Japanese authorities never formally recognized the Zone, but did say that they would not attack an area which was not occupied by Chinese troops. On this narrow margin of agreement, the Chinese promise to evacuate the area and the Japanese statement that they would not intentionally attack an unoccupied place, the Safety Zone was finally put through.\"\n\nThe Japanese army did not subject the Safety Zone to concentrated air bombardment or shelling. Only a few shells landed in the Zone throughout the siege, which wounded about 40 refugees.\n\nThe Japanese did respect the Zone to an extent; no shells entered that part of the city leading up to the Japanese occupation except a few stray shots. During the chaos following the attack of the city, some were killed in the Safety Zone, but the atrocities in the rest of the city were far greater by all accounts.\n\nJapanese soldiers committed atrocities in the Safety Zone that were part of the much larger Nanking Massacre. The International Committee appealed a number of times to the Japanese army, with John Rabe using his credentials as a Nazi Party member, but to no avail. From time to time, the Japanese would forcefully enter the Safety Zone, carry off a few hundred men and women, and either summarily execute them or rape and then kill them. The Japanese army claimed that there were guerrillas in the Safety Zone due to the fact that anyone not wearing a uniform could enter.\n\nIn late January 1938, the Japanese army forced all refugees in the Safety Zone to return home, and claimed to have \"restored order\". On February 18, 1938, the Nanking Safety Zone International Committee was forcibly renamed \"Nanking International Rescue Committee\", and the Safety Zone effectively ceased to function. The last refugee camps were closed in May 1938. John Rabe and his International Committee were credited with saving 200,000–250,000 lives despite the ongoing massacre.\nAfter George Fitch departed, Hubert Lafayette Sone was elected Administrative Director of the Nanjing International Relief Committee.\n\nBefore the normalization of relations between China and the West, the Westerners who remained behind in Nanking to run the Nanking Safety Zone were vigorously criticized by the Chinese government. For example, a group of researchers at Nanking University in the 1960s condemned the members of the Western community in Nanking for turning a blind eye to the Japanese atrocities in the city and misused the primary sources to suggest that the Westerners had cooperated in the Japanese slaughter of Chinese. As Chinese concerns about \"American imperialism\" diminished, and as Japan became the target of official vitriol (partly at least because of the highly politicized and contentious issue of Japanese textbooks), views in China dramatically changed. Westerners were now depicted as active resistors rather than active collaborators.\n\nHowever, certain right-wing and nationalist Japanese authors and politicians claim that along with the Nanking Massacre, the Safety Zone never existed. The museum of the Yasukuni shrine omits any mention of the Nanking massacre and proclaims that \"The Japanese established a safety zone for Chinese civilians and made a special effort to protect historical and cultural sites. Inside the city, residents were once again able to live their lives in peace.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109701", "title": "Daniela Silivaș", "text": "Daniela Silivaș\n\nDaniela Viorica Silivaș-Harper (; born 9 May 1972), best known as Daniela Silivaș, is a Romanian former artistic gymnast who is most famous for winning six medals (three gold, two silver, and one bronze) at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul. In her five-year tenure as a member of the Romanian senior national team, Silivaș earned six individual World Championships titles as well as the 1987 European Championships all-around title. She was the only gymnast, male or female, to medal in every single event at the 1988 Olympics, where she earned seven perfect 10 scores. She was known for her technical excellence, difficult routines, charming performances, and artistic flair.\n\nIn 1989, Silivaș's training was hampered by a knee injury and by the closure of the Deva National Training Center during the Romanian Revolution. She retired in 1991 and moved to the United States, where she is now a gymnastics coach. In 2002, she was inducted into the International Gymnastics Hall of Fame.\n\nSilivaș was born in Deva, Romania, on 9 May 1972. She began gymnastics at age 6 and was coached by Béla Károlyi for six months before his defection in 1981. Silivaș won her school's championships in 1980, and was the Romanian junior national champion in 1981 and 1982. She continued to compete in various junior meets through 1984, with a particularly strong showing at the 1984 Junior European Championships, where she won the balance beam title, earned silver medals on the uneven bars and floor exercise, and placed fourth in the all-around. At the 1984 Junior Friendship Tournament (Druzhba), she won gold medals in the all-around and uneven bars over a strong field that included future Olympic and World medalists Svetlana Boguinskaya, Aurelia Dobre, and Dagmar Kersten.\n\nIn 1985, the Romanian Gymnastics Federation changed Silivaș's birth year from 1972 to 1970 to make her age eligible for the World Championships in Montreal. The falsification was suspected by some, but was never proven until Silivaș herself revealed it in 2002. She stated that she was never consulted about the matter: officials simply gave her a new passport, called her attention to the birth date, and informed her that she was now 15.\n\nAlthough she was only 13 at the 1985 Worlds, Silivaș scored a perfect 10 en route to capturing the balance beam title, defeating the reigning Olympic champion, her teammate Ecaterina Szabo, in the process. She finished behind reigning co-world champion Yelena Shushunova in the individual all-around at the 1986 World Cup and quickly established herself as the leader of the Romanian gymnastics team.\n\nSilivaș's greatest triumph took place at the 1987 European Gymnastics Championships in Moscow, where she won the individual all-around, uneven bars, balance beam and floor exercise titles in addition to taking a silver medal on the vault. At the time, every dominant nation in women's gymnastics was located in Europe, and winning the European title over a deep field of Soviet, East German, and Bulgarian gymnasts was a major victory.\nAt the 1987 World Championships in Rotterdam, Silivaș helped the Romanian squad win the team title, defeating the Soviet team for the first time since 1979. She was a favorite for the all-around title, but—hampered by low scores carried over from the team optionals, where she had fallen off the balance beam, as well as a shaky uneven bars routine in the all-around—she only managed to win the bronze medal behind teammate Aurelia Dobre and Shushunova. In the event finals, she won gold medals on the uneven bars and floor exercise.\n\nAt the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, the Romanian team finished second to the Soviets. Individually, Silivaș was one of the favorites, along with Dobre and Shushunova, for the all-around title.\n\nThe all-around was a hotly anticipated battle between Silivaș, the technician and dancer, and Shushunova, the powerhouse and tumbler. Both received scores of 10.0 on floor. Shushunova received her second 10.0 on vault; Silivaș received hers on the uneven bars. Silivaș was in the lead entering the final rotation, but a score of 9.950 on the vault dropped her to second place, 0.025 behind Shushunova.\n\nSilivaș's score on vault came under particular scrutiny. Of the six judges on the panel, three gave her first vault a 10.0; two others gave her 9.9s. However, the Soviet judge on the panel, Nellie Kim, gave her a 9.8. On her second vault, Silivaș took a hop on her landing; all six judges gave her 9.9s. Silivaș was visibly upset after Shushunova's scores were posted and at the medal ceremony; according to a report in \"International Gymnast,\" she said, \"After my last vault, I thought maybe I should be the champion.\" However, she did not argue the results publicly. Her former coach, Bela Károlyi, noted, \"This kid had the honesty and decency to shut up. She didn’t want to say 'I’m better' because she knows Shushunova is the Olympic champion, but she couldn’t praise a rival. So she just didn’t say a word. These kids have more decency than all the judges and coaches in the world.\"\n\nIn spite of the controversy, no score protests were ever filed by Silivaș, her coaches, or her federation, and no disciplinary measures were taken against any of the judges. In addition, even though Kim's first mark was considered questionable by many fans, it did not figure into Silivaș's final score: in 1988, the highest and lowest marks of the panel were dropped, and the final score was the average of the remaining four marks. Also, in spite of her vault score, Silivaș's all-around total was higher than that of Shushunova: if the competition had been held under the New Life rule, she would have won. In the third rotation, Shushunova was awarded 10s for her floor exercise by every judge except the Romanian judge, who gave her a 9.9, which did not count towards her final score.\n\nSilivaș returned in the event finals to win gold medals on the uneven bars, floor, and beam, as well as bronze on vault behind Soviet Svetlana Boguinskaya (gold) and teammate Gabriela Potorac (silver). In doing this, she became the only gymnast in Seoul to win medals in every event (team, all-around, and the four apparatus finals). She also equaled Nadia Comăneci's record of seven perfect 10 scores in a single Olympic Games.\n\nDespite a serious knee injury in 1989, Silivaș successfully defended her floor exercise title at the European Championships and won three additional medals. In the all-around, she placed second to Svetlana Boguinskaya. Still injured, she went to the 1989 World Championships, where she placed 12th in the all-around after falling from the balance beam. In event finals, however, she captured three more gold medals on the bars, beam, and floor.\n\nAfter several more competitions in 1989, Silivaș underwent surgery on her knee. She intended to start training again afterwards, but the National Training Center at Deva was closed during the Romanian Revolution of 1989, putting an early end to her career.\n\nSilivaș retired from gymnastics in 1991 and moved to the United States, settling in Atlanta. In 2002, she was inducted into the International Gymnastics Hall of Fame; she still holds the record as the youngest gymnast to receive this honor.\n\nSilivaș works full-time as a gymnastics coach in Sandy Springs, Georgia. In May 2003, she married Scott Harper, a sports management graduate living in the Atlanta area. The couple have three children: two sons, Jadan Scott (born April 8, 2004) and Rylan Bryce Harper (born October 2009), and a daughter, Ava Luciana (born November 8, 2005). They live in Marietta, Georgia.\n\nThe hallmarks of Silivaș's gymnastics were her impeccable form and execution, difficulty, and expressive dance. Many of the skills she performed in the 1988 Olympics still carry high difficulty ratings in the \"Code of Points\" today including the \"Silivas\" on floor, which is a double-twisting double back tucked somersault and has the third highest difficulty assignment of \"H\" in women's gymnastics. Between 1985 and 1988, the highlights of Silivaș's routines included:\n\nVault\n\n\nUneven bars\n\n\nBalance beam\n\n\nFloor exercise\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109708", "title": "Sorted for E's &amp; Wizz", "text": "Sorted for E's &amp; Wizz\n\n\"Sorted for E's & Wizz\" is a song by the English band Pulp. Taken from their UK number one album \"Different Class\", it was released as a double A-side single with \"Mis-Shapes\" in September 1995 and reached number two on the UK Singles Chart as well as number six in Ireland. It was Pulp's second successive number-two UK hit in 1995.\n\nThe song describes going to a rave \"somewhere in a field in Hampshire\", taking drugs (\"E's and Wizz\" refers to ecstasy and speed, respectively). \"Getting sorted\" means being adequately provided for; in this case, having procured drugs for a concert. The latter part of the song discusses the emptiness of the experience and the comedown the next morning: \nIn the middle of the night, it feels alright<br>\nBut then tomorrow morning, oh, then you come down\nThe song was first performed at the Glastonbury Festival in 1995, where Cocker explained his inspiration. \"'Sorted for E's and wizz' is a phrase a girl that I met in Sheffield once told me... and she went to see The Stone Roses at Spike Island and I said \"what do you remember about it?\". And she said \"Well there were all these blokes walking around saying 'Is everybody sorted for E's and wizz?'\" And that's all she remembered about it and I thought it was a good phrase.\"\n\nBefore the release of the single, the \"Daily Mirror\" printed a front-page story headed \"Ban This Sick Stunt\" alongside a story by Kate Thornton which said the song was \"pro-drugs\" and called for the single to be banned. The pre-release single had an inlay which Thornton alleged showed how to make an origami 'wrap' or parcel with the intention of \"offering teenage fans a DIY guide on hiding illegal drugs\". In an interview with music paper \"NME\" on the same day, Thornton was quoted as saying: \"We wanted to see the sleeve pulled and we thought it was a crusade we would take up single-handedly. I think the sleeve is something that will concern our readers, although it may not concern yours.\" The band agreed to change the artwork, while continuing to assert that Thornton had misinterpreted the meaning of both the sleeve art and the song's lyrics. Lead singer Jarvis Cocker released a statement two days later saying: \"...'Sorted' is not a pro-drugs song... Nowhere on the sleeve does it say you are supposed to put drugs in here but I understand the confusion... I wouldn't want anything we do to encourage people to take drugs because they aren't a solution or an answer to anything. I don't think anyone who listens to Sorted would come away thinking it had a pro-drugs message. If they did I would say they had misinterpreted it.\" The \"Daily Mirror\" printed his statement, but he was unhappy that the front-page article written by Thornton contained the misquote \"I don't want the sleeve to get in the way of what the record is saying, which is an anti-drugs message\", which he felt oversimplified the song's meaning once again. He also criticised Thornton's decision to contact the father of a victim of an ecstasy-related death for a response. The \"Daily Mirror\" campaign continued, publishing their readers' response to a poll to have the song itself banned. The original sleeve was replaced with a plain white sleeve once the initial pressing had sold out.\n\nPre-release orders reached over 200,000, according to Nick Rowe, marketing director for Island Records, the biggest pre-release total in the label's history to that date. The single reached number two on the UK Single Charts and number six in Ireland.\n\nThe furore surrounding the single was spoofed by Chris Morris in the Channel 4 satirical series \"Brass Eye\".\n\nAll songs written and composed by Jarvis Cocker, Nick Banks, Steve Mackey, Russell Senior, Candida Doyle and Mark Webber; except where noted. The 12\" was released in 1996 while the 7\" was released in November 1996.\n\n7\" vinyl / cassette single\n\nCD single one / 12\" vinyl\n\nCD single two \n\n\nAll entries charted with \"Mis-Shapes\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2109709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109709", "title": "Corino Andrade", "text": "Corino Andrade\n\nMário Corino da Costa Andrade (10 June 1906 in Moura – 16 June 2005 in Porto) was a leading twentieth century Portuguese neurologist and researcher who first described the familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy (FAP) syndrome that later came to be associated with his name (Corino de Andrade disease). \n\nCorino was a founder of the Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas Abel Salazar, a major bioscience research institute located in Porto.\n\nA staunch opponent of the Salazar regime, Andrade was imprisoned by the Portuguese Secret Police (PIDE) for belonging to a political group critical of the government. \n\nHe spent a great deal of time collaborating with scientists abroad and had a profound effect on the structure and organization of the current healthcare system in northern Portugal.\n"}
{"id": "2109722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109722", "title": "Coloratura soprano", "text": "Coloratura soprano\n\nA coloratura soprano is a type of operatic soprano voice that specializes in music that is distinguished by agile runs, leaps and trills.\n\nThe term \"coloratura\" refers to the elaborate ornamentation of a melody, which is a typical component of the music written for this voice. Within the coloratura category, there are roles written specifically for lighter voices known as lyric coloraturas and others for larger voices known as dramatic coloraturas. Categories within a certain vocal range are determined by the size, weight and color of the voice.\n\nA very agile light voice with a high upper extension, capable of fast vocal coloratura. Lyric coloraturas have a range of approximately middle C (C) to \"high F\" (F). Such a soprano is sometimes referred to as a soprano leggero if her vocal timbre has a slightly warmer quality. The soprano leggero also typically does not go as high as other coloraturas, peaking at a \"high E\" (E). Bel canto roles were typically written for this voice, and a wide variety of other composers have also written coloratura parts. Baroque music, early music and baroque opera also have many roles for this voice.\n\nA coloratura soprano with great flexibility in high-lying velocity passages, yet with great sustaining power comparable to that of a full spinto or dramatic soprano. Dramatic coloraturas have a range of approximately \"low B\" (B) to \"high F\" (F). Various dramatic coloratura roles have different vocal demands for the singer – for instance, the voice that can sing Abigail (\"Nabucco\", Verdi) is unlikely to also sing Lucia (\"Lucia di Lammermoor\", Donizetti), but a factor in common is that the voice must be able to convey dramatic intensity as well as flexibility. Roles written specifically for this kind of voice include the more dramatic Mozart and bel canto female roles and early Verdi. This is a rare vocal fach, as thick vocal cords are needed to produce the large, dramatic notes, which usually lessens the flexibility and acrobatic abilities of the voice.\n\nIn rare instances, some coloratura sopranos are able to sing \"in altissimo\" above high F (F). This type of singer is sometimes referred to as a \"soprano acuto sfogato\".\n\nAlthough both lyric and dramatic coloraturas can be acuto sfogato sopranos, the primary attribute of the acuto sfogato soprano is an upper extension above F. Some pedagogues refer to these extreme high notes as the whistle register. \n\nVery few composers have ever written operatic roles for this voice type with actual notes scored above high F, so these singers typically display these extreme high notes through the use of interpolation in some of the operatic roles already cited above or in concert works. Examples of works that include G are the concert aria \"Popoli di Tessaglia!\"\" by Mozart, \"Esclarmonde\" by Massenet, and \"Postcard from Morocco\" by Dominick Argento. Thomas Adès composed a high A (A) for the character of Leticia Meynar in \"The Exterminating Angel\".\n\nThe soprano acuto sfogato is sometimes confused with the soprano sfogato, a singer (often mezzo-soprano) capable, by sheer industry or natural talent, of extending her upper range to encompass some of the coloratura soprano tessitura, though not the highest range above high F.\n\n\nNotes\nCited sources\n\nOther sources\n"}
{"id": "2109729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109729", "title": "Roland Dobbs", "text": "Roland Dobbs\n\n(Edwin) Roland Dobbs (2 December 1924 – 24 October 2016) was a British physicist, best known for his work in physical acoustics.\n\nHe was educated at Ilford County High School, Queen Elizabeth's School, Barnet and University College London. After gaining First Class Honours in Physics, he was called up for radar research for the Admiralty working there from 1943 to 19466. He returned to University College in 1946, completing a PhD: 'The Viscosity of Liquid Alkali Metals' in 1949. In 1977 he was awarded a D.Sc.\n\nHe was lecturer in Physics at Queen Mary and Westfield College (1949–1958), Fulbright Scholar in Applied Mathematics (1958–1959) and Associate Professor of Physics (1959–1960) at Brown University, AEI Fellow at the Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge (1960–1964), Professor and Head of Department of Physics, University of Lancaster (1964–1973), Head of Department of Physics at Bedford College, University of London (1973–1985) and Hildred Carlile Professor (1973–1990). Following the merger of Bedford and Royal Holloway College, he was Head of Department of Physics, Royal Holloway and Bedford New College, 1985-90. On his retirement, he became Emeritus Professor.\n\nHe held several visiting Professorships at Brown University, Rhode Island. U.S.A, Wayne State University, Michigan, U.S.A., University of Tokyo, Japan, University of Delhi, India and Cornell University, N.Y., U.S.A.\n\nHe was a member of the Physics Committee of the Science Research Council and of its Nuclear Physics Board, and a member of the Physics Committee of the Science and Engineering Research Council. He was Convener, Standing Conference of Professors of Physics of Great Britain, 1985–1988.\n\nHis research interests were in various areas of condensed matter physics: metals, superconductors, condensed inert gases, and latterly Helium 3 as a Fermi liquid and superfluid. He was noted for his research on the physics of helium-3, including its behavior as a superfluid, and published what was regarded as the definitive monograph 'Helium 3' in its various states in 2000 (Oxford University Press). Other publications include: Solid Helium Three (Oxford University Press): 1993, Electricity and Magnetism (Routledge & Kegan Paul):1984 and Basic Electromagnetism (Chapman & Hall): 1993.\n\nHe died on 24 October 2016 at the age of 91.\n"}
{"id": "2109740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109740", "title": "Marilyn Hall Patel", "text": "Marilyn Hall Patel\n\nMarilyn Hall Patel (born 1938) is a former United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.\n\nPatel was born Marilyn Hall in 1938, in Amsterdam, New York. She received a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1959 from Wheaton College and a Juris Doctor in 1963 from Fordham University School of Law. She worked in private practice in New York City from 1963 to 1967. She was an attorney with the Immigration and Naturalization Service of the United States Department of Justice in San Francisco, California from 1967 to 1971. She worked in private practice in San Francisco from 1971 to 1976. During this time she was counsel for the National Organization for Women and was a member of the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund's Board of Directors. She was an adjunct professor of law at the University of California, Hastings College of the Law from 1974 to 1976. She was a judge of the Oakland-Piedmont Municipal Court in California from 1976 to 1980.\n\nPatel was nominated by President Jimmy Carter on May 9, 1980, to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, to a new seat authorized by 71 Stat. 586. She was confirmed by the United States Senate on June 26, 1980, and received her commission on June 30, 1980. She served as Chief Judge from 1997 to 2004. Patel was both the first female judge and first female Chief Judge of the district. She assumed senior status on October 30, 2009. She retired on September 30, 2012.\n\nIn 1966 Patel married Indian-American banker Magan C. Patel. The couple have two sons. Patel won the California Women Lawyers' Rose Bird Memorial Award in 2003.\n\n\nIn a 1987 suit brought against the Fire Department of San Francisco (in which Patel harshly criticized the department), she issued a consent decree that enforced equal access to employment and advancement at the SFFD. In addition to clarifying the department's responsibilities with regard to the race of applicants, the decree ensured access for women to front-line firefighter roles.\n\nIn a 1999 ruling, Patel found that the layout of Macy's department stores violated the Americans with Disabilities Act, forcing the chain to significantly widen the aisles between merchandise. Many other retailers in other jurisdictions followed suit.\n\nIn 2003 she overturned the double murder conviction of Foster City, California native Glen William \"Buddy\" Nickerson. Nickerson had spent nineteen years on death row at San Quentin State Prison before new witnesses and evidence of police misconduct came to light. Ruling, Patel said it was \"more probable than not\" that Nickerson was innocent.\n\nPatel dismissed a 2005 suit brought by San Franciscan Wayne Ritchie against the US Government in which he alleged he had been harmed by the covert administration of LSD as part of the MKULTRA program.\n\nPatel determined that California's method of execution by lethal cyanide gas violates the Eighth Amendment prohibition of \"cruel and unusual punishments\" after privately viewing a recording of the execution of Robert Alton Harris. Her colleague, Judge Jeremy Fogel, has considered the constitutionality of California's lethal-injection protocol in a few cases, most notably \"Morales v. Tilton\".\n\nPatel's decisions in 2008 included one for the plaintiffs in \"Okinawa Dugong v. Gates\"/\"Okinawa Dugong v. Rumsfeld\", in which an environmental group sought to prevent the construction of a military runway on the island of Okinawa, citing the hazard this may pose to the okinawa dugong, a relative of the manatee and an endangered marine mammal.\n\nIn 2007 and 2008, Patel reviewed the standards employed by the Oakland Police Department for public strip and body cavity searches. Patel ruled that the O.P.D.'s policy permitting such searches in cases of reasonable suspicion was unconstitutionally low, permitting future searches only where there is probable cause—the same standard required to arrest suspects.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109743", "title": "Rui da Silva (DJ)", "text": "Rui da Silva (DJ)\n\nRui da Silva (born 25 April 1968) is a Portuguese producer and DJ, whose single \"Touch Me\" went to number one in the United Kingdom in 2001. At the time, he was the only Portuguese musician to have a hit in Britain, and hence was the first to score a chart-topping hit there.\n\nSilva started producing house music in 1992, just as club culture was getting established in Lisbon. Noticing the lack of dance music labels in Portugal, he teamed up with DJ Vibe to form Kaos Records, the first label in Portugal specialized in house and electronic music. \n\nHis first major hit (and Kaos' first release) was \"Não\", a track that sampled vocals from a Xutos & Pontapés track, released under the alias Doctor J. With DJ Vibe, he also formed the Underground Sound of Lisbon project in 1993. A year later, their track \"So Get Up\" (which features an original spoken-word poem by Californian songwriter Ithaka Darin Pappas) achieved worldwide fame after getting picked by the Tribal America label and support from Danny Tenaglia. Tenaglia also remixed the track. \n\nDuring his years at Kaos, Silva also worked with other artists, namely Luís Leite (under the guise of LL Project, creating the song \"Khine #3\") and Alex Santos (with whom he released the garage house track \"The Sax Theme\").\n\nIn 1999, he left Lisbon for London, in order to move from producing to DJing, and also to start working under his own name. Silva left Kaos Records, and produced his final collaborative effort as Underground Sound of Lisbon in 2001. In the UK, he founded Kismet Records, where he began producing a more progressive sound. He has released a number of tracks under his own name, as well as collaborative efforts with Chris Coco and Moshic.\n\nSilva has achieved some fame as a remixer, creating his own versions of Jennifer Lopez's \"Play\", Lighthouse Family's \"Happy\" and Yoko Ono's \"Walking on Thin Ice\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109745", "title": "Richard Mansfield", "text": "Richard Mansfield\n\nRichard Mansfield (24 May 1857 – 30 August 1907) was an English actor-manager best known for his performances in Shakespeare plays, Gilbert and Sullivan operas, and the play \"Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\".\n\nMansfield was born in Berlin and spent his early childhood on Heligoland, Germany, an island in the North Sea, then under British rule. His parents were Erminia Rudersdorff (1822–1882), a Russian-born operatic soprano, and Maurice Mansfield (died 1861), a British London-based wine merchant. His grandfather was the violinist Joseph Rudersdorff. Mansfield was educated at Derby School, in Derby, England, where he studied painting in London. His mother took him to America, where she was performing, but he returned to England at age 20. Finding that he could not make a living as a painter, he gained some success as a drawing-room entertainer, eventually moving into acting.\n\nHe first appeared on the stage at St. George's Hall, London, in the German Reed Entertainments and then turned to light opera, joining Richard D'Oyly Carte's Comedy Opera Company in 1879 to appear as Sir Joseph Porter in \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" on tour. He continued to play the Gilbert and Sullivan comic \"patter\" roles on tour in Britain until 1881. Mansfield created the role of Major General Stanley in the single copyright performance of \"The Pirates of Penzance\" in Paignton, England, in 1879. In addition to Sir Joseph and the Major General, in 1880 he also began to play John Wellington Wells in \"The Sorcerer\".\n\nHe left the D'Oyly Carte company in 1881, returned to London, and soon made his London debut in Jacques Offenbach's \"La boulangère\". He played several further roles in London and then travelled to America in 1882, where he made his Broadway debut as Dromez in Bucalossi's \"Les Manteaux Noirs\" with a D'Oyly Carte touring company. He then played the roles of Nick Vedder and Jan Vedder in another D'Oyly Carte production, Robert Planquette's \"Rip Van Winkle\" (1882).\n\nMansfield then appeared in Baltimore, Maryland, with another D'Oyly Carte troupe, as the Lord Chancellor in Gilbert and Sullivan's \"Iolanthe\" in December 1882. He suffered a bad ankle sprain only two days later, however, and left the production, returning to New York. In 1883 he joined A. M. Palmer's Union Square theatre company in New York, and made a hit as Baron Chevrial in \"A Parisian Romance\". Mansfield's portrayal of Chevrial, a \"realistic exhibition of depravity in dotage, by a young and comparatively unknown actor, was a surprise to the public, the managers, and the critics, and soon became a town topic.\" He next played the role of Ko-Ko, the Lord High Executioner in \"The Mikado\", in Boston in early 1886, his last production with a D'Oyly Carte cast.\n\nHe appeared successfully in an original play, \"Prince Karl\", and in several plays adapted from well-known stories, and his 1887 rendering of the title-characters in Thomas Russell Sullivan's \"Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\" for Palmer's company at Madison Square Theatre, only a year after publication of Robert Louis Stevenson's novella, created a profound impression. It was with this play that he made his London reputation during the 1888 season at the Lyceum Theatre, by invitation of Henry Irving. He also reprised the role in Broadway revivals.\n\nMansfield continued his acting career but had also begun a career as a theatrical manager in America in 1886. He produced the play \"Richard III\" in 1889 at the Globe Theatre. He was back on Broadway in 1890 in \"Beau Brummell\" (he reprised this role several times). He was one of the earliest to produce George Bernard Shaw's plays in America, appearing in 1894 as Bluntschli in \"Arms and the Man\", and as Dick Dudgeon in \"The Devil's Disciple\" in 1897. The latter production was the first Shaw production to turn a profit. As a manager and producer of plays, Mansfield was known for his lavish staging. He often produced, starred in (often opposite his wife), and directed plays on Broadway, sometimes also writing under the pseudonym Meridan Phelps. His other Broadway roles in the 1890s included Napoleon Bonaparte (1894), the title role in \"The Story of Rodion, the Student\" (1895), Sir John Sombras in \"Castle Sombras\" (1896), Eugen Courvoisier in \"The First Violin\" (1898 and 1988), the title role in \"Cyrano de Bergerac\" (1898 and 1899).\n\nHe began the new century on Broadway in the title role in \"King Henry V\" (1900), followed by the title character in \"Monsieur Beaucaire\", Brutus in \"Julius Caesar\" (1902), Karl Heinrich in \"Old Heidelberg\" (1903 and 1904), and roles in \"Ivan the Terrible\" (1904), \"A Parisian Romance\" (1904 and 1905), \"The Merchant of Venice\" (1905), \"Richard III\" (1905), Alceste in \"The Misanthrope\" (1905), \"The Scarlet Letter\" (1906) and \"Don Carlos\" (1906), among others. He continued to perform until his final year. One of his last performances, just a few months before his death, was the title role in a Broadway production of Henrik Ibsen's \"Peer Gynt\", the play's U.S. premiere.\n\nMansfield's popularity as a Shakespearean actor was immense. Upon his death, \"The New York Times\" stated: \"As an interpreter of Shakespeare, he had no living equal in his later days, as witnessed by the princely grace, the tragic force of his Richard, his thrilling acting in the tent scene of \"Caesar\", the soldierly dignity and eloquence of his Prince Hal, and the pathos of the prayer in that play. He was the greatest actor of his hour, and one of the greatest of all times.\"\n\nMansfield died in New London, Connecticut, in 1907 at age 50, from liver cancer.\n\nMansfield was performing in the London production of the \"Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde\" in 1888 during the time that Jack the Ripper was murdering prostitutes in London. One frightened theatre-goer wrote to the police accusing Mansfield of the murders because he could not believe that any actor could make so convincing a stage transformation from a gentleman into a mad killer without being homicidal. Mansfield attempted to gain public favour and stem the criticism that he was receiving by offering a performance of the comedy \"Prince Karl\" for the benefit of the Suffragan Bishop of London's home and refuge fund for reformed prostitutes.\n\nMansfield was married in 1892 to Beatrice Cameron (1868–1940), an actress. After their wedding, she was often referred to as Mrs Richard Mansfield by the press. In 1898 the couple had their only child, Richard Gibbs Mansfield (1898–1918). The younger Mansfield was an ambulance driver in France early during World War I, eagerly enlisting while underage (with his mother's consent). When America entered the war, he joined the U.S. Army and went to Texas to be part of an aviation unit. There he contracted meningitis and died in 1918.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109746", "title": "John Martel (novelist)", "text": "John Martel (novelist)\n\nJohn S. Martel is an American lawyer and novelist.\n\nA former Air Force pilot, Martel graduated with a law degree from Boalt Hall, the law school of the University of California, Berkeley. He joined the San Francisco firm of Farella Braun & Martel in 1964. He has tried over a hundred trials, losing just four, and consulted for the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office on both the O.J. Simpson and Menendez trials. He successfully represented Robert Mondavi in the landmark case of Mondavi vs. Mondavi. He obtained the then-highest verdict in Virginia history in V.I.P. vs. SCM Corporation and successfully defended the Hearst Corporation in a three-month federal jury case, Pacific Sun vs. The Chronicle, the Examiner, et al. He is a former Regent of the American College of Trial Lawyers and has been frequently listed in Best Lawyers of American and Super Lawyer magazine. The \"National Law Journal\" listed him among the Top Ten Trial Lawyers in America. In 1988, he was awarded the San Francisco City and County Certificate of Honor by the Board of Supervisors in recognition of his achievement as a national trial lawyer and his work in behalf of the homeless. He entered the world of fiction in 1988 with the courtroom thriller \"Partners\" and followed that in 1995 with \"Conflicts of Interest\". All of his novels, including \"The Alternate\" and \"Billy Strobe\" have been either regional or New York Times bestsellers. His most recent novel is \"The American Lawyer,\" published in 2012. A former college athlete, Martel won the 100 meter hurdles in the U.S. National Masters Track and Field Championships in 1997, running the fastest time in the world for his age group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109753", "title": "North Greenland Ice Core Project", "text": "North Greenland Ice Core Project\n\nThe drilling site of the North Greenland Ice Core Project (NGRIP or NorthGRIP) is near the center of Greenland (75.1 N, 42.32 W, 2917 m, ice thickness 3085). Drilling began in 1999 and was completed at bedrock in 2003. The cores are cylinders of ice 11 centimeters in diameter that were brought to the surface in 3.5-meter lengths. The NGRIP site was chosen to extract a long and undisturbed record stretching into the last glacial, and it succeeded. The site was chosen for a flat basal topography to avoid the flow distortions that render the bottom of the GRIP and GISP cores unreliable. Unusually, there is melting at the bottom of the NGRIP core - believed to be due to a high geothermal heat flux locally. This has the advantage that the bottom layers are less compressed by thinning than they would otherwise be: NGRIP annual layers at 105 kyr age are 1.1 cm thick, twice the GRIP thicknesses at equal age.\n\nThe NGRIP record helps to resolve a problem with the GRIP and GISP2 records - the unreliability of the Eemian Stage portion of the record. NGRIP covers 5 kyr of the Eemian, and shows that temperatures then were roughly as stable as the pre-industrial Holocene temperatures were. This is confirmed by sediment cores, in particular MD95-2042.\n\nIn 2003, NGRIP recovered what seem to be plant remnants nearly two miles below the surface, and they may be several million years old. \n\n\"Several of the pieces look very much like blades of grass or pine needles,\" said University of Colorado at Boulder geological sciences Professor James White, an NGRIP principal investigator. \"If confirmed, this will be the first organic material ever recovered from a deep ice-core drilling project,\" he said.\n\n\nThe original web page of the NGRIP project with field diaries and pictures.\nThe NGRIP project was run by an international consortium of scientists, and drilling and logistics were managed by what is now called Centre for Ice and Climate at the Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. This research centre maintains a web page about ice core research:\n"}
{"id": "2109774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109774", "title": "MacDermot Roe", "text": "MacDermot Roe\n\nMacDermot Roe (MacDiarmata Ruadh) is the name of a sept of the MacDermot Kings of Moylurg.\n\nTracing their origin to 1266, the MacDermots Roe (MacDiarmata Ruadh) of Ireland served as Biatachs General of the Kingdom of Connacht and were the principal patrons of the Irish composer Turlough Carolan, 1670–1738. The MacDermots Roe exemplify the role played by a leading Irish family under the old Gaelic order and its fate after the consolidation of English rule in the early 17th century.\n\nThe MacDermots Roe descend from Dermot Roe (the appellation Roe or Ruadh meaning red in Irish), grandson of Cormac MacDermot, King of Moylurg, 1218–1244. Moylurg was an ancient kingdom in what is now northern County Roscommon, Ireland and lay within the Kingdom of Connacht which included the modern counties of Galway, Leitrim, Mayo, Roscommon and Sligo. \nIn 1266, Dermot Roe MacDermot, the grandson of Cormac MacDermot, King of Moylurg, was blinded by the Aedh mac Felim Ua Conchobair, King of Connacht. Thereafter, Dermot was known as Dermot Dall (Dall meaning blind in Irish). Dermot Dall had a grandson, Dermot Roe whose descendants adopted the surname Mac (son of) Dermot Roe to distinguish themselves from other members of the MacDermot family.\n\nCormac MacDermot Roe, who was killed in battle in 1365, was the Biatach General of Connacht. As Biatach General, Cormac was responsible for the welfare of the poor and homeless and for the provision of food and shelter to travellers throughout Connacht. \nSome sources state that the position of Biatach included responsibility for providing victuals to the chief’s soldiers. Thus, MacDermot Roe’s responsibilities as Biatach General may have been comparable to a modern Quartermaster General, as well as, head of social welfare services.\n\nPositions of this nature in Ireland were passed down within a given family. For example, the head of the MacDermot family was the hereditary Marshal of Connacht. Such was the case with the MacDermots Roe and the office of Biatach General of Connacht.\n\nIn addition to their charitable duties as Biatachs General, the MacDermots Roe were church leaders serving as bishops, abbots and priors. Additionally, in 1385, the MacDermots Roe established the Dominican Priory of the Holy Cross at Cloonshanville, near modern-day Frenchpark in County Roscommon.\n\nIn 1455 and again 1471, the MacDermots Roe are described as Lords of Coilte Conchoghair, a small territory between the Feorish and Arigna Rivers, now the northern portion of Kilronan Parish, County Roscommon. By the 16th century, the MacDermots Roe, apparently displacing the MacManus family, controlled all Kilronan including valuable iron mines and iron works around Arigna.\n\nWhile the family eventually spread, not only, throughout Moylurg, but also, further south in County Roscommon, their headquarters remained in Kilronan at Alderford, formerly Camagh, near Ballyfarnon. By the end of the Gaelic period, the MacDermots Roe accounted for about one third of the MacDermot Clan.\n\nThe MacDermots were vigorous supporters of Ireland's Nine Years War against England and were conspicuous in the Irish victory at the Battle of Curlew Pass in 1599. However, the MacDermots Roe were more cautious. In a report dated September 1597, Sir Conyers Clifford, English President of Connacht, wrote that the MacDermots Roe had come to him and were living about Boyle Abbey.\n\nIn 1607 Conor MacDermot Roe, a cousin of Ferghal, the last MacDermot Roe chieftain elected under the Gaelic brehon legal system, surrendered MacDermot Roe lands in Kilronan to King James I and received them back in fee simple as a grant from the King. In the grant, Conor is referred to merely as a \"representative\" of the family.\n\nThe 1607 surrender and re-grant to Conor MacDermotRoe was illustrative of the eclipse of the Gaelic order. The English abolished the Irish brehon legal system and along with it the Irish system of clan land ownership and the Irish practice of electing clan chiefs. Henceforth, the chief's property and his title passed to the eldest son under primogeniture.\n\nThe MacDermots Roe were Jacobites, supporting James II against William of Orange following the 1688 English Revolution. Sir Terence Dermott served as Lord Mayor of Dublin in 1689 under James II. Later, Sir Terence followed James II into exile at Saint-Germain-en-Laye, France where the King made him a captain of a privateer vessel. Henry MacDermot Roe was a Jacobite captain in the army of James II.\n\nDespite their support for the Stuarts, the MacDermots Roe of Alderford continued to have substantial landholdings in Kilronan while remaining Catholic. However, following the death of Charles MacDermot Roe in 1759, Charles' brother John, who had become a Protestant, evicted Charles' family from Alderford.\n\nJohn's descendants became officials of the Anglo-Irish government. Thomas Charles MacDermot Roe was High Sheriff of Roscommon and Justice of the Peace in Counties Roscommon and Sligo in 1875. His line became extinct in 1917.\n\nThe MacDermots Roe were the principal patrons of the Irish composer Turlough Carolan. Carolan is often referred to as the last of the great bards and is considered by many to be Ireland's national composer.\n\nThe MacDermots Roe patronage of Carolan was particularly significant since it came at a time when Gaelic culture was vigorously suppressed by English measures such as the Penal Laws. Since ancient times, Irish bards played an important cultural role preserving Irish myths, histories and genealogies in the oral tradition. Bards served as officials of kings and chiefs and, like Carolan, they travelled the kingdom composing songs for notables.\n\nThe coat of arms of the MacDermot Roe of Alderford was:\n\nWhile the motto of the MacDermot Roe of Alderford was \"Honor Probataque Virtus\", an American branch of the MacDermots Roe has published the motto \"Justice and Charity\" reflecting the family's Biatach tradition.\n\nAfter the 17th century, the use of the appellation Roe went into steep decline and the Roe was generally dropped outside County Roscommon. While a substantial portion of the thousands of MacDermots living today descend from the MacDermots Roe, only a handful in Ireland, the United States and Australia have retained the appellation in their name. One branch of the family who emigrated to the United States in the late 19th century dropped the MacDermot and the family become known as Roe. To the extent the name has survived in modern times, it is expressed as one word:\n\nIn 1380, Manus was the Abbot of the Premonstratensian (reformed Augustinian) monastery on Trinity Island in Loch Ce in northern Roscommon.\n\nBernard was Prior of the Dominican Priory at Cloonshanville in 1698 when he was forced into exile.\n\nIn April 1707, King James II of England, in exile at Saint-Germain-en-Laye, France recommended Ambrose as Bishop of Elphin to Pope Clement XI. Ambrose, who served as Bishop 1708–1717 during the Penal Laws, reported in 1714 that he had ordained 32 priests in his Diocese.\n\nThomas, the third son of Carolan's patrons, was Bishop of Ardagh, 1747–1751.\n\nOwen was the secretary of the Dublin Society of United Irishmen. The United Irishmen, a nationalist group led by Wolfe Tone, sparked the unsuccessful Irish rebellion of 1798.\n\nBrother of Owen, Thomas, born circa 1751, was Colonel of the Athleague Rangers, a Roscommon militia organisation. During the French Revolution, Thomas joined Lord Edward Fitzgerald and other Irish nationalists in Paris to enlist French support for Irish resistance to English rule.\n\nCornelius was George Washington's mason at Mount Vernon from 1784 to 1788. After leaving Washington’s service, Cornelius was hired to lay the foundation for one wing of the United States Capitol but did not complete the project due to a contract dispute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109782", "title": "Requirements management", "text": "Requirements management\n\nRequirements management is the process of documenting, analyzing, tracing, prioritizing and agreeing on requirements and then controlling change and communicating to relevant stakeholders. It is a continuous process throughout a project. A requirement is a capability to which a project outcome (product or service) should conform.\n\nThe purpose of requirements management is to ensure that an organization documents, verifies, and meets the needs and expectations of its customers and internal or external stakeholders. Requirements management begins with the analysis and elicitation of the objectives and constraints of the organization. Requirements management further includes supporting planning for requirements, integrating requirements and the organization for working with them (attributes for requirements), as well as relationships with other information delivering against requirements, and changes for these.\n\nThe traceability thus established is used in managing requirements to report back fulfilment of company and stakeholder interests in terms of compliance, completeness, coverage, and consistency. Traceabilities also support change management as part of requirements management in understanding the impacts of changes through requirements or other related elements (e.g., functional impacts through relations to functional architecture), and facilitating introducing these changes.\n\nRequirements management involves communication between the project team members and stakeholders, and adjustment to requirements changes throughout the course of the project. To prevent one class of requirements from overriding another, constant communication among members of the development team is critical. For example, in software development for internal applications, the business has such strong needs that it may ignore user requirements, or believe that in creating use cases, the user requirements are being taken care of.\n\nRequirements traceability is concerned with documenting the life of a requirement. It should be possible to trace back to the origin of each requirement and every change made to the requirement should therefore be documented in order to achieve traceability. Even the use of the requirement after the implemented features have been deployed and used should be traceable.\n\nRequirements come from different sources, like the business person ordering the product, the marketing manager and the actual user. These people all have different requirements for the product. Using requirements traceability, an implemented feature can be traced back to the person or group that wanted it during the requirements elicitation. This can, for example, be used during the development process to prioritize the requirement, determining how valuable the requirement is to a specific user. It can also be used after the deployment when user studies show that a feature is not used, to see why it was required in the first place.\n\nAt each stage in a development process, there are key requirements management activities and methods. To illustrate, consider a standard five-phase development process with Investigation, Feasibility, Design, Construction and Test, and Release stages.\n\nIn Investigation, the first three classes of requirements are gathered from the users, from the business and from the development team. In each area, similar questions are asked; what are the goals, what are the constraints, what are the current tools or processes in place, and so on. Only when these requirements are well understood can functional requirements be developed.\n\nIn the common case, requirements cannot be fully defined at the beginning of the project. Some requirements will change, either because they simply weren’t extracted, or because internal or external forces at work affect the project in mid-cycle.\n\nThe deliverable from the Investigation stage is a requirements document that has been approved by all members of the team. Later, in the thick of development, this document will be critical in preventing scope creep or unnecessary changes. As the system develops, each new feature opens a world of new possibilities, so the requirements specification anchors the team to the original vision and permits a controlled discussion of scope change.\n\nWhile many organizations still use only documents to manage requirements, others manage their requirements baselines using software tools. These tools allow requirements to be managed in a database, and usually have functions to automate traceability (e.g., by allowing electronic links to be created between parent and child requirements, or between test cases and requirements), electronic baseline creation, version control, and change management. Usually such tools contain an export function that allows a specification document to be created by exporting the requirements data into a standard document application.\n\nIn the Feasibility stage, costs of the requirements are determined. For user requirements, the current cost of work is compared to the future projected costs once the new system is in place. Questions such as these are asked: “What are data entry errors costing us now?” Or “What is the cost of scrap due to operator error with the current interface?” Actually, the need for the new tool is often recognized as these questions come to the attention of financial people in the organization.\n\nBusiness costs would include, “What department has the budget for this?” “What is the expected rate of return on the new product in the marketplace?” “What’s the internal rate of return in reducing costs of training and support if we make a new, easier-to-use system?”\n\nTechnical costs are related to software development costs and hardware costs. “Do we have the right people to create the tool?” “Do we need new equipment to support expanded software roles?” This last question is an important type. The team must inquire into whether the newest automated tools will add sufficient processing power to shift some of the burden from the user to the system in order to save people time.\n\nThe question also points out a fundamental point about requirements management. A human and a tool form a system, and this realization is especially important if the tool is a computer or a new application on a computer. The human mind excels in parallel processing and interpretation of trends with insufficient data. The CPU excels in serial processing and accurate mathematical computation. The overarching goal of the requirements management effort for a software project would thus be to make sure the work being automated gets assigned to the proper processor. For instance, “Don’t make the human remember where she is in the interface. Make the interface report the human’s location in the system at all times.” Or “Don’t make the human enter the same data in two screens. Make the system store the data and fill in the second screen as needed.”\n\nThe deliverable from the Feasibility stage is the budget and schedule for the project.\n\nAssuming that costs are accurately determined and benefits to be gained are sufficiently large, the project can proceed to the Design stage. In Design, the main requirements management activity is comparing the results of the design against the requirements document to make sure that work is staying in scope.\n\nAgain, flexibility is paramount to success. Here’s a classic story of scope change in mid-stream that actually worked well. Ford auto designers in the early ‘80s were expecting gasoline prices to hit $3.18 per gallon by the end of the decade. Midway through the design of the Ford Taurus, prices had centered to around $1.50 a gallon. The design team decided they could build a larger, more comfortable, and more powerful car if the gas prices stayed low, so they redesigned the car. The Taurus launch set nationwide sales records when the new car came out, primarily because it was so roomy and comfortable to drive.\n\nIn most cases, however, departing from the original requirements to that degree does not work. So the requirements document becomes a critical tool that helps the team make decisions about design changes.\n\nIn the construction and testing stage, the main activity of requirements management is to make sure that work and cost stay within schedule and budget, and that the emerging tool does in fact meet requirements. A main tool used in this stage is prototype construction and iterative testing. For a software application, the user interface can be created on paper and tested with potential users while the framework of the software is being built. Results of these tests are recorded in a user interface design guide and handed off to the design team when they are ready to develop the interface. This saves their time and makes their jobs much easier.\n\nVerification:\nThis effort verifies that the requirement has been implemented correctly. There are 4 methods of verification: analysis, inspection, testing, and demonstration. Numerical software execution results or through-put on a network test, for example, provides analytical evidence that the requirement has been met. Inspection of vendor documentation or spec sheets also verifies requirements. Actually testing or demonstrating the software in a lab environment also verifies the requirements: a test type of verification will occur when test equipment not normally part of the lab (or system under test) is used. Comprehensive test procedures which outline the steps and their expected results clearly identify what is to be seen as a result of performing the step. After the step or set of steps is completed the last step's expected result will call out what has been seen and then identify what requirement or requirements have been verified (identified by number). The requirement number, title and verbiage are tied together in another location in the test document. \n\nHardly would any software development project be completed without some changes being asked of the project. The changes can stem from changes in the environment in which the finished product is envisaged to be used, business changes, regulation changes, errors in the original definition of requirements, limitations in technology, changes in the security environment and so on. The activities of requirements change management include receiving the change requests from the stakeholders, recording the received change requests, analyzing and determining the desirability and process of implementation, implementation of the change request, quality assurance for the implementation and closing the change request. Then the data of change requests be compiled, analyzed and appropriate metrics are derived and dovetailed into the organizational knowledge repository.\n\nRequirements management does not end with product release. From that point on, the data coming in about the application’s acceptability is gathered and fed into the Investigation phase of the next generation or release. Thus the process begins again.\n\nAcquiring a tool to support requirements management is no trivial matter and it needs to be undertaken as part of a broader process improvement initiative. It has long been a perception that a tool, once acquired and installed on a project, can address all of its requirements management-related needs. However, the purchase or development of a tool to support requirements management can be a costly decision. Organizations may get burdened with expensive support contracts, disproportionate effort can get misdirected towards learning to use the tool and configuring it to address particular needs, and inappropriate use that can lead to erroneous decisions. Organizations should follow an incremental process to make decisions about tools to support their particular needs from within the wider context of their development process and tooling. The tools are presented in Requirements traceability.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109788", "title": "Maggie Stables", "text": "Maggie Stables\n\nMaggie Stables was a British actress who played the part of the companion Evelyn Smythe in a range of audio dramas by Big Finish Productions based on the BBC television series \"Doctor Who\".\n\nStables turned to acting as a second career after retiring from a long-held position as a French teacher. After some experience in musical theatre, in 1991 she acted in a production of \"Jane Eyre\", with Nicholas Briggs. This led to Briggs' later casting Stables as Ruthley in Big Finish's first \"Doctor Who\" play, \"The Sirens of Time\", and as Evelyn the following year.\n\nStables appeared in several Big Finish audio roles beyond Evelyn. In addition to Ruthley, Stables appeared in \"Zagreus\" as the Great Mother, in \"\" as Mrs Lythe, and the Bernice Summerfield audio drama \"Just War\" as Ma Doras. Stables also portrayed Evelyn Smythe in the webcast \"Doctor Who\" story \"Real Time\". \nStables was a justice of the peace from 1971 to 2003, sitting in both the Edmonton and Haringey Petty sessions.\n\nStables stopped acting in 2013 due to a long-term illness. She died in her sleep, on 26 September 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109796", "title": "Oliver Frey", "text": "Oliver Frey\n\nOliver \"Oli\" Frey (; born 30 June 1948 in Zurich, Switzerland) is an artist. A resident of Britain, he is known for his book and magazine illustrations – especially for British computer magazines of the 1980s – and erotic illustrations and erotic comics (under the pen name Zack) – especially in British gay male porn magazines of the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nFrey was born in Zurich, Switzerland on 30 June 1948. He grew up fluent in Italian and German. His family moved to Britain in 1956 but subsequently returned to Switzerland. During his high school years in Switzerland, Frey enrolled in the American Famous Artists School correspondence course.\n\nAfter spending six months in the Swiss army and dropping out of Berne University, Frey moved back to Britain and started a two-year course at the London Film School, during which he supported himself with freelance work, including illustrating \"War Picture Library\" comic books. As a child Frey had loved \"The Eagle\" comics magazine, and as an adult worked on the 1980s revival, drawing the strip \"Dan Dare\". Also during the 1970s, he illustrated for IPC Media's \"Look and Learn\" magazine, including the strip \"The Trigan Empire\". He was commissioned to create 1930s-era comic book art for the pre-title sequence of the 1978 movie \"Superman\".\nThrough the late 1970s and the 1980s Frey was a prolific creator of gay erotic art, usually published under the pen name \"Zack\". These included a comics series featuring a big, muscular bad-boy hero named \"Rogue\" for \"HIM Magazine\", a monthly gay male pornography publication which he and his partner Roger Kean owned, along with related titles. He also produced, edited, and illustrated several issues of \"Man-to-Man Magazine\". Frey illustrated twelve of the \"HIM Libraries\", the first two written by Kean, the remainder by various authors who submitted manuscripts. The company was raided by the police in 1981, and all of its stock was destroyed under then-current laws. His gay pornographic work was also featured on front covers and in volumes of the \"Meatmen\" series of gay erotic comics. Russell T. Davies, writer of the British television series \"Queer as Folk\", praised Frey's serial \"The Street\" as an important influence on his ground-breaking gay TV drama.\n\nWhen Roger Kean and his brother Franco founded the computer magazine \"CRASH\" in 1983, Frey became the magazine's illustrator. He went on to illustrate for \"CRASH's\" sister magazines \"Zzap!64\", \"Amtix\", and \"The Games Machine\". He illustrated the comic strip \"Terminal Man\", written by Kelvin Gosnell, which was serialized in both \"CRASH\" and \"Zzap!64\" in 1984, and published as a complete story in a large format book in 1988.\n\nDuring the late 90s, Frey worked as publishing director for Thalamus Publishing in Shropshire, which specialized in illustrated historical reference titles. Thalamus Publishing went into receivership in August 2009. Frey and Kean formed Reckless Books in Ludlow, specializing in young adult action-adventure, historical, and gay adult reading.\n\nSeveral of Frey's painted front covers for Fleetway and IPC \"War Picture Libraries\" were reproduced from the original art in two of David Roach's books, \"Aaargh! It’s War\" in 2007, and \"The Art of War\" in 2008. Frey is the illustrator of over 16 books under the name Oliver Frey and over 12 under the pseudonym Zack. Classic video gaming magazine \"Retro Gamer\" has featured Frey's artwork on its cover. In July and August 2014 his gay erotic work was included in an exhibition at the British Library, where he was interviewed by novelist and reporter Rupert Smith.\n\nFrey sells signed prints and paintings, and takes private commissions.\n\nFrey lives with his long-time partner Roger Kean in the United Kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109801", "title": "Daryabar Fossa", "text": "Daryabar Fossa\n\nDaryabar Fossa is an east-west trending trough on Saturn's moon Enceladus. Daryabar Fossa was first seen in \"Voyager 2\" images, though a small section was see at much higher resolution by \"Cassini\". It is centered at 9.7° North Latitude, 359.1° West Longitude and is approximately 201 kilometers long. Based on limb profiles of \"Voyager 2\" images, Daryabar Fossa was determined to be a 400-meter deep and 4 kilometers wide (Kargel and Pozio 1996). Daryabar Fossa runs perpendicular to the scarp Isbanir Fossa and is right-laterally offset 15–20 km by the scarp, suggesting Isbanir is a strike-slip or transform fault (Rothery 1999).\n\nDaryabar Fossa is named for the land from which Princess Daryabar came in \"One Thousand and One Nights\". The word Daryabar is Persian دریابار and means \"Seaside\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2109812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109812", "title": "Birmingham Hippodrome", "text": "Birmingham Hippodrome\n\nThe Birmingham Hippodrome is a theatre situated on Hurst Street in the Chinese Quarter of Birmingham, England.\n\nAlthough best known as the home stage of the Birmingham Royal Ballet, it also hosts a wide variety of other performances including visiting opera and ballet companies, touring West End shows, pantomime and drama.\n\nThe Hippodrome is the venue for West End touring theatrical shows, such as \"Wicked\", \"Chitty Chitty Bang Bang\", \"The Lion King\", \"Matilda\", \"Mary Poppins, Annie, Grease\" and \"We Will Rock You\".\n\nThe theatre's Christmas pantomimes are produced by Qdos Entertainment, over recent years attracting stars such as Brian Conley, Don Maclean, Julian Clary, Joe Pasquale, John Barrowman, Joan Collins, Nigel Havers, Keith Harris, Lynda Bellingham, Lesley Joseph, Gary Wilmot, Paul Zerdin, Gok Wan, John Partridge, Jane McDonald, Marti Pellow, Lee Mead, The Krankies, Steve McFadden, Jodie Prenger and Andrew Ryan. Comedian Matt Slack has appeared since 2013, returning due to popular demand.\n\nWith a regular annual attendance of over 600,000, the Hippodrome is the busiest single theatre in the United Kingdom, and the busiest venue for dance outside London.\n\nThe first venue built on the Hippodrome site was a building of assembly rooms in 1895. In 1899 the venue was redesigned by local architect F. W. Lloyd, a stage and circus ring was added together with a Moorish tower (removed 1963) and the enterprise named the \"Tower of Varieties\". After failing, this was soon rebuilt as a normal variety theatre, reopened as the \"Tivoli\" in 1900, finally becoming \"The Hippodrome\" under the ownership of impresario Thomas Barrasford in October 1903. The current neo-classical auditorium seats 1,900 and was designed by Burdwood and Mitchell in 1924. Following the construction of the nearby Smallbrook Queensway, the entrance building and tower were demolished in 1963, and a new modern entrance constructed. At the same time, the theatre was renamed 'Birmingham Theatre' for a time. This plain facade was refaced in the 1980s with a mock-Victorian plasterwork, whilst the stagehouse was demolished and rebuilt to accommodate larger shows. The decade also saw the theatre host the Central Television revival of the ITV talent show \"New Faces\", hosted by Marti Caine.\n\nThe exterior of the theatre was substantially rebuilt by Associated Architects and Law and Dunbar-Nasmith in 2001, with a new glass facade and accommodation for the Birmingham Royal Ballet and additional performance space.\n\nIn July 2015, comedian and actor Brian Conley was celebrated at the end of a performance of \"Barnum\", having performed at the Hippodrome for 600 performances, appearing in six pantomimes, \"Jolson\", \"Chitty Chitty Bang Bang\", \"Hairspray\", \"Oliver!\" and hosting the 1999 Royal Variety Performance at the theatre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109813", "title": "Odd Nordstoga", "text": "Odd Nordstoga\n\nOdd Nordstoga (born 10 December 1972) is a folk singer, musician, actor and editor from Vinje in Telemark, Norway. In 2004, he went from relative obscurity to becoming the country's biggest selling recording artist, with the phenomenal success of his first solo album proper, \"\"Luring\"\". The album, a fusion of pop and Norwegian folk music, has sold more than 160,000 copies in Norway to date and earned him several Spellemannsprisen awards. For the album \"Strålande Jul\", released together with Sissel Kyrkjebø, he won an unprecedented 11 Norwegian platinum trophies.\n\nNordstoga grew up at Plassen in Vinje, Telemark, the homestead of author Aasmund Olavsson Vinje. He hails from a hugely cultural family. His mother, Ellen Bojer Nordstoga is a folk singer. His father, Olav Nordstoga is a folk singer, former politician and the chairman of the Vinje Literary Days. In addition, brother Aasmund Nordstoga has made a name for himself as a singer, dancer, actor and radio and TV presenter. Organist Kåre Nordstoga is his second cousin.\n\nNordstoga resides in Lambertseter, a borough of Oslo, together with his wife and three children.\n\nHis career as a recording artist spans 8 years. He made his debut as a recording artist in 1997 with the band Something Odd and their self-titled debut. This album earned them a record deal with BMG Norway and they swiftly released the follow-up \"Solreven\" in 1998. Two minor radio-hits, the folk rock inspired \"Fuggel i Karmen\" and the haunting ballad \"Ingen eg kjenner\", came out of this album, but the album sold poorly and the band was dropped from their label. In 2000, Odd Nordstoga changed the name of Something Odd to simply Nordstoga, signed to the Norwegian label Grappa and released a more pop music oriented self-titled album. A couple of minor radio hits, \"Dag\" and \"Bie på deg\", ensued. Nordstoga won Norway's prestigious Edvardprisen Award for \"Bie på Deg\". However, soon afterwards they disbanded.\n\nBetween 2001-2003, Odd Nordstoga concentrated most of his efforts towards the more traditional folk music of Telemark. With his other band Blåmann Blåmann (named after the poem by Aasmund O. Vinje), consisting of Nordstoga and his friends from Vinje, guitarist Asgaut H. Bakken, flute player Silje Hegg and harding fiddle virtuoso Lars Underdal, he released a self-titled album to great reviews in 2001, and scored a radio hit in \"Tippe Tippe Tuve\". In 2002 he teamed up with highly respected Norwegian folk musician Øyonn Groven Myhren (amongst other things known from the folk ensemble Dvergmål) to write, perform and release the album \"Nivelkinn\", based on poems by Telemark poet Aslaug Vaa. This collaboration scored a couple of minor radio hits in \"Uppi Måneskin\" and \"Guten og Folen\", and earned them the Spellemannprisen award (Norwegian equivalent of the Grammy) in 2003 for best folk music album. Nordstoga was also involved in a book release in 2002, namely the song book \"Song for deg og meg\" (\"Song for you and me\") which he edited, consisting of children songs written in Nynorsk, one of Norway's two written standards. In 2014 he received the Nynorsk User of the Year award.\n\nIt was also in 2003 that the mainstream opened its eyes to Nordstoga as he teamed up with famous singer/actress/writer Herborg Kråkevik to write and perform the title track from her Édith Piaf-cabaret, entitled \"Eg & Edith\". The cabaret and its soundtrack, although greatly anticipated, was a minor flop in terms of album sales and tickets sold, whereas the title track proved to be a nice radio hit for the duo. Nordstoga, together with lyricist Stein Versto (another Vinje native), also contributed with the track \"Rosevev\" on this album.\n\nNordstoga had previously worked with Kråkevik in the film \"Det Rare\", based on a short story by famous Norwegian writer Tarjei Vesaas.\n\nIn 2004, Nordstoga signed for Universal Records and made his definitive breakthrough with the album \"Luring\", selling 150.000 copies and spending 14 weeks on top of the Norwegian album charts. The lead single from the album, about a howling pig entitled \"Kveldssong for deg og meg\", is already a Norwegian evergreen and one of the most played songs on Norwegian radio in 2004. \"Texas\", \"Lause Ting\", \"Hallo Hallo\" and \"Farvel til deg\" from the same album also became massive radio hits for Nordstoga.\n\nThe tour in the wake of the album, the so-called \"Luringtur\" tour, which Nordstoga played together with his backing band Daz Nordstogaz Allstars, played to a 60.000 strong crowd. At the Spellemannprisen Awards in February 2005, Nordstoga won two awards as he was named best male artist and Artist of the Year. In the summer of 2005, Nordstoga once again took to the road for the \"\"Luringtur\" MK II\" tour.\n\nNordstoga has also been involved in TV productions. In 2004 he did the music for the Norwegian children's series \"Linus i Svingen\" that was broadcast on NRK 1, Norway's public broadcaster. The theme song, \"Svingensongen\", is being released in 2005 on the compilation album \"Tidenes beste barneplate 2\". He has also been involved with the music for Norway's vastly popular UHU! series.\n\nIn June 2005, Nordstoga teamed up with some of Norway's finest jazz musicians and performed the piece \"Pilegrim\" to great acclaim at Festspillene i Bergen (Bergen Music Festival). the lyrics were written by lyricists Stein Versto and Ragnar Hovland, both previously involved in the \"Luring\" production. In August 2005, he made a cameo appearance with Norwegian rap-collective Klovner i Kamp, singing the chorus to their single \"Syng\".\n\nOdd Nordstoga has also done projects for 'The Salvation Army' and folk music projects with different people, amongst other things, renditions of the famous Telemark piece \"Storegut\" with brother Aasmund and Lars Underdal, and guest appearances with the band Fake It or Leave It who play Beatles songs Norwegian folk music style.\n\nNordstoga released his follow-up to \"Luring\" in October 2006. Entitled \"Heim Te Mor\", the album received a great deal of airplay and acclaim from critics all over Norway. The radio single and title track \"Heim Te Mor\" became a radio hit upon release in September 2006, marking another milestone for Nordstoga as this release marks his first music video as a solo artist, an animated video based on a Nordstoga concert in his local community made by the Animidas film maker crew. With radio single number two \"Frøken Franzen\" coinciding with the album's release, Odd Nordstoga looks set for another album success. He is also responsible for the soundtrack to the forthcoming Christmas children series \"Jul i Svingen\" on Norway's NRK TV channel, which is the follow-up to \"Linus i Svingen\".\n\nNordstoga released the songbook \"Songfuggel i Karmen\" in 2007, containing his greatest hits and his personal favourites. In 2008 the album \"Pilegrim\" was released to great acclaim, securing the third bestseller in a row for the artist. In the autumn of the same year Nordstoga, together with his brother Aasmund Nordstoga and fiddler Per Anders Buen Garnås, toured Norway with a revamped version of the Storegut performance.\n\nOn November 9, 2009 Nordstoga released the album \"Strålande Jul\" together with Norwegian soprano Sissel Kyrkjebø. The album is a collection of Norwegian, Swedish and Danish Christmas songs. The album was issued under the moniker \"Sissel & Odd\" and accompanied by a series of concerts in Scandinavia. In an attempt to sell more records in the age of downloading the album was partly released through the grocery store chain Coop Norge whereby its members could buy the album at a reduced price. The gimmick paid off, securing a sale of over 100.000 copies in its first week of release alone, of which 60.000 were sold in Coop stores. With the album selling well in both Norway and Sweden, it was released in Denmark on December 1, 2009. It was revealed by the end of 2009 that this album was the best selling album of the 2000s in Norway, selling 400,000 copies.\n\nIn the autumn of 2006, Odd Nordstoga was the cause of a controversy between the Norwegian national broadcaster NRK, his management, Universal Records and the producers and cast of Norwegian-Swedish folk music adaptation of the Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart piece \"The Magic Flute\" (\"Tryllefløyten\"). Nordstoga, having played Papageno in the piece in the spring of 2006, withdrew from the plans to show the stage adaptation on NRK TV during Christmas 2006. According to Nordstoga's management and label, a screening of the play at this time would collide with Nordstoga's two album releases of 2006 and overexpose him. The result was a massive outburst from some of his contemporaries in the Norwegian folk music scene, most prominently the folk singer Kirsten Bråten Berg. In the media, Nordstoga was portrayed as the villain, letting his personal career interfere with the ensemble of which he was part. In later interviews, Nordstoga claims to have been very sad about the situation and felt trapped by his obligations toward his recording company.\n\nOdd Nordstoga has showed remarkable crossover potential in his career. He has collaborated with leading Norwegian artists and musicians from a wide variety of genres including folk music, jazz, electronica, chanson, hip hop, rock, classical music and pop. In addition to this, Nordstoga has shown that he is a \"jack-of-all-trades\" within the cultural field having performed in and helped writing cabarets, opera, edited books and acted in a film.\n\nNordstoga is for the most part famous within Norway. However, together with Rikskonsertene, he carried out a tour of China in 2008. In concurrence with the release of the Christmas album \"Strålande Jul\" he toured Sweden as well as appearing on Norwegian-Swedish talkshow \"Skavlan\". The album peaked at #17 in the Swedish Charts. The album will also be released in Denmark.\n\nBeing from Vinje in the traditional district of Vest-Telemark, Nordstoga writes and performs most of his original work in his native Telemark dialect. He also speaks the dialect privately and in the media. This has become a trademark for him and gained him respect from language organizations, as well as parodies and, to a small extent, ridicule from parts of the population without a distinct dialect. He was awarded the Telemark County Travel Industry Award for 2010 for using his dialect to promote the county of Telemark in a positive way.\n\n\nAll of Odd Nordstoga's solo albums have charted highly in the Norwegian Top 40 Albums Chart. \"Luring\" stayed in the charts for 38 weeks in 2004-2005 and peaked at no. 1. \"Heim te Mor\" stayed in the charts for 19 weeks in 2006-2007 and peaked at no. 2. \"Pilegrim\" stayed in the charts for 17 weeks in 2008-2009 and peaked at no. 2. The album \"Strålande Jul\" marked Nordstoga's first international hit album, entering the Swedish Top 40 Charts at #37 in its first week., and peaking at #17 in its third week. In Norway, the same album entered at #2, selling 100.000 copies in its first week, eventually reaching #1 in its second week. His latest album \"November\" debuted at no. 1 on the Norwegian charts.\n\nThe soundtrack album for the NRK series \"Jul i Svingen\", written in its entirety by Odd Nordstoga and John VInge, charted for 4 weeks in 2006, peaking at no. 22.\n\nNordstoga's single \"Heim te Mor\" spent 16 weeks on the Norwegian Top 20 Singles Chart in 2006-2007 peaking at no. 5. The single \"Min Eigen Song\" stayed in the charts for one week only in 2008, peaking at no. 19.\n\nThe album \"Eg & Edith\" by Herborg Kråkevik, of which Odd Nordstoga was a substantial contributor both as a musician and songwriter, stayed in the Norwegian charts for 7 weeks in 2002 and peaked at no. 21.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAudio books:\n\n\n\nOdd Nordstoga has appeared in, amongst others, these TV shows\n\nOdd Nordstoga has appeared in, amongst others, these radio shows\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109821", "title": "Ventimiglia di Sicilia", "text": "Ventimiglia di Sicilia\n\nVentimiglia di Sicilia (Sicilian: Calamigna) is a town and \"comune\" in the Metropolitan City of Palermo, located in the autonomous region of Sicily, Italy. Though \"Ventimiglia di Sicilia\" is its official name, in Sicilian, the city is known as Calamigna.\n\nVentimiglia was founded in the 1620s by Don Girolamo del Carretto. The town was named after his wife, Beatrice Ventimiglia. In 1863, \"di Sicilia\" was added to Ventimiglia, to differentiate the city from the town of Ventimiglia in Liguria. The city is neighbored by the towns Baucina, Bolognetta, Caccamo, Casteldaccia and Ciminna.\n\nThe town is also home to an advanced observatory, the \"Osservatorio di Ventimiglia di Sicilia \"Ezio Brancato\"\" (Ventimiglia di Sicilia Observatory) run by The \"Organizzazione Ricerche e Studi di Astronomia\" (Organization for the Research and Study of Astronomy) or ORSA, built in 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109823", "title": "Ricebird", "text": "Ricebird\n\nRicebird is a name for a number of different birds, especially those that feed on paddy fields or on various grains (not necessarily just rice). Most commonly, it refers to the:\n\n"}
{"id": "2109824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109824", "title": "Orangeville Brampton Railway", "text": "Orangeville Brampton Railway\n\nThe Orangeville-Brampton Railway is a long short line railway between Orangeville and Streetsville Junction in Mississauga, Ontario. It passes through the City of Brampton and the Town of Caledon.\n\nAt Streetsville, the OBRY connects with the Canadian Pacific Railway Galt Subdivision. At Brampton, it crosses the Canadian National Railway Halton Subdivision at grade, but no interchange traffic is handled. North of Brampton, the railway winds through the Niagara Escarpment and is notable for a curved, long trestle over the Credit River and Forks of the Credit Road, near Belfountain in Caledon.\n\nThe railway's main purpose is to service several industries in Orangeville and Brampton. However, between the fall of 2004 and spring of 2018, OBRY operated a public excursion train, marketed as Credit Valley Explorer, between Orangeville and Snelgrove (the northern edge of Brampton).\n\nFreight trains on the line are operated by Trillium Railway under contract for OBRY (previously operated by Cando Rail Services Ltd.) and make weekday round trips (on Tuesdays and Fridays) between Orangeville and Mississauga.\n\nMost of the current OBRY route was built in the 1870s by the Credit Valley Railway (CVR), with construction completed to Orangeville (with a branch to Elora) in 1879. The CVR was purchased by the CPR, which joined the tracks of the CVR with a former rival, the Toronto, Grey and Bruce Railway (TGB), at Orangeville, in effect extending the line north from Orangeville to the TGB's terminus in Owen Sound.\n\nScheduled passenger service between Toronto and Owen Sound via Brampton and Orangeville ended in 1970, the Elora branch was abandoned in 1987, and the Orangeville-Owen Sound trackage was abandoned in 1995.\n\nThe Town of Orangeville purchased the Mississauga-Orangeville trackage between Mile 2.2 to Mile 34.6 from the CPR on September 29, 2000 to ensure the line's continued existence. The line is now managed by the Orangeville Brampton Rail Development Corporation.\n\nIn early 2018, it was announced that after years of operation for the town, Cando would be discontinuing its contract to operate the line effective at the end of June 2018, and as a result, a new operator was being sought by the town to run the line. Facing an uncertain future, the Credit Valley Explorer made its final runs in February 2018, and the three passenger cars were sold off to the Waterloo Central Railway. After the final freight runs by Cando in late June 2018, new contractor Trillium Railway commenced freight operations on the OBRY, starting in July 2018 with a leased locomotive.\n\n\nSource. \n\n"}
{"id": "2109826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109826", "title": "American Desi", "text": "American Desi\n\nAmerican Desi is a 2001 American comedy film with Indian influence, notable for featuring many prominent South Asian American actors. Also featured is an a cappella version of Nazia Hassan's Urdu classic \"Aap Jaisa Koi\", sung by Penn Masala and originally from the movie \"Qurbani\". The term \"Desi\" in the title refers to the peoples and cultures of the Indian subcontinent.\n\nThe film centers around an American son of Indian immigrants, Krishnagopal Reddy (or \"Kris\" as he prefers to be called, to distance himself from his heritage), who does not associate with the Indian culture that his parents have pushed upon him. Upon arriving at Rutgers University, he finds out to his dismay that all of his roommates are of Indian descent, and all except one are international students from India. His roommates include Ajay (Kal Penn), who idealizes African-American culture; Jagjit, who loves art but studies engineering to please his father; and Salim, who is very traditional and conservative, feeling that Indian-American girls are too Westernized to make good wives.\n\nKris meets Nina, a girl he immediately falls for, and is surprised to find out that not only is she of Indian descent, but she is also quite connected to Indian culture and speaks her parents' native language. The movie revolves around Kris trying his best to win Nina over - from joining the Indian Students Association to be near her, to learning how to perform a Dandiya Raas. Kris eventually begins to enjoy the company of his roommates, all of whom put together their knowledge and skill to help Kris impress Nina through various ways involving Indian culture, which he eventually comes to love.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109835", "title": "Satai", "text": "Satai\n\nSatai is a town and a nagar panchayat in Chhatarpur district in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh.\n\n India census, Satai had a population of 8293. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Satai has an average literacy rate of 40%, lower than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 52%, and female literacy is 27%. In Satai, 21% of the population is under 6 years of age.\n"}
{"id": "2109840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109840", "title": "Rico Linhas Aéreas", "text": "Rico Linhas Aéreas\n\nRico Linhas Aéreas S/A was a Brazilian regional airline with its headquarters at Eduardo Gomes International Airport in Manaus, Brazil, authorized to operate scheduled passenger and cargo services in the Amazon region. The airline was grounded on 1 June 2010 and on 7 June 2011 lost its operational license. Current is a charter company.\n\nRico Linhas Aéreas was authorized to operate as a regional carrier in 1996 but its history is much older. In 1952, the Turkish immigrant Munur Yurtsever, known as Commander Mickey, who worked as an airplane mechanic in Nova Xavantina, Mato Grosso, bought an aircraft and started to fly in the region. The operations consisted of transportation of cargo to gold-mining locations of the region using small aircraft.\n\nDuring the 1960s, Mickey started a small charter and air taxi company called Taxi Aéreo Rondônia, specialized in flying to gold-mining centers of Rondônia and headquartered in Porto Velho. During the construction of the Trans-Amazonian highway in the 1970s, the company changed its headquarters to Manaus, and provided air services to the big construction companies that were building the highway.\n\nLater, Yurtsever also created Rico - Rondônia Indústria e Comércio, a company that in 1980 would be merged with Taxi Aéreo Rondônia to create Rico Taxi Aéreo.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1982 Rico Taxi Aéreo maintained a contract with Petrobras to provide air-transportation while it was searching for oil and natural gas in the Amazonian region. At that time Rico operated 23 Douglas DC-3s being the largest private operator of this type of aircraft in the world.\n\nOn 1 November 1996, while maintaining its independent air taxi operations, the owners of Rico Táxi Aéreo created Rico Linhas Aéreas, a regional scheduled airline. In 2005 Rico Linhas Aéreas was the largest regional carrier in Brazil serving Acre, Amazonas, Pará, and Rondônia.\n\nHowever the 2008 economic crisis forced Rico to dramatically down-size its operations: between January and September 2008, Rico cancelled 90% of its operations reducing its participation to 0.02% of the market, operating only within the state of Amazonas.\n\nRico Linhas Aéreas temporarily suspended all scheduled flights as of 1 June 2010 for a major operational restructuring. Charter operations however continued. On 7 June 2011 the National Civil Aviation Agency of Brazil cancelled its operational license but Rico Táxi Aéreo remains operative.\n\nIn March 2010, before suspending its scheduled flights, Rico Linhas Aéreas operated services to the following destinations:\n\n\nTerminated destinations before the suspension of services:\n\nRico Linhas Aéreas included the following aircraft configured in all-economy class as of June 2010:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109842", "title": "Manolis Anagnostakis", "text": "Manolis Anagnostakis\n\nManolis Anagnostakis (10 March 1925 – 23 June 2005) was a Greek poet and critic at the forefront of the Marxist and existentialist poetry movements arising during and after the Greek Civil War in the late 1940s. Anagnostakis was a leader amongst his contemporaries and influenced the generation of poets immediately after him. His poems have been honored in Greece's national awards and arranged and sung by contemporary musicians. In spite of his accomplishments, Philip Ramp notes that Anagnostakis \"is the least known, to an English speaking audience, of the major Greek poets of his generation.\"\n\nAnagnostakis was born in Thessaloniki and trained as a doctor, specializing in radiology. During the chaotic period of 1944, Anagnostakis served as the Editor-in-Chief of \"Xekinima\" (\"The Start\"), a student magazine. Anagnostakis' first book of poetry, \"Epoches\" (\"Seasons\") was published in 1945, at which point, according to Ramp, the poet's Marxist \"dream had already failed him\". His left-wing sympathies had inspired him to join the Resistance, which would lead to his being sentenced to death by a military court during the Civil War. Arrested for his involvement with the Student Movement at the University of Thessaloniki in 1948, Anagnostakis spent several years in Heptapyrgion, a state prison. His second volume, \"Epoches 2\" was published after he was imprisoned in 1948. In the next year, Anagnostakis was both expelled from the Communist Party of Greece and tried in court. He received a death sentence, but outsurvived the regime. Upon his release in 1951, he published the last book in the cycle.\n\nAnagnostakis began a new cycle of work with his \"Synecheia\" (\"The Continuation\"), in 1954, and its sequel in 1955. A collection of his works was published the next year. The poet spent 1955 and the next year in Vienna, continuing his medical studies in radiology, before returning to Greece. He spent 1959 through 1961 as editor of \"Criticism\", a journal of literary criticism, and finished his Continuation cycle in 1962. While he did not publish any more major works until 1971's \"Ta piimata 1941-1971\", (\"The Poems 1941-1971\"), he continued to contribute to newspapers and magazines.\n\nAlthough Anagnostakis' 1971 collection represented the end of the published works he was best known for, his existentialism-influenced verse left its mark on a younger generation of Greek poets. This influence is in part owing to his poetry having been set to music by Mikis Theodorakis, as part of his \"Ballades\" cycle, written during the seven-year Regime of the Colonels. The \"Ballades\" have been performed by vocalist Margarita Zorbala (recorded on her 1975 debut album), amongst others. Anagnostakis moved his practice and family to Athens in 1978. Lakis Papastathis produced a 52-minute film, \"Manolis Anagnostakis\", on Anagnostakis' life, for the Greek television series \"Paraskenio\" in 1983. Two volumes of Anagnostakis', another collection and \"O piitis Manussos Fassis\", (\"The Poet Manussos Fassis\") were issued in the following four years. Anagnostakis died June 23, 2005 in Athens.\n\nAnagnostakis' poetry has been described as \"terse\". His early works may be comparable in number of lines to Cavafy, but do contain single-word lines and single-line verse paragraphs. Other characteristics of the early poems are its \"bold, conversational tone\", sometimes in the form of an epistle, and at others culminating in direct advice to the reader. This style, along with Anagnostakis' simple, direct description of a hostile world was emulated by other left-wing poets of his generation.\n\nBeaton also notes \"a deep distrust of the poet's very medium, which runs through almost all the poetry of his generation\", as, for instance, in the poem \"Now He Is A Simple Spectator\". Also unusual amongst those contemporary poets sharing Anagnostakis' politics is Anagnostakis' use of Christian imagery in his poetry, and, unusual amongst Greek poets in general is a lack of romanticizing of the sea.\n\nIn the \"Synecheia\" series, written between the Civil War and the Regime of the Colonels, Vangelis Hadjivassiliou notes that Anagnostakis extends that ambivalence to his politics, as well. Anagnostakis asserts both that \"...the War is not over yet./ For no war is ever over!\" and that he is \"Laughing at your wealth of armours/ Suddenly infiltrating your lines/ Upsetting the solid arrays\".\n\nThe \"O stochos\" poems were written during the Regime of the Colonels. This work contains poems differing from the above characterizations of Anagnostakis as \"ambivalent\" and \"grim\". The book contains both a defense of poetry (\"Poetics\"), and a sardonic response to Cavafy's \"Young Men of Sidon (A.D. 400)\", titled \"Young Men of Sidon, 1970\", which defends levity against the demand for seriousness from Cavafy's \"vivacious young man\". Ekdotike Athenon S.A. cites the work as exemplary of Greek poetry after the Second World War, describing it as \"[representing] the social questioning typical of the poetry of the post-war generation\".\n\nThe post-1971 poems were, in some cases, even more terse than the \"Epoches\" poems, often being only epigrams. Categorizing Anagnostakis' poetry into a movement has proven somewhat challenging for critics. Hadjivassiliou characterizes the period of the \"Continuations\" as \"wholly political\". Nassos Vagenas, on the other hand, divides post-war Greek poetry into Marxist, existentialist, and surrealist, and then places Anagnostakis in the existentialist movement. Ramp suggests that the poet's lack of recognition outside of Greece can be attributed to the fact that Anagnostakis' poetry is politically \"committed\", but agrees that the poetry is not influenced by surrealism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109850", "title": "Koenig &amp; Bauer", "text": "Koenig &amp; Bauer\n\nKoenig & Bauer AG (KBA; ) is a German company that makes printing presses based in Würzburg. It was founded by Friedrich Koenig and Andreas Friedrich Bauer in Würzburg in 1817, making it the oldest printing press manufacturer in the world still in service.\n\n95% of the banknotes used in the world are printed on printers made by KBA-NotaSys SA, a division of KBA.\n\nFounded in 1817, by the 20th century Koenig and Bauer had become a major company and the world's leading manufacturer of security printing equipment.\n\nIn 1951, the firm began to suffer from the age of the designs of the machines it was selling, some of which dated from the early 1920s, and its chairman, Hans Bolza, faced up to the need to come to terms with Gualtiero Giori, an Italian printer and inventor with a company in Lausanne who had made great advances in intaglio printing. Bolza established an immediate rapport with Giori, and the deal they signed in 1952 led to a long-term agreement in 1958. Koenig & Bauer surrendered to Giori its distribution rights, even in Germany, but gained the exclusive rights to manufacture Giori machines, and the two had a long and profitable association. In 2001, after Giori's death, Koenig & Bauer acquired his company, Giori SA, part of which was renamed KBA Giori \n\nThe table lists the maximum number of pages which the various early 19th century press designs of Friedrich Koenig and Andreas Bauer could print \"per hour\", compared to earlier hand-operated screw presses. The table includes those designs which were constructed by the pair in England before the establishment of their company upon their return to Germany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109851", "title": "Kukl (band)", "text": "Kukl (band)\n\nKukl (often stylized as KUKL or K.U.K.L.) was an Icelandic post-punk group in the 1980s, most notable for being one of Björk's first bands.\n\nThe band formed in August 1983 when Ásmundur Jónsson from Gramm Records wanted to create an avant-garde supergroup to perform on the final episode of a radio show called \"Áfangar\". He assembled vocalist Björk Guðmundsdóttir of Exodus and Tappi Tíkarrass, trumpeter and vocalist Einar Örn Benediktsson (a.k.a. Einar Ørn) of Purrkur Pillnikk, keyboardist Einar Arnaldur Melax from the surrealistic group Medúsa, and bassist Birgir Mogensen from Spilafífl, as well as drummer Sigtryggur Baldursson (a.k.a. Trix) and guitarist Guðlaugur Kristinn Óttarsson (a.k.a. God Krist) from the band Þeyr.\n\nAfter two weeks of writing and rehearsals, the band played the radio session. Their ensuing enthusiasm for the experience led to a decision to make the group permanent.\n\nKukl's first live show was on September 20, 1983, opening for Crass in Reykjavík, followed shortly after by their first release, the 7\" single \"Söngull\" (Gramm).\n\nEinar Ørn had studied media at the Polytechnic of Central London, which enabled him to come in contact with UK anarcho-punk groups such as Flux of Pink Indians and Crass. This led to the 1984 release of Kukl's first album, \"The Eye\" (produced by Crass member Penny Rimbaud) on the Crass Records label. The title \"The Eye\" came from Björk’s favorite book, \"Story of the Eye\" by Georges Bataille (1928), whose plot involved the sexual adventures of a young French couple within a violent context. The album cover was illustrated by Dada Nana. \"The Eye\" contained an English-language version of “Söngull”, retitled “Dismembered”. A video clip was shot for the song “Anna”, directed by Óskar Jónasson.\n\nA live performance from September 1984 at L'Eldorado in Paris, France yielded \"Kukl á Paris 14.9.84\", a cassette-only release issued in 1985 by independent French record label V.I.S.A.. Kukl toured Europe during 1985, visiting the Netherlands during the Pandora's Box Festival, and Denmark during the Roskilde Festival. Later that year, Kukl and Icelandic rock singer Megas (Magnús Þór Jónsson) formed a side project called Megakukl. After creating about 20 songs, which remain unreleased, they played several concerts in Iceland.\n\nKukl released their second and final studio album, \"Holidays in Europe (The Naughty Nought)\", on Crass Records on January 24, 1986. Two video clips were produced, \"Outward Flight (Psalm 323)\" and \"France (A Mutual Thrill)\". In a manifesto published as a Crass Records press release to announce the album, the band said:\n\nLater that year, the band was close to an end, as different members pursued various projects. Óttarsson and Björk formed the Elgar Sisters, a group which featured musicians from Kukl (with the exception of Einar Ørn) and collaborators Hilmar Örn Hilmarsson and Þorsteinn Magnússon. This ensemble recorded 11 songs in 1986 and disbanded thereafter.\n\nIn the summer of 1986, Einar Ørn returned from England with two projects: the creation of a new record label, Smekkleysa/Bad Taste, and a new band, Sykurmolarnir, later translated as The Sugarcubes. As Kukl disbanded, the only members who did not continue with the new project were Mogensen and Óttarsson. The birth of the new band coincided with the June 8, 1986 birth of Björk's son Sindri Eldon Þórsson (fathered by Medúsa guitarist Þór Eldon Jónsson).\n\nBjörk, Einar Ørn, Melax and Baldursson formed the Sugarcubes in 1986 with bassist Bragi Ólafsson and guitarist Friðrik Erlingsson (replaced by Jónsson). Melax was later replaced by Margrét Örnólfsdóttir.\n\nMelax later formed Exem with Þorri Jóhannsson of Inferno 5, releasing the album \"Kjöttromman\" in 1995 on Smekkleysa.\n\nAfter Kukl disbanded, Óttarsson collaborated with renowned Icelandic and international artists and has performed solo guitar concerts in Iceland. As a polytechnic engineer in practice and inventor, he has also combined his music work with scientific projects and delved into quantum physics, thermoelectricity and navigational systems.\n\nMogensen worked for recording and video studios and joined Inferno 5, a multimedia ensemble founded by Þorri Jóh. He was asked to play bass for Killing Joke and rehearsed with them in England before Paul Raven rejoined that band. He played bass on several tracks on Exem's \"Kjöttromman\". He later worked as a broadcast supervisor at the SkjárEinn TV station.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109855", "title": "Edward Ellington", "text": "Edward Ellington\n\nMarshal of the Royal Air Force Sir Edward Leonard Ellington, (30 December 1877 – 13 June 1967) was a senior officer in the Royal Air Force. He served in the First World War as a staff officer and then as Director-General of Military Aeronautics and subsequently as Controller-General of Equipment. In the inter-war years he held command positions in the Middle East, in India and then in Iraq. He served as Chief of the Air Staff in the mid-1930s and in that role he implemented a plan, known as 'Scheme F'. This scheme implemented an increase in the size of the Royal Air Force to 187 squadrons (five bomber squadrons for every two fighter squadrons, reflecting the dominance of the bomber strategy at the time) within three years to counter the threat from Hitler's Germany. He also broke up the command known as \"Air Defence of Great Britain\" to create RAF Fighter Command, RAF Bomber Command, RAF Coastal Command and RAF Training Command. He then served as Inspector-General of the RAF until his retirement in 1940.\n\nBorn the son of Edward Bayzand Ellington and Marion Florence (née Leonard), Ellington was educated at Clifton College. After attending the Royal Military Academy Woolwich, Ellington was commissioned into the Royal Field Artillery on 1 September 1897. He was promoted to lieutenant on 1 September 1900 and to captain on 27 April 1904. After attending the Royal Naval War College, Portsmouth in 1908, he was posted to the War Office on 24 August 1909 and became a staff officer there on 9 August 1910. He learned to fly in 1912 and was awarded Royal Aero Club certificate No. 305 on 1 October 1912. He went on to be Secretary to the Air Committee in November 1912 and a staff officer in the Directorate of Military Aeronautics in May 1913 and was then transferred to the Reserve of the Royal Flying Corps on 17 December 1913.\n\nWhen the First World War started, Ellington was under training at the Central Flying School. On 5 October 1914, he was sent, not to a flying post but to be the Deputy Assistant Quartermaster-General at the headquarters of the British Expeditionary Force in France. On 6 March 1915 he was granted a brevet promotion to lieutenant colonel and posted as the Assistant Adjutant and Quartermaster-General of the 2nd Cavalry Division.\n\nEllington then served as a staff officer, from 22 July 1915 with the 2nd Army, then, from 5 February 1916 with the Department of the Chief of the Imperial General Staff, and finally from 14 January 1917 with the General Staff of the VIII Corps. On 20 November 1917 he was made the Deputy Director-General of Military Aeronautics under Major General John Salmond at the War Office. Ellington succeeded John Salmond as Director-General on 18 January 1918, holding the post until it was disestablished with the creation of the Royal Air Force in April 1918. He was promoted to the temporary rank of major general and appointed acting Controller-General of Equipment in April 1918, becoming substantive in that post in August 1918.\n\nEllington was appointed a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George on 3 June 1916 and awarded the Russian Order of Saint Stanislaus, 2nd Class on 1 June 1917. He was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath for services during the war on 1 January 1919.\n\nEllington's role was re-designated as Director-General of Supply and Research in April 1919 and, having been appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire on 3 June 1919, he was awarded a permanent commission in the Royal Air Force as a major general in August 1919 (shortly afterwards redesignated as an air vice marshal). Advanced to Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in the 1920 Birthday Honours he became Air Officer Commanding RAF Middle East in March 1922. He went on to be Air Officer Commanding RAF India in November 1923 and put down a rebellion by Mahsuds on the North West Frontier in what became known as Pink's War. He became Air Officer Commanding RAF Iraq in November 1926, in which role he undertook peace keeping operations following a revolt led by Sheikh Mahmud Barzanji in 1927, and then became Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief Air Defence of Great Britain in February 1929 with promotion to air marshal on 1 July 1929. He was appointed Principal Air Aide-de-Camp to the King on 27 February 1930 and became Air Member for Personnel on 26 September 1931, receiving promotion to air chief marshal on 1 January 1933.\n\nEllington was appointed Chief of the Air Staff on 22 May 1933. He succeeded Air Chief Marshal Sir John Salmond, who was acting in the role following the sudden death of his brother Air Chief Marshal Sir Geoffrey Salmond, who had only become Chief of the Air Staff in April. In that role he implemented a plan, known as 'Scheme F', to increase the size of the Royal Air Force to 187 squadrons (five bomber squadrons for every two fighter squadrons reflecting the dominance of the bomber strategy at the time) within three years to counter the threat from Hitler's Germany. To facilitate expansion, he reorganized the Home RAF commands forming RAF Fighter Command, RAF Bomber Command and RAF Training Command from Air Defence of Great Britain, Inland Command, RAF Cranwell (RAF Cadet College), and RAF Halton (No 1 School of Technical Training (Apprentices)) and renaming Coastal Area as RAF Coastal Command . He was advanced to Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath in the 1935 Birthday Honours. He attended the funeral of King George V in January 1936 and, having been promoted to marshal of the Royal Air Force on 1 January 1937, he attended the coronation of George VI in May 1937.\n\nFollowing completion of his term as Chief of the Air Staff, Ellington became Inspector-General of the RAF on 1 September 1937. It was in his capacity as Inspector-General that in 1938 Ellington visited Australia to investigate standards in the Royal Australian Air Force. His report strongly criticised the RAAF's operational capability and safety standards. Following the publication of the report in July 1938, the Australian Government dismissed Air Vice Marshal Richard Williams from his post as RAAF Chief of the Air Staff. In July 1939 Ellington was augmented in his post as Inspector-General by Air Marshal Sir Charles Burnett, who would become the RAAF's Chief of the Air Staff in 1940.\n\nEllington retired on 4 April 1940, shortly after the start of the Second World War. He attended the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II in June 1953 and died on 13 June 1967 from coronary thrombosis at Scio House Hospital in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109858", "title": "Ayya (Pali word)", "text": "Ayya (Pali word)\n\nAyya is a Pali word, translated as \"honourable\" or \"worthy\".\n\nIt is most commonly used as a veneration in addressing or referring to an ordained female Buddhist monk, most often of the Theravadan tradition in Southeast Asia. It is sometimes mistaken as equivalent to Christian use of the word, \"sister.\" Ayya can refer to either a bhikkhuni (fully ordained and usually wearing orange or yellow robes in Southeast Asia) or a samaneri (shramanerika) ten-precept novice renunciant or a sikkhamana (wearing white, brown or sometimes pink), but not to non-ordained precept-holders.\n\nGenerally for bhikkhunis, robes would be maroon with yellow in Tibet; gray (for Mahayanans) or orange/yellow (for Theravadans) in Vietnam; gray in Korea; gray or black in China and Taiwan; black in Japan; orange or yellow in Thailand, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Laos, Cambodia, and Burma. The colour of robes distinguishes both level of ordination and tradition, with white (usually worn by a male renunciant before ordination) or pink symbolising a state of ambiguity, being on the threshold of a decision, no longer secular and not yet monastic. A key exception to this is in the countries where women are not allowed to wear robes that signify full ordination, Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and (Theravadans in) Vietnam. So, the majority of ayyas wear orange/yellow or white/pink.\n\nThere are very few fully ordained (bhikkhuni) ayyas in the 21st century because the Theravadan nuns' lineage was lost in most of Southeast Asia over the last 1,000 years. The Theravadan bhikkhuni lineage was reinstated in 1996 at Sarnath, India, by a quorum of Theravada monks and Korean nuns. Eleven Sinhalese dasa sil mata nuns took full bhikkhuni ordination in that ceremony, reviving the Theravada Bhikkhuni Order after 980 years of decline and dissipation. Theravadan ordination is available for women (as of 2006) in Sri Lanka, where many of the current bhikkhunis have been ordained. The ordination process has several stages, which can begin with anagarika (non-ordained) precepts and wearing white robes, but is as far as many women are allowed to take their practice. In Thailand, where it is illegal for women to take ordination, nearly all female monastics are known as maechis (also spelled \"mae chee\"), regardless of their level of attainment.\n\nAs awareness of the need for ordained women to study and practice grows, so does the support for female monks. There are very few places for an ayya to reside, once she ordains. The number of monasteries and viharas for women is still small, but increasing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109863", "title": "KSTU", "text": "KSTU\n\nKSTU, virtual channel 13 (UHF digital channel 28), is a Fox-affiliated television station licensed to Salt Lake City, Utah, United States. The station is owned by the E. W. Scripps Company. KSTU's studios are located on West Amelia Earhart Drive in the northwestern section of Salt Lake City, and its transmitter is located on Farnsworth Peak in the Oquirrh Mountains, southwest of Salt Lake City. The station has a large network of broadcast translators that extend its over-the-air coverage throughout Utah, as well as portions of Nevada.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on October 24, 1978 under the ownership of Massachusetts-based Springfield Television, which also owned NBC affiliate WWLP in Springfield, Massachusetts and ABC affiliate WKEF in Dayton, Ohio. It was the first independent station in Utah, as well as the first new commercial station to sign on in Salt Lake City since KUTV (channel 2) hit the airwaves 24 years earlier.\n\nSalt Lake City had a fairly long wait for an independent station compared to other cities of its size; it had been big enough on paper to support one since the early 1960s. However, the Salt Lake City market is one of the largest and most mountainous markets in the country, covering all of Utah and large slices of Idaho, Nevada and Wyoming. The market's three commercial stations, as well as PBS members KUED and KBYU-TV, all needed massive networks of low-power translators to cover it. Additionally, at the time the only available allocations were on the UHF band, and UHF stations have never covered mountainous territory very well. The expense associated with building a translator network, combined with the limitations of UHF, scared off most prospective investors until the 1970s. By the mid-1970s, however, cable television—a must for acceptable television in much of Utah, even in today's digital era—had gotten enough penetration in the market to lessen the need for translators and make an independent station viable.\n\nThe station originally broadcast on UHF channel 20 using a transmitter originally used for WWLP's partial satellite, WRLP-TV in Greenfield, Massachusetts (which closed down shortly before KSTU's sign-on). KSTU's programming at the time was typical for an independent station—cartoons, off-network classic sitcoms, classic movies, and drama series. Springfield Television merged with Adams Communications in 1984. On October 6, 1986, the station became a charter affiliate of Fox. However, like most Fox affiliates early in the network's history, it was still essentially programmed as an independent. Fox initially ran only late night programming at launch and when it added primetime programming in April 1987, it only aired such programs on Saturdays and Sundays. It would not air a full week's worth of programming until 1993.\n\nIn 1980, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) added a new VHF allocation on channel 13 to the Salt Lake City market. Five groups submitted applications for a permit to build a television station on that allocation in May 1981. The FCC held evidentiary hearings with the competing applicants in 1984, and in 1985, announced the winning applicant. The second-place applicant, locally owned Mountain West Television Company, or MWT Company, appealed the FCC decision, but lost the appeal. When that failed, MWT Company proposed a buyout of the other four competing interests, including the winning applicants. The strategy succeeded and was carried out in November 1986. At the same time, Mountain West entered into a limited partnership agreement with Northstar Communications, which was partly owned by Allstate, and a new company, called MWT, Ltd., was formed. On January 20, 1987, the FCC awarded the original construction permit for a new station on channel 13 to MWT, Ltd., under the calls KTMW. However, buying equipment for the new station soon proved difficult.\n\nMeanwhile, Adams Communications was undergoing serious financial difficulties and decided to sell off its stations. There were few takers for channel 20, however. Under the circumstances, it was very receptive to an offer from MWT to buy KSTU's assets for $30 million. Adams was able to make a considerable profit on the deal, while MWT was able to get the equipment it needed at a substantial discount. The two parties reached a sales agreement in July, the sale was approved by the FCC in September, and the transaction was finalized on October 23, 1987.\n\nOn November 9, 1987; MWT moved the channel 20 intellectual unit (call letters, staff, programming and Fox affiliation) to channel 13. It also returned the channel 20 license to the FCC on the same day. As a result, the FCC reckons the current KSTU as a separate station from the old channel 20. MWT went on the air with the new KSTU on channel 13 under Program Test Authority. It requested a license to cover the CP on November 16, which was duly granted on March 7, 1988. \n\nThe purchase of KSTU, however, put a financial strain on MWT, namely on the old Mountain West partners. In May 1988, Mountain West sold its interest in KSTU to Northstar. The station rebranded as Fox 13 by 1989.\n\nNorthstar sold KSTU to Fox Television Stations the next year, making it a Fox owned-and-operated station, and the first network-owned station in Utah. Unlike its rival stations, which have changed networks over the years, KSTU was the only VHF commercial station in Salt Lake City that has remained affiliated with the same network since that network's inception; only KTVX (channel 4), originally an NBC affiliate, has been affiliated with ABC longer than KSTU has been a Fox affiliate.\n\nIncidentally, when Fox Television Stations acquired the television station group owned by KTVX's then-parent Chris-Craft Industries on August 12, 2000 KTVX was one of two stations that the company traded to Clear Channel Communications (as part of a swap with WFTC in Minneapolis–Saint Paul). It was forced to sell KTVX due to FCC regulations prohibiting one company from owning two of the four highest-rated stations in a single market, as well as the fact that the station was in the middle of a long-term affiliation contract with ABC.\n\nThe station replaced most of the classic sitcoms on its lineup with talk shows in the mid-1990s. The station added additional syndicated programming in 2002, once Fox dropped the Fox Kids weekday children's block nationally. In 2006, KSTU migrated its website to Fox Interactive Media's MyFox web platform; it also introduced a new logo, in a style in line with the other Fox O&O stations. However, the Times New Roman \"13,\" which the station has used since 1997, was retained (unlike WHBQ-TV in Memphis, which switched to a \"13\" resembling that used by its Tampa sister station WTVT). KSTU was one of two network-owned stations in the Salt Lake City market from 1995 to 2007, when CBS sold KUTV (channel 2) to Four Points Media Group, a subsidiary of private-equity group Cerberus Capital Management.\n\nOn June 13, 2007, Fox sold KSTU and seven other owned-and-operated stations to Local TV (a subsidiary of another private equity firm Oak Hill Capital Partners), which had acquired the former broadcasting division of The New York Times Company the previous year. The sale was finalized on July 14, 2008. On July 1, 2013, the Tribune Company (which formed a management company that operated both Tribune and Local TV's stations in 2008) acquired the Local TV stations for $2.75 billion; the sale was completed on December 27.\nOn May 8, 2017, Hunt Valley, Maryland-based Sinclair Broadcast Group—owner of KUTV, independent station KJZZ-TV (channel 14), and St. George-based MyNetworkTV affiliate KMYU (channel 12)—entered into an agreement to acquire Tribune Media for $3.9 billion, plus the assumption of $2.7 billion in debt held by Tribune. While KMYU (due to contours that do not overlap) and KJZZ (not ranking in the top four in ratings) are not in conflict with existing FCC in-market ownership rules and would be retained by Sinclair in any event, the group is precluded from acquiring KSTU directly as broadcasters are not currently allowed to legally own more than two full-power television stations in a single market (without satellite exemptions) and both KUTV and KSTU rank among the four highest-rated stations in the Salt Lake City market in total day viewership (Sinclair CEO Christopher Ripley cited Salt Lake City as one of three markets, out of fourteen where ownership conflicts exist between the two groups, where the proposed acquisition would most likely result in divestitures).\n\nSinclair later announced that it would keep its existing assets and sell KSTU to a third party to be determined later, and reports speculated that Sinclair would sell KSTU back to Fox Television Stations. On April 24, 2018, Sinclair announced that KSTU would be one of 23 stations sold to obtain approval for the merger, though it was one of seven stations for which a buyer was not disclosed (KMYU will concurrently be acquired by Howard Stirk Holdings). On May 9, 2018, it was officially announced that Fox Television Stations would buy back KSTU, as part of a $910-million deal that also involved six other Tribune-owned stations (Fox affiliates KTXL/Sacramento, KCPQ/Seattle, KDVR/Denver, WJW/Cleveland and KSWB-TV/San Diego, and CW affiliate WSFL-TV/Miami).\n\nThree weeks after the FCC's July 18 vote to have the deal reviewed by an administrative law judge amid \"serious concerns\" about Sinclair's forthrightness in its applications to sell certain conflict properties, on August 9, 2018, Tribune announced it would terminate the Sinclair deal, intending to seek other M&A opportunities. Tribune also filed a breach of contract lawsuit in the Delaware Chancery Court, alleging that Sinclair engaged in protracted negotiations with the FCC and the U.S. Department of Justice's Antitrust Division over regulatory issues, refused to sell stations in markets where it already had properties, and proposed divestitures to parties with ties to Sinclair executive chair David D. Smith that were rejected or highly subject to rejection to maintain control over stations it was required to sell. The termination of the Sinclair sale agreement places uncertainty for the future of Fox's purchases of KSTU and the other six Tribune stations included in that deal, which were predicated on the closure of the Sinclair–Tribune merger.\n\nOn December 3, 2018, Irving, Texas-based Nexstar Media Group—which has owned KTVX and CW affiliate KUCW (channel 30) since December 2012—announced it would acquire the assets of Tribune Media for $6.4 billion in cash and debt. Nexstar is precluded from acquiring KSTU directly or indirectly, as FCC regulations prohibit common ownership of more than two stations in the same media market, or two or more of the four highest-rated stations in the market. (Furthermore, any attempt by Nexstar to assume the operations of KSTU through local marketing or shared services agreements may be subject to regulatory hurdles that could delay completion of the FCC and Justice Department's review and approval process for the acquisition.) As such, Nexstar will be required to sell either KSTU or KTVX to a separate, unrelated company to address the ownership conflict. (In the case of KSTU, reports preceding the purchase announcement stated that, as it did during the group's failed purchase by Sinclair, Fox Television Stations would seek to acquire certain Fox-affiliated stations owned by Tribune from the eventual buyer of that group. Also, as KUCW does not rank among the top four in total-day viewership and therefore is not in conflict with existing FCC in-market ownership rules, that station optionally can be retained by Nexstar regardless of whether it chooses to retain ownership of KTVX or sell KTVX in order to acquire KSTU or, should it be divested, be sold to the prospective buyer of KTVX.) On March 20, 2019, the Cincinnati-based E. W. Scripps Company announced it would purchase KSTU from Nexstar upon consummation of the merger, marking Scripps' entry into Utah, as part of the company's sale of nineteen Nexstar- and Tribune-operated stations to Scripps and Tegna Inc. in separate deals worth $1.32 billion; once the deal closes, KSTU will become a sister station to Scripps-owned ABC affiliates KTNV-TV in Las Vegas, KNXV-TV in Phoenix, KIVI-TV in Boise (and fellow Fox affiliate KNIN-TV via a local marketing agreement with Gray Television), and KMGH-TV in Denver, the former of which was acquired by Scripps from Journal Media Group in 2014. The sale was completed on September 19, 2019.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKSTU became a charter affiliate of Tribune Broadcasting's Antenna TV upon its launch on January 1, 2011, it is carried on digital subchannel 13.2.\n\nOn December 29, 2017, KSTU added Charge! on digital subchannel 13.4.\n\nOn January 12, 2018, KSTU replaced Justice Network with Stadium on digital subchannel 13.3.\n\nKSTU shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 13, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 28, using PSIP to display KSTU's virtual channel as 13 on digital television receivers.\n\nKSTU presently broadcasts 61½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 10½ hours each weekday and 4½ hours each on Saturdays and Sundays); in regards to the number of hours devoted to news programming, it is the highest local newscast output among Utah's television stations. KSTU's Saturday and Sunday 5 p.m. newscasts are subject to preemption due to network sports coverage, as is standard with Fox stations that carry early evening weekend newscasts.\n\nThe station launched its news department on December 31, 1991, with the debut of a half-hour 9 p.m. newscast; KSTU added a three-hour weekday morning newscast, titled \"Good Day Utah\", in 1996, replacing morning cartoons. In 2005, the station launched a midday newscast at 11 a.m. In August 2008, KSTU entered into a strategic alliance with news/talk radio station KNRS-FM (105.7 FM), in which KSTU meteorologists provide weather reports to KNRS, while KSTU reporters are often heard during KNRS newscasts and talk shows. In September 2008, KSTU debuted an hour-long early evening newscast at 5:00 p.m.\n\nOn August 17, 2009, the station expanded its midday newscast to 90 minutes by adding a half-hour newscast at noon, following its existing hour-long 11:00 a.m. newscast. On January 23, 2010, KSTU debuted a 90-minute weekend morning newscast from 7:30–9:00 a.m. In January 2013, KSTU expanded its weekend morning newscast by one hour to 6:30 a.m. On April 23, 2012, KSTU became the fourth (and last) major network station in Utah to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition. In September 2013, KSTU debuted an hour-long 4 p.m. newscast, which competes with hour-long newscasts on KUTV and KTVX.\n\n\nKSTU extends its coverage throughout the entire state of Utah (with a rebroadcaster KKRP-LD channel 46 – formerly KSTG in Saint George, Utah), plus parts of Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, and Wyoming, using a network of community-owned translator television stations listed below.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109864", "title": "Bassorah Fossa", "text": "Bassorah Fossa\n\nBassorah Fossa is a trough south of Ali Baba crater on Saturn's moon Enceladus. Bassorah Fossa was first seen in \"Voyager 2\" images. It is located at 45.4° north, 6.3° west, and is 131 kilometers long.\n\nBassorah Fossa is named after the city of Basra, Iraq, from which Sindbad embarked on his third voyage in the \"Arabian Nights\".\n"}
{"id": "2109865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109865", "title": "Dolomedes", "text": "Dolomedes\n\nDolomedes is a genus of large spiders of the family Pisauridae. They are also known as fishing spiders, raft spiders, dock spiders or wharf spiders. Almost all \"Dolomedes\" species are semiaquatic, with the exception of the tree-dwelling \"D. albineus\" of the Southeastern United States. Many species have a striking pale stripe down each side of the body.\n\nThey hunt by waiting at the edge of a pool or stream, then when they detect the ripples from prey, they run across the surface to subdue it using their foremost legs, which are tipped with small claws; like other spiders they then inject venom with their hollow jaws to kill and digest the prey. They mainly eat insects, but some larger species are able to catch small fish. They can also climb beneath the water, when they become encased in a silvery film of air. \"\"Dolomedes\"\" is derived from the Greek word \"δολομήδης\" which means wily, deceitful.\n\nThere are over a hundred species of \"Dolomedes\" throughout the world; examples include \"Dolomedes aquaticus\", a forest-stream species of New Zealand, the raft spider (\"D. fimbriatus\"), which lives in bogs in Europe, and the great raft spider (\"D. plantarius\"), which lives in fens, also in Europe. Many species are large, some with females up to long with a leg span of .\n\n\"Dolomedes\" spiders are covered all over in short, velvety hairs which are unwettable (hydrophobic). This allows them to use surface tension to stand or run on the water, like pond skaters. They can also climb beneath the water, and then air becomes trapped in the body hairs and forms a thin film over the whole surface of the body and legs, giving them the appearance of fine polished silver. Like other spiders, \"Dolomedes\" breathe with book lungs beneath their abdomens, and these open into the air film, allowing the spiders to breathe while submerged. The trapped air makes them very buoyant and if they do not hold onto a rock or a plant stem they float to the surface where they pop onto the surface film, completely dry.\n\nRather than hunting on land or by waiting in a web, these spiders hunt on the water surface itself, preying on mayflies, other aquatic insects, and even small fish. For fishing spiders, the water surface serves the same function as a web does for other spiders. They extend their legs onto the surface, feeling for vibrations given off by prey. \n\n\"Dolomedes\" are nocturnal hunters, feeding when birds, their main predators, are sleeping. The method they use to fish for insects is to hold on to the shore with their back legs while the rest of their body lies on the water, with legs stretched out. \"Dolomedes\" species tend to be robust with thickset legs that allow them to tackle prey larger than themselves. They stretch out their front legs and wait, as if listening. Their front legs feel the vibrations carried on the water, just as other spiders feel the vibrations in a web. They are able to tell what is causing the vibrations that the water is carrying - to distinguish the drawn-out, erratic vibrations of a struggling insect from the one-off vibrations caused by falling leaves or the background noise of the wind or the flow of the water around rocks and other obstacles. As well as identifying the source of the vibrations, the spiders are also able to discern the distance to and direction of the source. To this end they have a range of vibration-detecting organs, including very sensitive hairs (trichobothria) on their legs and feet. Their eyes play a secondary role - experiments on related species show that touch is the main sense these spiders use to catch their prey. Their eyes are of little use for nocturnal hunting. These vibration detectors also serve to warn the spider of predators such as trout.\n\nAs soon as the vibrations reveal that there is a floundering insect within range, some fishing spiders may take direct action - they run at pace across the surface of the water and grab the insect before it extracts itself from the water and flies to safety. Some fishing spiders use silk draglines to prevent themselves from speeding past the prey.\n\nFishing spiders' main prey is aquatic insects, but they are opportunistic feeders and will eat anything suitable that happens within range. \"Dolomedes\" in North America have been observed catching and eating small goldfish.\n\nThe main predators of fishing spiders are birds and snakes. Dragonflies have also been observed catching young spiders. Species parasitic on the spiders include a wasp of the Pompilidae family that stings the spider to paralyse it before carrying it off and laying an egg in its abdomen. The larvae of the wasp hatch and proceed to eat the spider from the inside out. One escape technique the spiders use is to disappear beneath the surface tension of the water. However, some wasps counter the disappearing trick by going into the water to sting the spider and drag it out of the water.\n\nThe males outnumber the females 3:1 suggesting a male-biased sex ratio. Mating in one European species always results in the death of the male by self-sacrifice, with no obvious involvement from the female.\n\n, the World Spider Catalog accepted the following species:\n\nThe approximately 100 species of \"Dolomedes\" have a worldwide distribution. The largest number of species are found in Asia, with particularly high species diversity in South-east Asia, from China and Japan to New Guinea. The second largest number of species occur in tropical Africa. South America has only four species.\n\nNine species of \"Dolomedes\" exist in North America. The six-spotted fishing spider (\"D. triton\") lives primarily in small lakes and ponds. This spider consumes mostly water striders (pond skaters), but like all \"Dolomedes\", it is an opportunistic ambush hunter that will eat anything that it can capture. Other species include the bog-dwelling \"D. striatus\", and four species living by streams: \"D. scriptus\", \"D. vittatus\", \"D. gertschi\" and \"D. holti\". Two North American species, \"D. tenebrosus\" and \"D. okefinokensis\", exhibit female giganticism and/or male dwarfism, with their males being less than half the size of the females. The ninth species is the arboreal \"D. albineus\".\n\nTwo \"Dolomedes\" species occur in Europe (excluding Russia). The Palearctic raft spider (\"D. fimbriatus\") is widespread on the surface of bog pools and in boggy grassland. The great raft spider (\"D. plantarius\") lives in fens, and is listed as endangered in Great Britain and is globally vulnerable.\n\nFour species occur in New Zealand. Two are widespread: the large \"Dolomedes aquaticus\" of open riverbanks, and the similar size \"Dolomedes dondalei\" or New Zealand forest fishing spider (once referred to as \"Dolomedes\" III), which specialises in forested riverbanks. The largest of the New Zealand species \"Dolomedes schauinslandi\" or Rangatira spider occurs in the Chatham Islands, where it occurs on rodent-free islands where running water is rare. The fourth species, \"D. minor\", is also not restricted to rivers. Known as the nursery web spider, it makes white nursery webs on shrubs, but is still capable of fishing behaviour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109872", "title": "Mayinga N'Seka", "text": "Mayinga N'Seka\n\nMayinga N'Seka (1954 – October 19, 1976) was a nurse in Zaïre, now Democratic Republic of the Congo. She died from Ebola virus disease during the 1976 epidemic in Zaïre. She has been incorrectly identified as the index case by several sources, but a World Health Organization commission report on the outbreak lists a man from Yambuku, Mabalo Lokela, as the index case.\n\nN'Seka worked as a nurse at Mbalad hospital in Kinshasa and contracted Ebola after caring for a nun who had flown in for treatment from the Yambuku Mission Hospital, where the outbreak began. Mayinga died at Ngaleima Hospital on 19 October 1976. There were 318 cases in this outbreak, which had an 88% mortality rate.\n\nIn his book about the 1976 outbreak, \"Ebola\", William Close writes that N'Seka had treated a nun, Sister Fermina, who worked at the Catholic mission in Yambuku, the center of the outbreak. Fermina died at the hospital in Kinshasa while trying to return to Belgium so a diagnosis on the disease could be performed. The highly infectious and deadly nature of the disease was still unknown when N'Seka treated Fermina, and no special precautions were taken to prevent contact with the nun's blood or fluids. 22-year-old N'Seka was preparing to travel to Europe to study advanced nursing on a scholarship at the time of her death. N'Seka was born in 1954.\n\nThe variant of the Ebola virus that infected N'Seka was originally named \"Zaïre virus strain Mayinga\" (now Ebola virus variant Mayinga; EBOV/May), and is the prototype virus for the species \"Zaire ebolavirus\", which is itself the type species for the genus \"Ebolavirus\".\n\nN'Seka's blood has also been used all over the world in procuring various strain frequencies and structures about Ebola virus.\n"}
{"id": "2109874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109874", "title": "Virtual routing and forwarding", "text": "Virtual routing and forwarding\n\nIn IP-based computer networks, virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) is a technology that allows multiple instances of a routing table to co-exist within the same router at the same time. One or more logical or physical interfaces may have a VRF and these VRFs do not share routes therefore the packets are only forwarded between interfaces on the same VRF. VRFs are the TCP/IP layer 3 equivalent of a VLAN. Because the routing instances are independent, the same or overlapping IP addresses can be used without conflicting with each other. Network functionality is improved because network paths can be segmented without requiring multiple routers .\n\nThe simplest form of VRF implementation is VRF Lite . In this implementation, each router within the network participates in the virtual routing environment in a peer-based fashion. While simple to deploy and appropriate for small to medium enterprises and shared data centers, VRF Lite does not scale to the size required by global enterprises or large carriers, as there is the need to implement each VRF instance on every router, including intermediate routers. VRFs were initially introduced in combination with Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS), but VRF proved to be so useful that it eventually evolved to live independent of MPLS. This is the historical explanation of the term VRF Lite: usage of VRFs without MPLS.\n\nThe scaling limitations of VRF Lite are resolved by the implementation of IP VPNs. In this implementation, a core backbone network is responsible for the transmission of data across the wide area between VRF instances at each edge location. IP VPNs have been traditionally deployed by carriers to provide a shared wide-area backbone network for multiple customers. They are also appropriate in the large enterprise, multi-tenant and shared data center environments.\n\nIn a typical deployment, customer edge (CE) routers handle local routing in a traditional fashion and disseminate routing information into the provider edge (PE) where the routing tables are virtualized. The PE router then encapsulates the traffic, marks it to identify the VRF instance, and transmits it across the provider backbone network to the destination PE router. The destination PE router then decapsulates the traffic and forwards it to the CE router at the destination. The backbone network is completely transparent to the customer equipment, allowing multiple customers or user communities to utilize the common backbone network while maintaining end-to-end traffic separation.\n\nRoutes across the provider backbone network are maintained using an interior gateway protocol – typically iBGP. IBGP uses \"extended community\" attributes in a common routing table to differentiate the customers' routes with overlapping IP addresses.\n\nIP VPN is most commonly deployed across an MPLS backbone as the inherent labeling of packets in MPLS lends itself to the identification of the customer VRF. Some IP VPN implementations (notably Nortel's IP-VPN Lite) utilize a simpler IP-in-IP encapsulation over a pure IP backbone, eliminating the need to maintain and support an MPLS environment.\n\n, the key element in the Cisco MPLS VPN technology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109875", "title": "ROCS Tian Dan (PFG2-1110)", "text": "ROCS Tian Dan (PFG2-1110)\n\nROCS \"Tian Dan\" (, PFG2-1110) is the eighth ship of the \"Cheng Kung\"-class guided-missile frigates of the Republic of China Navy, which was based on the \"Oliver Hazard Perry\" class of the United States Navy. \"Tian Dan\" was laid down in December 2001, launched on 17 October 2002, and commissioned on 11 March 2004. \n\nThe relatively large six year time gap between the construction of \"Tian Dan\" and the previous \"Cheng Kung\"-class frigate, \"Chang Chien\", can be accounted for by the fact that \"Tian Dan\" was not intended to be of the standard \"Cheng Kung\" design. Initially, the design of \"Tian Dan\" was to have been modified to receive a lighter version of the Aegis combat system that would later become the SPY-1F; and the drawings looked very much like the Spanish Navy \"Álvaro de Bazán\" (F-100) class frigates. However, due to uncertain risks at the time, such as the need for ROCN to bear the full cost of the SPY-1F design, and concerns of putting such a system on a small hull, the ROCN was forced to abandon this ambitious plan by mid 1990s. In addition to \"Tian Dan\", the original plan called for three more SPY-1F AGEIS type frigates. \"Álvaro de Bazán\" can be seen as a realization of this plan with SPY-1F system.\n\nLike her sister ships, \"Tian Dan\" was constructed by China SB Corp., at its primary shipyard in Kaohsiung City, Taiwan, Republic of China. But this ship is different from her sister ships by not having the two Bofors 40mm/L70 guns installed. \"Tian Dan\" is named after Tian Dan, a general of the Warring States period.\n\n, \"Tian Dan\" is home ported at ROCN Tso-Ying naval base.\n\nOn March14, 2014, Tian Dan, along with two of Taiwan's Coastguard patrol vessels, arrived in the South China Sea between Malaysia and Vietnam to join the multi-national search and rescue operation for the missing Malaysia Airlines MH370 flight.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109877", "title": "Torrey Pines State Beach", "text": "Torrey Pines State Beach\n\nTorrey Pines State Beach is a coastal beach located in the San Diego, California community of Torrey Pines, and is located south of Del Mar and north of La Jolla. Coastal erosion from the adjacent Torrey Pines State Reserve makes for a picturesque landscape. It is a local favorite among surfers and remains a quintessential Southern California beach. Occurrences of bioluminescence have been noted.\n\nThe beach is at the bottom of 300 foot sandstone cliffs of white and golden stone, with a greenish layer sometimes visible at the very bottom. At the north end of the beach the cliffs ends and Los Peñasquitos Lagoon, a salt marsh estuary, empties into the ocean. A county highway crosses the entrance, with limited free parking along the beach.\n\nThe beach area supports a number of avifaunal (bird) species in addition to the marine biota. Soledad Valley, which includes the notable coastal marsh, Los Peñasquitos Lagoon, is cut by a coastal stream which discharges into the Pacific Ocean at Torrey Pines State Beach. The endangered nominal subspecies of Torrey Pine, \"Pinus torreyana torreyana\", is found only on the small coastal strips north and south of Torrey Pines State Beach.\n\nWaves ranging from the low 3-footers to the high 6-8 footers can be found on the north side of Torrey Pines State Beach. The Northern side of the beach has a Surfer/Surfing side while the Southern side hosts swimming, body boarding, etc. There is a red/yellow flag on the north part of the beach showing the boundary between the surfing side and body boarding side. A good rule of thumb is to occasionally check where the flag is as it moves from time to time during the day.\n\nThe beach is usually not very crowded in the early hours of the day, when primarily surfers and body boarders are present. During that time, the boundary of the surfing and body boarding areas is not as strictly enforced, as long as common courtesy is being used on both sides. The most popular part of the beach is the swimming area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109887", "title": "Justice Sunday", "text": "Justice Sunday\n\nJustice Sunday was a series of religious conferences organized by the Family Research Council, founded by James Dobson and headed by Tony Perkins, and Dobson's Focus on the Family organizations. According to FRC, the purpose of the events was to \"request an end to filibusters of judicial nominees that were based, at least in part, on the nominees' religious views or imputed inability to decide cases on the basis of the law regardless of their beliefs.\" \nThree such conferences were held. Perkins and Dobson have been present as speakers at all events, and some conservative politicians, including Zell Miller, Tom DeLay and Bill Frist have also made appearances.\n\nThe first Justice Sunday, subtitled \"Stopping the Filibuster Against People of Faith,\" was organized primarily to protest a perceived bias on the part of the Federal Judiciary of the United States. The organizers hoped to provoke large numbers of evangelical Christians to place pressure on U.S. Senators to bring an end to the filibuster of nominees to the Federal Judiciary made by President George W. Bush. Their web site featured a letter dated April 20, 2005, four days before the event took place, which sought to assuage churches' fears of challenges to their tax-exempt status under laws prohibiting political activity by tax-exempt churches . The two sponsoring organizations did not choose to sponsor the program directly, but did so through their legally separate lobbying organizations FRC Action and Focus on the Family Action .\n\nThe nationally televised event took place at Highview Baptist Church in Louisville, Kentucky. The program featured James Dobson, R. Albert Mohler, Jr., Watergate-convicted criminal-turned-evangelical Charles Colson and, via videotape, Republican U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist.\n\nThe organizers of the event were criticized for holding this event, dubbed \"Just-us Sunday\" by some critics. Some felt that this was an attempt to demonize opponents of conservatives as being against religion; others felt that this was an attempt to politicize religion. Still others felt that this was an attempt to undermine the independence of the Federal Judiciary. Among those opposed to the event were a number of religious leaders from a wide spectrum of faiths — including Catholic, Jewish, Protestant, and Eastern Orthodox leaders.\n\nAn equally successful counter rally was held at Central Presbyterian Church in Louisville, KY called \"Social Justice Sunday.\" Here, speakers such as Jim Wallis reaffirmed their support of the United States Justice System towards people of faith. Furthermore, they voiced their opinions that the actions at Highview Baptist Church did not speak for them.\n\nA sequel to the first Justice Sunday, subtitled \"God Save the United States and this Honorable Court\" event was held on August 14, 2005 in Nashville, Tennessee. Conspicuously absent from the event was U. S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, who had recently drawn fire for departing from U. S. President George W. Bush's policy on stem cell research.\n\nSpeakers included Tony Perkins, James Dobson, Robert H. Bork, Tom DeLay, Zell Miller, Chuck Colson, Phyllis Schlafly, William A. Donohue, Harry R. Jackson, Jr., and Dr. Jerry Sutton.\n\nA third Justice Sunday event, subtitled \"Proclaim Liberty Throughout the Land\" took place January 8, 2006, the day before Samuel Alito's confirmation hearings for the Supreme Court began. The event took place in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania at the Greater Exodus Baptist Church.\n\nGreater Exodus is led by Pastor Herbert H. Lusk, II. Lusk explains his reasoning by saying, that he wants the government to \"appoint people to the justice system\nthat would be attentive to the needs I care about - stopping same-sex marriage, assisted suicide and abortions for minors and supporting prayer and Christmas celebrations in school.\"\n\nJames Dobson, Tony Perkins and Jerry Falwell took part as speakers, as well as Alveda King and Rick Santorum. Members from the local community and various organizations including Planned Parenthood and The World Can't Wait stood outside and protested the event.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109893", "title": "Thomas Collins", "text": "Thomas Collins\n\nThomas Collins may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109894", "title": "WRNN", "text": "WRNN\n\nWRNN may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2109923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109923", "title": "Maximus of Ephesus", "text": "Maximus of Ephesus\n\nMaximus of Ephesus (; c. 310 – 372 AD) was a Neoplatonist philosopher. He is said to have come from a rich family, and exercised great influence over the emperor Julian, who was commended to him by Aedesius. He pandered to the emperor's love of magic and theurgy, and by judicious administration of the omens won a high position at court. His overbearing manner made him numerous enemies, and, after being imprisoned after the death of Julian, he was put to death by Valens.\n\nThe most detailed source for the life of Maximus is Eunapius in his \"Lives of the Sophists\", but he is also referred to by Ammianus Marcellinus, the emperor Julian, and Libanius. Christian writers also discuss him, albeit in very negative terms.\n\nMaximus was born around the beginning of the 4th century. Ammianus Marcellinus calls Ephesus the hometown of Maximus. This is doubted by some scholars, but it is certain that he originated from the west of Asia Minor. His parents were wealthy. Maximus had a brother named Claudianus, who also became a philosopher. Another brother, Nymphidianus, was appointed by emperor Julian \"Magister epistolarum graecarum\" (secretary for Greek correspondence). Ammonius Hermiae reported that Maximus was a pupil of the Neoplatonist \"Hierius\".\n\nFrom around 335–350 Maximus was in Pergamon as a pupil of Aedesius. While he was there, Maximus studied alongside Chrysanthius, Eusebius of Myndus, and Priscus. Many Neoplatonists practiced theurgy (attempting to commune with God by special ritual actions), and there is a testimony according to which Maximus successfully broke a love-spell which had been cast on the philosopher Sosipatra by one of her relatives.\n\nAround 350, Maximus left Pergamon in order to work in Ephesus as a philosophy teacher. Apparently Christians also participated in his instruction: a Christian named Sisinnius, who later became a Novatianist bishop in Constantinople, is said to have studied with Maximus. In 351, the later emperor Julian went to Pergamon, in order to study with Aedesius. Whilst there, Eusebius warned Julian against getting involved with the magic arts practised by Maximus, but his warning had the opposite effect, and Julian went to Ephesus between May 351 and April 352, in order to continue his training with Maximus there.\n\nIn November 355, Julian was appointed Caesar, and Julian remained in contact with Maximus. In 361, as emperor, Julian invited Priscus and Maximus to Constantinople. The two philosophers accepted the invitation. Maximus did not let himself be deterred by unfavorable omens, but is said to have explained that it was possible to force the favour of the gods. Both Neoplatonists from then on remained near the emperor, who used them as religious-philosophical advisors and discussion partners. Eunapius states that Maximus and Priscus had no political authority, but also writes that Maximus became arrogantly inaccessible and used his influential position to personally enrich himself. Maximus travelled in the summer of 362 with Julian to Antioch, and then in March 363 on the Persia campaign. Before the emperor died on 26 June 363 from a combat injury, he held a last philosophical conversation with Maximus and Priscus.\n\nMaximus continued to receive imperial favour under the emperor Jovian, but after Jovian's death his enemies came after him. In spring 364 he was accused of causing a lengthy illness in the new emperors Valentinian I and Valens. This accusation could not be confirmed, and was dropped. But his numerous opponents did not relent; in 365/366 he was again arrested and accused of having illegitimately enriched himself. A high fine was imposed, and he was sent \"to Asia\" - probably into his homeland – to find the penalty. Because he was not able to pay, he was tortured. Eunapius reported that Maximus wanted to kill himself, as he could no longer bear the pain, and his wife procured some poison. His wife drank the poison first, but Maximus then did not drink.\n\nLater the proconsul of Asia, Clearchus, who was a supporter of the old religion, helped the prisoner. Clearchus provided for the release of the philosopher and restored a large part of his properties, which he had lost. Maximus began teaching philosophy again, and even dared to return to Constantinople.\n\nAround 370, Emperor Valens was informed that a group of individuals had consulted an oracle to find out who the next emperor would be and were told the next emperor's name would begin with the letters \"Theod\" and that the emperor Valens would \"die a strange death, and would not be given burial or the honour of a tomb\". As a result, Valens resorted to a massacre of individuals with those letters at the beginning of their names, the persecution falling heavily on polytheistic philosophers. This persecution made Valens detestable to his subjects. Eunapius indicates that Maximus was falsely implicated in the oracle plot but nonetheless was executed by Festus, the new proconsul of Asia, in 372. The next Roman Emperor was Theodosius I.\n\nThe Suda says that Maximus wrote a number of works including \"On Insoluble Contradictions\", \"On Forecasts\", \"On Numbers\", and a commentary on Aristotle. Two lost commentaries are testified from other sources: one on the \"Categories\", from which a fragment survives, and one on the \"Prior Analytics\", to which Themistius responded. Maximus is reported to have agreed with Eusebius, Iamblichus and Porphyry in asserting the perfection of the second and third figures of the syllogism.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109925", "title": "Southern Seminary", "text": "Southern Seminary\n\nSouthern Seminary may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2109926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109926", "title": "Rio Sul Serviços Aéreos Regionais", "text": "Rio Sul Serviços Aéreos Regionais\n\nRio-Sul Serviços Aéreos Regionais S/A was a regional airline headquartered in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, operating scheduled services to southern Brazil. Its main base was Congonhas Domestic Airport (CGH), São Paulo, with hubs at Porto Alegre Airport (POA) and Santos Dumont Airport, Rio de Janeiro.\n\nOn November 11, 1975 the Brazilian Federal Government created the Brazilian Integrated System of Regional Air Transportation and divided the country in five different regions, for which five newly created regional airlines received a concession to operate air services. RIO-SUL Serviços Aéreos Regionais S/A was the fourth of those regional airlines to be made operational. Founded on August 24, 1976, Rio Sul had its services start on September 8, 1976. Its operational area comprised roughly the Southern and parts of the Southeast regions of Brazil, specifically the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Paraná, Rio de Janeiro, and parts of São Paulo, and Espírito Santo.\n\nThe airline was originally formed by Top Táxi Aéreo, Bradesco Bank, Atlântica-Boavista Insurance, and Varig.\n\nIn 1992 the National Conference of Civil Aviation abolished the geographical division of the country and allowed further expansion in national and regional routes, prompting Rio Sul to acquire Nordeste Linhas Aéreas Regionais in 1995. It was then owned by Varig Participações em Transportes Aéreos (VPTA).\n\nIn 2002 the administration of Rio Sul (which included its former subsidiary Nordeste) were merged with Varig. The brand Rio Sul was part of the assets sold as VRG Linhas Aéreas although its debts remained under the judicial entity Viação Aérea Rio-Grandense, which uses the brand name Flex Linhas Aéreas. As a result of accumulated debts around BRL10 billion (US$5,7 billion, EUR4,5 billion), on August 20, 2010, at the request of the administrator, the 1st Business Court of Rio de Janeiro declared Flex, which included remaining assets of Rio-Sul, bankrupt and initiated the process of liquidation.\n\nRio Sul Serviços Aéreos Regionais operated services to the following scheduled domestic destinations (at January 2005): Caxias do Sul, Belo Horizonte, Brasília, Londrina, Maringá, Passo Fundo, São Paulo and Vitória.\n\nThe Rio Sul Serviços Aéreos Regionais fleet consisted of the following aircraft:\n\nAccording to the Aviation Safety Network's database, Rio Sul Serviços Aéreos Regionais has never experienced a fatal accident in its 26-year-history, though four hull-losses have occurred:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109932", "title": "Desert red bat", "text": "Desert red bat\n\nThe desert red bat (\"Lasiurus blossevillii\"), also known as the western red bat, or southern red bat, is one of many species of bats. This particular one is from the family Vespertilionidae, which is the largest bat family. This species and its relative \"Lasiurus borealis\" are sometimes just referred to as red bats.\n\nThe desert red bat has been found around North America, ranging from southern Canada, through the western United States, down to Central America and to the northern part of South America. The species is recorded in Argentina, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador (Galápagos Islands), El Salvador, French Guiana, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, United States, Uruguay and Venezuela. These bats are migratory, similar to birds. They migrate to the southern parts of the Americas when it gets cold, and head north when the weather starts to warm up in northern parts.\n\nThe common name implies that the desert red bat lives in the desert, but it does not. Unlike many bats, which roost in caves, desert red bats will most likely be found in the forest roosting under leaves. They do this because they are either trying to eat or hide from predators. The bats hang upside down from a tree branch from one foot because they are trying to blend in with their surroundings, such as dead leaves.\n\nThe desert red bat eats a variety of insects. They eat moths, flies, true bugs, beetles, and cicadas. The desert red bat is a nocturnal animal (it is active at night). They use animal echolocation to hunt. While they hunt, they have to be aware of predators, which include owls, blue jays, raccoons and opossum.\n\nUnlike most bats, which bear only one pup per season, the desert red bat can give birth to as many as four pups at once. Also unlike most bats, desert red bats (and other members of the genus \"Lasiurus\") have four nipples rather than two, allowing them to nurse that many pups. The bats mate during August and September. Pups are born about 90 days after mating. Before the bats are able to fly, the mother carries up to four pups at a time. It takes up to six weeks for the bats to fly by themselves and one to three years to mature.\n\nMale and female red bats have different migrating routines. Female bats are usually found in warmer climates during the month of June.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109945", "title": "List of Ayyavazhi organisations", "text": "List of Ayyavazhi organisations\n\nThere are a number of religious organisations in Ayyavazhi religion across South India.\n\n\nhttp://ayyavaikundar.com/\n"}
{"id": "2109955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109955", "title": "Marble Rocks", "text": "Marble Rocks\n\nThe Marble Rocks is an area along the Narmada river in central India near the city of Jabalpur; in Bhedaghat of Jabalpur District, in the state of Madhya Pradesh. The river has carved the soft marble, creating a beautiful gorge of about 8 km in length. It is a popular Indian tourist destination. The local marble is mined and carved into various figures and transported all over India.\n\nThe Marble Rocks are a gorge along part of the Narmada River’s 1,077 km (669.2 mi) path through Madhya Pradesh. Earlier, the Gorge was narrow in size and hence, monkeys could cross over from one side to another. This gave the Gorge its local name- Bandar Kudni (meaning- Monkey's jumping place). The white marbles are predominantly rich in magnesium and are closer in hardness to soap stone. This softness allows them to be carved. The area also contains blue and brown colored marble.\n\nThe area has many tourist activities. There is a cable car to take visitors across the gorge, row boats for guided tours of the river downstream of the falls, and many small shops filled with crafts made from the local materials. The most beautiful time for boating is during Purnima; especially during Kojagari Puja on Sharad Purnima, wherein boating is considered healing for the body and soul.On Kaumudi celebration as it is also called; it's believed that the moon showers elixir or Amrit on Earth through its beams, as the moon and the earth are at closer distance on Sharad Purnima night, and due to this, the moonlight has magical healing properties which are said to nourish the body and soul of an individual. The moonlight on Purnima has magic healing properties, which is why it's acknowledged to shower \"Amrit Varsha\" (Elixir shower) on the Narmada river which meanders through the pristine rocks. Both bathing and boating are also considered very sacred on Kartik Purnima in the holy Kartik (month).\n\n"}
{"id": "2109958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109958", "title": "Doce Pares", "text": "Doce Pares\n\nDoce Pares (Spanish for \"twelve pairs\" or \"twelve equals\") is a form of Arnis, Kali and Eskrima, or a Filipino martial art that focuses primarily on stick fighting, knife fighting and hand-to-hand combat but also covers grappling and other weapons as well. In reality, the stick is merely considered an extension of the hand, and is meant to represent almost any weapon, from sticks to swords to knives to anything else you can place in your hand and use as a weapon in the modern context. Doce Pares was founded in 1932.\n\nFollowing the death of Ciriaco Canete in February 2016 there are only two surviving Doce Pares Supreme Grandmasters, Dionisio Canete and Danny Guba.\n\nIn the late 1920s, \"Eskrima\" attained a high level of popularity in Cebu City, the second largest city in the Philippines. In 1932, the most renowned \"eskrimadors\", mainly from Cebu, founded \"Doce Pares\" as a society to promote the only original native martial art of the Philippines. The name \"Doce Pares\" is Spanish, taken from the Twelve Peers or Paladins of Emperor Charlemagne, whose legend the Spanish transmitted to the Philippines through popular literature and theater. To mirror the Twelve Peers, the Doce Pares school had twelve founding masters.\n\nLorenzo Saavedra, one of the original twelve masters, was recognized as the foremost \"eskrimador\" in Cebu City. He was ably supported by four other top-rated \"eskrimadors\": Teodoro and Federico Saavedra, his nephews, and Lorenzo and Filemon Cañete.\n\nEulogio Cañete, Filemon's older brother, was elected first president of Doce Pares and remained in that position until his death in 1988. A younger Cañete brother, Ciriaco \"Cacoy\" Cañete, concentrated on boxing but later became an \"eskrimador\" while also training in Judo and other arts which he incorporated into his system, one component of which is called \"Eskrido\".\n\nLater, Teodoro Saavedra rose to prominence as the best fighter in the \"Doce Pares\" society. Saavedra, an active guerrilla fighter, was captured and killed by the occupying Japanese forces in World War II.\n\nVenancio Bacon was among the first members in the club and a few months later left the club due to arguments that the Doce Pares system was not an effective escrima and founded Balintawak Eskrima.\n\nIn the early 1950s, \"Eskrima\" techniques and tactics were analyzed, devised, modified and systematized by Cacoy Cañete, based mostly on actual combat experience with other \"eskrimadors\" belonging to rival \"Eskrima\" schools. Among his many contributions to the development of this martial art is \"Eskrido\", a combination of judo and \"Eskrima\" techniques, as well as the most modern forms of Eskrima-offense and Eskrima-defense.\n\nOf the second generation of Doce Pares eskrimadors, only Cacoy Canete - now 95, and around 12 years old at the founding of Doce Pares in 1932 - and his right hand Fernando Candawan Sr. are still alive (SGM Cacoy died February 5, 2016). However, several senior instructors, foremost Dionisio \"Diony\" Canete (ODL), nephew of Cacoy Canete, who belong to the third generation of \"eskrimadores\" are very much active, teaching their own interpretation or styles of \"Doce Pares Eskrima\". SGM Cacoy Canete and his style are survived by his children and grandchildren, many of whom are top instructors in Cacoy Doce Pares in the Philippines and United States.\n\nDuring the late 1970s and early 1980s, Cacoy's nephew - Dionisio Canete, a well-known attorney and eskrimador since childhood - began to develop formalized rules for Arnis competitions, in order to replace the all-out street brawls that Cacoy was known for, but which repelled most people from training in Arnis, or especially sending their children to train. Diony believed that the art of Eskrima - the martial art of the Philippines - could die if it were not civilized and formalized for the modern era and made accessible to anyone, regardless of age, nationality, background, etc. This began the era of modern Eskrima, with formalized curriculums, tournaments, and so on. Dionisio was also the first to develop full-body armor for tournament sparring. The new tournament rules and armor came together under the World Eskrima Kali Arnis Federation (WEKAF), founded in 1987. Additionally, Dionisio was commissioned by the Philippine government to create a curriculum incorporating all styles of arnis/eskrima from the various Philippine islands. The purpose was to engender and preserve the art of Arnis as a Philippine national treasure. The multi-style Doce Pares system is now the only officially government recognized Arnis curriculum, to be taught in public schools in furtherance of a law that made Arnis the official sport of the Philippines. Doce Pares Inc. (Dionisio, multi-style Doce Pares), is located at 30/31 Eagle Street, in Santo Nino Village, Banilad section of Cebu City, Philippines.\n\nCacoy Canete began to develop a system separate from the Doce Pares multi-style system and form Cacoy Doce Pares World Federation. Rather than incorporate the multiple styles of arnis originally found throughout the Philippines - the original styles that formed Doce Pares in 1932 - he eliminated most long and middle range styles (such as sword and long-bow), and focused almost heavily on close-range combat technique, especially Corta Corbada (curved strikes). This was largely a result of Cacoy Canete's vast experience with actual combat with not only competing Arnis systems, but also as a guerrilla fighter against the Japanese during WWII, rumored to comprise over 100 no-holds-barred contests wherein waivers were signed releasing both parties from any liability for injuries or death. \nDoce Pares has produced many champions in \"Eskrima\" competitions.\n\nNonetheless, the third generation of Doce Pares Arnis masters, who are mostly in their 60s and 70s - including his nephew Diony, Bonifacio \"Loloy\" Uy of BDU Arnis and his cousin Alexander \"Wagoy\" Origenes-Parojinog, etc. - owe their training and teaching experience to Cacoy Canete, son of one of the original members of Doce Pares.\n\nCacoy Doce Pares Eskrima is a form of Doce Pares which utilizes a 29-inch rattan stick. The close quarter style is known as \"\"Corto Kurbada\"\" and is characterized by the curving strikes which are employed within its sparring methodology. Cacoy Doce Pares is promoted by Ciriaco \"Cacoy\" Cañete. In 1951 Cañete incorporated concepts and techniques from aikido and judo which can be applied in sparring this is known as \"\"Eskrido\"\". The system teaches double stick (penki-penki), stick & dagger (olisi y baraw) and empty handed applications (pangamot).\n\nIn 1981, Cañete travelled to the Kali Academy in Torrance, California to teach Cacoy Doce and Eskrido in the United States. The seminar was hosted by Dan Inosanto and Richard Bustillo, Bustillo went on to promote the art in the USA and abroad.\n\nThe National Arnis Association of the Philippines conducted the First Open Arnis Tournament on March 24, 1979, in Cebu City and the First National Invitational Arnis Tournament on August 19, 1979, in Manila. In both tournaments, \"Doce Pares\" emerged as Champion when one stick technique was applied in the Masters Division and most of the other divisions.\n\nDuring the Third National Arnis Tournament in Cebu City, March 16, 1985, the \"Doce Pares\" contestants made a clean sweep of all championship awards in all categories – Openweight, Heavyweight, Middleweight and Lightweight. Most runner-up honors also went to \"Doce Pares\" practitioners. Such was the reputation of invincibility of \"Doce Pares\" contestants that in the Fourth National Arnis Tournament, which took place in Bacolod City, on July 26, 1986, \"Doce Pares\" officers and members were invited only as observers and officials, not as contestants. Since its founding, \"Doce Pares\" has enjoyed a special reputation among Philippine martial arts organizations as the developer and innovator after adaptating newest styles and techniques.\n\nGuba Doce Pares International is a worldwide system founded by Supreme Grandmaster Danny Guba, with headquarters in London, UK. Currently there are Guba Doce Pares International schools and practitioners in over 40 countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109960", "title": "The Alexandra, Birmingham", "text": "The Alexandra, Birmingham\n\nThe Alexandra, commonly known as the Alex, is a theatre on Suffolk Queensway in Birmingham, England.\n\nConstruction of the theatre commenced in 1900 and was completed in 1901. The architects were Owen & Ward and the theatre was opened on 27 May 1901 as the \"Lyceum Theatre\" on John Bright Street. Initially it attracted few theatre goers and it was decided to bring in a star. For ten weeks from the middle of June 1901 H. A. Saintsbury trod the boards as the theatre's leading man, playing in costume dramas.\n\nAs a result of disappointingly low returns the new theatre was sold to Lester Collingwood for £4,000, who renamed it the \"Alexandra Theatre\" on 22 December 1902. Collingwood was killed in a road traffic accident in 1910 and was succeeded by Leon Salberg, who died in his office at the theatre in 1938. His ghost is said to inhabit the theatre. Other ghostly sightings include that by a cleaner of a woman dressed in grey in 1987.\n\nThe theatre was rebuilt with a fine Art Deco auditorium in 1935 to a design by Roland Satchwell. Upon Leon Salberg's death, Derek Salberg took over the running of the theatre. The Salberg family ran the theatre from 1911 to 1977. Following World War II, the theatre became well patronised by the local population - in 1950 85% of season ticket holders lived within the boundaries of Birmingham.\n\nAlthough the main entrance was originally situated on John Bright Street, a new main entrance block was built on Suffolk Street between 1967-1969 to a design by the John Madin Design Group, with a wide bridge linking the two - from the inside, the appearance is that of a single building. Satchwell's interior was refurbished in 1992 by the Seymour Harris Partnership. The Alex was sold to Apollo Leisure in the 1990s. Derek Salberg's autobiography \"\"Much Ado About Theatre\"\" had its foreword written by Laurence Olivier. Under Leon Salberg, the Alex was famous for its pantomimes such as \"\"Mother Goose\"\".\n\nThe theatre currently seats 1,371 and hosts a busy programme of touring drama, West End shows and stand-up comedy. It was the home of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company between 1990 and 1997.\n\nNeville Chamberlain delivered a speech at the theatre on 13 October 1918.\n\n\"Dad's Army\" star Arthur Lowe collapsed because of a stroke in his dressing room in the theatre before a performance of \"Home at Seven\", and later died in hospital on 15 April 1982 aged 66.\n\nOn 7 August 1995, the then Alexandra Theatre was taken over by the multi-national organisation the Apollo Leisure Group. The new owners who ran many West End theatres brought many large scale West End productions to the Alex including \"Copacabana\", \"Great Expectations\", \"Grease\" and \"Summer Holiday\" starring Darren Day. A critically acclaimed production of \"West Side Story\" transferred to the West End for a successful run.\n\nUnder the ownership of Apollo Leisure, the Alex saw major investment including improvements to the stage area and front of house areas, this then enabled the theatre to stage first-rate productions including two productions from Cameron Mackintosh, \"Oliver!\" starring Gary Wilmot, and \"Les Misérables\" - the first productions to try out the new facilities.\n\nIn 1999 the Apollo Leisure Group was bought by American entertainment company SFX Entertainment for around £160 million. Under SFX management the theatre saw increased entertainment value, still welcoming West End productions such as \"Doctor Dolittle\", and in Christmas 2000 saw the return of pantomime to the theatre, with a sell out season of \"Peter Pan\" starring Leslie Grantham and Joe Pasquale. \nIn 2001, SFX merged with Clear Channel Entertainment, making them the largest UK theatre operator, including three West End theatres. Under the ownership of Clear Channel the theatre continued to provide and attract a range of entertainment, including musicals, comedy, plays, opera and concerts.\n\nComedians including Stewart Lee, Seann Walsh, Jack Dee and Micky Flanagan have all performed at the theatre in recent years.\n\nIn January 2006 the Alexandra Theatre changed management once again, to be managed by Live Nation, a company that specialised in concert promotion and large venue operations. It is now owned by the Ambassador Theatre Group, and after a minor refurbishment the group renamed the theatre the \"New Alexandra Theatre\".\n\nWestlife lead vocalist Shane Filan played at the theatre as a solo artist in 2017.\n\nOn 17 September 2018, the theatre was relaunched as \"The Alexandra\" following a £650,000 refurbishment and corporate re-brand to the venue which will be unveiled in October 2018 for the opening of the UK tour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2109968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109968", "title": "Sixty Six Steps", "text": "Sixty Six Steps\n\nSixty Six Steps is the second studio album from Leo Kottke and Mike Gordon. It was released on August 23, 2005.\n\nAlthough the album was recorded in just a few months, it has been an idea in Gordon's mind for decades. Since Gordon went on a trip to the Bahamas with his family in his childhood, he has always been fascinated with the calypso band, The Mustangs. “Ya Mar,” one of the songs Gordon heard on the trip, eventually became a staple of Phish’s live shows.\n\nMost of the songs were written and arranged in Costa Rica and were then recorded in Nassau, Bahamas.\n\nPercussionist Neil Symonette is also featured playing a multitude of percussion including caxixi, goats' hooves, talking drums, tire hub, djembe, thrasher, fish shakers, and uda drums.\n\nThe album also features a number of cover songs, ranging from Fleetwood Mac's \"Oh Well\" to Pete Seeger's \"Living in the Country.\"\n\nMusic critic Hal Horowitz, writing for Allmusic called the album \"breezy\" and singled out the musicianship over the songwriting and singing. \"The musicians work wonderfully together, with Gordon's meaty yet malleable bass grounding and darting around Kottke's distinctive and agile fingerpicked lines.\" Eric Ward of \"Glide\" magazine wrote favorably of the collaboration saying \"You can bet a sand dollar this ends up on quite a few \"Best of '05\" lists.\" and like Horowitz, commented on the surprising cover songs. For PopMatters, critic Nikki Tranter called the album \"A calypso-laced stylish slice of wonderful, Sixty Six Steps uses jaunty island influences to create a tranquil, unaffected reminder of life’s quiet spaces... Sixty Six Steps doesn’t feel like a calypso record. It’s exactly as it’s meant to be—an experiment in flavors, perfectly blended.\"\n\nWriting for Minor 7th, Patrick Ragains felt the album was \"... a few steps short\" and praised Kottke's solo, \"From Spink to Correctionville,\" as \"a welcome respite from the rest of the program's bass and midrange clutter.\" He further commented \"Gordon's bass playing is interesting and effective, but sometimes muddies things when competing for attention with Kottke's bass runs on the guitar. The original songs fall flat both musically and lyrically. This is also true of several covers... Gordon handles electric guitar on several tracks, but his playing is trite and fails to generate any fire in the treble register. Likewise, Kottke's accompaniments and unfocused comping fail to lend any energy to the arrangements.\" Aaron Stein of Jambase commented on the musical relationship between Kottke and Gordon as \"it seems that these musicians were made for each other\" and \"a quirky, amiable weirdness held down by a simple, cozy music.\"\n\nAndrew Kotick of Sputnikmusic compared the release to \"Clone\" and concluded \"The results were in vain of the record's predecessor... The music is exactly what you would describe as a soundtrack to a Hawaiian honeymoon. It is as if the two took the music from \"Clone\" and put in a key change with different lyrics. This doesn't mean it's bad to any extent, but I would've enjoyed some originality.\"\n\nThe album was awarded \"Studio Album of the Year\" at the 2006 Jammy Awards.\n\n\n\n"}
