{"id": "2119373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119373", "title": "Cameron White", "text": "Cameron White\n\nCameron Leon White (born 18 August 1983) is an Australian cricketer and former Australian Twenty20 and Victorian Bushrangers captain. A powerful middle order batsman and right-arm leg-spin bowler, White made his first-class cricket debut as a teenager in the 2000–01 season for the Victorian Bushrangers as a bowling all-rounder. Early comparisons with Victoria teammate Shane Warne faded as White took on a role closer to that of Andrew Symonds, a batsman who bowled occasionally, and bats aggressively with flat sixes around his leg side.\n\nIn 2003–04, he became Victoria's youngest ever captain at the age of 20 when he took over leadership of their one-day side, and the first-class captaincy followed the season after. International recognition came for the first time in 2005, but White found himself in and out of the side as the selectors and national captain Ricky Ponting looked for White to improve his bowling to play as a front-line spinner. Two successful winters with English county side Somerset helped to propel White back into the selectors' minds. White had a short Test career playing four Test matches in 2008.\n\nHis tenure as T20 captain ended with the 2012 series against India where he was dropped following poor form in the Big Bash League. He was succeeded by Melbourne Stars teammate George Bailey. His nickname of \"Bear\" is due to his purported resemblance to the polar bear mascot of Bundaberg Rum.\n\nWhite began his cricket career working his way through the youth structure at Victoria, playing in the Commonwealth Bank Under-17, and later Under-19 Championship series. He showed his prowess with both bat and ball during these competitions, claiming a century, two half-centuries and 17 wickets in the ten matches he played over two seasons. He tended to bat as part of the middle order and bowl as third or fourth change. His first-class debut came in March 2001, aged 17, against New South Wales. Batting at number nine, White scored 11 runs in his only batting inning of the match, and claimed 4/65 coming on as third change bowler. He made one further first-class appearance that season before joining up with the Australian Under-19 cricket team for two youth tests against Sri Lanka.\n\nHe captained the AIS Australia Cricket Academy side that toured New Zealand, beating the New Zealand Academy side 3–1 in a four-match one-day series, after a pair of draws in two three-day matches. Soon after, he made his List A debut for Victoria, but the match was rained off after 42.1 overs without White taking any part in the match. White received his first senior man of the match award a few days later for his two wickets and score of 91 batting at number seven during the Pura Cup match against South Australia. He was named as captain of the Australian Under-19 squad to compete in the 2002 Under-19 Cricket World Cup in New Zealand, and led his team to victory in the competition, beating South Africa by seven wickets in the final. White finished the tournament as the leading run-scorer with 423 runs, with two of the other top-four batsmen also being Australian.\n\nDespite his success with the bat during the Under-19 World Cup, Victoria continued to use White as a bowling all-rounder, a decision that seemed to be justified in the 2002–03 season when White passed 50 just once in his 13 first-class innings and claimed 28 wickets. In his last match of the season, he claimed his maiden five and ten-wicket hauls, taking 6/66 in the first-innings against Western Australia and 4/70 in the second-innings to help Victoria to a 10 wicket victory.\n\nFollowing a season which had seen Darren Berry and Shane Warne share the captaincy of Victoria's ING Cup side, the Victoria selectors appointed White as the captain for the 2003–04 season. Aged only 20, White became the youngest player to captain the Victoria state side in its 152-year history to that point. His coach, David Hookes said that \"White has shown at a young age a successful understanding of captaining a team\". The decision was supported by the reports that during the Under-19 World Cup, he captained the side with \"flair, control and maturity far beyond his years\". White was also called upon to captain the first-class side early in the 2003–04 season, after regular captain Berry broke his finger during a practice match. After a win and a loss while captaining the ING Cup side, White was named man of the match on his debut as Pura Cup captain, taking six wickets to lead Victoria to a five wicket victory over Queensland.\n\nWhite was given his first taste of international cricket in December 2003. Having taken four Indian wickets during a tour match for Victoria, White was selected to play for Australia A against the same opposition later in the tour. Batting at number six in an Australian side that also included Victoria teammate Brad Hodge, and was captained by Michael Hussey, White made little impression on the Indians, making just 20 runs in his two innings and taking no wickets. White retained his place in the A side to face Zimbabwe in two 50-over contests, claiming two wickets.\n\nThe 2003–04 season saw White's batting improve markedly in first-class cricket but he tore some ligaments in his right leg, therefore ending his 2003–04 season. A return of five half-centuries in eighteen innings saw his season average finish in excess of 30 for the first time. He also claimed 30 wickets in the season, the most in a single season in his career to date, although his average suffered compared with the previous season, rising to over 35. A couple of cameo innings also indicated what was to come, 58 runs off 65 balls against Western Australia, and 75 runs off 97 balls against South Australia, an innings that included 7 fours and 3 sixes, showcased the strengths that would later see White shine in the shorter Twenty20 format of the game.\n\nThese improvements in White's game, and an injury to Stuart MacGill, saw White named as part of the 13-man Australia Test squad to tour Zimbabwe. With the Australia selectors keen to take two spinners on the tour, MacGill's injury allowed them to select White \"with a view to the future.\" A tour match against Zimbabwe A brought a wicket for White, but he was denied the chance of making his Test debut when the two-match series was called off due to disputes between the Zimbabwe cricket board and their rebel players. White described the decision as a missed opportunity \"to see how everything went and how an international Test match is played\".\n\nThe 2003–04 season had been capped by victory in the Pura Cup following a 321 victory over Queensland in the final, in which White made a half-century and claimed five of the oppositions wickets. Victoria captain Berry retired from professional cricket after the triumph, and White was named as his replacement for 2004–05. White was pleased with the appointment, saying that the captaincy \"brings out the best in my game and the extra responsibility is good for me\". In December 2004, White made his maiden first-class century, making 119 after Victoria were forced to follow-on against Queensland. His partnership of 205 with Ian Harvey, a record seventh-wicket partnership for Victoria, and 152 from opener Jason Arnberger helped Victoria recover to a second-innings total of 508/8 declared. A fine bowling performance then saw Queensland bowled out for just 169, capping a \"remarkable fightback\" by Victoria.\n\nDuring his early career, parallels were drawn Victoria teammate Shane Warne; both were blonde, and both were leg-spinners. It was soon apparent that he did not have the ability to turn the ball as much as Warne, his style being described as more reminiscent of Anil Kumble instead. Midway through the 2004–05 season, White played four matches for Australia A against the touring West Indians and Pakistanis. Three 50-over matches brought him two half-centuries and a duck, and his first experience of Twenty20 cricket resulted in an unbeaten 58 with a strike rate over 150. Victoria did not qualify for either Pura Cup or ING Cup finals, but White's improvement was again significant; his first-class averages remained roughly the same as in the previous season, but he more than doubled his previous best season batting average in one-day cricket, passing 30 in the format.\n\nAfter his impressive form for Australia A during January 2005, White was selected as part of the Australia A side to tour Pakistan in September that year. After claiming four wickets, and averaging 35.50 with the bat in the 2 four-day matches, White shone in the subsequent one-day games. Not required to bat in the first, he then scored 106 not out in the second and 59 not out in the third, also claiming a tail-end wicket. Having now demonstrated his ability as a big-hitting all-rounder, White was selected to make his international debut during the 2005 ICC Super Series against the ICC World XI. Shaun Pollock, captaining the World XI team, said that his batsmen would target the young leg-spinner, but Australia captain Ricky Ponting said he expected White to bowl, after he'd \"handled things well in the Victoria game against them\". He was named as supersub in the first two matches, being on field only during the ICC World XI innings, therefore being unable to bat. He did not bowl in the first match, and only bowled three wicket-less overs in the second. Despite controversy regarding the official status of the matches, these two appearances as supersub signified White's first two One Day International (ODI) appearances. He started the third match, but as Australia closed their innings on 293/5, White was again not required to bat, nor did he bowl in the following ICC World XI innings.\n\nWhite was named as a bowling supersub again for the first ODI of the Chappell–Hadlee Trophy, replacing Katich at the start of the New Zealand innings. He bowled one wicket-less over, conceding four runs. After missing out on the second match, White returned for the third, getting the opportunity to bat for the first time. He was dismissed for a golden duck, falling to Chris Martin first ball. In the New Zealand innings, he claimed his first senior international wicket, bowling Hamish Marshall.\n\n2005–06 was the first season that Twenty20 cricket was played domestically in Australia, and White with his Victoria team were the quickest to adapt to the new format. White earnt a man of the match award in his first match in the tournament, scoring 45 runs off 32 balls and claiming a single wicket. Two wickets followed in the second match, and a second victory granted Victoria a place in the final. Facing New South Wales in the final, White added 46 off 16 balls, scoring at almost three runs a ball. He claimed 3/8 in the following innings, helping to restrict New South Wales to 140, giving Victoria the championship title. White finished the tournament with 99 runs, second only to Brad Hodge, and 6 wickets, trailing only Shane Harwood, both Victoria teammates.\n\nIn April 2006, White joined up with English county side Somerset for the first match of the County Championship. After Somerset were forced to follow-on by Gloucestershire, White came in at number five and scored 172 runs off 228 balls before finally being caught off the bowling of former Victoria teammate Ian Harvey. Despite this innings, Somerset only managed a team total of 287, and lost the match by an innings and seven runs. Two weeks later, on 1 May, Cricket Australia announced that along with James Hopes and Mick Lewis, Cameron White's national contract would not be renewed for the next 12 months. When Somerset captain Ian Blackwell suffered a shoulder injury that put him out of the game for three months, White was named as his replacement. As with Australia Under-19s and Victoria, the added responsibility seemed to improve his game. A score of 109* against Glamorgan in the 50-over Cheltenham & Gloucester Trophy was followed immediately by 131* in the County Championship against Worcestershire, a half-century against the touring Sri Lankans and then a second-innings 108 against Surrey, all made in the first half of June.\n\nThe Twenty20 Cup gave White another chance to display his skills in the shortest format of the game. White was joined at Somerset by fellow Australian Justin Langer for the tournament, and the pair shone in Somerset's opening match of the competition. Opening the innings, Langer made 90 runs off 46 balls, but was outscored and outpaced by White's 116*, scored at more than two runs a ball. The century was White's first in Twenty20 cricket, and he capped off his performance by claiming Gloucestershire's tenth wicket to wrap up a 117 run victory. Just under two weeks later, White surpassed this score, at the time the joint highest made in Twenty20 cricket, with 141* against Worcestershire. His runs, made off 70 balls, set a new world record Twenty20 total that would stand for almost two years before being beaten by Brendon McCullum. He finished the competition with the leading batting average, and his 403 runs trailed only teammate Langer's 464 and Leicestershire batsman Hylton Ackerman's 409.\n\nIn August, with Somerset slumping, White scored back-to-back fourth-innings centuries in the County Championship, but neither could rescue his side from defeat. First, he made 111 against Essex, and then under a week later, he made the highest individual score in the fourth-innings of a first-class match by remaining 260 not out at the close of Somerset's innings as Derbyshire beat them to record their first home win in four years. Despite Somerset finishing bottom of Division Two of the County Championship, White had his most successful season of cricket in his career to that point. Having made his highest score, and hit five centuries in first-class cricket, his batting average was almost 60, and his one-day batting average exceeded 40.\n\nA strong start to the 2006–07 Australian domestic season, exemplified by 150* against Tasmania in the Pura Cup and 126* against New South Wales in the Ford Ranger Cup (previously ING Cup) saw White recalled to the Australia one-day squad. Chief of selectors, Andrew Hilditch described his inclusion in the squad, praising his \"great form with the bat and [he] has had some terrific performances with the ball\". In an interview with Australian newspaper \"The Age\", White professed his relief at returning to the international scene, stating that \"I don't really care if I get picked as a batting allrounder or a bowling allrounder, or just as a bat or bowler, as long as I get picked.\" An international Twenty20 against England saw White rewarded with a man of the match award for his 40* off 20 balls, and 1/11 with the ball in hand. In his next batting innings, White scored 45 runs including 3 sixes against New Zealand, leading teammate Andrew Symonds to praise his ability to strike the cricket ball, saying that \"when you've got that going on at the other end, it makes it a lot easier for me\". Despite his excellent form with the bat, White's bowling was proving to be mostly ineffective. For this reason, as well as the improved form of Brad Hodge and the selection of Brad Hogg and Shane Watson for their ability with the ball, he was dropped for the finals of the Commonwealth Bank Series and left out of the World Cup squad.\n\nDespite not being named in the World Cup squad, White played all three ODIs in the Chappell–Hadlee Trophy against New Zealand. This was because some of the senior players were rested ahead of the World Cup, or sustained injuries. Stand-in captain Michael Hussey only called upon him to bowl three overs during the series, all in the second match, in which he was expensive, conceding almost 10 runs an over. He hit a quick 42* in that match, scoring six boundaries including 3 sixes. He was less impressive with the bat in the other two matches, making 13 on both occasions.\n\nWhite returned to the Victoria side in time to captain his team in the Ford Ranger Cup final, which they lost to Queensland by 21 runs. Two Pura Cup matches brought a couple of wickets and 96 runs, and then a month's break before his first match back in England, where he returned to Somerset for a second season. He was among the runs immediately, one of eight centurions as Somerset played Middlesex. Fellow Australian Langer, also returning to Somerset made 315, and White added 114 as Somerset eventually reached 850/7 declared. White scored three more half-centuries before the month was out, and in the first match of May, was one of four Australians to reach three figures as Somerset hosted Derbyshire. Against Gloucestershire, he again showed his ability to remain calm and keep scoring even as those around him fell, making 241 in a Somerset first-innings in which James Hildreth was the only other player to pass 50. White passed 1,000 runs in the County Championship for the second time, and his batting average topped 70 as Somerset won promotion from Division Two, a turnaround from the previous season when they had finished bottom of the division, 'winning' the competition's wooden spoon. The season also saw a slight improvement in White's bowling, his 20 first-class wickets coming at an average of 32.75, his best in a domestic season. Despite his impressive season, due to English counties only being allowed one overseas player for the 2008 season, White did not see his contract with the county renewed, Somerset preferring to keep captain Justin Langer. Somerset's Director of Cricket, Brian Rose paid tribute to White, saying \"It was a difficult choice with the new ruling about only one overseas player because Cameron has also done tremendous things for us.\"\n\nIt was on the back of this form that White once again toured Pakistan with the Australia A squad, but he finished the series with just two wickets, both coming in the first-class matches, and a handful of runs. Two months into the Australian domestic season, White was forced to retire hurt after colliding with Queensland bowler Lee Carseldine, and after the match it was revealed he'd fractured his foot. He'd been carrying the injury since the start of the season, and the collision led to a full break, putting White out for six weeks. White conceded that the injury would almost certainly rule out any chance he had of playing for the national team that summer. He returned in early January, playing the last three matches of the Twenty20 tournament, including the final which Victoria won by 32 runs, although White only managed to make one run off eight balls. For the second season in a row, White was named as captain of the Prime Minister's XI, and claimed two Sri Lankan wickets in the 50-over contest. White led Victoria to both Pura Cup and Ford Ranger Cup finals in 2007–08, but they lost both, to New South Wales and Tasmania respectively.\n\nThe auction for the inaugural season of the Indian Premier League (IPL) saw the majority of the world's cricketing talent up for sale in a very public forum. For the thirteen Australians on offer, this was in sharp contrast to the secrecy which surrounded the value of national contracts. White was finally sold for $500,000 to the Royal Challengers Bangalore, $50,000 more than Shane Warne fetched, and more again than Ricky Ponting, Matthew Hayden and Michael Hussey. The apparent discrepancy was in part due to the possibility that international involvement could rule Australia's Test players out of much, if not all of the first two years of the tournament. Rahul Dravid, Bangalore's 'icon' player, described White as an exciting addition, saying \"White is a very exciting Twenty20 player and his domestic record [with two Twenty20 hundreds] in Australia is phenomenal.\" Despite his price, White had a largely disappointing time in his only IPL season. He finished the tournament with 114 runs, over 500 less than fellow Australian and the competition's leading run-scorer Shaun Marsh.\nCameron White holds the record for the highest individual score in a T20 as captain (141*)\n\nWhite was recalled to the Australian ODI and Twenty20 squads for the 2008 tour of the West Indies. He scored 10 runs off 6 balls in a rain-reduced 11-over Twenty20 contest, and in a 50-over tour match against University of West Indies Vice-Chancellor's XI, made 34 but remained wicket-less in his eight overs with the ball. By this stage in his career, White was generally considered a middle-order batsman who bowled a bit, but Australia captain Ponting saw his place in the team as that of the front-line spinner. \"White's obviously been picked as the spinner on this tour. We just need to keep exposing him to different situations and putting him under a bit more pressure. Hopefully he plays a big role for us during the series.\" Despite Ponting's comments, he used White as the fourth-change bowler in the first ODI, bringing the slow left-arm spin of Michael Clarke on first. White conceded 32 runs in his six overs without a breakthrough, and did not bowl at all in the second match, as Clarke claimed the man of the match award for his half-century and three wickets. Although White scored 40* at quicker than a run a ball, the return of Andrew Symonds for the last three ODIs left White out of the team again.\n\nIt was the absence of Symonds, sent home from the 2008–09 series against Bangladesh for skipping a team meeting to go fishing, that gave White another opportunity in the ODI team. Although stand-in captain Clarke mirrored the action of Ponting by bringing himself on before the Victoria captain, White claimed a career-best three wickets for five runs off the 10 balls he bowled. After the match, White admitted he had to prove he could deal with the pressures of international cricket, but was upbeat, saying \"it was nice to get a few wickets but it would have been nice to get a few overs under the belt as well.\" He claimed two more wickets in the second match and, after not being required to bowl in the third, finished the series with an average under 10.\n\nHe was selected as captain of the Australia A team to compete against New Zealand A and India A in a tri-series hosted by India. The captaincy gave White an opportunity to give himself plenty of overs, in total he bowled over 30 overs, claiming eight wickets in the competition, second only to Piyush Chawla. He displayed his all-round ability by finishing with the fifth highest batting average and leading his team to the final, in which they beat India A by 156 runs.\n\nWhen Symonds was dropped from the tour of India due to disciplinary issues, Greg Shipperd, White's coach at Victoria, claimed that White should have been called up rather than Watson, claiming that the leg-spinner \"looked ideal to fill the aggressive role vacated by Symonds – he is a great counter-puncher\". When fellow Victorian leg-spinner Bryce McGain left the tour injured, White got the call-up to the Test squad that Shipperd felt he deserved, although he was nominally selected as a specialist bowler. After Jason Krejza, the other spinner on the tour, conceded 199 runs for no wickets in a match against the Board President's XI, White was considered the safer option, although Ponting publicly endorsed Krejza after his wicket-less match. Despite Ponting's apparent leanings, White was preferred, and became the 402nd Australian to receive his Test cap. He was selected to bat at number eight, usually a specialist bowler's position, despite generally playing first-class cricket as a batsman.\n\nAt the end of the first Test, in which White took the solitary wicket of Sachin Tendulkar, Ponting said \"He's come along in leaps and bounds in his bowling. He's probably exceeded my expectations with what he's done, although he did not take the wickets.\" White improved his return in the second Test, claiming three wickets, but only took one more in the last two matches. Although Ponting extolled White in public, he once again often opted to use the part-time spin of Clarke before and more frequently than White throughout the series. White's five wickets on the tour came at a bowling average of almost 70, and with Symonds named in Test squad to face New Zealand, there was no place in the squad for White.\n\nAlthough not included in the Test squads to face either New Zealand or South Africa, White was named in the ODI and Twenty20 squads to face South Africa at home, and professed \"it was a good feeling to know you are still in the mix\". White played in a more familiar role in the Twenty20s, batting in the middle-order, and after a disappointing 7 in the first match, made 40* off 18 in the second to push Australia's total up beyond South Africa's reach. He had a steady ODI series, in which he was again used as a middle-order batsman, and part-time spinner. He retained his place for the one-day series against New Zealand, but had limited involvement, making 27 runs from his two innings, though he did claim two wickets in his seven overs bowling.\n\nHis lack of involvement with the Test squad allowed him to return to Victoria to lead them in a losing cause in the Ford Ranger Cup final, a narrow 12 run loss to Queensland. Draws against Tasmania and Queensland, set up another Queensland–Victoria final, this time in the Sheffield Shield (formerly the Pura Cup). White was named as man of the match as he led his team to their first championship since 2003–04, scoring 135 and 61 as Queensland were out-played comprehensively.\n\nWhite remained in Australia's Twenty20 team for their two matches in South Africa, but was not involved in their ODI matches, and subsequently was not named as part of their squad for the ICC World Twenty20. However, after Symonds was sent home from the tournament due to 'an alcohol-related incident', White was called up as his replacement. Australia were knocked out in the group-stage of the competition with White unused in their two matches, \"Cricinfo\"'s Brydon Coverdale lambasting Australia's belief that \"the players who carry them in Test and 50-over cricket can do the same in three-hour games\". White returned to Australia to captain the A team against Pakistan and showed consistency with the bat, culminating in 73* in the Twenty20 match.\n\nNamed in both one-day squads for the tour of England, and in the Champions Trophy squad, White's role in the team was now that of a batsman. In the rain-abandoned Twenty20 in England, he made his best Twenty20 International score of 55, and was the only player to cope with the poor conditions on a two-paced pitch. In the ODI series, White saw himself promoted to number three in the absence of Ponting, and responded with scores of 53 and 42 in the first two matches, before making his maiden international century in the third. His 124-ball 105 saw him named man of the match in his last match before Ponting's return which would see him drop back down the batting order. He played the remaining four matches of the series at number six, but finished the tour as Australia's leading run-scorer in ODIs.\n\nWhite was ever-present in Australia's triumph in the 2009 Champions Trophy, saving his best performance for the final where, having been promoted to number four, he scored a patient 62 against New Zealand to help Australia recover from 6/2 to ease to a six wicket victory. The following ODI series against India saw White remain at number four due to injuries to Michael Clarke and Brad Haddin, and he made three half-centuries including a remarkable 57 off 33 balls including 5 sixes. After being in and out of the Australian set-up earlier in his career, White claimed \"I think my best position is up around where I have been batting\", a statement backed up by an average of 41.71 in his 18 appearances since his call-up to face England earlier that year. The higher responsibility placed on White as a batsman was balanced by a much lower responsibility with the ball; across the whole of the 2009 season, he only bowled three balls in One Day International cricket.\n\nUpon the retirement of Ricky Ponting from international Twenty20 cricket, there were some calls for White to be promoted to captain the side, led by his Victoria coach Greg Shipperd. Despite these calls, White backed the favourite, incumbent vice-captain Michael Clarke for the role. White was eventually named as Clarke's vice-captain, although worries about Clarke's injury-prone back and his struggles with form in Twenty20 resulted in continued calls for White to take over, though White again backed Clarke, claiming \"Michael's going to do a great job and I'll just look forward to working with him. I'm still really young in the [Australia] job as well and very inexperienced at this level, so I think I can learn a lot off him.\"\n\nThe return of Clarke to the ODI team for the Pakistan series also saw White move down the order again, although batting at number five, he made his second international century in the first match, scoring 105 from 88 balls to help drive Australia to victory. White continued to perform well with the bat in the series, making a half-century in the second match and making decent totals in a number of the other games as Australia swept the series 5–0.\n\nIn the fourth season, White was bought by Deccan Chargers for US$1.1 million. He became the 2nd highest paid Australian in the IPL, behind David Hussey. He was named Vice Captain of the Deccan Chargers, with Kumar Sangakkara captain of the side.\n\nIn the fifth season, White captained the Chargers for the first match against the Chennai Super Kings, with regular captain Kumar Sangakkara on international duties. White scored his first fifty in the IPL against Pune Warriors India, batting at No. 3. White scored a further 4 half-centuries for the Chargers, ending the season with the second most runs for the Chargers; 479 runs with an average of 43.54, and a strike rate of 149.68, with a high score of 78 from 13 innings. He also captained the Chargers in a further 2 matches.\n\nAfter the termination of the Deccan Chargers, he was retained by the new franchise, Sunrisers Hyderabad, captaining the team when Kumar Sangakkara was not selected in the playing XI. White made 209 runs, averaging 17.41 with a strike rate of 109.42.\n\nWhite signed for Northamptonshire Steelbacks to play in the Friends Life T20 competition, as their second overseas player. White scored the most runs for the Steelbacks; 228 runs with an average of 57 and a strike rate of 131.03, with a high score of 62* from 8 innings. White re-signed to play for the Melbourne Stars in the Big Bash League, signing a 3-year contract. It was also announced White would step down as captain of the Melbourne Stars, with Shane Warne succeeding him.\n\nIn the same week, White was rewarded for his Twenty20 form, earning a recall to the Australian Twenty20 team to play Pakistan in the UAE. This led of the Australian selectors naming White in the 15-man squad for the 2012 ICC World Twenty20, held in Sri Lanka.\n\nAfter nearly a 3-year absence, he was named in the ODI squad to replace the injured Chris Lynn and ahead of Glenn Maxwell.\n\nWhen Michael Clarke retired from Twenty20 International, White was named captain for the 2-match Twenty20 International series against England after the 2010–11 Ashes Series.\n\nWhite was then named vice-captain to Clarke for the following 7-match One Day Series against England. When Clarke was rested for the last ODI, White was named captain of the side. He is the first Victorian since Shane Warne to captain the Australia ODI Team.\n\nOn the same day Michael Clarke was announced as captain, of the Test & ODI teams, Cameron White was announced as the permanent Twenty20 Captain, with Shane Watson vice captain in all formats. However, he was dropped as captain of the Australian Twenty20 team, following poor form in the Big Bash League. He was succeeded by Melbourne Stars teammate George Bailey.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119388", "title": "Bill Thompson (voice actor)", "text": "Bill Thompson (voice actor)\n\nWilliam H. Thompson (July 8, 1913 – July 15, 1971) was an American voice actor, radio comedian and actor, whose career stretched from the 1930s until his death. He was a featured comedian playing multiple roles on the \"Fibber McGee and Molly\" radio series, and was the voice of Droopy in most of the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer theatrical cartoons from 1943 to 1958.\n\nThompson was born to vaudevillian parents and was of Scottish ancestry. He began his career in Chicago radio, where his early appearances included appearances as a regular on Don McNeill's morning variety series \"The Breakfast Club\" in 1934 and a stint as a choir member on the musical variety series \"The Sinclair Weiner Minstrels\" around 1937. While on the former series, Thompson originated a meek, mush-mouthed character occasionally referred to in publicity as Mr. Wimple.\n\nThompson soon achieved his greatest fame after he joined the cast of the radio comedy \"Fibber McGee and Molly\" around 1936. On \"Fibber McGee and Molly\", Thompson brought back the Wimple voice in 1941, and essayed a variety of roles, including a boisterous conman with a W. C. Fields voice, originally named Widdicomb Blotto but soon re-christened Horatio K. Boomer, and Nick Depopulis, the Greek restaurant owner. His two most famous roles on the series, however, were as the Old Timer and Wallace Wimple. The Old Timer, introduced in 1937 was a garrulous old gent who dropped in and listened to McGee's rambling stories and jokes. He inexplicably referred to McGee as \"Johnny\", as in: \"That's pretty good, Johnny, but that ain't the way I heerd it!\" This soon became a national catchphrase and surfaced in Warner Bros. cartoon shorts, notably \"Tortoise Wins by a Hare\" in which Bugs Bunny disguises himself as a bearded old man and tries to trick the tortoise into telling him \"how he beat that wabbit!\")\n\nWallace Wimple, an expansion of Thompson's \"Breakfast Club\" role, was his most enduring character. Wimple was a timid birdwatcher, appropriately nicknamed \"Wimp\" by McGee, who lived in constant terror of his \"big old wife\", nicknamed \"Sweetie Face\", who was often mentioned but never heard. (The term \"wimp\" for an unmanly character was in common usage already, as with the cartoon character J. Wellington Wimpy). The character, whose greeting was a mild \"Hello, folks\", became very popular, and inspired animation director Tex Avery to build a dog character around the voice. This character, eventually named Droopy, was also voiced by Thompson in most of his appearances. Thompson also played the title role, an Adolf Hitler take-off, in Avery's Academy Award-nominated short \"Blitz Wolf\".\n\nAround 1943, however, Thompson's thriving career was interrupted when he joined the US Navy during World War II, and all of his radio characters were temporarily dropped. He returned to \"Fibber McGee\" full-time in 1946, however, and also became a semi-regular on Edgar Bergen's radio series as lecturer \"Professor\" Thompson. On February 21, 1950, he married Mary Margaret McBride.\nThompson continued to work on radio until the late 1950s, notably in several episodes of \"CBS Radio Workshop\", and his animation voice-over career also began to build steam during the 1950s. At MGM, he returned as Droopy and also played Droopy's recurring bulldog nemesis Spike, known as Butch in his appearances that were produced after Avery's departure from MGM, and many other characters in the studio's cartoon shorts (he used the Wimple/Droopy voice for the titular Native American caricature in \"Big Heel-Watha\" and for Tom's lookalike cousin George in a 1957 Tom and Jerry entry \"Timid Tabby\", for two examples).\n\nFor Walt Disney Studios, he was heard in many shorts and features, often in either dialect parts or a variation of his Wimple/Droopy voice. His animated feature film credits included the parts of the White Rabbit and the Dodo in \"Alice in Wonderland\", Mr. Smee and the other pirates in \"Peter Pan\" (reprising his roles in radio adaptations for \"Lux Radio Theater\"), and King Hubert in \"Sleeping Beauty\". Many of the characters he played in Disney productions are now voiced by Corey Burton and Jeff Bennett.\n\nHis best showcase may well have been in \"Lady and the Tramp\" (1955), where he was heard in no less than five dialect parts, as Jock the Scottish Terrier, Bull the Cockney bulldog, Dachsie the German dachshund, Joe the Italian cook, and the Irish policeman in the zoo. In shorts, he was heard as Ranger J. Audubon Woodlore in several \"Donald Duck and Humphrey the Bear\" entries and as Professor Owl in two music related shorts, \"Melody\" and \"Toot Whistle Plunk and Boom\" (directed by Ward Kimball), amongst many others. He reprised both of these roles in Disney's various television series, and was the first actor to voice the comic book character Scrooge McDuck (the theatrical featurette \"Scrooge McDuck and Money\"). Another prominent role is that of Irish station manager Flannery in \"Pigs Is Pigs\" (directed by Jack Kinney), and the voice of Uncle Waldo from \"The Aristocats\".\n\nIn 1957, Thompson joined the Los Angeles branch of Union Oil as an executive, working in community relations and occasionally reprising his radio characters. He remained sporadically active in animation, however, going on to play King Hubert in Disney's \"Sleeping Beauty\", and as Touché Turtle for Hanna-Barbera's \"Touché Turtle and Dum Dum\". He also had several guest roles on the first couple of episodes of \"The Flintstones\" (This was probably because he had initially been cast as Fred Flintstone before Hanna-Barbera settled on Alan Reed).\n\nDuring this period, around 1958, Thompson appeared as a guest challenger on the TV panel show \"To Tell the Truth\".\n\nThompson's final role was as Uncle Waldo in \"The Aristocats\", released shortly before his sudden death from septic shock on July 15, 1971, just a week after his 58th birthday. His wife, Mary Margaret McBride, was the daughter of cartoonist Clifford McBride and was not the Mary Margaret McBride of radio fame.\n\nThompson received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his work in radio, on February 8, 1960.\n\n\nDunning, John. \"On the Air: The Encyclopedia of Old-Time Radio\". New York: Oxford University Press, 1998. \n\n"}
{"id": "2119393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119393", "title": "Introduction (writing)", "text": "Introduction (writing)\n\nIn an essay, article, or book, an introduction (also known as a prolegomenon) is a beginning section which states the purpose and goals of the following writing. This is generally followed by the body and conclusion.\n\nThe introduction typically describes the scope of the document and gives the brief explanation or summary of the document. It may also explain certain elements that are important to the essay if explanations are not part of the main text. The readers can have an idea about the following text before they actually start reading it.\n\nln technical writing, the introduction typically includes one or more standard subsections: abstract or summary, preface, acknowledgments, and foreword. Alternatively, the section labeled \"introduction\" itself may be a brief section found side-by-side with abstract, foreword, etc. (rather than containing them). In this case the set of sections that come before the body of the book are known as the front matter. When the book is divided into numbered chapters, by convention the introduction and any other front-matter sections are unnumbered and precede chapter 1.\n\nKeeping the concept of the introduction the same, different documents have different styles to introduce the written text. For example, the introduction of a Functional Specification consists of information that the whole document is yet to explain. If a Userguide is written, the introduction is about the product. In a report, the introduction gives a summary about the report contents.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119402", "title": "Boll Weevil (restaurant)", "text": "Boll Weevil (restaurant)\n\nBoll Weevil was a casual dining chain of hamburger restaurants located in San Diego, California, United States.\n\nBoll Weevil was founded in 1966 by Fred and Lorraine Halleman. The original location was adjacent to the upscale Cotton Patch steakhouse, with the Boll Weevil name referring to a smaller restaurant spawned from a cotton patch. Both were located in San Diego on Midway Drive, near Barnett Ave and Pacific Highway in Point Loma. In the first Boll Weevil restaurant, beef left over from the trimmings of prime steak prepared at the Cotton Patch steakhouse were used to prepare burgers. Because of the success of the chain of Boll Weevil restaurants, the Cotton Patch eventually closed. Entrepreneur Fred Halleman assisted in establishing 20 Boll Weevil restaurants across the country. On September 15, 2008, the company-owned restaurants were closed down as the parent company entered Chapter 7 bankruptcy. A few independently owned franchise stores remain open.\n\nAs of July 2017, the website representing the remaining locations (which are independently owned) lists five stores still operating.\n\nBoll Weevil restaurants were decorated in a style reminiscent of the American Old West, and also featured pool tables and video games.\n\nWhile discussing Hodad's, OB Rag editor Frank Gormlie criticized the food served at Boll-Weevil's as being too greasy. \"San Diego Reader\" editor Ben Kers included Boll Weevil in his list of \"fourteen more things you’ll never see in San Diego again\". He said that while there are still a few restaurants bearing the name, he felt that the food was no longer the same as it once was.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119406", "title": "Yniol", "text": "Yniol\n\nYniol is the father of Enid in Arthurian legend, appearing in \"Geraint and Enid\". He is an earl who was ousted from his earldom by his nephew Yder the \"Knight of the Sparrow-Hawk\". Yder is compelled to restore his land when bested by Geraint.\n"}
{"id": "2119407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119407", "title": "Graduate Medical School Admissions Test", "text": "Graduate Medical School Admissions Test\n\nThe Graduate Medical School Admissions Test (commonly known as the GAMSAT, formerly Graduate Australian Medical School Admissions Test) is a test used to select candidates applying to study medicine, dentistry, optometry, physiotherapy, podiatry, pharmacy and veterinary science at Australian, British, and Irish universities for admission to their Graduate Entry Programmes (candidates must have a recognised bachelor's degree, or equivalent, completed prior to commencement of the degree).\nGAMSAT makes use of a marking system known as item response theory, meaning that scores are issued according to a sigmoid distribution and can be converted to a percentile rank based on the percentile curve that is issued at the same time as results are released. Candidates are not informed of their raw mark and, in any case, this bears little resemblance to their final score.\n\nSitting the GAMSAT is a separate process to applying to study medicine. Most universities with graduate-entry medical programs require:\n\nOnce a candidate has fulfilled these criteria, they may then apply to universities offering a medicine/dentistry/veterinary science course. If the GAMSAT and GPA scores, or GAMSAT and Degree Class, of the candidate are of sufficient calibre, the candidate may be invited to attend an interview at one or more of the universities to which they applied, based on priority laid out in the student's application. This interview is conducted by established medical practitioners and education professionals, and aims to elucidate the candidate's personal qualities, ethics, verbal reasoning skills, and motivation to study medicine at their university. If successful at this interview (as one half to two thirds of candidates are), then the candidate may be offered a place on their chosen course at the university.\n\nGAMSAT was originally produced in 1995 by four Australian medical schools as a tool to select for candidates applying to study medicine. Since then, its use in Australia has expanded to eleven graduate-entry medicine courses:\n\n\nIn 1999, it was brought into use by British universities and has since expanded to nine universities across the United Kingdom:\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, the University of Limerick and Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland adopted the GAMSAT for medical applicants starting with the 2007 enrolment cycle. It is currently used as the selection criteria for all graduate-entry programmes in Ireland (University College Dublin, University of Limerick, University College Cork, and Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland).\n\nApart from these, Oceania University of Medicine, Jagiellonian University of Medicine and Poznan University of Medical Sciences also accept GAMSAT scores.\n\nGAMSAT is a reasoning rather than knowledge-based test. It is not to be confused with the unrelated UMAT. UMAT is used for applicants to traditional undergraduate-entry medical schools, and is open to high school leavers.\n\nGAMSAT is held twice a year: in late March / early April in Ireland and Australia, and around the middle/end of September in the UK and Australia albeit with fewer available venues. It is administered by the Australian Council for Educational Research (ACER) and requires timely registration, usually by late January for Ireland and Australia or August for the UK.\n\nThere is no prescribed synopsis of the test, but it does require the following levels of knowledge\n\n\nThe test takes a full day, i.e. from 8 am until about 4 pm.\n\nA score is calculated based on performance in all three sections, with double weighting applied to section III (except in the case of applications to The University of Melbourne, University of Sydney and University of Queensland, which weights all three sections equally). This overall score is then used by medical schools to determine which candidates shall be invited to interview.\n\nAccording to ACER, \"quite a few thousand\" attend the GAMSAT annually worldwide but official figures have not been released. Unofficially however, it is reported that approximately 10,000 candidates attended the 2010 exam.\n\nGAMSAT is available to any person who has completed a Bachelor or an undergraduate honours degree, or who will be in the penultimate (second-last) or final year of study, at the time of sitting the test, or, in the case of applicants to University of Exeter Medical School and Plymouth University Peninsula Schools of Medicine & Dentistry, who believes he/she has achieved an appropriate level of intellectual maturity and subject knowledge to meet the demands of the test.\n\nTo sit GAMSAT you must be a bona fide prospective applicant to a course for which GAMSAT is a prerequisite.\n\nThere is no limit to the number of times a bona fide candidate may sit GAMSAT.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119414", "title": "St. Joseph's Preparatory School", "text": "St. Joseph's Preparatory School\n\nSt. Joseph's Preparatory School, known as \"The Prep\", is an urban, private, Catholic, college preparatory school founded in 1851 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, within the Archdiocese of Philadelphia. It is run by the Jesuits.\n\nThe Prep's athletic teams compete as one of the 16 schools in the Philadelphia Catholic League. The Prep joined the Pennsylvania Interscholastic Athletic Association in the 2007-2008 school year. The Prep offers the following athletic programs:\n\n\"Fall:\" cross country, football (varsity, junior varsity, and freshmen), crew (varsity and junior varsity), rugby, soccer (varsity, junior varsity, and freshmen), squash (varsity and junior varsity), Ultimate Frisbee (club), and golf.\n\n\"Winter:\" basketball (varsity, junior varsity, and freshmen), bowling (varsity and junior varsity), indoor track and field, swimming, wrestling (varsity and junior varsity), and ice hockey (varsity, junior varsity, and freshmen).\n\n\"Spring:\" baseball (varsity, junior varsity, and freshman), crew (varsity, junior varsity, and freshmen), volleyball, lacrosse, outdoor track and field, tennis, Ultimate Frisbee (club), and rugby (varsity, junior varsity, freshmen/sophomore). The boys senior eight crew team has won the Stotesbury Cup in national competition 12 times; in 1955, 1987, 1992, 1995, 1997, 1999-2001, 2005, 2008, 2010 and 2019. In 2000, the Prep Varsity 8 won the Princess Elizabeth Challenge Cup at the Henley Royal Regatta.\n\nThe Prep football team won back-to-back state championships, winning the Class 4A state championship in 2014 with a 49-41 win against Pine-Richland High School in the finals. Despite losing to La Salle College High School early in the 2015 playoffs, the St. Joseph's Prep football team won the first ever Class 6A PIAA state championship, defeating Pittsburgh Central Catholic by a score of 42-7 at HersheyPark Stadium in Hershey, Pennsylvania. The team won the program's fourth state title in 2018 with a 40-20 win against Harrisburg High School in the Class 6A tournament final.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119421", "title": "Charles Adler", "text": "Charles Adler\n\nCharles Adler may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119447", "title": "Chrysler IV-2220", "text": "Chrysler IV-2220\n\nThe Chrysler XIV-2220 (XI-2220 from 1944) was an experimental 2,500 hp, 2,220 cubic inch (36.4 liter) liquid-cooled inverted-V-16 aircraft engine designed by Chrysler starting in 1940. Although several aircraft designs had considered using it, by the time it was ready for use in 1945 the war was already over. Only a few engines were built during the program, and it retained its 'X' designation the entire time as the XIV-2220, later XI-2220. The IV-2220 is historically important as it was Chrysler's first hemi, a design that would re-appear for many years later and is now a Chrysler trademark.\n\nChrysler had apparently been carrying out paper studies of a very large engine for a brief period starting in May 1940 and decided to present their work to the United States Army Air Corps. They proposed a large engine to provide 2,500 hp initially, with room for growth upwards. Instead of using advanced features such as sleeve valves for improved RPM, they instead decided to use a larger number of \"normal sized\" cylinders in a V-16 arrangement. The Army was interested, and sent them a development contract tender on June 22, 1940, to which Chrysler responded on July 2.\n\nThe extremely long profile of the new design meant that the crankshaft would be highly loaded if power was taken off at the propeller end. Chrysler's solution to this problem was unique; power was instead taken from the middle of the engine, placing the propeller reduction gear in a gap between two V-8 cylinder banks and sending power to the front of the engine via a long extension shaft running below the crankshaft. Additionally many of the accessories were driven off the drive shaft instead of the crank shaft. This solution also raised the weight of the engine by the amount of the shaft, but it was apparently a price worth paying.\n\nA single overhead cam drove the two-per-cylinder poppet valves, arranged at an angle to the piston in a hemi-spherical cylinder head, with the spark plug arranged between the valves. This arrangement allowed for \"cross-flow\" scavenging of the charge, and had been used on various race and performance car engines for some time. The hemi is actually less efficient than the design being used in most engines of the era, the penta engine, which improved airflow by allowing three or four valves per cylinder.\n\nOne early problem for the design was the lack of high-strength aluminum alloys; the original supplier, Alcoa, was able to deliver only half the required strength. Chrysler was able to address this through much improved production-line quality control, but the engine was nevertheless built with considerably more distance between the cylinders than normal, making the engine relatively long. This was not helped by the \"gap\" holding the propeller gearing in the middle of the engine, or the large accessories section at the end. The IV-2220 was comparatively huge; the Rolls-Royce Griffon of about the same displacement was 77 inches long, while the IV-2220 was 122.\n\nWeight was not greatly affected, however, and the power-to-weight ratio was certainly competitive at 1.03 hp/lb. Some of this was no doubt due to the use of a turbocharger in addition to a supercharger for more continuous boost and less power draw on the engine. Turbochargers are generally \"free,\" powered not by the engine directly as in a supercharger, but by otherwise wasted exhaust energy. The IV-2220 also included a fairly advanced liquid-cooled intercooler between the turbocharger and supercharger, and an aftercooler behind the supercharger as well. This complex arrangement resulted in excellent altitude performance, keeping maximum rated power all the way to 25,000 ft.\n\nThe engine first flew on 26 July 1945, mounted on a converted P-47D-15-RE which was intended to serve as the prototype for the new P-47H series using this engine. A second example followed, but the war was already over and the need for a new engine in the jet age was gone. The only other design to select it was the Curtiss XP-60C in 1942, but the engine was so delayed that the P-60 moved onto other engines.\n\n\"Note: some sources claim the engine delivered 2,300 hp in testing, and that 2,500 was the design power. Chrysler documents specify 2,500 hp, the figure used here.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119448", "title": "Division 1 (Swedish football)", "text": "Division 1 (Swedish football)\n\nDivision 1, branded as Ettan (), which also is its common name in everyday speech, is the third level in the Swedish football league system and consists of 32 Swedish football teams. Division 1 was the second tier from 1987 to 1999, but was replaced by Superettan in 2000. It was reestablished for the 2006 season as the third tier below Superettan.\n\nThe old Division 1 replaced Division 2 as the second highest level in 1987 and consisted of two separate leagues with 14 teams each, Norra (Northern) and Södra (Southern), except for the 1991 and 1992 seasons which comprised 32 teams in four leagues, adding Östra (Eastern) and Västra (Western). As of the 2018 season, both Norra and Södra leagues of Division 1 are composed of 16 clubs, similar to Allsvenskan and Superettan.\n\nThere are 32 clubs in Division 1, divided in two groups of 16 teams each representing Northern and Southern Sweden. During the course of a season (starting in April and ending in November) each club plays the others twice, once at their home stadium and once at that of their opponents, for a total of 30 games. At the end of each season the three lowest placed teams of each group are relegated to Division 2 and the six winning teams from the six Division 2 leagues are promoted in their place. The top team in each Division 1 group is promoted to Superettan and the two lowest placed teams from Superettan are relegated in their place. The second placed teams in each Division 1 group plays a promotion/relegation play-off against the third and fourth lowest teams in Superettan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119450", "title": "Sanshui District", "text": "Sanshui District\n\nSanshui District, formerly romanized as Samshui, is an urban district of the prefecture-level city of Foshan in Guangdong province, China. It had about 386,000 inhabitants in 2002. It is known for the \"Samsui women\", emigrants who labor in Singapore, and for a large fireworks explosion in 2008.\n\nAccording to archaeology sites discovered within the region, there were human beings inhabited in the town of Baini () Sanshui District about four thousand years ago.\nSamshui was formerly a town which served as the seat of an eponymous county. It was elevated to city status before becoming an urban district of Foshan.\n\nIn February 2008, twenty fireworks warehouses exploded in Sanshui. In total over 15,000 cartons of fireworks were set off over a period of 24 hours. The loss of inventory was extensive enough that U.S. markets faced real shortages of supply.\n\nThe neighbouring cities, counties and districts are Gaoyao, Dinghu District and Sihui in the west, Qingxin County and Qingyuan in the north, Huadu District and Nanhai District in the east and Gaoming District in the south-west. Sanshui administers 2 subdistricts and 5 towns:\n\nOil, coal, and slate are found in the surrounding area. However, Sanshui is also an important producer of food for Guangdong Province, especially fruit. The mainstay of the former city's economy was the Jianlibao Company, which produced a soft drink made from oranges and honey. During the 1990s, Jianlibao was a popular drink throughout China and it even made it into the Hong Kong market. However, embezzlement by the company's senior management has reduced its success. Despite Sanshui's proximity to Guangzhou and other Pearl River Delta cities, it remains a relatively poor place with many people only earning a few hundred yuan a month.\n\nSanshui is on the railway line from Guangzhou to Maoming. The district is served by G15 Shenyang–Haikou Expressway (which provides access to Kaiping and the southern suburbs of Foshan), G55 Erenhot–Guangzhou Expressway (which provides direct access to downtown Guangzhou), China National Highway 321 (which provides access to Zhaoqing) and China National Highway 324.\n"}
{"id": "2119454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119454", "title": "Durham boat", "text": "Durham boat\n\nThe Durham boat was a large wooden, flat-bottomed, double-ended freight boat which was in use on many of the interior waterways of North America beginning in the middle of the eighteenth century. They were displaced by larger, more efficient canal boats during the canal era beginning with the opening of the Erie Canal in 1825. The Durham name became associated with this boat type due to their use by the Durham Ironworks of Durham, Pennsylvania for hauling freight on the Delaware River.\nThey are also noted for their use in George Washington's crossing of the Delaware River during the American Revolution.\n\nDurham boats were flat-bottomed and double-ended, much like large bateaux in both construction and appearance. Beyond that, very little is known of construction details. No plans exist and likely they were not used. No extant remains have been found and very little written description exists. Probably they were built with heavy stems at bow and stern and a series of frames amidships, likely from natural oak crooks when available, and planked with sawn boards, likely pine although builders would have used whatever material was available.\n\nThese boats would have varied from place to place, from builder to builder and also evolved over time, however in general, they were to long and wide. The bottoms were planked and flat, without a keel, but possibly with a larger “keel-plank” in the center. The sides were vertical and parallel, tapering to sharp at either end. Unlike the bateau, they were decked at both ends and had cleated walking boards along either side. They would have been fitted with a long “sweep” or steering oar and one mast which usually held two square sails.\n\nThe Durham boat “... was the sole means of moving commodities in both directions on the river between Philadelphia and points above tide. This boat was well known on the Delaware for more than a century.. even after the building of the canals, it was used on them as well as on the river to a considerable extent.”\n\nThey are also noted for their use in George Washington's crossing of the Delaware River during the American Revolution.\n\n\"They were used as early as 1758, by John Van Campen, for the transportation of flour to Philadelphia, manufactured from wheat grown in the Minisink.\" \n\nThe sides of the Delaware River Durhams were vertical with a slight curvature to meet a similar curvature of the bottom which was otherwise flat. The sides were straight and parallel until they began to curve to the stem and stern posts, about twelve or fourteen feet from the ends, where the decks began, the rest of the boat being open.\n\nThe usual length was 60 feet although shorter boats were built and in some cases, the length was extended to 66 feet with sometimes a foot or two added to the normal eight foot width. The usual depth was 42 inches with an additional 10 inches of height at the ends. The boats were shallow draft, three and a half to five inches empty and twenty-eight inches loaded. They normally carried from 15 to 18 tons downstream and 2 tons upstream.\n\nOn the Delaware, the usual crew was three men. Movement downstream was by the current with occasional use of two 18-foot oars. The boat was propelled upstream by the use of 12 to 18 foot iron-shod setting poles. Twelve inch wide “walking-boards” ran the length of the boat on either side. Crew members set their poles on the bottom of the river and walked from the forward end of the boat to the stern, driving the boat forward. The captain, who steered, held the boat from going back with the current with a pole while the crew returned to repeat the process.\nAt one time, there were reportedly several hundred Durham boats on the Delaware River. They sometimes traveled in groups as large as twenty-five so that the crews could aid each other. One observer recalled sitting on the river bank watching a number of Durham boats waiting for a favorable wind, and when a breeze came up, “…off they would go like a flock of sheep.”\nThe Mohawk River was smaller and shallower than the Delaware and Durham boats were not introduced until much later, probably not until 1795 when the Western Inland Lock Navigation Company completed navigational improvements. Prior to that, freight on the Mohawk went by bateaux and Schenectady boat, which seems to have been a smaller, lighter version of the Durham.\n\nDurhams on the Mohawk differed somewhat from those on the Delaware River, primarily in that they had flat bottoms rather than the partly rounded bottoms of the Delaware River boats. “…the Schenectady Durham, which is described as flat bottom, straight sides, with easy lines at bow and stern, to help flotation in striking a rapid. She was decked fore and aft and along her gunwales, which were cleated to give foothold to the boatmen. A mast was stepped near the bow with square sails.\"\nFrom 1803-1820, Durham boats were the watercraft of choice on the waterway for traffic between the Hudson River and Lake Ontario via the Mohawk River.\nThe eastern terminus of this waterway was in Schenectady, New York, and the Durham boats were also known as Schenectady boats in this region. The waterway was the major one connecting the eastern seaboard of the United States to the continental interior. The improvements to it that made the use of Durham boats practicable were an important prelude to the construction of the Erie Canal. Durham boats aren't designed as canal boats, and their era on the waterway along the Mohawk largely ended with the canal's opening in 1825.\n\nDurham boats replaced the use of bateaux on the Niagara River. Porter Barton & Co. ran them on a regular schedule carrying salt from Little Niagara (Fort Schlosser) to Black Rock beginning about 1805. At least one Durham boat “of about ten tons burthen” was reported built at the Black Rock shipyard on the Niagara River in 1809.\nIn 1810, a “salt boat” with a crew of four bound to Black Rock with 150 barrels of salt was upset and drifted down the river, and went over the falls. Three of the four crew members were lost. In another well-known incident, Captain Daniel Dobbins used an “old Durham boat” to transport two cannon each weighing 6300 pounds from Black Rock to Presque Isle to supply Commodore Perry’s fleet in the Battle of Lake Erie, \"...when it was discovered she was leaking very much from the heavy rolling and heavy weight in her bottom, and likely to split open and founder, Mr. Dobbins took a coil of rope they had on board, and securing one end forward, passed the rope round and round her fore and aft, heaving each turn taut with a gunner’s handspike; and in this way, kept her together and afloat, all hands bailing.\" \n\nDuring the period 1796 to 1820, “open boats” were in use on Lake Erie. These boats were used to carry cargo and passengers, usually between Buffalo and Detroit and places between. They traveled along the shore and sought shelter in the mouth of the nearest creek in the event of bad weather. These boats were never specifically described, but they were sometimes referred to as Schenectady boats or Durham boats.\n\nThe use of Durham boats on the Niagara River ended immediately in 1825 when the Porter Barton & Co. monopoly of the Niagara Falls portage was made worthless by the opening of the Erie Canal.\n\nThe Durham boat was introduced on the St. Lawrence River in 1809 by Americans who brought them from the Mohawk River.\n\nBy 1816, regular passenger service by Durham boat had been established between Schenectady and Montreal. From the Montreal Herald of June 2, 1816, \"Among the objects which attract public notice, we were the other day struck with the appearance of a handsome Durham boat of the ordinary size, or of about 250 bbls. Burthen. She was not intended for freight, but for passengers; she had a substantial roundhouse, 20 feet in length by 8 in width, well fitted up with sides of painted canvas, such as stagecoaches have; sixteen or twenty passengers can be tolerably accommodated in this boat.\" \n\nThe Durham on the St. Lawrence was described as \"a flat bottomed barge with a keel or centre board with a rounded bow with a length from eighty to ninety feet with a breadth of beam from nine to ten feet with a carrying capacity of ten times that of the batteau. In 1835 there were 800 Durham boats and 1500 batteaux engaged in the navigation of Lake Ontario and the St Lawrence river.\" \n\nDurham boats were used in commercial trade on the Fox River between Green Bay, Wisconsin and Fort Winnebago. Their use on this waterway was pioneered by John W. Arndt in 1825. In the 1830s, Daniel Whitney, who had a lead shot tower in Helena on the Wisconsin River downstream from the portage at the fort, tried to organize transit for lead shot via the Great Lakes to markets in New York, but while the Durham boats were ideal for their task on the Fox River, the overall operation was too complex to compete with other means.\n\nA series of modern replicas were built to be used in annual reenactments of Washington's historic Delaware River crossing. Five are stored at the Washington Crossing Historic Park in Pennsylvania. A sixth boat is on display on the green next to the Durham Post Office on Durham Road in Durham, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe Endurance was a replica Durham boat built by Parks Canada and the National Capital Commission in Ottawa in 1983. It was scrapped in 2006 except for the bow section which remains on display at the Rideau Canal Visitor Centre in Smiths Falls, Ontario.\n\nThe Erie Traveler is a 51-foot-long, 7 foot-wide Durham boat replica built during 2016-2017 by staff and volunteers of the Buffalo Maritime Center for the Locks Heritage District Corporation for demonstration purposes along the canal in Lockport. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119457", "title": "Stefan Milutin", "text": "Stefan Milutin\n\nStefan Uroš II Milutin (; 1253 – 29 October 1321), known as Stefan Milutin (Стефан Милутин), was the King of Serbia between 1282–1321, a member of the Nemanjić dynasty. He was one of the most powerful rulers of Serbia in the Middle Ages. Milutin is credited with strongly resisting the efforts of Byzantine Emperor Michael VIII Palaiologos to impose Roman Catholicism on the Balkans after the Union of Lyons in 1274. As most of the Nemanjić monarchs, he was proclaimed a saint by the Serbian Orthodox Church with a feast day on October 30.\n\nHe was the youngest son of King Stefan Uroš I and his wife, Helen of Anjou. Unexpectedly he became king of Serbia after the abdication of his brother Stefan Dragutin. He was around 29. Immediately upon his accession to the throne he attacked Byzantine lands in Macedonia. In 1282, he conquered the northern parts of Macedonia including the city of Skoplje, which became his capital. Byzantine Emperor Michael VIII Palaiologos began preparations for war but he died before their completion. The next year Milutin advanced with his brother deep into Byzantine territory all the way to Kavala. \n\nIn 1284, Milutin also gained control of northern Albania and the city of Dyrrachion (Durrës). For the next 15 years there were no changes in the war. Peace was concluded in 1299 when Milutin kept the conquered lands as the dowry of Simonis, daughter of Emperor Andronikos II Palaiologos who became his fourth wife. In Nerodimlje župa Milutin had three courts, in Nerodimlje (protected by Petrič), Svrčin and Pauni.\n\nAt the end of the 13th century Bulgarian feudal lords Darman and Kudelin were jointly ruling the region of Braničevo (in modern Serbia) as independent or semi-independent lords. They regularly attacked Stefan Dragutin's Syrmian Kingdom, in Mačva, an area previously under the sovereignty of Elizabeth of Hungary. The Hungarian queen had sent troops to claim Braničevo in 1282–1284, but her forces had been repelled and her vassal lands plundered in retaliation. \n\nAnother campaign, this time organized by both Dragutin and Elizabeth, failed to conquer Darman and Kudelin's domains in 1285 and suffered another counter-raid by the brothers. It was not until 1291 when a joint force of Dragutin and the Serbian King Stefan Milutin managed to defeat the brothers and, for the first time ever, the region came under the rule of a Serb, as it was annexed by Dragutin. Responding to Dragutin's annexation of Braničevo the Bulgarian prince named Shishman that came to rule the semi-independent principality of Vidin around 1280, began to attack the Serbian domains to his west. \n\nShishman was a vassal of Nogai Khan, Khan of the Golden Horde and sought to expand his territories to the west, invading Serbia coming as far as Hvosno, the Bulgarians failed to capture Zdrelo (near Peć) and were pursued back to Vidin by the Serbs. Milutin devastated Vidin and the rest of Shishman's dominion, making Shishman take refuge on the other side of the Danube. The two however became allies after Milutin married Serbian župan Dragoš to the daughter of Shishman, later Milutin would give his daughter Neda (with title Anna) to Shishman's son Michael who would become the Tsar of Bulgaria in 1323. \nMilutin and Nogai Khan would soon come into conflict because of the war with the Tsardom of Vidin. Nogai launched a campaign against Serbia but Milutin offered peace sending his son Stefan Dečanski to Nogai's court. Stefan stayed with his entourage there until 1296 or Nogai Khan's death in 1299.\n\nDisputes began between Milutin and his brother Stefan Dragutin after a peace treaty with the Byzantine Empire was signed in 1299. Dragutin in the meantime held lands from Braničevo in the east to the Bosna river in the west. His capital was Belgrade. War broke out between the brothers and lasted, with sporadic cease-fires, until Dragutin's death in 1314. During this war Milutin appointed Stefan Dečanski as regent in Zeta, modern Montenegro. This meant that Stefan Dečanski was to be heir to the throne in Serbia and not Dragutin's son Stefan Vladislav II.\n\nHe captured Durres in 1296. On 15 March 1306 Milutin issued a charter to Ratac in which he appointed his son Stephen as his future successor.\n\nThe Battle of Gallipoli (1312) was fought by Serbian troops sent by Stefan Milutin to aid Byzantine Emperor Andronikos in the defense of his lands against the Turks. After numerous attempts in subduing the Turks, the rapidly crumbling Byzantine Empire was forced to enlist the help of Serbia. The Turks were looting and pillaging the countryside and the two armies converged at the Gallipoli peninsula where the Turks were decisively defeated. Out of the gratitude to Serbia, the town of Kucovo was donated.\n\nUpon Stefan Dragutin's death in 1314 Milutin conquered most of his lands including Belgrade and started persecute and rebaptist Catholics which led to the crusade started by Pope John XXII.\nIn 1318 there was a revolt of Albanian nobles against the rule of Stefan Milutin, which is sometimes credited to be incited by Prince Philip I of Taranto and Pope John XXII in order to weak Stefan Milutin's rule. Milutin has suppressed rebels without much difficulty. In 1319 Charles I of Hungary regained control over Belgrade and banovina Mačva while Milutin held control in Braničevo. In the year 1314 Milutin's son Stefan Dečanski rebelled against his father, but was captured, blinded and sent to exile in Constantinople. For the rest of Milutin's reign his youngest son Stefan Constantine was considered as heir to the throne, but in the spring of 1321 Stefan Dečanski returned to Serbia and was pardoned by his father.\n\nTime of his reign was marked hostility to Catholicism and conversion of Catholics which provoked rebellion of Catholic nobility. Pope John XXII called Stefan Milutin as \"the enemy of the Christian faith\".\n\nBy his first wife, Jelena, a minor Serbian noblewoman, he had two children, King Stephen Uroš III and Anna Neda, who married Michael Shishman of Bulgaria. By his second wife, Helena, daughter of \"sebastokratōr\" John I Doukas of Thessaly, he had no children. By his third wife, Elizabeth, daughter of King Stephen V of Hungary and Elizabeth the Cuman, Milutin had a daughter, Zorica. By his fourth wife, Anna, the daughter of George I of Bulgaria, Stefan Uroš II Milutin had a son, Stefan Konstantin. By his fifth wife Simonis, the daughter of Emperor Andronikos II Palaiologos, he had no children.\n\nAt the end of Milutin's life Serbia was second in strength in Southeast Europe after Hungary. During his reign many court ceremonials were taken over from the Byzantine court and Byzantine culture overflowed into Serbia. Milutin was also well known as the founder of many monasteries: Gračanica monastery, Our Lady of Ljeviš, the church of Vavedenje in Hilandar and many more. After his death a short civil war followed, after which the Serbian throne was ascended by his eldest son, Stefan Dečanski.\n\nHe is included in The 100 most prominent Serbs.\n\nKing Stefan Milutin founded a hospital in Constantinopole, which later became a medical school. He also erected numerous churches and monasteries, including Bukovo monastery, Church of St. Nicetas, Our Lady of Ljeviš, Church of St. George, Banjska monastery, Gračanica monastery, Koroglaš monastery, and Vratna monastery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119471", "title": "Yichun, Heilongjiang", "text": "Yichun, Heilongjiang\n\nYichun () is a prefecture-level city on the Songhua river in Heilongjiang province, People's Republic of China. The city is separated from Russia by the Amur River and has an international border of . At the 2010 census, Yichun has a total population of 1,148,126 while 729,202 people live in 15 districts separated by forests. The greening rate of Yichun is up to 83%. The nickname of Yichun is Lindu ().\n\nYichun was named after the Yichun River (), which is a small tributary of Tangwang River (). The word Yichun means \"nine\" in Mongolian language. During the Shang Dynasty Yichun was populated by the Sushen (). Before the Tang Dynasty, the region was inhabited by several nomad tribes in the northeastern border area of China including Sushen and Donghu. During the Qing Dynasty, Yichun was under the administration of Qiqihar and Hulan's Deputy Lieutenant-General (Fudutong) before it became a minor town under Tangyuan County's jurisdiction in the 1890s.\n\nThe region's real development began after the establishment of Manchukuo after Japanese force seized Manchuria in 1932. In November 1941, a railway from Suihua to Jiamusi was built before its branch was extended to today's Yichun district from Nancha in July 1942. In 1945, Yichun was established as Yichunjie (Yichun Street) under Tangyuan County's control. As a major center of lumber industry, Yichun has grown at an astonishing rate since 1949. In 1952 Yichun County was established by the PRC Government. On 13 Feb 1958 Yichun was designated a Prefecture-level city. However, in order to set up a pilot of the combination of enterprise management and government, The CPC Central Committee and State Council approved to establish Yichun Special District () instead of Yichun City in 1964. In 1979 the City of Yichun was reinstated. Jiayin and Tieli were put into Yichun's jurisdiction.\n\nYichun is located in the northeast part of Heilongjiang, faces Russia across the Amur River with a borderline of . The Lesser Khingan Mountains cross the city. The total administrative area of Yichun is up to . The channels and valleys are densely covered with trees and grasslands In the administrative area of Yichun. There are 702 rivers in total and the total water pondage is 10.2 billion steres, and the rivers belong to the branches of Amur River and Songhua River systems. Tangwanghe River is the main river of Yichun.\n\nYichun has a monsoon-influenced, hemiboreal climate (Köppen Dwb), with long, bitterly cold, but very dry winters, and very warm, humid summers. With an annual mean temperature of , it is among the coldest Chinese cities, and diurnal temperature variation tends to be large, especially in winter and spring. The monthly 24-hour average temperature ranges from in January to . During the warmer months, rainfall is somewhat enhanced by the mountainous topography, allowing for a generous annual precipitation total of . However, the monsoon still means that more than 60% of the annual precipitation falls from June to August alone.\n\nOn Jun 13, 2019, the District division adjustment plan of Yichun, which plans to merge all of the original 15 districts to 4 districts and 4 counties was approved by the State Council.\n\nYichun, Heilongjiang currently comprises 4 districts, 1 county-level city and 5 counties. \nDistricts: Yimei, Wucui, Youhao and Jinlin\nCounty-level city: Tieli\nCounties: Tangwang, Fenglin, Nancha and Dajingshan\n\nThe city's GDP topped RMB 20.24 billion in 2010, featuring a growth of 15.7% over the previous year. In 2010, value-added industrial output generated by enterprises with designated size or above rose 29.3% to RMB 7.12 billion. In 2010, the foreign trade value of Yichun totaled US$302.23 million, up 36.3% year on year.\n\nWood processing and metallurgy are the main industries in Yichun. In 2010, value-added industrial output from wood processing increased 34% to RMB 2.01 billion, while that from metallurgy rose 39.2% to RMB 2.2 billion, accounting for 33.6% of the industrial sector's total. These two industries accounted for 91% of Yichun's total value-added industrial output according to the statistics in 2009.\n\nYichun Lindu Airport, located in a forest approximately from downtown Yichun, is the city's airport. It started operations in August 2009, and is capable of serving 142,000 passengers a year. \nYichun Railway Station operates daily trains to Harbin, the capital of Heilongjiang Province. The Yichun-Hegang Highway and the Yichun-Harbin Highway(part of Hegang-Harbin Highway) connect the city with other cities in Heilongjiang Province.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119472", "title": "Axel Anderberg", "text": "Axel Anderberg\n\nAxel Johan Anderberg (November 27, 1860  – March 27, 1937) was a Swedish architect.\nHe was active from the 1880s to the early 1930s. \nAnderberg was born in Kristianstad[ in Skåne County, Sweden. Anderberg received his education in the architectural school of the Royal Institute of Technology (1880-1884), and the architecture section of the Royal Swedish Academy of Arts (1884-1887), after which he spent a year traveling to Germany, France and Italy.\n\nHis first significant commission was the new Opera House in Stockholm (1889-1898), which replaced the Gustavian Opera House which had dated to 1782. After having won the contest for the building he spent additional time abroad for the particular purpose of studying theatre architecture. He later designed the city theatres in Karlstad (1893), Linköping (1902-1903) and Kristianstad (1906) and the \"Oscarsteatern\" in Stockholm (1906).\n\nDuring his early career he built several theatres, working mostly in a mix of neo-baroque and art nouveau, while his later work largely consisted of buildings for scientific and academic institutions in the purer neo-classicist style of the period.\nAnderberg built the large new complex for the Swedish Museum of Natural History (completed 1916) at Frescati outside Stockholm, and later several other scientific institutions in the same area, including the building for the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. He also built additional wings to the Royal Library building in Humlegården in Stockholm. For Uppsala University, Anderberg built the Paleontological Museum (1929) and an extension to the Carolina Rediviva. In 1931, the new building for the Stockholm Observatory was completed in Saltsjöbaden outside the city.\n\nHe died during 1937 at Rotebro in Stockholm County, Sweden. \n"}
{"id": "2119476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119476", "title": "We Got It Made", "text": "We Got It Made\n\nWe Got It Made is an American sitcom television series that aired on NBC from September 8, 1983, to March 10, 1984, and in first-run syndication from September 11, 1987, to March 30, 1988. It starred Teri Copley as a young woman who works as a maid for two bachelors in New York City, played by Matt McCoy (replaced by John Hillner for the syndicated version) and Tom Villard. The series was created by Gordon Farr and Lynne Farr Brao (credited as simply Lynne Farr during the 1987–88 season). The executive producer was Fred Silverman.\n\nThe show focuses on Mickey Mackenzie (Teri Copley), a girl in her early 20s who applies for a housekeeping job in Manhattan. Her employers are two bachelors who share the two-bedroom apartment—conservative attorney David Tucker (Matt McCoy) and goofy, idealistic salesman Jay Bostwick (Tom Villard). Mickey is the first — and only — applicant for the job; in fact, both David and Jay are so taken by her beauty, they immediately hire her.\n\nBoth David and Jay had girlfriends—David's was attorney Claudia Jones (Stepfanie Kramer, who left after episode #19 and found far greater fame on the NBC crime drama \"Hunter\"), while Jay dated kindergarten teacher Beth Sorensen (Bonnie Urseth). Both Claudia and Beth were skeptical about their boyfriends having such an attractive maid living with them, but they eventually grew to accept Mickey as a friend.\n\nWhen it first premiered, \"We Got It Made\" looked to be successful, winning its time slot early in the run. Before long, though, negative reviews from both critics and the general viewing public eroded its viewership. NBC moved the series from its original Thursday night berth to Saturdays in January 1984. The change in its night and time did little in keeping the series on the air; in March 1984, \"We Got It Made\" was cancelled.\n\n\"We Got It Made\" was revived in first-run syndication for the 1987–1988 season as part of NBC's \"\" campaign, in which the network's owned-and-operated stations ran first-run sitcoms in the 7:30–8:00 pm time slot to counterprogram competing stations' game shows, sitcom reruns, and other offerings. However, the series was picked up by non-NBC stations, as well.\n\nTeri Copley and Tom Villard were the only returning cast members, Jay and Beth no longer were a couple (Bonnie Urseth had decided not to participate this time), and David was now played by John Hillner. David, Jay, and Mickey had new neighbors, as well—policeman Max Papavasiolios Sr. (Ron Karabatsos) and his son, Max Jr. (Lance Wilson-White). Mickey seemed to allow greater physical attention—and affection—from the now-single Jay and David, but at the same time, she doted on them as if they were her young sons. She also had a special relationship with teenaged Max, who frequently came to her for advice in attracting and dealing with women, although he would have preferred putting that advice to use on Mickey alone.\n\nAs they had with the NBC version, critics lambasted the series, and \"We Got It Made\" lasted only one season in syndication. The series' final original episode was released on March 30, 1988, with reruns airing until the week of September 3, 1988, in most markets.\n\n\nNotable guest stars included Elaine Joyce (as Mickey's mother), Edie McClurg, Julie Brown, Scatman Crothers, Alice Ghostley, Richard Paul, Billie Bird, Joel Brooks, Jack Bannon, Peggy Pope, and Jean Kasem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119481", "title": "Professional Coin Grading Service", "text": "Professional Coin Grading Service\n\nProfessional Coin Grading Service (PCGS) is a coin grading, authentication, attribution, and encapsulation service founded in 1985. The intent of its seven founding dealers, including the firm's former president David Hall, was to standardize grading. The firm has divisions in Europe and Asia, and is owned by parent company Collectors Universe. PCGS has graded over 42.5 million coins, medals, and tokens valued at over $36 billion.\n\nPCGS was founded in 1985 by seven dealers, including the firm's former president, David Hall. The founders' intent was to establish definitive grading standards, backed by a guarantee of grading accuracy. PCGS began operations on February 3, 1986. The firm has since started grading foreign coins and established divisions in Europe and Asia, and was purchased by Collectors Universe.\n\nPCGS certifies most U.S. and foreign coins, which consists of grading, authenticating, attributing, and encapsulating them in clear, airtight plastic holders. PCGS services include special label programs, \"First Strike\" designations, True View (high quality photography), conservation, and tiered certification (priced according to values and turnaround times). Coins that are improperly cleaned, doctored, damaged, or otherwise impaired will not be numerically graded by PCGS, but upon request will still be authenticated and given verbal \"details\" grades.\n\nThe PCGS holder (aka slab) is made of clear, inert plastic and is stackable. Anti-counterfeiting measures include a hologram on the back, markings within the holder, and Near Field Communication (NFC) chip embedded in some holders. Printed on the front of the blue paper insert is the coin's type, denomination, grade, attribution, pedigree (if any), serial number, Universal Product Code (UPC), and other pertinent information. First-generation PCGS coin holders are smaller and lack the raised stackable edges of later issues. Their insert was printed on plain white paper. In some of these early holders, the coin will be loose enough to produce noise when the holder is handled, thus their \"rattler\" nickname.\n\nPCGS was at one point named the official grading service of the Professional Numismatic Guild; during that time, the PNG logo was included on the holder. This design was replaced with a different one when PNG switched their affiliation to NGC.\n\nPCGS maintains a census of all coins they have graded since their inception, revealing each issue's grades, variety, designations (such as \"prooflike\" for Morgan dollars and \"full bands\" for Mercury dimes), and other significant information. Access to this report is free and updated daily on their website, though a discontinued hardcopy version was published at monthly intervals.\n\nAnalysis of the population report, and a similar report published by NGC, has allowed rarity estimates to be made of specific coins. Over time these two data bases have revealed some coins once thought rare to be remarkably common, whereas others thought more common have shown to be likely few in number. The population reports are followed closely by numismatic professionals, who recognize that population numbers can be inflated through multiple submissions of the same coins broken out of their holders and resubmitted with the hope of receiving a higher grade. Population figures can also be artificially low due to the reluctance to submit inexpensive coins—for a service that may cost more than the coins are worth.\n\nPCGS maintains CoinFacts, the \"single source of information on U.S. coins.\" The free site publishes information about all federal and most non-federal U.S. coin issues, including their rarity statistics, PCGS Price Guide values, population data, public auction performances, die varieties, and photographs.\n\nPCGS publishes a free, partial online list of U.S. and foreign coin values. The values listed are for PCGS-certified coins and are compiled from dealer advertisements and price lists, auction prices realized, and trade show transactions.\n\nIn 2001, PCGS established its free Set Registry program, which includes an online leader board that allowed collectors to compete against each other in thousands of potential sets composed of PCGS-graded coins. More than 113,000 sets are hosted. Each coin in a set is given a value computed by its relative scarcity. A version of the Registry is also maintained by PCGS' main competitor, NGC.\n\nA survey of major coin dealers, conducted by the trade associations the Professional Numismatists Guild (PNG) and the Industry Council For Tangible Assets (ICTA), revealed the dealers' \"Superior\" rating for PCGS, the highest given for any service. Of the other 10 grading services evaluated in the survey, only the Numismatic Guaranty Corporation (NGC) also received the \"Superior\" rating. Survey respondents were asked for their professional opinions to evaluate 11 grading services based on 12 different weighted criteria, such as grading and authentication accuracy. Each category was ranked by the respondents on a 10-point scale ranging from the lowest, \"Unacceptable\", to the highest, \"Outstanding\".\n\nIn 1990 the Federal Trade Commission filed a civil action against PCGS alleging exaggerated advertising claims. A settlement was reached in which PCGS did not admit wrongdoing but agreed to submit its advertising for review for five years, and include a disclaimer in its ads.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119482", "title": "St Agnes, Isles of Scilly", "text": "St Agnes, Isles of Scilly\n\nSt Agnes () is the southernmost populated island of the Isles of Scilly — Troy Town Farm on the island is the southernmost settlement in the United Kingdom.\n\nSt Agnes joins the island of Gugh by a tombolo, a kind of sandbar, called the Gugh Bar, which is exposed only at low tide. The Gugh is inhabited, with some three residents. The two islands of St Agnes and Gugh together have a population of 85 residents recorded in the 2011 census (73 were recorded in the 2001 census) and a landmass of . Without the Gugh included, St Agnes is marginally smaller than Bryher in either population or area; however if Gugh is included with St Agnes, it is Bryher that is marginally smaller in area and population.\n\nIn earlier times many men from St Agnes earned a living as pilots, guiding transatlantic liners and other vessels through the English Channel. Now the mainstay of the economy is tourism, together with some bulb farming. Accommodation is limited, and St Agnes is the only populated island in the Isles of Scilly which has no hotel. However, it has a few B&Bs and self-catering cottages, an ice cream shop, a campsite, a small post office and general store and a gift shop. It also has a pub (the Turk's Head) and a cafe, although these are closed in the winter.\n\nThe main population centre is in the north and middle of the island. The southern end of the island is covered by the heather moorland of Wingletang Down.\n\nThe island's most notable landmark is its lighthouse, which has been converted into living accommodation as the tower no longer contains a light. St. Agnes lighthouse was the second to be built in the western approaches (after the Lizard lighthouse of 1619); it was also only the second lighthouse station to be established by Trinity House (after Lowestoft in 1609).\n\nIn 1680 Trinity House began a survey of the coasts of England as it was known that the contemporary charts were inaccurate; the Isles of Scilly was plotted ten miles to the north. On 24 May that year, Trinity House was given permission to erect and maintain one or more lighthouses on the islands. St Agnes was chosen as it is the most westerly of the inhabitable islands and close to the collection of rocks, tidal flows and currents, now known as the Western Rocks. \n\nThe lighthouse was built in 1680 and stands 74' above the ground, and 138' above mean high water; the incorporation of gun ports in the structure of the tower is an unusual feature. A plaque records the original construction by Captains Hugh Hill and Simon Bayly (builders of the 1676 Lowestoft lighthouse). There were two protests against the building of the St Agnes light: officials from the Isle of Wight complained that they would lose revenue from harbour dues and victualling as shipping would prefer to use the Isles of Scilly, and the Governor of Scilly objected on the grounds that he would lose money from wrecks. Earlier petitions to build a lighthouse on St Agnes (submitted by private individuals and companies in 1665 and 1679) had been refused.\nThe light was first lit on 30 October 1680; it was provided by coal burned within a brazier atop the tower. By 1756 the brazier was set within a lantern structure made up of 16 sash windows, roofed, with multiple chimneys. The lighthouse was coal fired until 1790, when it was converted to oil: twenty-one Argand lamps with reflectors, mounted on a three-sided revolving array. This 'very novel and ingenious operation' represented an innovation in optic design which was subsequently adopted in other lighthouses, including those at Cromer and Flamborough Head. In 1806 the lantern structure at the top of the tower was rebuilt (as seen today) to accommodate an enlarged three-sided revolving array of 30 lamps, each with a 21-inch reflector. \n\nAfter the completion of Bishop Rock Lighthouse in 1858, St Agnes's lost its status as a landfall light and England's westernmost lighthouse. It was, in any case, prone to fog (due not least to its inland location). In 1880 the optical equipment was upgraded: it now consisted of fourteen reflectors and lamps (two-wick mineral oil burners), arranged (in two tiers, three above and four below) on opposite sides of a revolving square frame. The speed of rotation was increased, to give a flash every thirty seconds (rather than, as previously, every minute). In 1911 the St Agnes lighthouse was decommissioned, having been superseded by Peninnis Lighthouse (a 17-metre-tall black and white steel lattice tower situated on the southern extremity of St. Mary's island). The old lighthouse tower continues to be maintained as a daymark for shipping.\n\nOther landmarks include a standing stone known as the Nag's Head (probably a natural formation). In 1707, many of the sailors who had drowned in the great naval disaster off the Isles of Scilly were reputedly buried on the St Agnes playing field.\n\nThe Troytown Maze is said to have been laid out by the son of the lighthouse keeper in 1729, but may be much older. Although called a maze it is strictly a labyrinth with a convoluted path to the centre via seven rings. It is the only one outside Scandinavia made of beach pebbles, which may indicate it to be of Viking origin. References in the Norse sagas tell of raiders coming to Scilly as late as the mid-12th century. Any buried evidence of its origins may have been destroyed during an unofficial rebuild in 1988.\n\nSee St Agnes' Church, St Agnes.\n\nFriday evenings in the summer (end of April until start of October) see men's domestic Cornish Pilot Gig racing on Scilly, with the ladies' race on Wednesday. After the race, supporters fill the Turk's Head to discuss the race and to socialise. The pub is open through the summer, but during the winter it only opens on Wednesdays for a Pub quiz, and one other night.\n\nPeriglis Cottage was the home of St Agnes's resident ornithologist Hilda M. Quick. She was the author of \"Birds of the Scilly Isles\" published in 1964.\n\nFive Islands Academy (previously Five Islands School) has its St Agnes Base, a primary campus. Secondary pupils board at the St Mary's main campus, staying there on weekdays and coming back and forth to their home islands on weekends.\n\nStudents at the sixth-form college level reside and board elsewhere, in mainland Great Britain. Previously the Learning and Skills Council paid for costs of accommodation for sixth-formers.\n\nOver one third of the area of St Agnes is designated as Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI). In the south of the island Wingletang Down is noted for its heath, dune grassland and rocky coast and is the only site in Britain where the fern least adder's–tongue (\"Ophioglossum lusitanicum\") grows. Other rare plants include the orchid autumn lady's-tresses (\"Spiranthes spiralis\") and early meadow-grass (\"Poa infirma\"). The only freshwater pools on St Agnes are Big Pool and Little Pool in the north-west of the island which are part of the Big Pool and Browarth Point SSSI. Big Pool shows evidence for inundation by the 1775 Lisbon tsunami that was caused by the 1755 Lisbon earthquake. The vegetation has some brackish influence because of occasional influx of the sea during winter storms with rushes such as saltmarsh rush (\"Juncus gerardi\") and sea club–rush (\"Scirpus maritimus\"). The surrounding grassland, which is also a cricket pitch, is notable for the clovers amongst its flora including western clover (\"Trifolium occidentale\"), suffocated clover (\"T. suffocatum\") and subterranean clover (\"T. subterraneum\"). Other plants include adder's-tongue (\"Ophioglossum vulgatum\") and small adder's-tongue (\"O. azoricum\").\n\nSt Agnes is visited by birdwatchers, particularly during the ″Scilly season″ of September and October. Among the many vagrant birds which have been found here around this time are the following, which were all ″firsts″ for Britain:\n\nIn addition:\n\nAmong rare vagrants recorded at other times of year are the following:\n\nSt Agnes is one of the five civil parishes of the Isles of Scilly, which are also wards. The civil parish and ward include Gugh and several uninhabited islands and rocks, including the Western Rocks, Annet, Rosevear, Pednathise Head (the southernmost land in the UK) and the Bishop Rock. St Agnes returns one councillor to the Council of the Isles of Scilly, the same as the other \"off-island\" wards. The civil parish is not functional however, and there is no council or meeting.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119483", "title": "Saint-Vincent-de-Paul, Quebec", "text": "Saint-Vincent-de-Paul, Quebec\n\nSaint-Vincent-de-Paul is a district in the eastern part of Laval, Quebec, Canada. Saint-Vincent-de-Paul was a town before August 6, 1965. Saint-Vincent-de-Paul is named after Vincent de Paul.\n\nIt is surrounded by Duvernay at the west and by Saint-François at the north and east.\n\nThe Pie IX Bridge connects St-Vincent-de-Paul and the Montreal borough of Montreal North across the Rivière des Prairies.\n\nCommission scolaire de Laval operates Francophone public schools.\n\nIt has one Francophone private school: Collège Laval\n\nSir Wilfrid Laurier School Board operates Anglophone public schools. Elementary schools serving Saint-Vincent-de-Paul include:\nAll portions of Laval are zoned to Laval Junior Academy and Laval Senior Academy.\n"}
{"id": "2119485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119485", "title": "Sam Endicott", "text": "Sam Endicott\n\nSamuel Bingham Endicott (born August 13, 1974) is an American songwriter, multi-instrumentalist, actor and director. He is best known as the lead vocalist of The Bravery, with whom he recorded three studio albums. He is currently the lead singer of The Mercy Beat.\n\nAt age 11 Endicott began playing guitar and at 12 switched to bass guitar. By age 13 he was an established bass player in the Washington, D.C. area, playing in numerous punk and harDCore bands, most notably Stain, with Geoff Turner of Gray Matter and Colin Sears of Dag Nasty. He has stated that his biggest influence as a bass player is Joe Lally of Fugazi, and he initially sought to emulate Lally's melodic style of playing.\n\nWhile attending Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, New York, Endicott was classmates with future Bravery keyboardist John Conway. The two began a musical partnership, playing together in various projects in the Poughkeepsie area. After graduating with B.A. in Psychology, Endicott and Conway moved to New York City, where their musical partnership continued. In 2003 he switched from bass guitar to vocals and began writing, recording and producing the music that would become the first Bravery album. Guitarist Michael Zakarin joined after answering an advert in a local paper, and brought with him bassist Mike Hindert, a classmate of his from Georgetown University in Washington, DC. Drummer Anthony Burulcich was living in Boston where he had studied percussion at Berklee College of Music. After the death of his sister, Burulcich moved back to his childhood home in Long Island New York to be with his family. On the day Burulcich was moving, while driving with his belongings in a Uhaul truck, Endicott called him. The Bravery went on to release their debut album in March 2005.\n\nEndicott is a multi-instrumentalist playing guitar, bass, vocals, keyboards and programs electronic drums and synthesizers. Endicott has also co-directed and written a number of the Bravery's music videos, making his music video directing debut with the video for the Bravery's \"Believe\" in 2008. He is also credited as producer on the Bravery's debut album, as well as the \"Moon\" portion of their \"The Sun and the Moon Complete\", described as an \"alternate take\" on their second release \"The Sun and the Moon\". Endicott co-produced the Bravery's third studio album Stir The Blood.\n\nWhile recording the Stir the Blood album, Endicott and producer John Hill co-wrote three songs with Shakira for her album She Wolf, including the single She Wolf and critically acclaimed song \"Men In This Town\". She Wolf and its Spanish version counterpart \"Loba,\" had major commercial success worldwide.\n\nEndicott, alongside Switch, Santigold, and John HIll also co-wrote the Christina Aguilera song \"Monday Morning\" for Aguilera's album \"Bionic\".\n\nEndicott also appears as an actor in the independent film \"Modern Romance.\"\n\nEndicott was featured on the February, 2005 cover of L'oumo Vogue.\n\nEndicott was a feature model for the 2008 European Gap Campaign.\n\nEndicott formed a new band with friends called The Mercy Beat. The band released a three-song EP in 2014 which he has described as experimental punk soul.\n\nEndicott grew up in Brookmont, Maryland. He is an only child of William Endicott and Abigail Bingham Endicott, a vocalist and teacher.\n\nEndicott attended Georgetown Day School before transferring to Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts.\n\nAccording to a November 2009 interview from the Spinner website, Endicott reported that he has synesthesia. In 2011, he relocated to Los Angeles, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119489", "title": "Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation", "text": "Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation\n\nPhilippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation (PAGCOR, ) is a government-owned and controlled corporation established through the \"Presidential Decree 1869\". PAGCOR is the Philippines' largest contributor of revenue to the government after the Bureau of Internal Revenue and the Bureau of Customs.\n\nPAGCOR is under the Office of the President of the Philippines.\n\nAfter its establishment, PAGCOR entered itself into a contract with Philippine Casino Operators Corporation (PCOC) for the operation of the floating casino in the Manila Bay in 1977. However, after the floating casino was gutted by fire in 1979, PAGCOR shifted its focus to land-based casinos and entered into another contract with PCOC for the management of a casino at the Provident International and Resources Corporation (PIRC) building on Imelda Avenue, Parañaque City, Metro Manila, Philippines. Then, under \"Presidential Decree 1869\", decreed in 1983, it was mandated to act as the sole government corporation conducting and establishing gaming pools and casinos in the country. In 1986, it was re-established and reorganized by Philippine President Corazon C. Aquino as a New PAGCOR to help raise funds for the government; Norberto Quisumbing was appointed as its first Chairman, followed by the former Development Bank of the Philippines chair Alicia LL. Reyes as its Chair and CEO. Reyes was succeeded by Ephraim Genuino under the appointment by Philippine President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo in 2001.\n\nThe firm operates its own casinos and several VIP slot clubs in major cities across the country. It also oversees and regulates privately owned casinos, more than 180 bingo parlors, as well as e-games cafes across the country. The company employs more than 11,000 workers. In June 2007, PAGCOR gained from a piece of legislation, \"Republic Act 9487\", which granted the state-run gaming firm, then under the leadership of Chairman Genuino, another 25 years to regulate and operate games of chance, to issue licenses, and to enter into joint venture, management, or investment agreements with private entities for the Entertainment City in the Manila Bay area, Parañaque, and in Newport City, Pasay, in particular. Chairman Genuino successfully attracted investors to the project to put up Las Vegas-style integrated resorts. Two integrated resorts opened on November 1, 2014.\n\nOn July 13, 2018, PAGCOR announced the appointment of Attorney Angeline Papica-Entienza as the head of the agency’s Gaming Licensing and Development Department and as the assistant vice president of the corporation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119490", "title": "Division 3 (Swedish football)", "text": "Division 3 (Swedish football)\n\nDivision 3 is the fifth level in the league system of Swedish football and comprises 144 Swedish football teams. Division 3 had status as the official third level from 1928 to 1986, but was replaced by Division 2 in 1987. It then had status as the official fourth level until 2005, but was replaced once again as Division 1 was recreated in 2006.\n\nThere are 144 clubs in Division 3, divided in 12 groups of 12 teams each representing a geographical area. During the course of a season (starting in April and ending in October) each club plays the others twice, once at their home stadium and once at that of their opponents, for a total of 22 games. The top team in each Division 3 group is promoted to Division 2 and the two lowest placed teams from each Division 2 league are relegated in their place. The second placed teams in each Division 3 group plays promotion/relegation play-offs against the third lowest teams in Division 2.\n\nNormally, at the end of each season the three lowest placed teams of each group are relegated to the regional Division 4 and thirty-six teams from the regional Division 4 leagues are promoted in their place while the fourth lowest placed teams in the Division 3 leagues plays promotion/relegation play-offs against teams in Division 4. There were a series of relegation/promotion play-offs at the end of the 2010 season.\n\nThe Swedish Football Association ( SvFF) is responsible for the administration of Division 3.\n\n\"2014 season\"\n\n\n\"Source:\"\n\n\n\"Source:\"\n\n\n\"Source:\"\n\n\n\"Source:\"\n\n\n\"Source:\"\n\n\n\"Source:\"\n\n\n\"Source:\"\n\n\n\"Source:\"\n\n\n\"Source:\"\n\n\n\"Source:\"\n\n\n\"Source:\"\n\n\n\"Source:\"\n"}
{"id": "2119491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119491", "title": "Casio Exilim", "text": "Casio Exilim\n\nExilim is a brand of digital cameras introduced in 2002 by Casio.\n\nThe Exilim Card series was notably thinner than other small digital cameras at the time of its introduction, typically 10–15 millimetres thick compared to other manufacturers' comparable models that were 25–35 millimeters thick. This sparked competition to make slimmer compact digital cameras, with other manufacturers bringing out lines of comparably thin cameras from 2004.\n\nOn April 24, 2018, Casio ceased the production of its digital cameras, including the Exilim brand following the loss of some 500 million yen that ended in March 2017.\n\nThe Exilim Card series are ultra-compact models. The cameras were first branded as \"Wearable Card Cameras\" and are about the size of a credit card and 9 mm-16 mm thick. The early models only had digital zoom, though more recent models have optical zoom as well.\n\nThe Exilim Zoom series is the all-purpose line, all including an optical zoom. Several newer models support H.264 video compression which uses much less storage than Motion JPEG format.\n\nThe Exilim Professional is the bridge digital camera line, with higher-quality optics and greater zoom.\n\nAll models use Secure Digital (SD) or Multi Media Card (MMC). They come with a small amount of internal memory and are not bundled with a memory card. Many Exilim cameras come with a bundled charging and docking cradle. The cradle is used to recharge the camera's battery and to connect the camera to a PC or PictBridge compatible printer.\n\nImages are recorded as JPEGs with Exif data. Raw images from the CCD are not available by default, though on some models a service menu can be accessed allowing images to be recorded as the raw data.\n\nThe cameras use a Casio \"proprietary\" lithium ion battery. All the later models have 2.5\" or wider LCD screens and come with more than 20 shooting modes.\n\nIn 2007, several Exilim models introduced support for highly compressed H.264 video in 848x480(HQ Wide), 640x480(HQ/Normal), 320x240(LP) modes. One benefit of H.264 is that it uses much less storage than Motion JPEG, a widely-used video format for consumer digital cameras. However, videos are deliberately limited to 10 minutes in China, DI, and EU, because of customs import tariffs discriminating between picture and movie cameras.\n\nExilim models such as the EX-Z1200 that incorporate MPEG-4 video benefit from extended recording times due to higher quality compression. On \"normal\" quality, MPEG-4 allows more than an hour of 640x480, 30frame/s video to be recorded on a 1 GB memory card.\n\nSome cameras allow high-speed photography. The EX-FC100 and EX-FS10 allow taking short bursts of 30 pictures per second and shooting video up to 1000 frames per second, the EX-FH20 offers bursts of 40 pictures per second and 1000 frame/s video, and the EX-F1 offers bursts of 60 pictures per second and video of 1200 frame/s. However, the resolution of the video decreases drastically with increasing speed; in case of EX-F1, 300 frame/s are at 512x384 pixels, 600 frame/s at 432x192, and 1200 frame/s at 336x96. The burst shots are at full resolution. The EX-FC100 records 480x360 at 210 frame/s, 224x168 at 420 frame/s, and 224x64 at 1,000 frame/s. The Casio EX-FH25 is able to shoot at up to 1,000 frame/s at 224x64.\n\n\nCameras whose model number ends in U (e.g. EX-Z4U) are models only released in North America, without some of the functions of the non-U models.\n\nM models are based on the corresponding S model but also record audio (as WAV) and play back WAV and MP3.\n\nCasio's NP-20 batteries are claimed to hold 700 mAh of charge, while the thicker NP-40 is rated for 1230 mAh and the NP-90 has 1700mAh..\n\n"}
{"id": "2119494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119494", "title": "Boisfeuillet Jones Jr.", "text": "Boisfeuillet Jones Jr.\n\nBoisfeuillet \"Bo\" Jones Jr. ( ; born 1946) was president and chief executive officer of MacNeil/Lehrer Productions in Arlington, Virginia. He was former Vice Chairman of The Washington Post Company and Chairman of The Washington Post board from 2008 until December 31, 2011. From 2000 to 2008 he was publisher and chief executive officer of \"The Washington Post\".\n\nJones was born in Atlanta in 1946 to Boisfeuillet Jones Sr., a philanthropist, and Laura Coit Jones. Anne Baynon Register Jones became his step-mother following the death of his mother and the marriage of his father to Anne Register. Jones went to high school at St. Albans School in Washington, D.C., and later received an A.B. in 1968 from Harvard College, where he was president of The Harvard Crimson and a member of the Spee Club. At both St. Albans and Harvard he was two years behind Donald E. Graham, his future employer. He attended Exeter College, Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar and received a D.Phil. in modern history. He received his J.D. in 1974 from Harvard Law School, where he was an editor of the \"Harvard Law Review.\"\n\nPrior to joining \"The Post\", Jones was an attorney with Hill and Barlow in Boston from 1975 to 1980, and was law clerk for judge Levin H. Campbell of the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, from 1974 to 1975.\n\nJones joined the \"Post\" in 1980 as vice president and counsel. In 1995, he became president and general manager of the \"Post\", assuming responsibility for the business side of the newspaper. In January 2000, he was named associate publisher, assuming responsibility of the \"Post\" on a day-to-day basis. In September 2000 he became publisher and CEO.\n\nHe is a director of the Associated Press, the Newspaper Association of America, the Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Foundation, and the Federal City Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119495", "title": "William Romaine", "text": "William Romaine\n\nWilliam Romaine (1714 at Hartlepool – 1795), evangelical divine of the Church of England, was author of works once highly thought of by the evangelicals, the trilogy \"The Life, the Walk, and the Triumph of Faith\".\n\nRomaine was born at Hartlepool, County Durham, on 25 September 1714 the son of a corn merchant of French Protestant descent. He was educated at Houghton-le-Spring Royal Kepier Grammar School and Christ Church, Oxford.\n\nRomaine was ordained as a deacon in 1736, and became curate of Loe Trenchard in Devon. He was ordained as a priest in December 1738, following which he became curate of Banstead in Surrey and Horton in Middlesex, holding both posts concurrently.\n\nIn 1739 he became engaged in a bitter controversy over the views of William Warburton. In 1741 he was appointed chaplain to the Lord Mayor of London, Daniel Lambert, who had his country house at Banstead, a post which gave him the opportunity to preach in St Paul's Cathedral. In 1748 he became a lecturer at St George Botolph Lane in the City of London, and the next year was appointed, in addition, to two lectureships at St Dunstan-in-the-West in Fleet Street.\n\nIt was in about 1748 he underwent an evangelical conversion. He used his positions as lecturer to preach evangelical doctrine to large crowds despite the opposition of the church hierarchy. In 1750 was afforded a further opportunity to evangelise when he was appointed assistant morning preacher at the fashionable church of St George's, Hanover Square in the West End of London. In 1751 he also accepted for a short time the professorship of Gresham Professor of Astronomy at Gresham College, His biographer William Bromley Cadogan wrote that in this role, Romaine \"attempted to prove, that God was best acquainted with his own works, and had given the best account of them in his own words\".\n\nFrom 1756, while retaining his position at St Dunstan's, Romaine was a curate and morning preacher at St Olave's in Southwark. He also acted as a travelling preacher, going as far afield as Yorkshire and the West Country, and served as one of the Countess of Huntingdon's chaplains. In 1766, following a long dispute over his election, he became Rector of St Andrew by the Wardrobe.\n\nRomaine was a notable Hebrew scholar, and published a four volume revision of Marios de Calasio's Hebrew dictionary and concordance between 1747 and 1749.\n\nHe died on 26 July 1795 and was buried in the church of St Andrew by the Wardrobe.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119504", "title": "Eddie Anthony", "text": "Eddie Anthony\n\nEdward Anthony (1890 – 1934) is an American country blues and jazz musician. He played the violin.\n\nHis style of playing, primarily accompanying Peg Leg Howell, offered the rarity of black string band music, which disappeared with the advent of the recording of blues guitarists. Anthony worked with Howell throughout the 1920s and early 1930s. He also recorded \"Georgia Crawl\" with Henry Williams, a re-working of the earlier Spencer Williams penned song \"Georgia Grind\", as well as \"Lonesome Blues\" (1928).\n\nAnthony died in Atlanta, Georgia, United States, in 1934.\n"}
{"id": "2119511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119511", "title": "Abucay, Bataan", "text": "Abucay, Bataan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe mainly agricultural and fishing town is situated on the northeastern portion of the Bataan Peninsula, along Manila Bay, with a total land area of . It is from Manila, accessible via the Bataan Provincial Expressway, off Exit 25, or the parallel National Road in Bataan. Its westernmost elevated section is located within the Bataan National Park.\n\nAbucay originated from \"abu-kinaykay\" meaning \"digging the ashes\".\n\nThe first printing press in the Archipelago was found in this town. Tomas Pinpin, the first Filipino printer, learned the art from Fray Francisco Blanca de San Jose and Juan de Vera, a Chinese printer at the University of Santo Tomas.\n\nOn June 23, 1647, a fierce battle was fought between the Dutch invaders and the Pampango defenders in the near the Abucay church area. Nearly 200 Pampangos were put to death and 40 others together with Pampanga’s Spanish \"alcalde mayor\" (town mayor) Antonio de Cabrera. Dominican priests Father Geronimo Sotomayor and Father Tomas Ramos were taken to Batavia.\n\nAbucay borders Balanga City (the capital city) to the south, Samal to the north and northwest, Morong to the west, and Manila Bay to the east.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Bataan.\n\nTopography of Abucay varies from the mountainous terrain of Mount Natib caldera in the west to the coastal areas of the province along the shore of Manila Bay. Six rivers with a combined length of originate from the mountain flowing in the west-to-east direction.\n\nSecondary forests cover the western mountainous portion which is nearly 38% of Abucay's land area.\n\nAbucay is politically subdivided into 9 barangays.\n\nIn the , Abucay had a population of . The population density was .\n\nMost of the people of Abucay speak the Tagalog language. There are also residents who speak \"Kapampangang Hilaw,\" a dialect variation of the Kapampangan language, in Barangay Mabatang.\n\nAbucay is basically an agricultural and fishing town. Besides Manila Bay, existing fishponds cover an area of of which are under intensive use while the rest are non-functioning but available for utilization. These fishponds are rich with commercial species like milkfish, tilapia, pla-pla and shrimps.\n\nAgricultural lands in Abucay produces rice, corn, root crops, legumes, vegetable and various kinds of fruits as well as forest-grown bamboo and buho. Most of the \"walis tambo\" (local brooms) sold in Baguio City come from Abucay.\n\nThe political seat of the municipal government is located at the Municipal Hall (also called Town Hall). During the Spanish colonial period, the \"Gobernadorcillo\" was the chief executive who held office at the town hall, then called the \"Presidencia\".\n\nDuring the American period from 1898–1946, the elected Mayor and local officials, including the appointed ones hold office at the Municipal Town Hall. The executive and legislative departments perform their functions at the Sangguniang Bayan (Session Hall) and Municipal Trial Court, respectively, which are located at the Municipal Hall.\n\nAbucay's incumbent elected officials are Mayor Liberato P. Santiago (NPC), a land developer and a nth-time re-electionist, and Vice Mayor Ma. Khristine G. Dela Fuente (Lakas-Kampi-CMD). Santiago owns various villages and subdivisions - all converted from ricefields or fishponds. The eight (8) Sangguniang Bayan members led by the Vice Mayor hold office at the Abucay Sangguniang Bayan Session Hall.\n\nOne of the oldest in the Philippines, the first Abucay Church was established in 1587 and was administered by the Dominicans in 1588. The present church was built sometime in the early 1600s, the exact year is still unknown. The Church was badly damaged by the earthquake of September 16, 1852, and again by a fire in 1870. Father Jose Diego Pelaez rebuilt the church.\n\nThe church still houses the bells donated in 1839 and 1859. The five bells of the Abucay Church were restored on January 17, 1978, by U.S. Naval Base Facility in Subic Bay, Zambales province according to a historical marker in the church.\n\nThe Parish of Saint Dominic de Guzman has a population of 19,501 Catholics. Its patron saint is Saint Dominic de Guzman and the town's feast day is August 8. The present parish priest is Rev. Fr. Josue V. Enero succeeding Rev. Msgr. Remigio R. Hizon, Jr. in June 2017. The church belongs to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Balanga under the Vicariate of Saint Dominic de Guzman.\n\nLandmarks include the following:\n\n\nElectric power for Abucay is served by the Peninsula Electric Cooperative (PENELCO).\n\nA sanitary landfill in Sitio Macao in Barangay Capitangan is the first of its kind in the province of Bataan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119512", "title": "Bagac", "text": "Bagac\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nWith an area of , Bagac is the largest municipality in Bataan.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Bataan.\n\nBagac borders Balanga (the provincial capital) to the north, Orion and\nLimay to the east, Mariveles to the south, and Morong and the South China Sea to the west.\n\nBagac is politically subdivided into 14 barangays.\n\nIn the , Bagac had a population of . The population density was .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119515", "title": "Dinalupihan", "text": "Dinalupihan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nDinaluphian, the only landlocked town in the province, is accessible via SCTEX (Subic-Clark-Tarlac Expressway) and the Bataan Provincial Expressway, off Exit 5.\n\n\"Dinalupijan\" came from the festival rights of \"Aeta\" pygmies. To commemorate their idol \"Indianalo\", the goddess of hunting and bountiful harvest.\"Indianalo\" was paired with the Sanskrit word \"jann\", meaning paradise. \"Indianalopijann\" was the name given to the land that the \"Aetas\" received from their goddess which translates to Indianalo's paradise. As time progresses, the name \"Indianalopijann\" turned into \"Dinalupihan\".\n\nThe name \"Dinalupihan\" also means \"empty lands\", coming from the Spanish terms \"din, a\", and \"lupia\". It referred to the fact that it failed to produce little revenue while it was an estate of the Archdiocese of Manila during the second half of the 18th century.\n\nDinalupihan borders Hermosa to the south and southeast, the province of Zambales to the northwest and the province of Pampanga to the north and northeast. Floridablanca, Pampanga, is located directly to the north, and San Fernando, Pampanga, its regional center is located to the north-northeast.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Bataan. \n\nDinalupihan is politically subdivided into 46 barangays.\n\nIn the , Dinalupihan had a population of . The population density was .\n\nPursuant to the Local government in the Philippines\", the political seat of the municipal government is located at the Municipal Town Hall. In the History of the Philippines (1521–1898), the \"Gobernadorcillo\" was the Chief Executive who held office in the \"Presidencia\". During the American rule (1898–1946) (History of the Philippines (1898-1946)), the elected Mayor and local officials, including the appointed ones hold office at the Municipal Town Hall. The legislative and executive departments perform their functions in the Sangguniang Bayan (Session Hall) and Municipal Trial Court, respectively, and are located in the Town Hall.\n\nDinalupihan, Bataan's incumbent Mayor is Gila Garcia (NUP) and the Vice Mayor is Renato Matawaran (AKSYON).\n\nSangguniang Bayan Members are: Ricardo De Ausen, Martin Tongol Jr., Danny Dela Cruz, Rolly Buniag, Amy Sandoval, Zaldy Torno, Maning Inza Cruz, Arnold Soriano, ABC Armando Buniag and SK Ernest Estanislao.\n\nDinalupihan's interesting points, landmarks and festivals, are:\nSaint John the Baptist Parish Church (in Poblacion) belongs to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Balanga (Dioecesis Balangensis) Suffragan of San Fernando, Pampanga Created: March 17, 1975. Canonically Erected: November 7, 1975. Comprises the whole civil province of Bataan. Titular: St. Joseph, Husband of Mary, April 28. Bishop Most Reverend Ruperto Cruz Santos, DD).\n\nIts Feast day is June 24. It is under the Vicariate of Saint Peter of Verona I - Vicariate of Our Lady, Mirror of Justice. The Catholic population is about 25,438.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119517", "title": "Hermosa, Bataan", "text": "Hermosa, Bataan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\n\"Hermosa\" means \"beautiful\" in Spanish. It has a total land area of .\n\nHermosa is home to the Roosevelt Protected Landscape. It is accessible via the Bataan Provincial Expressway, off Exit 10.\n\nAccording to legend, a group of Spaniards first came to this place, surprised and amazed they exclaimed, \"Que Hermosa! Que Hermosa!\", when they saw some pretty maidens with long, black hair washing clothes and bathing in the brook. The boys who accompanied their sisters repeated what they heard from the Spaniards and upon returning home they repeated again and again what the Spaniards exclaimed. When the next group of Spaniards visited the place, they asked for its name. The folks didn't understand Spanish but answered \"Hermosa, Hermosa\". And that was how Hermosa got its name.\n\nAnother version was that \"Llana Hermosa\", meaning beautiful plain of white flowers was the original name of this town. When the province was created, the town was formally named Hermosa, a name that fits the place not only due to the plain's white flowers but more so to the beautiful maidens and places that abound the town.\n\nHistorically, the town was established in 1756 by Dominican priests. At that time, it was known as Llana Hermosa and composed of Mabuco and Mabuyan. It was then still part of Pampanga, like the rest of Bataan. It became an independent missionary center in 1756 with Saint Peter de Verona as its patron saint.\n\nThe town of Hermosa was very peaceful and progressive before World War II. When the war broke out, their quiet routine was disturbed. During the Bataan Death March, civilians of Hermosa risked the ire of the Japanese by secretly passing food to Filipino and American soldiers.\n\nHermosa is south of Dinalupihan and borders the province of the Pampanga to the northeast, with Manila Bay to the east.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Bataan.\n\nHermosa is politically subdivided into 23 barangays.\n\nIn the , Hermosa had a population of . The population density was .\n\nExisting industries in Hermosa are garments, handpainted jars, \"balut\" and salted egg making. Today, fruit processing particularly of mangoes and bananas, handicrafts, and stuffed toys are the major produce of this town. Probably less known, but existing for a long time is the aquaculture industry, traditionally for \"bangus\", tilapia and crabs, but more recently for prawns, which was found more lucrative.\n\nHermosa Rural Bank serves the banking needs of the municipality. Major bus lines and mini-bus coming from Manila, San Fernando and Olongapo pass through the town of Hermosa while the most common type of transport within the municipality are jeepneys and tricycles. The newly established Hermosa Public Market in barangay Palihan has also the terminal of vehicles going to Clark and Mabalacat in Pampanga via SCTEX. The town has a total of 1 bank, 21 schools, 15 medical clinics/health centers, and 2 recreational facilities.\n\nThe Zone is adapted for building light to medium industries, recreational and housing facilities for industry and residents inside the zone investments in fruit processing utilizing the abundant supply of mangoes and banana in the province. The Subic Hermosa Cybercity is a 93-hectare Special Economic Zone which will host locator Businesses dealing in Information Technology (IT), manufacture of electronic products, IT research and development, and multi-media industries.\n\nPursuant to the Local government in the Philippines\", the political seat of the municipal government is located at the Municipal Hall. In the History of the Philippines (1521–1898), the \"Gobernadorcillo\" was the Chief Executive who held office in the \"Presidencia\". During the American rule (1898–1946) (History of the Philippines (1898-1946)), the elected Mayor and local officials, including the appointed ones held office at the Municipal Hall. The legislative and executive departments perform their functions in the Sangguniang Bayan (Session Hall) and Municipal Trial Court, respectively, and are located in the Town Hall.\n\nHermosa's Mayor is Antonio Joseph Rivera Inton, The Vice Mayor is Eigie Malana.\n\nSangguniang Bayan Members are: Patrick S. Rellosa, Jenna Marie Basi, Floyd Tungol, Lou Narciso, Luzviminda J. Samaniego, Regalado D. Santos Wilson M. Valencia, Christopher Vitug.\n\nHermosa's cultural treasure is its 1717 heritage church.\n\nHermosa, known as \"Llana Hermosa\" belonged formerly to Orani (composed of Mabuyan and Maboco). It became an independent missionary \"Pueblo\" in 1717. In the British invasion of Manila, the Dominicans held there its provincial chapters in 1763. The Hermosa church was destroyed by fire several times. Residents of Hermosa found a boat with a statue of a saint inside it along the river.\n\nSaint Peter of Verona, O.P. (1206 – April 6, 1252), also known as \"Saint Peter Martyr\", was a 13th-century Italian Catholic priest, Dominican friar and a celebrated preacher. He became the patron of this town.\n\nThe church features a baroque-style façade with stained-glasses windows. The major retablo of Hermosa is made more attractive by the variations of saints placed in it amid its dome. The church brings remembrance of the colonial past.\n\nThe Parish of Saint Peter of Verona belongs to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Balanga. Its Feast day is May 3. It is under the Vicariate of Saint Peter Verona. It is also under the Vicariate of Our Lady, Mirror of Justice (\"Dioecesis Balangensis\"), Suffragan of San Fernando, Pampanga).\n\nDigitel is the major provider of telecommunication services in the municipality. Hermosa is 100% electrified and is being served by the Peninsula Electric Company (PENELCO). Major source of water for domestic use is ground water. Existing water systems are artesian and open wells, pumps and pipeline with tanks. Two barangays are being served by a common facility through the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA). In addition, a new facility was installed in barangay Mabuco, which now served the whole \"poblacion\".\n\nCable TV is provided by the Hermosa Cable, Destiny and Malasimbu. Internet connection is also provided by Digitel, and Smart (SmartBro). A National Grid Corporation of the Philippines (NGCP) Hermosa Substation is located at Jose Abad Santos Avenue, just before entering Pampanga. It also provides power to the municipality other than Penelco through its transmission lines.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119520", "title": "Limay, Bataan", "text": "Limay, Bataan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLimay is accessible via the Bataan Provincial Expressway (Route 301), off Exit 45, San Fernando Exit. Located at the south-eastern section of Bataan Peninsula, it is from Manila and south from the provincial capital Balanga.\n\nThe Dominican and Franciscan friars settled in Limay by the late 1600s, using its rich limestone deposits to build churches in Orion and Balanga. The town was a barangay of Orion.\n\nIn the Philippine revolution of 1898, Limay inhabitants fought for their independence. American Governor-General Francis Burton Harrison's Executive Order of January 1, 1917 created Limay as the last Bataan municipality.\n\nIn 1913, the Cadwallader-Gibson Lumber Company employed Limayans and Visayan immigrants.\n\nDuring the World War II, Limay became the host to the first medical hospital of American and Filipino forces, run by the \"Angels of Bataan\". In Lamao, Limay, Major General Edward P. King capitulated to the Japanese forces, after the last stand of the American and Filipino forces faltered along the banks of the Alangan River.\n\nLimay is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Bataan.\n\nLimay is politically subdivided into 12 barangays.\n\nIn the , Limay had a population of . The population density was .\n\nPursuant to the local government, the political seat of the municipal government is located at the Municipal Hall. In the Spanish colonial period, the \"Gobernadorcillo\" was the Chief Executive who held office in the \"Presidencia\". During the American rule (1898–1946), the elected Mayor and local officials, including the appointed ones held office at the Municipal Hall. The legislative and executive departments perform their functions in the Sangguniang Bayan (Session Hall) and Municipal Trial Court, respectively, and are located in the Town Hall.\n\nLimay, Bataan's incumbent elected officials are headed by – Mayor Nelson C. David (PDP-LBN) and Vice Mayor Richie Jason David.\n\nThe Sangguniang Bayan Members are:\n\nThey hold office at the newly constructed Batasang Bayan in Barangay Wawa, inside the Judy's Park facility along the Limay coastline.\n\nLimay's attractions, events and historical landmarks include:\n\nThe 1935 Saint Francis of Assisi Parish Church (Barangay Poblacion) (Cath.: 26,440, Titular: St. Francis of Assisi, Feast day – October 4. with former Parish Priest, Father Rosauro Guila and Guest Priest: Father Guillermo Ramo)) is under the Vicariate of Saint Michael Archangel. It belongs to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Balanga – The Vicariate of St. Peter).\n\nIts Parish Priest is Fr. Felizardo D. Sevilla.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119544", "title": "Morong, Bataan", "text": "Morong, Bataan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality is home to the Subic Bay International Airport, the Bataan Nuclear Power Plant, and the former Philippine Refugee Processing Center. Morong was formerly known as \"Moron\". It is accessible via the Bataan Provincial Expressway, off Exit 65.\n\nMorong, originally called \"Bayandati\", was a small settlement located in Barrio Nagbalayong. Due to the scarcity of land available for cultivation, the early inhabitants migrated to adjacent areas where wider lands can be discovered. They found Poblacion, the present site where the Spaniards met the natives of Moron.\n\nFolkloric tradition alludes the etymology of the name Moron to the Spaniards' mishearing of the phrase \"mga Moro umurong\" when they asked the local people the name of their village. The historical accuracy of this etymology is questionable, however, since early Filipinos could not have known or used the term Moro as it were the Spaniards who have started using the term to refer to Filipino Moslems, a Spanish term for the Moslem Moorish conquerors of 8th century Spain.\n\nThe most probable etymology comes from the Spanish word morón which refers to a hill which can be seen from the sea. Several towns are also named Morón namely Morón in Cuba; Morón de la Fronterra in Sevilla, Spain; and Morón in Buenos Aires, Argentina. These place all have hilly topographies and are nearby the ocean.\n\nOn June 10, 1955, Moron was renamed Morong by virtue of Republic Act No. 1249..\n\nIn 1754, it became part of \"Corrigimento de Mariveles\" together with Bagac and Maragondon, Cavite. But it was only in 1607 that Morong was officially founded as an ecclesiastical parish by the Augustinian Recollects as well as being founded by Fr. Rodrigo de San Miguel who placed it under the protection of the Our Lady of the Pillar. The Our Lady of the Pillar Parish of Morong, erected in 1607 and is now one of the oldest seats of Catholic faith in the Philippines; originally orchestrated from the elements of the Gothic, Renaissance, and Baroque sources. It culminated its 400th Year foundation anniversary on October 12, 2007.\n\nDuring the onset of the war, able-bodied men from Morong, Bataan were called to volunteer for the army. Many residents answered the call to serve. Later after the fall of Bataan up until the Liberation, boonie guerilla groups sought to fight and sabotage the Japanese occupying forces.\n\nFor the defense of Bataan, the main and first battle position established by the USAFFE was the Mabatang(Abucay)-Mauban(Morong) Line. General Wainwright was in command of the Mauban side of the defense. \n\nOn 16 January 1942, Imperial Japanese Army and an Allied coalition of Filipino-American forces both raced to capture Morong. Although both had arrived at approximately the same time, the allies were the first to notice the other party (the Japanese). To therefore commit a surprise attack, Lieutenant Edwin P. Ramsey of the 26th Cavalry Regiment ordered his troops to charge; the 27 heavily outnumbered Filipino and American cavalrymen charged and scattered the surprised Japanese. It was the last charge of American cavalry\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Bataan.\n\nMorong is bounded by Dinalupihan to the northeast, Hermosa and Orani to the east, and province of the Zambales to the north. Olongapo City is located directly north of Morong, accessible via SBMA - Olongapo Access Road through Rizal Highway to Aguinado Road or Security Road to East 14th Street.\n\nMorong is politically subdivided into 5 barangays.\n\nThe Pawikan Conservation Center is a community-based effort to protect turtles in Morong with a focus on protecting the Olive Ridley species.\n\nIn the , Morong had a population of . The population density was .\n\nExisting industries in Morong include mango/cashew production as well as vinegar making from nipa palm nuts and the production of basketry using jungle vines.\n\nThere is some variety of developments intended for Morong. Industries targeted for development are the manufacturing of component parts or assembly operations. In addition, there are plans to establish convention centers, exhibit halls, golf course and clubs, entertainment and leisure and sports centers, hotels, beach resorts and meditation centers.\n\nMorong has also had some activity in mining. In 1972 it had mining activity from Long Beach Mining Corporation producing magnetite concentrate from beach sands and in 2017 there was headway into opening 709.6 hectares of land to Gandara minerals and development corporation in order to mine basalt and other associated minerals.\n\nThe Bataan Technology Park (informally called the \"\"Technopark\"\") is the main zone of the Morong Special Economic Zone (MSEZ), established in March 1997 after a previous ecozone which was established under the 1992 Bases Conversion and Development Act. The park's investors can claim the following benefits:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119545", "title": "Merneith", "text": "Merneith\n\nMerneith (also written Meritneith and Meryt-Neith) was a consort and a regent of Ancient Egypt during the First Dynasty. She may have been a ruler of Egypt in her own right, based on several official records. If this was the case and the earlier royal wife Neithhotep never ruled as an independent regent, Merneith may have been the first female pharaoh and the earliest queen regnant in recorded history. Her rule occurred around 2950 BC for an undetermined period. Merneith’s name means \"Beloved by Neith\" and her stele contains symbols of that ancient Egyptian deity. She may have been Djer's daughter and was probably Djet's senior royal wife. The former meant that she would have been the great-granddaughter of unified Egypt's first pharaoh, Narmer. She was also the mother of Den, her successor.\n\nMerneith is linked with the kings Djer, Djet and Den in a variety of seal impressions and inscribed bowls. Merneith may have been the daughter of Djer, but there is no conclusive evidence. As the mother of Den, it is likely that Merneith was the wife of Djet. No information about the identity of her mother has been found.\n\nA clay seal found in the tomb of her son, Den, was engraved with \"King's Mother, Merneith\". It also is known that Den’s father was Djet, making it likely that Merneith was Djet’s royal wife.\n\nMerneith is believed to have become ruler upon the death of Djet. The title she held, however, is debated. It is possible that her son Den was too young to rule when Djet died, so she may have ruled as regent until Den was old enough to be the king in his own right. Before her, Neithhotep is believed to have ruled in the same way after her husband King Narmer died, as Narmer's son was too young to rule. Her name was written on a Naqada seal inside a serekh, which was the way the kings' names were written. This would mean Merneith may have actually been the second female in Egypt's first dynasty to have ruled as pharaoh.\n\nThe strongest evidence that Merneith was a ruler of Egypt is her tomb. This tomb in Abydos (Tomb Y) is unique among the otherwise exclusively male tombs. Merneith was buried close to Djet and Den. Her tomb is of the same scale as the tombs of the kings of that period. Two grave stelae bearing her name were discovered near her tomb. Merneith's name is not included in the king lists from the New Kingdom. A seal containing a list of pharaohs of the first dynasty was found in the tomb of Qa'a, the third known pharaoh after Den, her son. However, this list does not mention the reign of Merneith.\n\nA few other pieces of evidence exist elsewhere about Merneith:\n\nAt Abydos, the tomb belonging to Merneith was found in an area associated with other pharaohs of the first dynasty, Umm el-Qa'ab. Two stelae made of stone, identifying the tomb as hers, were found at the site.\n\nIn 1900 Flinders Petrie discovered Merneith’s tomb and, because of its nature, believed it belonged to a previously unknown pharaoh. The tomb was excavated and was shown to contain a large underground chamber, lined with mud bricks, which was surrounded by rows of small satellite burials, with at least 40 subsidiary graves for servants.\n\nThe servants were thought to assist the ruler in the afterlife. The burial of servants with a ruler was a consistent practice in the tombs of the early first dynasty pharaohs. Large numbers of sacrificial assets were buried in her tomb complex as well, which is another honor afforded to pharaohs that provided the ruler with powerful animals for eternal life. This first dynasty burial complex was very important in the Egyptian religious tradition and its importance grew as the culture endured.\n\nInside her tomb archaeologists discovered a solar boat that would allow her to travel with the sun deity in the afterlife.\n\nAbydos was the site of many ancient temples, including Umm el-Qa'ab, the royal necropolis, where early pharaohs were entombed. These tombs began to be seen as extremely significant burials and in later times it became desirable to be buried in the area, leading to the growth of the town's importance as a cult site.\n\nAt Saqqara, Merneith's tomb exhibits features that possibly preview the builders of the Third Dynasty. Concealed within the normal rectangular palace façade mastaba of Merneith's tomb at Saqqara is the base of a stepped structure, a juxtaposition of two different methods of building. It is perhaps indicative of the fusion of northern and southern styles that was to lead, ultimately, to the Step Pyramid of Djoser, or influenced the design of the Third Dynasty structure.\n"}
{"id": "2119546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119546", "title": "Orani, Bataan", "text": "Orani, Bataan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nOrani is located north-west of Manila and accessible via the Bataan Provincial Expressway, off Exit 20. It is bounded on the north by Hermosa, south by Samal, west by Dinalupihan and east by the Manila Bay. It has a total land area of covering 29 barangays. About are used for agriculture, are forestland, are forest reservation and are reserved for the National Park. The rest are classified as wetland.\n\nPalay, coffee, vegetables, peanut, citrus trees and fruit trees are the major produce. Cutflowers like aster, chrysanthemum and gerbera are locally cultivated while bamboo and jungle vines can be gathered from Orani's forestlands. Aquamarine resources like milkfish, tilapia, prawn, crabs, mussels and oysters are caught in Orani's fishing grounds and fishponds.\n\nOrani is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Bataan. \n\nOrani is politically subdivided into 29 barangays.\n\nIn the , Orani had a population of . The population density was .\n\nPursuant to the Local government in the Philippines\", the political seat of the municipal government is located at the Municipal Hall. In the History of the Philippines (1521–1898), the \"Gobernadorcillo\" was the Chief Executive who held office in the \"Presidencia\". During the American rule (1898–1946) (History of the Philippines (1898-1946)), the elected Mayor and local officials, including the appointed ones held office at the Municipal Hall. The legislative and executive departments perform their functions in the Sangguniang Bayan (Session Hall) and Municipal Trial Court, respectively, and are located in the Town Hall.\n\nOrani, Bataan's incumbent elected officials are - Mayor Efren Dominic E. Pascual, Jr. and Vice Mayor Emmanuel Bati Roman., including 8 Councilors or Sanguniang Bayan Members: Maria Abba Sicat, Bonifacio Cruz, Mayfair Bongco Sibug,Francis Sevilla Dela Torre,Lyndon Pascual, John Paul Apostol,Jun Anthony Reyes, June Flores. They hold office at the second floor of the Town Hall, particularly the Office of the Mayor and Sangguniang Bayan Session Hall, respectively.\n\nThe 2nd Municipal Circuit Trial Court of Orani-Samal, MCTC Judge Ma. Cristina J. Mendoza-Pizzaro holds office in her sala located at the second floor of the MTC building at the back of the Town hall.\n\nThe municipality passed an ordinance that protects its people against discrimination based on disability, age, civil status, health status, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, and expression in January 2019 - becoming the first Bataan local government unit to do so.\n\n\n\n\n\nOrani's attractions, events and historical landmarks include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119547", "title": "Orion, Bataan", "text": "Orion, Bataan\n\n', officially the ' (formerly Udyong), (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nOn January 29, 2019, a massive fire burned down over 900 houses in Sitio Depensa, Barangay Kapunitan, killing 1 person, injuring 50 persons, and affecting 1,018 families, or 6,131 individuals. The blaze was attributed to children who carelessly played with matches and afterwards mistakenly tried to douse the flames with gasoline. The fire was able to spread quickly since the sitio consisted mostly of bamboo houses, most of which stored gasoline for fishing boats.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Bataan.\n\nOrion is politically subdivided into 23 barangays.\n\nIn the , Orion had a population of . The population density was .\n\n\nOrion celebrates the feast of Saint Michael (Apo Ige) every 8th day of May (feast now also called Bakawan Festival), when \"balikbayan\"s come to join in the festivities. Majority of its residents are OFWs in the United States, Japan, Europe, Australia, Canada and the Middle East.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119548", "title": "Pilar, Bataan", "text": "Pilar, Bataan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe Bataan Government Center and the historic Mount Samat National Shrine (\"Dambana ng Kagitingan\") are both situated within the municipality in Barangays Diwa and Ala-uli, respectively.\n\nOne of the oldest towns of Bataan, Pilar was previously part of Pampanga. Spaniards in the galleon landed in a \"sitio\" of Balanga and were greeted by the natives. The place was named in the honor of the image of the Our Lady of the Pillar, hence the town was called \"Pilar\".\n\nPilar borders Balanga (the provincial capital) to the north, Orion to the south, Morong to the west, and Manila Bay to the east.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Bataan.\n\nPilar is politically subdivided into 19 barangays.\n\nIn the , Pilar had a population of . The population density was .\nPursuant to the Local Government Code of the Philippines\", the political seat of the municipal government is located at the Municipal Hall. In the Spanish period, the \"Gobernadorcillo\" was the Chief Executive who held office in the \"Presidencia\". During the American rule (1898–1946), the elected Mayor and local officials, including the appointed ones held office at the Municipal Hall. The legislative and executive departments perform their functions in the Sangguniang Bayan (Session Hall) and Municipal Trial Court, respectively, and are located in the Town Hall.\n\nPilar, Bataan's elected officials are Mayor Alice D. Pizarro (National Unity) and Vice Mayor Marino Caguimbal (National Unity).\n\nThe eight Sangguniang Bayan Members led by the Vice Mayor hold office at the Pilar Sangguniang Bayan Session Hall.\n\nLandmarks and festivals of Pilar include:\n\n\nThe 1801 Our Lady of the Pillar Parish Church (Nuestra Señora del Pilar Parish Church, belongs to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Balanga (\"Dioecesis Balangensis\") Suffragan of San Fernando, Pampanga.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119551", "title": "Samal, Bataan", "text": "Samal, Bataan\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSamal is situated in the north-eastern portion of Bataan, away from Manila. It has a total land area of .\n\nSamal originated from \"samel\", a covering attached to a banca to protect the passengers from the sun and rain, made of nipa leaves and woven together.\n\nSaint Catherine of Sienna became the patron of Samal, which was founded as a municipality on April 20, 1641.\n\n\"Sea gypsies\" of Mindanao settlers (\"Badjaos\" who resided for many years in Maubac, Lambayung, Tanjung, Pata, Tapul, Lugus, Bangos, Pagasinan, Parang, Maimbung, Karugdung and Talipaw, Mindanao) migrated to Luzon in the early 14th century and settled in Bataan. In Samal, they propagated the pearl and capiz culture.\n\nSamal was the second town founded by the Dominican friars in Bataan and is composed of four barrios: Calaguiman, Santa Lucia, Poblacion and Lalawigan.\n\nSamal borders Abucay to the south, Orani to the north and northwest, Morong to the west, and Manila Bay to the east.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Bataan.\n\nSamal is politically subdivided into 14 barangays.\n\nIn the , Samal had a population of . The population density was .\n\nPursuant to the Local government in the Philippines\", the political seat of the municipal government is located at the Municipal Hall. In the History of the Philippines (1521–1898), the \"Gobernadorcillo\" was the Chief Executive who held office in the \"Presidencia\". During the American rule (1898–1946) (History of the Philippines (1898-1946)), the elected Mayor and local officials, including the appointed ones held office at the Municipal Hall. The legislative and executive departments perform their functions in the Sangguniang Bayan (Session Hall) and Municipal Trial Court, respectively, and are located in the Town Hall.\n\nSamal's incumbent elected officials are - Mayor Mayor Generosa \"Gene\" Malibiran Dela Fuente (Liberal) and Vice Mayor Emmanuel R. Cortez (Liberal).\n\nThe Sangguniang Bayan Members are: Aida De Guia Macalinao, Madell Tagorio Bathan, Amelia Yabut Dela Rosa, Roman, Jr. Estrella Lazarte, Eduardo Alipio De Castro, Ricky Bugay Santos, John Samson Mateo and Eduardo Bugay De Leon. They hold office at the second floor of the Town Hall, particularly the Office of the Mayor and Sangguniang Bayan Session Hall, respectively.\n\nThe 2nd Municipal Circuit Trial Court of Orani-Samal MCTC Judge Ma. Cristina J. Mendoza-Pizzaro holds office in her sala located at the second floor of the MTC building at the back of the Orani Town hall.\n\nComposed largely of uplands and hills with some lowlands and plains, Samal's main produce are \"palay\", corn, vegetable, fruits rootcrops, coffee and cutflowers, including livestock, poultry and aquatic resources such as shellfish, crabs, prawns, shrimps and different species of fish.\n\nJoaquin Ma. Joson of Bataan established the first ice plant. Wooden shoe (\"bakya\") making, and pulp mills (Bataan Pulp and Paper Mills, Inc. in the scenic slope of Mount Natib) are some of the industries of the natives. It also manufactures banana chips and arrow root flour through native processes, then made into cookies called \"araro\" as \"pasalubong\". Samal is also rich is marine aquatic resources and highly productive farmlands.\n\nGarments manufacturing in Samal is engaged in by five (5) firms already engaged in exports.\n\nIn the Town Hall of Samal and along the streets, Capiz shells are displayed to show that the town residents manufacture this commodity.\n\nSamal's attractions, events and historical landmarks include:\n\n\nThe 1596 Parish Church of Saint Catherine of Siena belongs to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Balanga (\"Dioecesis Balangensis\" - Suffragan of San Fernando, Pampanga.\n\nThe Parish has a Catholic population of 11,581, under Titular of St. Catherine of Siena, with Feast day on April 30. Its former Parish Priest is Monsignor Edilfredo Cruz of the Vicariate of St. Dominic de Guzman. As of June 2011, Fr. Antonio David Bernaldo was assigned as new Parish Priest of the church.\n\nThe Dominicans in 1596 directed the spirituality of Samal. Attacked by Dutch invaders in April 1647, the local garrison of Pampanga under Alejo Aguas ousted the Dutch forces. Rev. Jeromino Belen, O.P. rebuilt the ruined church and the convent. In 1896 the Katipuneros burned the church and convent which were rebuilt by Rev. Justo Quesada in 1903.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119554", "title": "March ör Die", "text": "March ör Die\n\nMarch ör Die is the tenth studio album by the band Motörhead, released 14 August 1992, on the WTG/Epic label, their second and last with them. The album features guest appearances by Ozzy Osbourne, Guns N' Roses guitarist Slash, and veteran drummer Tommy Aldridge. Aldridge stepped in after longtime member Phil Taylor was fired early in the recording process.\n\nAfter years of lackluster sales and feuds with record labels in the late 1980s, Motörhead had enjoyed an incredible turnaround by 1992. After the critical success of \"1916\", which was nominated for a Grammy, Motörhead secured a second album deal with Sony. In addition, vocalist and bassist Lemmy Kilmister had co-written four songs for Ozzy Osbourne's 1991 blockbuster album \"No More Tears\" at the invitation of Ozzy's wife and manager Sharon Osbourne, including \"I Don't Want to Change the World',\" \"Desire,\" \"Hellraiser,\" and the hit single \"Mama, I'm Coming Home,\" generating much needed income. In his autobiography \"White Line Fever\", Lemmy recalls:\nThe band reunited with producer Pete Solley, who produced their 1991 Grammy-nominated album \"1916\", to record \"March or Die\". Early in the recording, drummer Phil Taylor parted ways with Motörhead for a second time as his abilities and commitment came into question. Taylor had quit the band in 1984 to work on a new project with guitarist Brian Robertson but rejoined in 1987. In Joel McIver's Motörhead biography \"Overkill: The Untold Story of Motörhead\", guitarist Phil Campbell discusses Taylor's second departure:\n\nIn the same book, Lemmy – while maintaining that Taylor's skills had deteriorated – admitted:\n\nFollowing Taylor's sudden departure in the midst of recording an album, the band scrambled to find a replacement. Subsequently, \"March or Die\" features three drummers: Taylor, Tommy Aldridge, and Mikkey Dee, who would later join the band as a permanent member. Another drummer, Garry Bowler (a.k.a. Magpie), worked on the drum track for the demo of \"Stand\" during a 1991 session in London with Würzel and Campbell. In the documentary \"The Guts and the Glory\", Dee – who had earlier been asked to join Motörhead before he elected to join Dokken instead – spoke about replacing the longtime Motörhead member Taylor: \nOzzy Osbourne duets with Lemmy on the track \"I Ain't No Nice Guy,\" which also features Slash from Guns N' Roses on lead guitar. Slash also performs on the track \"You Better Run\". Considering that both Osbourne and Guns N' Roses were enjoying immense popularity at the time, \"I Ain't No Nice Guy\" seemed poised to become a major radio hit, but according to Lemmy's memoir Sony tried to suppress the single because it was utilizing WTG Records as a tax write-off:\nThe album includes a cover of the 1977 Ted Nugent classic \"Cat Scratch Fever.\" The track \"Hellraiser\", earlier recorded and released by Ozzy Osbourne for his 1991 album \"No More Tears\", appeared in the 1992 movie \"Hellraiser III: Hell on Earth\". The band re-recorded \"You Better Run\" in 2004 as \"You Better Swim\" for the \"SpongeBob SquarePants Movie\".\n\nThe \"March or Die\" recording sessions took place in Los Angeles and coincided with the eruption of the Rodney King riots in the city. The studio where the band was recording lay in the path of the violence. Lemmy later recalled to \"Classic Rock Revisited\":\n\nReviews for \"March ör Die\" were mixed. The AllMusic review states: \nPer the \"March ör Die\" liner notes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119560", "title": "Threadfin rainbowfish", "text": "Threadfin rainbowfish\n\nThe threadfin rainbowfish or featherfin rainbowfish (\"Iriatherina werneri\") is a rainbowfish, the only species in the genus Iriatherina. It is characterized by long beautiful fins, and is among the most attractive of the rainbowfishes.\n\nIt is native to freshwater swamps and demersal or thickly vegetated areas of flowing waters, in tropical northern Australia and New Guinea.\n\nIt grows up to in length, but this does not include the Threadfin's long tail. Sexing is easy by examining fins: males have larger, gaudier finnage than females. Males also have more intense colours. When reproduction takes place eggs are scattered among the leaves of submerged vegetation, and hatch after7-10 days.\n\nThe threadfin rainbowfish was described by Herman Meinkin in 1974 from types collected in Merauke, Irian Jaya, Indonesia. Meinken honoured the German aquarium fish trader Arthur Werner, who collected the type, in the specific name. The generic name is a combination of \"Iri\" referring to Irian Jaya and \"atherina\", referring to the silverside genus \"Atherina\" as they were thought to be in the same family at the time of naming. Genetic studies have appeared to indicate that there may be significant genetic divergence between the different populations of threadfin rainbowfish that occur parapatrically in northern Queensland and in the Northern Territory which would mean these populations were different species. It is likely that the New Guinea populations will be shown to be third species.\n\nIn aquaria they are usually peaceful, they live preferably in groups of six or more. Because of their long fins they should obviously be kept in a tank without fin-nippers. They breed best in tanks without other species. The male courts the female by posturing in front of her repeatedly quickly raising then lowering the forward dorsal fin. The recommended male-to-female ratio is about 1:3, due to polygamous behavior of dominant male.\n\nThreadfin rainbowfish do well in aquariums of , however is preferred. They are best housed in a \"species only\" tank; meaning that the tank is reserved for the Threadfins alone. Because of their tiny mouths, they can be difficult to feed. They do well with live foods, such as baby brine shrimp, and the micrometre larval diets.\n\nThey prefer water that is soft to moderately hard, slightly acidic (pH 6.0–7.0), and with a temperature of .\n"}
{"id": "2119567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119567", "title": "Truman Reservoir", "text": "Truman Reservoir\n\nThe Harry S. Truman Reservoir (also known as \"Truman Lake\") is located in the state of Missouri, United States. It is located between Clinton and Warsaw, on the Osage River and extends south to Osceola. The dam is located in Benton County, but the reservoir also extends into parts of Henry, St. Clair, and Hickory counties.\n\nThe U.S. Army Corps of Engineers built and manages the lake and dam. It is used primarily for flood control. It is also used for power generation, recreation, and wildlife management.\n\nOriginally named \"Kaysinger Bluff Dam and Reservoir\" in 1954, when construction was authorized, construction began in August 1964. It was renamed the \"Harry S. Truman Dam and Reservoir\", in honor of the former president from Missouri, by Congress in 1970. Construction was completed in 1979. The Kaysinger name refers to the bluff immediately north next to where the dam was eventually constructed. The bluff or cliff, a popular landmark even before the dam, overlooked the confluence of the South Grand River, Tebo Creek and the Osage River. The visitor center now sits on the bluff.\n\nCompleting the Truman Project took many years of planning, land acquisition, constructing new bridges and demolishing old ones. Several roads, towns, and cemeteries had to be relocated. The first construction project completed on the project was relocating Route 13 so it would be above maximum pool level.\n\nThe creation of the lake forced the closure of the Frisco Railroad's \"Highline\". Rising water levels severed the railroad tracks near Osceola and Deepwater and railroad officials declined to spend millions of dollars to reroute the lightly used tracks. The Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad, however, did relocate its main line between La Due and Clinton; the project included five miles of new track and a causeway/bridge combination over the lake.\n\nThe Harry S. Truman Regional Visitor Center contains exhibits about the cultural and natural history of Truman Lake, environmental activities, the construction of the dam, the operation of the powerhouse, and the US Army Corps of Engineers. A 67-seat theater shows wildlife, history and water safety videos by request. The observation deck offers views of Truman Lake and part of the Lake of the Ozarks, as well as the dam.\n\nHarry S. Truman State Park is located in Benton County, Missouri on a peninsula that juts out into the reservoir.\n\nThe south-west portion of the lake makes up part of the circumference of the Weaubleau-Osceola structure, a 330-335 million year old impact crater.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119574", "title": "North Texas Church of Freethought", "text": "North Texas Church of Freethought\n\nThe North Texas Church of Freethought (NTCOF) was founded by Tim Gorski and Mike and Marilyn Sullivan in 1994 as perhaps the first explicitly non-theistic and non-supernaturalistic religious organization in the USA. Its aim has been to serve the psychosocial needs of atheists, agnostics, and other non-religious people in the Dallas-Fort Worth area and to promote a rational and humanistic view of what have been traditionally \"religious\" issues and questions. The first service was held at what was then the Wilson World hotel in Irving, Texas; currently they are held at the Hawthorn Suites by Wyndham Hotel DFW Airport North in Irving, Texas. Free childcare and Sunday School classes have been an integral part of the NTCOF's mission.\n\nSince March 2000 the Houston Church of Freethought has pursued the same goals and provided the same services in that city. A Northern California Church of Freethought was briefly in existence around 1999, but has since disbanded.\n\nOn May 18, 2006, the Texas State Comptroller's office granted tax-exempt status to the NTCOF as a result of actions taken by Americans United for Separation of Church and State, which had previously secured tax-exempt status for the Ethical Society of Austin. This status had been previously denied to the NTCOF and other non-traditional churches because they did not profess \"a belief in God, or gods, or a higher power.\"\n\nBecause the NTCOF characterizes itself as a church, it has been the subject of mixed opinion by atheist groups; for example, an attempted donation to American Atheists was once rejected, and Paul Kurtz, founder of the Council for Secular Humanism, discouraged the NTCOF founders when they approached him with their idea. However, the Atheist Alliance International in 2000 published a press release defending the NTCOF against perceived media bias from a Dallas-area television news story. The NTCOF takes the position that churches are simply units of social organization, intermediate between those of the family and the larger community, that are based on deeply felt shared beliefs concerning \"matters of ultimate concern.\" NTCOF Officiants have conducted marriages, naming ceremonies, and funerals/remembrances.\n\nThe NTCOF filed an amicus curiae brief in 2004 for Elk Grove Unified School District v. Newdow, supporting Michael Newdow's argument. Dr. Newdow has also founded a secular church, the First Atheist Church of True Science (FACTS).\n\n"}
{"id": "2119576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119576", "title": "Erythrosine", "text": "Erythrosine\n\nErythrosine, also known as Red No. 3, is an organoiodine compound, specifically a derivative of fluorone. It is a pink dye which is primarily used for food coloring. It is the disodium salt of 2,4,5,7-tetraiodofluorescein. Its maximum absorbance is at 530 nm in an aqueous solution, and it is subject to photodegradation.\n\nIt is used as a:\n\n\nErythrosine is commonly used in sweets such as some candies and popsicles, and even more widely used in cake-decorating gels. It is also used to color pistachio shells. As a food additive, it has the E number E127.\n\nAs a result of efforts begun in the 1970s, in 1990 the U.S. FDA had instituted a partial ban on erythrosine, citing research that high doses have been found to cause cancer in rats. A 1990 study concluded that \"chronic erythrosine ingestion may promote thyroid tumor formation in rats via chronic stimulation of the thyroid by TSH.\" with 4% of total daily dietary intake consisting of erythrosine B. A series of toxicology tests combined with a review of other reported studies concluded that erythrosine is non-genotoxic and any increase in tumors is caused by a non-genotoxic mechanism.\n\nIn June 2008, the Center for Science in the Public Interest (CSPI) petitioned the FDA for a complete ban on erythrosine in the United States, but the FDA has not taken any further action.\n\nWhile erythrosine is commonly used in many countries of the world, it is less commonly used in the United States (the second least used after Fast Green FCF) because Allura Red AC (Red #40) is generally used instead. However, Allura Red AC is banned in many European countries because it is an azo dye. Erythrosine can be used in colored food and ingested drugs in the USA without any restriction, however, its use is banned in cosmetics and external drugs. The lake variant is also banned from use in the United States.\n\nErythrosine B; Erythrosin B; Acid Red 51; C.I. 45430; FD & C Red No.3; E127;\n2',4',5',7'-Tetraiodo-3',6'-dihydroxy-spiro[3H-isobenzofuran-1,9'-xanthen]-3-one disodium salt; Tetraiodofluorescein Sodium Salt; Calcoid Erythrosine N; 2,4,5,7-Tetraiodo-3,6-dihydroxyxanthene-9-spiro-1'-3H-isobenzofuran-3'-one disodium salt; 2',4',5',7'-Tetraiodofluorescein, disodium salt; C.I.Food Red 14; Aizen Erythrosine; Tetraiodifluorescein, disodium salt; Spiro[isobenzofuran- 1(3H),9'-[9H]xanthen]-3-one, 3',6'-dihydroxy-2',4',5',7'-tetraiodo-, disodium salt.\n\nIt is listed under the following number systems:\n\n"}
{"id": "2119583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119583", "title": "Homosapien (album)", "text": "Homosapien (album)\n\nHomosapien is the 1981 the second solo album by British musician Pete Shelley, following his work with the group Buzzcocks and the experimental instrumental album \"Sky Yen\" recorded in 1974 and eventually released in 1980. \"Homosapien\" saw a marked departure from the punk stylings of Buzzcocks' records, being heavily influenced by the programmed synthesizer sounds and drum machines of synthpop and featuring Shelly on acoustic guitar. The title track was released as a UK single and was banned by the BBC due to explicit homosexual references, but was nevertheless a hit in several other countries.\n\nThe album grew out of rehearsals for the fourth Buzzcocks' album with producer Martin Rushent. After a troubled 1980 the group had convened at Manchester's Pluto Studios early in 1981 to start work on a new Buzzcocks album. However, the sessions went badly, exacerbated by EMI's refusal to pay an advance for the recordings, which put further strain on Buzzcocks' already difficult financial situation. Seeing the tensions within the band and sensing that Shelley was in need of a break, Rushent halted the sessions on 9 February and suggested to Shelley that the two of them should decamp to Rushent's newly built Genetic Sound studio at his home in Streatley, Berkshire to work on new material. Shelley and Rushent began recording tracks on 13 February 1981, the majority of which dated back to 1973–75, before Shelley had formed Buzzcocks. Rushent had equipped his new studio with the latest electronic equipment, and in the process of recording Shelley and Rushent grew enormously fond of the sound they had created in the studio, which featured an interesting blend of drum machines, synthesizers and sequencers coupled with guitars. Shelley, weary of Buzzcocks' financial state, decided to leave the band after Island Records' Andrew Lauder offered him a solo record deal based on the demos. Shelley told the \"NME\" in an interview in November 1981, \"We came here [to Genetic Sound] in February to record demos but as we started to do them they sounded more and more finished, so we nudged them in that direction and within a few months we'd come up with three finished tracks. Just me and Martin in the studio with all the machines.\" According to Shelley the album was recorded over \"a six or seven month period\".\n\nReleased at the start of the home computer boom, the album cover featured Shelley in a stylised 'office' leaning on a Commodore PET computer.\n\nAs was typical in the era, \"Homosapien\" had a different track listing in the United States, with three songs being excised and three single B-sides being added in their place. The album was released in the US first, due to contractual issues in the UK: originally scheduled for release first on 28 August and then again on 16 November 1981, \"Homosapien\" finally received a UK release on 15 January 1982.\n\nTwo singles were released ahead of the album, the title track in September 1981 and \"I Don't Know What It Is\" in November 1981. The \"Homosapien\" single was reissued in 1982 with a different B-side. A limited edition of \"I Don't Know What It Is\" contained a free second 7\" single, featuring \"In Love with Somebody Else\" on the A-side and \"Maxine\" on the B-side.\n\nIn the mid 1980s Homosapien was originally issued on compact disc by Arista Records. In 1997, Razor & Tie reissued the US version on CD with five bonus tracks taken from Shelley's follow-up album \"XL1\". The original UK version was reissued on CD by Grapevine Records in 1994, and again in a remastered version in 2006 by Western Songs Ltd: both reissues include all the songs from the US version as bonus tracks, as well as two other B-side \"dub\" mixes.\n\nIn March 1982 issue 9 of short-lived magazine \"New Sounds, New Styles\" included a free 7\" yellow flexidisc featuring an extended version of \"Qu'est-Ce Que C'est Que Ça\", subtitled the \"nsnS Dub Mix\" (the other side of the single was \"Amor\" (nsnS Mix) by Animal Magnet). Halfway through the album version, an obvious edit was made into a dubbed version of the track. This version of the song has never been re-released.\n\nCritical reaction to the album at the time was mixed, with some reviewers disappointed by Shelley's move away from the familiar guitar sounds to the record's emphasis on synthesizers, and the lightweight nature of the songs. \"NME\" said that \"\"Homosapien\" is the first chance to examine the solo Shelley over the full range of interests and emotions but it is a disjointed album... the problem is the bulk of the raw material is too ineffectual, often embarrassing and half realised, to give the songs a focal point which binds, injects or drives them with the necessary conviction or resolution... It lacks energy, urgency and desperation, something to grab on to: the power to wake you or make you or shake you up. A shame because Shelley still has a lot to give.\" \"Melody Maker\" was more positive, believing that by \"leaving behind massed guitars and thunderous drums, Shelley and Rushent have evolved a richer and more varied dictionary of sounds... If it doesn't always convince, it's persuasive enough to warrant long-term investment.\"\n\nModern reviews have been more favourable towards the album, and consider it to be Shelley's best solo effort. AllMusic said, \"Despite the utterly ridiculous [drum machine] sound, it's the one Shelley solo effort worth investigating. Unlike \"XL1\" and \"Heaven and the Sea\", the wry, lovelorn pop songwriting inspiration is still with him. But more importantly, this is the only attempt by Shelley to retain the compressed, tight, hard production and vocals of his band work, despite the new genre and the predominance of a 12-string acoustic in favor of the old buzzsaw.\" \"Q\" felt that apart from the title song, \"too many tracks... sound like Depeche Mode offcuts\".\n\nAll tracks written and composed by Pete Shelley.\n\n\n\n\n\nAdditional personnel:\nTechnical:\n"}
{"id": "2119598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119598", "title": "Edna Hicks", "text": "Edna Hicks\n\nEdna Hicks (October 14, 1891 or 1895 – August 16, 1925) was an American blues singer and musician. Her recorded songs include \"Hard Luck Blues\" and \"Poor Me Blues\". She also recorded \"Down Hearted Blues\", and \"Gulf Coast Blues\" on the Brunswick label in 1923.\n\nShe was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. Although most sources state that her birth name was Edna Landreaux, the daughter of Victor Landreaux and Rena Moore, researchers Bob Eagle and Eric LeBlanc suggest that her birth name was Lucille Landry, the daughter of Victor Landry and Rosa Moore. She was the half-sister of Lizzie Miles.\n\nShe is believed to have moved north in her mid-teens. In 1910 she is listed as working as a nurse and still living at home, but on 10 June 1912, as Edna Landry, she married vaudeville performer and touring company manager Will Benbow, and performed in his shows, but they separated after a few years.\n\nShe was popular in black vaudeville in the American Midwest in the late 1910s and 1920s, appeared often in Chicago and Cincinnati, and made recordings for seven different record labels in 1923 and 1924: Victor, Vocalion, Columbia, Gennett, Brunswick, Ajax, and Paramount. Her most frequent accompanist was Fletcher Henderson; some of her recordings featured accompaniment by Porter Grainger and Lemuel Fowler. In 1916, she appeared was in a show called \"Follow Me\" at Casino Theater in New York City. She also appeared in Billy King's musical comedy \"Over the Top\", and the musical comedies \"The New American\", \"A Trip Around the World\", and \"A Derby Day in Dixie\", all in The Lafayette Theater in New York City.\n\nIn August 1925, while assisting her husband in filling their automobile's gasoline tank, she was burned after splashed gasoline was ignited by a candle she was holding. She died in a Chicago hospital two days later, on August 16. She is buried at Holy Sepulchre Cemetery in Worth, Illinois.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119608", "title": "Maryland Route 185", "text": "Maryland Route 185\n\nMaryland Route 185 (MD 185) is a state highway in the U.S. state of Maryland. Known as Connecticut Avenue, the state highway runs from Chevy Chase Circle at the Washington, D.C. border north to MD 97 in Aspen Hill. MD 185 serves as a major north-south commuter route in southern Montgomery County, connecting the District of Columbia with the residential suburbs of Chevy Chase, Kensington, and Wheaton.\n\nMD 185's history can be divided into two segments. The portion south of Kensington was included in the state highway system by 1927 as an extension of Connecticut Avenue out of the District of Columbia and was the westernmost stretch of MD 193. The Chevy Chase to Kensington stretch was expanded to a divided highway in the 1950s. The segment of MD 185 between Kensington and Aspen Hill was built as a divided highway on a new alignment in the 1960s and designated MD 185. The MD 185 designation was extended south of Kensington, replacing MD 193, in the 1970s. Construction projects in the 1980s and early 1990s completed MD 185 as a six-lane highway.\n\nMD 185 begins at Chevy Chase Circle on the border of Washington, D.C. Connecticut Avenue continues south into the Chevy Chase neighborhood of the District of Columbia on the south side of the circle, while Western Avenue intersects the east and west sides of the circle. MD 185 heads north as a six-lane divided highway through an affluent residential area in Chevy Chase Village. After passing Chevy Chase Country Club to the west, the state highway intersects MD 191 (Bradley Lane) and leaves Chevy Chase Village. MD 185 continues due north, passing the headquarters of 4-H and intersecting MD 410 (East–West Highway). After crossing MD 410, the state highway passes Columbia Country Club. MD 185 enters a commercial area where it crosses the Capital Crescent Trail at-grade and intersects Manor Road. Manor Road fills the missing movements at the following five-way intersection with Jones Bridge Road and Kensington Parkway, where left turns are prohibited from both directions of MD 185 and westbound Jones Bridge Road.\n\nAfter crossing Jones Bridge Road, MD 185 continues north through residential areas and intersects Interstate 495 (Capital Beltway) at a partial cloverleaf interchange. Immediately after the interchange, the state highway crosses Rock Creek and intersects Beach Drive within Rock Creek Park. MD 185 leaves the valley of Rock Creek and enters the town of Chevy Chase View. Upon entering Kensington and the Kensington Historic District, the state highway veers to the northwest and back to the north ahead of the intersection with MD 547 (Knowles Avenue), where the highway enters a commercial area. After crossing CSX's Metropolitan Subdivision and MARC's Brunswick Line, MD 185 crosses MD 192 (Plyers Mill Road). As the road turns northeast, the state highway meets MD 193 (University Boulevard). While MD 193 continues northeast toward Wheaton, MD 185 veers left to continue due north. The next intersection, Perry Avenue, is used to complete the movements between MD 185 north and MD 193 east.\nAfter leaving the town limits of Kensington, MD 185 becomes a six-lane controlled access divided highway passing between residential subdivisions. After crossing a tributary of Rock Creek, the state highway intersects MD 586 at an acute intersection. MD 185 then becomes lined with service roads ahead of and after the intersection with Randolph Road. Beyond Weller Road, the state highway crosses Turkey Branch and then a bridge over Matthew Henson State Park. MD 185 then enters Aspen Hill and intersects Aspen Hill Road within a commercial area. The state highway meets its northern terminus at MD 97 (Georgia Avenue). Connecticut Avenue continues as a county-maintained highway north across Bel Pre Road into Rossmoor, home of the Leisure World retirement community.\n\nMD 185 is a part of the National Highway System as a principal arterial for its entire length.\n\nMD 185 was constructed and designated on two different segments of the current state highway at different times. The first section to be built was between Chevy Chase and Kensington as an extension of Connecticut Avenue into Montgomery County, which was designated MD 193. The section between Bradley Lane and Kensington was paved by 1927. The segment south of Bradley Lane was paved as a county road by 1930. By 1936, the segment of Connecticut Avenue south of Bradley Lane had come under state control. The grade crossing of the railroad tracks in Kensington was eliminated by the construction of a bypass and bridge in 1936 as well. The section of MD 193 south of MD 410 was marked as US 240 Alternate by 1946, a designation it retained until the 1960s. The segment from the D.C. line to north of MD 410 in Chevy Chase was expanded to a multi-lane divided highway in 1950. The remainder of the route to Kensington was expanded to a divided highway between 1957 and 1960.\n\nThe section of highway between Kensington and Aspen Hill was built on a new alignment as a four-lane divided highway in stages in the 1960s and given the designation of MD 185. The highway was completed from Kensington to MD 586 in 1963. The remaining section north to Aspen Hill was completed in 1969. Immediately north of the crossing of Turkey Branch is a bridge that was to be MD 185's overpass of the Washington Outer Beltway. Ramp stubs exist next to the bridge for the partial cloverleaf interchange with this cancelled freeway. By 1980, the MD 185 designation was extended south from Kensington south to the D.C. line. The state highway was expanded to six lanes to Beach Drive in 1986 and through Kensington in 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119611", "title": "Pont-Viau, Quebec", "text": "Pont-Viau, Quebec\n\nPont-Viau, Quebec is a district in the southern part of Laval, Quebec, Canada. It was a town before August 6, 1965. It was named after Viau bridge, which links it to Ahuntsic-Cartierville in Montreal, Quebec.\n\nIt is deliminated by the Rivière des Prairies to the south, by Duvernay to the east, by Vimont to the north and by Laval-des-Rapides to the west.\n\nCommission scolaire de Laval operates French-language public schools.\n\nSir Wilfrid Laurier School Board operates English-language public schools. All sections of Laval are zoned to Laval Junior Academy and Laval Senior Academy\n\n"}
{"id": "2119612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119612", "title": "Tanauan, Batangas", "text": "Tanauan, Batangas\n\n', officially the ' () or simply known as City, is a in the province of , Philippines. According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is incorporated as a city under Republic Act No. 9005, signed on February 2, 2001, and ratified on March 10, 2001.\n\nWith the continuous expansion of Metro Manila, the city is now part of Manila's conurbation which reaches Lipa in its southernmost part. The city shares its borders with Calamba, Laguna, to the north, Tagaytay, Cavite, to the northwest, Talisay to the west, Santo Tomas City to the east, and the towns of Balete and Malvar to the south. It borders on Taal Lake to the west. The town is known for the Old Tanauan Church Ruins, the most important archaeological site in the municipality where human remains from the colonial era have been unearthed.\n\nAmong those born in Tanauan City are revolutionary former Prime Minister Apolinario Mabini and former President José P. Laurel.\n\nTanauan (lookout point) was founded by the Augustinians in 1584 on the northwestern bay of Lake Taal, called Tanauan Bay. Lookout towers were associated with 16th and 17th century churches to forewarn of Moro raids. \"Old Tanauan\" (\"Lumang Tanauan\") included such a watch tower and associated \"sapao\" (built-up structures in the water). The 1754 eruption of Taal Volcano forced the town inhabitants to move initially to Sala. Then both towns moved again later that year to Tanauan's current location, in which Sala is now a barrio. \n\nTanaueños have displayed characteristics of personal independence and nationalism since early history. The town is called the cradle of noble heroes due to its contribution to the revolutionary movement of its sons Apolinario Mabini, the brains of Katipunan, and later by the statesman Jose P. Laurel. Also, three Tanaueños served as governors of Batangas, namely: Jose P. Laurel V, Modesto Castillo and Nicolas Gonzales.\n\nRecent events include the assassination of its former mayor, Cesar V. Platon, by NPA rebels on 7 May 2001, as he was running for the governorship of Batangas. This happened a few days before the election.On 2 July 2018, then-incumbent mayor Antonio Halili, noted for public humiliation campaigns against criminals and drug pushers, was assassinated during the flag raising ceremony at the city hall.\n\nThe Congress approved the then Batangas 3rd District Rep. Jose Macario Laurel IV's bill and a Senate counterpart measure on Dec. 19, 2000 the Republic Act No. 9005 known as \"The Charter of the City of Tanauan.\"\n\nOn February 2, 2001 President Gloria Arroyo signed it into law.\n\nOn March 10, 2001, a Saturday, the charter was approved by a referendum in Tanauan that drew 8,890 or 16% of the 55,453 registered voters. Two ballots were either spoiled or blank. The \"yes\" had it over the \"no\" by a landslide, 7,026 to 1,961.\n\nAccording to cityhood advocates, quoted in reports reaching Batangas on Sunday, the turnout, despite being two times better than previous conversion-to-city exercises, was still only 16%.\n\nIt suggested that 84% of Tanaueños were in any of the following states regarding cityhood:\n\nIt is situated south of Manila and north of Batangas City.\n\nTanauan City is politically subdivided into 48 barangays.\n\nA cluster of the six lakeshore barangays of Tanauan City which serves as the tourism district of the city. It is consist of barangays:\n\n\nThere are nine barangays in the urban area of Tanauan City. These are\n\n\nRoman Catholicism is the most dominant and visible religion in Tanauan. St. John the Evangelist is its patron, and its main church is the St. John the Evangelist Parish. La Consolacion College Tanauan (formerly Our Lady of Fatima Academy, 1948), run by the Augustinian Sisters of Our Lady of Consolation, is the first Catholic school in the city. Other Catholic schools include Our Lady of Assumption Montessori School and Daughters of Mary Immaculate School (lay-operated). First Asia Institute is converting from a non-sectarian school to a Catholic (Christian) school.\n\nIglesia ni Cristo, Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormons (The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints), Islam and other religious groups are also present in the city.\n\nTanauan is known as an agricultural trading center of CALABARZON Region. Agri products from CALABARZON and as far as MIMAROPA and Bicol regions are being sent here before it reaches Metro Manila public markets. Aside from being an important agricultural center, Tanauan is also one of the Philippines' major industrial centers nowadays hosting four industrial parks which is home to various multinational companies and tourism facilities.\n\nA 450-hectare industrial park owned by Lopez Group and Sumitomo Corporation located in Tanauan and Santo Tomas, Batangas. FPIP Tanauan is the location of various multinational companies such as Nestlé, Honda, Brother Printers, Canon Philippines, Shimano, B/E Aerospace, Philip Morris-Fortune Tobacco Corporation and many more.\n\nFormerly PhilTown Technology Center located in Barangay Pagaspas which is now owned by First Philippine Holdings of the Lopez Group of Companies. This is home to Uni-President Philippines, the manufacturer of Homi instant noodles and Nooda Crunch.\n\nAn industrial park in the Tanauan-Malvar area. It is the location of Metro Manila Turf Club.\n\nAn industrial park owned by Data Land Corporation. This hosts the precast manufacturing facility of the said company.\n\nA multi-sectoral development by the Torres Group of Companies located at the center of the new Tanauan Central Business District. It is now the location of the new Tanauan City Hall, which was inaugurated last July 23, 2017. In front of the new city hall is the new Tanauan People's Park. Aside from government centers, TCZ will also hosts office towers, condominiums and commercial centers by 2019.\n\n\nJeepneys serve the city and the nearby municipalities and barangays. Tricycles provide transportation on the barangays. Buses connect the city with Manila and Batangas City.\n\nThe Southern Tagalog Arterial Road passes at the central part of the city. The expressway connects the city with the rest of Batangas. Jose P. Laurel Highway connects the city to Calamba and Santo Tomas on the north and with Malvar, Lipa, and Batangas City to the south. Another highway links Tanauan with Talisay and Tagaytay. A service road on both sides of STAR Tollway will connect the northeastern barangays of Tanauan to the southeastern barangays of the city \nAside from the STAR Tollway, national roads like the Jose P. Laurel Highway (Route 4) and Tanauan – Talisay Road (Route 421) serves also the city. The city also maintains roads that connects the rural barangays of the city.\n\nAmong the tertiary educational establishments in Tanauan is the First Asia Institute of Technology and Humanities, La Consolacion College, Christian College of Tanauan, Nova Schola, the STI Academic Center, the DMMC Institute of Health Sciences, and the Tanauan Institute. The Tanauan Institute is the oldest private education institution in the city having been established in 1924. The Sapphire International Aviation Academy which caters to aspiring aircraft pilots is also located within the city at the Barradas Airstrip.\n\nThere are 9 private and 12 public high schools, and 27 private and 44 public elementary schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119614", "title": "John Sylvester John Gardiner", "text": "John Sylvester John Gardiner\n\nJohn Sylvester John Gardiner (1765–1830), aka John S. J. Gardiner, was an American Episcopal priest. He was Rector of Trinity Church, Boston, Massachusetts, president of Boston's Anthology Club, and active in the Boston Athenæum.\n\nGardiner was born in Haverfordwest, to Dr. John Sylvester Gardiner (1731–1793) and Margaret Harries (1740–1786). His father served as Attorney General for the British government in the West Indies, where he spent much of his youth. He was the grandson of Silvester Gardiner.\n\nHe was in educated in Boston and England, where he was a pupil of the famous Dr. Samuel Parr. Following the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War, he went back to England, only to permanently return to the United States in 1783.\n\nGardiner was for 37 years the \"best-known and most influential Episcopal\" clergyman of Boston. Trained for the law, he turned to divinity and for 25 years was rector of Trinity Church, Boston. Despite this conservative bent, he was on very amiable sociable terms with his Unitarian brethren. George Ticknor studied Latin and Greek under Gardiner's tutelage.\n\nHe served as president of Boston's Anthology Club and was active in the Boston Athenæum.\n\nGardiner was married to Mary Howard (1774–1848), who was born in Augusta, Maine and was the daughter of Col. William Howard and Martha Howard. Together, they were the parents of three children:\n\n\nGardiner died in 1830 in Harrowgate, England.\n\nHe was the grandfather, through his son William, of Edward Gardiner (1825–1859), a prominent architect.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119625", "title": "Maltese International Trade Fair Grounds", "text": "Maltese International Trade Fair Grounds\n\nThe Trade Fair Grounds, also known as the Trade Fairs and Exhibition Centre, is a former fairground in Naxxar, Malta. It hosted various exhibitions and fairs throughout the year, but was mostly known for being the venue for the annual Malta Trade Fair. Prior to the construction of the trade fair complex, the area had been part of the gardens of Palazzo Parisio.\n\nThe fairground hosted forty-nine editions of the Malta Trade Fair, from 1958 to 2006. After the ground rent expired, the Malta Trade Fair was moved to the Malta Fairs & Conventions Centre in Ta' Qali in 2007, and has been held there ever since. At this point, plans were made to redevelop the former fairground in Naxxar into a housing project, a local centre and an underground car park. In 2010, the Trade Fair Exhibitors Association took over the lease and applied to host the trade fair at the Naxxar complex again, but the licence was refused, resulting in a legal battle. The Naxxar Local Council opposed any attempts to return the Trade Fair to the former fairground.\n\nIn 2008, the Electoral Commission moved its Vote Counting Complex to the former Trade Fair Grounds, after the original counting hall in Ta' Qali was demolished to make way for the American Embassy. This counting hall was used for most elections between 2008 and 2017, with the exception of the 2011 divorce referendum.\n\nNew plans for redeveloping the site were submitted in 2017, and these include the demolition of the existing buildings and the construction of 490 apartments, of offices, of retail outlets and an underground car park.\n\n\nCoordinates: \n"}
{"id": "2119632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119632", "title": "William Maitland", "text": "William Maitland\n\nWilliam Maitland may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2119652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119652", "title": "Bryher", "text": "Bryher\n\nBryher (, \"place of hills\") is one of the smaller of the inhabited islands of the Isles of Scilly.\n\nThe name of the island is recorded as \"Brayer\" in 1336 and \"Brear\" in 1500.\n\nThe island is a procession of prominent hills all joined to one another by low-lying necks and sandy bars. It would only need sea levels to rise by a few metres for the southern part of Bryher to transform itself into a group of five or six separate islands. As all these hills – Gweal, Timmy's, Watch, Heathy and Samson – are too exposed and windswept to be cultivated and Bryher's ninety residents have to make their lives in a relatively narrow zone between hill and shore. The island has a length of , a maximum width of and an area of , including Shipman Head, which rises to at the northern end of the island. Bryher lies to the west of Tresco, and is separated from that island by the Tresco Channel, once the main anchorage for the islands and now an area where sandflats are exposed at low tide. Off the southern end of Bryher is the uninhabited island of Samson. It is possible to walk between the three islands at the lowest spring tides.\n\nThe settlement at the Pool / Hell Bay Hotel is the westernmost in England. Without the tidal island of Gugh included, St Agnes is marginally smaller than Bryher in either population or area; however if Gugh is included with St Agnes, which is the common interpretation, then Bryher is (again, marginally) the smallest of the populated isles of Scilly in area and population.\nThe centre of Bryher is mainly low-lying with arable fields, pasture and housing and is where most of the population of 84 live. On the west side is the brackish Great Pool overlooked by the Hell Bay Hotel and in the south are sandy beaches, a common feature on the island, Rushy Bay being an example. The island lies within the Isles of Scilly Heritage Coast, is part of the Isles of Scilly Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty and untenanted land is leased by the Duchy of Cornwall to the Isles of Scilly Wildlife Trust which is using ponies and red ruby cattle to graze the overgrown areas as part of the \"Waves of Heath\" project.\n\nThe infamous Hell Bay is on the north-west coast of Bryher, immediately to the south of Shipman Head. This Atlantic-facing cove became a notorious place for shipwrecks in the 18th and 19th centuries, although most ships wrecked on Scilly were wrecked before they could reach Hell Bay.\n\nBryher is one of the five civil parishes of the Isles of Scilly, which are also wards. The civil parish and ward include several uninhabited islands and rocks, including the Norrard Rocks, Gweal, Zantman's Rock and the Crim Rocks (the westernmost place of England). Bryher returns one councillor to the Council of the Isles of Scilly, the same as the other \"off-island\" wards. The civil parish is not functional however, and there is no council or meeting.\n\nAll Saints’ Church (Church of England) is in the centre of the island, close to the east coast, opposite New Grimsby on Tresco. A church was originally built on the site in about 1742, but it was completely rebuilt in 1821-22. The church was renovated in 1860-61, when the tower and porch were added, and the east (chancel) end was further altered in 1897-98. The roof was replaced and raised in 1930. The nave has four modern stained-glass windows by Oriel Hicks (Phoenix Stained Glass).\n\nThe Baptists arrived in Scilly in the early nineteenth century. The Baptist Itinerant Aid Society established Scilly as their first missionary station, with chapels on all the inhabited islands including Bryher. Augustus Smith, ‘Lord Proprietor’ of the Isles of Scilly, fell out with the Baptists and in 1843 ‘caused notice to be served at all the chapels’, so they were closed. However, a new Baptist chapel was built on Bryher in 1874. It continued to be used for nearly a century, before being converted into a private house in 1972.\n\nBryher has two quays: Church Quay, used as the high-water quay, and Bar Quay, used as the low-water quay. The quays are used by Scilly’s inter-island boats, for both passengers and freight.\n\nChurch Quay, as its name suggests, is located close to All Saints' Church, on a small promontory called ‘The Island’, at the north end of Green Bay. There has been a quay on this site since at least the nineteenth century. The quay is shown on the OS Six-inch map published in 1889.\n\nBar Quay, or Anneka’s Quay, located to the north of Church Quay, was originally built in 1990 by volunteers, for the television programme \"Challenge Anneka\". It is known to many islanders as 'Anna Quay'.\n\nThe Duchy of Cornwall is responsible for both quays on Bryher.\n\nThe quays on Bryher (together with quays on St Agnes and St Martins) beneﬁted from a £3.5m Duchy of Cornwall renovation project in 2006-2008 to improve operational safety and reduce maintenance.\n\nFor all off-island quays, except Anneka’s Quay, a common solution was provided: a new quay wall was built from prefabricated concrete block units, which were anchored to the bedrock using post tensioned bars and connected to the existing structure using precast deck planks.\n\nAnneka’s Quay was originally a timber deck structure support on sand filled caissons. The quay was lengthened by approximately 12m by adding two additional concrete filled caissons; the timber deck was replaced by a concrete slab.\n\nOn 2 October 2007, BBC News reported that before the renovation project, it had been 50 years since any major work was done on the off-islands quays.\n\nFive Islands Academy (previously Five Islands School) has its Tresco and Bryher Base, a primary campus in Tresco. Primary pupils commute daily to Tresco. Secondary pupils board at the St Mary's main campus, staying there on weekdays and coming back and forth to their home islands on weekends.\n\nStudents at the sixth-form college level reside and board elsewhere, in mainland Great Britain. Previously the Learning and Skills Council paid for costs of accommodation for sixth-formers.\n\nThere are three Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) on Bryher. The Shipman Head and Shipman Down SSSI was first designated in 1971 and covers over 40 ha of the northern part of the island. Waved maritime heath grows over shallow podzolic soils which are underlain by Hercynian granite. Rare plants include the Red Data Book (RDB) Orange Bird's-foot (\"Ornithopus pinnatus\") and the nationally scarce Hairy Bird's-foot trefoil (\"Lotus subbiflorus\"). Lichens include (\"Lobaria pulmonaria\") and (\"Teleoschistes flavicans\").\n\nOn the west side of the island is Great Pool which is part of the Pool of Bryher and Popplestone Bank SSSI. It is separated from the sea by a storm beach and small dune system, and is the only natural brackish lagoon on Scilly with plants such as Saltmarsh Rush (\"Juncus gerardii\") and Beaked Tasselweed (\"Ruppia maritima\").\n\nCovering of the southern part of the island is the Rushy Bay and Heathy Hill SSSI which has a number of nationally rare plants. An Isles of Scilly speciality is the Dwarf Pansy (\"Viola kitaibeliana\") which grows nowhere else in Great Britain. It is locally abundant on Bryher and thousands can be found in May in short turf and bare sand. Unfortunately a storm in 2008 reduced the numbers of plants seen; there are also small colonies on Tresco and Teän. Orange Bird's-foot, Small Adder's-tongue (\"Ophioglossum azoricum\") and Autumn's Lady's-tresses (\"Spiranthes spiralis\") grow on Heathy Hill.\n\nShipman head has seven species of breeding seabirds:\n\nRinged Plover (\"Charadrius hiaticula\") breed on Shipman Down.\n\nVaried accommodation is available on the island. There are guesthouses and self-catering cottages scattered across the island. The campsite is located close to the north end of the island overlooking both coasts. The Hell Bay Hotel is located close to the coast on the west side.\n\nTwo quays are used (depending on tides) by boats which take tourists between Bryher and other islands, including St Mary's and Tresco. On some low tides it is possible to walk between Bryher and Tresco and even Samson, the uninhabited island to the south. There is also safe anchorage for small yachts in the channel and Green Bay.\nIn the north of the island are the Fraggle Rock Bar, Vine Cafe and the Bryher shop, which opened in 2011.\n\nThe Golden Eagle Gig shed on the west coast is the studio of the artist Richard Pearce.\n\nLocal activities include boating, walking and watching wildlife.\n\nIn 1989, the island was used for some of the scenes in the BBC's television adaptation of The Voyage of the Dawn Treader.\n\nWhen the Whales Came was made on location in 1989 and starred Helen Mirren, Helen Pearce, Paul Scofield and David Suchet.\n\nBryher features in various books:\n\"The Wreck of the Zanzibar\", \"The Sleeping Sword\", \"Why the Whales Came\" and \"Listen to the Moon\", all by Michael Morpurgo, \"Hell Bay\" by Sam Llewellyn, and \"The Old Success\" by Martha Grimes\n\nIn recent years Bryher has been become a popular girl's name.\n\nAnnie Winifred Ellerman, daughter of the UK's wealthiest man Sir John Ellerman, took the name Bryher as her nom de plume in the early 20th century.\n\nSee also the popular Cornish singing group Bryher's Boys.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119653", "title": "Pacific rudderfish", "text": "Pacific rudderfish\n\nThe Pacific rudderfish (\"Psenopsis anomala\") is a marine fish also known by such names as Japanese butterfish, melon seed, wart perch, ibodai (Japanese name, イボダイ) or simply but ambiguously as butterfish.\n\nThis fish, which can grow to TL, is found in the Western Pacific, near Japan, in the Taiwan Strait and in the East China Sea. The Japanese butterfish prefers tropical waters: around 42°N–19°N. It has been found in the waters near Hong Kong. Generally they inhabit the epipelagic layer to 370 m (1213 ft). Adults are mainly bottom-dwelling but migrate upward at night in search of food.\n\nThe Japanese butterfish has a compressed body, somewhat oval-shaped, and is whitish to grayish in colour; in the young fish, the colour is darker: a pale brown or blackish brown. Some other features of this fish are a robust snout, a relatively small mouth, and the upper jaw extending to below anterior margin of eye. The fish's teeth are small, conical, and incisor-like. Spines of the Japanese butterfish's dorsal fin are short and not separated from the soft-rayed portion. The scales on the body of the butterfish are small, cycloid, and very deciduous (meaning that they are shed off easily).\n\nThis species is of economic importance, commercially sought after, and caught by trawl by Japanese and Taiwanese fishermen. The total catch reported for this species in 1999 was 10,871 t, with Taiwan (5,075 t), and Japan (4,996 t) making up nearly all the catch.\n\nThe meat of the Japanese butterfish is very popular as food in its native range. It is said to be a tasty fish that can be steamed, pan-fried, or used in sushi.\n"}
{"id": "2119658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119658", "title": "Crystallinity", "text": "Crystallinity\n\nCrystallinity refers to the degree of structural order in a solid. In a crystal, the atoms or molecules are arranged in a regular, periodic manner. The degree of crystallinity has a big influence on hardness, density, transparency and diffusion. In an ideal gas, the relative positions of the atoms or molecules are completely random. Amorphous materials, such as liquids and glasses, represent an intermediate case, having order over short distances (a few atomic or molecular spacings) but not over longer distances.\n\nMany materials, such as glass-ceramics and some polymers, can be prepared in such a way as to produce a mixture of crystalline and amorphous regions. In such cases, crystallinity is usually specified as a percentage of the volume of the material that is crystalline. Even within materials that are completely crystalline, however, the degree of structural perfection can vary. For instance, most metallic alloys are crystalline, but they usually comprise many independent crystalline regions (grains or crystallites) in various orientations separated by grain boundaries; furthermore, they contain other crystallographic defects (notably dislocations) that reduce the degree of structural perfection. The most highly perfect crystals are silicon boules produced for semiconductor electronics; these are large single crystals (so they have no grain boundaries), are nearly free of dislocations, and have precisely controlled concentrations of defect atoms.\n\nCrystallinity can be measured using x-ray crystallography, but calorimetric techniques are also commonly used.\n\nGeologists describe four qualitative levels of crystallinity:\n\nOxford dictionary of science, 1999, .\n"}
{"id": "2119664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119664", "title": "Debrecen International Airport", "text": "Debrecen International Airport\n\nDebrecen International Airport is the international airport of Debrecen in the Hajdú-Bihar County of Hungary. It is located south southwest of the city center and also easily accessible to adjacent regions of Romania and Ukraine.\n\nThe history of Debrecen Airport goes back to the early 20th Century. The first official regular flight carrying mail took off in 1930. Subsequently, the Airport served sport and military purposes. From 1930, it had remarkable domestic traffic serving flights from Debrecen to Budapest and to other major cities in Hungary. During World War II it was the base of a Hungarian bombing squad.\n\nBetween 1946 and 1968, Debrecen Airport functioned also as an emergency airfield for Budapest Airport. Following World War II, the Soviet air force had control over the airport until 1990. The political transition brought the revival of the airport and international civilian traffic was launched together with sports aviation.\n\nIn May 1991, Soviet troops vacated the airport and handed in over to the Hungarian government. In 1994, the Debrecen Municipal Government realized the need to develop the airport and included it in its development plan. The city purchased the airport and has been steadily developing it.\n\nBy 2004, the city of Debrecen had invested 3.5 billion forints to purchase, operate, and continually develop Debrecen Airport.\n\nOn 18 June 2012, Wizz Air launched its scheduled service between Debrecen and London-Luton, initially with 3 weekly flights.\n\nIn 2012-2013, Tatarstan Airlines operated a bi-weekly flight to Moscow-Domodedovo. After the disaster of Tatarstan Airlines Flight 363 which forced Tatarstan Airlines into bankruption, the route was taken over by UTair Aviation. In 2014, due to souring Russia–European Union relations, a number of punitive sanctions were implemented vice versa that forced UTair to cancel the flight.\n\nIn 2015, Wizz Air established a cadet pilot school at the airport under the company Pharma-Flight Kft which also researches and produces pharmaceutical products for flight staff.\n\nWizz Air in 2015 announced they would base one Airbus A320 at Debrecen.\n\nThe construction of a new \"innovation and incubation centre\" at the airport which would host the new terminal on its ground floor began in June 2015. and scheduled to open in 2017.\n\nBuses \"Airport1\" and \"Airport2\" are operated by the local public transport company, called \"Debreceni Közlekedési Vállalat\" (DKV). \"Airport1\" runs between the airport and the main train station of Debrecen, where connections are available to local, regional and international buses, trams and trains, while \"Airport2\" runs between the Airport and the northern end of the city. The schedule of the buses are matched with the departure and arrival times of the planes at the airport, serving all inbound and outbound flights and can be used with any of the regular DKV tickets or passes.\n\nA direct bus connection was established in March 2016 between Nagyvárad (Oradea) and Debrecen International Airport. The schedule is matched with the arrival and departure times of the planes.\n\nThe street leading to the airport terminal is accessible from Route 47 only. Passengers arriving at the airport can get to their destinations by taxi for a fix tariff within city limits.\n\nThe airport has a recently reconstructed direct rail connection, but it is used for freight moving only. It will be made suitable for passenger traffic only if there will be a reasonable demand for the construction sometime in the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119668", "title": "Morris Graves", "text": "Morris Graves\n\nMorris Graves (August 28, 1910 – May 5, 2001) was an American painter. He was one of the earliest Modern artists from the Pacific Northwest to achieve national and international acclaim. His style, referred to by some reviewers as Mysticism, used the muted tones of the Northwest environment, Asian aesthetics and philosophy, and a personal iconography of birds, flowers, chalices, and other images to explore the nature of consciousness.\n\nAn article in a 1953 issue of \"Life\" magazine cemented Graves' reputation as a major figure of the 'Northwest School' of artists. He lived and worked mostly in Western Washington, but spent considerable time traveling and living in Europe and Asia, and spent the last several years of his life in Loleta, California.\n\nMorris Cole Graves was born August 28, 1910, in Fox Valley, Oregon, where his family had moved about a year before his birth, from Seattle, Washington, in order to claim land under the Homestead Act. He was named in honor of Morris Cole, a favored minister of his Methodist parents. He had five older brothers, and eventually, two younger siblings.\n\nConstant winds and cold winters made it much more difficult than expected to establish a working farm, and the struggle led to bankruptcy of the senior Graves' once-thriving paint and wallpaper store in Seattle. In 1911, a few months after Morris' birth, the family returned to the Seattle area, \nsettling north of the city in semi-rural Edmonds, Washington.\n\nHe was a self-taught artist with natural understandings of color and line.\n\nGraves dropped out of high school after his sophomore year, and between 1928 and 31, along with his brother Russell, visited all the major Asian ports of call as a steamship hand for the American Mail Line. On arriving in Japan, he wrote:\n\nIn his early twenties, Graves finished high school in 1932 in Beaumont, Texas, while living with his maternal aunt and uncle. He then returned to Seattle, and received his first recognition as an artist when his painting \"Moor Swan\" (1933) won an award in the Seattle Art Museum's Northwest Annual Exhibition and was purchased by the museum. He split his time between Seattle and La Conner, Washington, where he shared a studio with Guy Anderson. Graves' early work was in oils and focused on birds touched with strangeness, either blind, or wounded, or immobilized in webs of light.\n\nGraves began his lifelong study of Zen Buddhism in the early 1930s. In 1934, he built a small studio on family property in Edmonds, Washington. When it burned to the ground in 1935, almost all of his work to date was lost with it. His first one-man exhibition was in 1936 at the Seattle Art Museum (SAM); that same year he began working under Bruce Inverarity at the Seattle unit of the WPA's Federal Art Project. His participation was sporadic, but it was there that he met Mark Tobey and became impressed with Tobey's calligraphic line. In January 1937 Graves traveled to New York City to study with the controversial Father Divine's International Peace Mission movement in Harlem; on his return, in May, he bought on Fidalgo Island. In 1938 he quit the FAP and went to the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico to paint.\n\nIn 1940, Graves began building a house, which he named The Rock, on an isolated promontory on his Fidalgo Island property. He lived at The Rock with a succession of cats and dogs, all called Edith, in honor of poet Edith Sitwell.\n\nGraves was known for his personal charm and bursts of puckish humor, but also spent long periods in semi-isolation, absorbed in nature and his art. At the Rock, with the Second World War erupting, he retreated for a particularly long time and created a very large number of paintings. Many of them, such as \"Dove of the Inner Eye\" (1941) and \"Bird in the Night\" (1943), featured what would become Graves' iconic motif of birds trapped in layers of webbing or barbs, representing the artist's fears for the survival of man and nature in the face of modern industry and warfare. His near-isolation was interrupted in the Spring of 1942 when the Museum of Modern Art in New York opened its \"Americans 1942: 18 Artists from 9 States\" exhibition. Critics raved over Graves' contributions, all of which were quickly snapped up by museums and collectors. At the same time the U.S. Army came looking for him, as he had failed to achieve the conscientious objector status he had applied for. There was also suspicion of him due to his association with the International Peace Mission and the fact that among his few regular visitors at the Rock had been the brilliant Japanese-American designer George Nakashima and his Japanese-born wife Miriam, prior to their being sent to the Minidoka relocation center. While his work was receiving further exhibition in New York and Washington D.C., and phenomenal sales, the artist himself spent much of that same time in the stockade at Camp Roberts, California, where he went into a deep depression. He was finally released from military service in March 1943.\n\nWith help from longtime supporters Elizabeth Willis, Nancy Ross, and Marian Willard, owner of the Willard Gallery in New York, Graves' work continued to enjoy popularity throughout the war years and beyond, with numerous exhibitions. In the late 40s he purchased land in Woodway, Washington, and began construction of a unique cinderblock house he came to call \"Careladen\".\n\nGraves received a Guggehheim Fellowship allowing him to study in Japan, but only made it as far as Hawaii before his entry was blocked by Japan's U.S. military occupation authorities. He spent several months in 1947 painting and learning the Japanese language in Hawaii.\n\nBy the late 1940s Graves' and Mark Tobey's moment as the stars of the New York art world had faded, supplanted by the post-war rise of Action Painting and pure Abstraction.\n\nIn 1949 Graves sailed to England aboard RMS \"Mauretania\", spending a month as the guest of art collector Edward James. He then spent three solitary winter months in France, sketching and painting the Chartres Cathedral. This austere interlude may have been in response to critical complaints of superficiality in his more recent paintings; however, after returning to Seattle in 1950, he destroyed most of his Chartres works.\nIn 1952 photographer Dody Weston Thompson used part of her Albert M. Bender grant to photo document the unique home and surroundings of Graves, who she considered a close friend.\n\nIn the Spring of 1953, Graves staged the first Northwest art \"Happening\", sending invitations to everyone on the Seattle Art Museum mailing list:\nGuests, some in formal evening wear, arrived to find the driveway blocked by a trench; investigating on foot, they found a banquet table with a ten-day-old turkey feast being drenched by a garden sprinkler as dinner music and farm animal sounds played over speakers. With Graves and his cohorts refusing to answer the door, guests, amused and otherwise, responded by storming off, sketching the scene, or filching silverware from the table.\n\nIn September 1953, largely through the efforts of Seattle gallery owner Zoe Dusanne, \"Life\" magazine ran a major article on the \"Mystic Painters of the Northwest\", focusing on Graves, Mark Tobey, Kenneth Callahan, and Guy Anderson as the major figures of a perceived Northwest School of artists. Ironically, by this time the four had for the most part fallen out over various personal, political, and artistic issues, and were barely on speaking terms with each other.\n\nGraves' mid-career works were influenced by East Asian philosophy and mysticism, which he used as a way of approaching nature directly, avoiding theory. He adopted certain elements of Chinese and Japanese art, including the use of thin paper and ink drawing. He painted birds, pine trees, and waves. Works such as \"Blind Bird\" showed the influence of Mark Tobey, who was in turn inspired by Asian calligraphy. Graves switched from oils to gouaches, his birds became psychedelic, mystic, en route to transcendence. The paintings were bold, applied in a thick impasto with a palette knife, sometimes on coarse feed sacks.\n\nIn the 1950s, Graves returned to oils, but also painted in watercolor and tempera.\n\nBy 1954 Graves was feeling oppressed both by resurgent popularity and the encroachment of suburban development around his home. After spending several weeks in Japan, he rented Careladen to the poet Theodore Roethke and moved to Ireland. With companions Richard Svare and Dorothy Schumacher he lived in various parts of the country before settling on Woodton Manor, a rustic 18th century house near Dublin. In Ireland he created paintings known as the \"Hibernation\" series and became fascinated with the night sky. This led to \"Instruments for a New Navigation\", a collection of precisely rendered bronze, glass, and stone sculptures inspired by the dawning Space Age. Finding no market for these unusual pieces, they were disassembled and not displayed again until 1999.\n\nGraves returned to Seattle in 1964, living for several months in the so-called Pletscheff Mansion.\n\nIn 1965 Graves purchased 380 acres of redwood forest property, around a five-acre lake, in Loleta, California, near Eureka. He hired architect Ibsen Nelsen to design a home which, after numerous technical and financial problems, was eventually constructed beside the lake. Graves would live on this property, which he called simply 'The Lake', for the remaining 35 years of his life. Although a sign posted at the entrance to the property read \"No visitors today, tomorrow, or the day after\", Graves' assistant Richard Yarber lived there with him much of the time, and he occasionally allowed visits by family members and old friends.\n\nIn his sixties, Graves began a new phase of minimalist paintings of floral arrangements, works with a simplicity intended as a statement about the nature of beauty. He unpacked the \"Instruments of a New Navigation\" sculptures and completed them. He continued working in his garden, tending his flowers and manicuring the landscape of The Lake.\n\nMorris Graves died the morning of May 5, 2001 at his home in Loleta, hours after suffering a stroke.\n\nThe Morris Graves Museum of Art, located in the restored Carnegie library building in Eureka, California, bears his name and contains a small collection of his works and much of his personal collection of works by other artists.\nWorks by Morris Graves are included in the collections of the Art Institute of Chicago, the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, the Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art (Eugene, Oregon), the Museum of Modern Art (New York City), the Whitney Museum of American Art (New York City), the National Gallery of Art (Washington D.C.), the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the Smithsonian American Art Museum (Washington D.C.), The Phillips Collection (Washington D.C.), the Ackland Art Museum (Chapel Hill, N.C.), the Addison Gallery of American Art (Andover, Massachusetts), the Akron Art Museum (Akron, Ohio), the Brauer Museum of Art (Valparaiso, Indiana), the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Figge Art Museum (Davenport, Iowa), the Harvard Art Museums (Boston, Massachusetts), the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden (Washington D.C.), the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the Maier Museum of Art (Lynchburg, Virginia), the Memorial Art Gallery (Rochester, New York), the North Carolina Museum of Art (Raleigh, N.C.), the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts (Philadelphia, PA), the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Huntington Library (San Marino, California), the University of Mississippi Museum (Oxford, Miss.), the Walker Art Center (Minneapolis, Minn.), the Seattle Art Museum, the Tacoma Art Museum (Tacoma, Wash.), the Henry Gallery (Seattle, Wash.), the Museum of Northwest Art (La Conner, Wash.), Old Jail Art Center (Albany, Texas), and many other institutions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119678", "title": "St Martin's, Isles of Scilly", "text": "St Martin's, Isles of Scilly\n\nSt Martin's (, meaning \"dappled island\") is the northernmost populated island of the Isles of Scilly, England. It has an area of .\n\nThere are three main settlements on the island - Higher Town, Middle Town and Lower Town - in addition to a number of scattered farms and cottages, with a total population (2011 census) of 136.\n\nThere are two quays - at Higher Town (the Higher Town Quay, used at high tide) and at Lower Town (the Hotel Quay, used at low tide). In Higher Town there is a post office.\n\nThere is a vineyard on the island.\n\nTo the north, St Martin's is joined by a tidal causeway to White Island.\n\nAt the northeast corner of the island is a large red-and-white daymark. It was erected in 1683 by Thomas Ekins, first steward of the Godophin Family to live on the islands.\n\nIt is a rendered granite circular tower in diameter and high, set back to conical termination making it high. The blocked arched entrance door contains an incorrect date of 1637. It was painted white until 1822 but by 1833 had been painted red, and is now painted in bands of red and white.\n\nDespite its modernity, the daymark, alongside some prehistoric cairns, is a Scheduled Ancient Monument.\n\nThe daymark is built on the highest point of St Martin's — and the second-highest point in the Isles of Scilly — and the islands' only Ordnance Survey triangulation station is situated by the daymark; the position and relative height mean that the Cornish mainland is visible (when the weather allows) and the daymark is identifiable from the mainland too.\n\nThere are two churches on St Martin's: the Anglican parish church of St Martin's and a Methodist chapel, both located in the Higher Town area. The Methodist chapel dates from about 1845 and is part of the Isles of Scilly Methodist Circuit.\n\nSt Martin's is one of the five civil parishes of the Isles of Scilly, which are also wards. The civil parish and ward include several uninhabited islands and rocks, including the Eastern Isles, Great Ganilly, English Island and White Island. St Martin's returns one councillor to the Council of the Isles of Scilly, the same as the other \"off-island\" wards. The civil parish is not functional however, and there is no council or meeting.\n\nFive Islands Academy (previously Five Islands School) has its St Martin's Base, a primary campus. Secondary pupils board at the St Mary's main campus, staying there on weekdays and coming back and forth to their home islands on weekends.\n\nStudents at the sixth-form college level reside and board elsewhere, in mainland Great Britain. Previously the Learning and Skills Council paid for costs of accommodation for sixth-formers.\n\nSource\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119683", "title": "Jon Thorne", "text": "Jon Thorne\n\nJon Thorne (born 12 February 1967) is an English double bassist, producer and composer.\n\nThorne is self-taught and started playing at the age of 23. He has studied and played jazz for a number of years following and considers Danny Thompson his bass mentor.\n\nRenowned as a passionate, energetic and highly skilled performer, Thorne's career as a double bassist has spanned a broad range of the musical spectrum.\n\nAs bassist in the band Lamb since 1996, he has extensively used live double bass playing in electronic music and recorded 6 albums, toured 45 countries in 5 continents and played many of the world's leading music festivals including Coachella, Roskilde, Werchter, Glastonbury, Montreux Jazz, North Sea Jazz and NYC Central Park Summerstage. During the career of the successful group, Thorne acted as an unofficial third member with his most potent contribution on the group's second album \"Fear of Fours\".\n\nHe has performed on MTV USA, MTV Europe and BBC television/radio, and has had music used in various British and European film, television and advertising media.\n\nHe leads an octet called Oedipus Mingus, which plays arrangements of the music of Charles Mingus.\n\nHe has also performed with and recorded on albums with artists as diverse as Scott Matthews, Liam Bailey, Robert Miles, Trilok Gurtu, Robert Fripp, Donovan, Guy Barker, Badly Drawn Boy, Kate Havnevik, Lou Rhodes, James Yorkston, King Creosote, John Smith, The Accidental, CocoRosie, Amos Lee, Jesca Hoop, The Memory Band, Mr Scruff and Steve and Martha Tilston.\n\nHe co-wrote six songs on the self-titled debut album by Love Amongst Ruin with drummer/vocalist Steve Hewitt, released in September 2010.\n\nHis debut album \"Manchester Road\" was released through SAM LTD/ EGEA records in 2006 featured 12 original compositions of jazz with pianist Steve Brown and drummer Luke Flowers.\n\nHis first orchestral suite \"Watching the Well\", a Manchester Jazz Festival commission, written for and featuring legendary British bassist Danny Thompson, debuted at the Royal Northern College of Music in Manchester in 2007, and was released on the Naim label in November 2010 to strong critical acclaim.\n\nIn 2016, Thorne formed the trio Yorkston/Thorne/Khan alongside Scottish folk musician James Yorkston and New Delhi sarangi player Suhail Yusuf Khan. They released their debut album \"Everything Sacred\" that year, followed by a second album \"Neuk Wight Delhi All-Stars\" in 2017. Their third album, \"Navarasa: Nine Emotions\", was released in January 2020.\n\nThorne \"DJs\" as DJ Random. He occasionally teaches privately; his most notable students so far have been John Parker from Nizlopi and Nick Blacka from GoGo Penguin.\n\nThorne was born in Rye Street Cottage Hospital in Bishop's Stortford, Hertfordshire. He lived in Rhodesia from the age of 6 to 11. Between ages 11 and 15 he lived in Salcombe in South Devon before heading north to Manchester, via Plumley, Knutsford, Northwich and Oldham.\n\nThorne now lives on the Isle of Wight. He is married and has three children. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119684", "title": "Waltharius", "text": "Waltharius\n\nWaltharius is a Latin epic poem founded on German popular tradition relating the exploits of the Visigothic hero Walter of Aquitaine. While its subject matter is taken from early medieval Germanic legend, the epic stands firmly in the Latin literary tradition in terms of its form and the stylistic devices used. Thus, its 1456 verses are written in dactylic hexameter (the traditional meter of Latin epic poetry) and the poem includes copious references to (and phrases borrowed from) various Latin epics of antiquity, especially Vergil's \"Aeneid\".\n\nOur knowledge of the author, Ekkehard, a monk of St. Gall, is due to a later Ekkehard, known as Ekkehard IV (died 1060), who gives some account of him in the \"Casus Sancti Galli\" (cap. 80). Ekkehard IV's account is much discussed among scholars and seems to be confirmed by another monk of St. Gall, Herimannus, the author of the later (\"ca\" 1075) life of St Wiborada of St Gall where he cites verse 51 of the \"Waltharius\". According to Ekkehard IV, the poem was written by the earlier Ekkehard, generally distinguished as Ekkehard I, for his master Geraldus in his schooldays. This would date the poem no later than 920, since he was probably no longer young when he became deacon (in charge of ten monks) in 957. He died in 973.\n\n\"Waltharius\" was dedicated by Geraldus to Erchanbald, bishop of Strasbourg (fl. 965-991), but manuscripts of it were in circulation before that time. Ekkehard IV stated that he corrected the Latin of the poem, the Germanisms of which offended his patron Aribo, archbishop of Mainz. The poem was probably based on epic songs now lost, so that if the author was still in his teens when he wrote it he must have possessed considerable and precocious powers.\n\nWaltharius was the son of Alphere, ruler of Aquitaine, which in the 5th century, when the legend developed, was the centre of the Visigothic kingdom of Toulouse. When Attila invaded the west, the western princes are represented as making no resistance. They purchased peace by offering tribute and hostages. King Gibicho, here described as a Frankish king, gave Hagano as a hostage (of Trojan race, but not, as in the \"Nibelungenlied\", a kinsman of the royal house) in place of his infant son Guntharius; the Burgundian king Herirīcus, his daughter Hiltgunt; and Alphere, his son Waltharius.\n\nHagano and Waltharius became brothers in arms, fighting at the head of Attila's armies, while Hiltgunt was put in charge of the queen's treasure. Presently Guntharius succeeded his father and refused to pay tribute to the Huns, whereupon Hagano fled from Attila's court. Waltharius and Hiltgunt, who had been betrothed in childhood, also made good their escape during a drunken feast of the Huns, taking with them a great treasure. They were recognized at Worms, however, where the treasure excited the cupidity of Guntharius. Taking with him twelve knights, among them the reluctant Hagano, he pursued them, and overtook them at the Wasgenstein in the Vosges mountains (Vosagus). Waltharius, mentioned as being armed in fine armor made by the legendary smith Wieland, engaged the Nibelungen knights one at a time, until all were slain but Hagano. The latter held aloof from the battle due to his vows of friendship with Waltharius, and was only persuaded by Guntharius to attack his comrade due to Waltharius' killing of some of family members. So Hagano and Guntharius devised a plan to wait until the second day, when they lured Waltharius from the strong position of the day before and attacked him together. All three were incapacitated, but their wounds were bound up by Hiltgunt and they separated as friends.\n\nThe essential part of this story is the series of single combats. The occasional incoherences of the tale make it probable that many changes have been introduced in the legend. The \"Þiðrekssaga\" (chaps. 241-244) makes the story more probable by representing the pursuers as Huns. There is reason to believe that Hagano was originally the father of Hiltgunt, and that the tale was a variant of the saga of Hild as told in the Skáldskaparmál. Hildr, daughter of King Hǫgni, was carried off by Heðinn, son of Hjarrandi (A.S. Heorrenda). The fight between the forces of father and lover only ceased at sundown, to be renewed on the morrow, since each evening Hildr raised the dead by her incantations. This has been interpreted as a form of the old myth of the daily recurring struggle between light and darkness. The songs sung by Hiltgunt in \"Waltharius\" during her night watches were probably incantations, a view strengthened by the fact that in a Polish version the glance of Helgunda is said to have inspired the combatants with new strength. Hiltgunt has retained nothing of Hild's fierceness, but the fragment of the Anglo-Saxon \"Waldere\" shows more of the original spirit. In \"Waltharius\" Hiltgunt advises Waltharius to fly; in \"Waldere\" she urges him to the combat.\n\nOne of the most extensive studies of the poem is by Dennis M. Kratz, who argues that the poem makes sophisticated use of allusions to its Classical sources to satirise the heroic ethics of its protagonists.\n\n\nThere are two fragments of a 9th-century Old English version, known as \"Waldere\", consisting of 15 lines each, discovered in 1860, edited by George Stephens.\n\nWaltharius was first edited by F. Ch. J. Fischer (Leipzig, 1780) and Fr. Molter (Karlsruhe). Later and more critical editions are by: Jacob Grimm \"Lateinische Gedichte des Mittelalters\" (Göttingen, 1838); R. Peiper (Berlin, 1873); V. Scheffel, A. Holder (Stuttgart, 1874), Marion Dexter Learned (Baltimore, 1892, the entire corpus of texts concerning the Saga of Walther of Aquitaine), and Karl Strecker (Weimar, 1951); there are German translations by F. Linnig (Paderborn, 1885), H. Althof (Leipzig, 1896), and Karl Langosch (Darmstadt, 1967).\n\nDennis Kratz produced an English edition and translation under the title, \"Waltharius, and Ruodlieb\", ed. and trans. by Dennis M. Kratz, The Garland Library of Medieval Literature, Series A, 13 (New York: Garland, 1984). More recently, the Dallas Medieval Texts and Translations series has published a new Latin text and English translation, authored by Abram Ring: \"Waltharius.\" Edition, Translation, and Introduction by Abram Ring, Dallas Medieval Texts and Translations 22 (Louvain: Peeters, 2016).\n\nSee also Scheffel's novel \"Ekkehard\" (Stuttgart, 1887); B. Symons, \"Deutsche Heldensage\" (Strassburg, 1905).\n\nWith Waltharius compare the Scottish ballads of \"Earl Brand\" and \"Erlinton\" (F.J. Child's \"English and Scottish Popular Ballads\", i. 88 seq.).\n\n"}
{"id": "2119685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119685", "title": "Bloody Mother Fucking Asshole", "text": "Bloody Mother Fucking Asshole\n\nBloody Mother Fucking Asshole is a five track EP by Martha Wainwright. It was released in January 2005 through both Zoë Records and Drowned in Sound.\n\n\"Bloody Mother Fucking Asshole\" was inspired by Wainwright's father, Loudon Wainwright III. She wrote the track as a response to her father's way of writing songs about his family, rather than tending to them. Despite the sentiment, she collaborated a year earlier with Loudon on the song \"You Never Phone\" on his \"So Damn Happy\" album.\n\nThe EP was released in the UK as a 4 song EP (\"When The Day Is Short\" omitted) on the Drowned in Sound label.\n\n\"Bloody Mother Fucking Asshole\" was used at the end of the second episode in season three of the Netflix original series \"Orange is the New Black\", and at the end of the fourth episode in season one of the HBO original series \"Big Little Lies\".\n\nThe review in \"PopMatters\" calls the EP \"a rebellious introductory stance for an artist looking to provoke or silence potential critics\" and states that Wainwright is \"as different from her brother as her brother is different from their father, but like both men, she's fiercely honest and stubbornly candid\". AllMusic write that \"Wainwright's husky voice has matured into a thing of real beauty, and her ability to sound both majestic and totally wrecked helps to humanize each track\".\n\n\nThe title song \"Bloody Mother Fucking Asshole\" has been translated into a Swedish version by Caroline af Ugglas. The song, in Swedish called \"Vill inte spela glad\" (\"Don't Want to Act Happy\"), can be found on her album \"Så gör jag det igen\", released March 18, 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119691", "title": "Monthly Anthology", "text": "Monthly Anthology\n\nThe Monthly Anthology and Boston Review was a miscellaneous magazine published by the Anthology Club of Boston, Massachusetts from 1804–1811. The more famous \"North American Review\" is generally considered to be its successor.\n\nOliver Wendell Holmes describes the magazine thus, in his disquisition on Ralph Waldo Emerson: \"The \"Anthology\" was the literary precursor of the \"North American Review\", and the theological herald of the \"Christian Examiner\". Like all first beginnings it showed many marks of immaturity. It mingled extracts and original contributions, theology and medicine, with all manner of literary chips and shavings. It had Magazine ways that smacked of Sylvanus Urban; leading articles with balanced paragraphs which recalled the marching tramp of Johnson; translations that might have been signed with the name of Creech, and Odes to Sensibility, and the like, which recalled the syrupy sweetness and\nlanguid trickle of Laura Matilda's sentimentalities. It talked about 'the London Reviewers' with a kind of provincial deference. It printed articles with quite too much of the license of Swift and Prior for the Magazines of to-day. But it had opinions of its own, and would compare well enough with \"The Gentleman's Magazine\"...\"\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119695", "title": "William Burkitt", "text": "William Burkitt\n\nWilliam Burkitt (25 July 1650 in Hitcham, Suffolk, England – 24 October 1703 in Essex) was a biblical expositor and vicar and lecturer of Dedham, Essex, England.\n\nHis father was Michael, usually called Miles, Burkitt (otherwise Birkhead), of St. Edmund Hall, Oxford, a clergyman who began his career as a zealous high-churchman, and ended his days in nonconformity. \nAt the Restoration, Miles Burkitt lost the well-endowed rectory of Hitcham. \nSome time afterwards he was presented to the rectories of Irstead and Neatishead, Norfolk, but was ejected within three months by the Act of Uniformity (1662). \nHe also lost the manor of Monks Eleigh, Suffolk, belonging to the dean and chapter of Canterbury, which he had purchased from the Commonwealth Commissioners, and which cost him, with improvements, £2500, he continued to live at Monks Eleigh, and ultimately prospered; ‘Though,' he said, ‘I have lost many scores of pounds by my nonconformity, yet, blessed be God, I never wanted.' \nHis wife was a Sparrow, of Rede (Reade), Suffolk. He was buried in Monks Eleigh on 24 Sep. 1669.\nWilliam Burkitt’s tradition was that of a reformed Anglican churchman. \nHis early training was under John Goffe, an alumnus of Pembroke Hall, Cambridge, at Bildeston, Suffolk, and then at the grammar school of Stowmarket and the Perse School, Cambridge, under George Griffiths. \nHe dated his religious conversion from an attack of small-pox, while at the latter school.\n\nOn 28 January 1665 he was admitted a sizar at Pembroke Hall, Cambridge, his tutor being William Gibbs. \nIn 1666, when Cambridge was visited with the plague, he was one of the few students who remained in residence. He graduated B.A. in 1668, M.A. in 1672; but was never a fellow, as has been stated.\n\nHe left the university to become chaplain at Bildeston Hall, and after this was ordained by Bishop Reynolds at a very early age; for either in 1671, the year of his majority, or at the beginning of 1672, he was settled at Milden, Suffolk, first as curate in charge, afterwards as rector. \nIn December 1692, he was preferred to the vicarage and lectureship of Dedham, Essex, where he ended his days. \nWhile at Milden he was intimate with William Gurnall, rector of the neighbouring parish of Lavenham, the author of ‘The Christian in Compleat Armour,’ and in 1679 preached his funeral sermon.\n\nHe preached also in 1691 a violent sermon at Lavenham against some Baptists, who, under one Tredwell from London, were ‘making proselytes by rebaptising them in a nasty horsepond.' Burkitt went to the barn in which the Baptist meeting was held, and repeated his exhortation there. More commendable was his attitude towards the French protestant exiles. \nHis generous efforts in their behalf, begun at midsummer 1687, and continued till 1692, resulted in the raising of £216. 17\"s\"., which he personally distributed to needy refugees in Suffolk and Essex.\n\nHe exhibited also a zeal for foreign missions; by his great care, pains, an charges, he procured a pious minister to go and settle in Carolina. \nPossibly this was one of the ‘poor students’ towards whose maintenance at Cambridge he liberally contributed. \nHe was exceedingly charitable, and was diligent in his pastoral duties, preaching thrice a week (besides village services) in a plain style with a winning voice, visiting and catechising with assiduity, and, though greatly attached to the prayer-book, constantly using the liberty of extemporary prayer before sermon. \nHis character was somewhat wanting in geniality. \nA malignant fever carried him off in a week’s time.\n\nHe died on Sunday, 24 October 1703, leaving a widow, and having married thrice. \nHis funeral sermon was preached by his brother-in-law, Nathaniel Parkhurst, M.A. vicar of Yoxford, Suffolk. He bequeathed his house and some land as a residence for the lecturer at Dedham.\n\n\nCharles Spurgeon regarded Burkitt's commentary as a \"goodly volume,\" and recommended \"attentive perusal\" of it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119702", "title": "Finnish Canadians", "text": "Finnish Canadians\n\nFinnish Canadians are Canadian citizens of Finnish ancestry or Finns who emigrated to and reside in Canada. According to the 2001 census number over 131,040 Canadians claim Finnish ancestry. Finns started coming to Canada in the early 1880s, and in much larger numbers in the early 20th century and well into the mid-20th century. Finnish immigration to Canada was often a direct result of economic depressions and wars, or in the aftermath of major conflicts like the Finnish Civil War. Canada was often chosen as a final destination because of the similarity in climate and natural conditions, while employment in logging or homesteading attracted landless farmers in the early 20th century. Migratory movements of Finns between Canada and the United States was very common as well.\n\nIn the early 20th century, newly arrived Finnish immigrants to Canada quickly became involved in political organizations, churches, athletic clubs and other forms of associational life. Halls and co-operatives were often erected in communities with sizable Finnish populations. \"Finnish Canadians\" pioneered efforts to establish co-operatives in several Canadian cities. Canada's largest co-operative, the \nConsumers' Co-operative Society, was started by Finns.\n\nThe 2011 Census recorded 136,215 Canadians who claimed Finnish ancestry, an increase compared to the 2006 Census.\n\nThe earliest Finnish immigrants to Canada came from the US, possibly as early as 1820's for the construction of the Welland Canal. The Canadian Pacific Railway recruited immigrants directly from Finland in the late 1800s.\n\nCanadians of Finnish ancestry often formed a large percentage of left-wing organizations during the early 1900s, as Finland had, by 1906 as a part of the Russian empire, already become one of the first nations to adopt universal suffrage. Up until the early 1940s, the so-called \"Red Finns,\" who held deep socialist convictions, far outnumbered \"White Finns,\" the more religious and conservative Finns. This was partially due to the number of political refugees escaping persecution after the Finnish Civil War, but also attributable to the response of several, formerly apolitical Finns from rural Ostrobothnia, to harsh economic conditions. Finnish Canadians with Marxist political views aligned themselves with the Social Democratic Party of Canada and later, with the Communist Party of Canada, centered around the newspaper \"Vapaus\" (Freedom). Many Finns, however, were distrustful of politicians as a result of the perceived failure and reformism of the Finnish Social Democratic Party during the general strike in November 1917 and the reformist policy the party adopted after the Civil War. Finns arriving in Canada who had already faced severe class conflict and repression would line-up with the radical union, the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) emphasizing anti-authoritarianism and anti-statism. The IWW would hold considerable influence in the mines and logging camps of Northern Ontario.\n\nA decline in the Finnish-Canadian population began with the exodus 2000-3000 skilled workers and loggers to Soviet Karelia in the 1920s and 30s, and the large number of Finnish-Canadian volunteers in the Spanish Civil War. Finnish-Canadians, along with Ukrainians, formed the largest section of volunteers in the Canadian contingent of the International Brigades, Mackenzie-Papineau Battalion. Finns formed the Mackenzie-Papineau Battalions \"Ilkka\" machine-gun company. The period after the 1930s marks a decline in Finnish co-operative activity in Canada.\n\nCanada started seeing a drastic increase in immigration from Finland during the late 1920s and forward, as the United States Immigration Act of 1924 did not consider Finland to be among the Western European favourable countries to have immigration from, resulting in a strong restriction of 500 Finnish immigrants per year to the US. Despite conservative \"White\" Finnish support for Nazi Germany during World War II, Canadian immigration policy in the 1940s favoured admitting \"White Finns\" to Canada. This, combined with a fiercely anti-socialist view in the post-World War II era, led to a shift in the political balance of the Finnish-Canadian community.\n\nCentral Canada (mainly Ontario) has generally been the largest destination for Finns, followed by British Columbia, recording 72,990 (ON) and 29,875 (BC) Finns in 2006. Several small rural Finnish communities were established in Alberta and Saskatchewan.\n\nToday, the communities of Thunder Bay, Sudbury and New Finland form the main centres of Finnish-Canadian activity. Thunder Bay boasts the largest Finnish population outside of Fennoscandia, and the only Finnish cultural centre in Canada, housed in the Finnish Labour Temple along with the Hoito Restaurant. The Finnish-Canadian weeklies Canadan Sanomat and Vapaa Sana publish out of Thunder Bay and Toronto respectively. Another significant Finnish-Canadian newspaper, Vapaus, was published in Sudbury from 1917 to 1974. Other prominent communities are Sault Ste. Marie, Kirkland Lake and Timmins, in Ontario.\n\nFinnish Canadian population by province and territory in Canada in 2011:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119708", "title": "Kenneth Callahan", "text": "Kenneth Callahan\n\nKenneth Callahan (1905–1986) was an American painter and muralist who served as a catalyst for Northwest artists in the mid-20th century through his own painting, his work as assistant director and curator at the Seattle Art Museum, and his writings about contemporary art. Born in Eastern Washington and largely self-taught as an artist, Callahan was committed to an art that went beyond the merely illustrative. He enrolled at the University of Washington in 1924 but did not stay long. He traveled widely, absorbing influences from the different countries and cultures he experienced. His talent was recognized early; his work was included in the first Whitney Biennial exhibition in 1933 and he went on to a distinguished painting career. Callahan is identified as one of the Northwest Mystics – along with Guy Anderson, Morris Graves, and Mark Tobey, who shared a muted palette and strong interest in Asian aesthetics.\n\nKenneth Callahan was born in Spokane, Washington, on October 30, 1905, the fifth of seven children of John and Martha Ann Cross Callahan. He spent his growing years in the small town of Glasgow, Montana. Encouraged by his mother, he began painting watercolors at age seven. In 1918 he moved with his family to Raymond, Washington, then two years later to Seattle, where he took art classes at Broadway High School. Both his parents died while he was still a teenager.\n\nCallahan enrolled in the University of Washington, but left after two months. Moving to San Francisco, he did illustrations for a children's magazine, and, while living in low-rent apartments with other artists, had his first exposure to contemporary abstract art. At that time he was painting in a realist style inspired by Thomas Hart Benton and the artists of the Ashcan School, but he was deeply impressed by the originality of Klee, Kandinsky, and Feininger. He later told journalist Deloris Tarzan Ament, \"It was the first time it occurred to me that there could be good art that I didn't like.\"\n\nIn 1926 Callahan had his first one-man show at San Francisco's Schwabacher-Frey Gallery; the following year he began his world travels as a ship's steward, winding up back in Seattle in 1930.\n\nIn 1930 Callahan married Margaret Bundy, who was a co-editor of \"Town Crier\", a literary magazine published in Seattle between 1912 and 1937.\n\nThe Callahans developed friendships with Dr. Richard Fuller (founder of the Seattle Art Museum), Mark Tobey, Morris Graves, and other progressive-minded artists. Their home became a meeting-place for Seattle's arts community, including prominent Japanese-American artists Kenjiro Nomura and Kamekichi Tokita, and many others.\n\nIn 1933 - at age 27 - he gained national recognition with the inclusion of some of his paintings in the First Biennial Exhibition of Contemporary Art at the Whitney Museum, in New York. The same year he began his twenty-year tenure with SAM, when it opened its new building in Seattle's Volunteer Park. Over the next two decades he curated exhibitions at SAM, wrote a weekly arts column for \"The Seattle Times\", and took trips to Europe and Latin America; his main focus, however, remained his painting. He had numerous exhibitions, was commissioned to do several murals (including post office murals for the Federal Art Project in Anacortes and Centralia, Washington and Rugby, North Dakota), and helped form the Group of Twelve, an \"independent salon\" of Northwest artists. In the late 1930s he and his wife began spending much of their time in the Robe Valley area of the North Cascades mountains; during the Second World War he spent summers as a U.S. Forest Service fire lookout in the Cascades.\n\nMargaret gave birth to their son Brian Tobey Callahan in 1938.\n\nCallahan was a somewhat controversial figure within the arts community, with some artists seeing conflict of interest in his positions as artist, curator, and critic. In 1953 he ceased working at SAM. Later that same year \"Life\" magazine ran an article with large color photos extolling Callahan, Graves, Anderson, and Tobey as the \"Mystic Painters of the Pacific Northwest\".\n\nCallahan never considered himself to be a \"mystic\" painter. In writings and interviews he explained that he wasn't interested in symbolism; rather, he saw his work as being firmly rooted in nature and art history - as it plainly was through the early part of his career. By the early 1960s, however, his style had become much more complex - and seemingly rife with symbolism. \"He liked muscle-bound grandeur,\" wrote arts journalist Regina Hackett, \"but released the figures who displayed it from the confines of gravity. Full of light, many hover on the edge of floating away.\" Over time, figurative elements - men, horses, trees, insects - disappeared from his work, in favor of pure abstraction, but still, said Callahan, \"It is nature, with its unlimited varied form, structure, and color that constitutes the vital living force from which art must basically stem.\"\n\nWhile Callahan enjoyed his status as a respected artist, the increasingly abstract style of his painting did not lend itself to ready sales. He supplemented his income with occasional teaching jobs at various colleges, and in 1954 applied for and received a Guggenheim Fellowship.\n\nIn 1961 Margaret died of cancer; two years later his summer home/studio near the Stillaguamish River burned down while he was in Europe, with the loss of many paintings by both himself and friends.\n\nHe married Beth Inge Gotfredsen in 1964, and they moved to Long Beach, Washington, on the Pacific coast.\n\nCallahan continued painting in his studio near the shore in Long Beach, but at a more relaxed pace.\n\nThe Seventies saw two unusual commissioned works: In 1972 he designed costumes and sets for the Seattle Repertory Theatre's production of \"Macbeth\", and in 1976, the owner of Longacres racetrack asked him to do a series of paintings of horses for an on-site restaurant. Callahan, a lifelong horse lover, enjoyed the assignment immensely.\n\nIn 1973, the Henry Art Gallery presented \"Universal Voyages\", the most comprehensive retrospective of Callahan's work ever mounted.\n\nIn 1975, he was elected into the National Academy of Design as an Associate member, and became a full member in 1977.\n\nIn 1984 Callahan moved back to Seattle and turned his artistic attention to urban life, in contrast with the sea and light studies that dominated his work during two decades at Long Beach.\n\nIn May, 1986, following a brief illness, he died at his home in Seattle. He was 81.\n\nCallahan's works are included in collections at the Metropolitan Museum, the Guggenheim, and the Museum of Modern Art in New York; the Corcoran Gallery, the Phillips Collection, and the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington, D.C.; the Chicago Art Institute, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the Seattle Art Museum, and the Tacoma Art Museum. In 2014, several of his works were included in \"Modernism in the Pacific Northwest: the Mythic and the Mystical\", a major exhibition at the Seattle Art Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119717", "title": "Audio converter", "text": "Audio converter\n\nAn audio converter is a device or software that converts an audio signal from one format to another.\n\nHardware audio converters include analog-to-digital converters (ADCs), which convert analog audio to uncompressed digital form (e.g., PCM), and their reciprocal partners, digital to analog converters (DACs), which convert uncompressed digital audio to analog form. ADCs and DACs are usually components of hardware products. For example, sound cards and capture cards both include ADCs to allow a computer to record audio. Sound cards also feature DACs for audio playback.\n\nSome audio conversion functions can be performed by software or by specialized hardware. For example, an audio transcoder converts from one compressed audio format to another (e.g., MP3 to AAC) by means of two audio codecs: One for decoding (uncompressing) the source and one for encoding (compressing) the destination file or stream.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119729", "title": "List of Japanese political figures in early Shōwa period", "text": "List of Japanese political figures in early Shōwa period\n\nList of important political and civil figures during World War II:\n\n"}
{"id": "2119742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119742", "title": "List of high schools in Turkey", "text": "List of high schools in Turkey\n\nThe following is a list of high schools in Turkey, categorised by province:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119759", "title": "Sand mining", "text": "Sand mining\n\nSand mining is the extraction of sand, mainly through an open pit but sometimes mined from beaches and inland dunes or dredged from ocean and river beds. Sand is often used in manufacturing, for example as an abrasive or in concrete. It is also used on icy and snowy roads usually mixed with salt, to lower the melting point temperature, on the road surface. Sand can replace eroded coastline. Some uses require higher purity than others; for example sand used in concrete must be free of seashell fragments.\n\nSand mining presents opportunities to extract rutile, ilmenite and zircon, which contain the industrially useful elements titanium and zirconium. These minerals typically are found in ordinary sand deposits and are separated by water elutriation.\n\nSand mining is a direct cause of erosion, and impacts the local wildlife. Various animals depend on sandy beaches for nesting clutches, and mining has led to the near extinction of gharials (a species of crocodile) in India. Disturbance of underwater and coastal sand causes turbidity in the water, which is harmful for organisms like coral that need sunlight. It can also destroy fisheries, financially harming their operators.\n\nRemoval of physical coastal barriers, such as dunes, sometimes leads to flooding of beachside communities, and the destruction of picturesque beaches causes tourism to dissipate. Sand mining is regulated by law in many places, but is often done illegally. Globally, it is a $70 billion industry, with sand selling at up to $90 per cubic yard.\n\nIn the 1940 mining operations began on the Kurnell Peninsula (Captain Cook's landing place in Australia) to supply the expanding Sydney building market. It continued until 1990 with an estimate of over 70 million tonnes of sand having been removed. The sand has been valued for many decades by the building industry, mainly because of its high crushed shell content and lack of organic matter, it has provided a cheap source of sand for most of Sydney since sand mining operations began. The site has now been reduced to a few remnant dunes and deep water-filled pits which are now being filled with demolition waste from Sydney's building sites. Removal of the sand has significantly weakened the peninsula's capacity to resist storms. Ocean waves pounding against the reduced Kurnell dune system have threatened to break through to Botany Bay, especially during the storms of May and June back in 1974 and of August 1998.\nSand Mining also takes place in the Stockton sand dunes north of Newcastle and in the Broken Hill region in the far west of the state.\n\nA large and long-running sand mine in Queensland, Australia (on North Stradbroke Island) provides a case study in the (disastrous) environmental consequences on a fragile sandy-soil based ecosystem, justified by the provision of low wage casual labor on an island with few other work options. The Labor state government pledged to end sand mining by 2025, but this decision was overturned by the LNP government which succeeded it. This decision has been subject to an allegation of corrupt conduct.\n\nSand mining contributes to the construction of buildings and development. However, the negative effects of sand mining include the permanent loss of sand in areas, as well as major habitat destruction.\n\nSand mining is a practice that is becoming an environmental issue in India. Environmentalists have raised public awareness of illegal sand mining in the states of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Goa of India.<ref name=\"http://articles.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/2010-01-10/mumbai/28118792_1_activists-anandini-thakoor-sand-mining-mafia\"></ref> Conservation and environmental NGO Awaaz Foundation filed a public interest litigation in the Bombay High Court seeking a ban on mining activities along the Konkan coast. Awaaz Foundation, in partnership with the Bombay Natural History Society also presented the issue of sand mining as a major international threat to coastal biodiversity at the Conference of Parties 11, Convention on Biological Diversity, Hyderabad in October 2012.\n\nD. K. Ravi, an Indian Administrative Service officer of the Karnataka state, who was well known for his tough crackdown on the rampant illegal sand mining in the Kolar district, was found dead at his residence in Bengaluru, on March 16, 2015. It is widely alleged that the death is not due to suicide but the handiwork of the mafia involved in land grabbing and sand mining.\n\nRecently, activists and local villagers have protested against sand mining on Sierra Leone's Western Area Peninsular. The activity is contributing to Sierra Leone's coastal erosion, which is proceeding at up to 6 meters a year.\n\nThe current size of the sand mining market in the United States is slightly over a billion dollars per year. The industry has been growing by nearly 10% annually since 2005 because of its use in hydrocarbon extraction. The majority of the market size for mining is held by Texas and Illinois.\n\nSilica sand mining business has more than doubled since 2009 because of the need for this particular type of sand, which is used in a process known as hydraulic fracturing. Wisconsin is one of the five states that produce nearly 2/3 of the nation’s silica. As of 2009, Wisconsin, along with other northern states, is facing an industrial mining boom, being dubbed the \"sand rush\" because of the new demand from large oil companies for silica sand. According to Minnesota Public Radio, \"One of the industry's major players, U.S. Silica, says its sand sales tied to hydraulic fracturing nearly doubled to $70 million from 2009 to 2010 and brought in nearly $70 million in \"just the first nine months\" of 2011.\" According to the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (WDNR), there are currently 34 active mines and 25 mines in development in Wisconsin. In 2012, the WDNR released a final report on the silica sand mining in Wisconsin titled \"Silica Sand Mining in Wisconsin\". The recent boom in silica sand mining has caused concern from residents in Wisconsin that include quality of life issues and the threat of silicosis. However, these are issues that the state has no authority to regulate. According to the WDNR (2012) these issues include noise, lights, hours of operation, damage and excessive wear to roads from trucking traffic, public safety concerns from the volume of truck traffic, possible damage and annoyance resulting from blasting, and concerns regarding aesthetics and land use changes.\n\nAs of 2013, industrial frac sand mining has become a cause for activism, especially in the Driftless Area of southeast Minnesota, northeast Iowa and southwest Wisconsin.\n\nMuch sand is extracted by dredges from the bottom of rivers such as the Red River in Yunnan, or quarried in dry river beds. Due to the large demand for sand for construction, illicit sand mining is not uncommon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119760", "title": "Garoto", "text": "Garoto\n\nChocolates Garoto S.A. is a Brazilian chocolate manufacturer. Its headquarters are located in Vila Velha, Espírito Santo. The company was founded in 1929 by German immigrant Heinrich Meyerfreund.\n\nFirst Garoto started as a small producer of chocolates, today, it is one of Brazil's largest manufacturers of chocolate. It exports its chocolate to various countries around the world. Currently, Garoto's chocolate candy bars are distributed by a variety of distributors. Walgreens had sold Garoto's candies under the brand name of Regal Dynasty, but has recently switched to a Polish supplier.\n\nAccording to the official website (see link below), it was acquired in 2002 by Nestlé of Switzerland but continues operating separately.\n\nOn January 16, 2013 the company signed sponsorship of 200 million reais with FIFA and the CBF to be the official chocolate of the Confederations Cup 2013 and the 2014 World Cup in Brazil.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119766", "title": "Native copper", "text": "Native copper\n\nNative copper is an uncombined form of copper that occurs as a natural mineral. Copper is one of the few metallic elements to occur in native form, although it most commonly occurs in oxidized states and mixed with other elements. Native copper was an important ore of copper in historic times and was used by pre-historic peoples.\n\nNative copper occurs rarely as isometric cubic and octahedral crystals, but more typically as irregular masses and fracture fillings. It has a reddish, orangish, and/or brownish color on fresh surfaces, but typically is weathered and coated with a green tarnish of copper(II) carbonate (also known as patina or verdigris). Its specific gravity is 8.9 and its hardness is 2.5–3.\n\nThe mines of the Keweenaw native copper deposits of Upper Michigan were major copper producers in the 19th and early 20th centuries, and are the largest deposits of native copper in the world. Native Americans mined copper on a small scale at this and many other locations, and evidence exists of copper trading routes throughout North America among native peoples, proven by isotopic analysis. The first commercial mines in the Keweenaw Peninsula (which is nicknamed the \"Copper Country\" and \"Copper Island\") opened in the 1840s. Isle Royale in western Lake Superior was also a site of many tons of native copper. Some of it was extracted by native peoples, but only one of several commercial attempts at mining turned a profit there. An archived record of native copper originally found up river from Lake Superior, on the west branch of the Ontonagon River, via being dragged by a glacier is seen in the Ontonagon Boulder, Ontonagon Boulder now in the possession of the Department of Mineral Sciences, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution. \n\nAnother major native copper deposit is in Coro Coro, Bolivia.\n\nThe name copper comes from the Greek \"kyprios\", \"of Cyprus\", the location of copper mines since pre-historic times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119769", "title": "Portuguese succession crisis of 1580", "text": "Portuguese succession crisis of 1580\n\nThe Portuguese succession crisis of 1580 () came about as a result of the deaths of young King Sebastian I of Portugal in the Battle of Alcácer Quibir in 1578 and his successor and great-uncle Henry I in 1580. As Sebastian and Henry had no immediate heirs, these events prompted a dynastic crisis, with internal and external battles between several pretenders to the Portuguese throne; in addition, because Sebastian's body was never found, several impostors emerged over the next several years claiming to be the young king, further confusing the situation. Ultimately, Philip II of Spain gained control of the country, uniting the Portuguese and Spanish Crowns in the Iberian Union, a personal union that would last for sixty years, during which time the Portuguese Empire declined, being challenged globally during Dutch-Portuguese War.\n\nThe Cardinal Henry, Sebastian's grand-uncle, became ruler in the immediate wake of Sebastian's death. Henry had served as regent for Sebastian after 1562, and succeeded him as king after the disastrous Battle of Alcácer Quibir in 1578. Henry renounced his clerical offices and sought to take a bride for the continuation of the Aviz dynasty, but Pope Gregory XIII, affiliated with the Habsburgs, did not release him from his vows. The Cardinal-King died two years later, without having appointed a Council of Regency to choose a successor.\n\nPortuguese nobility was worried about the maintenance of their independence and sought help to find a new king. By this time the Portuguese throne was disputed by several claimants. Among them were:\n\n\nThe descendants of the Duchess of Braganza obtained the throne in 1640 (in the person of her grandson John IV of Portugal), but at 1580, she was only one of several possible heirs. The heir by primogeniture was her nephew Ranuccio Farnese, being the son of Catherine's late older sister Maria, followed by his siblings; then the Duchess herself and her children; and only after them, King Philip. Philip II was a foreigner (although his mother was Portuguese) and descended from Manuel I by a female line; as for Anthony, although he was Manuel I's grandson in the male line, he was of illegitimate birth.\n\nThe 11-year-old Ranuccio Farnese, Hereditary Duke of Parma and Piacenza, was the grandson of Infante Duarte of Portugal, the only son of Manuel I whose legitimate descendants survived at that time. Ranuccio was according to primogeniture the heir to the throne of Portugal. However, his father Alessandro Farnese, Duke of Parma was an ally and even a subject of the Spanish king, another contender, so Ranuccio's rights were not very forcibly claimed at that time. Ranuccio became reigning Duke of Parma in 1592.\n\nInstead, Ranuccio's maternal aunt Catherine, Duchess of Braganza, claimed the throne, very ambitiously, but failed. Catherine was married to João I, Duke of Braganza (descendant in male line from Afonso I, Duke of Braganza, an illegitimate son of King John I of Portugal), who himself was grandson of the late Duke Jaime of Braganza, also a legitimate heir of Portugal, being the son of Infanta Isabella, sister of Manuel I and daughter of Infante Ferdinand, Duke of Viseu, second son of King Duarte I. The duchess also had a son, Dom Teodósio de Braganza, who would be her royal heir and successor to the throne. The duchess's claim was relatively strong, as it was reinforced by her husband's position as one of the legitimate heirs; thus they would both be entitled to hold the kingship. Moreover, the Duchess was living in Portugal, not abroad, and was not underage, but 40 years old. Her weaknesses were her sex (Portugal had not had a generally recognized reigning queen) and her being the second daughter, there thus existing a genealogically senior claimant.\n\nAccording to primogeniture, the line of succession of the Portuguese throne would have been:\n\nClaimants following King Henry I's death (1580)\n\nAntónio, Prior of Crato (1531–1595) was a claimant of the Portuguese throne during the 1580 crisis and, according to some historians, King of Portugal (during a short time (38 days) in 1580 in mainland Portugal, and since then until 1583, in the Azores). António was the illegitimate son of Infante Luis (1506–1555), and therefore grandson of King Manuel I. It was precisely because of his illegitimacy that his claim to the throne was weak and considered invalid. Following the death of King Sebastian, Antonio had put forward his own claim, but his pretensions were overlooked in favour of Cardinal Henry. In January 1580, when the Cortes Gerais were assembled in Almeirim to decide upon an heir, the old Cardinal-King Henry died and the Regency of the Kingdom was assumed by a Council of five members.\n\nPhilip II of Spain managed to bring the aristocracy of the kingdom as support to his side. For the aristocracy, a personal union with Spain would prove highly profitable for Portugal at a time when the state finances were suffering. António tried to seduce the people for his cause, comparing the present situation to that of the Crisis of 1385. Then—just as in 1580—the king of Castile had invoked blood descent to inherit the Portuguese throne; and the Master of Aviz (John I), illegitimate son of King Peter I, asserted his right to the throne at the Battle of Aljubarrota, which ended in a victory for John's troops, and in the Cortes of Coimbra in 1385.\n\nOn July 24, 1580, António proclaimed himself King of Portugal in Santarém, followed by acclamation in several locations throughout the country; his domestic government lasted for 20 days, until he was defeated in the Battle of Alcântara by Habsburg armies led by the Duke of Alba. After the fall of Lisbon, he purported to rule the country from Terceira Island, in the Azores, where he established a government in exile until 1583; António even had coins minted—a typical assertion of sovereignty and royalty. Some authors consider him the last monarch of the House of Aviz (instead of Cardinal-King Henry) and the 18th King of Portugal. His government in Terceira island was only recognized in the Azores, whereas on the continent and in the Madeira Islands power was exercised by Philip II, who was acclaimed king in 1580 as Philip I of Portugal and recognized as official king by the Cortes of Tomar in 1581. The new king's election was carried on condition that the kingdom and its overseas territories should remain separate from Spain and keep their own laws and Cortes.\n\nAfter his defeat in the Azores, António went into exile in France—traditional enemy of the Habsburgs—and courted the support of England. An invasion was attempted in 1589 under Sir Francis Drake—leading the so-called English Armada—but ended in failure. António continued to fight until the end of his life for his rights to the throne.\n\nThe matter of whether Portugal was actually invaded by Spain is contested. Philip II had a legitimate claim to the throne, but as with many other dynastic struggles of the age, it was shrouded in controversy. In any case, life was calm and serene under the first two Habsburg kings; they maintained Portugal's status and gave excellent positions to Portuguese nobles in the Spanish Court, and Portugal maintained an independent law, currency and government. It was even proposed to move the Imperial capital to Lisbon. However, Portugal saw its wealth gradually decreasing. Even though it was an autonomous state, Portuguese colonies came under sustained attack from their enemies, especially the Dutch and English.\n\nSixty years after these events, John II, Duke of Braganza (1603–1656) accepted the throne offered by the Portuguese nobility, who had become frustrated under Habsburg rule, becoming John IV of Portugal. He was the grandson of Catherine, Duchess of Braganza, who had in 1580 claimed the Portuguese crown, and son of Teodósio II, Duke of Braganza (who died insane in 1630). John was raised to the throne of Portugal (of which he was then held to be the legitimate heir) during the coup d'etat effected on December 1, 1640 against King Philip IV.\n\nThere were many impostors who claimed to be King Sebastian, variously in 1584, 1585, 1595, and 1598. \"Sebastianism\", the legend that the young king would return to Portugal on a foggy day persisted for years, and was even strong into the 1800s.\n"}
{"id": "2119770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119770", "title": "Lobedu people", "text": "Lobedu people\n\nBalobedu \"(BaLodzwi/Bathobolo)\" is a southern African tribe and an ethnic group of the Northern Sotho group. They were initially known as BaKwebo (wild pigs).The name \"bolobedu\" means place of tribute, go loba/lobela. Hence BaLobedu are people who receive tribute from others.They have their own kingdom, the Balobedu Kingdom, within the Limpopo Province of South Africa with a female ruler, the Rain Queen Modjadji.\n\nThe population of BaLobedu numbers around 2 million. It is estimated that around 30%-40% of Northern Sotho speakers are of Lobedu ethnicity. Their population is distributed in around Mopani and Vhembe regions of Limpopo. Some are found in Gauteng as labour migrants especially in Tembisa and Alexandra townships. The majority of Northern Sotho people living in Tembisa are BaLobedu.\n\nTheir language is known as Lobedu, KheLobedu , which is a \"non-Pedi\" dialect of Northern Sotho. Khelobedu is grammatically similar to other Sotho–Tswana languages. Mutual intelligibility between these TshiVenda dialects and Khelovedu is so high that speakers of these Venda dialects can effectively communicate with Khelobedu speakers without difficulty. A TshiGuvhu speaker can understand a Khelobedu speaker so easily, or vice versa, Khelobedu could easily have been classified as a Venda dialect or an independent language. For example, Northern Sotho and its parent dialect Sepedi have a higher mutual intelligibility with Southern Sotho and Setswana than with Khelobedu.\n\nMost Khelobedu speakers only learn to speak Northern Sotho at school, as such Northern Sotho is only a second or third language and foreign to them like English and Afrikaans. Until recently, Khelobedu existed only in an unwritten form, and the standard Northern Sotho language and orthography was usually used for teaching and writing. As of 2018, a Khelovedu dictionary is being compiled and a specific Khilobedu orthography is also in the process of being developed. \nThere are three sub-groups of the Lobedu:\n\nThe Balobedu originally migrated south from Egypt and present day Zimbabwe to their present location in South Africa. The central tribal village is Khethakoni in the district of Balobedu. These Kalanga migrants consisted of the Mokwebo, who are the ancestors of all wild pig clans (va ana golove/ba bina kolobe) like Mamabolo Ramafalo and Modjadji, the Nengwekhulu, who are ancestors of all elephant clans (Ditlou) and the Ramabulana, ancestors of the other elephant clans (Ditlou), are also uncles of the Nengwekhulus. All BaLobedu are descended from these three groups BaKwebo, Nengwekhulu and Ramabulana. The rest of the people are descendants of East Sotho or BaLaudi refugees and indigenous South Venda groups like BaNgona. As a results the most common animal totems among BaLobedu are the wild pig (Goloe/Kolobe) and the elephant (Dou/Tlou).\n\nThe wild pig clans (Dikolobe) are the Modjadji, Mohale, Modika, Mahasha, Mabulana, Mohale, Mokwebo, Mampeule, Molokwane, Thobela and Ramafalo all this are descendants of the ancient Mokwebo (wild pig) royal house. All Chiefs in Bolobedu are of the wild pig clans with the exception of the chiefs of Taulome who are Dinoko. The elephant clan are Rabothata, Selowa (Khelowa/Tshilowa/Shilowa), Shai, Matlou (Ma₫ou), Mabulana and Maenetja, these are the descendants of the ancient royal house of Nengwekhulu.\n\nThe BaLobedu are more closely related to the Lozwi Kingdom started by Dlembeu. As they were migrating southward, another splinter went South-East. The Northern Lozwi or Lozi are found in the present day Southern province of Zambia. They settled alongside the Zambezi River Banks day establish it as Musioa-thunya (storms that thunders), present day Victoria falls. They have the praise lines Sai/Shai and Dewa, and call themselves the people of Thobela, which is the same as the Lozvi/Kalanga. The rainmaking powers of Queen Modjadji are also synonymous with the Njelele Shrine in SiLozvi (in present-day Matabeleland, Zimbabwe) and it is therefore accepted that there is an intertwining of their history with the rest of the Lozvi. Linguists have listed Lobedu together with Kalanga, Nambya (a dialect of Kalanga), Venda, Lemba, Shankwe, Nyubi and Karanga, as a language of the Lozvi, and consequently connects them to their history. Their rainmaking history is tied to that of the Banyai in northern Matabeleland and. Kalanga in southern Matabeleland ad there re two areas called Njelele in Matabeleland.\n\nBalobedu have their own traditional dances called khekhapa for women and dinaka for men. Dinaka is a traditional dance of all the Northern Sotho speaking people covering such areas as gaSekhukhune, gaDikgale and Bolobedu.\n\nBalobedu have a male initiation ceremony called Moroto. The female initiation ceremony is called Dikhopa.\n\nBalobedu have their own way of praising and talking to their God through Dithugula. They sit next to a traditionally designed circle in their homes and start calling the names of their ancestors.\n\nThe Lobedu have female rulers known as \"Rain Queens\". The queen is believed to have powers to make rain. The Balobedu Kingdom consists of a number of small groups tied together by their queen. On 12 June 2005, Queen Makobo Modjadji died, leaving no clear successor acceptable to all members of the Queen's Council. The late queen's brother has served as regent since then.\n\nThe area of Balobedu consists of around 150 villages and every village has a male or female ruler who represents Modjadji, the rain queen.\n\nThe Rain Queen was historically known as an extremely powerful magician who was able to bring rain to her friends and drought to her enemies. Visitors to the area always brought her gifts and tribute, including cattle and their daughters as wives (though their role is more akin to what those in the West would call ladies-in-waiting), to appease her so that she would bring rain to their regions. The name Lobedu is thought to derive from this practice, referring to the daughters or sisters who were lost to their families. The rain queen extends her influence through her wives, because they link her politically to other families or villages.\n\nThe Rain Queen was referenced in literature as a basis for H. Rider Haggard's novel \"She\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119774", "title": "Felipe López (baseball)", "text": "Felipe López (baseball)\n\nFelipe López (born May 12, 1980) is a Puerto Rican former professional baseball infielder.\n\nIn 1998, López graduated from Lake Brantley High School in Altamonte Springs, Florida where he set school records by hitting .521 with 15 doubles, five triples, seven home runs, 28 runs batted in and 34 stolen bases in his senior year. He was also voted Florida's Player of the Year, was a \"USA Today\" All-USA selection, and was rated by \"Baseball America\" as the best defensive high school shortstop in the country.\n\nLópez was a 1st round pick of the Toronto Blue Jays (8th pick overall) in the 1998 Major League Baseball draft. He made his Major League debut on August 3, 2001, and played second base and shortstop part-time.\n\nOn December 1, 2002, the Blue Jays traded the switch-hitting Lopez as part of a four-team trade with the Cincinnati Reds, Oakland A's, and the Arizona Diamondbacks. The Toronto Blue Jays sent him to the Cincinnati Reds, who sent pitcher Elmer Dessens to the Arizona Diamondbacks. The Diamondbacks sent first baseman Erubiel Durazo to the Oakland Athletics, who, in turn, sent minor league pitcher Jason Arnold to the Blue Jays.\n\nAfter backing up Barry Larkin during the and seasons, López earned the starting job in . López's first season as the Reds' regular shortstop was his breakthrough. He hit 23 home runs and stole 15 bases while compiling a .291 batting average with a .352 on-base percentage. He was selected to the 2005 National League All-Star team.\n\nLópez was traded by the Reds on July 13, 2006, to the Washington Nationals along with Austin Kearns and Ryan Wagner for Gary Majewski, Bill Bray, Royce Clayton, Brendan Harris, and Daryl Thompson, a minor league prospect. In 2006, he tied for the Major League lead in errors at shortstop, with 28, and had the lowest fielding percentage (.954).\n\nWhen first traded to the Nationals, López's original jersey number was 7, however when Damian Jackson was traded, he turned in his number 7 for Jackson's previous jersey number 2.\n\nIn , he had the lowest fielding percentage of all NL shortstops, .957, and often found himself switching between the position of shortstop and second base. This switch was due to the recovery of the Nationals original shortstop, Christian Guzman, who had injured himself in 2005, though he later gave the position back to Lopez after sustaining yet another injury during the 2007 season.\n\nOn April 24, 2008, López hit a grand slam to give Washington a 7–3 lead en route to a 10–5 victory over the Mets. On July 31, 2008, López was released by the Nationals.\n\nLópez was signed by the St. Louis Cardinals on August 5, 2008.\nHe debuted August 6 when the Cardinals played the Los Angeles Dodgers. He played left field and recorded a single in his first at bat, finishing the game 1 for 3. Lopez closed out the season batting .385 with the Cardinals and brought his season average up to .283. He became a free agent at the end of the season.\n\nOn December 12, 2008, López signed with the Arizona Diamondbacks. Lopez hit two home runs in his first two at-bats in his first game with the Diamondbacks, which is the first time that has happened since Richie Sexson in 2005 with the Seattle Mariners. Lopez and teammate Tony Clark were also the first players to hit a home run from both sides of home plate on Opening Day in a 9–8 win over the Colorado Rockies.\n\nLopez hit lead-off for The Diamondbacks, and posted a .305 average through 84 games, as well as 6 Home Runs, 25 RBI, and 44 runs.\n\nOn July 19, the Milwaukee Brewers acquired López in exchange for minor league outfielder Cole Gillespie and pitcher Roque Mercedes. He went 4 for 4 in his debut with the Milwaukee Brewers.\n\nIn 2009, Lopez tied for the Major League lead in errors by a second baseman, with 17.\n\nOn February 27, 2010, López signed a one-year deal with the St. Louis Cardinals. López' base salary will be $1 million plus performance incentives of $1.2 million.\n\nOn April 17, 2010, López started against the New York Mets at shortstop, was moved to third base, and then pitched in the 18th inning of the game. Although the Cardinals eventually lost the game in the 20th inning, López pitched a scoreless inning, giving up only one hit and a walk. He then went on the DL, and came back and took over as the starting third baseman for the Cardinals after David Freese had a season ending foot injury. He eventually became the backup when the Cardinals acquired Pedro Feliz.\n\nOn September 21, 2010, López was released by the St. Louis Cardinals because he wasn't fitting in with the team's focus on younger players.\n\nLópez was claimed by the San Diego Padres, but he rejected the claim to become a free agent and signed with the Boston Red Sox, because he would not feel a part of the team as he would be ineligible for the Padres post-season roster. On September 28 López made his debut with the Red Sox.\n\nOn February 2, 2011, López signed a minor league deal with the Tampa Bay Rays with an invite to spring training. On May 3, the Rays designated him for assignment to make room on the 25-man roster for Evan Longoria coming off the disabled list. He had his contract purchased on May 22 when Reid Brignac was placed on the bereavement list.\n\nOn June 12, 2011, López was designated for assignment again when Elliot Johnson was activated from the 15-day disabled list.\n\nLopez was traded back to the Milwaukee Brewers on July 28, 2011, for cash considerations. On August 21, after recording a .182 batting average in 51 plate appearances for Milwaukee, he was designated for assignment. After the 2011 season, he elected for free agency.\n\n\n, CPBL\n"}
{"id": "2119776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119776", "title": "The Broadwalk Centre", "text": "The Broadwalk Centre\n\nThe Broadwalk Centre is a shopping centre located in the town of Edgware, Greater London, and is owned by Scottish Widows Investment Partnership (SWIP), having been purchased from The Carlyle Group and Bride Hall Holdings for £70 million in March 2012. The centre is 190,000 sq ft in area and was opened in 1990 at the site of the former Edgware railway station building.\n\nThe Broadwalk Centre is a single-storey shopping centre and holds over 40 retail shops including Sainsbury's, Marks & Spencer Boots, WHSmith, Costa Coffee, and Superdrug, as well as disabled and public toilets and baby changing facilities.\n\nIt was owned by The Mall Fund until 2008. In summer 2013, SWIP announced that it was in pre-application discussions with Barnet Council about a supermarket and cinema extension which could increase the size of the scheme by more than half.\n\nAs of 2020, Broadwalk is tipped for regeneration.\n"}
{"id": "2119777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119777", "title": "Catarina, Duchess of Braganza", "text": "Catarina, Duchess of Braganza\n\nInfanta Catherine of Guimarães, Duchess of Braganza by marriage (; , 18 January 1540 – 15 November 1614) was a Portuguese \"infanta\" (princess) claimant to the throne following the death of King Henry of Portugal in 1580.\n\nShe was the second daughter of Infante Edward, 4th Duke of Guimarães (sixth son of Manuel I of Portugal) and Isabella of Braganza, she was married to John, 6th Duke of Braganza, a descendant of earlier Portuguese monarchs, and head of the most important aristocratic House in Portugal. The duchess had several children, of whom Teodósio of Braganza, was her eldest surviving son.\nWhen King Henry died (1580), Edward's issue were the only surviving legitimate heirs of any of the sons of King Manuel I of Portugal. As the male line is preferred in Portuguese succession before the female one, descendants of Manuel I's daughters (such as king Philip II of Spain) had, in principle, only a weaker claim to the throne than Edward's descendants, to whom Catherine belonged.\n\nFollowing this principle, the first in line to the throne would have been Catherine's nephew Ranuccio I Farnese of Parma, as that 11-year-old Italian boy was the heir of her elder sister Maria of Guimarães. Catherine was an ambitious, cunning and power-hungry woman who participated in court intrigues, hoping to become the ruler of Portugal and reinforce the position of the House of Braganza as the most powerful noble family in the Iberian Peninsula.\n\nHer cousin, King Philip II of Spain, used his descent as son of Infanta Isabella, eldest daughter of king Manuel I. Her other cousin Anthony, Prior of Crato was a male, though illegitimate. Anthony had already in 1578 claimed the throne.\n\nCatherine had married the Duke of Braganza, John, who himself as a grandson of the late James, Duke of Braganza, was a legitimate heir of Portugal. The Duchess' son, Teodósio of Braganza, would have been their royal heir and successor to the throne.\n\nThe duchess's claim was relatively strong, as it was reinforced by her husband's position as one of the legitimate heirs; thus they would both be entitled to hold the kingship. Her claim was also strengthened by the fact that she was living in Portugal, and was a mature woman of forty. However, Portugal had not yet had a generally recognized queen regnant, but only males on the throne. Moreover, she was a younger daughter, thus there was a genealogically senior claimant, her nephew Ranuccio.\n\nPhilip II of Spain tried to bribe Catherine's husband, the Duke of Braganza, to abandon his wife's pretensions, offering him the Vice-Kingdom of Brazil, the post of Grand-Master of the Order of Christ, a license to send a personal ship to India every year, and the marriage of one of his daughters to Diego, Prince of Asturias, Philip's heir at that time. The Duke of Braganza, influenced by Catherine, refused the proposal.\n\nShe failed in the struggle: the strongest claimant was her cousin Philip II of Spain who wanted to unite Portugal in a personal union with the other Spanish kingdoms under himself. The nationalist party, those who desired Portugal to remain independent, supported her illegitimate cousin Anthony of Crato, not Catherine. Anthony lost the final competition to Philip in the Battle of Alcântara in 1580.\n\nIn a couple of years, she lost her husband John of Braganza (1543–1583). She lived on as a widowed lady under the rule of her Castilian cousin and worked hard to pave the way for her descendants to take the Portuguese throne, which finally happened in 1640.\n\nIn 1640, Catherine's grandson and direct heir, the then Duke of Braganza, became King John IV of Portugal. The Duchess was then retrospectively acknowledged as the legitimate heir, as result of her descendants obtaining the throne, although in her own lifetime she was only one of several possible heirs. By the unanimous voice of the people John was raised to the throne of Portugal during the revolution effected on December 1, 1640 against the Spanish king, Philip IV.\n\nCatherine and her husband had the following children:\n"}
{"id": "2119778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119778", "title": "Steve Bennett", "text": "Steve Bennett\n\nSteve or Stephen Bennett may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119788", "title": "Zaghouan", "text": "Zaghouan\n\nZaghwan (or Zaghouan; \"\") is a town in the northern half of Tunisia.\nSituated on a low ridge of the Dorsale Mountains, the town has a mild climate and presents a green aspect. Cold water from here was taken by aqueduct to Carthage. The town is famous for its roses, originally cultivated by Muslim refugees from Spain in the seventeenth century. The town is located around 100 km due south of Tunis and around 50 km inland (west) from the Gulf of Hammamet and has an estimated population of around 20,837 (2014). It is the capital of the Zaghouan Governorate.\n\nOn the mountain south of the city is the Roman Water Temple Djebel Zaghouan (Temple de Eaux), source of an aqueduct which used to take water to the city of Carthage over 100 km away. The ruins here are illustrated in Fisher's Drawing Room Scrap Book, 1840, as 'Temple and Fountain of Zagwhan', the subject of a poem by Letitia Elizabeth Landon.\n\nZagwan is the presumed site of the Ancient city of Zica, which was among the many of sufficient importance in the Roman province of Africa Proconsularis to become a suffragan diocese of the Metropolitan of Carthage, in the papal sway, yet was to fade completely, probably at the seventh century advent of Islam.\n\nIts historically documented bishops were :\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119801", "title": "United States at the 2006 Winter Olympics", "text": "United States at the 2006 Winter Olympics\n\nThe United States Olympic Committee (abbreviated USOC) sent 204 athletes to the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy. Chris Witty, a four-time Olympian, who competed in both Summer and Winter games, and won a gold medal in speed skating at the 2002 Games, served as the flag bearer at the opening ceremonies. Speed skater Joey Cheek, who won gold in the 500 m and silver in the 1000 m, was the flag bearer at the closing ceremonies. One athlete, Sarah Konrad, became the first American woman to compete in two different disciplines at the same Winter Olympics – biathlon and cross-country skiing.\n\nWhile the United States' total medal count was down from the 2002 Winter Olympics, there were many highlights to the Games. Pete Fenson led the U.S. Curling team to a bronze medal, their first curling medal ever won. Speed skater Shani Davis became the first athlete of African descent from any country to win an individual gold medal. He won gold in the 1,000 m and followed that with a silver medal in the 1,500 m. Ice dancers Tanith Belbin and Benjamin Agosto won America's first figure skating ice dancing medal in 30 years.\n\nThe following U.S. competitors won medals at the games. In the by discipline sections below, medalists' names are bolded. \n\nThe American alpine ski team fell short of its self-proclaimed goal of eight medals, earning only two in Turin, both gold. Bode Miller, who won two gold medals at the 2005 World Championships, failed to medal in Turin, but the men's team still earned a gold medal, as Ted Ligety took a surprise victory in the combined. The other medal came from Julia Mancuso, who put together two strong runs to win the women's giant slalom.\n\nThe top finish from the U.S. biathlon team came from Jay Hakkinen, who was 10th in the men's individual event.\n\n\nShauna Rohbock and Valerie Fleming, bronze medalists at the 2005 World Championships, had four strong runs to earn the United States' only bobsleigh medal in Turin.\n\nTwo skiers, Kikkan Randall and Leif-Orin Zimmermann, were suspended due to health reasons for the first five days of competition after showing abnormally high values of hemoglobin in their blood. Randall eventually was cleared to compete, participating in the women's relay and finishing 53rd in the 10 kilometre classical race.\n\n\n\nIn the men's event, Pete Fenson, who led his team to 4th place at the a 2006 World Championships, started inconsistently, with a 2–2 record that included a win over the defending gold medalists from Norway. A stretch of four straight wins, however, guaranteed them a spot in the medal round going into a final round-robin game with Canada. The Americans lost that game, meaning they would face Canada again in the semifinals. They also lost this second meeting, but recovered to win the United States' first ever curling medal by beating Great Britain 8–6 in the bronze medal game.\n\nOn the women's side, Cassandra Johnson, the 2005 World Championship silver medalist, struggled winning only two games and finishing well short of the mark needed to make the medal round.\n\n\n\n\"Monday, February 13, 9:00\"\n\n\"Tuesday, February 14, 14:00\"\n\n\"Thursday, February 16, 14:00\"\n\n\"Saturday, February 18, 14:00\"\n\n\"Monday, February 20, 14:00\"\n\"Monday, February 13, 19:00\"\n\n\"Wednesday, February 15, 19:00\"\n\n\"Friday, February 17, 19:00\"\n\n\"Sunday, February 19, 9:00\"\n\n\"Wednesday, February 22, 19:00\"\n\n\"Friday, February 24, 13:00\"\n\n\n\"Monday, February 13, 14:00\"\n\n\"Tuesday, February 14, 19:00\"\n\n\"Thursday, February 16, 19:00\"\n\n\"Saturday, February 18, 19:00\"\n\n\"Monday, February 20, 19:00\"\n\"Tuesday, February 14, 9:00\"\n\n\"Wednesday, February 15, 14:00\"\n\n\"Friday, February 17, 14:00\"\n\n\"Sunday, February 19, 14:00\"\n\nKey: The hammer indicates which team had the last stone in the first end.\n\nThe American figure skating team won two medals in Turin, both silver. Sasha Cohen led the ladies' singles event after the short program, but an early fall in the free skate left her in second place. In the ice dance, the team of Tanith Belbin and Benjamin Agosto sat just sixth after the compulsory dance, but moved up the standings in the original dance, claiming the second silver medal. Michelle Kwan, an Olympic medalist in Nagano and Salt Lake, planned to compete in Turin, but pulled out due to a severe groin strain. Emily Hughes competed in place of Kwan.\n\nThe American freestyle skiing team in Turin boasted several medalists from previous Olympics, including 1998 aerials gold medalist Eric Bergoust. Two other skiers had won gold medals at the World Championships, Jeremy Bloom and Hannah Kearney. Despite this strong roster, the U.S. team won just a single medal in Turin, as Toby Dawson rose from 6th place in qualification to take bronze in the men's moguls. Kearney's failure to even advance from the qualifiers in the women's moguls was considering one of the team's disappointing performances.\n\nThe U.S. men's team, which won a silver medal on home ice in Salt Lake City, had a poor start when they suffered a surprising 3–3 tie against Latvia. They did rebound with a win over Kazakhstan, but further losses to Slovakia, Sweden and Russia meant that the Americans finished fourth in their group, with the lowest point total of any team advancing to the medal round. In their quarterfinal against undefeated Finland, the Americans quickly fell behind 2–0, but managed to tie the game early in the second period. However, the Finns again took a two-goal lead later in the second, and while the Americans managed to score once more, they could not get closer than a 4–3 loss.\n\nThe women's team, also defending silver medalists, had a very strong round-robin showing, winning their three games by a combined score of 18–3. In the semifinals, the U.S. team played Sweden, with the Americans taking a 2–0 lead early in the second period. However, the Swedes then rallied, scoring twice to tie the game, and holding off the American attack and forcing a shootout to decide the game. Swedish goaltender Kim Martin stopped four American shooters, while Pernilla Winberg and Maria Rooth scored for Sweden. The American women bounced back from this loss in the bronze medal game, beating Finland 4–0.\n\n\n\nTony Benshoof was in position to win America's first singles luge medal after the first two runs, but two slower efforts on the final two runs left him in fourth place. Courtney Zablocki had a similar story in the women's event, with a pair of slow runs dropping her well off the medal pace after being in contention for bronze early.\n\n\nTodd Lodwick, who had the United States' best Nordic combined performance in Olympic history in Salt Lake City, finished in the top 10 in both individual events, with his 8th place in the Individual Gundersen the best showing for the U.S. in Turin.\n\nApolo Anton Ohno became the fourth US Winter Olympian to win three medals in a single games, taking gold in the 500 metres to go with two bronze medals. The only other American to make an 'A-Final' in Turin was Rusty Smith, who set an Olympic record time in the quarterfinals of the 1000 metres, but ended up fourth in the final.\n\nZach Lund, considered the U.S.'s primary medal threat in the skeleton events, did not compete in the games after testing positive for finasteride. Lund contested the test at the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS), but had his claim rejected. His ban was reduced from two years to one, but this still left in ineligible in Turin. In Lund's absence, the best finishes were a pair of 6ths, from Eric Bernotas and Katie Uhlaender in the men's and women's events, respectively.\n\nNo American ski jumper qualified for a final jump in Turin, though Alan Alborn advanced to the first round in both the large and normal hill events.\n\nThe United States was the dominant nation in the Snowboarding events in Turin. The U.S. won seven medals, easily the most of any country, including three golds, from Shaun White and Hannah Teter in the men's and women's halfpipe and from Seth Wescott in men's snowboard cross. Lindsey Jacobellis was poised to give the Americans a fourth gold medal in the women's snowboard cross, but fell on the final hill while attempting a grab, was passed, and ended up with silver.\n\nThree American men combined to win seven medals in Turin. This included three for Chad Hedrick, who entered the Games attempting to equal Eric Heiden's record of five gold medals. Hedrick won his first event, the 5000 metres, but when the men's pursuit team lost to Italy, his chances were dashed. He did not manage a second gold, but did win a silver and a bronze. Hedrick was the source of some controversy when he called out teammate Shani Davis, who skipped the team pursuit in order to prepare for his specialty, the 1000 metres. Davis won this event to become the first ever Winter Olympic individual gold medalist of African descent. The third medalist was Joey Cheek, who won gold in the 500 metres, and was chosen to carry the U.S. flag in the closing ceremonies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119818", "title": "Orson Spencer", "text": "Orson Spencer\n\nOrson Cornelius Spencer (March 14, 1802 – October 15, 1855) was a prolific writer and prominent member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He served in several highly visible positions within the church and left an extensive legacy of theological writings. Orson Spencer is one of the examples William Mulder cites of highly educated people becoming Mormons during the time of Joseph Smith\n\nBorn in West Stockbridge, Berkshire County, Massachusetts, Spencer was generally esteemed a bright boy. At age twelve he contracted a fever that nearly killed him and left him with a permanent limp. At age fifteen, the town sheriff was so struck by him that he offered to finance Spencer's education. That same year he entered Lenox Academy. In 1824, Spencer graduated with honors from Union College at Schenectady, New York.\n\nIn 1825 Spencer took a job as a school teacher in Washington, Wilkes County, Georgia. While in Georgia he also began the study of law.\n\nIn 1827, Spencer joined the Baptist church and decided to become a pastor. He attended the theological college at Hamilton, New York (now known as Colgate University), and graduated as class valedictorian in 1829. Spencer served as pastor at three throughout New England between 1829 and 1841.\n\nSpencer was introduced to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by his brother Daniel and was baptized by the same in spring 1841, necessitating the discontinuation of Orson's Baptist ministry. During his time of investigating the faith, Spencer obtained as much information as he could about Solomon Spalding and other items that called into question the divine origin of the \"Book of Mormon\", but he was still convinced of its truthfulness by reading it.\n\nNews of Spencer's conversion reached many of his Baptist colleagues. Reverend William Crowell sent a letter inquiring about his conversion and the Mormon faith in general. Spencer's responses to this and other epistles were published and remain of interest to many Latter-day Saints today.\n\nShortly after his conversion, Spencer and his family moved to Nauvoo, Illinois. Spencer served as the head of the University of Nauvoo. He also served as an alderman in Nauvoo. In April 1843 Spencer was sent on a mission to New Haven, Connecticut.\n\nSpencer was elected mayor of Nauvoo in 1845, but he appears to not have served due to the revocation of the city charter. He would have succeeded his brother Daniel Spencer in this office. Prior to this he served as an alderman of the city of Nauvoo. As such he also served as a member of Nauvoo's municipal court. After the Nauvoo Charter was revoked Spencer served as an alderman of the much smaller town of Nauvoo.\n\nSpencer served as president of the British Mission from early 1847 until the summer of 1848. During that time he also served as editor and publisher of the \"Millennial Star\". In 1848 he was replaced by Orson Pratt, who found that the mission had had much success under Spencer's administration.\n\nSpencer was the president of one of the five Mormon pioneer companies in 1849. This company consisted of about 100 wagons. In 1850, when the \"Deseret News\" began publication in Salt Lake City, Spencer served as assistant editor under Willard Richards.\n\nSpencer was a member of the first legislative council of Utah Territory.\n\nOn August 28, 1852, Brigham Young commissioned Spencer to travel, together with Jacob Houtz, to Prussia. After reaching Berlin in late January 1853, he and his companion discovered that every step they took was observed by the Prussian secret police. After only one week, at the command of Karl Otto von Raumer - Secretary of Cultural Affairs -, Spencer and Houtz were forced by the police to leave Berlin without having had any visible missionary success. They were the first Mormon missionaries to preach in Germany since Orson Hyde's visit in 1841.\n\nSpencer served as an editor and writer on many newspapers from his conversion and was named the first chancellor of the University of Deseret in 1850.\n\nSpencer went on a mission to Cincinnati in 1854. After being there a year he went to St. Louis where he replaced Erastus Snow as the regional church leader and editor of the \"St. Louis Luminary\". He shortly afterward went on a mission to the Cherokee Nation, during which he contracted malaria. He then returned to St. Louis where he succumbed to this disease, passing away on October 15, 1855 at the age of 53.\n\nSpencer's writings were an influential force in the formation of 19th-century Latter-day Saint theology. His statements about God the Father having a distinct place of dwelling but spreading forth his presence through the Holy Ghost were among the leading exposisitons of this Latter-day Saint view in the 1840s.\n\nSpencer's first wife was Catharine Curtis. They had eight children. She died in 1846 in Iowa. While presiding over the British Mission, Spencer married Martha Knight. He later also married Eliza Ann Dibble, Margaret Miller, Jane T. Davis and Mary Hill as plural wives.\n\nIn 1855, shortly after his death, Spencer's daughter Catherine Curtis Spencer (named after her mother) married [[Brigham Young, Jr.]]\nSpencer was the father of [[Aurelia Spencer Rogers]], who in 1878 founded the [[Primary (LDS Church)|Primary Association]], the official organization of the LDS Church for children.\n\nA collection of his letters entitled \"Spencer's Letters\" was among the items placed in the [[Coping (architecture)|capstone]] of the [[Salt Lake Temple]].\n\n\n\n[[Category:1802 births]]\n[[Category:1855 deaths]]\n[[Category:19th-century Mormon missionaries]]\n[[Category:American Mormon missionaries in the United States]]\n[[Category:Colgate University alumni]]\n[[Category:Converts to Mormonism]]\n[[Category:American Latter Day Saint writers]]\n[[Category:Members of the Council of Fifty]]\n[[Category:Mission presidents (LDS Church)]]\n[[Category:American Mormon missionaries in Germany]]\n[[Category:American Mormon missionaries in the United Kingdom]]\n[[Category:Mormon pioneers]]\n[[Category:People from West Stockbridge, Massachusetts]]\n[[Category:Presidents of the University of Utah]]\n[[Category:Union College (New York) alumni]]\n[[Category:University of Utah faculty]]\n[[Category:Nauvoo, Illinois city council members]]\n[[Category:American leaders of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints]]\n[[Category:Latter Day Saints from Massachusetts]]\n[[Category:Latter Day Saints from New York (state)]]\n[[Category:Latter Day Saints from Illinois]]\n[[Category:Latter Day Saints from Utah]]\n[[Category:Members of the Utah Territorial Legislature]]\n[[Category:19th-century American politicians]]"}
{"id": "2119828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119828", "title": "Coventry Airport", "text": "Coventry Airport\n\nCoventry Airport is located south-southeast of Coventry city centre, in the village of Baginton, Warwickshire, England. The airport is operated by Coventry Airport Limited, and has a CAA Ordinary Licence (Number P902) that allows flights for the public transport of passengers or for flying instruction as authorised by the licensee, Coventry Airport Limited.\n\nSince October 2017, Coventry Airport has been undergoing transition to a general aviation aerodrome offering a flight information service.\n\nFirst opened in 1936 as Baginton Aerodrome, Coventry Airport has been used for general aviation, flight training, and commercial freight and passenger flights, as well as being a World War II fighter airfield. In 1994-5, it became a focus for animal rights campaigners who protested at the export of live animals from the airport as freight. In 1982, Pope John Paul II celebrated Mass with a crowd of around 350,000 on his only UK visit. From 2004 to 2008, Thomsonfly operated scheduled jet passenger flights from temporary hub facilities at Coventry. A controversial plan to build permanent passenger terminal facilities was rejected by the High Court in 2007. Following financial problems, the airport was briefly closed in 2009, before re-opening as a commercial airport in 2010.\n\nIn 1933 Coventry City Council decided to develop a civil airport on land that it owned to the south-east of the city in Baginton. Coventry Airport was opened in 1936. Armstrong Whitworth, an aircraft manufacturer based nearby at Whitley Aerodrome, built an aircraft factory on the airport site soon afterwards.\n\nDuring the Second World War the airport was used as a fighter station, RAF Baginton, by the Royal Air Force. It was damaged in the 1940 Coventry Blitz bombing raid by the Luftwaffe.\n\nThe following units were here at some point:\n\nAfter the war the airport was returned to civil use as a passenger and freight terminal. In the 1950s Jersey Airlines operated de Havilland Heron and Douglas DC-3 aircraft on services to the Channel Islands. In the 1960s British United Airways flew DC-3s, Aviation Traders Carvairs (which also carried passengers' cars) and Handley Page Dart Heralds to the Channel Islands. During the 1980s West Midlands based travel agents Hards Travel started using the Airport with its Vickers Viscount and Dart Herald aircraft for holidays to Spain, Italy and Austria, flying to Beauvais in France and Ostend Airport, operating under the Janus Airways banner. The holiday brands used were Summer-Plan, and HTS Holidays.\nIn the late 1980s, Coventry City Council sold the airport lease to Air Atlantique.\n\nPope John Paul II visited the airport on 30 May 1982 as part of his six-day visit to Britain. He arrived in a gold and blue British Caledonian helicopter, and just after 10.00 a.m. he set off in a popemobile from the helipad to visit a crowd of about 350,000 people. He celebrated Mass and administered the sacrament of confirmation, and there was a carnival when he had lunch. He left in the helicopter at about 3.15 p.m.\n\nFrom 5 November 1994 to 4 May 1995 live veal calves were exported from Coventry Airport to Amsterdam for distribution across Europe, and the locality became a focus for animal rights demonstrators. On 21 December 1994 Air Algérie Flight 702P, a Boeing 737, used for exporting calves crashed in Willenhall Wood, Willenhall, Coventry near to houses, on approach to the airport in bad weather, all five people on board were killed. The aircraft was owned by Air Algerie and on lease to Phoenix Aviation. On 1 February 1995, Jill Phipps, an animal rights activist aged 31 years, was crushed to death under the wheels of a lorry carrying live veal calves into Coventry Airport.\n\nIn February 2004 the airport lease was sold to TUI AG, which started scheduled international flights from a temporary passenger terminal building in March 2004 under the brand Thomsonfly using two Boeing 737s. The operation drew vociferous opposition from environmental campaigners, some local residents and Warwick District Council, but was supported by Coventry City Council. Warwick District Council unsuccessfully sought an injunction to stop flights, claiming that the temporary facilities were built without planning permission. Flights expanded through the following years, while the airport sought planning permission for a permanent passenger terminal and facilities. Thomsonfly expanded operations with more European flights and up to six aircraft based at the airport, while WizzAir also began regular flights to Poland.\n\nAfter planning permission for a permanent passenger terminal was initially denied by Warwick District Council in 2004, two public inquiries took place, followed by an unsuccessful appeal by the airport owners to the UK government planning inspectorate, and finally to the High Court in 2008. The planning battle affected the confidence of flight operators. On 1 September 2008, Wizz Air confirmed it would not continue its seasonal service from Coventry to Gdańsk and Katowice. On 15 October 2008, Thomsonfly confirmed that it would cease operations at Coventry Airport, citing its increased focus on charter services after its merger with First Choice Airways. Scheduled passenger flights from Coventry ended on 9 November 2008. The airport continued with cargo operations, and was a base for executive jet services, general aviation and flight training, and the Warwickshire and Northamptonshire Air Ambulance.\n\nIn May 2009, Coventry Airport was put up for sale. The owners outsourced security, and also air traffic control to Marshall Aerospace. On 1 December 2009, it was reported that a petition was made by HM Revenue & Customs in the High Court to wind up the company, to the concern of local businesses. A hearing was due to take place at London's Royal Courts of Justice on Wednesday, 9 December 2009. On 8 December 2009, the CAA closed the airport with immediate effect, issuing a Notice to Airmen announcing the withdrawing of its operating licence. All commercial flying and flight training was suspended, although the Warwickshire & Northamptonshire Air Ambulance continued to use the airport as a base. The airport re-opened as an unlicensed airfield the following week, without air traffic control, to private traffic.\n\nA Swiss firm announced its interest in acquiring the airport in early 2010, but did not conclude a bid. Sir Peter Rigby's Patriot Aviation group took over ownership of Coventry Airport on 28 April, and it was fully re-opened in summer 2010. As of June 2010, Air Traffic Control services at Coventry have been provided by SERCO.\n\nAs part of Pope Benedict XVI's planned visit to Britain in September 2010 it was announced that the centrepiece of the visit, the Beatification of Cardinal John Henry Newman, would take place on 19 September at the airport, following the success of the 1982 visit of Pope John Paul II. However, it was subsequently announced in June 2010 that the preferred venue had changed to the smaller Cofton Park, in Birmingham.\n\nHong Kong's TVB filmed flight training scenes for its series \"Triumph in the Skies II\" at the airport using facilities and aircraft owned by Aeros Flight Training.\n\nChannel 5 TV's \"Borderline\" Season 1 was filmed in March/April 2016 with Coventry Airport being turned into \"Northend Airport\" for the show.\n\nAs of January 2018, there are no public scheduled or charter operations available at Coventry Airport.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119835", "title": "Cherry, Harry &amp; Raquel!", "text": "Cherry, Harry &amp; Raquel!\n\nCherry, Harry & Raquel! is a 1970 American Action film and softcore exploitation film produced and directed by American film director Russ Meyer.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Vixen!\" (1968), the film is notable for the first appearance of actor (and Meyer regular) Charles Napier playing Harry Thompson, a California border sheriff and marijuana smuggler who makes a reappearance in 1975's \"Supervixens\".\n\nNapier's nude scene with Larissa Ely, where they run in the desert, is the first instance of full frontal male nudity in a Meyer picture. The appearance of a penis in a movie in 1970 was still a novelty, and was reported on by the Associated Press after the movie was released and became a hit.\n\nUschi Digard, who would also go on to make frequent appearances in Meyer's films, was cast as the naked muse of the Apache character. Shown in cut scenes usually wearing only an Apache headdress, this plot device was necessitated after the lead actress left the shoot early and there was 20 minutes of footage needed to complete the film.\n\nThe film begins with a monotone narration about the developing evil of marijuana in modern society and the need for vigilance in stopping the actions of the \"pushers\" and the \"smugglers.\"\n\nHarry, a small town border sheriff, lives at the site of a defunct silver mine with his girlfriend Cherry, an Englishwoman who works as a nurse. The blonde Raquel is a writer and works to sexually pleasure the local men for the enjoyment of it. Cherry and Raquel are intrigued with meeting each other, but Harry prevents this meeting as he feels that the idea of two women having sex is \"un-American.\"\n\nHarry and his Mexican-American associate Enrique, work for local politician Mr. Franklin, in an operation in which they divert marijuana through the border. Mr. Franklin informs Harry that their associate \"Apache\" has gone into business for himself and must be killed. Harry summons Enrique, who is in bed with Raquel, and they go to the desert to look for Apache in order to carry out their plan. They fail and Apache gets away and manages to steal Harry's jeep.\n\nFrustrated with repeated failures to kill Apache, Mr. Franklin calls Harry to tell him he is taking too long and that now Enrique also needs to be killed because he knows too much. They set Enrique up to deliver drugs to the mine where Harry will kill him. En route to the mine, however, Enrique is killed in the desert by Apache who brutally runs him down with Harry's jeep. When Raquel arrives at the hospital where Mr. Franklin is staying to sexually service him, she finds he also has been murdered by Apache.\n\nRaquel is in the hospital recovering from the shock of finding Mr. Franklin dead. Her assigned care nurse turns out to be Cherry. When Cherry enters her room for nursing duties, Raquel produces a small case containing marijuana cigarettes. They share a couple of joints, then dance naked together and have a sexual experience.\n\nMeanwhile, Harry is alone at the mine, still waiting for Enrique. Apache shows up instead, driving up in Harry's jeep and taunting him with the horn. Harry comes out shooting and they trade multiple gunshots. Finally, after each having been shot several times, Harry drops dead and Apache falls dead on top of him while Cherry and Raquel continue to have sex in the hospital.\n\nRoger Ebert claimed that after filming was completed, the De Luxe color lab inadvertently destroyed a fourth of Meyer's footage, requiring Meyer to shoot new scenes. He hired Ushi to appear in some new footage as an Indian and intercut it with the existing footage. According to Ebert, \"The result is that audiences don't even realize anything is missing; a close analysis might reveal some cavernous gaps in the plot, and it is a little hard to figure out exactly how (or if) all the characters know each other, but Meyer's subjective scenes are so inventive and his editing so confident that he simply sweeps the audience right along with him. \"Cherry, harry and raquel\" is possibly the only narrative film ever made without a narrative.\" \n\nMeyer denied that the lab lost footage but admitted to shooting new sequences. He recalled \"one of the leading ladies couldn't stand the rigors of Panament Valley [the location of the film]. She had a couple of pomeranians, and she would lock them inside all day, and they would just devastate the room. We had a real redneck hotel owner, who was drunk all the time-like Chill Wills, only fatter-and he'd yell about her \"goddam dogs.\" She took such offense - the very idea this man would object to her dogs using the rug. Finally about nine day before we finished, she said, \"I've had it. I'm going home\".\"\n\nThe film had to be reshot. \"The picture's better because of her leaving,\" said Meyer. \"We had to really reach for another ending. She went and you just never saw her again.\" \nIn 1980 Meyer said \"The picture is the most successful film I have on cable television-or hotel-vision-because you never have to come in at the beginning. It doesn't matter. It could be a loop.\"\n\nThe \"New York Times\" called it \"a rotten film. Its story... bleeds towards the edges like red pajamas being washed for the first time... Yet the celluloid stinks with hard vitality.\"\n\n\"The Lost Angeles Times\" called it \"lots of fun\".\n"}
{"id": "2119841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119841", "title": "Paul Buckmaster", "text": "Paul Buckmaster\n\nPaul John Buckmaster (13 June 1946 – 7 November 2017) was a Grammy Award-winning British cellist, arranger, conductor and composer.\n\nHe is best known for his orchestral collaborations with David Bowie, Shawn Phillips, Elton John, Harry Nilsson, The Rolling Stones, Carly Simon, Leonard Cohen, Miles Davis, and the Grateful Dead in the 1970s, followed by his contributions to the recordings of many other artists, including Stevie Nicks, Lionel Richie, Celine Dion, Carrie Underwood, Kenny Rogers, Guns N’ Roses, Taylor Swift, Train, and Heart.\n\nPaul Buckmaster was born in London on 13 June 1946. His father, John, was a British-born actor, and his mother, Ermenegilda Maltese, was a concert pianist and a graduate of the Naples Conservatory of Music.\n\nAt age four, Buckmaster started attending a small private school in London called the London Violoncello School, and continued studying cello under several private teachers until he was ten. In 1957, his mother took him and his two siblings to Naples, where he auditioned with cello professor Willy La Volpe, to be assessed as eligible for a scholarship. From 1958 to 1962 he divided his time between studying music in Naples and working for his GCEs in London, then won a scholarship to study the cello at the Royal Academy of Music, from which he graduated with a performance diploma in 1967.\n\nBuckmaster displayed professional mastery as a cellist. However, he soon started his career as an orchestral arranger on various hit songs, including David Bowie's \"Space Oddity\" (1969), and contributed orchestral collaborations on a number of early albums by Elton John (1969–72), as well as on the songs \"Sway\" and \"Moonlight Mile\" on The Rolling Stones' album \"Sticky Fingers\" (1971). Buckmaster contributed string and horn arrangements to Leonard Cohen's 1971 album, \"Songs of Love and Hate\".\nBuckmaster also helped Miles Davis with the preparation of \"On the Corner\" (1972). He wrote the arrangements for the studio sessions, in which he also participated, at Davis' request, by humming bass lines and rhythms to lead the musicians. The arrangements he wrote were often used as a starting point to be transformed until what was being played bore no resemblance to what he had written. This was in keeping with the Stockhausian approach that Buckmaster had been discussing with Davis in the weeks leading up to the session.\n\nBuckmaster also played with Bowie and his band in the recordings for the original soundtrack to the science fiction film \"The Man Who Fell to Earth\", in which Bowie starred as Thomas Jerome Newton. Buckmaster himself told in the book \"60 Years of Bowie\" that he had played cello on the original soundtrack recordings, on which Carlos Alomar, J. Peter Robinson and others were also included.\nBuckmaster: \"There were a couple of medium tempo rock instrumental pieces, with simple motifs and rifly kind of grooves, with a line-up of David's rhythm section (Carlos Alomar et al.) plus J. Peter Robinson on Fender Rhodes and me on cello and some synth overdubs, using ARP Odyssey and Solina. There was also a piece I wrote and performed using some beautifully made mbiras (African thumb pianos) I had purchased earlier that year, plus cello, all done by multiple overdubbing.\" Later film-director Nicolas Roeg decided not to use the recordings but existing songs as soundtrack for the movie.\n\nBuckmaster also wrote some instrumental tracks for the 1974 Harry Nilsson film \"Son of Dracula.\"\n\nIn 1995 Buckmaster composed, orchestrated, conducted and produced the original score to Terry Gilliam's \"12 Monkeys\", a science fiction movie starring Bruce Willis, Madeleine Stowe and Brad Pitt.\n\nBuckmaster wrote the score for the 1997 film \"Most Wanted\", starring Keenen Ivory Wayans (who also wrote the film) and Jon Voight. Its soundtrack was released by Milan Records on 14 October 1997.\n\nBuckmaster won the 2002 Grammy Award for Best Instrumental Arrangement Accompanying Vocalist(s) for \"Drops of Jupiter\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2119845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119845", "title": "Minoru Tanaka (wrestler)", "text": "Minoru Tanaka (wrestler)\n\nMinoru Tanaka was originally a shootboxer. He started his career as a wrestler in Fujiwara Gumi, trained by its owner, Yoshiaki Fujiwara. In late 1995, Tanaka and everyone else in the promotion abandoned Fujiwara and formed their own promotion, Battlarts, led by Yuki Ishikawa. Despite being a simulated shoot style professional wrestling promotion, Battlarts, like its predecessor, often cooperated with other federations and styles, such as Fighting Network Rings, Kingdom, Michinoku Pro and Big Japan Pro Wrestling. Tanaka's first championship, the UWA World Middleweight Championship (originally based in Mexico and introduced in Japan through Universal Lucha Libre and Michinoku), came in 1996. He later won Frontier Martial Arts Wrestling's Independent World Junior Heavyweight Championship (which was outsourced to Battlarts after Hiromichi Fuyuki abolished all previous FMW titles and replaced them with WEW titles).\n\nTanaka made his New Japan Pro Wrestling debut on April 10, 1999 and would proceed to take part in Best of the Super Juniors in block B. Tanaka would reappear for New Japan in late 1999 to early 2000 before he joined the New Japan roster as a full-time competitor. His natural talent enabled him to immediately rise in the junior heavyweight ranks and win the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship in July with Koji Kanemoto, who used a similar but more ground-oriented style. The Kanemoto-Tanaka combination was reminiscent of the old Akira Maeda-Nobuhiko Takada combination in 1987. In October, Tanaka won the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Championship - thus becoming the first man to hold both junior titles at the same time. In March 2001, Tanaka and Kanemoto lost their titles to El Samurai and Jushin Thunder Liger, in June he lost in the finals of 2001's Best of the Super Juniors to Liger and in July he lost his singles title. Even with all these losses, Tanaka finished 2001 strong, winning the G1 Jr. Six Man Tag Team Tournament Masahito Kakihara and Masayuki Naruse. For a second time in his career, Tanaka held both junior titles, defeating Masahito Kakihara for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Champion and defeating Gedo and Jado with Jushin Thunder Liger for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship. After Koji Kanemoto defeated Tanaka in 2002's Best of the Super Juniors, Kanemoto defeated Tanaka once again for his IWGP Junior Heavyweight Championship, and a month later lost his tag team championship to Tsuyoshi Kikuchi and Yoshinobu Kanemaru.\n\nIn late 2002 Tanaka began wearing a mask and calling himself \"HEAT\" (ヒート) in reference to the Game Boy Advance video game \"Toukon Heat\". In only his second match under the persona, Tanaka faced on Kanemoto in an attempt to regain the title but failed. Like the game, the HEAT character often floundered in his early years with the only positive being his victory of the Naeba Cup Tag Tournament alongside Manabu Nakanishi. Heat finally began to pick up steam in 2003, and defeated Jado in December to become a three-time IWGP Junior Heavyweight Champion. In September 2004, Heat returned to his birth name and reunited with Kanemoto to challenge Gedo and Jado for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship. Before the match could end, however, Minoru turned on Kanemoto and helped Gedo and Jado win, turning heel and joining CTU in the process. Heat's true success came after turning heel, though he competed as both Heat and simply Minoru Tanaka after joining CTU. After losing to Tiger Mask in the semi final of the 2004 Best of the Super Juniors, he found his new rival and defeated Tiger Mask. Their rivalry continued over the year and culminated at where Heat lost his IWGP Junior Heavyweight Championship to Tiger Mask. After this loss, he officially dropped the mask and began wrestling as Minoru Tanaka once again until dropping his surname, calling himself Minoru . He also competed as Masked CTU-J sporadically from this point forward. On May 14, Minoru teamed up with new CTU recruit Hirooki Goto and defeated Koji Kanemoto and Wataru Inoue to become a three-time IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Champion and would lose them to El Samurai and Ryusuke Taguchi in early 2006.\n\nIn 2006, Minoru joined the American Total Nonstop Action Wrestling promotion as a member of Team Japan (consisting of Hirooki Goto, Jushin Thunder Liger, Black Tiger and Minoru), one of the four teams competing in the TNA 2006 World X-Cup Tournament. He debuted in TNA on April 23, 2006 at Lockdown, where he teamed with Hirooki Goto against Team USA members Sonjay Dutt, Jay Lethal and Alex Shelley. Team Japan defeated USA when Black Tiger pinned Lethal. On the April 27 episode of \"Impact!\", Goto and Minoru lost to Dutt and Shelley, giving a first round victory and two points to Team USA.\n\nFollowing his stint in TNA, Minoru managed to find success upon returning to Japan, as he won the 2006 Best of the Super Juniors after defeating Tiger Mask in the finals. Minoru lost his chance at the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Championship in October, but would be granted another one at \"Battle Xmas! Catch the Victory\", where he defeated Koji Kanemoto for the title, making him a four-time IWGP Junior Heavyweight Champion. He would hold the title until he was defeated by Ryusuke Taguchi. After this loss, CTU would take a turn for the worse and eventually disbanded on August 8 where all members would wrestle under their Masked CTU personas.\n\nIn late 2007, after the break up of CTU, some of the former members, which included Prince Devitt, Hirooki Goto and Minoru along with Shinsuke Nakamura, formed the stable RISE. In early 2008, Minoru and Devitt would win the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship. However, they would lose the title not even a month later to members of the Legend stable, AKIRA and Jushin Thunder Liger. Minoru and Devitt defeated AKIRA and Liger in their return match for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship, making the pair two time champions together and Minoru's fifth overall. They lost the titles in October to No Limit (Tetsuya Naito and Yujiro Takahashi). Minoru stayed out of the lime light during late 2008 and early 2009 making him unhappy with his status in the company. Along with Minoru becoming unable to come to terms on a new contract, he left New Japan after nearly a decade with the company January 31, 2009.\n\nAfter leaving New Japan on January 31, 2009, in a shocking move, Tanaka quickly signed with rival promotion All Japan Pro Wrestling in late February and made his presence felt by joining the hated \"VooDoo Murders\" stable, replacing the recently retired brother YASSHI in the group. In his first All Japan pay-per-view, he took on Kaz Hayashi for the World Junior Heavyweight Championship and lost. Moving on from this loss, he teamed up with Toshizo to take part in 2009's AJPW Junior Tag League, where they defeated Kaz Hayashi and Shuji Kondo. After finishing top in Junior League 2009 he was defeated by Super Crazy in the semi finals. In 2010, he participated in that years junior tournaments failing to win any of them but did come close in the Junior League where he lost to Jimmy Yang. In late 2010, he won an All Asia Tag Team Championship contendership tournament with KONO but failed to win the titles on the next night.\n\nOn January 2, 2011, Minoru won the World Junior Heavyweight Championship from Kaz Hayashi. On June 3, 2011, in the aftermath of a backstage fight between Yoshikazu Taru and Nobukazu Hirai, which resulted in Hirai suffering a stroke, All Japan Pro Wrestling disbanded Voodoo Murders, suspended all of its Japanese members, including Minoru, and vacated the World Junior Heavyweight Championship. Minoru was suspended specifically for not attempting to stop Taru's assault on Hirai. Minoru's suspension was lifted on June 30. In October 2011, Minoru began once again wrestling under his full name. In an interview on All Japan's official website, Tanaka explained that by using his full name he wanted to pay tribute to his original home promotion BattlARTS, which closed its doors on November 5, 2011, and where he originally made his breakthrough under his full name.\n\nOn December 21, Tanaka along with Masakatsu Funaki and Masayuki Kono formed the stable Stack of Arms. The stable tried to start of strong by winning the AJPW Junior Tag League 2012, but failed in their attempt, not even getting through the starting stages. From this point, Stack of Arms have feud against Team Destruction (Kaz Hayashi, Shuji Kondo and Suwama). When Koji Kanemoto joined Stack of Arms in October 2012, their fortunes turned around, Kanemoto and Tanaka defeated Kazushi Miyamoto and Tomoaki Honma to win the vacant All Asia Tag Team Championship. On January 26, 2013, Kanemoto and Tanaka, calling themselves Junior Stars but still part of Stack of Arms, lost the titles to Hikaru Sato and Hiroshi Yamato but would regain the title less than a month later. Their second reign ended on April 25, 2013, when they were defeated by Atsushi Aoki and Kotaro Suzuki. In June 2013, Tanaka, along with the rest of Stack of Arms, announced his resignation from All Japan in the aftermath of Nobuo Shiraishi taking over as the promotion's new president. On June 30, Tanaka unsuccessfully challenged Yoshinobu Kanemaru for the World Junior Heavyweight Championship in his final All Japan match.\n\nIn the beginning of 2017, Minoru Tanaka returned to AJPW after three and a half years of being away. As Nobuo Shiraishi had long been gone from the company, his original reason for leaving is gone. He returned on the January 2nd Korakuen and soon announced his participation in the 2017 Junior Battle of Glory. Unfortunately, Tanaka would fail to advance to the final after going 1-2-1 in four matches, only achieving three points but tied with AJPW Junior Champion Keisuke Ishii. He stayed in the company after the tournament, consistently working undercards. On July 17, he challenged fellow shooter Hikaru Sato for his recently-won AJPW Junior Heavyweight Championship but was unsuccessful. Tanaka worked All Japan's 45th Anniversary Show in Sumo Hall on August 27, in a brief all-star tag-team match in the upper mid-card where he, Jun Akiyama, Koji Iwamoto, and Takao Omori got a quick victory. He would not stay much longer after this - his final match came on September 19 in an unsuccessful challenge for Jun Akiyama's GAORA TV Championship. He began working for Pro Wrestling NOAH full-time after this.\n\nOn July 10, 2013, Tanaka was announced as part of Keiji Mutoh's new Wrestle-1 promotion. During the promotion's inaugural event on September 8, Tanaka reunited the Junior Stars with Koji Kanemoto in a tag team match, where they defeated Fujita Hayato and Masaaki Mochizuki. On January 31, 2014, Tanaka celebrated his 20th anniversary in professional wrestling, teaming with Kanemoto and the debuting Jushin Thunder Liger and Yoshiaki Fujiwara in an eight-man tag team main event, where they defeated Desperado (Kazma Sakamoto, Masayuki Kono, René Duprée and Ryoji Sai). In September, Tanaka took part in the Wrestle-1 Championship tournament, where he made it to the second round, before losing to Kai. Through Wrestle-1's working relationship with American promotion Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA), Tanaka worked TNA's Bound for Glory event in Tokyo on October 12, defeating Manik. On December 7, Tanaka defeated Hiroshi Yamato to win the European Wrestling Promotion (EWP) Intercontinental Championship. Later that month, Tanaka traveled to Hannover, Germany to successfully defend the title against Michael Kovac. Through Wrestle-1's relationship with Pro Wrestling Zero1, Tanaka won two more titles on March 1, 2015, when he defeated Jason Lee for the International Junior Heavyweight and NWA World Junior Heavyweight Championships. On May 5, Tanaka won yet another title, when he defeated Kaz Hayashi in the finals of a tournament to become the inaugural Wrestle-1 Cruiser Division Champion. Tanaka lost the first of his four titles on May 16, when Tajiri defeated him for the EWP Intercontinental Championship. He regained the title on May 30 in a match also contested for the Wrestle-1 Cruiser Division Championship. On September 12, Tanaka lost the EWP Intercontinental Championship to Robbie Dynamite in Hannover, Germany. On September 23, Tanaka lost the Wrestle-1 Cruiser Division Championship to Andy Wu in his sixth defense. On October 11, Tanaka lost his final two titles, the Zero1 junior heavyweight championships, to Shinjiro Otani. On January 31, 2016, Tanaka, Kaz Hayashi and Tajiri won the vacant UWA World Trios Championship. On June 28, Tanaka announced he was leaving Wrestle-1 due to his contract with the company expiring. On July 29, Tanaka, Hayashi and Tajiri lost the UWA World Trios Championship to Andy Wu, Daiki Inaba and Seiki Yoshioka in their fifth defense.\n\nTanaka made his first appearance in NOAH after 15 years on September 5, 2017, and called for a shot at the GHC Junior Heavyweight Championship, but first defeated Hitoshi Kumano on October 1. He'd eventually get his shot on December 22, but was defeated by the defending champion Daisuke Harada. On March 11, 2018, he and Yoshinari Ogawa defeated XX (Hi69 and Taiji Ishimori) to win the GHC Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship, but, as Ishimori announced his departure the very next day, Ogawa opted to vacate the titles as he would not accept a title victory over someone focused mentally on leaving rather than focused on the match. This led to a tournament being set up to crown new champions, where Tanaka and new partner Hi69 defeated Ratel's (Hayata (wrestler) and Yo-Hey) in the finals on April 15 to regain the titles. On May 29, the two continued their battle against the stable by successfully defending the titles against Tadasuke and Daisuke Harada. On August 18, they successfully defended the titles by defeating Hayata and Yo-Hey once again. The pair continued their dominating run in a series of matches against some of Tanaka's regular career rivals - on September 2, the duo defeated Ikuto Hidaka and Takuya Sugawara from Zero1, the former of whom came up with Minoru as a rival in Battlearts. On November 25, Minoru and Hi69 won their fourth and final defense of the Junior Tag-Titles, taking on Tanaka's 20-year partner and enemy, Koji Kanemoto, and his partner Hiroshi Yamato. At Great Voyage on December 16, the duo's reign came to an end as they were defeated by The Back Breakers (Hajime Ohara & Hitoshi Kumano). On March 10, 2019, Tanaka finally defeated Harada to win the GHC Junior Heavyweight Championship and complete his wins of the top three junior heavyweight championships in Japan (New Japan's IWGP, Noah's GHC, and All Japan's PWF) as well as Zero1's and Wrestle-1's titles.\n\nIn 2002, Tanaka married former professional wrestler Yumi Fukawa soon after her retirement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119850", "title": "Media Identification Code", "text": "Media Identification Code\n\nThe Media Identification Code (MID) is used on DVD-R, DVD+R and DVD-RAM discs to identify the manufacturer and to assist the DVD burner to select the best write strategy for the inserted media. The technology is inherited from the ATIP code used on CD-R discs.\n\nIf the DVD burner recognizes the discs it means that the disc has been tested by the drive manufacturer to achieve the best possible burn using an optimal write strategy. The strategy is stored in the firmware. Writing to a disc with no MID code or a code that is not recognized can result in inaccurate recording and data read-back problems.\n\nThe following programs can be used to display the contents of the MID\n\n\nUbuntu and other Linux systems have dvd+rw-tools installed by default, which provides a command to display the media data:\n\ncodice_1\n\ndrutil status\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119853", "title": "Thomas Handasyd Perkins", "text": "Thomas Handasyd Perkins\n\nColonel Thomas Handasyd Perkins, or T. H. Perkins (December 15, 1764 – January 11, 1854), was a wealthy Boston merchant and an archetypical Boston Brahmin. Starting with bequests from his grandfather and father-in-law, he amassed a huge fortune. As a young man he was a slave trader in Haiti, a maritime Fur Trader, trading furs from the American Northwest to China, and then a major smuggler of Turkish opium into China. Among his philanthropic contributions include Perkins School for the Blind, renamed in his honor, the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, McLean Hospital, and helped found the Massachusetts General Hospital.\n\nPerkins was born on December 15, 1764 in Boston, Massachusetts. His parents, James Perkins and Elizabeth Peck, had ten children in eighteen years. His nephew John Perkins Cushing was active in Perkins' China business for 30 years; the town of Belmont, Massachusetts is named for his estate. His great-nephew Charles Callahan Perkins became a well known artist, author and philanthropist like his grandfather James Perkins.\n\nWhen Perkins was twelve, he was in the crowd which first heard the Declaration of Independence read to the citizens of Boston. The family had planned to send Perkins to Harvard College, but he had no interest in a college education.\n\nIn 1779, he began working, and in 1785, when he turned 21, he became legally entitled to a small bequest that had been left to him by his grandfather, Thomas Handasyd Peck, a Boston merchant who dealt largely in furs and hats. Until 1793, Perkins engaged in the slave trade at Cap-Haïtien Haiti.\n\nIn 1785, when China opened the port of Canton to foreign businesses, Perkins became one of the first Boston merchants to engage in the China trade. He sailed as supercargo on the \"Astrea\", captain James Magee, owned by Elias Hasket Derby, to Canton in 1789 with a cargo including ginseng, cheese, lard, wine, and iron. On the trip back it carried tea and silk cloth. In 1815, Perkins and his brother James opened a Mediterranean office to buy Turkish opium for resale in China.\n\nPerkins was also a major industrial investor within Massachusetts. He owned the Granite Railway, the first commercial American railroad, which was built to carry granite from Quincy quarries to Charlestown for construction of the Bunker Hill Monument and other city buildings in Boston. He also held significant holdings in the Elliot textile mills in Newton, the mills at Holyoke and Lowell, New England canals and railroads, and lead and iron mines including the Monkton Iron Company in Vergennes, Vermont. In addition, Perkins was politically active in the Federalist Party, serving terms as state senator and representative from 1805–1817. Additionally, he invested in many of the mills on Lowell, MA including Appleton Mills.\n\nIn later years Perkins became a philanthropist. In 1826, he and his brother, James Perkins, contributed half the sum of $30,000 that was needed for an addition to the Boston Athenaeum, and the old Boston Athenaeum Gallery of Art was moved to James Perkins's home. The Perkins School for the Blind, still in existence in Watertown, Massachusetts, was renamed in his honor after he donated his Boston mansion to the financially troubled \"Massachusetts Asylum for the Blind\" in 1832. He was also a major benefactor to the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, McLean Hospital, and helped found the Massachusetts General Hospital.\n\nThomas Perkins was also involved in the 1817 Gloucester sea serpent sightings in Gloucester Harbor, an event whose academic legacy would not be felt until the old age of his great-grandson Godfrey Lowell Cabot. Throughout the summer of 1817, a sea serpent was reportedly seen by hundreds of people, including the crews of four whaling boats. Described as \"a sixty-foot-long creature\" by coastal vessel captain Parson Bentley, a skeptical Colonel Perkins decided to attempt to observe it himself.\nPerkins' published report of his experience became part of his family's lore and, two years later in 1819 his daughter and son-in-law Eliza and Samuel Cabot Jr. were among the many who reported sighting a sea serpent off the coast of Nahant This caused a \"sea serpent mania\" along the coast of Massachusetts but, most importantly, it sparked an interest in such fabled creatures in Eliza and Samuel Cabot Jr.'s grandson Godfrey Lowell Cabot. While in his nineties, Godfrey Cabot sponsored the restoration of the Harvard Museum of Comparative Zoology (MCZ) complete Kronosaurus skeleton. Having again been interested in sea serpents since childhood and thus often questioning MCZ director Alfred Romer about the existence and reports of sea serpents, it thus occurred to Dr. Romer to tell Mr. Cabot about the unexcavated Kronosaurus skeleton in the museum closet. Godfrey Cabot thus asked how much a restoration would cost and \"Romer, pulling a figure out of the musty air, replied, 'Oh, about $10,000.'\" Romer may not have been serious but the philanthropist clearly was because the check for said sum came shortly thereafter.\n\nOn March 25, 1788, Perkins married Sarah \"Sally\" Elliott (1768–1852) in Boston, Massachusetts. Together, they had the following children:\n\n\nUpon retirement, Perkins built a summer home on Swan Island in the Kennebec River near Richmond, Maine. He helped the island achieve independent municipal status by paying legal fees for its charter and the town was renamed Perkins in gratitude. It is now Perkins Township, a ghost town.\n\nColonel Perkins died on January 11, 1854 in Brookline, Massachusetts, and is buried in the family plot at Mount Auburn Cemetery.\n\nThrough his son, he was the grandfather of Louisa Perkins, who married prominent Boston painter William Morris Hunt.\n\nThrough his daughter Elizabeth, he was the grandfather of seven grandsons, including Edward Clarke Cabot (b. 1818), an architect and artist, James Elliot Cabot (b. 1821), a philosopher and author, and Samuel Cabot III, a surgeon and ornithologist.\n\nThrough his daughter Mary Ann, he was the grandfather of Mary Cary, who married Harvard Professor Cornelius Conway Felton (later president of Harvard University), and Elizabeth Cabot Cary (1822–1907), the co-founder and first president of Radcliffe College, who married Louis Agassiz (1807–1873), a Swiss-American biologist and geologist.\n\nThrough his daughter Caroline, he was the grandfather of William Prescott Gardiner (1824–1860), Edward Gardiner (1825–1859), a co-founder of the American Society of Civil Engineers and Architects and the American Institute of Architects, Mary Cary Gardiner (1827–1863), John Sylvester Gardiner (1830–1856), Caroline Louisa Gardiner (1832–1888), and Charles Perkins Gardiner (1836–1864).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119856", "title": "Frederick Coutts", "text": "Frederick Coutts\n\nFrederick Coutts, CBE (21 September 1899 – 6 February 1986) was the 8th General of The Salvation Army (1963-1969).\n\nThe son of corps officers, he was born in Kirkcaldy, Scotland. In 1920, he became an Officer of The Salvation Army from the corps in Batley, England. He served in divisional work in the British Territory from 1921 to 1925, when he became a Corps Officer of the British Territory. He would serve as Corps Officer of the British Territory for 10 years. It was during his time as Corps Officer of the British Territory that he married his first wife, Lieutenant Bessie Lee, B.Sc., in 1925.\n\nBeginning in 1935, he would work 18 years in the Literary Department of International Headquarters. During his time there, he was the writer of the International Company Orders from 1935 to 1946, Editor of The Officers’ Review from 1947 to 1953, Assistant to Literary Secretary from 1947 to 1952, then in 1952, he became the Literary Secretary himself for a year.\n\nIn 1953, Frederick would move from Literary Secretary to Training Principal at the International Training College. He would hold this job for four years. In 1957, he would become the Australia Eastern Territorial Commander for six years.\n\nIn December 1963, Frederick Coutts was elected by the High Council of The Salvation Army as General of the Army. During his time in office, he would receive a Hon Litt D from Chung Ang, Korea in 1966, Order of Cultural Merit, Korea, and a CBE in 1967.\n\nHe is the author of \"The Timeless Prophets\" (1944),\"Portrait of a Salvationist\" (1955),\"The Call to Holiness\" (1957), \"Essentials of Christian Experience\" (1969), \"The Better Fight\" (1973), \"No Discharge in this War\" (1975), \"No Continuing City\" (1976), \"Bread for my Neighbour\" (1978), \"In Good Company\" (1980), \"The Splendour of Holiness\" (1983) and \"The Weapons of Goodwill\" (1986). Extracts from his writings are also published in \"Through the Year with Frederick Coutts\" (1987) a book of daily readings by Peter M. Cooke.\n\nHis wife, Bessie Lee - also a Salvation Army officer - was a graduate of Manchester University. She died in 1967. General Coutts retired a day before his 70th birthday, September 20, 1969. He married his second wife, Commissioner Olive Gatrall, in 1970. In 1981 he received an Honorary D.D. from the University of Aberdeen.\n\nGeneral Frederick Coutts died at the age of 86. He is buried in New Camberwell Cemetery.\n\nhttp://salvationarmyusa.org/usn/Publications/WD_1998_Nov_6_General_Frederick_Coutts.pdf\n"}
{"id": "2119858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119858", "title": "Politics of Wales", "text": "Politics of Wales\n\nPolitics in Wales forms a distinctive polity in the wider politics of the United Kingdom, with Wales as one of the four constituent countries of the United Kingdom (UK).\n\nConstitutionally, the United Kingdom is \"de jure\" a unitary state with one sovereign parliament and government. However, under a system of devolution (or home rule) adopted in the late 1990s three of the four countries of the United Kingdom, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, voted for limited self-government, subject to the ability of the UK Parliament in Westminster, nominally at will, to amend, change, broaden or abolish the national governmental systems. As such the Welsh Parliament (\"Senedd Cymru\") is not \"de jure\" sovereign.\n\nExecutive power in the United Kingdom is vested in the Queen-in-Council, while legislative power is vested in the Queen-in-Parliament (the Crown and the Parliament of the United Kingdom at Westminster in London). The Government of Wales Act 1998 established devolution in Wales, and certain executive and legislative powers have been constitutionally delegated to the Welsh Parliament. The scope of these powers was further widened by the Government of Wales Act 2006.\n\nSince 1999 most areas of domestic policy are decided within Wales via the Senedd Cymru – Welsh Parliament and the Welsh Government.\n\nJudicially, Wales remains within the jurisdiction of England and Wales. In 2007 the National Assembly gained the power to enact Wales-specific Measures, and, following the 2011 Welsh devolution referendum, the National Assembly was given the power to create Acts.\n\nWales, together with Cheshire, used to come under the jurisdiction of the Court of Great Session, and therefore was not within the English circuit court system. Yet it has not been its own distinct jurisdiction since the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542, at which point Welsh Law was replaced by English Law.\n\nBefore 1998, there was no separate government in Wales. Executive authority rested in the hands of the HM Government, with substantial authority within the Welsh Office since 1965. Legislative power rested within the Parliament of the United Kingdom. Judicial power has always been with the Courts of England and Wales, and the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom (or its predecessor the Law Lords).\n\nAfter the Laws in Wales Acts 1535–1542, Wales was treated in legal terms as part of England. The Wales and Berwick Act 1746 stated that all laws applying to England would also be applicable to Wales, unless the body of the law explicitly stated otherwise. However, during the latter part of the 19th century and early part of the 20th century the notion of a distinctive Welsh polity gained credence. In 1881 the Welsh Sunday Closing Act was passed, the first such legislation exclusively concerned with Wales. The Central Welsh Board was established in 1896 to inspect the grammar schools set up under the Welsh Intermediate Education Act 1889, and a separate Welsh Department of the Board of Education was formed in 1907. The Agricultural Council for Wales was set up in 1912, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries had its own Welsh Office from 1919.\n\nDespite the failure of popular political movements such as Cymru Fydd, a number of institutions, such as the National Eisteddfod (1861), the University of Wales (\"Prifysgol Cymru\") (1893), the National Library of Wales (\"Llyfrgell Genedlaethol Cymru\") (1911) and the Welsh Guards (\"Gwarchodlu Cymreig\") (1915) were created. The campaign for disestablishment of the Anglican Church in Wales, achieved by the passage of the Welsh Church Act 1914 (effective from 1920), was also significant in the development of Welsh political consciousness. Without a popular base, the issue of home rule did not feature as an issue in subsequent General Elections and was quickly eclipsed by the depression. By August 1925 unemployment in Wales rose to 28.5%, in contrast to the economic boom in the early 1920s, rendering constitutional debate an exotic subject. In the same year Plaid Cymru was formed with the goal of securing a Welsh-speaking Wales.\n\nFollowing the Second World War the Labour Government of Clement Attlee established the Council for Wales and Monmouthshire, an unelected assembly of 27 with the brief of advising the UK government on matters of Welsh interest. By that time, most UK government departments had set up their own offices in Wales. The Labour Party had also partly reappraised its view to devolution, establishing in 1947 the Welsh Regional Council of Labour from the constituent parts of the party in Wales and as part of a move to plan the economy on an all-Wales basis. However, resistance from other elements of the party meant that the machinery of government was not similarly reformed until much later.\n\nThe post of Minister of Welsh Affairs was first established in 1951, but was at first held by the UK Home Secretary. Further incremental changes also took place, including the establishment of a Digest of Welsh Statistics in 1954, and the designation of Cardiff (\"Caerdydd\") as Wales's capital city in 1955. However, further reforms were catalysed partly as a result of the controversy surrounding the flooding of Capel Celyn in 1956. Despite almost unanimous Welsh political opposition the scheme had been approved, a fact that seemed to underline Plaid Cymru's argument that the Welsh national community was powerless. Welsh nationalism experienced a modest increase in support, with Plaid Cymru's share of the vote increasing from 0.3% in 1951 to 5.2% by 1959 throughout Wales.\n\nIn 1964 the incoming Labour Government of Harold Wilson created the Welsh Office under a Secretary of State for Wales, with its powers augmented to include health, agriculture and education in 1968, 1969 and 1970 respectively. The creation of administrative devolution effectively defined the territorial governance of modern Wales.\n\nLabour's incremental embrace of a distinctive Welsh polity was arguably catalysed in 1966 when Plaid Cymru president Gwynfor Evans won the Carmarthen by-election (although in fact Labour had endorsed plans for an elected council for Wales weeks before the by-election). However, by 1967 Labour retreated from endorsing home rule mainly because of the open hostility expressed by other Welsh Labour MPs to anything \"which could be interpreted as a concession to nationalism\" and because of opposition by the Secretary of State for Scotland, who was responding to a growth of Scottish nationalism.\n\nIn response to the emergence of Plaid Cymru and the Scottish National Party (SNP) Harold Wilson's Labour Government set up the Royal Commission on the Constitution (the Kilbrandon Commission) to investigate the UK's constitutional arrangements in 1969. Its eventual recommendations formed the basis of the 1974 White Paper \"Democracy and Devolution: proposals for Scotland and Wales\"., which proposed the creation of a Welsh Assembly. However, voters rejected the proposals by a majority of four to one in a referendum held in 1979.\n\nThe election of a Labour Government in 1997 brought devolution back to the political agenda. In July 1997, the government published a White Paper, \"A Voice for Wales\", which outlined its proposals for devolution, and in September 1997 an elected Assembly with competence over the Welsh Office's powers was narrowly approved in a referendum. The National Assembly for Wales (\"Cynulliad Cenedlaethol Cymru\") was created in 1999, with further authority devolved in 2007, with the creation of a Welsh legal system to adjudicate on specific cases of Welsh law. Following devolution, the role of the Secretary of State for Wales greatly reduced. Most of the powers of the Welsh Office were handed over to the National Assembly; the Wales Office was established in 1999 to supersede the Welsh Office and support the Secretary of State.\n\nSenedd Cymru or the Welsh Parliament, commonly known as the Senedd and formerly known as the National Assembly for Wales, is a devolved parliament with power to make legislation in Wales. The assembly building is also known as the Senedd. Both English and Welsh languages are treated on a basis of equality in the conduct of business in the Assembly.\n\nThe Assembly was formed under the Government of Wales Act 1998, by the Labour government, following a referendum in 1997. The campaign for a 'yes' vote in the referendum was supported by Welsh Labour, Plaid Cymru, the Liberal Democrats and much of Welsh civic society, such as church groups and the trade union movement. The Conservative Party was the only major political party in Wales to oppose devolution.\n\nThe election in 2003 produced an assembly in which half of the assembly seats were held by women. This is thought to be the first time elections to a legislature have produced equal representation for women.\n\nThe Senedd consists of 60 elected members. They use the title Member of the Senedd (MS) or \"Aelod o'r Senedd\" (AS). The Senedd's Llywydd, or presiding officer, is Plaid Cymru member Elin Jones.\n\nThe Welsh Government is led by First Minister Mark Drakeford of Welsh Labour.\n\nThe executive and civil servants are based in Cardiff's Cathays Park while the Assembly Members, the Assembly Parliamentary Service and Ministerial support staff are based in Cardiff Bay where a new £67 million Assembly Building, known as the Senedd, has recently been built.\n\nUntil May 2007 one important feature of the Assembly was that there was no legal or constitutional separation of the legislative and executive functions, since it was a single corporate entity. Even compared with other parliamentary systems, and other UK devolved countries, this was highly unusual. In reality however there was day to day separation, and the terms \"Assembly Government\" and \"Assembly Parliamentary Service\" were used to distinguish between the two arms. The Government of Wales Act 2006 regularised the separation once it comes into effect following the 2007 Assembly Election.\nThe Senedd also has limited tax varying and borrowing powers. These include powers over Business Rates, Stamp Duty (now Land Transaction Tax), Landfills Tax (now Landfills Disposal Tax) and from 2019 a portion of Income Tax.\n\nIn terms of charges for government services it also has some discretion. Notable examples where this discretion has been used and varies significantly to other areas in the UK include:-\n\nThis means in reality there is a wider definition of \"nursing care\" than in England and therefore less dependence on means testing in Wales than in England, meaning that more people are entitled to higher levels of state assistance. These variations in the levels of charges, may be viewed as \"de facto\" tax varying powers.\n\nThis model of more limited legislative powers is partly because Wales had a more similar legal system to England from 1536, when it was annexed and legally became an integral part of the Kingdom of England (although Wales retained its own judicial system, the Great Sessions until 1830). Ireland and Scotland were incorporated into the United Kingdom through negotiations between the respective Kingdoms' Parliaments, and so retained some more differences in their legal systems. The Scottish Parliament and the Northern Ireland Assembly have wider powers.\n\nThe Assembly inherited the powers and budget of the Secretary of State for Wales and most of the functions of the Welsh Office. Since May 2007 the National Assembly for Wales has had more extensive powers to legislate, in addition to the function of varying laws passed by Westminster using secondary legislation conferred under the original Government of Wales Act 1998. The post of Secretary of State for Wales, currently Simon Hart, retains a residual role.\n\nThe Welsh Government (), is the executive body of the Senedd, consisting of the First Minister and his Cabinet.\n\nFollowing the 2016 National Assembly for Wales election, a minority Welsh Labour-Welsh Liberal Democrats coalition Government was formed in May 2016. The current cabinet members of the 5th Welsh Government are:\n\nFirst Minister\n\nWelsh Ministers\n\nDeputy Welsh Ministers\n\nThe Welsh Government had no independent executive powers in law - unlike for instance, the Scottish Ministers and Ministers in the UK government. The Assembly was established as a \"body corporate\" by the Government of Wales Act 1998 and the executive, as a committee of the Assembly, only had those powers that the Assembly as a whole votes to vest in ministers. The Government of Wales Act 2006 has now formally separated the Assembly and the Welsh Government giving Welsh Ministers independent executive authority.\n\nWales Shadow Cabinet\n\nThroughout much of the 19th century, Wales was a bastion of the Liberal Party. From the early 20th century, the Labour Party has emerged as the most popular political party in Wales, before 2009 having won the largest share of the vote at every UK General Election, National Assembly for Wales election and European Parliament election since 1922. The Wales Labour Party has traditionally been most successful in the industrial south Wales valleys, north east Wales and urban coastal areas, such as Cardiff, Newport and Swansea.\n\nThe Welsh Conservative Party has historically been the second political party of Wales, having obtained the second largest share of the vote in Wales in a majority of UK general elections since 1885. In three General Elections (1906, 1997 and 2001) no Conservative MPs were returned to Westminster, while on only two occasions in the 20th century (1979 and 1983) have more than a quarter of Welsh constituencies been represented by Conservatives. However, in the 2009 European Parliament elections the Conservatives polled higher than the Labour party in Wales.\n\nPlaid Cymru is the principal Welsh nationalist political party in Wales. The Party was formed in 1925, but did not contest a majority of Welsh seats in any UK general election until 1959. In 1966 the first Plaid Cymru MP was returned to Parliament. Plaid Cymru's share of the vote since has averaged 10%, with the highest share ever - 14.3% - gained in the 2001 general election. Plaid Cymru is strongest in rural Welsh-speaking areas of north and west Wales.\n\nThe Welsh Liberal Democrats are part of the UK Liberal Democrats, and were formed by the merger of the Social Democratic Party (the SDP) and the Liberal Party in 1988. Since then they have gained an average vote share of 14% with the highest share - 18% - gained at the 2005 general election. The Welsh Liberal Democrats have the strongest support in rural mid and west Wales. The party performs relatively strongly in local government elections.\n\nFollowing the 2019 elections:\nBetween 1999 and 2007 there were three elections for the National Assembly. Labour won the largest share of votes and seats in each election and has always been in government in Wales, either as a minority administration or in coalition, first with the Liberal Democrats (2000 to 2003) and with Plaid Cymru between 2007 and 2011. The predominance of coalitions is a result of the Additional Member System used for Assembly elections, which has worked to the benefit of Labour (it won a higher share of seats than votes in the 1999, 2003 and 2007 elections) but not given it the same advantage the party has enjoyed in first-past-the-post elections to Welsh seats in the House of Commons.\n\nPolicy divergence between Wales and England has arisen largely because Welsh governments have not followed the market-based English public service reforms introduced during the premiership of Tony Blair. In 2002, First Minister Rhodri Morgan said that a key theme of the first four years of the Assembly was the creation of a new set of citizenship rights that are free at the point of use, universal and unconditional. He accepted the Blairite mantra of equality of opportunity and equality of access, but emphasised what he called \"the fundamentally socialist aim of equality of outcome\" - in stark contrast to the approach of Blair, who said that the true meaning of equality is specifically \"not equality of outcome\".\n\nMarking ten years of devolution in a 2009 speech, Morgan highlighted free prescriptions, primary school breakfasts and free swimming as 'Made in Wales' initiatives that had made \"a real difference to people’s everyday lives\" since the National Assembly came into being. However, some authors have argued that the approach to public services in England has been more effective than that in Wales, with health and education \"cost(ing) less and delivering more\". Unfavourable comparisons between National Health Service waiting lists in England and Wales were a contentious issue in the first and second Assemblies.\n\nNevertheless, a 'progressive consensus' based on faith in the power of government, universal rather than means-tested services, co-operation rather than competition in public services, a rejection of individual choice as a guide to policy and a focus on equality of outcome continued to underpin the One Wales coalition government in the Third Assembly. The commitment to universalism may be tested by increasing budgetary constraints; in April 2009 a senior Plaid Cymru adviser warned of impending health and education cuts.\n\nFor the purposes of local government, Wales was divided into 22 council areas in 1996. These unitary authorities are responsible for the provision of all local government services, including education, social work, environment and roads services. The lowest tier of local government in Wales is the community council, which is analogous to a civil parish in England.\n\nThe Queen appoints a Lord Lieutenant to represent her in the eight Preserved counties of Wales, which are combinations of council areas.\n\nSince the Laws in Wales Acts 1535–1542, Wales was annexed into England and has since shared a single legal system. England and Wales are considered a single unit for the conflict of laws. This is because the unit is the constitutional successor to the former Kingdom of England. If considered as a subdivision of the United Kingdom, England & Wales would have a population of 53,390,300 and an area of 151,174 km².\n\nScotland, Northern Ireland, and dependencies such as the Isle of Man and the Bailiwicks of Jersey and Guernsey, are also separate units for this purpose (although they are not separate states under public international law), each with their own legal system (see the more complete explanation in English law).\n\nWales was brought under a common monarch with England through conquest with the Statute of Rhuddlan in 1284 and annexed to England for legal purposes by the Laws in Wales Acts 1535-1542. However, references in legislation for 'England' were still taken as excluding Wales. The Wales and Berwick Act 1746 meant that in all future laws, 'England' would by default include Wales (and Berwick-upon-Tweed). This was later repealed in 1967 and current laws use \"England and Wales\" as a single entity.\nCardiff was proclaimed as the Welsh capital in 1955.\n\nWales elects 40 representatives to the 646-member House of Commons in the Parliament of the United Kingdom in London. In the 2010 General Election, the Labour Party lost approximately 12% of the vote across Wales, with losses varying by region. However, Labour managed to mitigate their losses by winning 26 seats. The Conservatives returned the three MP's elected in the 2005 general election as well as adding 5 more. The Liberal Democrats have 3 seats. Plaid Cymru, the Welsh nationalist party, also have 3 seats after gaining a seat from Labour.\n\nThe Wales Office (\"Swyddfa Cymru\") is a United Kingdom government department. It is a replacement for the old Welsh Office (\"Swyddfa Gymreig\"), which had extensive responsibility for governing Wales prior to Welsh devolution in 1999. Its current incarnation is significantly less powerful: it is primarily responsible for carrying out the few functions remaining to the Secretary of State for Wales that have not been transferred already to National Assembly for Wales and securing funds for Wales as part of the annual budget settlement.\n\nThe Secretary of State for Wales has overall responsibility for the office but it is located administratively within the Department for Constitutional Affairs. This was carried out as part of the changes announced on 12 June 2003 that were part of a package intended toward replacing the Lord Chancellor's Department.\n\nMinisters of the Wales Office are:\n\nThe entire country of Wales was a constituency of the European Parliament. It elected four Members of the European Parliament using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation, representation had been reduced from five seats in 2004.\n\nMembers of the European Parliament for Wales\n\nThe Concordat on Co-ordination of European Union Policy Issues between the UK Government and the devolved administrations notes that \"as all foreign policy issues are non-devolved, relations with the European Union are the responsibility of the Parliament and Government of the United Kingdom, as Member State\". However, Welsh Government civil servants participate in the United Kingdom Permanent Representation to the EU (UKRep), and Wales is represented on the EU's Committee of the Regions and Economic and Social Committee.\n\nRelations between Wales and America is primarily conducted through the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, in addition to her Secretary of Foreign Affairs and Ambassador to the United States. Nevertheless, the Welsh Government has deployed their own envoy to America, primarily to promote Wales-specific business interests. The primary Welsh Government Office is based out of the Washington British Embassy, with satellites in New York, Chicago, San Francisco, and Atlanta.\n\nCommensurately, the United States has established a caucus to build direct relations with Wales comprising:\n\nWales has typically been underserved by think tanks and research bodies relative to the rest of the United Kingdom. Nevertheless, a number of bodies exist across areas including the economy, social issues, housing, research, and more.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119871", "title": "Emperor (dragonfly)", "text": "Emperor (dragonfly)\n\nThe emperor dragonfly or blue emperor (\"Anax imperator\") is a large species of hawker dragonfly of the family Aeshnidae, averaging in length.\n\nThis dragonfly has a wide distribution; it is found throughout Africa and through most of Europe, the Arabian Peninsula, and south-western and central Asia. Since 2000, its range has expanded in Europe, both northwards and to higher altitudes.\n\nThey frequently fly high up into the sky in search of prey, which includes butterflies, other Odonata and tadpoles; small prey is eaten while flying. They breed in a variety of aquatic habitats from large ponds to dikes, but they require a plentiful supply of vegetation in the water. The females lay the eggs into plants such as pondweed, and always lay alone. The larvae are very aggressive and are likely to influence the native species composition of colonized freshwater ecosystems. The adult male is highly territorial, and difficult to approach. In the summer months emperor dragonflies are frequent visitors to gardens, being especially prevalent in the southern counties of Great Britain.\n\nWhen they first emerge, both sexes appear pale green with brown markings. The legs are brown with a yellow like base. Wings are born black but grow yellow-brown with age. Males have a sky blue abdomen marked with a diagnostic black dorsal stripe and an apple green thorax. The thorax and head of a male is green and their prominent eyes are blue. Females have similar markings but they are mainly green.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119875", "title": "Samara Barend", "text": "Samara Barend\n\nSamara \"Sam\" Barend was the 2004 Democratic Party nominee for the U.S. House of Representatives for the 29th Congressional district of New York State. She lost with 41 percent of the vote against Conservative Mark Assini and the winner, Republican Randy Kuhl, in the race to succeed retiring Republican Congressman Amo Houghton. \n\nAt 26 years old, Barend would have been the youngest woman ever elected to Congress. Barend, who had never run for public office before, raised $627,952 in her contest against Randy Kuhl, a Republican state senator who served in the NY State Assembly and Senate for more than 25 years. The heavily Republican nature of the 29th district, covering the Southern Tier in rural upstate New York, worked against her.\n\nBarend was a featured candidate in several major Internet sources including the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee's blog, The Stakeholder and on the website of ActBlue, the non-profit \"527\" political committee that supports Democratic candidates.\n\nPrior to the campaign, Barend was best known for her work in spearheading the campaign to bring a major interstate highway, Interstate 86, to the \"Southern Tier\" area of New York state, in an attempt to revitalize the lagging economy of the region. Barend was a college student at the time and had worked previously as an intern for Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan. She later worked as Statewide Neighborhood program director for Hillary Clinton's first US Senate campaign. \n\nBarend grew up in Vestal. She has an older sister Beth, who is a science teacher in Indiana. She also has an older brother Dave, who is an appellate criminal defense attorney in the Boston area.\n\nAccording to an article in the August edition of Harvard Kennedy School's monthly magazine, \"At 19, she undertook a long-dormant plan to convert New York State Route 17 into Interstate 86. At 22, she founded Minds of Steel, a non-profit organization that promoted the benefit of physical fitness in addressing mental illness.\"\n\nFrom 2005-2008, Barend was the governmental affairs director for engineering and consulting firm STV Group, Inc. and director of her nonprofit Minds of Steel in Vestal. In 2008, Barend was appointed Executive Director of the New York State Asset Maximization (SAM) Commission which was tasked to identify specific public private partnerships for the State. Barend is currently Senior Vice President & Development Director of Public-Private Partnerships for AECOM Capital. Barend has an undergraduate degree from the University of Pennsylvania with an individualized major in governing complex organizations (1999) and a Master's in Public Policy from Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government (2004). Barend was named a member of the 1999 USA TODAY All-USA Academic Team.\n\nIn 2015, Barend was named to the Vestal Central School District Hall of Fame. \n\nVestal Central School District Hall of Fame\n"}
{"id": "2119876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119876", "title": "Eospirifer", "text": "Eospirifer\n\nEospirifer is a genus of extinct brachiopod in the class Rhynchonellata (Articulata) and the order Spiriferida. Their fossils occur most commonly in marine calcareous, microbialitic mudstones with extensive mudcracks or shelly packstones, generally mid-Silurian to early-Devonian in age.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119879", "title": "Dante Booker", "text": "Dante Booker\n\nDante Booker (born October 9, 1977) is a former professional American football player. Booker grew up in Akron, Ohio, where he was a three-time all-city selection in High School basketball. Booker played college football at Montgomery Junior College prior to transferring to Auburn University, where he majored in sociology. Upon graduation, Booker pursued a career in professional football.\nDante now works for the City of Akron Fire Department as a Firefighter/Paramedic.\n\nBooker played for the BC Lions of the Canadian Football League his rookie season in the league. He attended the B.C.'s Abbotsford training camp the following season but was released prior to the start of the regular season. He was signed as a free agent by the Winnipeg Blue Bombers in May 2006. Following the 2006 CFL season, Booker signed to play indoor football with the Montgomery Bears of the American Indoor Football Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119888", "title": "Lewis Gordon", "text": "Lewis Gordon\n\nLewis Ricardo Gordon (born May 12, 1962) is an American philosopher at the University of Connecticut who works in the areas of Africana philosophy, existentialism, phenomenology, social and political theory, postcolonial thought, theories of race and racism, philosophies of liberation, aesthetics, philosophy of education, and philosophy of religion. He has written particularly extensively on Africana and black existentialism, postcolonial phenomenology, race and racism, and on the works and thought of W. E. B. Du Bois and Frantz Fanon. His most recent book is titled: \"What Fanon Said: A Philosophical Introduction To His Life And Thought.\" \n\nGordon graduated in 1984 from Lehman College, CUNY, through the Lehman Scholars Program, with a Bachelor of Arts degree, \"magna cum laude\" and as a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He completed his Master of Arts and Master of Philosophy degrees in philosophy in 1991 at Yale University, and received his Doctor of Philosophy degree with distinction from the same university in 1993. Following the completion of his doctoral studies, Gordon taught at Brown University, Yale, Purdue University, and Temple University, where he was the Laura H. Carnell Professor of Philosophy in the Department of Philosophy with affiliations in Religious and Judaic Studies. He is currently Professor of Philosophy and Africana Studies, with affiliations in Judaic Studies and the Caribbean, Latino/a, and Latin American Studies, at the University of Connecticut at Storrs. He also is Visiting Euro philosophy Professor at Toulouse University, France, and Nelson Mandela Visiting Professor in Political and International Studies at Rhodes University in South Africa (2014–2016).\n\nAt Temple, he was Director of the Institute for the Study of Race and Social Thought (ISRST), which is devoted to research on the complexity and social dimensions of race and racism. The ISRST's many projects include developing a consortium on Afro-Latin American Studies, a Philadelphia Blues People Project, semiological studies of indigeneity, a Black Civil Society project, symposia on race, sexuality, and sexual health, and ongoing work in Africana philosophy. Gordon was Executive Editor of volumes I-V of \"Radical Philosophy Review: Journal of the Radical Philosophy Association\" and co-editor of the Routledge book series on Africana philosophy. Additionally, he is President of the Caribbean Philosophical Association.\n\nGordon is the founder of the Center for Afro-Jewish Studies, the only such research center, which focuses on developing and providing reliable sources of information on African and African Diasporic Jewish or Hebrew-descended populations. Gordon states: \"In actuality, there is no such thing as pure Jewish blood. Jews are a creolized [mixed-race] people. It's been that way since at least the time we left Egypt as a [culturally] mixed Egyptian and African [i.e., from other parts of Africa] people.\"\n\nGordon founded the Second Chance Program at Lehman High School in the Bronx, New York. He is married to Jane Anna Gordon.\n\nGordon is considered among the leading scholars in black existentialism. He first came to prominence in this subject because of his first book, \"Bad Faith and Antiblack Racism\" (1995), which was an existential phenomenological study of anti-black racism, and his anthology \"Existence in Black: An Anthology of Black Existential Philosophy\" (1997). The book is written in four parts, with a series of short chapters that at times take the form of phenomenological vignettes. Bad faith, as Gordon reads it, is a coextensive phenomenon reflective of the metastability of the human condition. It is a denial of human reality, an effort to evade freedom, a flight from responsibility, a choice against choice, an assertion of being the only point of view on the world, an assertion of being the world, an effort to deny having a point of view, a flight from displeasing truths to pleasing falsehoods, a form of misanthropy, an act of believing what one does not believe, a form of spirit of seriousness, sincerity, an effort to disarm evidence (a Gordon innovation), a form of sedimented or institutional version of all of these, and (another Gordon innovation) a flight from and war against social reality. Gordon rejects notions of disembodied consciousness (which he argues are forms of bad faith) and articulates a theory of the body-in-bad-faith. Gordon also rejects authenticity discourses. He sees them as trapped in expectations of sincerity, which also is a form of bad faith. He proposes, instead, critical good faith, which he argues requires respect for evidence and accountability in the social world, a world of intersubjective relations.\n\nRacism, Gordon argues, requires the rejection of another human being's humanity. Since the other human being is a human being, such a rejection is a contradiction of reality. A racist must, then, deny reality, and since communication is possible between a racist and the people who are the object of racial hatred, then social reality is also what is denied in racist assertions. A racist, then, attempts to avoid social reality. Gordon argues that since people could only \"appear\" if embodied, then racism is an attack on embodied realities. It is an effort to make embodied realities bodies without points of view or make points of views without bodies. Racism is also a form of the spirit of seriousness, by which Gordon means the treatment of values as material features of the world instead of expressions of human freedom and responsibility. Racism ascribes to so-called racially inferior people intrinsic values that emanate from their flesh. A result of the spirit of seriousness is racist rationality. Here, Gordon, in agreement with Frantz Fanon, argues that racists are not irrational people but instead hyper-rational expressions of racist rationality. He rejects, in other words, theories that regard racism as a function of bad emotions or passions. Such phenomena, he suggests, emerge as a consequence of racist thinking, not its cause. Effect emerges, in other words, to affect how one negotiates reality. If one is not willing to deal with time, a highly emotional response squeezes all time into a single moment, which leads to the overflow of what one prefers to believe over what one is afraid of facing.\n\nGordon analyzes a variety of issues in the study of anti-black racism, such as black antiblack racists, exoticism, racial “qualities,” and theological-ethical dimensions of racism. He prefers to focus on anti-black racism instead of “white supremacy” because, he points out, that anti-black racism could exist without white supremacy. There are many people who reject white supremacy but affirm notions of black inferiority. A prime example is that there are black antiblack racists. Gordon analyzes this phenomenon through a discussion of black use of the word “nigger,” which he argues is bad faith effort at black self-exceptionalism—of, in the case of the user of the term, not being its object. Exoticism is the other extreme. It is a rejection of the humanity of black people under the pretense of loving black people. The exoticist valorizes black people because he or she regards black people as, like animals, incapable of valid judgment.\n\nGordon argues that in theological form, studies of anti-black racism reveal that a particular assumption of Western ethical thought must be rejected – the notion of similarity as a condition of ethical obligation. That black woman could worship a god with whom they are neither similar nor could ever be identical demonstrates that love does not require similarity. Gordon argues that the ethical issue against anti-black racism is not one of seeing the similarity between blacks and whites but of being able, simply, to respect and see the ethical importance of blacks as blacks. The fight against racism, in other words, does not require the elimination of race or noticing the racial difference but instead demands to respect the humanity of the people who exemplify racial difference. In \"Existence in Black\", Gordon outlines themes of black existentialism in the text's introduction. He argues that black existentialism addresses many of the same themes of European existentialism but with some key differences. For instance, although both sets argue that the notion of a human being makes no sense outside of human communities and that individuals make no sense without society and societies make no sense without individuals, European existentialists had to defend individuality more because they were normative in their societies, whereas black existentialists had to focus on community more in order to demonstrate their membership in the human community. The question of individuality for black existentialists becomes one of showing that not all black people are the same. Themes of anguish, dread, freedom, absurdity, and death are examined, as well, through the historical reality of anti-black racism and colonialism and, along with it, the meaning of black suffering and the legitimacy of black existence. The logic of anti-black racism demands blacks offering justifications for their existence that are not posed for whites.\n\nGordon points these dynamics out through discussions of W. E. B. Du Bois's observation that black people are often treated as problems instead of people who face problems in the world and Frantz Fanon's call for black people to become actional through transcending the dialectics of seeking white recognition. Gordon also argues that black existential philosophy is an area of thought, which means that contributions to its development can come from anyone who understands its problematics. In other words, one does not have to be black to contribute to this area of thought. \"Existence in Black\" reflects his point since it has articles by other authors from a variety of racial and ethnic backgrounds discussing themes ranging from African and Afro-Caribbean existential struggles with beliefs in predestination to black feminist struggles with postmodern anti-essentialist thought. Gordon's chapter in the book focuses on the problem of black invisibility, which he points out is paradoxical since it is a function of black people being hyper-visible. Gordon's place in this area of thought was solidified in 2000 with the publication of his book \"Existentia Africana: Understanding Africana Existential Thought\". That book explores themes of existence—which he points out, from its Latin etymology, means to stand out or to appear—over the course of examining a set of new philosophical themes that emerge from their convergence with realities faced by African diasporic peoples. Gordon argues that traditional philosophical questions are not the only ones that philosophers should look at. Gordon examines, as a matter of philosophical interest, topics ranging from the stratification of blacks in biographical discourses to the difficulty of studying black people as human beings. He rejects the notion that existential philosophy is incompatible with religious thought. To support his position, he examines how religion poses not only unique questions of paths to be taken in struggles for liberation, but also of the conditions that make religious practices such as worship possible. He ends that work with a reflection on writing, in which he advances his own commitment to transcendental philosophical approaches, those, in other words, that explore the conditions by which and through which certain phenomena are able to manifest themselves or become possible. Crucial here is that Gordon does not pit existential philosophy against transcendental philosophy but, instead, argues for both.\n\nGordon is also known as the founder of postcolonial phenomenology and the leading proponent of Africana phenomenology which has enabled him to make a mark in Fanon Studies. Gordon was able to develop postcolonial phenomenology, which he sometimes refers to as Africana phenomenology or de-colonial phenomenology, through making a series of important innovations to Husserlian and Sartrian phenomenologies. The first, and perhaps most important, is his transformation of parenthesizing and bracketing of the natural attitude into what he calls \"ontological suspension\". Although Husserl called for a suspension of the natural attitude, his goal was primarily epistemological. Gordon's interest is, however, primarily concerned with errors that occur from inappropriate ontological assertions. He is also concerned with metaphysics, which he, unlike many contemporary thinkers, does not reject. Instead, he sees the continuation of Aristotelian metaphysics, which advances a notion of substance that is governed by the essence that leads to the definition in the form of essential being, as a problem. Gordon wants to talk about the social world and the meanings constructed by it without reducing it to a physicalist ontology. The notion of ontological suspension, which he claims is compatible with Husserlian phenomenology, advances this effort. He also advances phenomenology as a form of radically self-reflective thought, which means that it must question even its methodological assumptions. Because of this, it must resist epistemological colonization, and it is in this sense that phenomenology is itself postcolonial or decolonizing. Because of this, Gordon refused for some time in his career to refer to his work as “philosophy,” for that would mean colonizing it with a disciplinary set of assumptions. He preferred to call his work “radical thought,” which for him meant being willing to go to the roots of reality in a critical way. From these moves, Gordon was able to generate a set of theoretical concepts that have become useful to those who have adopted his theoretical lexicon: his unique formulation of crisis; his theory of epistemic closure; his theory of disciplinary decadence and teleological suspension of disciplinarity; and his analysis of maturation and tragedy.\n\nMost of these ideas first emerged in the work that gave Gordon a reputation in Fanon studies—namely, \"Fanon and the Crisis of European Man: An Essay on Philosophy and the Human Sciences\" (1995). Gordon introduced a new stage in Fanon studies by announcing that he was not interested in writing on Fanon but instead working with Fanon on the advancement of his (Gordon's) own intellectual project. Fanon was thus an occasion or point of departure but not the main object of the study. The work is, then, a statement more of Gordon's philosophy than that of Fanon, who, in this text, is more a major influence. The book offers several innovations to the question of colonialism and the human sciences. First, Gordon argues that crises are really human communities refusing to make the choices necessary for the transformation of realities created by human agency. In short, they are forms of choices against choice or choosing not to choose, which amounts to bad faith. History, he argued, must transcend the imposition of world history (and thus become structured as a crisis) and move toward an existential-historical understanding of human communities on the basis of critical good faith. Phenomena such as racism and colonialism, because they attempt to erase the humanity of the colonized and object of racism, place challenges on whether it is possible to study human communities without collapsing into acts of discursive, imperial practices.\n\nGordon has also made an important contribution to the understanding around the work of Steve Biko by way of a new introduction to Biko's classic text \"I Write What I Like\".\n\nFor some scholars, essentialism means that one cannot study race and racism and colonialism properly because of they, in effect, lack essences. Gordon argues that although human beings are incomplete, are without laws of nature, it does not follow that they cannot be studied and understood with reasonable accuracy. Drawing upon the thought of Max Weber, Edmund Husserl, Alfred Schutz, and Frantz Fanon, Gordon argued that the task is to develop accurate portrayals or to thematize everyday life. He argues that racism and colonialism are everyday phenomena and, as such, are lived as \"normal\" aspects of modern life. Even under severe conditions, human beings find ways to live as though under ordinary conditions. This ordinariness can get to a point of distorting reality. In the case of racism, one group of people are allowed to live an ordinary life under ordinary conditions while another group or other groups are expected to do so under extraordinary conditions. Institutional bad faith renders those extraordinary conditions invisible and advances as a norm the false notion a shared ordinary set of conditions. This is the meaning behind the colloquial notion of \"double standards\". Gordon here also advances a theory that provides an answer to social constructivists in the study of race. What they fail to understand, Gordon argues, is that sociality is also constructed, which makes social constructivism redundant.\n\nMany social constructivists also treat the identification of constructive as the conclusion of the argument instead of its beginning. For Gordon, identifying that something is constructed does not mean showing that the phenomenon is false or fictional. Human beings construct many \"real\" things, such as language and meaning and the forms of life generated by such activities and concepts. Many people are able, for instance, to act on race concepts (not racist ones) with a fair degree of accuracy. What this means is simply that they know how to read the social world and the bodies through which that world is manifested. The error that many critics make is that they demand the false criterion of universality and infallibility to the practice of racial identification. Gordon argues that such a demand would not work for the identification of most social phenomena. What is required is not universality nor infallibility but generality. Gordon defends this claim by making the distinction between a law and a principle. Law is absolute, without exceptions, categorical. A principle is general and has exceptions. For things human, principles are more appropriate ascriptions than laws. Gordon argues that these ideas emerged through his reading of Fanon's notions of sociogenesis.\n\nOther ideas he borrows from Fanon are his rejection of the dialectics of recognition and his unique view on racism's impact on ethics and the concept of the Other. Like Fanon, Gordon argues that to seek white recognition leads to dependency on whites. It also means to make whites the standard of value. Yet Gordon rejects the thesis that racism is about a Self–Other dialectic. Antiblack racists do not see blacks as the Other or others, in Gordon's view. Such relations only exist between whites and whomever else they see as human beings or genuine others. Thus, the struggle against anti-black racism is ironically for blacks to become others. This displacement of otherness means that the fight against racism is governed not by moral laws but by tragic ones in which innocence becomes irrelevant. Gordon concludes the work with a look at how two scholars read Fanon's importance: Henry Louis Gates, Jr., argued that only Fanon's biography is of any contemporary interest, and that is as good literature. Cedric Robinson argued that Gates failed to see the political dimensions of Fanon's thought and that he should be read as a Marxist-oriented revolutionary. Gordon points out that both scholars were committing acts of disciplinary decadence by, in effect, condemning other disciplines for not being theirs. It was at the end of that book that the concept of disciplinary decadence was introduced. He returned to the concept most recently in his book \"Disciplinary Decadence\" (2006). Gordon's reputation in Fanon Studies grew through his co-edited anthology, \"Fanon: A Critical Reader\" (1996), and his many articles over the past decade on various dimensions of Fanon's thought. In those works, he introduced what he calls “five stages of Fanon’s studies,” and he offers a variety of unique readings of Fanon's work. He has shown connections between Du Bois and Fanon on double consciousness; he has written on how Fanon's critique of white normativity leads to the question of whether modern society has any notion of a normal black person; Fanon, he argues, seeks a coherent notion of how it is possible.\n\nGordon's writings have continued expansion of his and related philosophical approaches and lexicon. In his book of social criticism, \"Her Majesty's Other Children: Sketches of Racism from a Neocolonial Age\" (1997), he explored problems in critical race theory and philosophy and introduced one of his most famous thought experiments. In the chapter \"Sex, Race, and Matrices of Desire\", Gordon purports to have created a racial-gender-sex-sexuality matrix and used it to challenge our assumptions of the mixture. A white woman in that matrix, for instance, is mixed because her whiteness makes her masculine but her womanness makes her black. Or certain relationships are transformed, where same-sex interracial relationships are not necessarily homosexual or lesbian ones. What is striking about the book is a theme that some of his critics noticed in his earlier books, and that is the role of music in his prose and analysis. Gordon here builds on his argument about the everyday in his earlier work to argue that danger of most theories of social transformation is that they fail to take seriously the aesthetic dimensions of everyday life. Moral and political thought and economy are good at constructing contexts in which people could sustain biological and social life, but they are terrible at articulating what it means to live in a livable world. Gordon argues that a genuinely emancipatory society creates spaces for the ordinary celebration of everyday pleasure. In his more recent work, Gordon has been arguing about the geography of reason and the importance of contingency in social life. However, it needs to be noted that the legitimacy of his \"mixture-matrix\" is largely dependent upon his controversial applications of semiotics to race and gender.\n\nA problem of Western thought, Gordon argues, is that it has yoked reason to instrumental rationality and created an antiblack notion of reason's geographical landscape. Shifting the geography of reason, he argues, would entail a war on the kinds of decadence that treat any human community as incapable of manifesting reason. But more, Gordon argues that reason is broader than rationality since it must be used to assess rationality. Rationality could only attempt to impose consistency on reason, but the reason could point out that maximum consistency, although rational, may be unreasonable. Gordon's recent work has been a development of these issues. His co-edited books with Jane Anna Gordon, \"Not Only the Master's Tools: African-American Studies in Theory and Practice\" (2005) and \"A Companion to African-American Studies\" (2006), offer some important new concepts in the ongoing development of his thought. In the first, he offers a comprehensive treatment of African-American philosophy and the importance of Africana existential phenomenological thought through a critique of Audre Lorde's admonition of using the master's tools. The two Gordons' response is that (1) tools should not only be used to tear down houses but also to build them up; (2) the master's tools are not the only tools available; and (3) the construction of alternative houses (theoretical models, philosophies) could decenter the value of the master's house, denuding it of mastery. In his essay \"African-American Philosophy, Race, and Racism\", which is his main contribution in that volume, he provides a comprehensive and concise statement of his work to date. In the introduction to the \"Companion\", he and Jane Gordon formulate a theory of African-American Studies as a form of double consciousness. But the key here is the introduction of their concept \"the pedagogical imperative\". This imperative refers to a teacher's duty to learn and keep learning the broadest and most accurate picture of reality available to humankind. The editors also advance a theory of internationalism, localism, and market nihilism in the face of the rise of an independent managerial class to describe the dynamics of the contemporary academy.\n\nGordon considers all of his works to be part of a humanist tradition. The role of intellectuals, in his view, is to challenge the limits of human knowledge and, in so doing, achieve some advancement in what he calls \"the \"Geist\" war\". For him, the importance of intellectual work could be summarized by his claim that one \"achieves\" as a human being for humanity but one always fails alone. Gordon's work has also been characterized as a form of existential sociology. The sociological dimensions of his writings have received much attention, and the readers of his most recent book, \"Disciplinary Decadence: Living Thought in Trying Times\" (2006), have described it as a work that is not only in philosophy (of disciplinarity) but also in education and the sociology of the formations of disciplines themselves. Gordon, however, describes what he is attempting to do as a teleological suspension of disciplinarity.\n\nGordon has produced approximately 100 articles, book chapters, and reviews. Books by Gordon currently in print are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119889", "title": "61st United States Congress", "text": "61st United States Congress\n\nThe Sixty-first United States Congress was a meeting of the legislative branch of the United States federal government, composed of the United States Senate and the United States House of Representatives. It met in Washington, DC from March 4, 1909, to March 4, 1911, during the first two years of William H. Taft's presidency. The apportionment of seats in the House of Representatives was based on the Twelfth Census of the United States in 1900. Both chambers had a Republican majority.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAt this time, most Senators were elected by the state legislatures every two years, with one-third beginning new six-year terms with each Congress. A few senators were elected directly by the residents of the state. Preceding the names in the list below are Senate class numbers, which indicate the cycle of their election, In this Congress, Class 1 meant their term ended with this Congress, requiring reelection in 1910; Class 2 meant their term began in the last Congress, requiring reelection in 1912; and Class 3 meant their term began in this Congress, requiring reelection in 1914.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe count below reflects changes from the beginning of the first session of this Congress.\n\n\n\nLists of committees and their party leaders, for members (House and Senate) of the committees and their assignments, go into the Official Congressional Directory at the bottom of the article and click on the link (4 links), in the directory after the pages of terms of service, you will see the committees of the Senate, House (Standing with Subcommittees, Select and Special) and Joint and after the committee pages, you will see the House/Senate committee assignments in the directory, on the committees section of the House and Senate in the Official Congressional Directory, the committee's members on the first row on the left side shows the chairman of the committee and on the right side shows the ranking member of the committee.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119891", "title": "Thomas Edison Depot Museum", "text": "Thomas Edison Depot Museum\n\nThe Grand Trunk Western Railroad Depot (now the Thomas Edison Depot Museum) is a former railway depot located at 520 State Street in Port Huron, Michigan. It has been converted into a museum. The building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1977.\n\nThe Canadian Grand Trunk Railway Company constructed this building as the Gratiot Railway Station in 1858. It served as a major port for immigrants passing from Canada into the United States, and by 1869, approximately 42,000 immigrants had passed through the station. Near the station lived a young Thomas Edison, who worked at the station as a news butcher from 1859 to 1863.\n\nA larger, two-story station was constructed in 1907 to replace the 1858 depot (the 1907 depot was used until 1971 and demolished in 1973). In approximately the mid-1920s, the 1858 depot was converted to office space by the Peerless Cement Company.\n\nThe Port Huron Museum opened the Thomas Edison Depot Museum in the building in 2001. The depot is owned and operated by the Port Huron Museum and is the actual depot that Thomas Edison worked out of as a news butcher. The museum includes a restored baggage car resting on a short spur of railroad track. The museum houses artifacts from the archaeological dig done at the site of his boyhood home, which burned in 1870. See and hear original Edison phonographs played, see the world's largest light bulb and learn about the early days of this famous inventor.\n\nThe Grand Trunk Western Railroad Depot is a single story rectangular seven-bay structure located near the Blue Water Bridge. The building has wood siding, and is topped with a low gabled roof. The roof is supported by gracefully carved brackets. It has a variety of windows throughout the building, including ocular vent openings suggestive of the elegance of the Italian Villa Style.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119896", "title": "Peter Kramer", "text": "Peter Kramer\n\nPeter Kramer may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119906", "title": "Donington", "text": "Donington\n\nDonington is the name of a number of places in England:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119907", "title": "Arsen Dedić", "text": "Arsen Dedić\n\nArsenije \"Arsen\" Dedić (; 28 July 1938 – 17 August 2015) was a Croatian singer-songwriter. He wrote and performed chansons as well as film music. He was also an award-winning poet and was one of the best-selling poets of former Yugoslavia and Croatia.\n\nDedić was born in Šibenik, in the Littoral Banovina of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, today Šibenik-Knin County, in region of Dalmatia, within Republic of Croatia, as the second child of Jovan Dedić and Veronika (née Mišković). His father Jovan was an Orthodox Christian ethnic Serb, while his mother Veronika (\"nicknamed Jelka\") was a Croat who converted from Catholicism to Serb Orthodoxy after marrying Jovan. His father was a bricklayer, volunteer firefighter, and musician, while his mother was an illiterate housewife, whom Dedić later taught to write and read.\n\nDedić was baptized in the Serbian Orthodox Church under the name \"Arsenije\", after Serbian Archbishop Arsenije III Čarnojević. He finished music school. He and his older brother Milutin Dedić left Šibenik for Zagreb and Belgrade, respectively, in 1957. He studied law at Zagreb but dropped out in 1959, enrolling in the Music Academy of Zagreb, receiving a diploma in 1964.\n\nDedić became a household name in the 1960s, thanks to pop music festivals and his brand of music, which was at first influenced by Dalmatian folklore, but is mostly comparable to the French chanson genre. Throughout the decades Dedić became one of the most respected musicians in former SFR Yugoslavia and maintained that reputation all the way to the his death.\n\nAt the beginning of 2014, Dedić fell and had difficulties to walk, so he had to use a stick. Because of the unbearable pain in July 2015, he underwent surgery for hip endoprosthesis in the orthopedic hospital in Krapinske Toplice, followed by a two-week rehabilitation. On 28 July, he spent his 77th birthday with family and friends in Zagreb. At the end of July he got severe inflammation most likely as a complication after the surgery, for which he had the liver transplant since 2004 and had been under immunosuppressive therapy since then, and was taken to intensive care.\nAt first, his condition improved and the medical records were better.\n\nOn 8 August, it was reported that his inflammation had calmed down and responded well to drugs. He was expected to be released home, but his wife, Gabi Novak, found him in a serious condition lying on the floor next to the walkerand speaking indistinctly. He was admitted on the emergency neurology of KBC Zagreb, but his condition on 13 August drastically worsened. On 14 August, his lungs failed and he was attached to the respirator, but soon the other organs failed successively. Novak refused a high-risk surgery.\n\nDedić died at KBC Zagreb, at 9:00 pm, on 17 August 2015, at the age of 77. The commemoration was held at the Croatian National Theatre in Šibenik and at the Croatian Music Institute in Zagreb. He was cremated and buried, according to his own wishes, in the circle of his closest family, far from the public eyes, on 25 August 2015 at the Mirogoj Cemetery in Zagreb.\n\nDedić had a daughter Sandra from his first marriage with Vesna Suligoj, a grandniece of Antun Gustav Matoš, one of the greatest Croatian poets. Sandra is married to Alen Slavica, a popular singer-songwriter and they have daughter Ema, born in 2011. He married a German-born Croatian pop singer Gabi Novak in 1973. Their son Matija Dedić is one of the most respected jazz pianists in Croatia. He has a daughter Lu, with his wife Marina Scotti.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119922", "title": "Gabi Novak", "text": "Gabi Novak\n\nGabrijela \"Gabi\" Novak (; born 8 July 1936) is a prominent Croatian pop and jazz singer. She became famous in the 1960s. She was the wife of legendary Croatian singer-songwriter Arsen Dedić, with whom she was married from March 1973, until his death in August 2015.\n\nNovak was born in Berlin, to a Croat father, Đuro, who was born in Hvar, and a German mother, Elizabeth, who was also born in Berlin. \n\nShe spent her childhood in hometown, but later she moved to Yugoslavia, and her father was killed in 1945.\n\nShe was married to Stipica Kalogjera, a Croatian composer, but in 1970 they were divorced, and in March 1973 she was married Arsen Dedić, a renowned singer-songwriter who also composed many of her songs. The couple has one son, Matija, a renowned jazz pianist.\n\nGabi Novak is the winner of several Porin awards:\n\n"}
{"id": "2119931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119931", "title": "William Hurrell Mallock", "text": "William Hurrell Mallock\n\nWilliam Hurrell Mallock (7 February 1849 – 2 April 1923) was an English novelist and economics writer.\n\nA nephew of the historian Froude, he was educated privately and then at Balliol College, Oxford. He won the Newdigate Prize in 1872 for his poem \"The Isthmus of Suez\" and took a second class in the final classical schools in 1874, securing his Bachelor of Arts degree from Oxford University. Mallock never entered a profession, though at one time he considered the diplomatic service. He attracted considerable attention by his satirical novel, \"The New Republic\" (1877), conceived while he was a student at Oxford, in which he introduced characters easily recognized as such prominent individuals as Benjamin Jowett, Matthew Arnold, Violet Fane, Thomas Carlyle, and Thomas Henry Huxley. Although the book was not well received by critics at first, it did cause instant scandal, particularly concerning the portrait of literary scholar Walter Pater:\n\nMoreover, Pater was the subject of a cruel satire in W. H. Mallock's \"The New Republic\" which was published in \"Belgravia\" in 1876-7 and in book form in 1877. He appeared there as 'Mr. Rose'—an effete, impotent, sensualist with a perchant for erotic literature and beautiful young men.\n\nMallock's book appeared during the competition for the Oxford Professorship of Poetry and played a role in convincing Pater to remove himself from consideration. A few months later Pater published what may have been a subtle riposte: \"A Study of Dionysus: The Spiritual Form of Fire and Dew.\"\n\nHis keen logic and gift for acute exposition and criticism were displayed in later years both in fiction and in controversial works. In a series of books dealing with religious questions he insisted on dogma as the basis of religion and on the impossibility of founding religion on purely scientific data. In \"Is Life Worth Living\"? (1879) and the satirical novel \"The New Paul and Virginia\" (1878) he attacked positivist theories and defended the Roman Catholic Church; one of his uncles, Hurrell Froude, had been a founder of the Oxford Movement.\n\nIn a volume on the intellectual position of the Church of England, \"Doctrine and Doctrinal Disruption\" (1900), he advocated the necessity of a strictly defined creed. Later volumes on similar topics were \"Religion as a Credible Doctrine\" (1903) and \"The Reconstruction of Belief\" (1905). He also authored articles, being a frequent contributor to many newspapers and magazines, including \"The Forum,\" \"National Review,\" \"Public Opinion,\" \"Contemporary Review,\" and \"Harper’s Weekly.\" One in particular, directed against Thomas Huxley's agnosticism, appeared in the April 1889 issue of \"The Fortnightly Review,\" being Mallock's response to a controversy between, among others, Huxley and William Connor Magee, the Bishop of Peterborough.\n\nHe published several works on economics, directed against radical and socialist theories: \"Social Equality\" (1882), \"Property and Progress\" (1884), \"Labour and the Popular Welfare\" (1893), \"Classes and Masses\" (1896), \"Aristocracy and Evolution\" (1898), and \"A Critical Examination of Socialism\" (1908) – and later visited the United States in order to deliver a series of lectures on the subject:\n\nThe Civic Federation of New York, an influential body which aims, in various ways, at harmonising apparently divergent industrial interests in America, having decided on supplementing its other activities by a campaign of political and economic education, invited me, at the beginning of the year 1907, to initiate a scientific discussion of socialism in a series of lectures or speeches, to be delivered under the auspices of certain of the great Universities in the United States. This invitation I accepted, but, the project being a new one, some difficulty arose as to the manner in which it might best be carried out – whether the speeches or lectures should in each case be new, dealing with some fresh aspect of the subject, or whether they should be arranged in a single series to be repeated without substantial alteration in each of the cities visited by me. The latter plan was ultimately adopted, as tending to render the discussion of the subject more generally comprehensible to each local audience. A series of five lectures, substantially the same, was accordingly delivered by me in New York, Cambridge, Chicago, Philadelphia, and Baltimore.\n\nAmong his anti-socialist works should be classed his novel, \"The Old Order Changes\" (1886). His other novels are \"A Romance of the Nineteenth Century\" (1881), \"A Human Document\" (1892), \"The Heart of Life\" (1895), \"Tristram Lacy\" (1899), \"The Veil of the Temple\" (1904), and \"An Immortal Soul\" (1908).\n\nMallock is given prominent space in Russell Kirk's \"The Conservative Mind\":\n\nMallock is remembered chiefly for one book, \"The New Republic,\" and that his first, composed while he still was at Oxford – \"the most brilliant novel ever written by an undergraduate,\" says Professor Tillotson, justly. ... But other books of Mallock's are worth looking into still — his theological and philosophical studies, his didactic novels, his zealous volumes of political expostulation and social statistics, even his books of verse.\n\n\"He had astonishing acuteness, great argumentative power, wide and accurate knowledge, excellent style,\" Saintsbury says of Mallock. \"He might have seemed — he did seem, I believe, to some – to have in him the making of an Aristophanes or a Swift of not so much lessened degree... And yet after the chiefly scandalous success of \"The New Republic\" he never 'came off.' To attribute this to the principles he advocated is to nail on those who dislike those principles their own favourite gibe of 'the stupid party.'\" ... In the past two or three years, interest in Mallock has revived somewhat, probably stimulated by that conservative revival for which Mallock hoped, and the lines of which he predicted. \"Is Life Worth Living?\", \"Social Equality,\" and \"The Limits of Pure Democracy\", together with Mallock's charming autobiography, are especially deserving of attention from anyone interested in the conservative mind. Mallock died in 1923, half forgotten even then; but he has had no equal among English conservative thinkers since. He spent his life in a struggle against moral and political radicalism: for bulk and thoroughness, quite aside from Mallock's gifts of wit and style, his work is unexcelled among the body of conservative writings in any country. ... \n\n(H)e accomplished unassisted what the research staff of the Conservative Political Centre now carries on as a body. \"Throughout almost all his books is to be noticed the aspiration after a Truth which will give the soul something more than 'a dusty answer'; it is everywhere evident,\" says Sir John Squire. In the search for this truth, he assailed some of the most formidable personages of his day – Huxley, Spencer, Jowett, Kidd, Webb, Shaw. And none of these writers, not even Bernard Shaw, came off well from a bout with Mallock.\n\nHe published a volume of \"Poems\" in 1880. His 1878 book \"Lucretius\" included some verse translations from the Roman poet, which he followed with \"Lucretius on Life and Death\" in 1900, a book of verse paraphrases in a style modeled after the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam by Edward FitzGerald. (A second edition was issued in 1910.)\n\nIronically, this last work came to be highly regarded by freethinkers and other religious skeptics. Corliss Lamont includes portions of the third canto in his \"A Humanist Funeral Service\". Mallock himself, in his introduction, seems to be offering it, somewhat condescendingly, for the use of such non-Christians when he writes:Those, however, who... are adherents of the principles which [Lucretius] shares with the latest scientists of to-day, can hardly find the only hope which is open to them expressed by any writer with a loftier and more poignant dignity than that with which they will find it expressed by the Roman disciple of Epicurus.\n\nArtist Tom Phillips used Mallock's \"A Human Document\" as the basis for his project \"A Humument\", in which he took a copy of the novel and constructed a work of art using its pages.\n\nThe popular English novelist Ouida (Maria Louise Ramé) dedicated her book of essays \"Views and Opinions\" (1895) to Mallock — \"To W. H. Mallock. As a slight token of personal regard and intellectual admiration.\"\n\nAs editor\n\nTranslations\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119935", "title": "Geroy Simon", "text": "Geroy Simon\n\nGeroy Simon (born September 11, 1975) is a former professional Canadian football slotback who played 15 seasons in the Canadian Football League, twelve of them with the BC Lions. Simon won the CFL's Most Outstanding Player Award in 2006 while also winning three Grey Cup championships as a member of the BC Lions in 2006 and 2011 and with Saskatchewan in 2013. As of the 2013 CFL season, Simon is the all-time career leader in CFL receiving yards with 16,352 yards, second in pass receptions with 1,029 and third in touchdown receptions with 103.\n\nSimon was inducted into the Canadian Football Hall of Fame in 2017.\n\nSimon finished second on the University of Maryland's all-time charts for receptions (185) and receiving yards (2,059), and caught 10 career touchdown passes. As a senior, he caught 35 passes for 534 yards and 3 touchdowns. He had his best season as a sophomore, setting an ACC record with 77 catches for 891 yards and 5 touchdowns. That season, he also returned a kickoff 94 yards for a touchdown.\n\n1997: Spent part of the 1997 season on the NFL's Pittsburgh Steelers practice squad.\n\n1999–2000: Saw some time at slotback and wide receiver for the Winnipeg Blue Bombers, playing in 10 games in 1999 and all 18 regular season games in 2000. Simon caught 51 passes for 725 yards and 7 TDs in 2000, all career numbers at the time.\n\n2001: Joined the BC Lions as a free agent and served as a backup at the slotback position, seeing time in 6 games.\n\n2002: Led the Lions with 50 receptions in his first full season in the starting lineup, finishing with 754 yards. He also threw for a 71-yard touchdown toss in his only attempt of the season. He established career highs in kick returns with 51 punt returns for 464 yards, 19 kickoff returns for 385 yards and six missed field goal returns for 128 yards.\n\n2003: Recorded his first 1,000 yard receiving season with 1687 yards and was named both a Western and a CFL All-Star for the first time in his career. Named Offensive Player of the Week for Week #16. He also scored his first two-point conversion on a five-yard reception. For the second consecutive season, he threw a touchdown pass, this time for 52 yards. He also had a career-high seven carries for 135 yards and one rushing touchdown.\n\n2004: Became the third Lions player to record 100 receptions in a season with 103 catches. He broke Darren Flutie's BC Lions team record for single season receiving with 1,750 yards. Caught 3 passes for 31 yards in the 2004 Grey Cup. Received his second straight Western and CFL All-Star berth and was named Offensive Player of the Week in Week #9.\n\n2005: Led the Lions in receiving (both yards and receptions) for the third straight season. Ranked 4th in the CFL in receiving yards with 1,322 and 5th in receptions with 89. Set an all-time Lions playoff record with a 90-yard reception for a touchdown against Edmonton in the 2005 West Final.\n\n2006: Simon led the CFL in receiving yards and receptions, with 1,856 yards on 105 receptions and 15 touchdowns, all of which are career highs. Consequently, he broke his own team receiving yards record that he set in 2004. He also tied the CFL record for most 100 yard receiving games in a season with 11. Evidenced by his dominant play, Simon was named the CFL Offensive Player of the Month for both September and October. For his efforts on the season, Simon was named the Most Outstanding Player of the CFL for the 2006 season. He capped off the season by contributing four catches for 41 yards in the BC Lions' 2006 Grey Cup win.\n\n2007: Simon had a difficult start to the season, accumulating only 449 yards and one touchdown through ten games. However, it turned out that he had saved his best for last and caught 38 passes for 859 yards and six touchdowns in the final eight games, incidentally, all wins for the Lions. He set a personal best 18.2 yard average per catch and claimed his second straight receiving title with a 211-yard performance in the final game of the season.\n\n2008: On July 25, 2008, in a home game against the Montreal Alouettes, Simon surpassed Jim \"Dirty 30\" Young for the number one spot as the Lions all-time receiving yards receiver. He finished the season with 10,262 career receiving yards. He also became the Lions all-time receiving touchdown leader surpassing Young's 65 with his 66th touchdown on September 27, 2008 versus the Hamilton Tiger-Cats. He finished the season with eight 100 yard receiving games and finished second in receiving despite missing two games with injury.\n\n2009: With the release of Jason Clermont before the 2009 CFL season, Simon and Paris Jackson were the only remaining 1,000-yard receivers on the 2009 BC Lions team and Simon routinely faced double and triple coverage by opponents reducing his receptions. Nonetheless, Simon had 79 receptions for 1,239 yards, securing his seventh straight 1,000-yard receiving yards season. This was also his seventh consecutive season in which he led the Lions in receiving yards.\n\n2010: Simon recorded his eighth straight 1,000-yard receiving yard season in 2010, amassing 1,190 yards on 78 catches with six touchdowns.\n\n2011: On September 10, Simon passed Willie Fleming as the Lions' all-time touchdown leader after he scored his 88th touchdown as a Lion in the last game to be played at Empire Field. He came into the season needing 1417 receiving yards to pass Milt Stegall as the CFL's all-time leader in receiving yardage. While finishing just short, he nonetheless had an all-star season, recording 84 catches for 1350 yards and eight touchdowns. Simon played in the 99th Grey Cup, catching four passes for 79 yards en route to a 34-23 Lions' victory and the second Grey Cup championship of his career.\n\n2012: On June 29, while playing against the Winnipeg Blue Bombers and with the former record holder Milt Stegall in attendance, Simon became the all-time CFL career reception yards leader.\n\n2013: On January 24, Simon was traded to the Saskatchewan Roughriders in exchange for receiver Justin Harper and Saskatchewan's third round pick in the 2014 CFL Draft. On the same day, the Saskatchewan Roughriders signed Simon to a contract for one year plus an option worth $170,000 per year plus bonuses. Geroy Simon missed the first 3 weeks of the 2013 CFL season with a lower body injury. On August 17, 2013 (Week 8) Simon became the 3rd player in CFL history to have 1,000 career receptions: The other players are Ben Cahoon and Terry Vaughn In Week 9 (1 week later) Simon became the first CFL player to have 16,000 receiving yards. In Week 14, against the Montreal Alouettes, Simon became the CFL's all time receptions leader. He surpassed Ben Cahoon's record of 1,017 career receptions. Simon would finish the season on a winning note catching two touchdown passes in the biggest game of the year en route to the Roughriders winning their fourth Grey Cup championship. On May 31, 2014, it was reported that Simon would announce his retirement as a Saskatchewan Roughrider. On June 1, Roughriders general manager Brendan Taman said his football playing career was done.\n\nBefore ultimately choosing football as a career, Simon enjoyed great success as a basketball player at a young age. He also took up baseball and track, but became attracted to football after watching Walter Payton. Envisioning a career in professional football, he accepted a scholarship offer from the University of Maryland. During his spare time, Simon listens to B.B. King, watches SportsCentre, and plays pool. He also coaches his son's minor football team. Geroy lives in Langley, British Columbia, during the season With two children Jaden, and Jordan. The BC Lions Football team announced Tracy Simon had died on April 30, 2017.\nHis eldest son Gervon, who was born when Geroy was a freshman at Maryland, was formerly the starting quarterback at Greater Johnstown High School - Geroy's alma mater - who finished as the all-time passing yards leader.\n\nAfter he ended his playing career in 2013, he stayed with the Saskatchewan Roughriders in a front office role. He returned to the BC Lions in 2015, and is currently the team's director of scouting.\n\nIn 2012, in honour of the 100th Grey Cup, Canada Post used his image on a series of commemorative postage stamps. The image was also used on presentation posters and other materials to promote the Grey Cup game and other celebrations associated with the centennial.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119936", "title": "USS Laffey (DD-724)", "text": "USS Laffey (DD-724)\n\nUSS \"Laffey\" (DD-724) is an , which was constructed during World War II, laid down and launched in 1943, and commissioned in February 1944. The ship earned the nickname \"The Ship That Would Not Die\" for her exploits during the D-Day invasion and the battle of Okinawa when she successfully withstood a determined assault by conventional bombers and the most unrelenting \"kamikaze\" air attacks in history. Today, \"Laffey\" is a U.S. National Historic Landmark and is preserved as a museum ship at Patriots Point, outside Charleston, South Carolina.\n\n\"Laffey\" was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for Bartlett Laffey. Seaman Laffey was awarded the Medal of Honor for his stand against Confederate forces on 5 March 1864.\n\n\"Laffey's\" keel was laid down on 28 June 1943 by Bath Iron Works Corp., Bath, Maine; launched on 21 November; sponsored by Ms. Beatrice F. Laffey, daughter of Seaman Laffey; and commissioned on 8 February 1944, with Commander Frederick Becton in command.\n\nUpon completion of underway training, \"Laffey\" visited Washington Navy Yard for one day and departed on 28 February 1944, arriving in Bermuda on 4 March. She returned briefly to Naval Station Norfolk, where she served as a school ship, then headed for New York City to join the screen of a convoy escort bound for England on 14 May. Refueling at Greenock, Scotland, the ship continued on to Plymouth, England, arriving on 27 May.\n\n\"Laffey\" immediately prepared for the invasion of France. On 3 June, she headed for the Normandy beaches escorting tugs, landing craft, and two Dutch gunboats. The group arrived in the assault area, off Utah beach, Baie de la Seine, France, at dawn on D-Day, 6 June 1944. On 6–7 June, \"Laffey\" screened to seaward, and on 8–9 June, she successfully bombarded gun emplacements. Leaving the screen temporarily, \"Laffey\" raced to Plymouth to replenish and returned to the coast of Normandy the next day. On 12 June, pursuing enemy E-boats that had torpedoed the destroyer , \"Laffey\" broke up their tight formation, preventing further attacks.\n\nScreening duties completed, \"Laffey\" returned to England, arriving at Portsmouth on 22 June, where she tied up alongside the battleship . On 25 June, she got underway with the battleship to join Bombardment Group 2 shelling the formidable defenses at Cherbourg-Octeville. Upon reaching the bombardment area, the group was taken under fire by shore batteries; destroyers and were hit. \"Laffey\" was hit above the waterline by a ricocheting shell, but it failed to explode and did little damage.\n\nLate that day, the bombardment group retired and headed for Northern Ireland, arriving at Belfast on 1 July 1944. She sailed with Destroyer Division 119 (DesDiv 119) three days later for home, arriving at Boston on 9 July. After a month of overhaul, the destroyer got underway to test her newly installed electronic equipment. Two weeks later, \"Laffey\" set course for Norfolk, arriving on 25 August.\nThe next day, \"Laffey\" departed for Hawaii via the Panama Canal and San Diego, California, arriving at Pearl Harbor in September. On 23 October, after extensive training, \"Laffey\" departed for the war zone via Eniwetok, mooring at Ulithi on 5 November. The same day, she joined the screen of Task Force 38 (TF 38), then conducting airstrikes against enemy shipping, aircraft, and airfields in the Philippines. On 11 November, she spotted a parachute, left the screen, and rescued a badly wounded Japanese pilot who was transferred to the aircraft carrier during refueling operations the next day. \"Laffey\" returned to Ulithi on 22 November, and on 27 November set course for Leyte Gulf with ships of Destroyer Squadron 60 (DesRon 60). Operating with the 7th Fleet, \"Laffey\" screened the big ships against submarine and air attacks, covered the landings at Ormoc Bay on 7 December, silenced a shore battery, and shelled enemy troop concentrations.\n\nAfter a short upkeep in San Pedro Bay, Leyte on 8 December, \"Laffey\" with ships of Close Support Group 77.3 departed on 12 December for Mindoro, where she supported the landings on 15 December. After the beachhead had been established, \"Laffey\" escorted empty landing craft back to Leyte, arriving at San Pedro Bay on 17 December. Ten days later, \"Laffey\" joined Task Group 77.3 (TG 77.3) for patrol duty off Mindoro. After returning briefly to San Pedro Bay, she rejoined the 7th Fleet, and during the month of January 1945 screened amphibious ships landing troops in the Lingayen Gulf area of Luzon. Retiring to the Caroline Islands, \"Laffey\" arrived at Ulithi on 27 January. In February, she supported TF 58, conducting diversionary air strikes on Tokyo and direct air support of Marines fighting on Iwo Jima. Late in February, \"Laffey\" carried vital intelligence information to Fleet Admiral Chester Nimitz at Guam, arriving on 1 March.\n\nThe next day, \"Laffey\" arrived at Ulithi for intensive training with battleships of Task Force 54 (TF 54). On 21 March, she sortied with the task force for the invasion of Okinawa. \"Laffey\" helped capture Kerama Retto, bombarded shore establishments, harassed the enemy with fire at night and screened heavy units.\n\nOn 16 April 1945, \"Laffey\" was assigned to radar picket station 1 about north of Okinawa, and joined in repulsing an air attack which downed 13 enemy aircraft that day. The next day, the Japanese launched another air attack with some 50 planes:\n\n\nMeanwhile, four FM-2 Wildcats took off from the escort carrier , attempting to intercept \"kamikazes\" attacking \"Laffey\". One of the Wildcat pilots, Carl Rieman, made a dive into the \"kamikaze\" formation and targeted a D3A. His wingman took out that dive bomber while Rieman lined up behind another D3A, opened fire, and destroyed the enemy aircraft. Ten seconds later, Rieman pursued a Nakajima B5N torpedo plane, fired, and killed the Japanese pilot. Only five seconds later, Rieman lined up behind another B5N and expended the last of his ammunition. As Rieman returned to his carrier, he made diving passes at \"kamikazes\", forcing some of them to break off their attacks. The other three Wildcats destroyed a few aircraft and then interfered with the enemy's attack runs after they exhausted their ammunition until forced to return to \"Shamrock Bay\" when their fuel ran too low to stay. Later on, a group of 12 American Vought F4U Corsair fighters of the United States Marine Corps intercepted the \"kamikazes\". Their actions were of significant help for the \"Laffey\".\n\nAnother D3A approached the disabled \"Laffey\" from port. A Corsair pursued the \"kamikaze\" and destroyed it after forcing it to overshoot the ship. The Corsair lined up behind a Ki-43 'Oscar' making a strafing approach on \"Laffey\" from starboard. One of \"Laffey\"s gunners hit the Oscar, causing it to crash into the ship's mast and fall into the water. The pursuing Corsair also crashed into the ship's radar antenna and fell into the water, but the pilot was later rescued by \"LCS-51\".\n\nAnother D3A came from the stern and dropped a bomb detonating off the port side. The D3A was later destroyed by a Corsair. The Corsair quickly lined up behind another D3A and fired; but the bomb from the second D3A hit and destroyed one of \"Laffey\"s 40 mm gun mounts, killing all its gunners. The Corsair lined up behind two Oscars approaching from the bow, took out one, and was shot down by the other. The surviving Oscar was then shot down by \"Laffey\"s gunners. \"Laffey\"s main battery destroyed a D3A approaching from starboard. The last attacker, a D4Y, was shot down by a Corsair.\n\n\"Laffey\" survived despite being badly damaged by four bombs, six \"kamikaze\" crashes, and strafing fire that killed 32 and wounded 71. Assistant communications officer Lt. Frank Manson asked Captain Becton if he thought they'd have to abandon ship, to which he snapped, \"No! I'll never abandon ship as long as a single gun will fire.\" Becton did not hear a nearby lookout softly say, \"And if I can find one man to fire it.\"\n\n\"Laffey\" was then taken under tow and anchored off Okinawa on 17 April 1945. Temporary repairs were rushed and the destroyer sailed for Saipan, arriving on 27 April. Four days later, she got underway for the west coast via Eniwetok and Hawaii, arriving at Tacoma, Washington on 24 May. She entered drydock at Todd Shipyard Corp. for repair until 6 September, then sailed for San Diego, arriving on 9 September.\n\nTwo days later, \"Laffey\" got underway for exercises but collided with the submarine chaser in a thick fog. She rescued all but one of the PC's crew before returning to San Diego for repairs.\n\nOn 5 October, she sailed for Pearl Harbor, arriving on 11 October. \"Laffey\" operated in Hawaiian waters until 21 May 1946, when she participated in Operation Crossroads, the atomic bomb tests at Bikini Atoll, actively engaged in collecting scientific data. Radioactive decontamination of \"Laffey\" required the \"sandblasting and painting of all underwater surfaces, and acid washing and partial replacement of salt-water piping and evaporators.\" Upon completion of decontamination, she sailed for the west coast via Pearl Harbor arriving San Diego on 22 August for operations along the west coast.\n\nIn February 1947, \"Laffey\" made a cruise to Guam and Kwajalein and returned to Pearl Harbor on 11 March. She operated in Hawaiian waters until departing for Australia on 1 May. \"Laffey\" returned to San Diego on 17 June, was decommissioned on 30 June 1947, and entered the Pacific Reserve Fleet.\n\n\"Laffey\" was recommissioned on 26 January 1951, with Commander Charles Holovak in command. After shakedown out of San Diego, she headed for the east coast of the US, arriving at Norfolk in February for overhaul followed by refresher training at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. In mid January 1952, she sailed for Korea, arriving in March. \"Laffey\" operated with TF 77 screening carriers and .\n\nIn May, with Captain Henry J. Conger in command, \"Laffey\" she took part in the blockade of Wonsan in Korea.\n\nAfter a brief refit at Yokosuka on 30 May, \"Laffey\" returned to Korea where she rejoined TF 77. On 22 June, she sailed for the east coast, transiting the Suez Canal and arriving Norfolk on 19 August.\n\n\"Laffey\" operated in the Caribbean with a hunter-killer group until February 1954, departing on a world cruise which included a tour off Korea until 29 June. \"Laffey\" departed the Far East bound for the east coast via the Suez Canal arriving Norfolk on 25 August. Operating out of Norfolk, she participated in fleet exercises and plane guard duties and on 7 October rescued four passengers from \"Able\", a schooner that had sunk in a storm off the Virginia Capes.\n\nDuring the first part of 1955, \"Laffey\" participated in extensive antisubmarine exercises, visiting: Halifax, Nova Scotia; New York City; Miami; and ports in the Caribbean. In 1958, she operated with ASW carriers in Floridian and Caribbean waters.\n\nOn 7 November 1956, \"Laffey\" departed Norfolk and headed for the Mediterranean at the height of the Suez Crisis. Upon arrival, she joined the 6th Fleet which was patrolling the Israeli-Egyptian border. When international tensions eased, \"Laffey\" returned to Norfolk on 20 February 1957, and resumed operations along the Atlantic coast. She departed on 3 September for NATO operations off Scotland. She then headed for the Mediterranean and rejoined the 6th Fleet. \"Laffey\" returned to Norfolk on 22 December. In June 1958, she made a cruise to the Caribbean for a major exercise.\n\nReturning to Norfolk the next month, \"Laffey\" resumed regular operations until 7 August 1959, when she deployed with DesRon 32 for the Mediterranean. \"Laffey\" transited the Suez Canal on 14 December, stopped at Massawa, Eritrea, and continued on to the Aramco loading port of Ras Tanura, Saudi Arabia, where she spent Christmas. \"Laffey\" operated in the Persian Gulf until late January 1960, when she transited the Suez Canal and headed for home, arriving at Norfolk on 28 February. \"Laffey\" then operated out of Norfolk, making a Caribbean cruise. In mid-August, she participated in a large naval NATO exercise. In October, she visited Antwerp, Belgium, returning to Norfolk on 20 October, but headed back to the Mediterranean in January 1961.\n\nWhile there, she assisted MV Dara, a British freighter in distress. \"Laffey\" sailed for home in mid-August and arrived at Norfolk on 28 August. \"Laffey\" set out in September on a vigorous training program designed to blend the crew into an effective fighting team and continued this training until February 1963, when she assumed the duties of service ship for the Norfolk Test and Evaluation Detachment. From October 1963 - June 1964, \"Laffey\" operated with a hunter-killer group along the eastern seaboard, and on 12 June made a midshipmen cruise to the Mediterranean, arriving in Palma de Mallorca on 23 June. Two days later, the task group departed for a surveillance mission observing Soviet naval forces training in the Mediterranean. \"Laffey\" visited Mediterranean ports of Naples, Italy; Théoule, France; Rota and Valencia, Spain, returning to Norfolk on 3 September. \"Laffey\" continued to make regular Mediterranean cruises with the 6th Fleet and participated in numerous operational and training exercises in the Atlantic and Caribbean.\n\n\"Laffey\" was decommissioned and stricken on 9 March 1975. She was the last of the \"Sumner\" class destroyers to be decommissioned.\n\n\"Laffey\" received the Presidential Unit Citation and five battle stars for World War II service, the Korean Presidential Unit Citation and two battle stars for Korean War service, the Meritorious Unit Commendation during the Cold War, and the Battle \"E\" during all three conflicts.\n\n\"Laffey\" was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1986, at which time she was recognized as the only remaining US-owned Sumner-class destroyer, and for her spirited survival of the kamikaze attack.\n\n\"Laffey\" is currently a museum ship at Patriots Point in Mount Pleasant, South Carolina, alongside two other US National Historic Landmarks: the aircraft carrier and submarine . In October 2008, it was discovered that over 100 leaks had sprung up in \"Laffey\"s hull, and officials at Patriots Point were afraid that the ship would sink at her mooring. An estimated $9 million was needed to tow the ship to dry dock for repairs, prompting Patriots Point officials to secure a $9.2 million loan from the state of South Carolina to cover the costs. On 19 August 2009, she was towed to Detyens Shipyards in North Charleston on the Cooper River for repair in drydock. The rust-eaten, corroded hull was repaired with thicker plating, miles of welding, and new paint. On 16 April 2010, the Board of Trustees of Clemson University reached a lease agreement for Patriots Point organization to moor \"Laffey\" adjacent to Clemson's property at the former Naval Base Charleston in North Charleston. \"Laffey\" was returned to Patriots Point on 25 January 2012 with more than a dozen former crew members among the crowd on hand to greet her. Said one veteran, \"This means a lot of years of fighting to get her saved again. The Germans tried to sink her. The Japanese tried to sink her and then she tried to sink herself sitting here. She's whipped them all and she's back again.\" It cost $1.1 million to return the ship and to make repairs to accommodate her in a new berth at the front of the museum.\n\nIn 2007, the attack on \"Laffey\" was recreated using computer graphics for the History Channel series \"Dogfights\". The episode first aired on July 13, 2007. \n\nIn May 2018, it was officially announced that Mel Gibson would direct a major feature film about the attack on \"Laffey\" titled \"Destroyer\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119943", "title": "Friedrich Bernhard", "text": "Friedrich Bernhard\n\nFriedrich Bernhard (October 5, 1888 – December 29, 1945) was a German Lieutenant-General of the Cavalry, serving during World War II as a Panzer commander; he was a recipient of the German Cross in Gold on 17 March 1944. He held command of Special Corps 532 in the 9th Army. Captured by the Red Army, he was sentenced to death by a Soviet military tribunal at Bryansk on December 29, 1945 for atrocities committed in the Bryansk area, and executed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119945", "title": "Mucrospirifer", "text": "Mucrospirifer\n\nMucrospirifer is a genus of extinct brachiopods in the class Rhynchonellata (Articulata) and the order Spiriferida. They are sometimes known as \"butterfly shells\". Like other brachiopods, they were filter feeders. These fossils occur mainly in Middle Devonian strata and appear to occur around the world, except in Australia and Antarctica.\n\nThe biconvex shell was typically 2.5 cm long, but sometimes grew to 4 cm. The shell of \"Mucrospirifer\" has a fold, sulcus and costae. It is greatly elongated along the hinge line, which extends outward to form sharp points. This gives them a fin- or wing-like appearance. The apex area (umbo) of the pedicle valve contains a small fold for the pedicle. \"Mucrospirifer\" lived in muddy marine sediments, and were attached to the sea floor via the pedicle. The shell sometimes looks like two seashells stuck together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119957", "title": "Mikheil Gelovani", "text": "Mikheil Gelovani\n\nMikheil Gelovani (, Russified as Михаи́л Гео́ргиевич Гелова́ни, \"Mikhail Georgievich Gelovani\"; – December 21, 1956) was a Georgian-Soviet actor, known for his numerous portrayals of Joseph Stalin in cinema, starring in fifteen historic movies mostly about the early Soviet era.\n\nMikheil Gelovani was a descendant of the old Georgian princely house of Gelovani. He made his stage debut in a theater in Batumi during 1913. From 1919 to 1920, he attended the Drama Studio in Tiflis. In the two following years, he was a member of the cast in the city's Rustaveli Theatre. From 1923, he worked as an actor and a director in Georgian SSR's Goskinprom film studio. In 1924, he first appeared on screen in the film \"Three Lives\". He moved to the Armenian SSR's Armenkino production unit in 1927. In addition to his cinematic work, Gelovani continued to appear in theater, and performed on stages in Kutaisi and Baku. In 1936 he returned to the ensemble of the Rustaveli Theatre, and remained there for three years.\n\nIn 1938, Gelovani first portrayed Stalin in Mikheil Chiaureli's \"The Great Dawn\". His performance won him the Order of the Red Banner of Labour on 1 February 1939 and the Stalin Prize during 1941. Afterwards, Gelovani \"established a monopoly on the role of Stalin\", which he continued to portray in twelve other pictures until the premier's death. Gelovani greatly resembled Stalin physically, except in his stature: he was much taller than the latter. Reportedly, he was not the premier's favorite candidate for depicting himself on screen: since he was Georgian, he mimicked Stalin's accent \"to perfection\". Therefore, the leader personally preferred Aleksei Dikiy, who used classic Russian pronunciation. However, Gelovani appeared in his role much more than Dikiy. According to \"The Guinness Book of Movie Facts and Feats\", Gelovani had probably portrayed the same historical figure more than any other actor. When the two met, the general secretary told the actor: \"you are observing me thoroughly... You do not waste time, do you?\"\n\nSoviet cinema played an important part in cultivating the leader's cult of personality: from 1937 and onward, in a gradual process, Stalin's reign was legitimized by depicting him as Vladimir Lenin's most devout follower and by positively presenting historical autocrats - like in Sergei Eisenstein's \"Ivan the Terrible\".\n\nDue to his identification with Stalin, Gelovani was barred from playing other roles in cinema; he was not allowed to depict \"mere mortals\". From 1942 to 1948, he was a member of the cast in the Gorky Moscow Art Theatre. During World War II, the personality cult was abandoned in favor of patriotic motifs, but returned already at the war's late stages, and with greater intensity than ever after 1945: Stalin was soon credited as the sole architect of victory. In the postwar films in which he portrayed him – \"The Vow\", \"The Fall of Berlin\" and \"The Unforgettable Year 1919\" – Gelovani presented the leader as \"a living god\".\n\nThe actor was awarded three more Stalin Prizes, all of which were granted for his performances of the premier in film: in 1942 for \"The Defence of Tsaritsyn\", in 1947 for \"The Vow\" and in 1950 for \"The Fall of Berlin\". On 3 June 1950, he was given the title People's Artist of the USSR.\n\nAfter Stalin's death in 1953, Gelovani was denied new roles in films, since he was completely identified with the character of the dead ruler. From 1953 until his death in 1956, he acted in Moscow's . Andreas Kilb wrote that he ended his life \"a pitiful \"Kagemusha\"\" of Stalin. Gelovani is buried in the Novodevichy Cemetery, alongside his wife Ludmila.\n\nFollowing Nikita Khrushchev's Secret Speech in 1956, most of the pictures he appeared in as Stalin were either banned or had the relevant scenes removed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119962", "title": "John T. Newton", "text": "John T. Newton\n\nCommodore John Thomas Newton (20 May 1793 – 28 July 1857) was an officer in the United States Navy. \n\nBorn in Alexandria, Virginia, Newton commanded \"Beagle\" on her maiden voyage to the Caribbean. Newton was in command of \"Missouri\" during her historic crossing of the Atlantic, the first by a steam-power vessel. As commodore, he commanded the Home Squadron from March 1852 until March 1855.\n\nNewton died in Washington, D.C., aged 64.\n"}
{"id": "2119963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119963", "title": "Ivica Šerfezi", "text": "Ivica Šerfezi\n\nIvan \"Ivica\" Šerfezi (1 December 1935 – 29 May 2004) was a Croatian pop singer hailing from Zagreb.\n\nIvan \"Ivica\" Šerfezi started singing in dance halls, and his first real success was a duet with Domenico Modugno at the Maksimir Stadium, Zagreb (Modugno had a worldwide hit song, \"Volare\"). In the 1960s and the 1970s Šerfezi made many tours throughout Yugoslavia, East Germany, as well as the Soviet Union, and his concerts filled up 150 venues.\n\nHis songs were often influenced by Mexican and Greek folk music. The primary composers of his songs were Ivica Krajač and Nikica Kalogjera. Some of his hit songs included \"Suze liju plave oči\" (Croatian version of the Willie Nelson classic, \"Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain\"), \"Ruže su crvene\" (Croatian version of the Bobby Vinton classic, \"Roses are Red\"), \"Ksimeroni\", \"Elada\", etc.\n\nHis career lasted for 46 years and he had 15 gold records. He also sang many duets with the very popular female Macedonian singer, Ljupka Dimitrovska.\n\nŠerfezi was nicknamed \"Šerfa\", and called \"the golden boy of home show business\". He was an avid tennis and golf player, and in later years also a politician. In 2001, as a longtime supporter of the Croatian Peasant Party, he ran as that party's candidate on the elections for Zagreb City Assembly, but his list failed to enter the Assembly.\n\nŠerfezi died in May 2004, just months after he had been diagnosed with stomach cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119964", "title": "History of Scandinavia", "text": "History of Scandinavia\n\nThe history of Scandinavia is the history of the geographical region of Scandinavia and its peoples. The region is in northern Europe, and consists of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. Finland and Iceland are at times, especially in English-speaking contexts, considered part of Scandinavia.\n\nLittle evidence remains in Scandinavia of the Stone Age, the Bronze Age, or the Iron Age except limited numbers of tools created from stone, bronze, and iron, some jewelry and ornaments, and stone burial cairns. One important collection that exists, however, is a widespread and rich collection of stone drawings known as petroglyphs.\n\nAs the ice receded, reindeer grazed on the flat lands of Denmark and southernmost Sweden. This was the land of the Ahrensburg culture, tribes who hunted over vast territories and lived in lavvus on the tundra. There was little forest in this region except for arctic white birch and rowan, but the taiga slowly appeared.\n\nFrom c. 9,000 to 6,000 BP (Middle to Late Mesolithic), Scandinavia was populated by mobile or semi-sedentary groups about whom little is known. They subsisted by hunting, fishing and gathering. Approximately 200 burial sites have been investigated in the region from this period of 3,000 years.\n\nIn the 7th millennium BC, when the reindeer and their hunters had moved for northern Scandinavia, forests had been established in the land. The Maglemosian culture lived in Denmark and southern Sweden. To the north, in Norway and most of southern Sweden, lived the Fosna-Hensbacka culture, who lived mostly along the edge of the forest. The northern hunter/gatherers followed the herds and the salmon runs, moving south during the winters, moving north again during the summers. These early peoples followed cultural traditions similar to those practised throughout other regions in the far north – areas including modern Finland, Russia, and across the Bering Strait into the northernmost strip of North America.\n\nDuring the 6th millennium BC, southern Scandinavia was covered in temperate broadleaf and mixed forests. Fauna included aurochs, wisent, moose and red deer. The Kongemose culture was dominant in this time period. They hunted seals and fished in the rich waters. North of the Kongemose people lived other hunter-gatherers in most of southern Norway and Sweden called the Nøstvet and Lihult cultures, descendants of the Fosna and Hensbacka cultures. Near the end of the 6th millennium BC, the Kongemose culture was replaced by the Ertebølle culture in the south.\n\nDuring the 5th millennium BC, the Ertebølle people learned pottery from neighbouring tribes in the south, who had begun to cultivate the land and keep animals. They too started to cultivate the land, and by 3000 BC they became part of the megalithic Funnelbeaker culture. During the 4th millennium BC, these Funnelbeaker tribes expanded into Sweden up to Uppland. The Nøstvet and Lihult tribes learnt new technology from the advancing farmers (but not agriculture) and became the Pitted Ware cultures towards the end of the 4th millennium BC. These Pitted Ware tribes halted the advance of the farmers and pushed them south into southwestern Sweden, but some say that the farmers were not killed or chased away, but that they voluntarily joined the Pitted Ware culture and became part of them. At least one settlement appears to be mixed, the Alvastra pile-dwelling.\n\nIt is not known what language these early Scandinavians spoke, but towards the end of the 3rd millennium BC, they were overrun by new tribes who many scholars think spoke Proto-Indo-European, the Battle-Axe culture. This new people advanced up to Uppland and the Oslofjord, and they probably provided the language that was the ancestor of the modern Scandinavian languages. They were cattle herders, and with them most of southern Scandinavia entered the Neolithic.\n\nEven though Scandinavians joined the European Bronze Age cultures fairly late through trade, Scandinavian sites present rich and well-preserved objects made of wool, wood and imported Central European bronze and gold. During this period Scandinavia gave rise to the first known advanced civilization in this area following the Nordic Stone Age. The Scandinavians adopted many central European and Mediterranean symbols at the same time that they created new styles and objects. Mycenaean Greece, the Villanovan Culture, Phoenicia and Ancient Egypt have all been identified as possible sources of influence in Scandinavian artwork from this period. The foreign influence is believed to originate with amber trade, and amber found in Mycenaean graves from this period originates from the Baltic Sea. Several petroglyphs depict ships, and the large stone formations known as stone ships indicate that shipping played an important role in the culture. Several petroglyphs depict ships which could possibly be Mediterranean.\n\nFrom this period there are many mounds and fields of petroglyphs, but their signification is long since lost. There are also numerous artifacts of bronze and gold. The rather crude appearance of the petroglyphs compared to the bronze works have given rise to the theory that they were produced by different cultures or different social groups. No written language existed in the Nordic countries during the Bronze Age.\n\nThe Nordic Bronze Age was characterized by a warm climate (which is compared to that of the Mediterranean), which permitted a relatively dense population, but it ended with a climate change consisting of deteriorating, wetter and colder climate (sometimes believed to have given rise to the legend of the Fimbulwinter) and it seems very likely that the climate pushed the Germanic tribes southwards into continental Europe. During this time there was Scandinavian influence in Eastern Europe. A thousand years later, the numerous East Germanic tribes that claimed Scandinavian origins (Burgundians, Goths and Heruls), as did the Lombards, rendered Scandinavia (Scandza) the name \"womb of nations\" in Jordanes' \"Getica\".\n\nThe Nordic Bronze Age ended with a deteriorating, colder and wetter climate. This period is known for being poor in archaeological finds.\n\nThis is also the period when the Germanic tribes became known to the Mediterranean world and the Romans. In 113–101 BC two Germanic tribes originating from Jutland, in modern-day Denmark, attacked the Roman Republic in what is today known as the Cimbrian War. These two tribes, the Cimbri and the Teutons, initially inflicted the heaviest losses that Rome had suffered since the Second Punic War. The Cimbri and the Teutons were eventually defeated by the Roman legions.\n\nInitially iron was valuable and was used for decoration. The oldest objects were needles, but swords and sickles are found as well. Bronze continued to be used during the whole period but was mostly used for decoration. The traditions were a continuity from the Nordic Bronze Age, but there were strong influences from the Hallstatt culture in Central Europe. They continued with the Urnfield culture tradition of burning corpses and placing the remains in urns. During the last centuries, influences from the Central European La Tène culture spread to Scandinavia from northwestern Germany, and there are finds from this period from all the provinces of southern Scandinavia. From this time archaeologists have found swords, shieldbosses, spearheads, scissors, sickles, pincers, knives, needles, buckles, kettles, etc. Bronze continued to be used for torques and kettles, the style of which were a continuity from the Bronze Age. One of the most prominent finds is the Dejbjerg wagon from Jutland, a four-wheeled wagon of wood with bronze parts.\n\nWhile many Germanic tribes sustained continued contact with the culture and military presence of the Roman Empire, much of Scandinavia existed on the most extreme periphery of the Latin world. With the exception of the passing references to the Swedes (Suiones) and the Geats (Gautoi), much of Scandinavia remained unrecorded by Roman authors.\n\nIn Scandinavia, there was a great import of goods, such as coins (more than 7,000), vessels, bronze images, glass beakers, enameled buckles, weapons, etc. Moreover, the style of metal objects and clay vessels was markedly Roman. Some objects appeared for the first time, such as shears and pawns.\n\nThere are also many bog bodies from this time in Denmark, Schleswig and southern Sweden. Together with the bodies, there are weapons, household wares and clothes of wool. Great ships made for rowing have been found from the 4th century in Nydam mosse in Schleswig. Many were buried without burning, but the burning tradition later regained its popularity.\n\nThrough the 5th century and 6th century, gold and silver became more common. Much of this can be attributed to the ransacking of the Roman Empire by Germanic tribes, from which many Scandinavians returned with gold and silver.\n\nThe period succeeding the fall of the Roman Empire is known as the Germanic Iron Age, and it is divided into the early Germanic Iron and the late Germanic Iron Age, which in Sweden is known as the Vendel Age, with rich burials in the basin of Lake Mälaren. The early Germanic Iron Age is the period when the Danes appear in history, and according to Jordanes, they were of the same stock as the Swedes (\"suehans\", \"suetidi\") and had replaced the Heruls.\n\nDuring the fall of the Roman empire, there was an abundance of gold that flowed into Scandinavia, and there are excellent works in gold from this period. Gold was used to make scabbard mountings and bracteates; notable examples are the Golden horns of Gallehus.\n\nAfter the Roman Empire had disappeared, gold became scarce and Scandinavians began to make objects of gilded bronze, with decorations of interlacing animals in Scandinavian style. The early Germanic Iron Age decorations show animals that are rather faithful anatomically, but in the late Germanic Iron Age they evolve into intricate shapes with interlacing and interwoven limbs that are well known from the Viking Age.\n\nIn February 2020, Secrets of the Ice Program researchers discovered a 1,500-year-old Viking arrowhead  dating back to the Germanic Iron age and locked in a glacier in southern Norway caused by the climate change in the Jotunheimen Mountains. The arrowhead made of iron was revealed with its cracked wooden shaft and a feather, is 17 cm long and weighs just 28 grams.\n\nSince prehistoric times, the Sami people of Arctic Europe have lived and worked in an area that stretches over the northern parts of the regions now known as Norway, Sweden, Finland, and the Russian Kola Peninsula. They have inhabited the northern arctic and sub-arctic regions of Fenno-Scandinavia and Russia for at least 5,000 years. The Sami are counted among the Arctic peoples and are members of circumpolar groups such as the Arctic Council Indigenous Peoples' Secretariat.\n\nPetroglyphs and archeological findings such as settlements dating from about 10,000 B.C. can be found in the traditional lands of the Sami. These hunters and gatherers of the late Paleolithic and early Mesolithic were named Komsa by the researchers as what they identified themselves as is unknown.\n\nThe Sami have been recognized as an indigenous people in Norway since 1990 according to ILO convention 169, and hence, according to international law, the Sami people in Norway are entitled special protection and rights.\n\nDuring the Viking Age, the Vikings (Scandinavian warriors and traders) raided, colonized and explored large parts of Europe, the Middle East, northern Africa, as far west as Newfoundland.\n\nThe beginning of the Viking Age is commonly given as 793, when Vikings pillaged the important British island monastery of Lindisfarne, and its end is marked by the unsuccessful invasion of England attempted by Harald Hårdråde in 1066 and the Norman conquest.\n\nThe age of settlement began around 800 AD . The Vikings invaded and eventually settled in Scotland , England, Greenland , the Faroe Islands , Iceland , Ireland , Livonia , Normandy , the Shetland Islands, Sicily, Rus' and Vinland, on what is now known as the Island of Newfoundland . Swedish settlers were mostly present in Rus, Livonia, and other eastern regions while the Norwegians and the Danish were primarily concentrated in western and northern Europe . These eastern-traveling Scandinavian migrants were eventually known as Varangians (\"væringjar\", meaning \"sworn men\"),and according to the oldest Slavic sources , these varangians founded Kievan Rus, the major East European state prior to the Mongol invasions. The western-led warriors, eventually known as Vikings, left great cultural marks on regions such as French Normandy, England, and Ireland, where the city of Dublin was founded by Viking invaders. Iceland first became colonized in the late 9th century .\n\nViking religious beliefs were heavily connected to Norse mythology. Vikings placed heavy emphasis on battle, honor and focused on the idea of Valhalla, a mythical home with the gods for fallen warriors.\n\nChristianity in Scandinavia came later than most parts of Europe. In Denmark Harald Bluetooth Christianized the country around 980. The process of Christianization began in Norway during the reigns of Olaf Tryggvason (reigned 995 AD–c.1000 AD) and Olaf II Haraldsson (reigned 1015 AD–1030 AD). Olaf and Olaf II had been baptized voluntarily outside of Norway. Olaf II managed to bring English clergy to his country. Norway's conversion from the Norse religion to Christianity was mostly the result of English missionaries. As a result of the adoption of Christianity by the monarchy and eventually the entirety of the country, traditional shamanistic practices were marginalized and eventually persecuted. Völvas, practitioners of seid, a Scandinavian pre-Christian tradition, were executed or exiled under newly Christianized governments in the eleventh and twelfth centuries.\n\nThe Icelandic Commonwealth adopted Christianity in 1000 AD, after pressure from Norway. The \"Goði\"-chieftain Þorgeirr Ljósvetningagoði was instrumental in bringing this about.\n\nSweden required a little more time to transition to Christianity, with indigenous religious practices commonly held in localized communities well until the end of the eleventh century. A brief Swedish civil war ensued in 1066 primarily reflecting the divisions between practitioners of indigenous religions and advocates of Christianity; by the mid-twelfth century, the Christian faction appeared to have triumphed; the once resistant center of Uppsala became the seat of the Swedish Archbishop in 1164. The Christianization of Scandinavia occurred nearly simultaneously with the end of the Viking era. The adoption of Christianity is believed to have aided in the absorption of Viking communities into the greater religious and cultural framework of the European continent.\n\nThe Kalmar Union (Danish/Norwegian/Swedish: \"Kalmarunionen\") was a series of personal unions (1397–1520) that united the three kingdoms of Denmark, Norway and Sweden under a single monarch. The countries had given up their sovereignty but not their independence, and diverging interests (especially Swedish dissatisfaction over the Danish and Holsteinish dominance) gave rise to a conflict that would hamper it from the 1430s until its final dissolution in 1523.\n\nThe Kalmar War in 1611–1613 was the last serious (although possibly unrealistic) attempt by a Danish King (Christian IV) to re-create the Kalmar Union by force. However, The Kalmar War ended with a minor Danish victory and not the total defeat of the Swedes. No more Danish attempts would be made to re-create the Kalmar Union following this war.\n\nThe Protestant Reformation came to Scandinavia in the 1530s, and Scandinavia soon became one of the heartlands of Lutheranism. Catholicism almost completely vanished in Scandinavia, except for a small population in Denmark.\n\nThe Thirty Years' War was a conflict fought between the years 1618 and 1648, principally in the Central European territory of the Holy Roman Empire but also involving most of the major continental powers. Although it was from its outset a religious conflict between Protestants and Catholics, the self-preservation of the Habsburg dynasty was also a central motive. The Danes and then Swedes intervened at various points to protect their interests.\n\nThe Danish intervention began when Christian IV (1577–1648) the King of Denmark-Norway, himself a Lutheran, helped the German Protestants by leading an army against the Holy Roman Empire, fearing that Denmark's sovereignty as a Protestant nation was being threatened. The period began in 1625 and lasted till 1629. Christian IV had profited greatly from his policies in northern Germany (Hamburg had been forced to accept Danish sovereignty in 1621, and in 1623 the Danish heir apparent was made Administrator of the Prince-Bishopric of Verden. In 1635 he became Administrator of the Prince-Archbishopric of Bremen too.) As an administrator, Christian IV had done remarkably well, obtaining for his kingdom a level of stability and wealth that was virtually unmatched elsewhere in Europe, paid for by the Øresund toll and extensive war reparations from Sweden. It also helped that the French regent Cardinal Richelieu was willing to pay for a Danish incursion into Germany. Christian IV invaded at the head of a mercenary army of 20,000 men, but the Danish forces were severely beaten, and Christian IV had to sign an ignominious defeat, the first in a series of military setbacks to weaken his kingdom.\n\nThe Swedish intervention began in 1630 and lasted until 1635. Some within Ferdinand II's court believed that Wallenstein wanted to take control of the German princes and thus gain influence over the emperor. Ferdinand II dismissed Wallenstein in 1630. He later recalled him after Gustavus Adolphus attacked the empire and prevailed in a number of significant battles.\n\nGustavus Adolphus, like Christian IV before him, came to aid the German Lutherans to forestall Catholic aggression against their homeland and to obtain economic influence in the German states around the Baltic Sea. Also like Christian IV, Gustavus Adolphus was subsidized by Richelieu, the Chief Minister of King Louis XIII of France, and by the Dutch. From 1630–1634, they drove the Catholic forces back and regained much of the occupied Protestant lands.\n\nThe Swedish rise to power began under the rule of Charles IX. During the Ingrian War Sweden expanded its territories eastward. Several other wars with Poland, Denmark-Norway, and German countries enabled further Swedish expansion, although there were some setbacks such as the Kalmar War. Sweden began consolidating its empire. Several other wars followed soon after including the Northern Wars and the Scanian War. Denmark suffered many defeats during this period. Finally under the rule of Charles XI the empire was consolidated under a semi-absolute monarchy.\n\nThe Great Northern War was fought between a coalition of Russia, Denmark-Norway and Saxony-Poland (from 1715 also Prussia and Hanover) on one side and Sweden on the other side from 1700 to 1721. It started by a coordinated attack on Sweden by the coalition in 1700 and ended 1721 with the conclusion of the Treaty of Nystad and the Stockholm treaties. As a result of the war, Russia supplanted Sweden as the dominant power on the Baltic Sea and became a major player in European politics.\n\nBoth Sweden and Denmark-Norway maintained a number of colonies outside Scandinavia starting in the 17th century lasting until the 20th century. Greenland, Iceland and The Faroe Islands in the North Atlantic were Norwegian dependencies that were incorporated into the united kingdom of Denmark-Norway. In the Caribbean, Denmark started a colony on St Thomas in 1671, St John in 1718, and purchased Saint Croix from France in 1733. Denmark also maintained colonies in India, Tranquebar and Frederiksnagore. The Danish East India Company operated out of Tranquebar. Sweden also chartered a Swedish East India Company. During its heyday, the Danish and Swedish East India Companies imported more tea than the British East India Company – and smuggled 90% of it into Britain where it could be sold at a huge profit. Both East India Companies folded over the course of the Napoleonic Wars. Sweden had the short lived colony New Sweden in Delaware in North America during the 1630s and later acquired the islands of Saint-Barthélemy (1785–1878) and Guadeloupe in the Caribbean.\n\nScandinavia was divided during the Napoleonic Wars. Denmark-Norway tried to remain neutral but became involved in the conflict after British demands to turn over the navy. Britain thereafter attacked the Danish fleet at the battle of Copenhagen (1801) and bombarded the city during the second battle of Copenhagen (1807). Most of the Danish fleet was captured following the Second Battle of Copenhagen in 1807. The bombardment of Copenhagen led to an alliance with France and outright war with Britain, whose navy blockaded Denmark-Norway and severely impeded communication between the two kingdoms and caused a famine in Norway. Sweden, allied with Britain at the time, seized the opportunity to invade Norway in 1807 but was beaten back. The war with Britain was fought at sea in a series of battles, Battle of Zealand Point, Battle of Lyngør, and Battle of Anholt, by the remnants of the Danish fleet in the ensuing years, as the Danes tried to break the British blockade, in what became known as the Gunboat War. After the war, Denmark was forced to cede Heligoland to Britain.\n\nSweden joined the Third Coalition against Napoleon in 1805, but the coalition fell apart after the peace at Tilsit in 1807, forcing Russia to become the ally of France. Russia invaded Finland in 1808 and forced Sweden to cede that province at the peace of Fredrikshamn in 1809. The inept government of King Gustav IV Adolf led to his deposition and banishment. A new constitution was introduced, and his uncle Charles XIII was enthroned. Since he was childless, Sweden chose as his successor the commander in chief of the Norwegian army, Prince Christian August of Augustenborg. However, his sudden death in 1810 forced the Swedes to look for another candidate, and once more they chose an enemy officer. Jean-Baptiste Bernadotte, Marshal of France, would be named the next king. Baron Karl Otto Mörner, an obscure member of the Diet, was the one who initially extended the offer of the Swedish crown to the young soldier. Bernadotte was originally one of Napoleon's eighteen Marshals.\n\nSweden decided to join the alliance against France in 1813 and was promised Norway as a reward. After the battle of Leipzig in October 1813, Bernadotte abandoned the pursuit of Napoleon and marched against Denmark, where he forced the king of Denmark-Norway to conclude the Treaty of Kiel on 14 January 1814. Norway was ceded to the king of Sweden, but Denmark retained the Norwegian Atlantic possessions of the Faroe Islands, Iceland, and Greenland. However, the treaty of Kiel never came into force. Norway declared its independence, adopted a liberal constitution, and elected Prince Christian Frederik as king. After a short war with Sweden, Norway had to concede to a personal union with Sweden at the Convention of Moss. King Christian Frederik abdicated and left for Denmark in October, and the Norwegian Storting (parliament) elected the Swedish king as King of Norway, after having enacted such amendments to the constitution as were necessary to allow for the union with Sweden.\n\nOn 14 January 1814, at the Treaty of Kiel, the king of Denmark-Norway ceded Norway to the king of Sweden. The terms of the treaty provoked widespread opposition in Norway. The Norwegian vice-roy and heir to the throne of Denmark-Norway, Christian Frederik took the lead in a national uprising, assumed the title of regent, and convened a constitutional assembly at Eidsvoll. On 17 May 1814 the Constitution of Norway was signed by the assembly, and Christian Frederik was elected as king of independent Norway.\n\nThe Swedish king rejected the premise of an independent Norway and launched a military campaign on 27 July 1814, with an attack on the Hvaler islands and the city of Fredrikstad. The Swedish army was superior in numbers, was better equipped and trained, and was led by one of Napoleon's foremost generals, the newly elected Swedish crown prince, Jean Baptiste Bernadotte. Battles were short and decisively won by the Swedes. Armistice negotiations concluded on 14 August 1814.\n\nIn the peace negotiations, Christian Frederik agreed to relinquish claims to the Norwegian crown and return to Denmark if Sweden would accept the democratic Norwegian constitution and a loose personal union. On 4 November 1814, the Norwegian Parliament adopted the constitutional amendments required to enter a union with Sweden, and elected king Charles XIII as king of Norway.\n\nFollowing growing dissatisfaction with the union in Norway, the parliament unanimously declared its dissolution on 7 June 1905. This unilateral action met with Swedish threats of war. A plebiscite on 13 August confirmed the parliamentary decision. Negotiations in Karlstad led to agreement with Sweden on 23 September and mutual demobilization. Both parliaments revoked the Act of Union 16 October, and the deposed king Oscar II of Sweden renounced his claim to the Norwegian throne and recognized Norway as an independent kingdom on 26 October. The Norwegian parliament offered the vacant throne to Prince Carl of Denmark, who accepted after another plebiscite had confirmed the monarchy. He arrived in Norway on 25 November 1905, taking the name Haakon VII.\n\nThe Finnish War was fought between Sweden and Russia from February 1808 to September 1809. As a result of the war, Finland which formed the eastern third of Sweden proper became the autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland within Imperial Russia. Finland remained as a part of Russian Empire until 1917 at which point it became independent. Another notable effect was the Swedish parliament's adoption of a new constitution and a new royal house, that of Bernadotte.\n\nIndustrialization began in the mid 19th century in Scandinavia. In Denmark industrialization began in, and was confined to, Copenhagen until the 1890s, after which smaller towns began to grow rapidly. Denmark remained primarily agricultural until well into the 20th century, but agricultural processes were modernized and processing of dairy and meats became more important than the export of raw agricultural products.\n\nIndustrialization of Sweden experienced a boom during the First World War. The construction of a railway connecting southern Sweden and the northern mines was of primary importance.\n\nThe modern use of the term Scandinavia rises from the Scandinavist political movement, which was active in the middle of the 19th century, chiefly between the First war of Schleswig (1848–1850), in which Sweden and Norway contributed with considerable military force, and the Second war of Schleswig (1864) when the Riksdag of the Estates denounced the King's promises of military support for Denmark.\n\nMany Scandinavians emigrated to Canada, the United States, Australia, Africa, and New Zealand during the later nineteenth century. The main wave of Scandinavian emigration occurred in the 1860s lasting until the 1880s, although substantial emigration continued until the 1930s. The vast majority of emigrants left from the countryside in search of better farming and economic opportunities. Together with Finland and Iceland, almost a third of the population left in the eighty years after 1850. Part of the reason for the large exodus was the increasing population caused by falling death rates, which increased unemployment. Norway had the largest percentage of emigrants and Denmark the least.\n\nBetween 1820 and 1920 just over two million Scandinavians settled in the United States. One million came from Sweden, 300,000 from Denmark, and 730,000 from Norway. The figure for Norway represents almost 80% of the national population in 1800. The most popular destinations in North America were Minnesota, Iowa, the Dakotas, Wisconsin, Michigan, the Canadian prairies and Ontario.\n\nThe Scandinavian Monetary Union was a monetary union formed by Sweden and Denmark on 5 May 1873, by fixing their currencies against the gold standard at par to each other. Norway, which was in union with Sweden entered the union two years later, in 1875 by pegging its currency to gold at the same level as Denmark and Sweden (.403 grams ). The monetary union was one of the few tangible results of the Scandinavian political movement of the 19th century.\n\nThe union provided fixed exchange rates and stability in monetary terms, but the member countries continued to issue their own separate currencies. Even if it was not initially foreseen, the perceived security led to a situation where the formally separate currencies were accepted on a basis of \"as good as\" the legal tender virtually throughout the entire area.\n\nThe outbreak of World War I in 1914 brought an end to the monetary union. Sweden abandoned the tie to gold on 2 August 1914, and without a fixed exchange rate the free circulation came to an end.\n\nAll three Scandinavian countries remained neutral throughout the First World War. The war did have a significant impact on the economy of the area, primarily as a result of the British blockade of Germany. However, they were able to work around that with trade agreement with Britain. Norway's large merchant marine delivered vital supplies to Britain but suffered huge losses in ships and sailors because of indiscriminate attack by the German navy. Denmark called up much of its military, but Germany still violated Danish sovereignty to some extent, for example by mining the Øresund. A relatively large number of ethnic Danes from southern Jutland fought in the German army.\n\nAll three countries developed social welfare states in the early to mid-20th century. This came about partially because of the domination of the social-democrats in Sweden and Denmark, and the Labour party in Norway.\n\nNear the beginning of World War II in late 1939, both the Allies and the Axis Powers feared their enemies gaining power in Scandinavia. Britain believed Germany was planning to invade and made counter plans for its own invasion. At the same time, Germany feared that Britain could gain bases in the area and claimed they suspected an outright invasion. In addition, Germany highly valued the Swedish iron ore they received through Norway and could not afford to lose it. They also desired Norway for its ice-free ports. This made it a primary target, with Denmark a secondary goal mainly needed for facilitating the Norwegian invasion. After planning for months, Germany invaded both Denmark and Norway the same day, 9 April 1940, days before Britain planned to invade.\n\nThe nations reacted quite differently. Denmark surrendered two hours after invasion, having lost just sixteen men. They sought to avoid civilian casualties and receive favourable treatment from Germany. Norway however, refused to give in and fought valiantly and with the full strength of her limited and badly prepared forces. The Western allies sent military assistance, but the campaign was not effectively run. By 10 June 1940, Norway's official military had surrendered to the attackers, while King Haakon VII and his legal government fled to exile in Britain.\n\nDenmark's strategy proved the more beneficial in the short run. It was one of the factors that led Germany to grant the Danes a high degree of autonomy. Another reason was that they had no real agenda in Denmark. After invading, they simply did not want to relinquish it, seeing it as a permanent part of their empire. Also, Danes were considered fellow Nordics and Aryans by Nazi ideologues, which further helped the country. For all these reasons, Denmark was able to retain their parliament, king, and much of their normal domestic function. However, bitterness towards Germany grew, and small sabotages directed against Germany became commonplace. Germany eventually reacted by eliminating Denmark's representative government and imposing martial law.\n\nNorway was treated much more harshly throughout their occupation. Opposition parties were eliminated and \"Nasjonal Samling\" (\"National Unity\"), the Norwegian fascist political party, appointed all government officials. Vidkun Quisling was installed as Minister-President, a puppet to Berlin's High Command. Labor unions could only exist if they accepted Nazi control. These repressive measures ensured that the cooperation was small. About ten percent supported the Nazi party. Nevertheless, there was a hostile relationship, with an occupation force of almost one German for every ten Norwegians.\n\nDenmark and Norway were also unlike in their cooperation with Germany's genocidal policy. Norwegian police, controlled by the Quisling government, aided in the capture of Norwegian Jews in 1942. However, brave Norwegians managed to save over half of the Jewish population from Nazi death camps and help them to escape to safety in Sweden, even though they ran the risk of being severely punished for aiding Jews. The Danish Jews avoided German persecution until 1943, and Denmark was thus better prepared when the Germans struck. Danes were notable for their devoted efforts to protect Danish Jews. More than 96% of the Jewish population was boated to safety in Sweden, while others found refuge with Christian Danish families and organizations.\n\nAlone out of the three Scandinavian countries, Sweden was not invaded and remained nominally neutral during the war. They successfully cultivated peace with the Germans, supplying them with needed raw materials. The Swedish government was very careful to avoid inflaming the Nazis, going so far as to persuade newspaper editors to censor articles, and letting the Nazis move supplies through Sweden and into Norway all the way up to 1943. However, they would occasionally aid the Allies. They granted the Jews that escaped from Denmark asylum and gave notable aid to Finland during the Winter War.\n\nAfter the war, all of the Scandinavian countries agreed that some form of mutual defense policy was necessary. They began to discuss a Scandinavian defence union. The three Scandinavian countries would, if they had entered into an alliance, have remained separate sovereign countries but acted as a single bloc in foreign policy and security issues. The proposed union was being discussed by a joint Scandinavian committee during the winter of 1948–1949, but the Cold War tension between the United States and the Soviet Union, and preparations for a western alliance that would result in the North Atlantic Treaty overshadowed the effort. When it became known that the western alliance would not be able to supply the Scandinavian countries with armaments before meeting their own pressing needs, this issue ultimately proved to be the turning point for Norway, which resigned from the talks. Denmark was still willing to enter into an alliance with Sweden, but the Swedes saw few advantages in this and the proposal fell. Norway and Denmark subsequently became signatory parties of the North Atlantic Treaty and members of NATO. Sweden remained neutral after a heated debate.\n\nThe Nordic countries established the Nordic Council in 1952 and the Nordic passport union two years later.\nAfter a 1972 referendum, Denmark became the first Scandinavian member of the European Economic Community, which later paved the way for the EU, in 1973. Sweden joined the EU in 1995; after the fall of the Soviet Union, Sweden felt it could do so without being provocative. Norway remains outside the European Union to this day after referendums on membership in 1972 and 1994, although it is a signatory of the Schengen treaty and a member of the European Economic Area. None of the Scandinavian countries (except Finland) have joined the Euro, membership being rejected by referendum in both Denmark and Sweden. Denmark voted no to the Maastricht Treaty in 1992, but reversed the decision after negotiating opt-outs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119965", "title": "Jason Clermont", "text": "Jason Clermont\n\nJason Clermont (born May 24, 1978) is a former professional Canadian football slotback who retired after ten seasons in the Canadian Football League (CFL) with the BC Lions and Saskatchewan Roughriders. Clermont started his professional career with the BC Lions after being selected in the 2002 CFL Draft. He played amateur football in his hometown of Regina, starting with the Regina Rams junior football club, and continuing with the team after they became affiliated with the University of Regina. While playing university football, Clermont was named an All-Star and All-Canadian, as well as the Most Valuable Player in the Canada West Conference and represented Western Canada as one of only 2 Canadian players in the East West Shrine Bowl in San Francisco. As a professional, Clermont's honours have included being named the CFL's Most Outstanding Rookie in 2002, Most Outstanding Canadian in 2004 and 2007, as well as the Most Valuable Canadian at the 2004 Grey Cup. Clermont captured a Grey Cup championship with the Lions in 2006. He joined his hometown Roughriders at the start of the 2009 season after being released by the Lions and is now a member of the Regina Sports Hall of Fame as well as the University of Regina Hall of Fame and BC Lions Wall of Fame.\n\nClermont started playing football when he was eight years old, after seeing a minor football team practicing behind his home. He played high school football at Robert Usher Collegiate in his hometown of Regina, Saskatchewan. In 1995, Clermont quarterbacked Usher to a city championship.\n\nAfter finishing his high school career, Clermont played for the Regina Rams of the Canadian Junior Football League (CJFL). Clermont was named the Prairie Football Conference's Outstanding Rookie Receiver in 1996 and was named to the conference's All-Star team in 1997 and 1998. He was named a CJFL All-Canadian in 1998. The Rams won the Canadian Bowl as the nation's junior football champions in 1997 and 1998. In 1997, Clermont scored the winning touchdown in double overtime. As of 2010, Clermont still holds the CJFL record for most points scored in a game with 18 on October 25, 1997. In that game, he also set the record for most touchdowns in a game, with three, and most receiving touchdowns in a game with two.\n\nAfter the 1998 season, the Rams left the CJFL in favour of affiliation with the University of Regina to play Canadian Interuniversity Sport (CIS) football in the Canada West conference. In 2000, Clermont and the Rams were the runners up in the Vanier Cup championship. During his senior year with the Rams, Clermont was named a Canada West All-Star, and a CIS All-Canadian in addition to being named the Most Outstanding Player in the Canada West conference and the nominee for Hec Creighton Award. He was also selected to participate in the annual East-West Shrine Game at the end of the season. In 2007, Clermont was inducted in the Regina Rams Hall of Fame.\n\nAfter his university career, Clermont was drafted in the first round (fourth overall) of the 2002 CFL Draft by the BC Lions. During the Lions' 2002 season Clermont played slotback and played a key role in the team's offense with 46 receptions for 735 yards and six touchdowns. These numbers were good enough for Clermont to capture the CFL's Most Outstanding Rookie Award. Clermont had similar production in 2003, finishing the season with 615 yards and seven touchdowns.\n\nClermont had his breakthrough season in 2004, catching 83 passes for 1220 yards and seven touchdowns. He was named the CFL's Top Canadian in addition to securing a spot on the Western Division All-Star Team. Clermont and the Lions made it to the 2004 Grey Cup, but were defeated by the Toronto Argonauts. Despite the loss, Clermont captured the Dick Suderman Trophy as the Outstanding Canadian in the championship game.\n\nWith the Lions in 2005, Clermont recorded his second 1000-yard season, and caught four touchdown passes. The 2006 season was a disappointing one for Clermont, as he missed significant time after suffering torn knee ligaments in the first game of the season. He finished the season with 44 receptions and three touchdowns, while starting 11 games. Clermont was back in the lineup in time for the playoffs, and saw limited action as the Lions captured the 2006 Grey Cup with a 25–14 victory over the Montreal Alouettes.\n\nIn 2007, Clermont caught 86 passes for 1158 yards and 7 touchdowns. He won his second CFL Most Outstanding Canadian award and he was named a CFL All-Star.\n\nClermont had an injury plagued season in 2008, leading head coach Wally Buono to deem him expendable. As such, on December 3, 2008, the Lions released Clermont and he became a free agent.\nIn August 2016 the BC Lions inducted Clermont into their Wall of Fame.\n\nClermont signed a contract with the Saskatchewan Roughriders on December 12, 2008, finally being afforded the opportunity to join his hometown team. Although fans expected much from Clermont for the 2009 season, his role on offence was limited as he only caught 23 passes for 317 yards and was a healthy scratch for two games. His first touchdown for the Roughriders was scored on November 14, 2010, at the end of the first semifinal game of the season, taking Saskatchewan to a 41-38 victory against the BC Lions in double overtime. Clermont was named the CFL's Outstanding Canadian for the first week of the playoffs after his performance in the Western semi-final.\n\nOn April 24, 2012, Clermont retired from the Canadian Football League after a ten-year career that included four Grey Cup appearances and one Grey Cup championship.\n"}
{"id": "2119967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119967", "title": "Royal Naval College", "text": "Royal Naval College\n\nRoyal Naval College may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119977", "title": "Hévíz–Balaton Airport", "text": "Hévíz–Balaton Airport\n\nHévíz–Balaton Airport , previously also known as \"Sármellék International Airport\" (), is an international airport in Hungary located west of Lake Balaton, south-southwest of the village of Sármellék, Zala County and Keszthely. It gains importance due to the proximity of Lake Balaton, Hungary's most important holiday resort and the thermal spas of Hévíz and Zalakaros.\n\nA military airport was located here in the 1940s. It was paved in the 1950s and functioned as a Hungarian military airport until 1960, and as a Soviet military airport between 1960 and the autumn of 1990. The current runways were constructed in 1982.\n\nSármellék International Airport had operated as a public airport since 1991 and became the second international airport of the country on 15 May 2002 after Budapest Ferenc Liszt International Airport. The airport is owned by the local governments of Sármellék and Zalavár since August 2002, operated by an Irish-Hungarian investment group, Cape Clear Aviation Ltd., since 2004.\n\nIn December 2005, Ryanair announced three weekly scheduled flights from London–Stansted, but the route was cut in October 2006, along with flights from Hahn.\n\nDue to financial problems, the airport closed over the winter period 2008–09, then closed indefinitely on 10 October 2009. A new buyer was then sought for the facility. It reopened, however, in April 2010. In the next two winters it closed, but it reopened again for the spring and summer months of 2011 and 2012.\n\nSince April 2012, the airport has been known by its new name: \"Hévíz–Balaton Airport\".\n\nThe following airline operates seasonal services at the airport:\n\nIn addition to the shown scheduled services there are some more occasional charter services, especially during the German summer holiday season.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119978", "title": "Peter D. Kramer", "text": "Peter D. Kramer\n\nPeter D. Kramer (born October 22, 1948), is an American psychiatrist and faculty member of Brown Medical School specializing in the area of clinical depression. Kramer considers depression to be a serious disease with tangible physiological effects such as disorganizing the brain and disrupting the functioning of the cardiovascular system. In his work he has criticized society for romanticizing depression in the same way that tuberculosis was once romanticized; these romantic notions involve claims of artistic sensitivity or of genius arising from depression.\n\nPeter D. Kramer was born on October 22, 1948 in New York City to Jewish Holocaust survivors. He graduated from Harvard University with a bachelor of arts degree in 1970 and an MD in 1976. He was also a Marshall Scholar at University College, London (UCL) in 1970-1972.\n\nKramer is a faculty member of Brown Medical School, where he specializes in clinical depression. He is also the author of several books. In his 2005 book \"Against Depression\", he argues that the socio-economic costs of depression are so large and the effects so pervasive that modern societies should aim to eradicate the disease in the same fashion as it did with smallpox.\n\nKramer's most notable book is \"Listening to Prozac\" (1993). This work was grounded in the observation that, treated with antidepressants, some patients reported feeling \"better than well.\" This result led Kramer to consider the feasibility of \"cosmetic psychopharmacology,\" the use of medication in healthy people to induce personality traits that are desired or socially rewarded. In the book, Kramer considers the consequences for medical ethics and critiques the tendency of the culture to reward particular personality styles, namely those characterized by energy and assertiveness. \n\nFrom 2005 through 2006, Kramer served as principal host of the public radio program \"The Infinite Mind\". He has frequently reviewed books (in \"Slate\", \"Washington Post\", \"New York Times Book Review\") and is a member of the National Book Critics Circle. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119979", "title": "Loca (Arsenium and Natalia Gordienko song)", "text": "Loca (Arsenium and Natalia Gordienko song)\n\n\"Loca\" by Arsenium and Natalia Gordienko was the official entry for Moldova at the Eurovision Song Contest 2006. The song was performed in English and contained parts in Spanish (basically the title, the rhyming words and several full verses). Due to Moldova's good placing in the 2005 contest with \"Zdob Si Zdub\", the song was pre-qualified for the final, where it was performed second (following Switzerland's Six4one with \"If We All Give A Little\" and preceding Israel's Eddie Butler singing \"Together We Are One\").\n\nThe song is a hip-hop inspired number, with both singers declaring their love for each other and their request that they \"give me, give me your boca [mouth]\".\n\nThe performance on the night featured Natalia initially wearing a tight top and a short skirt. Mid-way through the song, she went behind a screen and removed the skirt to reveal hotpants. Later, the top was also removed to reveal a bikini top. A final costume change saw her emerge at the end of the song wearing a dress.\n\n\"Loca\" was successful in Romania after the contest, reaching number four on the Romanian Top 100 in August 2006. While on the chart, the song was credited to \"Arsenium and Connect-R featuring Natalia\"; however, the EBU lists \"Loca\" as credited to \"Arsenium and Natalia Gordienko\".\n\nIt was succeeded as Moldovan representative at the Eurovision Song Contest 2007 by Natalia Barbu with \"Fight\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2119992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119992", "title": "Guerrilla gardening", "text": "Guerrilla gardening\n\nGuerrilla gardening is the act of gardening on land that the gardeners do not have the legal rights to cultivate, such as abandoned sites, areas that are not being cared for, or private property. It encompasses a diverse range of people and motivations, ranging from gardeners who spill over their legal boundaries to gardeners with political influences who seek to provoke change by using guerrilla gardening as a form of protest or direct action. This practice has implications for land rights and land reform; aiming to promote re-consideration of land ownership in order to assign a new purpose or reclaim land that is perceived to be in neglect or misused.\nThe land that is guerrilla gardened is usually abandoned or perceived to be neglected by its legal owner. That land is used by guerrilla gardeners to raise plants, frequently focusing on food crops or plants intended for aesthetic purposes, like flowers.\n\nSome guerrilla gardeners carry out their actions at night, in relative secrecy, to sow and tend a new vegetable patch or flower garden in an effort to make the area of use and/or more attractive. Some garden at more visible hours for the purpose of publicity, which can be seen as a form of activism.\n\nThe earliest recorded use of the term \"guerrilla gardening\" was by Liz Christy and her Green Guerrilla group in 1973 in the Bowery Houston area of New York. They transformed a derelict private lot into a garden. The space is still cared for by volunteers but now enjoys the protection of the city's parks department. Two celebrated guerrilla gardeners, active prior to the coining of the term, were Gerrard Winstanley, of the Diggers in Surrey, England (1649), and John \"Appleseed\" Chapman in Ohio, USA (1801).\n\nGuerrilla gardening takes place in many parts of the world - more than thirty countries are documented and evidence can be found online in numerous guerrilla gardening social networking groups and in the Community pages of GuerrillaGardening.org. The term \"bewildering\" has been used as a synonym for guerrilla gardening by Australian gardener Bob Crombie.\n\nThe International Sunflower Guerrilla Gardening Day, scheduled on the 1st of May of every year, is an annual international event when guerrilla gardeners plant sunflowers in their neighborhoods, typically in public places perceived to be neglected, such as tree pits, flower beds and roadside verges. It has taken place since 2007, and was conceived by guerrilla gardeners in Brussels, (who go by the name of The Brussels Farmers). They declared it \"Journée Internationale de la Guérilla Tournesol\". It has been championed by guerrilla gardeners around the world, notably by GuerrillaGardening.org and participation has grown each year since then. Although sunflower sowing at this time of the year is limited to relatively temperate parts of the Northern Hemisphere, this day is also marked in other parts of the world by planting plants appropriate to the season.\n\nGuerrilla gardening continues today, as individuals secretly plant fruit trees, edible perennials, and flowers in parks, along bike trails, etc. Some guerrilla gardeners do so for the purpose of providing food. For example, the Tacamiche banana plantation workers in Honduras illegally grew vegetables on the abandoned plantation land, rather than leave with the plantation's closure in 1995.\n\nFrom the mid-1970s, Adam Purple created and tended a circular garden (shaped like a yin-yang) in the Lower East Side of Manhattan, in an abandoned lot. In 1986, when it was bulldozed by the City of New York, the garden had overtaken many lots and reached a size of 15,000 square feet. The short film \"Adam Purple and the Garden of Eden\" tells its history.\n\nPeople's Park in Berkeley, California is now a de facto public park which was formed directly out of a community guerrilla gardening movement during the late 1960s which took place on land owned by the University of California. The university acquired the land through eminent domain, and the houses on the land were demolished, but the university did not allocate funds to develop the land, and the land was left in a decrepit state.\n\nEventually, people began to convert the unused land into a park. This led to an embattled history involving community members, the university, university police, Governor Reagan, and the national guard, where protest and bloody reprisal left one person dead, and hundreds seriously wounded. Parts of the park were destroyed and rebuilt over time, and it has established itself into a permanent part of the city.\n\nGreenaid is a Los Angeles based organization founded in 2010 by Daniel Phillips and Kim Karlsrud of Common Studio. The organization converts vintage gumball machines to dispense seed balls, a combination of clay, compost and region-specific seeds. Once dispensed, seed balls are tossed or planted in any area that may benefit from wildflowers (Seed bombing). Greenaid partners with business owners, educators and citizens to distribute seedbomb vending machines in various communities worldwide. With region-specific seedbomb mixes, Greenaid aims to integrate and beautify rather than disrupt traditionally bland urban areas such as sidewalks and highway medians. In July 2010, Greenaid received $10,398 in funding from the Kickstarter community. This funding will be used to spread the initiative to new locations and support current operations.\n\nDesigner Ron Finley pioneered the growing produce on a strip of parkway lawn but came into conflict with the city council. He was successful in maintaining this urban market garden and has promoted the idea with a TED talk and appearances at international conferences such as the Stockholm Food Forum and MAD in Copenhagen.\n\nDeveloping the Clean, Green, and Glean method of Guerrilla Gardening, Scott Bunnell has been refining guerrilla gardening methods for over 30 years. In 2008 he started the SoCal Guerrilla Gardening Club, adding more drought tolerant gardens. Having dozens of guerrilla gardens in Los Angeles County. Several gardens in each of the cities of Eagle Rock, Pico Rivera, Whittier, Long Beach, Norwalk, Artesia, Venice, and the Hollywood and Skid Row area of Los Angeles. In 2015 SoCal also planted a guerrilla \"satellite\" garden in Morro Bay, Ca. with our sister club the Morro Bay Guerrilla Gardening Club.\n\nIn Northern Utah, apple trees commonly grow along the banks of canals. Asparagus grows along the smaller ditch banks. Many of these plants were seeded 150 years ago by the workers who dug the canals, by burying their lunch apple core in the freshly dug soil or by surreptitiously spreading seeds along a new ditchbank.\n\nIn 2009, as a collaboration between World Naked Bike Ride Seattle, Body Freedom Collaborative, and World Naked Gardening Day, permaculturists Kelda Lorax and Jacob Gabriel launched Gardens Everywhere Bike Parade, a permaculture-themed clothing-optional bike ride that spontaneously showed up at neighborhood gardening locations.\n\nWhereas most areas that are subjected to guerrilla gardening are unused or abandoned areas not designated for parkland or green space, this is an exception in that it was initially designed for such a purpose. Originally a maintained parkette in Welland, this small area along the Welland Recreational Waterway fell into disuse and neglect for a number of years. In 2013, a handful of local residents, including visual artists and guerrilla gardeners, reclaimed the space by fully restoring overgrown flower beds, adding outdoor paintings, and overseeing general landscape maintenance. Although this area is officially municipal property, there was initially a question by volunteers as to which local organization was responsible for this parkette's maintenance (whether responsibility fell into hands of Welland Recreational Canal Corporation or City of Welland Parks Department). Volunteers met with representatives of City of Welland, and an unofficial verbal agreement was made, ensuring that although the City of Welland does own the parkette land, volunteers may continue maintenance and gardening in the area. Currently, the area does attract some local artistic, musical, and creative youth. It has also been the setting for a number of small unorganized or impromptu events, such as art shows.\n\nArbutus Greenway - Vancouver (BC Canada)\n\nThe Arbutus corridor, located on the un-ceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil Waututh Nations was originally a rail line developed in 1902 by the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR), connecting Vancouver harbour to the fishing village of Steveston on the South Arm of the Fraser River.  In 1905 the BC Electric Company (BCEC) leased and electrified the line to operate interurban passenger rail service between Vancouver and Richmond.  The BCEC passenger service was discontinued in 1952 but CPR freight operations continued infrequently until 2001.  \n\nWith the end of rail operations, CPR wanted to redevelop the 17 hectare corridor for residential and commercial purposes but was prevented by the City of Vancouver which wanted to acquire the lands for green space and potentially, a future light rail transportation line.  In 2006 the Supreme Court of Canada affirmed the City's zoning authority to prohibit CPR development, but the final disposition of the lands was not resolved until 2016 when the City of Vancouver purchased the lands from CPR for $55M.  \n\nIn the interim, home owners adjacent to the unused rail line and community groups had built and maintained numerous gardens and plots on the 9 km route.  The homes adjacent to the corridor are large and some of the most expensive in the city with the green space adding to the exclusivity of the properties.  In 2014 as negotiations with the city dragged on, CPR began repairing the rail line, clearing the gardens and preparing to run trains on the line. The city filed an injunction to block the railway from reactivating the line, but that bid was dismissed in B.C. Supreme Court.  Finally in 2016 the City finalized acquisition of the lands.  Terms of the complex purchase agreement included a stipulation that a portion of the corridor must be dedicated for light rail transit use.\n\nThis has not entirely ended the conflict over the lands.  Since acquiring the Arbutus corridor, the City has built a bike and pedestrian trail and developed an Arbutus Greenway plan but adjacent home owners have pushed for a return to the previous state. Many would like to leave the lands wild and inaccessible which would make the now public lands an exclusive green space for the wealthy adjacent home owners.  The official Arbutus Greenway plan has divided the 9 km route into 8 different character zones that will include bicycle and pedestrian paths, public spaces, community gardens, plazas and spaces for public art.\n\nYork, Pennsylvania - Downtown East\n\nThe Guerrilla Gardeners of Downtown East began in 2009 as a \"compact\" or agreement between urban flower pot gardeners and residents of the East Market/Broad Street neighborhood in York City, Pennsylvania. Simply put - if residents agreed to keep their sidewalks litter free, and only placed trash out for collection the night before scheduled pick-up, guerrilla gardeners would place a garden pot with flowering annuals in the spring and summer, mums in the fall and greenery over the winter months in place of the trash pile. What began with a few homes and apartments quickly spread and as of 2019 over 40 homes and apartments have agreed to the concept. York City's Guerrilla Gardeners routinely care for street trees, planters and front gardens that have been neglected or fallen into disrepair. Several gardeners focus on litter removal, one ensures street lamps are replaced when they burn out, two focus on seasonal leaf and snow removal. In 2013, Ralph Serpe received the Downtown, Inc. Beautification Award on behalf of the Downtown East Guerrilla Gardeners.\n\nIn 1996, Have på en nat (\"Garden in a night\") was made by the Danish Økologiske Igangsættere (\"Organic starters\"). An empty piece of land in the middle of the city at Guldbergsgade in Nørrebro, Copenhagen, Denmark, was transformed into a garden in a single night. About 1,000 people took part in the project.\n\nGuerrillaGardening.org was created in October 2004 by Richard Reynolds as a blog of his solo guerrilla gardening outside Perronet House, a council block in London's Elephant and Castle district. At the time, his motivations were simply those of a frustrated gardener looking to beautify the neighborhood, but his website attracted the interest of fellow guerrilla gardeners in London and beyond, as well as the world's media. Reynolds's guerrilla gardening has now reached many pockets of South London, and news of his activity has inspired people around the world to get involved. He also works alongside other troops, some local and some who travel to participate. He has also guerrilla-gardened in Libya, Berlin and Montreal.\n\nToday, GuerrillaGardening.org is still his blog but also includes tips, links and thriving community boards where guerrilla gardeners from around the world are finding supportive locals. His book, \"On Guerrilla Gardening\", which describes and discusses activity in 30 different countries, was published by Bloomsbury Publishing in the UK and USA in May 2008, in Germany in 2009, France in 2010 and South Korea in 2012. He regularly speaks on the subject to audiences and in 2010 launched a campaign focusing specifically on pavements as an opportunity, to 'plant life in your street'.\n\nLeaf Street is an acre of land in Hulme, Manchester, England, that was once an urban street until turfed over by Manchester City Council. Local people, facilitated by Manchester Permaculture Group, took direct action in turning the site into a thriving community garden.\n\nIn July 2009, land rights activists moved on to a derelict piece of land near Kew Gardens in West London. Kew Bridge Eco Village was a small community of squatters who grew vegetables and built basic wooden dwellings on the land.\n\nGuerrilla gardening is prominent in Melbourne where most of the inner northern suburbs have community vegetable gardens; land adjoining rail lines has undergone regeneration of the native vegetation, including nature strips. There are a few minor disputes between guerrilla gardeners in Melbourne, with most falling into one of two groups: those concerned most with native planting and those concerned most with communal food growing. However, people with differing opinions still work together without dispute.\n\nThere are small community groups around Australia called \"Permablitz\" who gather regularly to design and construct suburban vegetable gardens for free, in an effort to educate residents on how to grow their own food and better prepare them if/when food prices become too expensive.\n\nAustralian Network 10's show \"Guerrilla Gardeners\" featured a team of gardeners who make over areas of council owned property without them knowing.\n\nKevin Hoffman Walk\n\nKevin Hoffman Walk is a passive, scenic linear trail with significant indigenous vegetation, lush ground covers, flowering native shrubs and trees, that overlook part of the tranquil Hovells Creek in Lara Victoria. Originally inspired and maintained by Kevin Hoffman and his family in the early 1970s and with the support of the then Shire of Corio they commenced working together.\n\nIn 1978 in downtown Wellington New Zealand artist Barry Thomas, in collaboration with Chris Lipscombe, Hugh Walton and others, planted 180 cabbages \"on the demolished Duke of Edinburgh/Roxy Theatre site in the centre of Wellington. This cabbage patch, planted in such a way as to spell the word CABBAGE immediately captured the imagination of both the media and the public and engendered a flurry of other activities on the site, culminating in a week-long festival... when the cabbages were ceremonially harvested.\" While a work of conceptual sculpture, this intervention is also an early example of guerrilla gardening in New Zealand. Thomas' work remained for six months, \"astonishingly unvandalised, as a living, breathing sculpture in the heart of the city.\" Christina Barton writes that in the months that followed, \"it captured the hearts and minds of Wellingtonians, who followed the growth of the cabbages, adding their own embellishments to the site, and contributed to the week of festivities (with poetry readings, performances, and the distribution of free coleslaw) that celebrated their harvest\", describing the work as \"a provocation to the local council and the city's developers\". Thomas' documentation of the project was recently purchased by New Zealand's national gallery Te Papa, who described the work as an \"important moment in New Zealand's art and social history\" with links to the \"Occupy movement, urban farming and guerrilla gardening\".\n\nGuerrilla gardening in South Korea is organized and carried out by individuals, volunteer groups and Internet communities. Richard Reynolds visited South Korea in August 2012 and spoke to many Korean audiences about guerrilla gardening through TEDxItaewon.\n\nThe concept of guerilla gardening resonated with a young South African who came across it while living in London. On his return to South Africa, he began implementing the practice by attempting to eradicate invasive wattle trees from Klapperkop Nature Reserve in Pretoria, after local authorities failed to address the infestation. On 20 May 2018 he was however arrested by the South African Police Service for his contribution to society.\n\nDue to brownfield, there are some health risks to foraging or planting edible plants near toxic waste sites and roads with heavy traffic due to chemical runoff that gets absorbed by the roots. Scientists have learned that certain types of plants absorb toxins from the soil without dying and can thus be used as a mechanism to reduce chemical ground pollution. Guerrilla gardening could be used as a way to take independent action to clean up one's community, but eating a toxin-absorbent plant will deposit those toxins in the body.\n\nUrban foragers face similar health risks in this manner. Care should be taken to not eat plants that grow in areas where there is known chemical contamination or water pollution. Plants that grow on the side of high-traffic roads should also not be eaten because of automobile fluid runoff.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "2119996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119996", "title": "1993 in art", "text": "1993 in art\n\nThe year 1993 in art involved some significant events and new works.\n\n\n\n\n\n--The Venice Biennale--\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119997", "title": "Ryan Thelwell", "text": "Ryan Thelwell\n\nRyan Thelwell (born April 6, 1973) is a Jamaican-Canadian retired professional wide receiver of American football and Canadian football. Thelwell was originally drafted 9th overall by the Lions in the 1998 CFL Draft and by the San Francisco 49ers of the National Football League in the 1998 NFL Draft in the seventh round with the 215th overall pick. Thelwell played college football with the University of Minnesota.\n\nThelwell was born in Montego Bay, Jamaica and grew up in London, Ontario, Canada. He graduated from London Catholic Central High School in 1993 and played on the football, volleyball, basketball, and track teams. Thelwell attended the University of Minnesota. After redshirting a year, Thelwell played wide receiver on the Minnesota Golden Gophers football team from 1994 to 1997 seasons. In 7 games in his freshman season (1994), Thelwell caught 24 passes (including 3 touchdowns) for 406 yards and had a long reception of 80. In 1995, Thelwell caught 58 passes for 775 yards and 6 touchdowns. In 1996, Thelwell made 54 catches for 1,051 yards and 5 touchdowns. He was a second-team All-Big Ten Conference media selection and honorable mention all-Big Ten coaches' selection.\n\nThelwell was drafted 215th overall by the San Francisco 49ers in the 7th round of the 1998 NFL Draft, but failed to stick with the team following training camp. He then signed with the San Diego Chargers and played in six games, starting three. He caught his first pass of the season against the Baltimore Ravens on November 15, 1998 and scored his first and only touchdown of the season on December 27 in the season finale against the Arizona Cardinals. Thelwell caught a crucial, 30-yard touchdown pass on 4th-and-20 with 16 seconds left that would tie the game at 13 after the extra point. However, San Diego would lose 16-13. Only Thelwell caught more passes than Arizona linebacker Kwamie Lassiter intercepted passes from San Diego quarterback Craig Whelihan. One of Lassiter's interceptions bounced off Thelwell's hands. For the 1998 season with San Diego, Thelwell caught 16 passes for 268 yards. He signed with the Pittsburgh Steelers the following season.\n\nHaving been drafted 9th overall by the BC Lions, Thelwell signed with the defending Grey Cup champions on June 6, 2001. Thelwell would go on to play the next six seasons with the Lions, accumulating 335 receptions for 4981 yards and 30 touchdowns. He was named a West Division All-Star in 2004 and 2005, while recording his first 1000-yard season in 2005. He saw a drop-off in production in 2006 with 625 receiving yards, he was a key contributor in the playoffs, recording nine catches for 83 yards, leading to a Lions' win in the 94th Grey Cup.\n\nFollowing his Grey Cup win, Thelwell became a free agent and elected to sign with the Calgary Stampeders on February 16, 2007. Over four seasons in Calgary, he caught 106 passes for 1747 yards and nine touchdowns. He played in the Stampeders 96th Grey Cup victory over the Montreal Alouettes, the same team that lost to the Lions in 2006. On January 25, 2011, Thelwell announced his retirement from professional football.\n\nDue to an injury sustained by Akeem Foster, the Lions brought Thelwell out of retirement and signed him on October 25, 2011. Thelwell was on the 46-man roster when the team won the 99th Grey Cup, earning him his third Grey Cup championship in six seasons. Almost immediately after the win, Thelwell again announced his retirement on December 1, 2011.\n\nThelwell moved to London, Ontario when he was four years old.\n\nRyan Thelwell also made an appearance at the William Aberhart Trojans 2007 football banquet in Calgary on November 16, 2007.\n\nRyan is married with four kids.\n\nRyan Thelwell was inducted into the City of London Sports Hall of Fame in November 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119998", "title": "Oliver Dragojević", "text": "Oliver Dragojević\n\nOliver Dragojević (7 December 1947 – 29 July 2018) was a Croatian recording artist, who was considered one of the most enduring musical stars and cultural icons in Croatia with a discography that spanned nearly five decades. His style blended traditional klapa melodies of Dalmatia, a coastal region in his native Croatia, with jazz motifs wrapped up in a modern production. \n\nFor his influential musical career, he reached critical and commercial acclaim in Croatia and neighbouring countries, and numerous accolades, including numerous Porin and Indexi awards. He is one of the few Croatian musicians who performed at major international venues such as Carnegie Hall, Royal Albert Hall, L'Olympia and Sydney Opera House. In 1995, he was awarded the Order of Danica Hrvatska for his services to culture.\n\nDragojević's father Marko (1908–1991) and mother Kata (1907–1994) had three daughters, all of whom died young during World War II. His family escaped to a refugee camp in El Shatt, Egypt, together with many other women and children from Dalmatia. \n\nDragojević was born on 7 December 1947 in Split, not long after his family returned to their ancestral town of Vela Luka, on the Dalmatian island of Korčula. He had an older brother, Aljoša (1946–2011). When Oliver was five, his father, Marko, bought each of his sons a harmonica. Oliver mastered the instrument quickly, and entertained other kids on his street, as well as passengers on board of ships on the busy route of Vela Luka – Split. As Oliver showed a strong passion for music, his parents decided to enroll him in a music school in his hometown. There he learned to play the piano, clarinet and bass guitar. He was married his wife Vesna in 1974, with whom he had three sons; Dino (b. 1975), and twins Damir and Davor (b. 1978).\n\nDragojević participated five times in national selection for the Eurovision Song Contest. He made his debut in the Jugovizija 1988 with hopes to represent Yugoslavia performing \"Dženi\", which finished second. He returned to the contest again in 1990 with Zorica Kondža performing \"Sreća je tamo gdje si ti\" and finishing third. After the breakup of Yugoslavia, Dragojević participated in the Dora 1994 with hopes to represent Croatia, with \"Arja\". The song ended up in fourth place. He participated in the Dora 1995 again with \"Boginja\", finishing second, and in the Dora 1997 with \"Lucija\", finishing eight.\n\nIn August 2017, Dragojević was diagnosed with lung cancer. In June 2018, he was hospitalised in the due to breathing difficulties, where on 29 July 2018, at 2:00 am, Dragojević died after succumbing to a year long battle with the illness. He was 70. \n\nThe Croatian Government declared 31 July as the National Day of Condolences to honour him. Also, over 10,000 people on Split Riva, terraced the coffin with his body to the catamaran for Vela Luka on the same day. Dragojević was buried at the St. Roko Graveyard in Vela Luka, on 1 August 2018.\n\nDragojević's first performance was at the \"Split Children's Festival\" in 1961 with the song \"Baloni\". In a competition of amateur singers, his cult band from Split, \"Batali\" won first place for their rendition of \"Yesterday\", a Beatles classic. In 1972, Oliver went abroad to further develop his craft. He played in clubs across Germany, Sweden and Mexico. His solo singing career began in 1974 at the Split Festival, where he won with the song \"Ča će mi Copacabana\".\n\nA year later, composer Zdenko Runjić and Dragojević, released the song \"Galeb i ja\". It proved to be a big hit across the former SFR Yugoslavia and made Dragojević a household name. This was followed by hits \"Romanca\", \"Oprosti mi, pape\", \"Stari morski vuk\". Runjić would further collaborate with Dragojević on further 200 songs, until Runjić's death. Between 1975-1980, the Dragojević/Runjić duo dominated the music scene of the former SFR Yugoslavia. Part of the secret of their success was a third contributor, Jakša Fiamengo, who wrote the lyrics to some of Dragojević's most iconic songs, namely: \"Nadalina\", \"Piva klapa ispod volta\", \"Karoca\", \"Ništa nova\", \"Infiša san u te\", and \"Ostavljam te samu\". In 1990, Dragojević won the Split Festival with \"Ti is moj san\", and the Jugovizija Jamboree with the song \"Sreća je tamo gdje si ti\", both collaboration with Zorica Kondža.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119999", "title": "West Hawk Lake", "text": "West Hawk Lake\n\nWest Hawk Lake is located in the Whiteshell Provincial Park in southeastern Manitoba, Western Canada. The central portion of the lake is formed by the West Hawk crater, caused by a meteor impact into an ancient rock bed composed of mostly granite. Granite cliffs surround parts of the lake. This area is also known as part of the Canadian Shield that was formed billions of years ago. Parts of the Whiteshell park have elaborate petroforms that were made by First Nation peoples, possibly over a thousand years ago. There are petroform shapes of turtles, snakes, humans and geometrical patterns, often found upon pink granite ridges that were shaped during the last ice age.\n\nThe lake has private cottages, public beaches, campgrounds and other tourism amenities, and extensive undeveloped shoreline, and is popular for boating, sailing, Wakeboarding and scuba diving. It is just north of the Trans-Canada Highway, and on the Trans Canada Trail, on the border of Manitoba and Ontario.\n\nAt , it is the deepest lake in Manitoba.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120001", "title": "Retraction (topology)", "text": "Retraction (topology)\n\nIn topology, a branch of mathematics, a retraction is a continuous mapping from a topological space into a subspace that preserves the position of all points in that subspace. The subspace is then called a retract of the original space. A deformation retraction is a mapping that captures the idea of \"continuously shrinking\" a space into a subspace.\n\nAn absolute neighborhood retract (ANR) is a particularly well-behaved type of topological space. For example, every topological manifold is an ANR. Every ANR has the homotopy type of a very simple topological space, a CW complex.\n\nLet \"X\" be a topological space and \"A\" a subspace of \"X\". Then a continuous map\n\nis a retraction if the restriction of \"r\" to \"A\" is the identity map on \"A\"; that is, formula_2 for all \"a\" in \"A\". Equivalently, denoting by\n\nthe inclusion, a retraction is a continuous map \"r\" such that\nthat is, the composition of \"r\" with the inclusion is the identity of \"A\". Note that, by definition, a retraction maps \"X\" onto \"A\". A subspace \"A\" is called a retract of \"X\" if such a retraction exists. For instance, any non-empty space retracts to a point in the obvious way (the constant map yields a retraction). If \"X\" is Hausdorff, then \"A\" must be a closed subset of \"X\".\n\nIf formula_5 is a retraction, then the composition ι∘\"r\" is an idempotent continuous map from \"X\" to \"X\". Conversely, given any idempotent continuous map formula_6 we obtain a retraction onto the image of \"s\" by restricting the codomain.\n\nA continuous map\nis a \"deformation retraction\" of a space \"X\" onto a subspace \"A\" if, for every \"x\" in \"X\" and \"a\" in \"A\",\nIn other words, a deformation retraction is a homotopy between a retraction and the identity map on \"X\". The subspace \"A\" is called a deformation retract of \"X\". A deformation retraction is a special case of a homotopy equivalence.\n\nA retract need not be a deformation retract. For instance, having a single point as a deformation retract of a space \"X\" would imply that \"X\" is path connected (and in fact that \"X\" is contractible).\n\n\"Note:\" An equivalent definition of deformation retraction is the following. A continuous map formula_5 is a deformation retraction if it is a retraction and its composition with the inclusion is homotopic to the identity map on \"X\". In this formulation, a deformation retraction carries with it a homotopy between the identity map on \"X\" and itself.\n\nIf, in the definition of a deformation retraction, we add the requirement that\nfor all \"t\" in [0, 1] and \"a\" in \"A\", then \"F\" is called a strong deformation retraction. In other words, a strong deformation retraction leaves points in \"A\" fixed throughout the homotopy. (Some authors, such as Hatcher, take this as the definition of deformation retraction.)\n\nAs an example, the \"n\"-sphere \"formula_11\" is a strong deformation retract of formula_12 as strong deformation retraction one can choose the map \n\nA map \"f\": \"A\" → \"X\" of topological spaces is a (Hurewicz) cofibration if it has the homotopy extension property for maps to any space. This is one of the central concepts of homotopy theory. A cofibration \"f\" is always injective, in fact a homeomorphism to its image. If \"X\" is Hausdorff (or a compactly generated weak Hausdorff space), then the image of a cofibration \"f\" is closed in \"X\".\n\nAmong all closed inclusions, cofibrations can be characterized as follows. The inclusion of a closed subspace \"A\" in a space \"X\" is a cofibration if and only if \"A\" is a neighborhood deformation retract of \"X\", meaning that there is a continuous map formula_14 with formula_15 and a homotopy formula_16 such that formula_17 for all formula_18 formula_19 for all formula_20 and formula_21 and formula_22 if formula_23.\n\nFor example, the inclusion of a subcomplex in a CW complex is a cofibration.\n\n\nThe boundary of the \"n\"-dimensional ball, that is, the (\"n\"−1)-sphere, is not a retract of the ball. (See .)\n\nA closed subset formula_28 of a topological space formula_29 is called a neighborhood retract of formula_29 if formula_28 is a retract of some open subset of formula_29 that contains formula_28.\n\nLet formula_34 be a class of topological spaces, closed under homeomorphisms and passage to closed subsets. Following Borsuk (starting in 1931), a space \"formula_28\" is called an absolute retract for the class formula_34, written formula_37 if \"formula_28\" is in formula_34 and whenever \"formula_28\" is a closed subset of a space formula_29in formula_34, formula_28 is a retract of formula_29. A space formula_28 is an absolute neighborhood retract for the class formula_34, written formula_47 if formula_28 is in formula_34 and whenever formula_28 is a closed subset of a space formula_29 in formula_34, formula_28 is a neighborhood retract of formula_29.\n\nVarious classes formula_34 such as normal spaces have been considered in this definition, but the class formula_56 of metrizable spaces has been found to give the most satisfactory theory. For that reason, the notations AR and ANR by themselves are used in this article to mean formula_57 and formula_58.\n\nA metrizable space is an AR if and only if it is contractible and an ANR. By Dugundji, every locally convex metrizable topological vector space formula_59 is an AR; more generally, every nonempty convex subset of such a vector space formula_59 is an AR. For example, any normed vector space (complete or not) is an AR. More concretely, Euclidean space formula_61 the unit cube formula_62and the Hilbert cube formula_63 are ARs.\n\nANRs form a remarkable class of \"well-behaved\" topological spaces. Among their properties are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2120017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120017", "title": "Chief Justice of South Africa", "text": "Chief Justice of South Africa\n\nThe Chief Justice of South Africa is the most senior judge of the Constitutional Court and head of the judiciary of South Africa, who exercises final authority over the functioning and management of all the courts.\n\nThe position of Chief Justice was created upon the formation of the Union of South Africa in 1910, with the Chief Justice of the Cape Colony Sir (John) Henry de Villiers (later, John de Villiers, 1st Baron de Villiers) being appointed the first Chief Justice of the newly created Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of South Africa.\n\nUntil 1961 the Chief Justice held a dormant commission as Officer Administering the Government, meaning that if the Governor-General died or was incapacitated the Chief Justice would exercise the powers and duties of the Governor-General. This commission was invoked in 1943 under N.J. de Wet, and in 1959 and 1961 under L.C. Steyn.\n\nThe position of Chief Justice as it stands today was created in 2001 by the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution of South Africa, as an amalgamation of two previous high-ranking judicial positions of Chief Justice and President of the Constitutional Court. The Chief Justice therefore now presides over the Constitutional Court. The position of the presiding judge of the Supreme Court of Appeal of South Africa, the successor court to the Appellate Division, was as a consequence renamed President of the Supreme Court of Appeal.\n\nAt the time of South Africa's democratization in the early 1990s, the position of Chief Justice was held by University of Cambridge graduate and World War II veteran Michael Corbett. Corbett took office in 1989, succeeding Chief Justice PJ Rabie, who had been scheduled to retire in 1986 at the statutory retirement age of 70, but had had his tenure in office extended on an ad hoc basis by President P.W. Botha.\n\nHowever, with the fall of Apartheid imminent, the progressively-minded Corbett was eventually handed the job of Chief Justice in 1989. Although appointed by the National Party government, Corbett was generally well liked by those in South Africa's new African National Congress-led government, and upon his retirement in 1996 was given a formal state banquet where President Mandela paid tribute to the Chief Justice's \"passion for justice\", \"sensitivity to racial discrimination\", \"intellectual rigour\" and \"clarity of thought\".\n\nThe first Chief Justice to be appointed in post-apartheid South Africa was Ismail Mahomed, a leading South African jurist of Indian descent, who was selected to succeed Corbett in 1997 and eventually took office in 1998. Mahomed held the position until his death in 2000.\n\nUnder South Africa's Interim Constitution of 1993 and later the Final Constitution, the importance of the position of Chief Justice as the position of final judicial authority was temporarily relegated beneath that of the President of the newly created Constitutional Court. Ismail Mohammed had been tipped widely for the job of Constitutional Court President but in 1994, President Nelson Mandela appointed leading human rights lawyer and director of the Legal Resources Centre Arthur Chaskalson to the position. In 2001, after Mohammed's death and, consequently, with the position of Chief Justice vacant, the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution of South Africa fused the positions of Chief Justice and President of the Constitutional Court into one single job of Chief Justice. Chaskalson was subsequently appointed to the new post, although his tasks remained effectively the same.\n\nSource:\n\"*1828 Supreme Court established\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120019", "title": "Five Dock, New South Wales", "text": "Five Dock, New South Wales\n\nFive Dock is a suburb in the Inner West of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Five Dock is located 10 kilometres west of the Sydney central business district, in the local government area of the City of Canada Bay.\n\nFive Dock lies roughly at the foot, or southern end, of the Drummoyne peninsula. More precisely, Five Dock lies between Parramatta Road and the City West Link Road to the south and Hen and Chicken Bay, on the Parramatta River, along with the suburbs of Wareemba and Russell Lea, to the north. Its total area is .\n\nRodd Point lies to the east. Haberfield adjoins Five Dock to the south-east. Iron Cove forms a small section of the suburb's eastern boundary. Ashfield and Croydon lie on the other side of Parramatta Road, to the south. The suburbs of Canada Bay and Concord adjoin Five Dock's western boundary. Burwood lies just beyond Croydon, to the south-west.\n\nFrom the heart of the shopping centre, it is approximately to Sydney's central business district, measured in a straight line from the original Sydney General Post Office in Martin Place. By road, this same distance is about , depending on the route taken.\n\nOriginally, the local post office was called the \"Wareemba Locality store\", but after the geographical location was changed it was the named to the \"Wareemba Post Office\". \n\nGovernor Phillip's notes suggest that an outbreak of smallpox in early 1789 would have had a devastating impact on the indigenous population in Canada Bay. \nThe earliest written reference to \"Five Dock\" is in \"The Sydney Gazette\" of 3 February 1805, which mentions Five Dock Bay. However, the name probably dates back to the days of the First Settlement. All of the sources referenced are in agreement that it was derived from the shape of the bay along the Parramatta River.\n\nAccording to a publication from the Maritime Services Board, Port of Sydney, (Volume 9, No 3, September 1965), \"At the NE point of the bay there were five water worn indentations that were likened to docks, hence the name Five Dock.\" There is widely contradictory information, however, about how many of these natural formations still exist. The Maritime Services Board publication concludes that there \"are two of the five remaining\". However, Eric Russell's \"Drummoyne: a western suburbs' history from 1794\" states that one was lost with the construction of the 1881 Gladesville Bridge, but \"the others remain in 1982\". Other sources give different numbers again.\n\nMany Five Dock streets are named after mayors, aldermen and other associated with local government, including Charles Street, Corden Avenue, Henley Marine Drive, Hill Street, Howley Street, Ingham Avenue, Kerin Avenue, McGrath Avenue, McKinnon Avenue, Myler Street, Preston Avenue, Sutton Street, Timbrell Drive, Udall Avenue, West Street and William Street.\n\nAnother series of streets is named after early landowners, subdividers and prominent local businessmen, including Ramsay Road, Taylor Street, Mitchell Street, Betts Avenue, Friend Avenue, Harris Road, Gildea Avenue and Bennett Avenue. Rickard Street, Noble Street, Heath Street and Augusta Street were named after Sir Arthur Rickard and members of his family. Rodd Road, Trevanion Street\nand Barnstaple Road are named after Brent Clements Rodd and members of his family. A few streets take their name from local residents, including Mackaness Close and Langsworth Way.\n\nThe Great White Fleet visited Sydney in August 1908 and several local street names recall ships in the fleet. Connecticut Avenue is named after . Illinois Street is named after . Minnesota Avenue takes its name from . New Jersey Road takes its name from .\n\nA few streets are named after prominent people: Queens Road after Queen Victoria; Garfield Avenue after American President James Garfield, Kingsford Avenue after Charles Kingsford Smith, Bevin Avenue after Ernest Bevin and Henry Lawson Avenue after Henry Lawson, who lived on Great North Road briefly in 1922. The name of Coronation Avenue commemorates the coronation of King George VI and Queen Elizabeth.\n\nSt Alban's Anglican Church is a 1924 Gothic church, constructed of brick and stone. It is well-built church, using locally quarried stone, and remains very well preserved. It is a heritage item and is listed in the Department of the Environment and Heritage's Australian Heritage database. Significant or attractive features of the church include its interior carpentry, the pipe organ (which dates from 1891 and was built by W. Davidson) and its stained glass. St Alban's rectory is on the same large site as the church, and together they form an important group. The foundations of the rectory, like those of the church, are constructed of local stone. In 2008 the church was part of an amalgamation with the Parishes of Ashfield and Haberfield, forming Christ Church Inner West Anglican Community.\n\nAll Hallows' Parish School, Domremy College, Five Dock Public School, Lucas Gardens School, Rosebank College.\n\nThe foundation stone of Five Dock Public School was laid in the grounds of St Albans church in 1858, and it opened in 1861.\n\nNamed after Joan of Arc's birthplace, Domremy, Domremy College is a Catholic Secondary School for girls. It is located on First Avenue, opposite Five Dock Park. The school was founded in 1911, initially having just 12 students. The school originally taught students from infants through to the end of senior school. This was later scaled back to just years 7 to 10. However, since 1985, the school has taught girls from year 7 through to year 12. The Domremy Convent group is listed on the NSW Heritage Office State Heritage Register.\n\nHousing in Five Dock consists mainly of detached dwellings. Like many suburbs in the inner-west of Sydney, Five Dock has some well-preserved examples of Australian Federation architecture and California Bungalow style residences. Many of these homes have been renovated however, and have not retained all of their original features.\n\nMany dwellings in Five Dock are detached houses, frequently with generously sized gardens. According to the 2011 census, of the 3,760 dwellings in the suburb, 1,676 consist of separate houses, 472 were other types of houses and 1,228 were flats or apartments. Despite the preponderance of houses, Post-World War II development has involved a high proportion of apartment construction. Recently, several major residential developments have been completed. An example is the 'Pendium' development in Garfield Street, which includes 102 apartments, a refurbished supermarket and the local library. Another recent example is the redevelopment of the former EnergyAustralia site in Fairlight Street into 93 units .\n\nAs of October 2005, there are a total of 51 items in the suburb that are heritage listed by the NSW Heritage Office. In addition, the skateboard track in Five Dock Park is being considered for listing as a heritage item under the State Heritage Items Project .\nThe Five Dock retail and commercial centre is made up of a long line of shops, banks, restaurants and other services which run for about along Great North Road in a section between Lyons Road and Queens Road. It features a high proportion of small local businesses. There are a number of shops selling Italian foods which reflects the number of residents of Italian background. The Five Dock telephone exchange is located at 190-192 Great North Road. Previously home to independent supermarket retailer, Supabarn, Coles purchased key locations from Supabarn and is now the primary supermarket in Five Dock.\n\nFive Dock has two separate stretches of publicly accessible foreshore on the Parramatta River. One of these foreshore stretches constitutes a small section of the Bay Run, a popular 7 km walking and cycling track which passes through several other suburbs along its way around Iron Cove. The other foreshore area lies on Hen and Chicken Bay and Kings Bay, and features a pedestrian and bike path leading around the bay towards Abbotsford.\n\nIn addition, there are several public parks located around Five Dock, the three largest being Timbrell Park, Five Dock Park and Halliday Park. A large section of Barnwell Park Golf Course, which is owned by Canada Bay Council, is located in Five Dock. The northern part of the golf course lies on reclaimed land. \n\nTimbrell Park comprises a number of multi-use sports fields and an amenities block. This field is the home ground of the Five Dock Falcons baseball team. Also located at Timbrell Park is an all abilities playground, Livvi's Place - an initiative of the City of Canada Bay, Touched by Olivia Foundation and Leighton Contractors. Livvi's Place was developed to reduce the barriers experienced by those with special needs, and allow children of all abilities to play together, side-by-side. In 2010, Livvi's Place in Five Dock was named as the best play space in the country by Parks and Leisure Australia. Located outside Livvi's Place is Livvi's Cafe which opened in 2014.\n\nFive Dock Park is listed on the NSW Heritage Office State Heritage Register and centres around The Five Dock War Memorial. The plaque at the memorial says that the foundation stone was laid in 1923. The memorial was renovated and rededicated in 1987. The park also contains a number of recreational facilities, including a large skate boarding area, a bowling club, tennis courts, an oval (used for junior rugby league matches and cricket), childcare facilities and an off-leash area for dogs. Originally constructed in 1979, the park's skate boarding and bmx area was extremely popular during the 1980s but gradually fell into disrepair. An article published in the Village Voice in 2002 said the National Skateboarders' Association had nominated Five Dock skate park as one of the three worst in NSW because it was in such a poor condition, with a subsequent article discussing calls for its upgrade. The new skatepark opened in 2007 was built next to the 'old bowl' and was designed by Mick Mulhall..\n\nThe major regional roads that run through or adjoin Five Dock include Parramatta Road, Lyons Road, Queens Road, Great North Road and the City West Link.\n\nFive Dock is connected to the city centre and surrounding suburbs by public Sydney bus routes.\n\n\"Croydon Station\" was originally named \"Five Dock Station\" when it opened in 1875. The name was changed to \"Croydon\" soon afterwards. \n\nFive Dock is a future rapid transit station that will be built as part of the Sydney Metro West project.\n\nFive Dock is an established suburb with a population of 9,356 in the 2016 census. 61.9% of people were born in Australia. The most common countries of birth were Italy 8.2%, England 2.9%, China 2.8% and New Zealand 2.0%. 61.3% of people only spoke English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Italian 13.4%, Mandarin 3.2%, Cantonese 2.4%, Greek 2.1% and Spanish 1.6%. The most common responses for religion were Catholic 43.2% and No Religion 23.3%.\n\nLike the nearby suburbs of Haberfield and Leichhardt, Five Dock has a large population of Italian immigrants. This Italian influence is reflected in several ways, for instance in the style of the suburb's restaurants, cafes and delis. Five Dock Public School has had an Italian language teaching program since 1981 and there are local private language schools offering Italian classes. In addition, Five Dock has an annual street festival called Ferragosto, based on the traditional Italian festival of the same name.\n\n\nFive Dock is in the federal seat of Reid, an electoral division which includes the surrounding suburbs of Burwood, Concord, Drummoyne, Haberfield, Homebush, Mortlake, Rhodes and Strathfield. A Labor seat since its inception in 1922, it elected a Liberal member for the first time in the 2013 federal election.\n\nIn the NSW parliament, Five Dock is in the Electoral district of Drummoyne, which is somewhat smaller than the federal division, but occupies much of the same area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120020", "title": "1968–69 Bundesliga", "text": "1968–69 Bundesliga\n\nThe 1968–69 Bundesliga was the sixth season of the Bundesliga, West Germany's premier football league. It began on 17 August 1968 and ended on 7 June 1969. 1. FC Nürnberg were the defending champions.\n\nEvery team played two games against each other team, one at home and one away. Teams received two points for a win and one point for a draw. If two or more teams were tied on points, places were determined by goal average. The team with the most points were crowned champions while the two teams with the fewest points were relegated to their respective Regionalliga divisions.\n\nBorussia Neunkirchen and Karlsruher SC were relegated to the Regionalliga after finishing in the last two places. They were replaced by Hertha BSC Berlin and Kickers Offenbach, who won their respective promotion play-off groups.\n\nThe dominant team of the 1968–69 season was FC Bayern Munich. Bayern were in first place of the standings from the very first matchday and never looked back, continuously increasing their margin to eventually eight points, the biggest so far in league history. They were victorious in the DFB Cup as well, beating Schalke in the final by a 2–1 score. Keys to their double win were their improved defense and top scorer Gerd Müller, who scored 30 goals.\n\nBehind Bayern, the league continued to create surprises. Alemannia Aachen ended up in second place after a campaign which featured almost every position between second and 16th. Other notable astonishments were Eintracht Braunschweig, who finished in fourth place, and 1. FC Köln, who ended their season in a dismal 13th position.\n\nKöln even were in danger of being relegated prior to the last matchday, sitting in 15th place with 30 points at that time. They played 1. FC Nürnberg at home, who also were in relegation trouble as 16th-placed team, one point behind Köln. Another match on that day was the clash between 17th-placed Borussia Dortmund and 18th-placed Kickers Offenbach. Both teams had 28 points prior to the game. After the matches were over, both Nürnberg and Offenbach had received 3–0 defeats, resulting in the demotion of both teams.\n\nThe demotion of Nürnberg was especially tragic as they had been Bundesliga champions only 12 months ago. Nevertheless, a pre-season sell-out of their best players and continuous quarrels between coach Max Merkel and his players proved to be costly, and although Merkel was sacked in late March 1969, it was too late to reverse tides. A home draw to Dortmund on matchday 33 and the defeat against Köln one week later eventually sealed their fate.\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120022", "title": "Tom Richmond (illustrator)", "text": "Tom Richmond (illustrator)\n\nTom Richmond (born May 4, 1966) is an American freelance humorous illustrator, cartoonist and caricaturist whose work has appeared in many national and international publications since 1990. He was chosen as the 2011 \"Outstanding Cartoonist of the Year\", also known as \"The Reuben Award\", winner by the National Cartoonists Society.\n\nSome of Richmond's earliest publication work was for the comic book \"Married... with Children\" for NOW Comics, and the mini-series \"The Coneheads\" for Marvel Comics in the early 1990s. Specializing in caricature, he began doing editorial illustrations for magazines, art for advertising and CD-ROM graphics in 1992. In the late 1990s he had a brief stint at Cracked magazine before beginning to work for \"MAD\" magazine in 2000. Now a major contributor to \"MAD\", Richmond's caricatures and cartoons illustrate many of \"MAD's\" trademark movie and TV parodies. He was the first illustrator in the modern (non-comic book) era to do his TV and film parodies in full color, coinciding with \"MAD's\" switch to a color format in 2001. In addition to \"MAD\", Richmond continues to do freelance illustration for a variety of publications and advertising clients.\n\nRichmond's work has also been seen in film and on television. He has a credit in the 2008 film \"Super Capers\" as an illustrator, having contributed caricature illustrations for opening credit and flashback animations for the movie. In 2010 he contributed animation character design for CGI animated segments in the film \"I Want Your Money\", as well as doing the one-sheet poster art. Also in 2010, he began contributing artwork and character design for the Cartoon Network animated show \"MAD\", based on the magazine. In 2019 Richmond created 1960's era \"MAD\" and TV Guide cover illustrations for the Quentin Tarantino film \"Once Upon a Time in Hollywood\" featuring Leonardo DiCaprio's character \"Rick Dalton\" in his fictional TV role from the film. Both illustrations appeared onscreen, and the \"MAD\" cover eventually became an actual cover of \"MAD\" Magazine (#9, Oct 2019) which included a parody of the \"Bounty Law\" TV show from the movie.\n\nRichmond has been honored with several awards, including the Golden Nosey Caricaturist of the Year twice, in 1998 and 1999 by the National Caricaturist Network and with a divisional \"Silver\" Reuben award for Advertising Art in 2003, 2006 and 2007, Newspaper Illustration in 2009, and Magazine Illustration in 2015, from the National Cartoonists Society. In 2011, Richmond became the 34th president of the Society, succeeding Jeff Keane, and served two terms though 2015. NCS presidents are chosen for two-year terms.\n\nRichmond designed the look of Achmed Junior, one of the puppets used by ventriloquist Jeff Dunham, which made his debut in Dunham's 2010 Identity Crisis tour, and made his first onscreen appearance in Dunham's 2011 Comedy Central special, \"Jeff Dunham: Controlled Chaos\".\n\nIn 2011, Deadline Demon Publishing published Richmond's book on the art of drawing caricatures, \"The Mad Art of Caricature! A Serious Guide to Drawing Funny Faces\".\n\nOn August 27, 2006, he appeared in the comic strip \"Pearls Before Swine\". Richmond returned the favor by caricaturing the strip's creator Stephan Pastis inside a garbage can, in a 2006 issue of \"Mad\".\n\nOn December 30, 2012, he appeared in Mort Walker's comic strip \"Beetle Bailey\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2120025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120025", "title": "USS Wolverine (IX-64)", "text": "USS Wolverine (IX-64)\n\nUSS \"Wolverine\" (IX-64) was a training ship used by the United States Navy during World War II. She was originally named \"Seeandbee\" and was built as a Great Lakes luxury side-wheel steamer cruise ship for the Cleveland and Buffalo Transit Company. \"Seeandbee\" was launched on 9 November 1912 and was normally used on the Cleveland, Ohio to Buffalo, New York route with special cruises to other ports. After the original owners went bankrupt in 1939 \"Seeandbee\" was purchased by Chicago-based C & B Transit Company and continued operating until 1941.\n\n\"Seeandbee\" was acquired by the United States Navy in 1942 and was quickly converted into a freshwater aircraft carrier for the advanced training of naval aviators in carrier take-offs and landings. Renamed USS \"Wolverine\" she was not equipped with armor, hangar deck, elevators or armaments. \"Wolverine\" was shorter and lower to the water than many of the aircraft carriers of the day but she was instrumental in her pilot training mission.\n\nThe first aircraft landing on USS \"Wolverine\" occurred during September 1942. From 1943 until the end of the war in 1945 USS \"Wolverine\" along with her sister ship was used for the training of 17,000 pilots, landing signal officers and other navy personnel with minimal losses. Following the end of World War II the Navy decommissioned \"Wolverine\" on 7 November 1945 and she was sold for scrap in December 1947.\n\n\"Seeandbee\" was designed by naval architect Frank E. Kirby for the Cleveland and Buffalo Transit Company of Cleveland, Ohio. She was designed for luxury overnight service between Cleveland and Buffalo, New York and the company's previous experience led it to require two basic design features for the ship. First was paddle propulsion which offered an increased maneuvering capability and stability in rough weather along with more space for cabins and decks. Second, was using a more expensive and much heavier compound inclined steam engine that could develop 12,000 horsepower at low revolutions without the vibration associated with lighter vertical type steam engines. It was felt that meeting these design features would improve passenger comfort and their desire for a good night's sleep.\n\nThe ship was built by the Detroit Shipbuilding Company, soon to be acquired and renamed American Ship Building Company, of Wyandotte, Michigan. \"Seeandbee\", the largest side-wheel steamer in the world at the time, was launched on 9 November 1912. According to the Interstate Commerce Commission the ship's tonnage was and .\n\nThe interior design was by Louis O. Keil and luxury was a key element. Passengers boarded through a mahogany paneled lobby with a Tuscan theme. The steward's office, purser's offices, telephone booths and a stairway to the promenade deck were protected by a vestibule equipped with sliding doors. The main dining room, which was aft and extended to the rear of the ship, was paneled in mahogany and white enamel. The main dining room had alcoves with bay windows that provided some relatively private dining areas for the passengers. A banquet room was on the starboard side and two private dining rooms on the port side. A staircase led to a buffet area, below the main dining room, that was decorated in the style of an old English tavern.\n\n\"Seeandbee\" featured a main saloon on the promenade deck that extended almost in length. This area was subdivided into sections including a book shop, flower booths, an observation room as well as separate writing rooms for men and women. A number of private parlors were constructed, each was different design and contained beds, a private bath and balconies. When an orchestra played on its own balcony at the end of the main saloon the music could be heard in the parlors, the saloon, above in the atrium, and in the ladies drawing room. On the gallery deck was the ladies drawing room in Italian Renaissance style with built in seats and above, on the next deck, was an Atrium with sleeping rooms adjoining. Amidships on the gallery deck was the lounge with seating and provision for light refreshments.\nPassengers were accommodated in 510 rooms, of which 424 were regulation, 62 were fitted with private toilet and 24 were \"parlors \"en suite\"\" giving sleeping room for 1,500 persons and capable of carrying a total of 6,000 passengers and 1,500 tons of cargo loaded on the main deck.\n\nThe ship's dimensions as built were length overall, between perpendiculars, molded hull beam, extreme beam over guards with extreme depth of hull at stem being and molded depth. The hull was entirely steel with a double bottom extending almost containing water ballast and divided lengthwise with a watertight bulkhead and by transverse bulkheads into fourteen compartments. Above that ballast compartment the ship was divided by eleven watertight bulkheads extending from keel to main deck with hydraulic doors operated from the engine room. In total there were seven decks: tank top, orlop, main, promenade, gallery, upper and dome. Steel was used to the promenade deck with fire protection for beams above that level and fireproof doors provided compartmentalization and steel fire curtains in cargo spaces. For fire alarm purposes the vessel was divided into fifty sections with fire hydrants spaced so that permanently attached hoses reached every point in the vessel and an extensive sprinkler system.\n\nPropulsion was by an inclined, three-cylinder steam engine below the main deck with only the main bearing tops, upper parts of the valves and handling levers above the main deck. The engine was unique in using a Walschaert gear, normally used on locomotives, to drive a Corliss gear for the two low-pressure cylinders and the poppet type valves on the high-pressure portion. The speed guarantee of was met by the engine's at 31 revolutions per minute. The high-pressure cylinder, in diameter, was centered between the two low-pressure cylinders of diameter with steam provided by six single ended and three double ended Scotch boilers forward of the engine room delivering steam at 165 pounds per square inch. The single ended boilers were inside diameter by length and the double ended boilers were mean diameter by length. The two diameter paddle wheels each had eleven steel buckets long by wide. Due to the restricted channels at both Cleveland and Buffalo additional maneuvering capability was required and a bow rudder and steam steering engine were provided.\n\nWashed air ventilation units provided fresh air for all interior spaces with exhaust fans for removal of foul air. Three steam turbines drove generator sets providing electricity for 4,500 electric lights, including the largest searchlight () on the Great Lakes, and the ship was extensively electrified for auxiliary functions. Over 500 telephones were onboard, with one in every stateroom, the officer's quarters and booths in passenger areas as part of a public system and a private system for use in ship operations.\n\nThe name for the ship \"Seeandbee\", based on the initials of the company that owned the ship, was chosen by means of a contest in which the winner received a prize of $10.00 and a free trip on the ship. When completed \"Seeandbee\" left Detroit the morning of 19 June 1913 on its maiden voyage. After stopping in Cleveland at the East 9th Street pier, \"Seeandbee\" then headed to Buffalo arriving the next morning to what was called a \"Royal Welcome\". While at Buffalo the ship was open for free tours and a reception was held for the Buffalo Chamber of Commerce by the Cleveland Chamber of Commerce who had chartered the trip.\n\nIn addition to the scheduled operation between Cleveland and Buffalo the vessel made special cruises to Detroit and Chicago along with other ports on the Great Lakes. In an advertisement dated 12 June 1914, the cost to travel between Cleveland to Buffalo on \"Seeandbee\" was touted to be less than a railroad ticket and that any railroad ticket for travel between the two cities would be accepted. During August 1930 C & B Transit issued a $10,000 challenge to prove that \"Seeandbee\" was the \"fastest on the lakes\" but the challenge was never accepted by the other steamship companies. For the 1933 Chicago World's Fair \"Seeandbee\" was scheduled to make a number of all-inclusive trips that summer. Prior to the start of the 1937 sailing season \"Seeandbee\" underwent refitting. A new large ballroom was constructed on the upper deck, stateroom space was converted into parlors, and new showers, baths and beauty parlors were added to the ship.\n\nDue to heavy losses in 1938 Cleveland and Buffalo Transit was liquidated in 1939 with the vessel acquired by the Chicago-based C&B Transit Company. \"Seeandbee\" was used for short excursion trips as well. A 1940 newspaper article from Buffalo, New York shows that \"Seeandbee\" was booked by the local Democratic Party office for their annual \"lake cruise and party rendezvous\" from 1 p.m. to midnight.\n\nIn 1941, prior to American entry into World War II, the need to be able to train pilots in aircraft carrier takeoffs and landings became an area of concern. There were a limited number of aircraft carriers available and these were assigned to front line duties. Commander Richard F. Whitehead made the initial proposal of converting lake steamers into training aircraft carriers but his idea was met with little interest. Following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor his proposal was fast tracked by Admiral Ernest J. King Chief of Naval Operations. The option of using a lake steamer decided upon for a number of reasons including that a new ship wouldn't have to be built from scratch which would free up resources for other ship production and that a suitable size ocean vessel or an existing aircraft carrier was too wide to fit through the Welland Canal.\n\nThe Navy acquired \"Seeandbee\" from the C&B Transit Company on 12 March 1942 for the price of $756,500 and designated her an unclassified miscellaneous auxiliary vessel, IX-64. \"Seeandbee\"s existing superstructure was removed at Cleveland, Ohio and the ship was towed to Buffalo to undergo refitting by the American Shipbuilding Company. From 6 May 1942 a long wooden flight deck was installed, a new bridge island was built, arresting cables were installed, and the funnels were rerouted to the starboard side of the ship, along with other modification. Unable to fit in a dry dock due to its size, the ship was refitted while still afloat. At its peak a crew of 1,250 men worked round the clock and it was reported that 45 miles of welding as well as 57,000 bolts with washers and grommets were used during the refit operations. A Coast Guard substation was set up to provide security for the work and no pedestrians or vehicles were allowed near the work site.\n\nThe name \"Wolverine\" was approved on 2 August 1942 with the ship being commissioned on 12 August 1942 at Buffalo, New York with Commander G. R. Fairlamb in command. The commissioning ceremony was closed to the public and was attended by only certain dignitaries, the new crew and roughly five hundred workmen who were still on board. Intended to operate on Lake Michigan, IX-64 received her name because the state of Michigan is known as the Wolverine State.\n\n\"Wolverine\" began her new assignment in January 1943 stationed at Chicago, Illinois at what came to be called Navy Pier assigned to the 9th Naval District Carrier Qualification Training Unit. Her sister ship, , joined \"Wolverine\" in May 1943 and the two ships began to be casually referred to as the \"Corn Belt Fleet\". By 7 May 1943 it was reported that the 7,000th successful landing had been made on \"Wolverine\".\n\nIn conjunction with NAS Glenview, the two paddle-wheelers afforded critical training in basic carrier operations to thousands of pilots and also to smaller numbers of Landing Signal Officers (LSOs). \"Wolverine\" and \"Sable\" enabled the pilots and LSOs to learn to handle take-offs and landings on a real flight deck. \"Sable\" and \"Wolverine\" were a far cry from front-line carriers, but they accomplished the Navy's purpose: qualifying naval aviators fresh from operational flight training in carrier landings.\n\n\"Wolverine\" and \"Sable\" were not true aircraft carriers and they had certain limitations. One was that there were no elevators or hangar decks to store damaged aircraft. If all the storage spaces on the flight deck were filled with damaged aircraft, the day's operations were over and the carriers headed back to their pier in Chicago. Landing aircraft on calm days became another problem for the carriers. Neither carrier was able to generate sufficient speed to meet the \"wind over deck\" (WOD) landing minimums for aircraft such as F6F Hellcats, F4U Corsairs, TBM Avengers and SBD Dauntlesses. When there was little or no wind on Lake Michigan, operations often had to be curtailed. Occasionally, when low-wind conditions persisted for several days and the pool of waiting aviators started to bunch up, the Navy turned to an alternate system of qualifications. The pilots qualified in SNJ Texans – even though most pilots had last flown the SNJ four or five months earlier.\n\nOnce the war was over, the need for such training ships came to an end. The Navy decommissioned \"Wolverine\" on 7 November 1945; three weeks later, on 28 November, she was struck from the Naval Vessel Register. \"Wolverine\" was then transferred to the War Shipping Administration on 14 November 1945 The ship was offered to U.S. citizens for either U.S. flag operation or scrapping and sold 21 November 1947 to A. F. Wagner Iron Works of Milwaukee, Wisconsin for $46,789 to be scrapped.\n\nThe Department of Justice brought a case regarding the sale of \"Seeandbee\" to the U.S. Government. The case involved claims that the value of the ship was knowingly inflated by $275,000 by using false statements regarding the amount of time the C&B Transit Company owned \"Seeandbee\", false statements regarding the amount invested in the ship and submitting falsified records that inflated the earnings produced from operating \"Seeandbee\". The former president of the C&B Transit Company plead Nolo contendere and was fined $5,000. The government was able to recover the $275,000 from five former stock holders of the C&B Transit Company in addition to $235,981 in taxes that had been paid on capital gains.\n\nUSS \"Wolverine\" received the following awards for its World War II Service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120026", "title": "Werner Best", "text": "Werner Best\n\nKarl Rudolf Werner Best (10 July 1903 – 23 June 1989) was a German Nazi, jurist, police chief, SS-\"Obergruppenführer\" and Nazi Party leader and theoretician from Darmstadt, Hesse. He was the first chief of Department 1 of the Gestapo, Nazi Germany's secret police, and initiated a registry of all Jews in Germany. As a deputy of SS-\"Obergruppenführer\" Reinhard Heydrich, he organized the World War II SS-\"Einsatzgruppen\" paramilitary death squads that were responsible for mass killings.\n\nBest served in the German military occupation administration of France (1940–1942), and then became the civilian administrator of occupied Denmark (1942–1945). Convicted of war crimes in Denmark, Best was released in 1951. He escaped further prosecution in West Germany in 1972 due to ill health and died in 1989, aged 85.\n\nWerner Best was born on 10 July 1903 in Darmstadt, but his parents moved to Dortmund when he was nine before settling in Mainz, where he completed his education. His father was a postmaster, who was killed in France at the outset of World War I. In his younger years, Best founded the German National Youth League and joined the National People's Party of Mainz. Between 1921 and 1925, he studied law at Frankfurt am Main, Freiburg, Giessen, and the University of Heidelberg, where in 1927, he obtained his doctorate.\n\nOwing to his political resistance activities against the French occupation of the Ruhr, Best was arrested and briefly imprisoned. In 1930 Best joined the Nazi Party (NSDAP) and by 1931—before the Nazis assumed power—he was already a member of the SS. Sometime in 1931, he was forced out of judicial service in the German federal state of Hesse following the discovery of the Boxheim Documents, which were blueprints for a Nazi putsch he had written.\n\nAs a trained lawyer, Heydrich and Himmler counted on Best throughout the 1930s for his skills in conceptualizing and justifying National Socialist law, which helped provide the SS-police apparatus with its nearly unrestricted power over German society. Dedicated to the national-racial cause of the Nazis and typifying the ideal administrator for its terror apparatus, Best quickly rose to the rank of SS-\"Brigadeführer\" and became chief of Department 1 of the Gestapo, which was in charge of organization, administration, and legal affairs. He was a deputy to Reinhard Heydrich. Both men saw the Gestapo as actually working on \"behalf of the German people\" through both \"ethnic and political purification\". During 1934, Ernst Röhm pushed for greater political influence for his already powerful Nazi paramilitary organisation, the \"Sturmabteilung\" (SA). Hitler decided that the SA had to be eliminated as an independent political force. On 30 June 1934 the SS and Gestapo acted in coordinated mass arrests that continued for two days. While Heydrich coordinated the operation from Berlin, Best was sent to Munich to \"oversee a wave of arrests\" in the southern part of Germany. The purge became known as the Night of the Long Knives. Up to 200 people, including Röhm, were killed in the action.\n\nEven though Canadian historian Robert Gellately wrote that most Gestapo men were not Nazis, at the same time they were not opposed to the Nazi regime, which they were willing to serve, in whatever task they were called upon to perform. Over time, membership in the Gestapo included ideological training, particularly once Best assumed a leading role for training in April 1936. Employing biological metaphors, Best emphasized a doctrine which encouraged members of the Gestapo to view themselves as 'doctors' to the national body in the struggle against \"pathogens\" and \"diseases\"; among the implied sicknesses were \"communists, Freemasons, and the churches—and above and behind all these stood the Jews.\" Heydrich thought along similar lines and advocated both defensive and offensive measures on the part of the Gestapo, so as to prevent any subversion or destruction of the National Socialist body.\n\nOn 27 September 1939, the SD and SiPo (made up of the Gestapo and the Kripo) were folded into the new Reich Main Security Office (\"Reichssicherheitshauptamt\"; RSHA), which was placed under Heydrich's control. Best was made head of Amt I (Department I) of the RSHA: Administration and Legal. That department dealt with the legal and personnel issues/matters of the SS and security police. Heydrich and Heinrich Himmler relied on Best to develop and explain legally the activities against enemies of the state and in relation to the Nazi Jewish policy. In 1939 Best became one of the directors of Heydrich's foundation, the Stiftung Nordhav, and was placed in command of choosing leaders for the \"Einsatzgruppen\" task forces and their subgroups (the \"Einsatzkommandos)\" from among educated people with military experience; many of them former members of the \"Freikorps\".\n\nWerner Best lost a power struggle within the RSHA, and had to leave Berlin in 1940. With the military grade of War Administration Chief (\"Kriegsverwaltungschef\"), Best was appointed chief of the Section \"Administration\" (\"Abteilung Verwaltung\") of the Administration Staff (\"Verwaltungsstab\", Dr Schmid) under then (\"Militärbefehlshaber in Frankreich\" or MBF) \"Military Commander in France\", General Otto von Stülpnagel in occupied France. Best held this position until 1942.\n\nIn his efforts as the RSHA emissary in France, Best's unit drew up radical plans for a total reorganization of Western Europe based on racial principles: he sought to unite Netherlands, Flanders and French territory north of the Loire river into the Reich, turn Wallonia and Brittany into German protectorates, merge Northern Ireland with the Irish Free State, create a decentralized British federation and break Spain into independent entities of Galicia, Basque Country and Catalonia.\nAfter the November 1942 Telegram Crisis, Best was appointed the Third Reich's Plenipotentiary (\"Reichsbevollmächtigter\") in occupied Denmark, which gave him supervisory control of civilian affairs there. Meanwhile, King Christian X, unlike most Heads of state under Nazi German occupation, remained in power, along with the Danish Parliament, cabinet (a coalition of national unity) and courts. When the Nazis attempted to deport Denmark's Jews, the cabinet and Christian X objected.\n\nBest kept his position in Denmark until the end of the war in May 1945, even after the German military commander, Hermann von Hanneken—who had been encouraged by Hitler to rule Denmark with an iron hand—had assumed direct control over its administration on 29 August 1943.\n\nTo avoid deportation of Danes to German concentration camps, the permanent secretary of the ministry of foreign affairs, Nils Svenningsen, in January 1944 proposed establishment of an internment camp within Denmark. Best accepted this proposal, but on condition that the camp be built close to the German border. Frøslev Prison Camp was opened in August 1944.\n\nIn compliance with the Danish cabinet's decision on 9 April 1940 to accept cooperation with German authorities, the Danish police did cooperate with German occupation forces. This arrangement remained in effect even after the Danish government resigned on 29 August 1943. On 12 May 1944, Best demanded that the Danish police should assume responsibility for protection of 57 enterprises the Germans deemed at risk of sabotage by the Danish resistance movement, which was growing in strength. Should the Danish civil administration not do so, total Danish police strength would be reduced to 3,000 men. Nils Svenningsen, who functioned as \"de facto\" head of the Danish civil administration in the absence of a Danish government, was inclined to accept this demand, but the organizations of the Danish police opposed it.\n\nFollowing rejection of the German request, a state of emergency was declared in Denmark on 29 August 1943. Then on 19 September 1944, the German army began arresting members of the Danish police forces; 1,984 policemen out of 10,000 were arrested and deported to German concentration and prisoner-of-war camps, most of them to Buchenwald.\n\nIn deliberations on 3 May 1945 about preparation for the impending German defeat, Best fought to avoid implementation of a scorched earth policy in Denmark. Best also possibly sabotaged the rounding up of the Jewish population in Denmark in order to avoid agitating the general Danish population. In the Rescue of the Danish Jews, the primary escape route was to cross Øresund to Sweden by boat. At the most critical time, all German patrol boats of the area were ordered into harbor for three weeks for new paint jobs. Best may have tipped off his Jewish tailor about this development—but Danish authorities credit Best's right-hand man, Georg Duckwitz—which contributed to the escape of a number of Jews. During his trial before Danish courts, Best insisted that the Jews were able to escape because he provided the dates to Duckwitz.\n\nAfter the war, Best testified as a witness at the Nuremberg Trial of the Major War Criminals, during which he attempted to present the Gestapo as a harmless state organization that was subordinated to state leaders and was nearly undifferentiated from Germany's criminal police. Historian Giles McDonough characterized Best's testimony as a \"revisionist interpretation of the Gestapo.\" For instance, Best claimed that the Gestapo primarily instituted investigations in response to reports from the general public and that only serious cases of treason warranted \"enhanced interrogations\" under strict guidelines, during which no confession were ever extorted from the accused.\n\nIn 1948, Best was sentenced to death by a Danish court, but his sentence was reduced to 12 years on appeal. Best was released in 1951 as part of a Danish amnesty program for Nazi war criminals. In 1958 Best was fined 70,000 marks by a Berlin de-Nazification court for his actions as an SS officer during the war. In March 1969, Best was held in detention and in February 1972 he was charged again, when further war crimes allegations arose, but he was released in August 1972 on grounds that he was medically unfit to stand trial. After that, Best was part of a network that helped former Nazis and spent his time \"campaigning for a general amnesty\". He died in Mülheim, North Rhine-Westphalia, on 23 June 1989. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120033", "title": "Plextor", "text": "Plextor\n\nPlextor (styled PLEXTOR) (; ) is a Taiwanese brand (however, a Japanese brand before 2010), best known for solid-state drives and optical disc drives.\n\nThe brand name Plextor was used for all products manufactured by the Electronic Equipment Division and Printing Equipment Division of the Japanese company \"Plextor Inc.\", which was and is a 100%-owned subsidiary company of \"Shinano Kenshi Corp.\", also a Japanese company. The brand was formerly known as TEXEL, under which name it introduced its first CD-ROM optical disc drive in 1989. The brand has been used for flash memory products, Blu-ray players and burners, DVD-ROM burners, CD-ROM burners, DVD and CD media, network hard disks, portable hard disks, digital video recorders, and floppy disk drives.\n\nThe brand Plextor was in 2010 licensed to \"Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions Corporation\", a subsidiary company of \"Lite-On Technology Corporation\". Therefore, all the Plextor products since then, especially SSDs, are of a Taiwanese, not a Japanese brand. However, the Japanese company \"Plextor Inc.\", who originated this brand name, continues, and sells new products under other brands such as PLEXLOGGER and PLEXTALK.\n\nIn an effort to strengthen its storage leader position, Plextor introduced its first-ever solid state drives, the M1 SSD series available in 64 GB and 128 GB capacities. Soon after its M1 release, Plextor released the M2 Series 128 GB, and 256 GB, available in 64, using SATA 6 Gbit/s interface, which they claimed to be the first SATA 3 SSD available at the time.\n\nIn October 2011, Plextor announced the limited edition M2P Series which boast significant increase in speed performance from its M2 Series. Notably, Plextor introduced \"ironclad\" five-year warranty for its SSD, making them one of the few manufacturers to do so. In addition to the five-year warranty, Plextor introduced its exclusive TrueSpeed Technology with the M2P series. True Speed Technology is designed to maintain high speed in the real-world computing environment. It consistently works to maintain original performance levels in the long term and without the severe write speed degradation that can occur with other SSDs.\n\nIn December 2011 and January 2012, Plextor released the M3 and M3 Pro Series in 64 GB, 128 GB, 256 GB, and 512 GB capacities. Similar to its predecessor, the M3 is a SATA 6 Gbit/s interface with a Marvell chip set. New, is the 24 nm Toggle NAND Flash (instead of 32 nm Toggle NAND Flash used for the M1, M2, and M2P). The sequential read-write speed of the M3 Series max at 540/450 MB/s while the random read-write speed max out at 75,000/69,000.\n"}
{"id": "2120035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120035", "title": "Tomislav Ivčić", "text": "Tomislav Ivčić\n\nTomislav Ivčić (6 January 1953 – 4 March 1993) was a Croatian pop singer, songwriter and politician. He died in a car accident and is buried in Zagreb at the Mirogoj Cemetery.\n\nA native of Zadar, Tomislav Ivčić became one of the most popular singers and songwriters during his appearances on 1970s pop music festivals. His specialty was pop music inspired by Dalmatian folklore. One of his early hits included the country-rock influenced single \"Nemam za kavu\" from 1979. Ivčić also wrote and performed \"Večeras je naša fešta\", a song that would become a semi-official anthem of Dalmatia, often sung and performed whenever a Dalmatian athlete or sports team won a title or important game. He has written over two hundred songs and released twenty three albums during his career.\n\nDuring the war in Croatia, Ivčić wrote the song \"Stop the War in Croatia\" which became a hit. It even charted in the Top 10 in Australia in 1991. In 1990, Ivčić also became a member of Croatian Democratic Union. In February 1993 he ran as his party's candidate for House of Chambers of Croatian Parliament, and won a seat. A few weeks before he was supposed to take office and shortly after a \"Globus\" interview in which he was described as \"first Croatian senator,\" his automobile was involved in traffic accident that would claim his and lives of three more people.\n\nHis older half-brother Đani Maršan is also an accomplished singer and songwriter, and his other older brother Vedran Ivčić, was, to a lesser degree, as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120049", "title": "New Bedford Whaling Museum", "text": "New Bedford Whaling Museum\n\nThe New Bedford Whaling Museum is a museum in New Bedford, Massachusetts, United States that focuses on the history of the international whaling industry and the \"Old Dartmouth\" region (now the city of New Bedford and towns of Acushnet, Dartmouth, Fairhaven, and Westport) in the South Coast of Massachusetts. The museum is governed by the Old Dartmouth Historical Society (ODHS), and its collections include over 750,000 items, including 3,000 pieces of scrimshaw and 2,500 logbooks from whaling ships, both of which are the largest collections in the world. The museum's complex consists of several contiguous buildings housing 20 exhibit galleries and occupying an entire city block within the New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park.\n\nThe museum also houses a collection of fine art, including works by major American artists who lived or worked in the New Bedford area, such as Albert Bierstadt, William Bradford, and Albert Pinkham Ryder, as well as a collection of locally produced decorative art, glassware, and furniture associated with the rise of New Bedford as a whaling port in the 19th century.\n\nThe museum's Bourne Building houses the \"Lagoda\", a half-scale model of a whaling ship that was commissioned in 1916 and is the world's largest model whaling ship.\n\nOn January 7, 1903, Ellis L. Howland, a news reporter for the \"Evening Standard\", presented a paper urging the establishment of a historical society and a museum:\nI believe that the need of a historical society arose not recently but generations ago when the history of New Bedford and vicinity commenced. Today we are suffering from the omission and if it is in the least deplorable it will be doubly a breach of our duty toward posterity to allow the lack to exist any longer ... True, there are a few old log books stored away in the public library or here and there in the closet of some private collector, but when one contemplates the tons and tons of them that have been ground up into wrapping paper of prosaic fiber wash tubs, the absence of a historical society becomes in our minds almost a crime.\n\nOn 22 July 1903, the 100 founding constituents of the Old Dartmouth Historical Society selected William W. Crapo, a local lawyer and congressman, as their president. At first, the museum rented rooms to display and store artifacts in the Masonic Lodge on the corner of Pleasant and Union Streets. By 1904, their membership had grown to almost 700, and collections had been expanded to include some 560 artifacts.\n\nIn 1906, Henry Huttleston Rogers donated the Bank of Commerce Building on Water Street to the ODHS for the purpose of establishing a museum. One year later, the New Bedford Whaling Museum was opened.\n\nThe New Bedford Whaling Museum grew considerably during the 1910s and 1920s. In 1914, the ODHS appointed Frank Wood as the curator and first full-time staff member. In 1915, Emily Bourne donated the Bourne Building in memory of her father, Jonathan Bourne Jr. She also contributed funds for the construction of a half-sized model of her father's ship \"Lagoda\", which was built inside the Bourne Building in 1916. Nationwide interest in whaling history was raised by the 1922 film \"Down to the Sea in Ships\", which was filmed in New Bedford and featured many New Bedford locals dressed up in their grandparents' clothing as extras.\n\nBy the 1930s, the New Bedford Whaling Museum was attracting four to ten thousand visitors a year, most of whom were from out of town. The museum further expanded with the bequest of the Wood Building by Annie Seabury Wood in 1935. In 1936, the museum acquired its first whale skeleton, a three-year-old humpback whale known as Quasimodo. In the words of curator William Tripp, \"We are no longer a whaling museum without a whale, as some in the past have chosen to call us.\"\n\nIn 1953, the whaling film, \"All the Brothers Were Valiant\", premiered in New Bedford.\n\nThe anti-whaling movement of the 1970s led Curator of Ethnology John R. Bockstoce to research and compile the most complete data on the bowhead whale to date, reestablishing the importance of the preservation of historical whaling documents.\n\nIn 1996, the museum played a large role in establishing a New Bedford Whaling National Historic Park, a national park that includes several New Bedford historical sites, including the Seamen's Bethel, which is located across the street from the Whaling Museum. The museum features a twenty-minute short film titled \"The City that Lit the World\" courtesy of the National Park Service. 1996 was also the year of the first annual \"Moby-Dick\" Marathon Reading.\n\nIn 1998, the New Bedford Whaling Museum collaborated with the Azorean Maritime Heritage Society to build the Azorean Whaleman Gallery, an exhibition devoted to the contributions of Azorean sailors and whaleboat builders to US whaling history. In August 2000, the Jacobs Family Gallery was built thanks to the donation of Irwin and Joan Jacobs. The humpback whale skeleton Quasimodo was moved to the new Jacobs Family Gallery and suspended alongside a new juvenile blue whale skeleton, named KOBO (King of the Blue Ocean).\n\nIn October 2001, negotiations began to merge the Kendall Whaling Museum, which was founded in 1955 by Henry P. Kendall and opened in 1956, with the New Bedford Whaling Museum. The merger was finalized in October 2001, and the Kendall Whaling Museum's artifacts were moved to the New Bedford Whaling Museum by November 2002. As a result, the museum added some 70,000 artifacts to its collections, effectively doubling its size. To accommodate all these artifacts, the museum acquired a former bank building on Purchase Street three blocks west of the museum campus on Johnny Cake Hill. The Purchase Street Building housed the museum's Research Library for several years; in 2017 it moved to a new building on the main museum campus.\n\nIn 2002, the New Bedford Whaling Museum partnered with the Melville Society, and it now houses their extensive Melville collection in the Research Library.\n\nIn 2002, the museum acquired the skeleton of a sperm whale, and in 2008, it acquired the skeleton of a North Atlantic right whale which was pregnant at the time of its death.\n\nThe museum's Jonathan Bourne Building houses the \"Lagoda\", a half-scale model of whaling ship \"Lagoda\" that was built in 1916. The \"Lagoda\" is in length and has a mainmast in height, making it the world's largest model whaling ship. It is fully rigged and showcases some of the supplies needed for an extended whaling voyage.\n\nThe Bourne Building also houses a permanent installation that explores the Azorean impact on the growth and development of Southern New England and of New Bedford in particular, which is home to a vibrant Azorean community. The exhibit contains many artifacts related to whaling in the Azores and the islanders' journey to a new life in the US via a \"bridge of whale ships.\" The exhibit features a half-scale model of an Azorean whaleboat and a \"vigia\", an Azorean whaling lookout.\n\nThe museum is home to five fully articulated whale skeletons: a blue whale, a humpback whale, a sperm whale, and a pregnant mother and fetus North Atlantic right whale. All of the specimens came from animals that either died accidentally or by undetermined circumstances, and were not killed as a result of whaling. The first skeleton to be acquired was a three-year-old male humpback whale named Quasimodo, which died in 1932. The blue whale is a juvenile male named KOBO. The sperm whale is a 30-year-old male. The right whales include a 15-year-old female named Reyna that was ten months pregnant and her fetus.\n\nThis exhibit explores the region of Old Dartmouth from the 1602 landing of English explorer Bartholomew Gosnold to the dominance of New Bedford in the whaling industry. It explores themes related to religion, geography, and maritime commerce, which combined to influence the colonial growth of southeastern Massachusetts and the ultimate success of the port of New Bedford, which surpassed Nantucket as the US's largest whaling center around 1827.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120050", "title": "International Society of Caricature Artists", "text": "International Society of Caricature Artists\n\nThe International Society of Caricature Artists (previously known as the National Caricaturist Network) is an international non-profit trade association founded in 1989. Its purpose is to promote the art of caricature, educate the public and the media about the art of caricature and to provide its members with helpful information about caricature as an art form as well as a profession. The ISCA currently (2019) has close to 500 members from around the world. Members receive the quarterly magazine, Exaggerated Features, which has articles about caricaturing, featured artists tips and stories as well as other useful information about caricature illustration. The ISCA annual convention is held each year in a different location. The conventions features a guest speaker, lectures, seminars, competitions, awards and the camaraderie of your peers in the art of caricature drawing.\n\nThe quarterly newsletter, Exaggerated Features, is sent to the members and an annual convention is held for socialization as well as education and competition. \n\nThe NCN was formed by Wallace \"Buddy\" Rose. Buddy created a forum for caricaturists by providing a quarterly newsletter and annual convention. The original goal was to create an organization that would seek out charitable and mutual benefits for united artists. It operated briefly as a booking agency until filing its application in compliance with article 5154a making it a trade union in 1994. In 1995 the new constitution was ratified in San Antonio, TX, the NCN was granted non-profit status, and the first election was held. In 2005, the NCN was changed into a non-profit, unincorporated association.\n\nThe association boasts some of the most recognizable names in the industry as members and friends of the NCN. Jack Davis, Sergio Aragones, Mort Drucker and Tom Richmond of Mad Magazine, Jan Op De Beeck, Maria Bolton, Sam Norkin, Rudy Cristiano, Bruce Blitz, C. F. Payne, Pancho Willmarth, Mike Peters, Steve Silver and Sebastian Krüger have all been keynote speakers and members. Many NCN members are accomplished as artists not only in caricaturing, but in other artistic fields as well.\n\nThe NCN officially changed its name to the International Society of Caricature Artists in 2009 to better reflect its international growth and presence. As of 2010 it has over 600 members worldwide. In recent years the International Society of Caricature Artists annual convention has featured guests of honor such as Sam Viviano, Dan Adel, Tom Richmond, Hermann Mejia, Mark Fredrickson and Bill Plympton. In 2011, ISCA will celebrate its 20th anniversary.\n\nEvery year at the ISCA Convention, all of the participants vote for the best caricature artist of the year, upon several other categories, and award the Golden Nosey:\n"}
{"id": "2120056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120056", "title": "Zlatan Stipišić Gibonni", "text": "Zlatan Stipišić Gibonni\n\nZlatan Stipišić, also known as Gibonni, (born 13 August 1968) is a Croatian singer-songwriter and composer from Split. He is one of the most successful and awarded recording artists from Croatia, receiving record-high 40 Porin music awards for his albums and songs.\n\nAmong his earliest solo works, \"Činim pravu stvar\" and \"Divji cvit\" are widely considered to be one of the most emotional Croatian-language songs of all time.\n\nBorn in a family with a strong musical tradition (his father, Ljubo Stipišić, was a well-known composer and poet), Zlatan Stipišić, who later embraced the nickname Gibonni, began his career in the 1980s with the heavy metal band Osmi putnik. After the group disbanded, Stipišić joined Divlje jagode, recording few demo tapes before disbanding. It was Zele Lipovača, the lead guitarist of Jagode, who gave Stipišić the nickname \"Gibonni\".\n\nGibonni started his solo career in the 1990s with songs that combined elements of rock, modern pop and Dalmatian folk songs. He soon created a huge following, especially among Croatian youth. Gibonni's popularity continued to grow beyond Croatia and he is currently one of the most popular and influential musicians in the territories of former Yugoslavia. Gibonni wrote the song \"Cesarica\" for Oliver Dragojević, which became one of Oliver's signature hit songs and one of the most popular and well known songs in Croatia.\n\nIn 2003 Zlatan Stipišić was appointed a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador. He is involved in many humanitarian concerts and organizations fighting hunger and poverty. Gibonni released his long-awaited and critically appraised album \"Unca fibre\" in May 2006 after a five-year period following his award-winning album \"Mirakul\". In 2010 he released the album \"Toleranca\", and in 2013, he released \"20th Century Man\", sung entirely in English. This album was used partially as a fundraiser for SOS children's village. In 2016, Gibonni released the Album Familija, which was made in collaboration with Oliver Dragojević, featuring 10 tracks. Soon afterward, Gibonni released his Best of Collection consisting of his most popular songs, including some from his early 90s career.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120057", "title": "Moustiers", "text": "Moustiers\n\nMoustier or Moustiers is the name or part of the name of several communes in France and Belgium:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120062", "title": "Marcantonio Negri", "text": "Marcantonio Negri\n\nMarcantonio Negri (died October 1624) was an Italian composer, singer, and musical director of the early Baroque era. He was in the musical establishment of St. Mark's Basilica in Venice at the same time as Monteverdi, and was well known as a composer at the time.\n\nHe was born in Verona, but aside from this, little is known about his life prior to his appointment as assistant \"maestro di cappella\" at St. Mark's on 22 December 1612, a position in which he supported Monteverdi as primary \"maestro di cappella\". His first publication dates from 1608, in Venice, so he had some experience as a composer and singer prior to his arrival at St. Mark's; whether he acquired that experience in Verona, Venice, or elsewhere is not known. After four years at St. Mark's, he became abbot of a monastery at Veglia (now Krk, Croatia), on an island off the coast of Dalmatia, a position which still required his part-time involvement at St. Mark's. He resigned from St. Mark's in 1619, and his position was taken by Alessandro Grandi. Negri died at Veglia.\n\nHis first book of \"affetti amorosi\" (1608) is in the most modern canzonetta style, using affective chromaticism and continuo. In 1611 he published another book of \"affetti amorosi\" which includes sonatas for two violins and continuo, as well as some sinfonias. Some of these pieces contain \"battle music\", with the violins imitating trumpet calls and military drums; both Monteverdi and Grandi imitated this style, and Monteverdi possibly learned it from Negri.\n\nNegri also published sacred music, including a book of psalm settings (1613) and a book of spiritual songs (1618), both in Venice. Stylistically they conform to the typical practice of divided choirs and groups of instruments used by the other composers at St. Mark's (see Venetian polychoral style, concertato).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120066", "title": "Southern hospitality", "text": "Southern hospitality\n\nSouthern hospitality is a phrase used in American English to describe the stereotype of residents of the Southern United States as particularly warm, sweet, and welcoming to visitors to their homes, or to the South in general. \n\nSouthern hospitality \"first existed as a narrowly defined body of social practices among the antebellum planters classes\". As such, the origin of the practice was intimately tied to slavery. One analysis notes:\n\nOver time, however, the concept \"developed into a discourse that stretches far beyond the image of the planter class\", and the principles of Southern hospitality were eventually adopted by African Americans in the South, and incorporated into materials used to advertise destinations in the South to African American tourists. The concept of Southern hospitality has also been examined as a reflection of the religious beliefs of the region; the idea that one should be good to strangers is an outgrowth of such Biblical parables as the Good Samaritan. Early travel writer Ernest Hamlin Abbott wrote in 1902, \"as religious observances are in the South as naturally included in the hospitality of the home as anything else, so, conversely, hospitality in the South is an integral part of the church services\".\n\nSome characteristics of Southern hospitality were described as early as 1835, when Jacob Abbott attributed the poor quality of taverns in the South to the lack of need for them, given the willingness of Southerners to provide for strangers. Abbott writes:\n\nAbbott further describes how the best stores of the house are at the disposal of visitors. Furthermore, says Abbott:\n\nFood figures highly in Southern hospitality, a large component of the idea being the provision of Southern cuisine to visitors. A cake or other delicacy is often brought to the door of a new neighbor as a mechanism of introduction. Many club and church functions include a meal or at least a dessert and beverage. Churches in the South frequently have large commercial style kitchens to accommodate this tradition, but many \"fellowship suppers\" are \"covered dish\": everyone attending brings a dish. However, if a newcomer arrives without a dish, he or she will be made to feel welcome and served generously. When a death or serious illness occurs, neighbors, friends, and church members generally bring food to the bereaved family for a period of time. A number of cookbooks promise recipes advancing this concept.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120068", "title": "Guarapiranga", "text": "Guarapiranga\n\nThe Reservoir of Guarapiranga (Represa de Guarapiranga) is a reservoir in the southern area of the city of São Paulo, in the State of São Paulo, Brazil.\n\nThe Reservoir of Guarapiranga was constructed in 1906 by the São Paulo Tramway, Light and Power Company, also known as \"Light\", which was the company responsible for the regions supply of electrical energy at that time. In 1928, Guarapiranga began being used as a reservoir for potable water distribution.\n\nThe reservoir is supplied by the River Guarapiranga and other smaller rivers and brooks, traversing areas of the cities of São Paulo, Itapecerica da Serra, and Embu-Guaçu. It was constructed originally to attend the necessities of the production of electrical energy in the Parnaíba Hydroelectric generating plant. It is currently utilized for the water supply for the Greater São Paulo by the Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de São Paulo (SABESP), a Brazilian state owned utility that provides water and sewage services. Guarapiranga is also utilized as a flood control mechanism and as a place of leisure. There are artificial beaches and marinas in the reservoir's peripheral areas.\n\nBetween the 1980s and the 1990s the absence of clear political laws determining use and occupation of the area contributed to the creation of clandestine and irregular neighborhoods around the reservoir. Untreated human waste and sewage contaminated rivers and brooks that fed into the reservoir. The cleaning of the brooks and rivers and in the removal of the irregular housings will require substantial funding by SABESP.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120070", "title": "Calbert Cheaney", "text": "Calbert Cheaney\n\nCalbert Nathaniel Cheaney (born July 17, 1971) is an American basketball coach and former player who is an assistant coach for the College Park Skyhawks of the NBA G League. He starred as a player for the Indiana Hoosiers from 1989–93 under coach Bob Knight. Cheaney ended his career as a three-time All-American and remains the Big Ten's all-time leading scorer with 2,613 career points. He led Indiana to a 105–27 record and the NCAA Tournament all four years, including a Final Four appearance in 1992.\n\nAt the conclusion of his collegiate basketball career Cheaney captured virtually every post-season honor available, including National Player of the Year (winning both the Wooden and Naismith award), a unanimous All-American, and Big Ten Player of the Year. Cheaney spent 13 years in the NBA playing for five different teams.\n\nBorn in Evansville, Indiana, Cheaney played high school ball at William Henry Harrison High School in Evansville and was selected to the 1989 Indiana All-Star team. Cheaney was a high school stand-out, but a season-ending injury midway through his senior year pushed him off the national radar and left him as a virtual unknown in Indiana University's #1 ranked recruiting class of 1989.\n\nCheaney played small forward for the Indiana University Hoosiers for head coach Bob Knight. He was Knight's first left-handed player. Cheaney was known as a smooth leader all four years at Indiana. During the last three of his years at Indiana, the team spent all but two of the 53 poll weeks in the top 10, and 38 of them in the top 5. The Hoosiers were 87–16 (.845) those years and a 46–8 (.852) mark in the Big Ten Conference. Of the four years Cheaney played the Hoosiers went 105-27 and captured two Big Ten crowns ('91 and '93). The 105 games won during Cheaney's four years was the most of any Hoosier to that point.\n\nCheaney began his career with a flash, scoring 20 points in the season opener of his freshman year (the only Indiana freshman to ever do so). However, the 1989–90 team ran into tougher competition in January after winning all 10 of their pre-conference games. Taken aback by the intensity of play within the Big Ten, the young Hoosier squad went 8–10 in conference play and were upset by California in their NCAA Tournament opening game. Cheaney averaged 17 points a game as a freshman.\n\n“Our freshman year was very, very subpar,” Cheaney said. “We started out excellent and when we got into the Big Ten we were in for a rude awakening. I knew once that season was over and we started working out over the summer, we were going to become a pretty good team. I knew we were going to be a team to be reckoned with the next three years.\"\n\nCheaney averaged 21.6 points per game as a sophomore, with the Hoosiers ending the 1990–91 regular season with an overall record of 29–5 and a conference record of 15–3, finishing 1st in the Big Ten Conference. As conference champions, the Hoosiers were invited to participate in the 1991 NCAA Tournament as a 2-seed, where they advanced to the Sweet Sixteen. Cheaney noted, “I had a very good sophomore year, but I played a lot of international ball. I played on the Tournament of America team and the World University team. I think I wore myself out a little bit, and when my junior year rolled around, I wasn’t up to par.”\n\nAs a junior during the 1991–92 season, Cheaney felt he struggled from being worn down by substantial play over the summer. Moreover, with the addition of other talent from players like Alan Henderson, Cheaney \"didn’t have to score as much.\" He regressed to an average of 17.6 points per game and his three-point shooting percentage dropped significantly. The Hoosiers finished the regular season with an overall record of 27–7 and a conference record of 14–4, finishing 2nd in the Big Ten Conference. The Hoosiers were invited to participate in the 1992 NCAA Tournament as a 2-seed, where they advanced to the Final Four, but fell to Duke in a foul-plagued game in Minneapolis.\n\nAs a senior during the 1992–93 season, Cheaney averaged 22.4 points per game and 6.2 rebounds per game. The Hoosiers finished the regular season with an overall record of 31–4 and a conference record of 17–1, finishing 1st in the Big Ten Conference. As the Big Ten Conference Champions, the Hoosiers were invited to participate in the 1993 NCAA Tournament as a 1-seed, where they advanced to the Elite Eight for the second year in a row, but were defeated by Kansas.\n\nOver the course of his career at Indiana, Cheaney scored 30 or more points thirteen times and averaged 19.8 points per game, with a high of 22.4 as senior. With 2,613 career points, he is the all-time leading scorer of both Indiana and the Big Ten. At the conclusion of his collegiate career, Cheaney had captured virtually every post-season honor available. He was the National Player of the Year (winning both the Wooden and Naismith award), a unanimous All-American, and Big Ten Player of the Year.\n\nCheaney was selected 6th overall by the Washington Bullets in the 1993 NBA draft. His strongest showing as pro came in 1994–1995 when he averaged a career-high 16.6 points for Washington. He spent six years playing for the Bullets/Wizards (including a playoff appearance in 1997). He would go on to play for the Boston Celtics, Denver Nuggets, and Utah Jazz, before closing his career out with three years with the Golden State Warriors, retiring after the 2005–06 season. During his thirteen-year NBA career, Cheaney played for five different teams, averaging 9.5 points and 3.2 rebounds.\n\nCheaney appeared along with many of his 1997 Bullet teammates (Juwan Howard, Ben Wallace, and Ashraf Amaya) in singer Crystal Waters' 1996 video \"Say If You Feel Alright\". He also appeared in the 1994 film Blue Chips as a player for the Indiana University Hoosiers.\n\nFollowing his retirement as a player, Cheaney spent two seasons on the staff for the Golden State Warriors. He was a special assistant in the front office in 2009–10, and in 2010–11 he was an assistant coach under fellow Indiana alumnus Keith Smart. He then returned to Indiana in 2011 and served as Director of Basketball Operations under coach Tom Crean. The following year he added the title of Director of Internal and External Player Development.\n\nOn August 21, 2013, Cheaney announced that he had accepted an assistant coach position at Saint Louis University under head coach Jim Crews, a fellow alumnus of Indiana University. During his first season with St. Louis in 2013–14 the Billikens finished with a 27–7 record and secured an Atlantic 10 Conference regular-season title and an NCAA Tournament appearance. Cheaney left the St. Louis staff in 2016 with the departure of Crews as head coach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120073", "title": "Shinano Kenshi", "text": "Shinano Kenshi\n\nIn 1985 Hanaoka Hosei Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of Shinano Kenshi, changed its name to Texel Corporation. It developed the Plextor brand in 1993.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120080", "title": "Selina Griffiths", "text": "Selina Griffiths\n\nSelina Jane Griffiths (born 1969) is an English actress mostly known for her performance as Pauline Maltby in \"Benidorm\".\n\nSelina Griffiths is the daughter of Annette Crosbie and Michael Griffiths. She trained at the Central School of Speech and Drama and has appeared in several plays. Having graduated from the Central School of Speech and Drama, she made her professional stage debut at London's Lyric Theatre in \"The Way of the World\" alongside Barbara Flynn, with whom she appeared in television's \"Cranford\".\n\nGriffiths has appeared in many television programmes, including \"Dr. Finlay\" and \"Drop the Dead Donkey\" and playing Janet in \"The Smoking Room\".\n\nIn Autumn 2007 she co-starred with Deborah Findlay in the BBC1 costume drama series \"Cranford\" playing Miss Caroline Tomkinson. In January 2011 she appeared as a frightened passenger in the BBC1 comedy series \"Come Fly With Me\", which is written by Matt Lucas and David Walliams.\n\nIn February 2011, she appeared as Pauline in \"Benidorm\", reprising the role in the 2016 & 2018 series and through March–April appeared in the Jeremy Dyson play adaption of Roald Dahl's \"Twisted Tales\".\n\nIn March 2012 she appeared as Yvonne Bradshaw in the BBC3 series \"Being Human\". Later that year she played several roles, including Beatrix Potter, in Sky's \"Psychobitches\" (part of \"Playhouse Presents\"), appearing in four episodes.\n\nAiring on 26 May 2013, Griffiths appeared in episode 2 (\"Nobody's Darling\") of \"Case Histories\".\n\nIn 2014 she appeared in the TV show \"Jonathan Creek\". In 2015 she appeared as Elspeth Rice in ITV's \"Midsomer Murders\" episode 17.4 \"A Vintage Murder\".\n\nIn February 2017 she appeared as a primary school teacher Miss Anstis in the BBC sitcom \"Not Going Out\" starring Lee Mack and Sally Bretton. She reprised the role in April 2019.\n\nIn January 2019 she appeared as Ruth Thundersby in BBC's \"Father Brown\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2120089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120089", "title": "Rydia", "text": "Rydia\n\nShe is the daughter of the Mist Dragon, who protagonist Cecil Harvey and his ally Kain Highwind killed under orders from their king. She joins Cecil after he inadvertently destroys her village, not knowing that a package he was delivering was meant to destroy it. She is initially cold to Cecil, though he apologizes and promises to protect her from harm. Rydia has received generally positive reception and is considered a fan favorite. She is considered one of the best \"Final Fantasy\" characters, and her outfit and hair design is considered iconic.\n\nRydia's design was created by \"Final Fantasy\" artist Yoshitaka Amano. Her outfit design in \"\" was changed for international releases in order to be less revealing. She is a powerful summoner. She is voiced by Noriko Shitaya in Japanese and Caroline Macey in English.\n\nRydia is one of the protagonists in \"Final Fantasy IV\". When Cecil and Kain travel through the Mist Cave to reach Mist, they kill the Mist Dragon that was summoned to protect the village. As Eidolons are directly linked to their Summoner, Cecil and Kain inadvertently kill Rydia's mother in the process. They also set the entire village on fire by inadvertently releasing a Bomb Ring. Rydia becomes enraged when she learns of their actions, using Titan to cause an earthquake that separates them, but injuring herself in the process. Cecil takes her to Kaipo, and when she regains her senses, she initially cannot forgive him, although she does agree to join him after he defends her from some Baron soldiers. Later, Rydia is swallowed by the Eidolon Leviathan and taken to the Feymarch, the Land of the Eidolons which Leviathan rules alongside his Queen, Ashura. Due to the different flow of time in the Feymarch, she physically matures during her stay despite being gone only a short time in the real world. Having mastered summoning and black magic at the expense of white magic, she saves Cecil from Golbez's Shadow Dragon in the Dwarven Castle's Crystal Room and rejoins the party for the rest of the story. At the end of the game, she returns to the Land of Eidolons.\n\nDuring \"Interlude\", Rydia is impersonated by a mysterious summoner that attacks Cecil and his friends. The real Rydia appears near the end of the game, saving their lives. At the beginning of \"The After Years\", Ashura teleports Rydia to the real world moments before the Maenad appears and turns Ashura and Leviathan into stone. After helping her old friends save the planet, Rydia decides to rebuild Mist with the cooperation of Cecil and others, and also becomes the adoptive mother of the child Maenad Cuore.\n\nRydia also appears in the rhythm game \"Theatrhythm Final Fantasy\" as a character representing \"Final Fantasy IV\".\n\nRydia has received generally positive reception and has been recognized as a fan favorite by \"GamesRadar\". Ali Rapp of \"Game Informer\" praised her design, calling it beautiful and iconic; she cited Rydia's outfit and hair as part of why she is so recognizable. Her outfit has received positive reception, though it was controversial back around release in North America. Maddy Myers for Paste Magazine was not sure whether she liked her outfit, but still found it memorable. She called her green hair beautiful. Marc Nix of IGN ranked her the 15th best \"Final Fantasy\" character. He discussed her sprite, which he felt was a particularly striking design in comparison to earlier \"Final Fantasy\" sprites, as well as how \"surprisingly tragic\" her story was for a game of its era. IGN readers ranked her the 10th best \"Final Fantasy\" character.\n\nAndy Corrigan of \"IGN\" praised a moment where she struggles with the trauma of fire due to her home being destroyed by it, and being needed to use fire magic to melt a wall of ice. He found this believable, and a moment that stuck with him. Sophia Tong of \"GamesRadar+\" regarded her as her favorite role-playing game party member due to her personality and power. Jedediah H. identified her as one of his favorite characters from his youth, holding her so highly due to her maturity in spite of her age. Chad Concelmo for Destructoid regarded Rydia's return as an adult as one of the \"best surprises\" in the game and one of his favorites in video games. He notes that it \"never really happened\" that a character ages in a game and praises the appearance of the Mist Dragon as contributing to the significance of Rydia's return. Hilary Andreff of RPGFan discussed how striking Rydia's design was as a child and how affecting it was to discover she had killed her mother.\n"}
{"id": "2120099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120099", "title": "Semily District", "text": "Semily District\n\nSemily District () is a district (\"okres\") within the Liberec Region of the Czech Republic. Its capital is the town of Semily.\n\nBělá - \nBenecko - \nBenešov u Semil - \nBozkov - \nBradlecká Lhota - \nBukovina u Čisté - \nBystrá nad Jizerou - \nChuchelna - \nČistá u Horek - \nHáje nad Jizerou - \nHarrachov - \nHolenice -\nHorka u Staré Paky - \nHorní Branná - \nHrubá Skála - \nJablonec nad Jizerou - \nJesenný - \nJestřabí v Krkonoších - \nJilemnice - \nKacanovy - \nKarlovice - \nKlokočí - \nKošťálov - \nKruh - \nKtová - \nLevínská Olešnice - \n\"Libštát\" - \nLomnice nad Popelkou - \nLoučky - \nMartinice v Krkonoších - \nMírová pod Kozákovem - \nModřišice - \nMříčná - \nNová Ves nad Popelkou - \nOhrazenice - \nOlešnice - \nPaseky nad Jizerou - \nPeřimov - \nPoniklá - \nPřepeře - \nPříkrý - \nRadostná pod Kozákovem - \nRakousy - \nRokytnice nad Jizerou - \nRoprachtice - \nRovensko pod Troskami - \nRoztoky u Jilemnice - \nRoztoky u Semil - \nSemily - \nSlaná - \nStružinec - \nStudenec - \nSvojek - \nSyřenov - \nTatobity - \nTroskovice - \nTurnov - \nVeselá - \nVíchová nad Jizerou - \nVítkovice - \nVšeň - \nVyskeř - \nVysoké nad Jizerou - \nZáhoří - \nŽernov\n\n"}
{"id": "2120112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120112", "title": "NWA Texas Heavyweight Championship", "text": "NWA Texas Heavyweight Championship\n\nThe NWA Texas Heavyweight Championship is a professional wrestling title that has existed since the 1930s. Though its exact date of creation isn't known, it is among the oldest championships used in professional wrestling today. The title has used a variety of different names over the years, which consists of initial changes to represent the various companies that have controlled the title at different times. Originally, it was simply known as the Texas Heavyweight Championship until its name was changed after the formation of the National Wrestling Alliance in 1948. For most of the title's existence, at least until the early 1990s, it was defended almost exclusively within the Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston and San Antonio areas of Texas. From the 1930s to the mid-1960s, these cities and the surrounding towns were within the territory operated by Ed McLemore, which was known simply as Southwest Sports, Inc. at the time. After McLemore's death, the territory came under the control of Fritz Von Erich and was renamed as Big Time Wrestling. However, the promotion would be renamed World Class Championship Wrestling in the early 1980s, which is the name the territory is best remembered under today. The championship remained an NWA affiliated title until February 1986.\n\nIn 1986, WCCW withdrew from the NWA and changed their name to the World Class Wrestling Association, while still promoting under the WCCW banner. The title became the WCWA Texas Heavyweight Championship at this time. In August 1989, the title became the USWA Texas Heavyweight Championship in the United States Wrestling Association when WCCW was transformed into the USWA.\n\nIt was renamed the WCWA Texas Heavyweight Championship in July 1990 after the WCWA split from the USWA, then became the USWA Texas Heavyweight Championship again from January 1991 until February 1992, when it became inactive. It then reverted to its original name when awarded to NWA Southwest, where it was used until that promotion shut down in September 2011. It then went to NWA Houston, where it was subsequently merged with the NWA Lone Star Heavyweight Championship in a title unification match when Jax Dane defeated Raymond Rowe, NWA Lone Star Champion Ryan Genesis and NWA Texas Champion Scott Summers to unify the titles on December 14, 2012 in Cypress, Texas.\nThe NWA Texas Championship Tournament was a one-night single elimination tag team tournament held in Dallas, Texas on May 2, 1967, for the vacant NWA Texas Heavyweight Championship.\n\nThe NWA Texas Championship Tournament was a one-night single elimination tournament held in San Antonio, Texas on June 23, 1984, for the vacant NWA Texas Heavyweight Championship.\n\n†Kerry Von Erich was originally in the bracket set to face Ric Flair in the final round. But his injury prevented him from competing, and thus was replaced by Gino Hernandez\n\nThe WCCW Texas Championship Tournament was a one-night single elimination tournament held in Fort Worth, Texas on January 12, 1987, for the vacant WCCW Texas Heavyweight Championship.\n\nThe USWA Texas Championship Tournament was a one-night single elimination tournament held in Dallas, Texas on January 25, 1991, to crown the first-ever USWA Texas Heavyweight Champion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120118", "title": "Jablonec nad Nisou District", "text": "Jablonec nad Nisou District\n\nJablonec nad Nisou District () is a district (\"okres\") within the Liberec Region of the Czech Republic. Its capital is the city of Jablonec nad Nisou.\n\nAlbrechtice v Jizerských horách –\nBedřichov –\nDalešice –\nDesná –\nDržkov –\nFrýdštejn –\nJablonec nad Nisou –\nJanov nad Nisou –\nJenišovice –\nJílové u Držkova –\nJiřetín pod Bukovou –\nJosefův Důl –\nKoberovy –\nKořenov –\nLíšný –\nLoužnice –\nLučany nad Nisou –\nMalá Skála –\nMaršovice –\nNová Ves nad Nisou –\nPěnčín –\nPlavy –\nPulečný –\nRadčice –\nRádlo –\nRychnov u Jablonce nad Nisou –\nSkuhrov –\nSmržovka –\nTanvald –\nVelké Hamry –\nVlastiboř –\nZásada –\nŽelezný Brod –\nZlatá Olešnice\n"}
{"id": "2120121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120121", "title": "Paula Wilcox", "text": "Paula Wilcox\n\nPaula Wilcox (born 13 December 1949) is an English actress. She is best known for roles in TV shows such as \"Girlfriends\", \"Upstart Crow\", \"Mount Pleasant\", \"Boomers\", \"Emmerdale\", \"The Smoking Room\", \"The Queen’s Nose\" and \"Man About The House\".\n\nWilcox first came to public attention whilst a member of the National Youth Theatre, which she joined aged seventeen. She appeared in \"Coronation Street\" in 1969 as Ray Langton's sister Janice. She was offered her first starring television role in \"The Lovers\", a Granada sitcom produced for the ITV network, largely written by Jack Rosenthal and co-starring Richard Beckinsale. There were two series of \"The Lovers\", plus a feature film. She appeared in an episode of \"The Benny Hill Show\" (Thames) broadcast on 23 February 1972.\n\nWilcox was cast in one of the lead roles of \"Man About the House\" (Thames, 1973–76) as Chrissy Plummer, who was regularly in a flirtatious battle of wits with her male flatmate Robin, played by Richard O'Sullivan. The series ran for six series and the main cast also featured in the spin-off feature film. Her follow-up role was as the eponymous single mother in \"Miss Jones and Son\" (1977–78).\n\nIn 1991, Wilcox returned to situation comedy as Ros West in a Yorkshire Television sitcom called \"Fiddlers Three\" opposite Peter Davison before playing the character of Ivy Sandford in the pilot of Frank Skinner's \"Blue Heaven\" on Channel 4 in 1992, the show then went on to become a series. She appeared in several series of \"The Queen's Nose\" (1995–2001), and also played small roles in the films \"The Higher Mortals\" (1993) and the Woody Allen movie \"Scoop\" (2006).\n\nOn 27 October 2006, Wilcox appeared in the \"Only Fools and Horses\" spin-off \"The Green Green Grass\" as Marlene's sister. She has also played another character in the \"Only Fools and Horses\" universe, appearing in 2 episodes of \"Rock and Chips\", playing Edward \"Grandad\" Trotter's estranged wife Violet. In 2007, Wilcox joined the cast of \"Emmerdale\" as Hilary Potts, mother of the vicar's wife, Laurel Thomas (Charlotte Bellamy).\n\nIn 2008, Wilcox portrayed Bette Davis in a theatrical play, \"Whatever Happened to the Cotton Dress Girl?\". In 2010, she portrayed a mother of a gay son in a theatrical play, \"Canary\".\n\nIn November 2010, Wilcox took the leading role as a Liverpudlian private eye in \"Following from the Front\", a BBC radio play first broadcast in November 2010 and again in January 2015 \n\nShe has played Pauline Johnson in the Sky1 sitcom series \"Mount Pleasant\" since 2011. \n\nIn addition to her other work, Wilcox has made guest appearances in programmes such as \"Footballers' Wives\", \"Holby City\" and \"Down to Earth\". She was cast as Lilian in the BBC Three sitcom \"The Smoking Room\". \n\nIn 2014, she had a starring role in the comedy series \"Boomers\" and the following year she had a role in an episode of \"Still Open All Hours\".\n\nIn 2017, Wilcox filmed series 3 of Upstart Crow - the Shakespearean sitcom starring David Mitchell and penned by Ben Elton.\n\nAlso in 2017 Wilcox filmed the last episode of the Sky 1 series Mount Pleasant after 7 years of playing Pauline Johnson.\n\nWilcox's theatre credits include Chris Hannan's play \"What Shadows\" about Enoch Powell's famous \"Rivers of Blood\" speech on immigration. This was performed at the Birmingham Rep, Edinburgh Lyceum and the Park Theatre, London in 2016 and 2017.\n\nOther theatrical work includes: Great Expectations (Vaudeville Theatre); Canary (Liverpool Everyman / Hampstead Theatre); Dreams of Violence (Soho Theatre) and \"La Cage aux Folles\" (Playhouse Theatre).\n\nWilcox has also performed radio and voiceover work and most recently read the audiobook \"Three Things About Elsi\"e written by Joanna Cannon.\n\nWilcox was married to actor Derek Seaton from 1969 until his death in 1979. She later married Nelson \"Skip\" Riddle, son of the bandleader and arranger Nelson Riddle.\n"}
{"id": "2120137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120137", "title": "Liberec District", "text": "Liberec District\n\nLiberec District () is the district (\"okres\") within the Liberec Region of Czech Republic. As its name implies, its administrative center is the city of Liberec.\n\nBílá - \nBílý Kostel nad Nisou - \nBílý Potok - \nBulovka - \nČernousy - \nČeský Dub - \nCetenov - \nChotyně - \nChrastava - \nČtveřín -\nDětřichov - \nDlouhý Most - \nDolní Řasnice - \nFrýdlant - \nHabartice - \nHejnice - \nHeřmanice - \nHlavice - \nHodkovice nad Mohelkou - \nHorní Řasnice - \nHrádek nad Nisou - \nJablonné v Podještědí -\nJanovice v Podještědí -\nJanův Důl - \nJeřmanice - \nJindřichovice pod Smrkem - \nKobyly - \nKrásný Les - \nKřižany - \nKryštofovo Údolí - \nKunratice - \nLázně Libverda - \nLažany - \nLiberec - \nMníšek - \nNová Ves - \nNové Město pod Smrkem - \nOldřichov v Hájích - \nOsečná - \nPaceřice - \nPěnčín - \nPertoltice - \nPříšovice - \nProseč pod Ještědem - \nRadimovice - \nRaspenava - \nRynoltice - \nŠimonovice - \nSoběslavice - \nStráž nad Nisou - \nSvětlá pod Ještědem - \nSvijanský Újezd - \nSvijany - \nSychrov - \nVišňová - \nVlastibořice - \nVšelibice - \nŽďárek - \n\"Zdislava\"\n"}
{"id": "2120147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120147", "title": "Dallas Independent School District", "text": "Dallas Independent School District\n\nThe Dallas Independent School District (Dallas ISD or DISD) is a school district based in Dallas, Texas (USA). It operates schools in much of Dallas County and is the second-largest school district in Texas and the seventeenth-largest in the United States. It is also known as Dallas Public Schools (DPS).\n\nAs of 2017, the school district was rated \"as having met the standard\" by the Texas Education Agency.\n\nThe Dallas public school district in its current form was first established in Dallas in 1884, although there is evidence that public schools had existed for Dallas prior to that date. Mayor W. L. Cabell ordered just one month after the June 16, 1884, district founding that \"all former Ordinances in relation to the city public school are hereby repealed,\" and the district's 1884–85 superintendent, a Mr. Boles, had enrollment figures for each year from 1880 through his own tenure; furthermore, the Dallas Directory of 1873 expressed regret that \"there are no public schools in Dallas,\" while the 1875 Directory said that \"the schools are near perfection.\" The 1884 organizational meeting coincides with changes in statewide education law establishing a system of school districts, each to be assigned its own number, with the ability to levy taxes and raise funds as well as to determine the length of school terms and other educational decisions; the state superintendent of schools, Benjamin M. Baker, also praised the new law's abandonment of tying teachers' salaries to the number of pupils attending, a practice he called \"a relic of barbarism.\"\n\nAt the time of the 1884 organization, six schools already were operating; four schools were designated for whites and two for \"colored/black\", as school segregation was the legal policy at the time. Booker T. Washington High School is one of these original schools, beginning as \"Colored School No. 2\" in 1884 and adopting its later name in 1902.\n\nDallas ISD has absorbed many smaller school districts throughout its history. Vickery Independent School District was annexed into Dallas ISD (adding Vickery Meadows) in 1948. Pleasant Grove ISD was annexed in 1954 (adding Pleasant Grove), and Pleasant Grove High School was replaced by Samuell High School in the same year. Seagoville ISD of Seagoville was annexed into Dallas ISD in 1965.\n\nOther schools and school districts annexed by Dallas ISD include:\n\nThe school system expanded from offering 11 grades to a modern 12-year program as of 1941. Initially, the change was resisted by families who felt the additional year would be too expensive, though others promoted the addition of a further year of athletics and some anticipated an ability for gifted students to finish the 12-year program in as little as 10.5 years, although that hope did not prove a reality. The period from 1946 to 1966 construction of schools, with 97 of the district's school buildings erected during this period, at a peak of 17 schools in 1956 alone.\n\nSchool desegregation was a gradual process that did not begin for nearly six years after the United States Supreme Court made its May 17, 1954, \"Brown v. Board of Education\" decision, nullifying the previous doctrine of \"separate but equal\" public facilities. The Dallas school board commissioned studies over the next several months, deciding in August 1956, that desegregation was premature and that the segregated system would stay in place for 1956–57. Texas passed legislation in 1957 requiring that districts \"not\" integrate their schools unless district residents voted to approve the change; an August 1960, election for this purpose ended with voters rejecting desegregation. Meanwhile, a lawsuit was filed by the district against the state superintendent on August 13, 1958, with the goal of a resolution of conflicts between federal and state courts on the subject of integration.\n\nIn 1960 the district initially adopted a plan to desegregate grade by grade, starting with the 1961 first-grade class, and proceed year by year until desegregation had been achieved; the plan was amended only weeks later to provide for movement of students at parent request. The year 1965 brought substantial changes to this process, as on September 1, 1965, the elementary schools were ordered desegregated, initially to be followed by the junior high schools in 1966 and the senior high schools in 1967; however, the Fifth Circuit United States Court issued an order on September 7 that led to amending the ruling so that all twelve grades must be desegregated as of September 1, 1965. A book on the history of DISD published the following year by the school district made the statement, \"Desegregation of the Dallas Schools was accomplished in the course of ten short years with a minimum of commotion and stress ... [due to] the patient and sympathetic understanding ... and the flinty determination of the School Board ... to serve the public in their lawfully constituted duty.\" In September 1967 Dallas ISD states that its schools were desegregated. During another desegregation suit in the 1970s, a judge suggested that students from different schools could interact via television instead of forcing desegregation busing in the district. The judge liked the plan, while the parties filing suit did not.\n\nAfter the forced busing desegregation, in the 1970s many White American students and families withdrew from district schools \"en masse\".\n\nIn 1996 DISD announced that it would \"en masse\" rezone many areas to different schools. DISD officials said that the rezoning, which would affect over 40 campuses, would be the largest such rezoning since at least the 1950s.\n\nIn the summer of 2005, the Texas Education Agency (TEA) ordered the Wilmer-Hutchins Independent School District closed for the 2005–2006 school year due to financial stress and reported mismanagement. After negotiations, Dallas ISD agreed to accept the students for the 2005–2006 school year. The Wilmer-Hutchins ISD district was absorbed into Dallas ISD in summer 2006.\n\nDallas ISD opened 11 new campuses in the fall of 2006. The district incorporated the WHISD territory via \"Plan K,\" adopted on November 30, 2006.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2007, several northwest Dallas area public schools under Dallas ISD jurisdiction became infamous due to the outbreak of a Dallas-area recreational drug, a version of heroin mixed with Tylenol PM, called \"cheese,\" which led to several deaths of Dallas-area youths. Dallas ISD issued drug dog searches to schools in order to combat the problem.\n\nDallas ISD was reported in April 2008 to have the 7th highest dropout rate of any urban school district in the US.\n\nIn 2009 state representative Yvonne Davis proposed a bill which would force the state to divide any school district that meets several parameters. The parameters include the district having more than 150,000 students, the district residing in a county with more than two million residents, and the resident county being adjacent to at least one other county with more than one million residents. The bill does not name any particular school district, but the parameters of the bill may only apply to Dallas ISD.\n\nCirca 2012 the district was shutting down some schools in central Dallas which had enrollment declines, while it was building new schools in outerlying areas of the district, which had population increases. That year five schools were opening, with most of them in Southeast Dallas and Seagoville. The district planned to close eleven schools in the same year; the income levels in the neighborhoods hosting the closing schools tended to be very low and student populations had consistently declined. Of the nine board members, the vote was six to two in favor of closing with one abstention.\n\nBy 2016 the district was expanding the use of two-way bilingual programs, with 24 schools of 51 two-way bilingual programs beginning that year.\n\nEffective July 1, 2018, four elementary schools originally named for confederate generals were renamed:\n\nA partial list of past DISD superintendents\n\n\nThe first superintendent of the Dallas school system was W. A. Boles, elected in August 1884.\n\nIts headquarters is 9400 N. Central Expressway in North Dallas.\n\nThe previous headquarters, 3700 Ross, is an Art Deco building that was built in the 1950s.\n\nIn April 2016, trustees approved a plan to purchase the 9400 NCX office building on Central Expressway in North Dallas. This was done to consolidate various school district offices which had been scattered around the city previously. In the process, school trustees voted in February 2017 to sell various surplus properties; among them, the district's Ross Avenue headquarters complex. Permits were filed by the buyer of the longtime headquarters building, in April 2017, to tear down the complex; this was a cause of concern for local preservationists. In December 2017 Leon Capital Group, the new owner of 3700 Ross, stated it wanted to preserve a part of the building.\n\nDallas ISD covers of land (map) and most of the city of Dallas. The district also serves Cockrell Hill, most of Seagoville and Addison, Wilmer, most of Hutchins, and portions of the following cities:\nIn addition, Dallas ISD covers unincorporated areas of Dallas County, including some other surrounding areas Ferris addresses.\n\nDallas ISD implemented mandatory school uniforms for all elementary and middle school students (through 8th grade) on most campuses starting in the 2005–2006 school year.\n\nElementary and middle school campuses which do not follow the Dallas ISD uniform policy continue to use their own mandatory uniform codes, which were adopted prior to the 2005–2006 school year.\n\nUniforms are optional at the high school level as in schools decide whether to adopt uniform policies; eight traditional high schools and three alternative high schools have adopted them.\n\nThe Texas Education Agency specified that the parents and/or guardians of students zoned to a school with uniforms may apply for a waiver to opt out of the uniform policy so their children do not have to wear the uniform; parents must specify \"bona fide\" reasons, such as religious reasons or philosophical objections.\n\nAngela Shah of \"The Dallas Morning News\" said in 2004, \"Even as many big cities move aggressively to bolster public education, City Hall's relationship with Dallas' largest school district remains informal at best.\"\n\nJose Plata, an openly gay DISD board member, and Pat Stone, the president of the Dallas Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG), advocated for adding LGBT students to the anti-discrimination ordinance. In 1996 the DISD board of education voted to add LGBT individuals to the ordinance, and by 1997 the district had created a pamphlet for LGBT students.\n\nSome high school campuses in DISD house Gay–straight alliance organizations.\n\nAthletic facilities controlled by DISD include P.C. Cobb Athletic Complex in the Fair Park Arena, Forester Athletic Complex in southeast Dallas, Franklin Stadium in North Dallas (north of NorthPark Center), Jesse Owens Memorial Complex (southeast of Interstate 20) including the John Kincaide Stadium, Alfred J. Loos Athletic Complex in Addison, Pleasant Grove Stadium in southeast Dallas, Seagoville Stadium in Seagoville, Sprague Athletic Complex in southwest Dallas, and Wilmer-Hutchins Eagle Stadium in Hutchins.\n\n some of the wealthiest, neighborhoods in the central city area are actually in the Highland Park Independent School District (HPISD), not DISD. The student body of DISD has a higher percentage of Hispanics, a slightly lower percentage of non-Hispanic Whites, and a higher percentage of low income students compared to the Houston Independent School District (HISD), which includes some of the wealthiest neighborhoods in central Houston. In 2010 DISD had a higher number of black students in its boundaries attending charter schools compared to HISD, even though HISD had more black students living in its boundaries.\n\nIn 1968 DISD had 159,527 students, with 52% of them being Anglo whites. In 1970 the district had 94,383 Anglo white students. In 1973, half of DISD's students were White. As time passed, the White population decreased due to private schools and white flight. In the fall of 1978 there were 132,061 students, with 34% of them being white. By 1979 there were 42,030 Anglo White students.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s the DISD student body was majority black. In 2000 almost 161,000 students were enrolled, with 52% being Hispanic, 38% being black, and 9% being white. That year 73% of the students were on free or reduced-price lunches, meaning they were classified as being from socioeconomically poor families. As of 2003, DISD was 58% Hispanic, 34% African American, 6% White, and 2% Asian and Native American. As of that year, 190 DISD schools were 90% or more combined black and Hispanic, 37 schools were 90% or more Hispanic, and 24 schools were 90% or more black. White flight continued into the 2000s and 2010s, as there was a 55% decrease in the white student population from 1997 to 2015. In 2008 the Anglo White student population bottomed at 7,207, and the decline stopped afterward. In 2010 157,000 students were in DISD schools, with 68% being Hispanic, 26% being black, and 5% being white. From 2000 to 2010 the number of Hispanic students had increased by 23,000, an increase by 7%; while the number of black students had declined by 19,000, a 31% decrease. That year, 87% of DISD students were on free or reduced-price lunches. Eric Nicholson of the \"Dallas Observer\" wrote that by 2016 the number of Anglo whites was \"actually increasing slightly — very slightly — over the past couple of years.\"\n\nIn 2009 the State of Texas defined \"college readiness,\" or readiness to undergo university studies, of high school graduates by scores on the ACT and SAT and in the 11th grade Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills (TAKS) tests. Holly K. Hacker of \"The Dallas Morning News\" said that DISD schools \"showed extreme highs and lows in college readiness.\" Regarding the selective DISD magnet schools, Hacker said that they \"prepare virtually all graduates for college.\" Throughout the DFW metroplex, the highest college readiness rates were found in the School of Science & Engineering and the School for the Talented & Gifted. Hacker said \"[t]hough they serve some students with lower incomes, the campuses have a huge advantage because they accept only those with high test scores.\"\n\nBy 2016 the growth in the number of low income students, previously significant, had stopped.\n\nAs of 2003, some schools in DISD still had significant numbers of White American students. Usually they were up to 15-20% of a school's given population. Many schools with significant White populations were in the East Dallas and North Dallas areas and mostly white sections of Oak Cliff, such as Kessler Park. Elementary schools that had significant White populations included Nathan Adams, Hexter, Lakewood, Mockingbird (formerly Stonewall Jackson) Elementary, Pershing, W.B. Travis Vanguard & Academy, Preston Hollow, and Harry Withers. Middle schools with significant White populations included Franklin, and Long middle schools. High schools with significant White populations included Hillcrest, W.T. White, and Woodrow Wilson. Seagoville High School and its feeder schools also had white populations. Circa 2016 the white population consistently made up 5% of the DISD student body. In 2016 Nicholson wrote that \"By the end, DISD's Anglo exodus could be rationalized as a response not to racial mixing but to concentrated poverty, flagging test scores and an inept administration perennially mired in scandal.\"\n\nFrom 2000 to 2010 the number of black students decreased by 20,000. In 2010 that was the lowest in the post-1965 history of DISD. One reason for the decline in the percentage of black students is the move of black people to suburbs; they did so due to a perception that public schools there have a higher quality than those in DISD, as well as general desires for higher quality housing and lower crime environments. Another reason was the growth in charter schools which take students who would otherwise attend DISD schools; in 2010 5,900 black students attending charter schools in the area lived in the DISD boundaries. Other reasons for the decline in the percentage of black students included a perception that DISD has moved its focus away from black students and towards Hispanic students, and the fact that many Hispanics have moved into traditionally black neighborhoods.\n\nThe district has high schools, middle schools, elementary schools, and multi-level schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120159", "title": "Nathaniel Richards (Marvel Comics)", "text": "Nathaniel Richards (Marvel Comics)\n\nNathaniel Richards is a fictional time-traveling scientist appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is the father of superhero Reed Richards, the leader of the Fantastic Four. Though there have been many versions of the character, either as the futuristic villain Kang the Conqueror or the young superhero Iron Lad, the original Nathaniel is more of an adventurer who has a genuine love for his son.\n\nNathaniel Richards first appeared in \"Fantastic Four\" #272 and was created by John Byrne.\n\nDr. Nathaniel Richards was a successful scientist who specialized in multiple fields. He was married to Evelyn and together had a son named Reed who also possessed an intellectual mind like his father. When Evelyn died, Nathaniel continued to raise his son right by supporting his scientific endeavors. Later, Nathaniel is approached by the Brotherhood of the Shield and joins their group. Along with Howard Stark, the two meet a super powered individual named Leonid and help him resolve a dispute between the time traveling Leonardo da Vinci and Isaac Newton who had split the organization in two. These events somehow resulted in Nathaniel gaining the ability to travel through time.\n\nNathaniel found himself in the far future along with several other alternate versions of himself. The villain Immortus had gathered them together and forced them to kill each other off. Nathaniel managed to flee and in the process left his family for good, but not before setting his son Reed for life.\n\nNathaniel ended up in another dimension where the Earth had become a desolate wasteland when the moon was destroyed. He married a woman named Cassandra who bore two children for him, one of which grew up to be Huntara. Cassandra turned out to be a power-mad individual using his technology to rule the remaining humans. The Fantastic Four and Wyatt Wingfoot arrived in this dimension where they defeated Cassandra and freed Nathaniel. After father and son had a heartfelt reunion, Nathaniel stayed behind to help rebuild.\n\nHowever, Nathaniel arrived in the present to kidnap Franklin Richards. Nathaniel aged Franklin to a teenager in an effort to refrain Franklin from having a child with Rachel Summers. Their child would eventually grow up to become the villain Hyperstorm. Nathaniel would help Franklin and the Fantastic Four battle Aron the Rogue Watcher by rescuing Uatu the Watcher.\n\nNathaniel later trained Susan Storm to better master her powers. \n\nNathaniel returned to help Reed jumpstart the Future Foundation, using the technology he gathered over the years. He then helped them battle the Kree Army and the Mad Celestials.\n\nWhile Nathaniel Richards has no superhuman powers, he does have scientific genius intellect and is also a skilled inventor in advanced machinery and devices.\n\nNathaniel Richards invented a device called the Time Platform and has grand experience as a time traveler. He also created his own armor which gives him super strength and durability. Nathaniel Richards also carries teleportation devices and energy weapons for defense.\n\n\nA version of Nathaniel Richards exist that was pulled into the far future with the other Nathaniels by Immortus. This version of Nathaniel, called the Beast, was a homicidal maniac who took the opportunity to slaughter all of his alternate counterparts. The Nathaniel of Earth 616 teams up with young college aged Reed Richards, Ben Grimm and Victor von Doom in order to defeat him.\n\nIn the Ultimate Marvel Universe, Reed's father is renamed Gary Richards and he does not have a scientific background. He also seems to despise his son's scientific mind, preferring his friend Ben Grimm's athletic abilities. When the Baxter Building think tank accepted Reed, Gary was glad that he was gone. When Diablo kidnapped Reed's younger sister Enid, Gary went to Reed for help though he still resented him. When Reed quit the Fantastic Four, Gary was there to greet him, not acting surprised. Gary, along with his wife Mary and two daughters, were killed in an explosion directed at the Richards household.\n\nReed's father, simply credited as Mr. Richards, appears in 2015's \"Fantastic Four\" played by Tim Heidecker. He is apparently not Reed's biological father and spends most of his time watching football on television. Several of Mr. Richards' scenes were cut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120176", "title": "Česká Lípa District", "text": "Česká Lípa District\n\nČeská Lípa District () is a district (\"okres\") within the Liberec Region of the Czech Republic. Its district seat is Česká Lípa.\n\nČeská Lípa - \nBezděz - \nBlatce - \nBlíževedly - \nBohatice - \nBrniště - \nChlum - \nChotovice - \nCvikov - \nDoksy - \nDubá - \nDubnice - \nHamr na Jezeře - \n\"Holany\" - \nHorní Libchava - \nHorní Police - \nJestřebí - \nKamenický Šenov - \nKozly - \nKravaře - \nKrompach - \nKunratice u Cvikova - \nKvítkov - \nLuka - \nMařenice - \nMimoň - \nNoviny pod Ralskem - \nNový Bor - \nNový Oldřichov - \nOkna - \nOkrouhlá - \nPertoltice pod Ralskem - \nPolevsko - \nProvodín - \nPrysk - \nRadvanec - \nRalsko - \nSkalice u České Lípy - \nSkalka u Doks - \nSloup v Čechách - \nSlunečná - \nSosnová - \nStráž pod Ralskem - \nStružnice - \nStvolínky - \nSvojkov - \nSvor - \nTachov - \nTuhaň - \nVelenice - \nVelký Valtinov - \nVolfartice - \nVrchovany - \nZahrádky - \nZákupy - \nŽandov - \nŽdírec\n"}
{"id": "2120193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120193", "title": "The Sims: Hot Date", "text": "The Sims: Hot Date\n\nThe Sims: Hot Date is the third expansion pack released for the strategic life-simulation computer game \"The Sims\" developed by Maxis and published by Electronic Arts. It was released on November 14, 2001 with overall positive reviews thanks to the addition of a downtown area outside the neighborhood, which became the set up for upcoming expansions packs in which new areas were added; it also served as the inspiration for later games including \"\" and \"\".\n\nIn addition to many new items for households, the new downtown area is \"Hot Date\"'s most significant new addition to The Sims.\n\nSims can now use their telephones to call a taxi that takes them to downtown SimCity, which is composed of lots such as shopping centers, recreation areas, restaurants, or nightclubs. While a Sim is on a date, the Sim can be controlled, but not actually give orders to its date.\n\nDowntown features lots of brand-new, downtown-only items, like food vendors, clothing stores, picnic areas, and duck ponds that Sim couples can use to keep themselves busy, and a few new items, like the restaurant booth seat, that'll let them get to know each other better.\n\nAll the time spent downtown takes place independent of time at home; in other words, Sims will get hungry, tired, and bored as usual during the time they spend downtown, but once they get home, the clock will actually reset to the time when they left.\n\nThis makes having both a relationship and a job (which still typically takes about six hours out of a sim's day) not only possible, but a lot easier than before.\n\nThe relationship bar with acquaintances the sims know, now includes a daily bar at the top showing short-term trends with decay quickly and a long term bar showing long-term trends.\n\nOverall, the game was judged to be the most substantial of \"The Sims\" expansion packs at its point of release, and critics praised the new downtown area.\n\n\"Hot Date\" was received 86% and an 85% averages from aggregate sites GameRankings and Metacritic respectively. \"The Armchair Empire\" gave the game 9.2/10 points saying \"Where \"Living Large\" and \"House Party\" were basically enhancements to the original, \"Hot Date\" completely revamps the gameplay by making it possible to focus more on social and romantic relationships and for the first time get away from the Sims house.\n\"Hot Date\" was a nominee for \"Computer Gaming World\"s 2001 \"Best Game Expansion\" award, which ultimately went to \"\". The editors wrote, \"\"Hot Date\" added the one thing \"The Sims\" players clamored for, which was the ability to actually leave the house.\" Similarly, the editors of \"Computer Games Magazine\" nominated \"Hot Date\" as the best add-on of 2001, but ultimately gave the award to \"\".\n\nThe Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences nominated \"Hot Date\" for its 2001 \"Innovation in Computer Gaming\" award, which ultimately went to \"Black & White\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2120201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120201", "title": "The Dream of a Summer Day", "text": "The Dream of a Summer Day\n\n\"The Dream of a Summer Day\" is an essay by Lafcadio Hearn that reminisced on his childhood, and which also incorporated a retelling of the Japanese folktale of Urashima Tarō. It was the first piece in the collection \"Out of the East\" (1895).\n\n\"The Dream of a Summer Day\" was first printed in the 28 July 1894 issue of \"The Japan Weekly Mail\", and republished in the collection \"Out of the East\" (1895).\n\nCommentators have noted a parallel between the underlying Japanese fairy tale of Urashima Tarō and the Irish legend around Oisín and the fairy princess of the sea, and Hearn might have recalled this legend in writing the piece, even though he does not explicitly state this.\n\nHearn's biographer Paul Murray has identified it as an \"enchanted memory\" of his beloved aunt, Catherine Frances Elwood, the elder sister of his Irish father, even though other commentators have assumed it was about his parting with his Greek mother, née Rosa Antonia Cassimati.\n\nAlthough most commentators stress Hearn's identification with the Urashima figure, Hearn may have also empathized with the ancient poet of the \"Man'yōshū\" who recounted the even older legend of Urashima. For Hearn's essay begins in the same way: he starts by describing the scenery of Misumi, Kumamoto where he was then staying, and drifts into the tale of Urashima; likewise, the ancient poet opens by describing the scenery of Suminoe (Suminoe-ku, Osaka), then launches into his musings about the Urashima legend. Hearn's Misumi was not anywhere near the spot of the legend, however, he happened to be staying at an inn named \"Urashima-ya\". The identity of the ancient poet was unknown to Hearn, but scholars have determined the author of this poem have been Takahashi no Mushimaro.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120202", "title": "Tuomari Nurmio", "text": "Tuomari Nurmio\n\nJudge Bone, Tuomari Nurmio, is the artist name of Hannu Juhani Nurmio (b. 1950 in Helsinki), a Finnish rock singer and songwriter.\n\nSince his debut album, Nurmio has been regarded one of the most original Finnish singer-songwriters. His lyrics are filled with peculiar and arresting metaphors and expressions, some of which have made their way into the vernacular Finnish language. Especially the first four albums are now seen as classic works.\n\nMusically the first albums draw on the traditions of American country, blues and roots music, combining them with new wave quirkiness and energy. The lyrics have romantic, humorous undertones, with occasional glimpses of the dark side of urban life. In the 1990s Nurmio's sound has moved towards a scratchy, rugged sound somewhat reminiscent of Tom Waits. In the 2000s he has often performed in a duo with a guitar and Markku Hillilä playing drums. One of his recent collaboration is that with the band Alamaailman Vasarat.\n\nIn 2011 Nurmio appeared as a guest singer on Finnish metal band Korpiklaani's album \"Ukon Wacka\".\n\n\"Tuomari\" means a judge in Finnish. Nurmio adopted this nickname, since he has a master's degree in law and is therefore formally eligible to hold that position.\n\nNurmio started his studies at the University of Helsinki in 1971 studying general history, but soon switched to law. Before his musical career Nurmio worked as a reporter, first in the \"Soihdunkantaja\" magazine and later as editor of the \"Uusi Laulu\" magazine.\n\nIn the early 1980s he had already made a \"strong decision\" to quit his studies, but did not do so, because he thought that \"all the work would be in vain\". After his musical breakthrough he continued studying. His thesis was called \"Prohibition of torture in international law\". He graduated as a Bachelor of Law in 1983. Contrary to popular belief that he has never actually worked in law, he has done so for a few days. He defended an insurance claim for a widow and won the case. \"You can say I have won one hundred percent of my cases\", said Nurmio. He was also offered work as Matti Wuori's assistant but declined the job.\n\nNurmio started his musical career in the English language with American roots music, mostly country, folk and blues, in Dusty Ramblers and later on, during his solo career he has occasionally taken on an alter ego to more or less to go back to his roots in English. First it was Judge Bean, Jr, loosely inspired by a shady judge character in an old western movie, but it has since evolved into Judge Bone, by which name he has in recent years made two albums: Judge Bone & Doc Hill: Big Bear's Gate (a duo recording with his long time drummer Markku Hillilä on \"Bone Voyage\", 2008) and in 2015 \"Tales of Judge Bone\", vol 1 (Sony Music), which actually was credited to Tuomari Nurmio & Hoedown.\n\nThe latter is a long time Finnish roots music band (Esa Kaartamo: voc, guitars; Mika Kuokkanen: voc, guitars; Ninni Poijärvi: violin, voc; Jarmo Nikku: guitars. mandolin, banjo; Olli Haavisto: steel-guitar, dobro, weissenborn; Masa Maijanen: bass; Topi Kurki: drums) that likes to feature outside singers and players to play the guest's music or common favourites.\n\nTales of JB is composed of newly and often quite radically arranged old Nurmio songs plus an old Scottish folk song \"Bonnie George Campbell\". The overall mood might be described as old time Americana.\n\nJudge Bone & Hoedown were expected to release volume 2 in 2016.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120204", "title": "Thuvayal Thavam", "text": "Thuvayal Thavam\n\nThuvayal Thavam, an act of ritual washing of one's physique and clothes along with practice of self-abnegation and self-restraint, was a practice in the religion Ayyavazhi, following the rules and regulations of Thuvayal Thavasu, held during the mid-nineteenth century in Vakaippathi according to Akilathirattu Ammanai the source of Ayyavazhi mythology.\n"}
{"id": "2120213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120213", "title": "Incredible Bongo Band", "text": "Incredible Bongo Band\n\nThe Incredible Bongo Band, also known as Michael Viner's Incredible Bongo Band, was a project started in 1972 by Michael Viner, a record artist manager and executive at MGM Records. Viner was called on to supplement the soundtrack to the B-film \"The Thing With Two Heads\". The band's output consisted of upbeat, funky, instrumental music. Many tracks were covers of popular songs of the day characterized by the prominence of bongo drums, conga drums, rock drums and brass.\n\n\"Bongo Rock\" was featured in Robert Dimery's book \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\".\n\nThe band released two albums, 1973's \"Bongo Rock\", and 1974's \"Return of the Incredible Bongo Band\". The instrumental \"Bongo Rock\", co-written by Art Laboe and Preston Epps and released by Epps as a Top 40 hit in 1959, was covered by the Incredible Bongo Band (shown as \"Bongo Rock '73\" on the album), and became a minor US hit for them in 1973, and a substantial hit in Canada (#20).\n\nMichael Viner would make use of MGM recording facilities in down-time, recruiting whichever studio musicians were on-hand. This apparently included many well-known blow-ins, all uncredited. Important contributions were made by Jim Gordon on drums and King Errisson on bongos. Ringo Starr is rumored to have played on some tracks, specifically \"Kiburi\". The \"down-time\" sessions carried on for some time, until upper management finally quelled the vanity project.\n\nOther musicians involved in the sessions, per the movie \"Sample This\", include: \n\nMusicians mentioned elsewhere include:\n\n\nThis was never an actual band. Once the product had been finally released, a fake band was assembled and photographed. Those photos were seen on some album artwork, and in publicity.\n\nThe first Incredible Bongo Band album included a cover of \"Apache\", an instrumental tune written by Jerry Lordan and originally made popular in the UK by The Shadows, and in the United States and Canada by Jørgen Ingmann. They recorded the song at Can-Base Studios in Vancouver to take advantage of Canadian content laws, which had helped promote their previous hit, \"Bongo Rock.\" The group's version of \"Apache\" (produced by Perry Botkin Jr.) was not a hit upon release, and languished in relative obscurity until the late 1970s, when it was adopted by early hip-hop artists, including pioneering deejay Kool Herc, for the uncommonly long percussion break in the middle of the song. Subsequently, many of the Incredible Bongo Band's other releases were sampled by hip-hop producers, and the \"Apache\" break also remains a staple of many producers in drum and bass. The song received popular attention again in 2001 when it was featured in an ad for an Acura SUV. In 2008, music critic Will Hermes did an article on \"Apache\" and the Incredible Bongo Band for the \"New York Times\" and had an entire documentary devoted to it called \"Sample this\".\n\nAs well, the band's cover of \"Let There Be Drums,\" which was made famous by Sandy Nelson and also performed by the Ventures, was used as the theme song for the long-running television show \"Atlantic Grand Prix Wrestling\" during the 1980s. It made #66 in Canada in December 1973. \n\n\"Last Bongo in Belgium\" has been sampled in the songs \"Looking Down the Barrel of a Gun\" performed by the Beastie Boys, \"Angel\" performed by Massive Attack and \"Song of Life\" performed by Leftfield.\n\n\"Let There Be Drums\" was used in Ken Burns' \"Baseball: The 10th Inning\", the follow-up to Burns' '94 PBS documentary.\n\n\"In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida\" was used as the main loop in two different songs by Nas: \"Thief's Theme\" and \"Hip Hop Is Dead\".\n\nThe 2013 documentary \"Sample This\", directed by Dan Forrer and narrated by Gene Simmons, recounts the story of the Incredible Bongo Band and its recording of \"Apache\".\n\n\"Bongolia\" was used in Edgar Wright's 2017 film \"Baby Driver\".\n\nA cover group was formed by musician Shawn Lee, with the parallel name \"Shawn Lee's Incredible Tabla Band\". They released a cover album with Ubiquity Records in 2011. The album was entitled \"Tabla Rock\", based on the album \"Bongo Rock\". On \"Tabla Rock\", Lee covered the entire Bongo Band debut album, as well as two tracks from their second album. Lee's album covers the music on tabla instead of bongo, presenting it in an Indian-funk style.\n\nReleased 1973.\n\nReleased 1974.\n\nA1. \"Apache\"\nA2. \"Let There Be Drums\"\nA3. \"Bongolia\"\nA4. \"Wipe Out\"\nB1. \"Dueling Bongos\"\nB2. \"In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida\"\nB3. \"Raunchy '73\"\nC1. \"Last Bongo in Belgium\"\nC2. \"Bongo Rock '73\"\nC3. \"Hang Down Your Head Tom Dooley, Your Tie's Caught in Your Zipper\"\nC4. \"Sharp Nine\"\nD1. \"Kiburi\"\nD2. \"Sing, Sing, Sing\"\nD3. \"(I Can't Get No) Satisfaction\"\nD4. \"Ohkey Dokey\"\nD5. \"When the Bed Breaks Down, I'll Meet You in the Spring\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120224", "title": "Alta Bates", "text": "Alta Bates\n\nAlta Alice Miner Bates (December 11, 1879 – November 30, 1955) was an American nurse anesthetist and the founder of the hospital now known as Alta Bates Summit Medical Center. She was the first registered nurse in Humboldt County, California, and later the first nurse anesthetist in the San Francisco Bay Area. Bates managed Alta Bates Hospital, serving as hospital director from 1905 to 1949.\n\nBates was born in 1879 in Lapeer, Michigan. She and her family later moved to Northern California.\n\nAt age 23, Bates was the first nurse to graduate from the Eureka Training School for Nurses. She completed her training in 1903 at Sequoia Hospital, also in Eureka, California.\n\nIn 1904, Bates cared for women and their newborn babies in her parents' home on Walnut Street in Berkeley, California. At the time, there was no local hospital.\n\nThe following year, Bates founded an eight-bed sanitarium for women and children at 2314 Dwight Way. Established with about $100, the Bates Sanitarium also served as a nursing school. Its first class of nursing students graduated in 1906.\n\nImpressed by her work and vision, local physicians and community leaders helped Bates expand the building, securing funding to purchase two blocks on Webster Street. The new three-story institution opened in 1908. In 1928, the building was expanded into a six-story building at Regent and Webster streets. The 112-bed hospital was dedicated and renamed Alta Bates Hospital. In 1946, the hospital was renamed Alta Bates Community Hospital and established as a non-profit with a board of directors.\n\nIn addition to serving as director of the hospital and nursing school, Bates served as chief anesthetist of the hospital. Bates was a prominent early anesthetist in California, administering over 14,000 anesthetics.\n\nAfter training over 330 nurses, Bates's nursing school closed in 1934.\n\nDue to health problems, Bates retired from her role as the director of the hospital in 1949.\n\nBates lived with her mother, Ursula; her brother, Louis; and her adopted children, Charles and Peggy.\n\nAfter her retirement, Bates was cared for in a nursing home on Webster Street in Berkeley, where she was nursed by former students. She died in 1955 at age 75.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120234", "title": "Bayda, Libya", "text": "Bayda, Libya\n\nBayda, or Elbeida ( or ; ) (also spelt \"az-Zāwiyat al-Bayḍāʾ\", \"Zāwiyat al-Bayḑā’\", \"Beida\" and \"El Beida\"; known as \"Beda Littoria\" under Italian colonial rule), is a commercial and industrial city in eastern Libya. It is located in northern Cyrenaica. With a population of 250,000 people, Bayda is the 4th-largest city in Libya (after Tripoli, Benghazi and Misrata). It is the capital city of the Jabal al Akhdar district.\n\nBayda's history stretches back to classical antiquity, when it was known as Balagrae. The 2000-year-old ruins of the ancient Greek colony of Cyrene are located nearby in Shahat.\n\nOne of the greatest attractions in the city is the tomb of a famous companion (sahabah) of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, Ruwaifi bin Thabit al-Ansari. For that reason, the city was known as Sidi Rafaa after him. After the arrival of Muhammad ibn Ali as-Senussi in the area in the 19th century, and the construction of a zāwiyah, the city was renamed \"az-Zāwiyat al-Bayḍāʾ\".\n\nThe modern city was built in the 1950s. It was originally intended to be the new capital of Libya and most of the necessary government buildings were constructed there. Eventually, the plan to move the capital from Tripoli to Bayḍāʾ was dropped. Bayda is the administrative seat for Jabal al-Akhdar.\n\n\"Bayḍāʾ\" means \"white\" in Arabic. The naming of the city is connected with the Senussi movement, which had dedicated zāwiyahs in the town to educate local people in fiqh, Quranic memorisation to the young, as well as local and tribal conflict resolution, as was customary at the time. The town became known as \"az-Zāwiyat al-Bayḍāʾ\" (\"the White Monastery\") because of the white painted zāwiyah, which lies on top of a high hill and was clearly visible from a distance. Within time, the word \"zāwiyah\" was dropped and the city became known simply as al-Bayḍāʾ.\nWhen the settlement was first founded by the Greeks, it was known as Balagrae. During Fascist Italian rule, the city was known as \"Beda Littoria\". During monarchy, the zāwiyah at Bayḍāʾ was considered a focal point for the Senussi movement, and in addition to the zāwiyah, the city was also the political capital and seat of government of the Kingdom of Libya until the 1969 Libyan coup d'état. The zāwiyah still exists, but it is in a neglected state and sits near Omar Al-Mukhtar University at the western entrance to the city.\n\nThe city is famous for the valleys and forests nearby, which are not found in the other cities of the 'Green Mountains'—Akhdar Mountains. It is named the \"Green Mountains\" because they are covered by dense forests and woodlands, of which the best known are the Hamri, Alpellnj, and Belaid forests. The highest point in the Akhdar Mountains is around , located in the Hamri area.\n\nThe Akhdar mountain range lies within the Mediterranean dry woodlands and steppe ecoregion. The region has many native plants closely related to those found in similar Greek, Italian, and Spanish coastal mountains and forests. There are about 1,800 species of Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub trees, plants, and flowers. The forests are characterized by many species of oak, juniper, pine, carob, cypress, hawthorn, Luffa aegyptiaca, and olives. There is a network of natural springs in most parts of the mountains, which makes them one of the most fertile areas of coastal Maghreb. The forested areas and springs provide habitat supportive of a diversity of birds and wildlife.\n\nThe Akhdar Mountains are part of the larger Jabal al Akhdar Plateau, an area of , with a length of from the Albakur in the west to the Valley of Bef to the east of Derna, and a width of . Beaches stretch along the chain for about , in a diverse terrain with many coastal bays and inlets. Bayda is famous for the neighboring locale of Susa, a seaside resort on the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nCultivated plants include many fruit trees, including apples, grapes, nuts, and other fruits estimated at about four million trees, as well as many medicinal and herbal plants, such as thyme, wandering herb \"Alkhalap\", and rosemary. In the past the mountains probably also had the \"Silphium\" plant, which was treasured in antiquity but is now believed to be extinct. Honey is also found in this region, due to the abundance of herbs. Bozharh is a center for the production of honey, for which Jabal al Akhdar is famous. The finest honey comes from bees which feed on the thyme and lotus plants. Honey is also extracted from the chammari or strawberry plant, \"Arbutus unedo\", which blooms in the months of December and January. Honey-murr from the cove region has proved to be useful for the treatment of liver diseases, such as diabetes.\n\nThe city of Bayda has a mild Mediterranean climate (\"Csb\", according to the Köppen climate classification) with an average annual precipitation of . It is famous for recurring snow falls and heavy rains, where the temperature rises in the summer time to , but in the winter snow and freezing temperatures can occur. The city is in a Mediterranean-Berber/Arab area about south of Crete, and is referred to as the City of Snow, which distinguishes it from the rest of the cities of Libya. The altitude added to the northern location sustains the nival precipitation (even if hardly accumulates), different from other near coastal areas. The region of Jabal al-Akhda is characterized by a moderate climate, being cooler in the winter with an average annual rainfall of about . \n\nBayda is one of the major cities in eastern Libya, and one of its major economic centers. It is also the industrial and commercial center in Libya. The major manufactured goods include food products, fertilizers and agricultural products, food processing, and imported goods, and produce from villages near the city in the Akhdar region, including cereals, dates, olives, wool, and meat. Bayda also has one of the most important markets of vegetables and fruits in Libya, because of the naturally fertile lands.\n\nFinancing is also important, and the city's National Commercial Bank is the second largest bank in Libya. It also has a number of other large banks, including the Office of the Central Bank of Libya in the city center. There is also the Agricultural Research Centre and the main animal and large national firms, such as Brega Oil Marketing Company and Gulf Oil, are important to the city's economy. Coupled with an increase in consumer prices, is an increase in the importance of the retail sector in the economy of the city. In recent years, international companies such as United Colors of Benetton, H & M, and Nike, have opened in Bayda.\n\nTourism as an industry is still in the very early stages in Libya. Bayda is an important tourist city in Libya, a base to explore the nearby tourist areas such as the Ancient Greece ruins of Cyrene and Apollonia, and Libyan Desert trips south into Kufra. The village Balagrae contains several large hotels, due to the tourist population.\n\nAs with other cities in Libya, there is a reasonable amount of ethnic diversity in Bayda. The people of eastern Libya, Bayda included, have in recent centuries been of predominantly Berber/arab mix descent. The earliest inhabitants were Berber peoples, and from the 7th century BCE until the 7th century CE, the main ethnic group was Greek. In recent times, there has been an influx of African immigrants into Bayda. The city also hosts many Egyptian immigrants. A small Greek community is also present. The Greek island of Crete is a short distance from Bayda, and many modern families in the city bear Cretan surnames.\n\nThe majority of Libyans in Bayda are of Berber, Arab and Greek descendants century, historically controlled a section of Libya. Bayda and its surrounding areas were controlled by the Barasa clan. In modern times, a large number of Libyans from different parts of the country have moved into the city.\n\nEducation in Bayda, as is the case throughout Libya, is compulsory and free. Compulsory education continues up until ninth grade. There are many public primary and secondary schools throughout the city, as well as some private and international school and others. Omar Al-Mukhtar University education is also free for all Libyan citizens in Bayda. It holds the country's second largest university, the former Al-Jami'a al-Libiya.\n\nOmar Al-Mukhtar University is the second university established in the country, and the first Islamic university, but after the Revolution of 1960, it was changed to the University of Agriculture, and then to a regular university. It now includes 14 colleges in several cities, such as Tobruq and Derna, Libya.\n\nThe predominant religion in Bayda is Islam. Almost all of the city's inhabitants are Sunni Muslims. During Islamic holidays such as Ramadan, most abstain from food; restaurants are usually empty during the day, with the exception of some expatriates and tourists. Alcohol is banned by law in Bayda and throughout Libya in accordance with Islamic principles. The conservative Islamic nature of Bayda creates a strong sense of family life in the city: almost all teenagers and young adults live at home until they marry. Many in Bayda adhere to the traditional Maliki school of religious law. In recent years however, some people are beginning to practice schools of thought popular in Saudi Arabia such as Salafism, with an increase in the number of literalist-inclined Islamic television channels. It is not uncommon, therefore, to see women wearing black niqabs and men with full beards.\n\nThere are many mosques throughout the city; the oldest and best known is the Mosque Ruwayfi bin Thabit Al-Ansari; the oldest mosques are located in and around the medina. There is also a small foreign Christian community in the city: the Franciscan-run Maria Immacolata Parish Church serves Bayda's Catholic community of roughly 4000, as well as a Protestant church belonging to the Church of Christ.\n\nBayda has some of the best sports facilities in the country. The city has various sporting centres of different standards, such as football stadiums, as well as several other public and private facilities.\nFootball is the most popular sport in Bayda, and one of the country's most successful football clubs, Alakhdhar, is based in the city.\n\nThe largest sporting centre in Bayda is the Medina al-Riyadhia (Sports City). The complex is situated just north of the city centre, and houses the Al Bayda Stadium and athletics stadium, and the Slayman al Tharrat basketball stadium. Several matches of the 2009 FIBA Africa Championship were hosted at the arena.\n\nJudo and taekwondo are popular men's sports in Bayda. In recent times, rugby sevens has seen great success, with three clubs to its name. Gyms have also become more popular in the city in recent years, because of a greater concern for healthy living amongst Libyans.\n\nBayda is on the historic Libyan Coastal Highway. The local road network is generally well designed. An efficient system of highways, flyovers, ringroads and underpasses serve the city, and allow for the transport of goods and vehicles. The roads are not always well-maintained however, and often have incorrect, poorly visible or no road markings, as well as potholes in some roads and inner city streets. In recent years, a rapid increase in car ownership has meant that traffic jams, lack of parking spaces and overcrowding are also common, especially on smaller streets. Road accidents are also on the rise because of the increase in vehicles and the subsequent lax attention given by authorities to dangerous driving.\n\nThere is no systematic public transport system in Bayda, despite the city's size and significance. A popular system of microbuses has developed in recent years and covers many areas of the city, they run on fixed routes and passengers embark and disembark anywhere on the route. There are also international services to Cairo and Alexandria.\n\n, earthworks are underway in the city for a rail network which will traverse northern Libya. Russian Railways is responsible for the three-year contract. In the future, a rail link may be built to both Tunisia and Egypt, forming a North African coastal rail network.\n\nThe Al Abraq International Airport serves national and international flights.\n\nBayda is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "2120242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120242", "title": "Ponderosa and Bonanza Steakhouses", "text": "Ponderosa and Bonanza Steakhouses\n\nPonderosa Steakhouse and Bonanza Steakhouse are a chain of buffet/steakhouse restaurants that are a part of Homestyle Dining LLC based in Plano, Texas. Its menu includes steaks, seafood, and chicken entrées, all of which come with their buffet for a nominal charge. A lunch menu is also served.\n\nUnlike other chains with two names, such as Checkers and Rally's, which uses only one of the names in a given region, restaurants in a given region could be named either Bonanza or Ponderosa. This is because Bonanza and Ponderosa were separate companies, which were later merged under the Metromedia Restaurant Group.\n\nThe names of the restaurants were derived from the classic TV series \"Bonanza\", which was set at a place called Ponderosa Ranch.\n\nIn 1963, Dan Blocker, who played Eric \"Hoss\" Cartwright on \"Bonanza\", started the Bonanza Steakhouse chain. The first Bonanza opened in Westport, Connecticut. Sam Wyly and his brother Charles Wyly bought the small Bonanza restaurant chain three years later. The company grew to approximately 600 restaurants by 1989, when the Wylys sold it to Metromedia.\n\nIn 1965, Dan Lasater, Norm Wiese and Charles Kleptz founded Ponderosa in Kokomo, Indiana, moving the headquarters to Dayton, Ohio, in 1971.\n\nPonderosa began operating in Canada by 1971 and remained there until 1986, when its focus moved to post-recession US. After closing most Canadian Ponderosa restaurants, the company returned to generating US restaurant franchises in 1986, reversing a previous freeze on new US franchises in the move to Canada. At that time, 36 Canadian Ponderosa locations were acquired by General Mills Restaurant Group which converted them to Red Lobster restaurants. In the meantime, Bonanza maintained a presence in Canada.\n\nIn 1988, Ponderosa was sold to Metromedia.\n\nIn 1997, Ponderosa and Bonanza united under the Metromedia Family Steakhouses (MFS) organization to be marketed under the Ponderosa or Bonanza brands. MFS was one of founder John Kluge’s companies using the Metromedia name.\n\nThe chain's parent company, Metromedia Steakhouses Company, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2008, although it planned to reorganize around franchise operations and a profitable core of company-operated restaurants.\n\nThe chain engaged Trinity Capital LLC as its financial advisor in 2016 and was sold in late 2017 to FAT Brands, the owner of Fatburger, Buffalo's Cafe, Hurricane Grill & Wings, Hurricane BTW that have a total of approximately 300 locations open and 300 under development in 32 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120253", "title": "CloneDVD", "text": "CloneDVD\n\nCloneDVD is a proprietary DVD cloning software, developed by Elaborate Bytes, that can be used to make backup copies of any DVD movie not copy-protected. The program is able to transcode a dual layer DVD movie to fit it onto a DVD-R, DVD+R or DVD+R DL (Double Layer) disc. Users also have the choice to strip audio streams, subtitles and chapters. This is called customize. For example, users can edit and delete certain parts of a DVD that they don't want burned, such as the main menu, bonus features, commentary, or certain scenes from the actual DVD. By moving a quality bar (or by selecting a standard optical disc format) the user can make the DVD fit its target medium.\n\nAnother feature of this software is its ability to save the contents of the disc as an ISO image, or as individual DVD files (i.e. in a VIDEO_TS directory). Conversely, CloneDVD can write a DVD from an ISO image and from a directory of individual DVD files. Consequently, CloneDVD can process a folder of DVD files (i.e. on another storage medium) and convert it into an ISO image. It cannot, however, convert an ISO image directly into a directory of DVD files, but this is possible to do by first mounting the image into a virtual drive using a disk image emulator, such as Virtual CloneDrive. CloneDVD supports DVD recording speeds of up to 18x.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120259", "title": "St Peter's College, Adelaide", "text": "St Peter's College, Adelaide\n\nSt Peter's College (officially The Anglican Church of Australia Collegiate School of Saint Peter, but commonly known as Saints) is an independent Anglican primary and secondary day and boarding school for boys located Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. Founded in 1847 by members of the Anglican Church of Australia, the school is noted for its history and famous alumni, including three Nobel laureates, forty-two Rhodes scholars , ten South Australian Premiers and the 2019 Australian of the Year.\n\nThree campuses are located on the Hackney Road site near the Adelaide Parklands in Hackney. The Senior School (years 9-12) and Middle School (years 7-8) comprises the bulk of the grounds and most of the historic buildings. To the south of the site are the Preparatory School (years 3-6) and Palm House (reception-year 2). The College also owns an outdoor education campus in Finniss, near Lake Alexandrina. The School is a member of the G20 Schools group.\n\nSt Peter's College is a day and boarding school and offers two matriculation streams in secondary education: the South Australian Certificate of Education (SACE) and the International Baccalaureate Diploma (IB).\n\nSt Peter's College, working with Martin Seligman and Lea Waters, has been instrumental in the development and implementation of positive education programs throughout Australia. The former Headmaster, Simon Murray, was Chairman of the Positive Education Schools Association.\n\nIn 2016, St. Peter's College ranked equal 4th in South Australia and 314th nationally for academic achievement (including NAPLAN, ATAR, IBD). According to the Year 9 NAPLAN results in 2016, St. Peter's was above average in reading, writing, spelling and grammar and punctuation, and average for numeracy when compared to similar schools. When compared to all Australian schools it was substantially above average in reading, grammar and punctuation, and numeracy, while above average for writing and spelling. The school has 136 teaching staff and 132 non-teaching staff.\n\nIn 2010 \"The Age\" reported that St Peter's College ranked equal 7th among Australian schools based on the number of alumni who had received a top Order of Australia honour. In 2014 \"The Australian\" ranked the school third in South Australia based on overall NAPLAN results, behind girls' schools, Wilderness School and St Peter's Collegiate Girls' School. It was ranked 16th in Australia for boys' schools.\n\nOf the 1383 students attending the school in 2016, 72% of students had parents in the top quarter of Australian society in socio-economic terms, while 1% came from the bottom quarter. 1% of students have indigenous heritage, while 8% have a non-English speaking background.\n\nAccording to the Australian Government's MySchool website, in 2015 St. Peter's recorded a net income of $34.5m, 64% of which came from student fees ($26k from each student), 12% from the Australian Government and 20% from private sources.\n\nThe origins of the school lie in the ambition of the early colonists to establish for their sons an institution equivalent to the public schools from which they benefited in Great Britain. They founded the Church of England Collegiate School of South Australia, or \"The Collegiate School\", as a proprietary school on 15 July 1847 in the schoolroom of Trinity Church on North Terrace. The name Sancti Petri Schola Collegiata (SPSC) was given. The school's foundation was followed by the arrival of the first Bishop of Adelaide Augustus Short in December 1847. Short brought with him an endowment of £2,000 from the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge with which he was expected establish an institution for the Church of England. He intended to use the Trinity School as the basis for this institution and had his chaplain T. P. Wilson appointed as its Head Master. He also purchased the school's current estate in Hackney. A similarly large endowment was contributed by William Allen, who through an early investment in the South Australian Mining Association had become wealthy.\n\nIn 1849, negotiations between Short and the proprietors concluded, and a Council of Governors was established as per their agreement. The school was rededicated as the Collegiate School of St Peter upon incorporation in July 1849. The Latin translation, Sancti Petri Schola Collegiata, is still used as the school acronym, SPSC, although it is often Anglicised to \"St Peter's School Collegiate\". Wilson, the first head master, resigned in 1851 after a dispute with the school's governors. The second master, S. P. R. Allom, acted in his place until Edmund Jenkins arrived in 1853.\n\nThe college moved to its present location in 1854, with 70 students, two habitable classrooms and two masters. The Ven. George Henry Farr, M.A., LL.D. (1819–1904) arrived from England in July of that year and served as head master 1854–1879.\n\nThe following individuals have served as headmaster or any precedent title since the College's opening in 1847. The current headmaster is Tim Browning.\n\nThe school's emblem consists of a blue shield with white trim, surmounted by two golden keys and bishop's mitre (contemporary versions place the mitre within rather than above the shield, dissimilating the emblem from that of the Diocese of Gloucester). The keys represent Saint Peter while the mitre represents the school's link to the Anglican Church. Beneath the shield is a scroll with the school's Latin motto \"Pro Deo et Patria\", which translates into English as \"For God and Country\".\n\nUpon entering the Middle School in Year 7, all boys are assigned to a house. There are 10 houses, each named after prominent figures in the school's history. Four of these—Da Costa, Farrell, Hawkes and Short—were the original four houses founded in 1920. To accommodate the growing student population five additional houses were founded: MacDermott, Woodcock, Young, Howard and Farr. There is also a boarding house, School & Allen House, that was established in 2003 through the amalgamation of School House with Wyatt & Allen. Houses meet several times each week, and compete in various intra-school competitions throughout the year. Through sporting, academic, musical, fundraising and other competitions throughout the year, the houses compete for the Sir George Murray Shield.\n\nThe school is situated on of landscaped grounds only from the Adelaide central business district on Hackney Road and North Terrace in the suburb Hackney. Neighbouring suburbs College Park and St Peters were named after the school. The main campus' facilities include seven ovals, a hockey pitch, ten tennis courts and two swimming pools. It features mostly heritage architecture, such as \"Palm House\" (built for William Peacock), but also includes modern buildings. The \"Big School Room\" is thought to be Australia's oldest classroom still in constant use.\n\nThe most recent addition to the school has been the extensive redevelopment and extension of the Pentreath Building, featuring new technological state-of-the-art classrooms and wide open corridors with learning in mind. After redevelopment, it became the centre of the Middle Years program, which sees Year Sevens and Eights moving into the Senior School as regular students. The next most recent redevelopment is the Junior School, featuring new classrooms and lecture facilities as well as an observatory. In the Senior School, the Burchnall Sports Centre is also a recent development, which includes two basketball courts, a 25-metre pool, a diving pool, a strength and conditioning room, and café. The school is soon to commence construction of the 'Leadership and Ethics Centre' featuring lecture facilities, a new Year 12 common room and the school's museum.\n\nThe College also owns a large outdoor education property in Finniss, situated on several hectares of land on the banks of the River Finniss. The property includes dormitories, teacher accommodation and a gymnasium, and students are involved with the property's revegetation program of native flora. The property's location on the banks of the River Finniss makes it an ideal location for the school's Rowing and Sailing camps.\n\nA significant source of the school's revenue is the estate of Benjamin Mendes da Costa. Da Costa, a successful Adelaide businessman, died in 1868 and bequeathed to the school an estate of £20,000 (over £2,200,000 in 2020 GBP). The bequest was subject to the life interests of ten relations; the last surviving relation died in 1910 and in 1912 the property was vested in the school. A large portion of the estate remains land in prominent city-centre locations. Income generated by the estate is used to subsidise the fees of all students, along with several scholarships and bursaries. The College sold sold one of its properties, Da Costa Arcade, near Rundle Mall, in 2005.\n\nA somewhat common Adelaidean urban myth asserts that the Da Costa estate was intended to be given to the Catholic church rather than the Anglican, and that the funds were awarded to Saints after a supposed legal battle. This myth has no basis in fact and most probably stems from misconceptions of da Costa's religion due to his Portuguese family name.\n\nEach student at St Peter's is required to play both a summer and winter sport.\n\nStaff and past students conduct training sessions. Weekend competitions are held at the school (or at away venues) each weekend against other schools in Adelaide. Many sports have an annual intercollegiate showdown against rivals Prince Alfred College, known as the \"Intercol\". Some intercol events include the Head of the River, Football showdown, Water Polo and Basketball. The Cricket Intercol is one of the oldest continuing cricket matches in the world, having been played annually since 1878.\n\nThe school runs an extensive music program which encourages students to study musical instruments and perform in ensembles. These ensembles perform in several concerts throughout the year, both within the school and externally. Groups include a middle-school, intermediate and senior concert band, senior choir, orchestra, string orchestra, Dixieland Band, and three big bands with the senior two formerly named after prominent Australian jazz musicians James Morrison and Don Burrows.\n\nIn 2018, the Music Department was moved to the former Languages Centre, next to the Burchnall Sports Centre. This new facility included sound-proofed practice rooms, large rehearsal spaces, and will include a recording studio.\n\nThe Outdoor Education campus at Finniss is used by students from years 4 to 10 for annual camps, with camps culminating in Year 10 with the 21-day Peak Experience in the Flinders Ranges. In addition, students have the opportunity to join the Exploration Society, which allows boys with a passion for outdoor activities to pursue more challenging ventures. Activities include hiking, kayaking, rock-climbing, mountain bike touring and cross country skiing.\n\nSt Peter's College's exchange program has links with schools in Germany, France, China, South Africa, England, Switzerland, Mexico and Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120271", "title": "Mellor, Greater Manchester", "text": "Mellor, Greater Manchester\n\nMellor is a village in Greater Manchester, England, between Marple Bridge and New Mills, Derbyshire.\n\nBuildings in the village include St. Thomas' Church, a primary school, golf course, sports club, a riding school, three pubs, The Royal Oak, The Devonshire Arms, and The Oddfellows Arms, and the late 17th century Mellor Hall.\n\nThe village was a civil parish in the county of Derbyshire until 1936 when it was transferred to Marple Urban District in Cheshire; in 1974 it became part of the Metropolitan Borough of Stockport in Greater Manchester.\n\nThe ancient past of Mellor is slowly being discovered as a result of a long-term archaeological survey of the area by means of excavations and geophysical surveys, including ground-penetrating radar. Although some history had survived by means of written records and local tradition, it has become clear that such knowledge only scratched the surface and that the extent of Mellor's past had passed from such memories.\n\nThe origin of the name \"Mellor\" is uncertain. In one Celtic dialect, the term would translate to \"the bare (or rounded) hill\". The name \"Mellor\" does not appear in the Norman-era Domesday Book, although the neighbouring town of Ludworth (recorded as Lodeuorde) is listed. It is possible that Ludworth originally included Mellor and that they split into two distinct areas at a later date.\n\nThe Saxons built a church at the southernmost end of the Iron Age settlement some time in the 7th or 8th centuries. The church was subsequently destroyed and rebuilt, possibly several times. St. Thomas Church has the oldest known wooden pulpit in Britain, possibly the world. Dating from the reign of Edward II (1307–1327), it is octagonal and carved from a single piece of wood. The church also has a 12th-century font.\n\nAccording to local legend, Mellor Hall is built on the foundations of the house of a Norman nobleman. During excavations of the Iron Age hill fort, a 13th-century hall was discovered. By the time of the English Civil War, Marple had become totally dominant in the region. So much so that John Bradshawe, Lord President of the High Court of Justice and Lord of Marple Hall was the first to sign the death warrant of King Charles I.\nSamuel Oldknow was a significant businessman and mill owner in Mellor during the Industrial Revolution. Just across the River Goyt, there are the \"Roman Lakes\". These are not Roman, but were water reservoirs for Samuel Oldknow's Mellor Mill cotton mill, a major employer in the area in the Industrial Revolution.\n\nOne of the local stories involves the fate of Samuel Oldknow's mill at the Roman Lakes, which was destroyed by fire in November 1892. Accidents at such mills were common, but so were violent rivalries. There have been claims made for both cases. The only thing that can be stated with any certainty is that the mill was gutted by the blaze.\n\nThe other major figure in Mellor at this time was William Radcliffe, a mill owner who invented many devices for improving the textile industry.\n\nAt the height of the Industrial Revolution, coal-power supplanted water-power as the driving force and minable coal seams were found in Mellor. Relatively recently, the British Coal Board strip-mined those seams that still had sufficient coal in them.\n\nMellor began to grow during the Victorian era. Before it was very small and consisted of a few houses and Moorend. Nowadays, Moorend is considered a part of Mellor.\nMellor lies in the foothills of the Pennines, just outside the area of Derbyshire known as the High Peak. Nearby villages include Rowarth, Marple Bridge, Ludworth and Mill Brow. The town of Marple lies across the River Goyt. A little further away are the towns of Romiley and New Mills and the villages of Hayfield and Strines. Mellor Church and Mellor Hall are situated on the top of a ridge that is separated from the bulk of the village of Mellor by a gully and stream.\n\nThe oldest part of inhabited Mellor runs alongside the river Goyt, stretching from the oldest parts of Marple Bridge up the hill, spreading out where the slope becomes gentle. Newer parts of the village run down Longhurst Lane, the old turnpike road, and into former farmland released for building by Townscliffe Farm. At the very top of Mellor is the junction of Five Ways. One of these roads runs to Mellor, a second to Rowarth, a third to Strines and New Mills, the fourth to a water treatment plant and a fifth to many farms on the edge of Mellor. Spoil heaps indicate mining operations here and coal was mined in the general area during the Industrial Revolution.\n\nBecause of the topology, Mellor lies on one of the easier points for entering the Pennines from the Mersey Basin by road or foot. It is also on the flight path for air traffic into Manchester Airport, formerly known as Ringway.\n\nMellor is located on a gritstone area in an area of the Peak District referred to as the Dark Peak. (In contrast, the limestone region of the Peak District is referred to as the White Peak.) The underlying geology of the area belongs to the Carboniferous Millstone Grit series which are outcrop as the Middle Grit. Below this are shales and mudstones and older Gritstones such as the Kinder Scout Grit which forms the Kinder Plateau to the East. Small seams of coal have been found in Mellor, over the gritstone. Boulder clay, left from the Ice Age, can usually be found just below the surface-level soil. At one point, all of the Peak District – Mellor included – was submerged beneath relatively warm waters. Evidence for this is the limestone region, with the limestone containing fossils of coral and other shallow-depth warm-water creatures.\n\nThe gritstone comes from deposits laid down about 300 million years ago over the limestone. Shallow coal deposits lie on top of the gritstone, although most of these have long since been mined. Very deep coal deposits do exist further into the Pennines, but again many of these have been worked out. Although evidence exists for volcanos elsewhere in the Peak District,\n\nThe soil in Mellor is fairly rich in peat and can bog easily, but there are no permanent peat bogs within Mellor itself. The only other noteworthy detail on Mellor's geology is the almost complete absence of iodine, particularly in the water of the River Goyt. If no other source of iodine is in the diet, the consequent iodine deficiency can lead to an enlarged thyroid gland, a condition is known as \"Derbyshire Neck\", or goitre.\n\nOn the creation of Greater Manchester, Mellor became a part of Stockport Metropolitan Borough.\n\nThe voters of Mellor consist of, in almost equal numbers, Liberal Democrats and Conservatives. Labour have never done well here. Mellor is not noted for being particularly active on the political front. Nonetheless, turnout for elections is often very high.\n\nAccording to the Office for National Statistics, at the time of the United Kingdom Census 2001, Mellor had a population of 2,394. The 2001 population density was , with a 100 to 92.1 female-to-male ratio. Of those over 16 years old, 18.8% were single (never married), 54.6% married, and 6.6% divorced. This was significantly different to the borough and country figures, with a higher rate of marriages, and fewer single people. Mellor's 1,070 households included 27.4% one-person, 43.5% married couples living together, 5.7% were co-habiting couples, and 5.9% single parents with their children. Of those aged 16–74, 20.9% had no academic qualifications.\n\nAt the 2001 UK census, 88.4% of Mellor's residents reported themselves as Christian, 1.0% Muslim, and 0.2% Hindu. The census recorded 5.8% as having no religion, 0.2% had an alternative religion and 4.4% did not state their religion.\n\nA few small businesses work out of the old mills that scatter the countryside, and there is a limited amount of farming, principally grazing livestock: sheep and beef cattle. A few farms have free-range chickens, but the majority of poultry are battery-farmed. Horses are also common, and horse-riding is a popular pursuit in the area, which benefits from many ancient bridleways.\n\nAccording to the 2001 UK census, the industry of employment of residents of Mellor aged 16–74 was 18.3% manufacturing, 16.3% retail and wholesale, 12.2% health and social work, 12.0% education, 11.7% property and business services, 6.6% public administration, 4.6% construction, 4.5% transport and communications, 4.2% hotels and restaurants, 2.7% finance, 2.0% agriculture, 0.7% energy and water supply, and 4.2% other. Compared with national figures, the town had a relatively high proportion of people working in education, agriculture, and public administration, and low levels of people working in finance and transport and communications. The census recorded the economic activity of residents aged 16–74, 1.8% students were with jobs, 3.4% students without jobs, 3.1% looking after home or family, 4.1% permanently sick or disabled, and 1.1% economically inactive for other reasons.\n\nMellor Lacrosse Team has enjoyed success in its 80-year history, winning the North of England men's championship on many occasions, the most recent being 2006. The club has three men's senior teams and a junior section and has recently created a ladies team. The club also regularly plays host to touring teams from the USA at junior and senior level.\n\nMellor Football Club was founded in 1923 by members of the Hambleton Family. Mellor FC's home ground is Wood Lane in Marple, and the club currently boasts four open-age teams. Mellor 1st XI are currently in the Premier Division of the Lancashire and Cheshire League and won the Stockport Senior Cup in the 2004–05 season.\n\nMellor Cricket Club had two senior teams that played in the Derbyshire and Cheshire League having previously played in the Glossop and District League for many years and before that, in the High Peak League. They now play in the Cheshire County League 3rd XI Saturday Division 2 under \"Marple-Mellor\" having resigned from the Derbyshire and Cheshire League in 2008.\n\nThe tennis club was formed around the end of the Second World War, between 1945 and 1950. It originally had only one grass court. This was later extended to include two shale courts and later to include two all-weather courts. These were then replaced with astroturf. It has three men's and three ladies' teams in the Slazenger North East Cheshire League.\n\nMellor's badminton club has eight teams: two teams in the Tameside Badminton League, three in the Stockport Badminton League and three Junior teams in the Stockport Badminton League.\n\nThe golf course runs through a sparsely populated section of the oldest inhabited part of Mellor. The course offers a very clear view over Greater Manchester and on a clear day the Welsh Mountains can be seen.\n\nThere are a number of additional societies within Mellor, ranging from church activities to painting to rambling.\n\nSome of these societies run charitable events in the area. For example, every four years the local residents open a number of private gardens during an event known as the Mellor Open Gardens day. The purpose of the event is to raise funds for Cancer Research UK and the support of the local Parish Centre. Another event is the Mellor March, in which ramblers carry out a sponsored walk to traverse the boundary of Mellor.\n\nMellor has bus routes going through the village but no railway station; the closest station to Mellor is Marple railway station.\n\nAs with all towns and villages of this age, there are legends, myths and mysteries.\n\nOne local mystery involves Thomas Brierley, the treasurer of the freemasonry lodge in Mellor around 1785. He had his gravestone carved, using a masonic cipher called 'Pigpen', some years prior to his death. The text at the head of the stone says \"Thomas Brierley made his ingress July 16, 1785\". The cipher at the foot of the gravestone says \"Holiness of the Lord\". The Pigpen cipher was used by Freemasons in the 18th century to keep their records private, and the cipher on Thomas Brierley's grave seems have a non-standard symbol for the letter \"S\". According to some, Thomas Brierley fell to his death from the church tower, but other sources disagree so this story may be an urban legend. To add to the mystery, a bronze plaque was added to the stone in recent times with more cipher upon it, the cipher used being similar but not identical.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nGeneral information\n\nGeography\n\nHistorical information for Mellor\n"}
{"id": "2120273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120273", "title": "Pacific Mall", "text": "Pacific Mall\n\nPacific Mall is an Asian shopping mall in Markham, Ontario, Canada. It is the largest indoor Asian shopping mall in North America, and has been reported as the largest Asian shopping mall in the Western world. The mall is located on the northeast corner of Steeles Avenue and Kennedy Road, along the city limits with Toronto. Opened in the mid-1990s amid a period of significant Chinese immigration to Canada, the mall operates as a condominium corporation with 450 individual units. The mall also includes Heritage Town, a food court and market that functions as a notable tourist destination in the Greater Toronto Area. \n\nAn addition to Pacific Mall that would occupy the site formerly held by Market Village, a now-defunct mall adjacent to Pacific Mall, was announced in 2005. The expansion would see the construction of a structure that would bring the combined size of the malls to , though the project has faced numerous delays. Pacific Mall is further noted as a location for the sale of counterfeit goods; stores in Pacific Mall have been raided multiple times by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, and in 2018 the mall was listed as a notorious market by the Office of the United States Trade Representative.\n\nPacific Mall is built on the site formerly occupied by Cullen Country Barns, a farm-themed complex opened in 1983 that housed shops, a theatre, and restaurants. The complex was established by Len Cullen, the founder of Cullen Gardens and Miniature Village in Whitby, Ontario, and consisted of two barn wings with gambrel roofs and a concrete silo. None were historic structures dating back to the time when the site was a working farm, but they were acquired by Cullen and moved from Pickering, Ontario, to Markham in the 1970s. A fire damaged part of the complex in 1988, and it was demolished in 1994; some portions of the former Market Village, a shopping complex adjacent to Pacific Mall, mimicked the Cullen complex.\n\nPlanning for Pacific Mall began in the late 1980s amid the formation of Chinese immigrant communities in suburban Toronto and a flourishing of ethnic malls in Markham, Richmond Hill, and Scarborough. The mall was planned and constructed amid the so-called \"Hong Kong Tide\" of the 1980s and 1990s, which saw an increase in immigration to Canada by highly educated, skilled migrants from Hong Kong who were frequently wealthy entrepreneurs and investors. This immigration was influenced by a range of factors, notably the handover of Hong Kong, and new Canadian open-door immigration policies that recruited based on merit rather than national origin. The passage of the Investment Canada Act, which sought to direct business migrants and foreign capital into Canada, is also noted as a factor. Of additional note is the implementation of the Canadian Immigrant Investor Program (CANIIP), which granted landed immigrant status to individuals with least CAD$500,000 in wealth who agreed to invest $250,000 in Canadian business ventures. As a result of this immigration, Markham's ethnic Chinese population rose 15 percent in 1995, resulting in nearly 30 percent of Markham's population being of Chinese origin; by 1999, there would be a total of 58 Asian shopping malls in Markham, Richmond Hill, and Scarborough. \n\nA large-scale, indoor Asian mall to be built on the former site of Cullen Country Barns was formally proposed in 1993 by Torgan Group, an Israeli-Canadian development company, with the Fairchild Group as a partner. The mall would operate as a condominium corporation, where shop units are owned by individuals who determine the store's inventory and business hours, and can sell the unit at will. The developers of Pacific Mall claimed they were the first mall in North America to use this business model, though Pacific Mall was preceded by the condominium mall Chinatown Centre in West Chinatown, Toronto, which opened in 1989.\n\nThe mall's construction was opposed by some long-term residents of Markham, and was delayed numerous times from 1993 to 1996. Concerns were raised by Markham City Council over the impact the mall would have parking and traffic volume, the style of the building that would replace Cullen Country Barns, and challenges in dealing with multiple owners in a condo-style mall. The Council commissioned an independent study on retail condominiums by John Winter and Associates, which concluded that retail condos are a positive means of diversifying developments. Pacific Mall's application underwent a nine-month review, with a building permit granted in May 1995.\n\nHistorian Erica Allen-Kim argues that Pacific Mall was \"a weathervane for Markham's ongoing transformation from a rural township to an ethnoburb.\" Then-deputy mayor of Markham Carole Bell received criticism for her statement that \"everything's going Chinese\" in response to the proliferation of ethnic malls. She attempted to implement by-laws that would have forbid the rezoning of industrial areas for retail condominiums and made English-language signs mandatory on all structures. Then-mayor of Markham Don Cousens formed an advisory council of eleven Markham residents and three members of council to \"address associated multicultural issues affecting planning decisions.\"\n\nSources report Pacific Mall as opening either in 1996 or 1997. Its Cantonese name, \"太古廣場\" (Tai Gu Gwong Cheung), is derived from Pacific Place in Hong Kong. At the time of its opening, Pacific Mall was the only mall of any kind of its scale in Scarborough and Markham. The mall's 715 retail condos were presold by 1993 for an average of $200 per square foot, and were priced from $59,800 to $249,800. A majority of condo buyers originated from Hong Kong, where Pacific Mall units were advertised extensively; many investors purchased units in Pacific Mall in order to fulfill the $250,000 investment requirement of CANIIP.\n\nAfter business at the mall was initially slow, half of the unused second floor (which is owned and operated by Torgan Group, rather than condo leasees) was renovated in 1999 into Heritage Town, a food court and market that contains approximately 100 vendors. Aimed at attracting tourists and non-Chinese customers, Torgan Group commissioned artists and sculptors in China to make custom decorations for Heritage Town, including a large bas-relief of a dragon, 300 lanterns, an emperor's chair, a wood-work bridge, and terracotta soldiers. Heritage Town was successful in attracting additional business, prompting the mall to seek and be awarded designation as a Canadian Tourist Attraction. As such, Pacific Mall is exempt from the Retail Business Holiday Act and is open year-round, including statutory holidays.\n\nToday, Pacific Mall remains a major destination for tourism in Canada, and promotes itself through pamphlets at airports and tourist information centers in major North American cities. As demographics of Chinese migrants to Canada shifted in 2010s, and immigrants from mainland China form a greater proportion of Chinese immigrants, many businesses at Pacific Mall have opted to hire salespeople fluent in Cantonese, Mandarin, and English. Though stores in the mall are noted for having relatively high turnover, many stores continue to be operated by their initial Hong Kong-originating owners.\n\nPacific Mall is the largest indoor Asian shopping mall in North America and has been reported as the largest Asian shopping mall in the Western world. The mall is surrounded by an existing shopping plaza, including remnants of the former Market Village, which collectively encompass over 500 stores and 1,500 indoor and outdoor parking spaces. Stores range in size from and sell a wide variety of goods, including traditional Chinese clothing, contemporary fashion, jewelry, herbal medicine, tea, electronics, mobile phones, ornaments, food, and printed material such as Chinese books, magazines and newspapers. A \"diminishing number\" of stores sell both legitimate and pirated CDs and DVDs; the decline in the sale of these goods can be attributed to regular police raids and the growing ubiquity of this material online.\n\nAs a condominium corporation, store owners elect representatives to form a management board, which oversees the operation of the mall.\n\nPacific Mall was designed by Wallman Clewes Bergman Architects, who built the structure in a combination of red brick, steel beams, and glass. The firm sought to create a \"fabulous transparent building as different as possible from its surrounding,\" but rather than emulate Chinese architecture, sought to create a building that complimented Markham's suburban architecture. The mall's market-style interior with exposed roof trusses, pipes, and roof decks is described as \"good representation of shed typology that is characterized by mass production, cost efficiency, and fast construction.\"\n\nThe mall has two floors and a basement level that leads to an underground parking lot. The corridors of the main floor are arranged in a grid, with each corridor given a street name: corridors running north–south are named after streets in Hong Kong, such as Hennessy Avenue, Hollywood Avenue, Pacific Avenue, Queen's Avenue, and Nathan Avenue, while corridors running east–west are numerical, with numbers associated with affluence and luck in Cantonese, such as 218th Street and 188th Street. The center of the mall contains an indoor courtyard with a cathedral dome ceiling and stage that hosts cultural programs and trade fairs. The second floor contains a food court, entertainment center, medical offices, additional shops, and Heritage Town.\n\nOn June 15, 2005, Pacific Mall and Market Village announced a 400,000-square-foot (37,000-square-metre) expansion that would see the construction of additional retail space, a luxury hotel, condominiums, and a multi-level parking structure that would bring the combined size of the malls to . In 2009, the developers announced they would instead demolish Market Village and construct a new adjoining mall, the Remington Centre. The project has faced numerous delays; while the expansion plan was endorsed by Markham City Council in 2011, it requires additional approvals from the municipal government of Toronto and a majority of the ownership of Pacific Mall, 40 percent of which is composed of individual retailers.\n\nPacific Mall is noted for its sale of counterfeit and pirated goods, including video games, movies, music, electronic devices, cosmetics, apparel, and fragrances. In January 2018, the mall was listed as a notorious market by the Office of the United States Trade Representative, which noted that vendors in Pacific Mall “operate largely with impunity” despite requests for assistance from law enforcement. Pacific Mall management responded that they were \"deeply disturbed\" by the designation, and stated that they would give warnings to vendors who sold illicit goods.\n\nThe mall has been raided multiple times by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP). On May 5, 2005, the RCMP seized over $800,000 worth of counterfeit goods, including 30,000 DVDs and 3,000 video games. On July 13, 2006, over 1,000 copies of pirated video game software were seized. On May 6, 2009, over 49,000 DVDs, 217 DVD burners, and over 100,000 blank DVDs were seized; four individuals were charged with multiple counts under the Copyright Act. On December 3, 2012, over $3 million worth of counterfeit goods were seized from Pacific Mall as a part of \"Project Consumer Safety.\" On June 27, 2018, seven search warrants were executed for stores in Pacific Mall, resulting in the seizure of clothing, handbags, and cell phone accessories; eight individuals were charged with knowingly or recklessly making false representation to the public and selling or distributing goods in association with a trademark on May 28, 2019 as a result of the seizures and subsequent police investigation.\n\nIn March 2009, the RCMP teamed with the York Regional Police and commenced uniformed foot patrols in shopping malls located in south Markham, including Pacific Mall, in an effort to curb the sale of counterfeit items.\n\nPacific Mall is a major contributor to traffic congestion in southern Markham. The surrounding road infrastructure, which was built only to accommodate Market Village, is insufficient in accommodating the large volume of vehicle traffic that the mall receives. Pacific Mall also suffers from a parking shortage; though the mall contains an underground garage facility, no additional parking has been added since the mall's opening.\n\nOn February 20, 2009, Kit Chen \"Daniel\" Cheong, 26, was shot and killed at the XSITE Cell Phones store in Pacific Mall. The primary suspect in the case was identified as Bryan Valentine Gardner from security camera footage; Gardner was arrested in London, Ontario, on September 2, 2010, 18 months after the incident. On August 28, 2013, Gardner was sentenced to life in prison, with no chance of parole until 2026.\n\nPacific Mall is located at the corner of Steeles Avenue and Kennedy Road in Markham, along the city limits with Toronto. It is served by both the Toronto Transit Commission (routes 43 Kennedy and 53 Steeles East) and York Region Transit (Route 8 Kennedy) buses, and is located within walking distance of the Milliken GO Station, which connects to the Stouffville line. The two street entrances to the mall are located at Redlea Avenue and Clayton Drive.\n\n\nBibliography \n\n"}
{"id": "2120277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120277", "title": "Albert Nordengen", "text": "Albert Nordengen\n\nAlbert Nordengen (2 May 1923 – 18 December 2004 ) was a Norwegian banker and politician with the Conservative Party. He became one of the more popular and beloved mayors in the history of Oslo.\n\nHe was born and grew up in Våler, Østfold as one of six children of Karl Severin Nordengen (1892–1976) and Elsebet Vigdal (1902–86). At age 14, he entered Treiders handelsskole and later Grimelands skole both in Oslo. He graduated from the Banking Academy (\"Bankakademiet\") in 1947 and began his banking career as an assistant at Spareskillingsbanken.\n\nHe started his political career as a member of the Oslo City Council. He served as a member of the city council from 1952 to 1991. He became group leader for the Conservative Party in the city council in 1968. In 1976 he became mayor, a position he held for fourteen years until 1990. Nordengen quickly became a much beloved figure with the citizens of Oslo. Despite being born in rural Østfold, he was a true Oslo patriot even recording a version of the well-known Norwegian song \"Akerselva\" (a tribute to the popular river that runs through the city). In October 2002 he received the King's Order of Merit in Gold for his services to Norwegian politics. In 1993 Nordengen received the Medal of St. Hallvard (\"St. Hallvardsmedaljen\") from the city of Oslo.\n\nIn 1952, he married Inger Tandberg (1929–2006). They were the parents of Lutheran theologian and author Per Anders Nordengen (born 1953). On 9 December 2004, after speaking at a gathering for veteran athletes, he collapsed in a parking lot due to a myocardial infarction. He never regained consciousness before dying nine days later at Diakonhjemmet Hospital .\n"}
{"id": "2120281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120281", "title": "Cavalier Air Force Station", "text": "Cavalier Air Force Station\n\nCavalier Air Force Station, North Dakota is a United States Air Force installation of the 10th Space Warning Squadron of the 21st Space Wing that monitors and tracks potential missile launches against North America with the GE AN/FPQ-16 Enhanced Perimeter Acquisition Radar Attack Characterization System (PARCS). The PARCS also monitors and tracks over half of all earth-orbiting objects to enable space situation awareness and space control. In addition to contractors, NORAD has US and Canadian military members assigned to the facility.\n\nThe AN/FPQ-16 PARCS is a solid state phased array radar system housed \"on a plain just east of the Pembina Escarpment\" in a 37 m (121 ft) with a single-faced phased array radar pointed northward over Hudson Bay. In normal operation PARCS can spot an object the size of a basketball (24 cm) at 3000 km (2000 miles). Tests during the 1970s & 1980s showed that with proposed software updates (not carried out) it could spot objects less than 9 cm in size. It analyzes more than 20 000 tracks per day, from giant satellites to space debris.\n\nThe PARCS building includes an underground power plant with five, 16 cylinder dual-fuel (diesel/natural gas) engines manufactured by Cooper Bessemer driving 5 General Electric generators for a total output of 14 megawatts.\n\nThe facility was built as one site of the Stanley R. Mickelsen Safeguard Complex for the Safeguard Program's anti-ballistic missile defense, with the PAR providing detection data for computing preliminary trajectories to be provided to the Missile Site Radar (the complex was deactivated in 1976). In 1977, the USAF acquired the site and expanded it into the Concrete Missile Early Warning System (CMEWS) named for the nearby Concrete ND community. \n\nThe military installation was named for Cavalier ND in 1983 when Concrete's post office closed.\n\nBAE Systems maintained the PARCS site from 2003 - 2017.\n\nSummit Technical Solutions, LLC took over the Operations, Maintenance and Logistics support of the PARCS site in October 2017.\n\nNotable units based at Cavalier Air Force Station. \n\nAir Force Space Command (AFSC)\n\n\nThe 10th SWS is a Geographically Separate Unit, which although based at Cavalier, is subordinate to the 21st Space Wing based at Peterson AFB in Colorado.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120282", "title": "Nickelodeon (film)", "text": "Nickelodeon (film)\n\nNickelodeon is a 1976 comedy film directed by Peter Bogdanovich, and stars Ryan O'Neal, Burt Reynolds and Tatum O'Neal. According to Bogdanovich, the film was based on true stories told to him by silent film directors Allan Dwan and Raoul Walsh. It was entered into the 27th Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nIn 1914, Leo Harrigan (Ryan O'Neal) goes from being a lawyer to a writer and then to a film director. However, Leo has problems, such as being hopelessly smitten with his leading lady, who chooses to grab his attentions by getting herself engaged to his vulgar and ignorant leading man, Buck Greenaway (Burt Reynolds). Leo is forced to move from New Jersey to California to keep one step ahead of the Motion Picture Patents Company, who are out to destroy any non-authorized equipment violating the Edison Trust. Leo finally settles in with other filmmakers in Hollywoodland, California, and makes a series of dramatic, romantic, and comedic shorts as throwaways. While initially believing movies are just a brief flickering kind of entertainment, Leo is profoundly affected by the 1915 world premiere of D.W. Griffith's \"The Birth of a Nation\", which transforms the motion picture industry.\n\n\nIn his memoirs, Irwin Winkler says he wanted to make a movie about the silent film era. He took the idea to W.D. Richter, with whom he had worked a number of times, and Richter agreed to write the project on \"spec\" for the producers (Winkler's producing partner was Bob Chartoff). Richters final script was called \"Starlight Parade\" and attracted interested from United Artists and Columbia. David Begelman at Columbia suggested Peter Bogdanovich as director.\n\nWinkler later stated:\nHe made David come to his office and wait until the receptionist said, 'Mr. Bogdanovich will see you now.' As soon as we came inside, we were very haughtily told that he thought the script was a piece of [garbage]. I'd been around long enough to know that I should take that as a bad sign. I remember coming out of the meeting, saying, 'David, why should we make the movie with someone who hates our script?' And all David said was, 'Hey, he's a genius.' ... What he filmed had nothing to do with the original script. I know it meant a lot to Peter to have all of the authentic stories about the silent period in the film, but Rick's script, authentic or not, was terrific. It was just a great drama. By the time Peter was done with it, it was authentic, but it wasn't dramatic anymore. Peter hadn't really experienced any failure yet -- we hired him before 'At Long Last Love' had come out -- so he was easily the most arrogant person I'd ever met in the business, before or since. When we shot the picture, he actually directed some of the scenes on horseback. When I asked him why he was on horseback, he said, \"Because that's the way John Ford did it.'\"\nBogdanovich has an alternative version:\nI should have never gotten involved, I should have done it myself. I'd been planning to do a big picture about the silent era, largely based on the interviews with Dwan, Walsh and McCarey. I was preparing it and I got a call from my agent and she said they're preparing a movie called \"Starlight Parade\", there's another director involved but they want you. I said, \"Well, I don't really want to do their script, I'll have to rewrite it completely.\" \"They'll let you rewrite it, whatever you want.\" Basically I rewrote the whole damn thing and never used any of \"Starlight Parade\". The trouble was, again, the picture had a balance between comedy and drama and it was a comedy-drama, no question about it, and I had wanted to do it in black and white. It was very important to do it in black and white and Columbia, the studio, wouldn't let me. I had a big fight about that and they cancelled the picture. Then Barry Spikings at British-Lion came in and funded some of the picture, threw in a few million dollars. It ended up being a Columbia-British Lion picture and but when it was all done it was a difficult picture.\n\nThe movie's title was eventually changed to \"Nickelodeon\".\n\nBogdanovich said his original choices for the leads were Jeff Bridges, John Ritter, Cybill Shepherd and Orson Welles. However Columbia Pictures head David Begelman refused and Burt Reynolds and Ryan O'Neal were cast in the leads. He also refused to let Bogdanovich's then-girlfriend Shepherd in the female lead out of fear of a public backlash against her, following the poor box office performance of \"Daisy Miller\" and \"At Long Last Love\". Brian Keith played the part Bogdanovich wanted Welles to play. (He later said he was going to play it at one stage.) Of Bogdanovich's original picks for the leads, only Ritter was cast, in a smaller role, as cameraman Franklin Frank in what would be the first of three collaborations between him and Bogdanovich (the other two being 1981's \"They All Laughed\", and 1992's \"Noises Off\".)\n\n\"The character I play ... is a sort of a Gary Cooper with a little Buster Keaton thrown in,\" said Reynolds. \"I do a lot of pratfalls and fall into things. He's a very shy, sweet, and likeable character. This is a first for me. The part that I would normally play is being played by Ryan O'Neal. He's a fast talking guy trying to become a big success. Peter wrote the film for Ryan O'Neal and me; he sees me [in real life] as that shy guy.\"\n\nTatum O'Neal, who had won an Oscar appearing in \"Paper Moon\" with her father and Bogdanovich, joined the supporting cast.\n\nThe fees for Reynolds and O'Neal were around $750,000 - and Tatum O'Neal was $350,000. This caused the budget to increase and Columbia cancelled the film.\n\n\"This film is not over and done with,\" said Richter in November 1975. \"What it comes down to is a power struggle over the budget. Columbia wants an enormous hunk cut out of it and I think if we can cut if they will make the film. By its very nature it is an expensive project. Why the studio brought this to is another question. Maybe it is the beginning of an attempt to start cutting back stars' prices. I think it is criminal to have to shorten the film just to pay a kings ransom to stars. You end up in debt before you begin.\"\n\nExtra finance was obtained by British Lion and it was announced that filming would proceed. \"We have worked out 99% of the problems and expect to work out 100% of the creative differences,\" said David Begelman in December 1975.\n\nColumbia provided $6 million, British Lion $2 million. The director's fee was $700,000 - $500,000 of which was held as a completion guarantee.\n\nBogdanovich later said the film \"didn't have to cost half as much as it did. The producers insisted it be bigger and I fought but I finally had to accept what they wanted.\"\n\n\"The whole idea was to capture the era, since obviously the original films were shot in black and white,\" Bogdanovich says. \"My cinematographer, Laszlo Kovacs, carefully lit everything to accommodate black-and-white, which is why the lighting looks so good. We used a lot of the techniques of the silent era, irising in and out of scenes. There are no opticals at all in the film. But all the studio wanted was another broad comedy like \"What's Up, Doc?\" \"\n\nDuring filming, Burt Reynolds collapsed on set one day. Doctors could not figure out what was wrong with him and the film had to be postponed for two weeks while he recovered. The film went over schedule and over budget and Bogdanovich had to forfeit his $500,000.\n\n\"I just had a smaller picture in mind,\" said the director later. \"Both Burt Reynolds and Ryan were good in it, and Jane Hitchcock was good but she didn't have any threat about her.\"\n\nRyan O'Neal had made two pictures previously with Bogdanovich but said \"Nickelodeon\" was a \"terrible experience\" and that Bogdanovich \"began no longer using writers ... Orson Welles quit one week before he was to appear in the film ... Bogdanovich rewrote what originally was a tough little script about Hollywood into a farcical series of precious little jokes. I tried to get out of the picture. I told him, 'Peter we had a good script but you changed it. You're locked up there in your house. You've got to get out and regain the gritty edge you showed in \"Last Picture Show\". But he never did.\"\n\nReynolds and his stunt man Hal Needham had an unhappy experience making the film. They later made the film \"Hooper\" which featured a pretentious film director based on Bogdanovich.\n\nWinkler says when he saw a rough cut of the final film he thought it was \"atrocious ... for Peter to blame the movie's failure on the casting and not being in black-and-white is a really terrible excuse for a guy who simply screwed up a really terrific script.\"\n\nFor the Los Angeles premiere, all guests (and some critics) paid five cents to see the movie in honor of the film and early Hollywood ticket prices. However, the movie was unsuccessful at the box office, and was Bogdanovich's third flop in a row after \"Daisy Miller\" and \"At Long Last Love\" (the latter of which was also an attempt to revive an older style of film making).\n\nBogdanovich reminisced in 2004:\nThe previews were edgy and the studio wanted me to take most of the drama out, play it more comedy and turn it more into a What's Up Doc?, which it really wasn't. So that threw it off and it got fucked up. Again, the picture came out not at all the way I wanted. I tried to recut that one and I couldn't get back to it.There's about five minutes I'd like to put back that really makes a difference, some heavy stuff where you find out that Ryan O'Neal has an affair with Stella Stevens, it becomes very clear, and you see that John Ritter knows it, all that stuff. It was just much heavier and darker. So the picture got screwed up and that's why I took three years off and went away.\"\n\nBogdanovich blamed the studio for poor marketing.\nI couldn't seem to get anything across to them. I felt like I was talking into a void. When you've had a few successes you can say the stupidest things in the world and people will think it's clever. When you've had a few flops, you can say something perfectly reasonable and they look at you as if they had no idea what you are talking about.\n\nAs for Richter;\nAfter it became clear the picture was a failure, the most amazing thing happened: I got more job offers than ever before in my life. People seemed so mad at Peter that they were eager to make excuses for me and help me out. And they all wanted to hear about working with him.\n\nAfter making the film, Bogdanovich felt he had compromised so much he took three years off directing before returning with \"Saint Jack\" (1979).\n\nAmong contemporary reviews from critics, Roger Ebert gave the film two stars out of four and called it \"a curiously flat movie. It functions like clockwork and it looks right, but it doesn't feel like much. The laughs are telegraphed, the actors are lifeless (with the exception of Burt Reynolds), and the movie does an abrupt turnabout, from comedy to elegy, about two-thirds of the way through.\" Richard Eder of \"The New York Times\" called the film \"two hours and two minutes of impersonations. Some of them are very good impersonations—deft and funny—but they lack a life to string them together.\" Arthur D. Murphy of \"Variety\" called it \"an okay comedy-drama about the early days of motion pictures. Recreating a cultural era in terms of some of its artistic forms and cliches emerges as an uneven dramatic device though it sometimes works.\" Gene Siskel of the \"Chicago Tribune\" gave the film two stars out of four and wrote that it \"really bogs down with incessantly inept pratfall comedy\" and \"is successful only when it captures the innocence of the period.\" Kevin Thomas of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote, \"In the first part of the film O'Neal, Reynolds and Miss Hitchcock often seem merely silly as they carry on like the exaggerated characters in their own movies. Alas, the effect is to make the latter portion of the movie unduly static and drawn out in comparison to its frenetic beginning. However, the more aware one is of what Bogdanovich is trying to do and the more knowledgeable one is about the era he is trying to evoke, the more enjoyable the movie. Indeed, 'Nickelodeon' is most affecting for the cineaste, and its culminating tribute to D.W. Griffith as the screen's first great artist brings tears to the eyes.\" Gary Arnold of \"The Washington Post\" wrote that while Bogdanovich's new film was not quite a disaster on par with his previous flop \"At Long Last Love,\", \"this elaborate, rambling and ultimately tedious period comedy about the pioneering years of the movie business in Hollywood does not lack for crippling deficiencies, miscalculations and self-indulgences.\"\n\nCritic John Simon called the film \"a sanity test: anyone who catches himself laughing at any of it at this late date should seriously consider committing himself to the nearest mental hospital even though in his case a cure is hardly to be hoped for.\" \n\nAs of December 2019, the film holds a rating of 11% on the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes based on nine reviews, with an average score of 4.92 out of 10.\nThe 2009 DVD release includes a 125-minute \"Director's Cut\" in black and white. \"There's nothing to distract you,\" said Bogdanovich, \"Ryan's blond hair and blue eyes don't distract you, and you focus on the action in an easier way. That's why the funniest movies ever made were silent comedies -- Buster Keaton, Harold Lloyd, Charlie Chaplin. It focuses the attention in a different way, and color is distracting for that sort of thing.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2120284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120284", "title": "National Bowl", "text": "National Bowl\n\nThe National Bowl (originally the Milton Keynes Bowl) is an entertainment venue located in Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, England. The site was a former clay-pit (for brick-making), filled in and raised to form an amphitheatre using sub-soil excavated by the many new developments in the area and it has a current maximum capacity of 65,000. The arena is open-air grassland, without seats.\n\nThe venue opened in 1979, with gigs by Desmond Dekker and Geno Washington. \n\nIn 1992, Sony/Pace bought the venue and re-branded it as the \"National Bowl\", building a permanent massive sound stage. They pulled out in 1996 citing profitability reasons.\n\nEnglish Partnerships, which merged with the Homes and Communities Agency in 2008, bought the site in 2000. From 2006 to 2010, it was leased to a Gaming International/Live Nation UK consortium.\n\nOn 23 January 2006, Gaming International/Live Nation won a further lease in a competitive tender. The consortium made proposals for major developments in a a development summary leaflet (previously linked from the 'Backstage' section of the National Bowl website, now removed).\n\nGaming International handed The Bowl back to Milton Keynes Partnership towards the end of 2010 – so it is unlikely that any of the plans outlined in 2006 will ever be undertaken – apart from a temporary structure built close to The Bowl in summer 2010 which has a temporary three-year planning permission.\n\nIn December 2011, Milton Keynes Council officially adopted proposals to make Milton Keynes an “International Sporting City” which included ambitious plans to redevelop the National Bowl into an international-standard sports training base suitable for hosting visiting international teams when they played at Stadium MK or elsewhere in the UK and also as a permanent home for MK Dons.\n\nMilton Keynes Council agreed to fund the training complex as part of a property deal with Inter MK, a property development company owned by MK Dons chairman Peter Winkelman, on land owned by the Council in Newport Pagnell that was earmarked for housing development and expected to increase substantially in value when planning permission was given. The funding plan involved sale of the site to Inter MK for £2 million, with half of any increase in the value of the site being used to fund the training ground development and the remainder being returned to the Council. However, this plan was abandoned in early 2014 following some local residents beginning judicial review proceedings against the Council on the basis that the plan involved illegal state aid to Inter MK.\n\nMilton Keynes Council consulted on these plans in 2013 before ultimately deciding not to pursue the proposals the following year.\n\nIn February 2014, the BBC reported that an investment company had proposed a new development at the site of Milton Keynes Bowl. This was planned to include the UK's largest water park, and a range of sports facilities and enhancements to the arena. In July 2015, the investment firm leading the proposal announced that it would not proceed with the plan.\n\nIn June 2019, Milton Keynes Council replaced the previous objective in its Council Plan to “Revitalise MK Bowl” with an objective to “Support the MK Dons in delivering a high-standard training ground and academy”.\n\nThis allowed a deal to be agreed in September 2019 between Milton Keynes Council and Inter MK Limited for the National Bowl to be converted into a sports training ground facility partly funded by the Section 106 contributions from enabling commercial and leisure development at the site.\n\nThis returned to the 2013 proposals which Milton Keynes Council had decided not to pursue. It followed the sale by Inter MK of land in Newport Pagnell to Milton Keynes Council for £11 million in July 2018.\n\nInter MK is expected to lodge its planning application with Milton Keynes Council by the end of 2020. \n\n\n\nGaming International already owns Elfield Park, a narrow strip of land on the other side of the A5 from the Bowl, between the A5 and the West Coast Main Line. They cleared a site for the new greyhound stadium there, having recently (2005) purchased it from English Partnerships, and evicted the speedway track and motocross club that had used it for 20 years. Greyhound racing in Milton Keynes was previously at Ashland (since 1966): Gaming International owned that too, but sold it to English Partnerships as a brownfield site for a 350 house development. (The sale of the latter funded the purchase of the former or vice versa). A section of the Elfield Park site is designated as an educational nature reserve.\n\nMilton Keynes Stadium Car Auctions is housed on this strip of land. Car auctions are held there on Wednesday and Friday.\n\nThe Bowl is in south central Milton Keynes, at the junction of Watling Street with Chaffron Way, just north of Bletchley. Parking on site (MK5 8AA) is very limited so fans are encouraged to arrive by public transport. In addition to the shuttle buses from Milton Keynes Central railway station, it is also an easy walk (about ) from the station using Sustrans National Cycle Route 51 from the south side of the station building.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120286", "title": "Mirosław Ferić", "text": "Mirosław Ferić\n\nMirosław Ferić (17 June 1915 – 14 February 1942), was a Polish fighter pilot, a flying ace of World War II.\n\nFerić was born in Travnik in Bosnia and Herzegovina, his father was a Croat (who died during World War I) and his mother was a Pole. In 1919 his family moved to Poland. He graduated in 1938 from the Polish Air Force Academy in Dęblin as a fighter pilot, and served with fighter escadre No. 111 with a rank of \"podporucznik pilot\" (2nd Lt. pilot).\n\nDuring the Invasion of Poland in 1939, he served with Escadre No. 111, assigned to the Pursuit Brigade (\"Brygada Poscigowa\") and defending the Warsaw area. On 3 September his PZL P.11c fighter was damaged in combat but he successfully bailed out. During the campaign he shot down a Hs 126 on 8 September as a 'shared' victory (other sources also credit him with a Bf 110 shared with others, but this victory was not officially credited).\n\nOn 17 September he and other pilots were ordered to evacuate to Romania. There he was interned, but escaped and travelled to France by sea. After training on French aircraft, he was assigned to a flight commanded by Kazimierz Kuzian flying Morane MS-406 fighters protecting aircraft works around Nantes. However, Ferić saw no air combat. After the fall of France, Ferić evacuated in June 1940 to Great Britain.\n\nAfter advanced training at an RAF OTU he was assigned to the newly formed Polish No. 303 Polish Fighter Squadron, based at RAF Northolt flying Hawker Hurricanes and entering service in the Battle of Britain on 31 August 1940. On his first day of combat he shot down a Messerschmitt Bf 109. On 2 September he probably shot down another one, but his plane was damaged and he made a forced landing. On 6 September he shot down another Bf 109, and on 15 September a Bf 109 and Bf 110. On 27 September he shot down a Bf 109 and a Heinkel He 111, and on 5 October a Bf 109.\n\nAfter an operational break the squadron was back in combat in January 1941, flying Supermarine Spitfires on missions over France. On 22 June during a bomber escort he shot down a Bf 109, and on 27 June damaged another. In October he was sent to a six-month rest tour to an Operational Training Unit as an instructor, but after three months he volunteered to return to a combat posting. \n\nFerić returned to No. 303 Squadron in January 1942. On 14 February, he was killed at RAF Northolt after his Spitfire (BL432) broke up at and the resulting G-forces as the aircraft corkscrewed held him inside and prevented him bailing out. He is buried in Northwood Cemetery.\n\nMirosław Ferić was the 11th ranked Polish fighter ace with 8 and 2/3 confirmed kills and 1 probable kill. From September 1939 he had kept a personal diary, which became No.303 Squadron's unit history.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120296", "title": "River Glen, Northumberland", "text": "River Glen, Northumberland\n\nThe River Glen is a seven mile long tributary of the River Till flowing through Northumberland, England. The College Burn and Bowmont Water, both flowing out of the Cheviot Hills, meet near Kirknewton to form the River Glen. The Glen flows past the small settlements of Yeavering, Lanton, Coupland, Akeld and Ewart, before joining the Till.\n\nThe area around the Glen is rich in historical and archaeological interest. Iron Age hilltop forts on peaks to the south of the river overlook the Anglian settlement and palace site at Yeavering, where St. Paulinus baptised new converts and, according to Bede, \"washed them with the water of absolution in the river Glen, which is close by\" (Tomlinson, 1888, p. 504).\n\nBecause there is a reference to a similarly named river in Historia Brittonum by the Welsh author Nennius, some (Ekwal, 1928; Hunt, 2005) have hypothesized that the legendary British warrior Arthur began his campaign against Anglo-Saxon invaders near the confluence of the Glen and Till: \n\nThe area around the Glen was the setting for some of the bloodiest border warfare between Scotland and England. The Battle of Humbleton Hill was fought near the river in 1402, as was the Battle of Geteryne (Yeavering) in 1415.\n\nBetween 1966 and 2010 the flow of the Glen, was measured in its lower reaches at a weir near Kirknewton. The 44 year record shows that the catchment of to the gauging station yielded an average flow of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2120297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120297", "title": "Ugo Fano", "text": "Ugo Fano\n\nUgo Fano (July 28, 1912 – February 13, 2001) was an Italian American physicist, notable for contributions to theoretical physics.\n\nUgo Fano was born into a wealthy Jewish family in Turin, Italy. His father was Gino Fano, a professor of mathematics.\n\nFano earned his doctorate in mathematics at the University of Turin in 1934, under Enrico Persico, with a thesis entitled \"Sul Calcolo dei Termini Spettrali e in Particolare dei Potenziali di Ionizzazione Nella Meccanica Quantistica\" (\"On the Quantum Mechanical Calculation Spectral Terms and their Extension to Ionization\"). As part of his PhD examination he also made two oral presentations entitled: \"Sulle Funzioni di Due o Più Variabili Complesse\" (\"On the functions of two or more complex variables\") and \"Le Onde Elettromagnetiche di Maggi: Le Connessioni Asimmetriche Nella Geometria Non Riemanniana\" (\"Maggi electromagnetic waves: asymmetric connections in non-Riemannian geometry\").\n\nFano worked with Enrico Fermi in Rome, where he was a senior member of 'Via Panisperna boys'. It was during this period that with the urging of Fermi, Fano developed his seminal theory of resonant configuration interaction (Fano resonance profile), which led to two papers, in 1935 and 1961. The latter is one of the most cited articles published in the Physical Review.\n\nFano spent 1936–37 with Werner Heisenberg in Leipzig.\n\nIn 1939, he married Camilla Lattes, also known as \"Lilla\", a teacher who would collaborate with him in a well-known book on atomic and molecular physics, \"Physics of Atoms and Molecules\" (1959). Appendix III of this book presents an elementary description of the collision of two charged particles, which was used by Richard Feynman in lectures that have been published as \"\". An expanded version of this book was subsequently published as \"Basic Physics of Atoms and Molecules\" (1972).\n\nLater in 1939, he immigrated to the United States due to increasing antisemitic measures taking effect in Italy. His initial work in the U.S. was on bacteriophages and pioneering work in the study of radiological physics, specifically, the differences in the biological effects of X-rays and neutrons.\n\nAfter serving a stint at the Aberdeen Proving Ground during World War II, he joined the staff of the National Bureau of Standards (NBS, now the National Institute of Standards and Technology), where he was hired as the first theoretical physicist on the NBS staff. He served there until 1966, when he joined the faculty of physics at the University of Chicago. There he trained, until the early 1990s, about thirty graduate students and postdoctoral research associates, many of whom now occupy leading positions in theoretical atomic and molecular physics in the United States, Europe, and Japan.\n\nFano had a major impact in sustained work over six decades on atomic physics and molecular physics, and earlier on radiological physics. Most areas of current research in these subjects reflect his fundamental contributions. Such phenomena as the Fano resonance profile, the Fano factor, the Fano effect, the Lu-Fano plot, and the Fano–Lichten mechanism bear his name. The Fano theorem used in radiation dosimetry is also a result of his work.\n\nHis brother, Robert Fano, was an eminent professor emeritus of electrical engineering at MIT. Fano's cousin, Giulio Racah, made great contributions to the quantum theory of angular momentum (well known as Racah algebra), and wrote a concise monograph with Fano on the subject (\"Irreducible Tensorial Sets\", 1959).\n\nFano was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Physical Society and a Foreign Member of the Royal Society of London.\nIn 1989 he was awarded the William F. Meggers Award by the Optical Society\n\nHe was awarded the Enrico Fermi Award of the U.S. Department of Energy in 1995. His most-cited work is the 1961 paper mentioned above.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120312", "title": "List of people from New Orleans", "text": "List of people from New Orleans\n\nThis is a list of notable individuals who are or were natives, or notable as residents of, or in association with the city of New Orleans, Louisiana, United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120317", "title": "KV39", "text": "KV39\n\nTomb KV39 in Egypt's Valley of the Kings is one of the possible locations of the tomb of Pharaoh Amenhotep I. It is located high in the cliffs, away from the main valley bottom and other royal burials. It is located in a small wadi that runs from the east side of Al-Qurn, directly under the ridge where the \"village de repos\" (workman's rest area) lies.\n\nNot only is the location unusual, the layout of the tomb is unique as well. It has two axes, one east and one south. It was discovered by Macarious and Andraos, who were working for Victor Loret, but not fully examined. When excavated and re-examined in the 1990s by John Rose, dockets for Thutmose I, Amenhotep I, and possibly Thutmose II were found. The site was further examined in 2002 by Ian Buckley; his team corrected the rough plan and recovered pottery shards for later examination.\nAnother possible location of the tomb of Amenhotep I's tomb is Tomb ANB.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120318", "title": "AnyDVD", "text": "AnyDVD\n\nAnyDVD is a device driver for Microsoft Windows which allows decryption of DVDs on the fly, as well as targeted removal of copy preventions and user operation prohibitions (UOPs). With an upgrade, it will also do the same for HD DVD and Blu-ray Disc. The AnyDVD program runs in the background, making discs unrestricted and region-free. In addition to removing digital restrictions, AnyDVD will also defeat Macrovision analog copy prevention. Analog prevention distorts the video signal to prevent high quality copying from the output. AnyDVD is also able to remove copy-prevention from audio CDs.\n\nThe ripper module is based on code from Elby's CloneDVD. Old versions used a ripper based on FixVTS, but FixVTS was shut down by legal threats from Sony in June 2007. As of version 6.1.4.3, AnyDVD has a revised ripper that removes Sony ARccOS Protection, Macrovision RipGuard, and other structural preventions and repairs both intentional and unintentional mastering errors. It ensures strict compliance with third-party tools, particularly DVD Shrink and Nero Recode.\n\nOn February 17, 2007, SlySoft released \"AnyDVD HD\". AnyDVD and AnyDVD HD are in fact the same piece of software, but the license key determines whether the HD aspects of the software are available to the user. When the HD part of the software is enabled it permits access to HD DVDs and Blu-ray Discs, including decryption of AACS encrypted discs. In the case of Blu-ray Discs, it also supports region code removal (HD DVD has no region code).\n\nBesides dealing with DVD copying issues, AnyDVD can also work in the background to automatically detect and remove additional data sessions contained on Audio CDs which contain copy-prevention measures. This allows audio tracks to be directly accessed on the system for direct playback and for access by CD extraction software. Intentional tracking errors in the audio may also be discovered, for example, those errors involved with key2AudioXS, which may cause major skipping distortions in the ripped audio tracks. By bypassing these methods AnyDVD can provide clean, distortion-free playback and ripping.\n\nOn March 19, 2008, SlySoft released version 6.4.0.0 of AnyDVD HD, which removes BD+ as well. AnyDVD HD has since version 6.4.6.2, August 22, 2008, included the ability to rip movies to an ISO format.\n\nFollowing the resurrection of AnyDVD (HD) in the Redfox guise, AnyDVD was released in a new version (V8.0.1.0) on 17 May 2016. SlySoft licence keys valid for previous versions (V7.6.9.5 and earlier), including \"Free updates until: Forever\" keys will \"not\" work with the new version. It is necessary to purchase a new licence key from Redfox for the new version (available for 1, 2 and 3 years of support and updates or for 'lifetime'). Previous versions (V7.6.9.1 to V7.6.9.5 inc.) access to the new Redfox Online Protection Database will be blocked from 31 May 2016. There is an implied statement that suggests previous versions may no longer work but it may be that this is only where access to the database is required.\n\nAdvertising, sale, and lending of AnyDVD is outlawed in Germany (but possession is not), as it removes copy prevention from DVDs. The Heise news portal was sued by the record industry for linking to SlySoft's website in a news report. The publisher subsequently counter sued with claims of violation of their constitutionally guaranteed freedom of the press and had, as of April 2007, lost two appeal proceedings. The German Federal Constitutional Court decided not to rule on Heise's appeal for the time being because remedies in the ordinary courts had not been exhausted. In October 2010, the Federal Court of Justice of Germany decided in favor of Heise, a verdict now legally binding. The legal status of AnyDVD in other countries is unclear.\n\nGiancarlo Bettini, the owner of Slysoft, was convicted of 6 counts in an Antigua court under the copyright act of 2003 and ordered to pay $30,000 in restitution. At some point in February 2016 SlySoft shut down, with its home page replaced by a message citing \"recent regulatory requirements\". However, the company's support forum remained online, with the name SlySoft replaced with \"RedFox\". SlySoft developers also revealed that none of the company's staff were actually based in Antigua, where SlySoft claimed to have been based, that the company was not involved in legal settlements from AACS LA, and that key staff members still had access to SlySoft's technical infrastructure—including build systems and licensing servers—feasibly allowing development of AnyDVD to continue. This was followed by the release of version 7.6.9.1, which was the first released under the Belize/Latvia-based banner of RedFox.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120328", "title": "Tour 2003", "text": "Tour 2003\n\nTour 2003 is a live and video album by Ringo Starr & His All-Starr Band released in 2004. \n\nAfter releasing \"Ringo Rama\" in 2003, Starr embarked on tour once more with his All-Starr Band and its ever-changing collective of musicians. From the previous band remained Mark Rivera, as does singing percussionist Sheila E. New to the mix are Paul Carrack of Squeeze and Mike + The Mechanics fame, Colin Hay from Australian band Men at Work and John Waite, a solo artist who also had fronted The Babys and Bad English. \n\nThe performance included on the album is from the opening night of his tour at the Casino Rama, just outside Toronto, Ontario in Canada. Despite this, the CD booklet for \"Tour 2003\" confusingly carries a review for a later August show in Detroit. \n\nHaving already exhausted the appearances of most of his 1960s and 1970s contemporaries, Starr's new participants clearly add a strong 1980s element to \"Tour 2003\", giving this recording a different edge. While Starr typically performs his well-known hits from his heyday, he does venture here to include \"Memphis In Your Mind\" from \"Ringo Rama\"\n\nSome critics were quick to note that this live album was Starr's seventh official release of the sort in fourteen years. \"Tour 2003\" generally received lackluster reviews upon release. The release failed to chart.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120332", "title": "Henry Jaglom", "text": "Henry Jaglom\n\nHenry David Jaglom (born January 26, 1938) is an English-born American actor, film director and playwright.\n\nJaglom was born to a Jewish family in London, England, the son of Marie (née Stadthagen) and Simon M. Jaglom, who worked in the import-export business. His father was from a wealthy family from Russia and his mother was from Germany. They left for England because of the Nazi regime. Through his mother, he is a descendant of philosopher Moses Mendelssohn. Jaglom trained with Lee Strasberg at the Actors Studio in New York, where he acted, wrote and directed off-Broadway theater and cabaret before settling in Hollywood in the late 1960s. Under contract to Columbia Pictures, Jaglom featured in such TV series as \"Gidget\" and \"The Flying Nun\" and acted in a number of films which included Richard Rush's \"Psych-Out\" (1968), Boris Sagal's \"The Thousand Plane Raid\" (1969), Jack Nicholson's \"Drive, He Said\" (1971), Dennis Hopper's \"The Last Movie\" (1971), Maurice Dugowson's \"Lily, aime-moi\" (1975) and Orson Welles' \"The Other Side of the Wind\" (1970-1976; 2018).\n\nJaglom's transition from acting in films to creating them was largely influenced by his experience watching the Italian film \"8½\" (1963), he told Robert K. Elder in an interview for \"The Film That Changed My Life\".\n\nThe film changed my identity. I realized that what I wanted to do was make films. Not only that, but I realized what I wanted to make films about: my own life, to some extent.\n\nJaglom began his filmmaking career working with Jack Nicholson on the editing of Hopper's \"Easy Rider\" (1969), and made his writing/directing debut with \"A Safe Place\" (1971), starring Tuesday Weld, Nicholson and Welles. His next film, \"Tracks\" (1976), starred Hopper and was one of the earliest movies to explore the psychological cost on America of the Vietnam War. His third film, the first to be a commercial success, was \"Sitting Ducks\" (1980), a comic romp that co-starred Zack Norman with Jaglom's brother Michael Emil. Film critic David Thomson said of Jaglom's \"Can She Bake a Cherry Pie?\" (1983) that it \"is an actors' film in that it grows out of their personalities—it is as loose and unexpected as life, but is shaped and witty as a great short story. In truth, a new kind of film.\" It stars Karen Black.\n\nJaglom co-starred in four of his most personal films—\"Always, But Not Forever\" (1985), \"Someone to Love\" (1987) starring Orson Welles in his final film performance, \"New Year's Day\" (1989), which introduced David Duchovny, and \"Venice/Venice\" (1992) opposite French star Nelly Alard.\n\nIn 1990, Jaglom directed \"Eating\" (1990) about a group of women with eating disorders and how they cope with it and one another. \"Babyfever\" (1995) was about the issue of women with ticking biological clocks. \"Last Summer in the Hamptons\" (1996) was a Chekhovian look at the life of a theatrical family and starred Viveca Lindfors in her last screen role. \"Déjà Vu\" (1997) was about the yearning of people trying to find their perfect soul mate and was the only film in which Vanessa Redgrave and her mother, Rachel Kempson, appeared together. \"Festival in Cannes\" (2002) explored the lives and relationships of those involved in the world of filmmaking and was shot entirely at the Cannes International Film Festival. \"Going Shopping\" (2005) explored that subject as the third part of Jaglom's \"Women's Trilogy\", the others being \"Eating\" and \"Babyfever\".\n\n\"Hollywood Dreams\" (2007) dealt with a young woman's obsession with fame in the film industry and introduced Tanna Frederick, who then starred in Jaglom's \"Irene in Time\" (2009), a look at the complex relationships between fathers and daughters, and \"Queen of the Lot,\" the sequel-of-sorts to \"Hollywood Dreams\" that co-starred Noah Wyle as well as Christopher Rydell, Peter Bogdanovich, Jack Heller, Mary Crosby, Kathryn Crosby and Dennis Christopher.\n\nJaglom's screen adaptation of \"Just 45 Minutes from Broadway,\" starring Frederick and Judd Nelson, was released in 2012. He is currently editing \"The 'M Word,\" which stars Frederick, Frances Fisher, Michael Imperioli, Gregory Harrison and Corey Feldman for a Fall, 2013 Theatrical Release.\n\nIn 1983, Jaglom taped lunch conversations with Orson Welles at Los Angeles's Ma Maison. Edited transcripts of these sessions appear in Peter Biskind's book \"My Lunches With Orson: Conversations Between Henry Jaglom and Orson Welles\" (2013).\n\nAs a playwright, has written four plays that have been successfully performed on Los Angeles stages: \"The Waiting Room\" (1974), \"A Safe Place\" (2003), \"Always—But Not Forever\" (2007) and \"Just 45 Minutes from Broadway\" (2009/2010).\n\nJaglom is the subject of Henry Alex Rubin's and Jeremy Workman's praised documentary \"Who Is Henry Jaglom?\" (1997). First presented at numerous film festivals, the documentary premiered on PBS's acclaimed documentary series POV and currently has an 86% positive rating on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120341", "title": "Jean-François Remésy", "text": "Jean-François Remésy\n\nJean-François Remésy (born 5 June 1964) is a French professional golfer.\n\nRemésy was born in Nîmes, Occitania. He won the French Amateur Championship in 1985 and turned professional in 1987. For much of his career he has struggled to establish himself as a tour golfer, and he has made over a dozen trips to the European Tour Qualifying School. His first professional win came in a small tournament in France in 1991 and he won on the Challenge Tour in 1994, but he didn't break into the top 100 on the European Tour Order of Merit until 1999. That year he won the Estoril Open on the main tour, and he has continued to progress since then. In 2004 he became the first Frenchman to win the Open de France in 35 years, and in 2005 he retained his title by beating fellow Frenchman Jean van de Velde in a playoff. He lost his card in 2008 after a poor season and went to qualifying school for the 13th time but was not able to earn his tour card for 2009. His best finish on the European Tour Order of Merit came in 2004 when he finished in 19th with €1,083,360.\n\nSince turning 50, Remésy has played senior golf on the European Senior Tour and the PGA Tour Champions. On the PGA Tour Champions his best result was to be tied for 4th place in the 2016 American Family Insurance Championship. In 2018 he won the Swiss Seniors Open, his first win on the European Senior Tour.\n\n\nEuropean Tour playoff record (1–1)\n\n\nEuropean Senior Tour playoff record (0–1)\n\n\"Note: Remésy never played in the Masters Tournament nor the U.S. Open.\"<br>\n\nCUT = Missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\"T\" = Tied\n\nAmateur\nProfessional\n\n"}
{"id": "2120343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120343", "title": "Faraday paradox", "text": "Faraday paradox\n\nThe Faraday paradox or Faraday's paradox is any experiment in which Michael Faraday's law of electromagnetic induction appears to predict an incorrect result. The paradoxes fall into two classes:\n\nFaraday deduced his law of induction in 1831, after inventing the first electromagnetic generator or dynamo, but was never satisfied with his own explanation of the paradox.\n\nFaraday's law (also known as the \"Faraday–Lenz law\") states that the electromotive force (EMF) is given by the total derivative of the magnetic flux with respect to time \"t\":\nwhere formula_2 is the EMF and Φ is the magnetic flux. The direction of the electromotive force is given by Lenz's law. An often overlooked fact is that Faraday's law is based on the total derivative, not the partial derivative, of the magnetic flux. This means that an EMF may be generated even if total flux through the surface is constant. To overcome this issue, special techniques may be used. See below for the section on Use of special techniques with Faraday's law. However, the most common interpretation of Faraday's law is that:\n\nThis version of Faraday's law strictly holds only when the closed circuit is a loop of infinitely thin wire, and is invalid in other circumstances. It ignores the fact that Faraday's law is defined by the total, not partial, derivative of magnetic flux and also the fact that EMF is not necessarily confined to a closed path but may also have radial components as discussed below. A different version, the Maxwell–Faraday equation (discussed below), is valid in all circumstances, and when used in conjunction with the Lorentz force law it is consistent with correct application of Faraday's law.\n\nThe Maxwell–Faraday equation is a generalisation of Faraday's law that states that a time-varying magnetic field is always accompanied by a spatially-varying, non-conservative electric field, and vice versa. The Maxwell–Faraday equation is:\n\n(in SI units) where formula_3 is the partial derivative operator, formula_4 is the curl operator and again E(r, \"t\") is the electric field and B(r, \"t\") is the magnetic field. These fields can generally be functions of position r and time \"t\".\n\nThe Maxwell–Faraday equation is one of the four Maxwell's equations, and therefore plays a fundamental role in the theory of classical electromagnetism. It can also be written in an integral form by the Kelvin–Stokes theorem.\n\nThese paradoxes are generally resolved by the fact that an EMF may be created by a changing flux in a circuit as explained in Faraday's law or by the movement of a conductor in a magnetic field. This is explained by Feynman as noted below. See also A. Sommerfeld, Vol III \"Electrodynamics\" Academic Press, page 362.\n\nThe experiment requires a few simple components (see Figure 1): a cylindrical magnet, a conducting disc with a conducting rim, a conducting axle, some wiring, and a galvanometer. The disc and the magnet are fitted a short distance apart on the axle, on which they are free to rotate about their own axes of symmetry. An electrical circuit is formed by connecting sliding contacts: one to the axle of the disc, the other to its rim. A galvanometer can be inserted in the circuit to measure the current.\n\nThe experiment proceeds in three steps: \n\nThe experiment is described by some as a \"paradox\" as it seems, at first sight, to violate Faraday's law of electromagnetic induction, because the flux through the disc appears to be the same no matter what is rotating. Hence, the EMF is predicted to be zero in all three cases of rotation. The discussion below shows this viewpoint stems from an incorrect choice of surface over which to calculate the flux.\n\nThe paradox appears a bit different from the lines of flux viewpoint: in Faraday's model of electromagnetic induction, a magnetic field consisted of imaginary lines of magnetic flux, similar to the lines that appear when iron filings are sprinkled on paper and held near a magnet. The EMF is proposed to be proportional to the rate of cutting lines of flux. If the lines of flux are imagined to originate in the magnet, then they would be stationary in the frame of the magnet, and rotating the disc relative to the magnet, whether by rotating the magnet or the disc, should produce an EMF, but rotating both of them together should not.\n\nIn Faraday's model of electromagnetic induction, a circuit received an induced current when it cut lines of magnetic flux. According to this model, the Faraday disc should have worked when either the disc or the magnet was rotated, but not both. Faraday attempted to explain the disagreement with observation by assuming that the magnet's field, complete with its lines of flux, remained stationary as the magnet rotated (a completely accurate picture, but maybe not intuitive in the lines-of-flux model). In other words, the lines of flux have their own frame of reference. As we shall see in the next section, modern physics (since the discovery of the electron) does not need the lines-of-flux picture and dispels the paradox.\n\nIn step 2, since there is no current observed, one might conclude that the magnetic field did not rotate with the rotating magnet. (Whether it does or does not effectively or relatively, the Lorentz force is zero since v is zero relative to the laboratory frame. So there is no current measuring from laboratory frame.) The use of the Lorentz equation to explain this paradox has led to a debate in the literature as to whether or not a magnetic field rotates with a magnet. Since the force on charges expressed by the Lorentz equation depends upon the relative motion of the magnetic field (i.e. the laboratory frame) to the conductor where the EMF is located it was speculated that in the case when the magnet rotates with the disk but a voltage still develops, the magnetic field (i.e. the laboratory frame) must therefore not rotate with the magnetic material (of course since it is the laboratory frame), while the effective definition of magnetic field frame or the \"effective/relative rotation of the field\" turns with no relative motion with respect to the conductive disk.\n\nCareful thought showed that, if the magnetic field was assumed to rotate with the magnet and the magnet rotated with the disk, a current should still be produced, not by EMF in the disk (there is no relative motion between the disk and the magnet) but in the external circuit linking the brushes, which is in fact in relative motion with respect to the rotating magnet. (The brushes are in the laboratory frame.)\n\nThis mechanism agrees with the observations involving return paths: an EMF is generated whenever the disc moves relative to the return path, regardless of the rotation of the magnet. In fact it was shown that so long as a current loop is used to measure induced EMFs from the motion of the disk and magnet it is not possible to tell if the magnetic field does or does not rotate with the magnet. (This depends on the definition, the motion of a field can be only defined effectively/relatively. If you hold the view that the field flux is a physical entity, it does rotate or depends on how it is generated. But this does not alter what is used in the Lorentz formula, especially the v, the velocity of the charge carrier relative to the frame where measurement takes place and field strength varies according to relativity at any spacetime point.)\n\nSeveral experiments have been proposed using electrostatic measurements or electron beams to resolve the issue, but apparently none have been successfully performed to date.\n\nThe force F acting on a particle of electric charge \"q\" with instantaneous velocity v, due to an external electric field E and magnetic field B, is given by the Lorentz force:\n\nwhere × is the vector cross product. All boldface quantities are vectors. The \"relativistically-correct\" electric field of a point charge varies with velocity as:\n\nwhere formula_6 is the unit vector pointing from the current (non-retarded) position of the particle to the point at which the field is being measured, and θ is the angle between formula_7 and formula_8. The magnetic field B of a charge is:\n\nAt the most underlying level, the total Lorentz force is the cumulative result of the electric fields E and magnetic fields B of every charge acting on every other charge.\n\nConsider the special case where the cylindrical conducting disk is stationary but the cylindrical magnetic disk is rotating. In such a situation, the mean velocity v of charges in the conducting disk is initially zero, and therefore the magnetic force is 0, where v is the mean velocity of a charge \"q\" of the circuit relative to the frame where measurements are taken, and \"q\" is the charge on an electron.\n\nAfter the discovery of the electron and the forces that affect it, a microscopic resolution of the paradox became possible. See Figure 1. The metal portions of the apparatus are conducting, and confine a current due to electronic motion to within the metal boundaries. All electrons that move in a magnetic field experience a Lorentz force of , where v is the velocity of the electrons relative to the frame where measurements are taken, and \"q\" is the charge on an electron. Remember, there is no such frame as \"frame of the electromagnetic field\". A frame is set on a specific spacetime point, not an extending field or a flux line as a mathematical object. It is a different issue if you consider flux as a physical entity (see Magnetic flux quantum), or consider the effective/relative definition of motion/rotation of a field (see below). This note helps resolve the paradox.\n\nThe Lorentz force is perpendicular to both the velocity of the electrons, which is in the plane of the disc, and to the magnetic field, which is normal (surface normal) to the disc. An electron at rest in the frame of the disc moves circularly with the disc relative to the B-field (i.e. the rotational axis or the laboratory frame, remember the note above), and so experiences a radial Lorentz force. In Figure 1 this force (on a \"positive\" charge, not an electron) is outward toward the rim according to the right-hand rule.\n\nOf course, this radial force, which is the cause of the current, creates a radial component of electron velocity, generating in turn its own Lorentz force component that opposes the circular motion of the electrons, tending to slow the disc's rotation, but the electrons retain a component of circular motion that continues to drive the current via the radial Lorentz force.\n\nThe flux through the portion of the path from the brush at the rim, through the outside loop and the axle to the center of the disc is always zero because the magnetic field is in the plane of this path (not perpendicular to it), no matter what is rotating, so the integrated emf around this part of the path is always zero. Therefore, attention is focused on the portion of the path from the axle across the disc to the brush at the rim.\n\nFaraday's law of induction can be stated in words as: \n\nwhere Φ is the flux, and \"d\"A is a vector element of area of a moving surface Σ(\"t\") bounded by the loop around which the EMF is to be found.\nHow can this law be connected to the Faraday disc generator, where the flux linkage appears to be just the B-field multiplied by the area of the disc?\n\nOne approach is to define the notion of \"rate of change of flux linkage\" by drawing a hypothetical line across the disc from the brush to the axle and asking how much flux linkage is swept past this line per unit time. See Figure 2. Assuming a radius \"R\" for the disc, a sector of disc with central angle \"θ\" has an area:\n\nso the rate that flux sweeps past the imaginary line is\n\nwith \"ω\" = \"dθ\" / \"dt\" the angular rate of rotation. The sign is chosen based upon Lenz's law: the field generated by the motion must oppose the change in flux caused by the rotation. For example, the circuit with the radial segment in Figure 2 according to the right-hand rule \"adds\" to the applied B-field, tending to increase the flux linkage. That suggests that the flux through this path is decreasing due to the rotation, so \"dθ\" / \"dt \" is negative.\n\nThis flux-cutting result for EMF can be compared to calculating the work done per unit charge making an infinitesimal test charge traverse the hypothetical line using the Lorentz force / unit charge at radius \"r\", namely = \"Bv\" = \"Brω\":\n\nwhich is the same result.\n\nThe above methodology for finding the flux cut by the circuit is formalized in the flux law by properly treating the time derivative of the bounding surface Σ(\"t\"). Of course, the time derivative of an integral with time dependent limits is \"not\" simply the time derivative of the integrand alone, a point often forgotten; see Leibniz integral rule and Lorentz force.\n\nIn choosing the surface Σ(\"t\"), the restrictions are that (i) it has to be bounded by a closed curve around which the EMF is to be found, and (ii) it has to capture the relative motion of all moving parts of the circuit. It is emphatically \"not\" required that the bounding curve corresponds to a physical line of flow of the current. On the other hand, induction is all about relative motion, and the path emphatically \"must\" capture any relative motion. In a case like Figure 1 where a portion of the current path is distributed over a region in space, the EMF driving the current can be found using a variety of paths. Figure 2 shows two possibilities. All paths include the obvious return loop, but in the disc two paths are shown: one is a geometrically simple path, the other a tortuous one. We are free to choose whatever path we like, but a portion of any acceptable path is \"fixed in the disc itself\" and turns with the disc. The flux is calculated though the entire path, return loop \"plus\" disc segment, and its rate-of change found.\nIn this example, all these paths lead to the same rate of change of flux, and hence the same EMF. To provide some intuition about this path independence, in Figure 3 the Faraday disc is unwrapped onto a strip, making it resemble a sliding rectangle problem. In the sliding rectangle case, it becomes obvious that the pattern of current flow inside the rectangle is time-independent and therefore irrelevant to the rate of change of flux linking the circuit. There is no need to consider exactly how the current traverses the rectangle (or the disc). Any choice of path connecting the top and bottom of the rectangle (axle-to-brush in the disc) and moving with the rectangle (rotating with the disc) sweeps out the same rate-of-change of flux, and predicts the same EMF. For the disc, this rate-of-change of flux estimation is the same as that done above based upon rotation of the disc past a line joining the brush to the axle.\n\nWhether the magnet is \"moving\" is irrelevant in this analysis, due the flux induced in the return path. The crucial relative motion is that of the disk and the return path, not of the disk and the magnet. This becomes clearer if a modified Faraday disk is used in which the return path is not a wire but another disk. That is, mount two conducting disks just next to each other on the same axle and let them have sliding electrical contact at the center and at the circumference. The current will be proportional to the relative rotation of the two disks and independent of any rotation of the magnet.\n\nA Faraday disk can also be operated with neither a galvanometer nor a return path. When the disk spins, the electrons collect along the rim and leave a deficit near the axis (or the other way around). It is possible in principle to measure the distribution of charge, for example, through the electromotive force generated between the rim and the axle (though not necessarily easy). This charge separation will be proportional to the relative rotational velocity between the disk and the magnet.\n\nThese paradoxes are generally resolved by determining that the apparent motion of the circuit is actually deconstruction of the circuit followed by reconstruction of the circuit on a different path.\n\nIn the case when the disk alone spins there is no change in flux through the circuit, however, there is an electromotive force induced contrary to Faraday's law. We can also show an example when there is a change in flux, but no induced voltage. Figure 5 (near right) shows the setup used in Tilley's experiment. It is a circuit with two loops or meshes. There is a galvanometer connected in the right-hand loop, a magnet in the center of the left-hand loop, a switch in the left-hand loop, and a switch between the loops. We start with the switch on the left open and that on the right closed. When the switch on the left is closed and the switch on the right is open there is no change in the field of the magnet, but there is a change in the area of the galvanometer circuit. This means that there is a change in flux. However the galvanometer did not deflect meaning there was no induced voltage, and Faraday's law does not work in this case. According to A. G. Kelly this suggests that an induced voltage in Faraday's experiment is due to the \"cutting\" of the circuit by the flux lines, and not by \"flux linking\" or the actual change in flux. This follows from the Tilley experiment because there is no movement of the lines of force across the circuit and therefore no current induced although there is a change in flux through the circuit. Nussbaum suggests that for Faraday's law to be valid, work must be done in producing the change in flux.\n<br>To understand this idea, we will step through the argument given by Nussbaum. We start by calculating the force between two current carrying wires. The force on wire 1 due to wire 2 is given by:\n\nThe magnetic field from the second wire is given by:<br>\nSo we can rewrite the force on wire 1 as:<br>\nNow consider a segment formula_17 of a conductor displaced formula_18 in a constant magnetic field. The work done is found from:<br>\nIf we plug in what we previously found for formula_20 we get:\nThe area covered by the displacement of the conductor is:\nTherefore:<br>\nThe differential work can also be given in terms of charge formula_24 and potential difference formula_25:<br>\nBy setting the two equations for differential work equal to each other we arrive at Faraday's Law.<br>\nFurthermore, we now see that this is only true if formula_28 is non-vanishing. Meaning, Faraday's Law is only valid if work is performed in bringing about the change in flux.\n\nA mathematical way to validate Faraday's Law in these kind of situations is to generalize the definition of EMF as in the proof of Faraday's law of induction:\n\nThe galvanometer usually only measures the first term in the EMF which contributes the current in circuit, although sometimes it can measure the incorporation of the second term such as when the second term contributes part of the current which the galvanometer measures as motional EMF, e.g. in the Faraday's disk experiment. In the situation above, the first term is zero and only the first term leads a current that the galvanometer measures, so there is no induced voltage. However, Faraday's Law still holds since the apparent change of the magnetic flux goes to the second term in the above generalization of EMF. But it is not measured by the galvanometer. Remember formula_30 is the local velocity of a point on the circuit, not a charge carrier. After all, both/all these situations are consistent with the concern of relativity and microstructure of matter, and/or the completeness of Maxwell equation and Lorentz formula, or the combination of them, Hamiltonian mechanics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120356", "title": "Richard E. Berendzen", "text": "Richard E. Berendzen\n\nRichard Earl Berendzen (born September 6, 1938) is an American scientist. As president of American University in the 1980s, Berendzen drastically raised the prestige of the university through a relentless public campaign. Before he was forced to resign in disgrace in the 1990s, American University saw a fourfold increase in its endowment and the Board of Trustees became the wealthiest in the nation. Berendzen served another thirteen years as professor of astronomy at AU before retiring from academia completely in 2006.\n\nBerendzen was born in Walters, Oklahoma on September 6, 1938.\n\nWhen he was 4 years old, his mother, June, made the decision to move the family to Portland, Oregon. Shortly after arriving, he was struck with rheumatic fever and asthma. As a result, Brendzen was mostly confined to his room with temperatures between 100 and 103 degrees. During this time period, he wrote sometime later, his mother was his primary companion and caregiver. Those days were spent listening to the radio, watching the neighborhood kids play in the front yard from the living room couch, or listening to his mother's stories.\n\nWhen it became clear at the age of seven that Berendzen was not going to get any better, a pediatrician suggested that his parents take the boy to a warmer, dryer climate. Following this advice, June and Earl Berendzen moved with their son to Dallas, Texas where Earl got a job managing his parent's hardware store.\n\nIn the new climate Berendzen's health improved markedly, so much so that he was finally able to leave his room and begin living a normal life. In Dallas he found the stars. That first summer he would lie on his back at night and stare up at the sky wondering if the Universe had a boundary? Were there other intelligent beings in the galaxy? When asked neither of his parents had any answers.\n\nThat first year in school marked the start of something darker in Berendzen's life. For as long as he knew her, Berendzen's mother had been struggling with psychological illness. \"She was wildly unpredictable. Labels like manic, paranoid, delusional and psychotic came years later. Sometimes she would be furious for no apparent reason; then, in a snap, she could suddenly become incredibly loving, supportive and fun.” Because of her unpredictable mood swings, his parents fought constantly. The more they fought, the more his father Earl withdrew from the family, leaving Richard completely in his mother's control. As the family looked at the prospect of their son spending more time away from the household, June responded by exerting even more influence. She began drilling him on proper etiquette and dictating everything her son ate and wore in an attempt to mold him into the person she thought he should be. \n\nThe control culminated, according to Berendzen in his book \"Come Here\", with June Berendzen sexually abusing her son for the first time at the beginning of his grade school career. The bouts of unexplained mania and anger in the midst of four years of sexual abuse that inexplicably ended as quickly as it started left the boy reeling. Outwardly Berendzen had been a \"walking false advertisement for the family's normalcy,\" but inside he was in turmoil. To get away from questions he had no answers to he made the decision to \"work terribly hard,\" because \"if you work very hard, somehow you don't remember.\" \n\nBefore Berendzen entered high school, his increasingly unstable mother was committed to a psychiatric institution. Even after treatment she remained obsessed with her son following him to Boston, Massachusetts and Washington D.C. in later years of his life.\n\nWhen Berendzen entered school in the second grade, he felt like he was far behind the rest of his peers. To catch up, Berendzen resolved to work as hard as he could. Not only did he meet the rest of his class academically, he went on to getting A's and Honors throughout his time in grade school. This intensive work ethic translated into a scholarship to Southern Methodist University (SMU). Berendzen had met and fallen in love with Barbara Edwards in their time together at Woodrow Wilson High School in Dallas. Barbara became pregnant with their first child and the two married just after graduation.\n\nThe SMU interviewer asked Berendzen what he wanted to major in. Berendzen responded by asking him what the hardest subject was. Thus Berendzen entered SMU a married man with one child on the way seeking a degree in physics. Berendzen's first daughter Deborah was born that year.\n\nBerendzen was going to school full-time and working part-time at his grandparent's hardware store and at the library, while trying to raise a family. When someone he knew suggested that MIT had the hardest physics program in the nation, Berendzen approximated the MIT course load to see if he could handle it and applied to join the university in his sophomore year when his GPA stayed at an acceptable level.\n\nApproaching MIT as a new undergraduate student from a lower income background was an extreme culture shock. So much so that Berendzen vowed to work twice as hard as anyone else. The long stretches of time apart and the days of constant work drove a wedge into his marriage, and Barbara left just before the end of Berendzen's Junior year at MIT going back to Dallas with their daughter. He was so distraught by the events, that he put off his finals and delayed graduating for a year.\n\nAt the end of the break, Berendzen took and passed his exams and was admitted into Harvard as a graduate student seeking first a master's degree in astronomy followed by a PhD. It was at Harvard that Berendzen discovered his love of teaching, first as a teaching assistant for Carl Sagan and later as a teaching assistant for professor William Liller. He engaged in so much teaching that Berendzen jeopardized his PhD in physics. Eventually, he graduated in 1967 earning a dual astronomy and teaching PhD by publishing a 930-page dissertation to answer the question, \"Why do people become astronomers?\" Berendzen was 29 years old.\n\nAt Harvard, Berendzen also met Gail Edgar. After a year of dating, Berendzen asked her to marry him in 1964. The couple held their engagement party at Harvard Observatory.\n\nJoining the physics and astronomy faculty at Boston University, Berendzen became acting astronomy department chairman when Dr. Papagiannis went on sabbatical from 1971-72.\n\nTwo years later he spent his own sabbatical leave doing research at the National Academy of Sciences, American Council on Education, and Library of Congress. Instead of returning to Boston University, Berendzen was hired on at American University in Washington, D.C., as a professor and dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. It was in this time period that Gail gave birth to Berendzen's second daughter, Natasha.\n\nAs Dean, Berendzen turned down a number of faculty promotions and tenure applications in an attempt to get the department's budget under control. This was controversial and increased the ire of the faculty. Before a meeting with seething faculty members, he famously sent an assistant dean into the room first to announce, \"The dean will join you and attempt to defend himself.\" Berendzen entered wearing a full suit of Medieval armor.\n\nThe University appointed him provost, American's chief academic officer, in 1976. In that role he introduced a core curriculum, tightened the university's admission standards, and enhanced the honors program. As a result, American University began to attract a much higher caliber of student. In 1980 Berendzen became AU's eleventh president. He was 42 years old.\n\n”My job [as President],” Berendzen once said, “is to tap the unique resources of this city and to get to know the power leaders of Washington who can be beneficial to the university.” His wife Gail joined as second in command, leaving her own job. The couple moved into the traditional home of American University's president and enclosed a sun room so that they could install a large dining table and hold multiple parties at home. Berendzen's book \"Is My Armor Straight? A Year in the Life of a University President,\" written based on a set of journals he kept from 1982–83, reads like a \"who's who\" of Washington elite. The Berendzens spent their nights traveling from party to party meeting celebrities, dignitaries, kings, queens, and other royalty, as well as presidents, cabinet members and other political officials. On average, Berendzen hit eleven social functions, worked seven days a week, and got 3–4 hours of sleep at night in his drive to bring both resources and people into the University.\n\nHe also joined dozens of professional groups, boards of directors, commissions, social groups, and committees. He talked to everyone who would listen making at least 268 television and radio appearances between January 1980 and May 1985. He was a local celebrity appearing on local television and radio programs no fewer than 400 times. Berendzen's resume of this time drastically expanded from 45 pages in 1980 to more than 150 pages in 1990.\n\nBerendzen's tenure as president was not without controversy. Saudi businessman Adnan Khashoggi pledged $5 million toward the construction of a new set of buildings meant to house an arena and administrative offices. He was appointed to the board shortly after the announcement and the Center was named the Adnan Khashoggi Sports and Convocation Center. This was despite the fact that Adnan was a key intermediary in the Reagan Administration's deal with Iran to trade arms for money in the Iran–Contra affair.\n\nKhashoggi only attended one meeting of the board of trustees, nevertheless he was reappointed once. He was removed from the board after Switzerland jailed him on charges of fraud and racketeering for allegedly helping Ferdinand Marcos funnel millions of dollars out of the Philippines. Khashoggi served no jail time, but the legal troubles cut deeply into his wealth. He stopped making payments toward the $5 million pledge and his name was removed from American University altogether in the 1990s.\n\nIn 1989 Berendzen's father Earl died, so he flew home to help his mother plan the funeral. When he entered the middle room of his parents' home, Berendzen would later recount, long buried memories of abuse began to resurface. After he returned to Washington it was clear to those who knew him that something was wrong. He brushed off those concerns and kept working harder and harder while also becoming increasingly paranoid going so far as to order one way glass for his office windows.\n\nSusan Allen placed an ad for her daycare in the \"Washington Post\" in March 1990. On the 23rd, she received the first obscene phone call. The calls were of a significantly depraved nature that included violent fantasies of sex with children and made claims of buying children for sex and boasted of a large child pornography collection. She decided to play along, but reported the incident to her husband who worked with the Fairfax County Criminal Investigation Bureau. The conversations, says Allen, \"[Were] filthy beyond your most horrible nightmares.\"\n\nThe calls were eventually traced to the American University campus. The police notified the university, and American's Telecommunications office wrote new software that traced the calls to Berenzden's private phone line. In April 7, University lawyers and the chairman of the Board of Trustees, Edward Carr, confronted Berendzen who tendered his resignation to the rest of the board on April 8. Berendzen issued a public statement on April 10 that cited \"exhaustion\" as the reason behind his decision to step down. Shortly after that he checked himself into the Johns Hopkins psychiatric clinic seeking treatment.\n\nBerendzen was eventually charged with two misdemeanor counts of making obscene calls over the telephone. He pled guilty to both but received no jail time on the condition that he continue receiving psychiatric treatment for the next year.\n\nAt Johns Hopkins, Berendzen slowly began talking about his memories of childhood abuse. The doctor in charge of his case, Paul McHugh, said in an interview after the fact that Berendzen had been suffering from post-traumatic stress. The phone calls were an attempt to understand and to bring resolution to those memories of abuse. Richard and Gail moved back to Virginia where he used the next three years to write a book addressing both the phone calls and his experiences as a victim of child molestation.\n\nSusan Allen, the woman who'd kept Berendzen on the phone while the police traced the calls, had herself been a victim of rape. Given that history and a fear of reprisal from Berendzen, she'd changed her hair color, started attending therapy sessions, and was unable to work. Upset of the lack of punishment and at American University's decision to hold off on releasing information about the calls to the police for two days, Allen filed a lawsuit seeking damages of $7 million against the University and $4 million against Berendzen. Initially the lawsuit was dismissed by a court in Washington, but after she announced her intention to appeal, the case was settled for an undisclosed sum.\n\nBerendzen had not worked for three years, but he was still listed as a tenured member of the faculty at American University. Some estimates put the amount to buy out the rest of his contract at $1 million, a cost that student, faculty, and staff at the University were loath to spend. Richard approached the Board of Trustees about going back to AU as a member of the regular faculty. The University agreed and he served in that role until he retired in August 2006 as Professor Emeritus of Physics.\n\nBerendzen believes that science fact, if presented well, can be far more engaging than science fiction. He is a proponent of the scientific search for extraterrestrial life (SETI). He feels that there is a tremendous need to make more people aware of the difference between real science and blatant pseudoscience, going so far in his teaching career to lecture his students wearing a wizards robe and pointy hat on the difference between astrology and astronomy. Also, he is active in efforts to increase educational opportunities for girls and minorities, especially to educate them better in science and technology.\n\nWhen Berendzen took over American University as President, the University had a small endowment, and a poor reputation. In the ten years of his tenure, American established an Office of Minority Affairs, built a new residence hall, and established another campus. The General Education Program and Honors Program took shape and became key features. University-wide awards to faculty, students, and staff became an annual, distinguished tradition. Additionally, Berendzen campaigned against grade inflation, eliminated failing departments while expanding others, and the University brought back formal requirements including mandatory exams for students while raising admission standards.\n\nInitially the size of the incoming freshman class contracted and the University laid off professors and teachers to compensate. However, with Berendzen's relentless campaigning to raise the profile of American, that trend quickly reversed and the average SAT scores of incoming students rose 200 points by the time he left. At the same time Berendzen was able to convince enough wealthy Washingtonians to join the Board of Trustees that it became the wealthiest board in the country which resulted in a fourfold increase of American's endowment to $20 million.\n\nBeyond Berendzen's activities as American's president, two mayors of Washington, D.C., appointed him to chair the Commission on the Budget and Financial Priorities of the District of Columbia, an analysis and report to the mayors, the D.C. City Council, and the U.S. Congress . Berendzen also chaired the American Council on Education's Committee on Foreign Student Policy, served on the boards of the American Astronautical Society, the American Association of Colleges, the Planetary Society, and the advisory board for the National Center for the Survivors of Child Abuse. He was a consultant to NASA, served on NASA's Exploration Advisory Task Force and Selection Panel for the Teacher-in-Space Program, has served as Director of NASA's Space Grant Consortium for Washington, D.C.., and has testified about space and education before the United States Congress.\n\nUnder the auspices of the New York Academy of Sciences and the American Astronomical Society, Berendzen organized and chaired a major international conference, titled \"Education in and History of Modern Astronomy\". With NASA support, he organized and chaired two other key conferences: \"Life Beyond Earth and the Mind of Man\" (at Boston University) and \"Space 2000\" (at American University). Proceedings of the Boston University conference were published by NASA (sp-318), and video of it became the core of a TV program narrated by Orson Welles, \"Who's Out There?\" (1973). Through a joint venture of the US National Archives and Google, the digital video is part of the Archives' free online collection.\n\nHe has been a commentator about science and education on WUSA-TV and WTOP radio (Washington, D.C.) and NBC (network), and a guest on numerous other radio and TV programs. By April 1990, Berendzen had given over 1,200 invited lectures. The Committee for Skeptical Inquiry (CSICOP) also presented Berendzen with the \"Public Education in Science\" Award that year. The International Platform Association gave him the Glenn T. Seaborg Award for \"Contributions to the American Public's Interest in Science,\" and he has been awarded a number of honorary doctorate degrees.\n\nFinally, Berendzen narrated Mike Cahill's 2011 sci-fi feature film \"Another Earth\".\n\nBerendzen has written several books and 40 articles in scholarly journals.\n"}
{"id": "2120367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120367", "title": "Beppe Severgnini", "text": "Beppe Severgnini\n\nGiuseppe Severgnini, (born 26 December 1956), known as Beppe Severgnini (), is an Italian journalist, essayist and columnist.\n\nBorn in Crema, Severgnini graduated in law at the University of Pavia. His father is a retired notary.\nHis career in journalism began when, aged 27, he joined the Milan daily newspaper \"Il Giornale\", headed by Italian journalist Indro Montanelli; he soon distinguished himself as a talented writer and became the paper's London correspondent.\n\nFor \"Il Giornale\", in the period leading up to the fall of communism, he worked as special correspondent from Russia, China and several Eastern European countries. \nWhen Montanelli left \"Il Giornale\" to found \"La Voce\", Severgnini followed him.\nHe was also seconded to \"The Economist\" in London (1993) then served as correspondent for \"La Voce\" from Washington.\n\nHe was a correspondent from Italy for \"The Economist\" between 1996 and 2003, for which he still occasionally writes.\n\nFollowing the failure of Montanelli's project at \"La Voce\", in 1995 Severgnini joined the \"Corriere della Sera\", Italy's biggest newspaper, for which he currently is an op-ed columnist. \nSince 1998, he hosts a daily column for the online edition of the \"Corriere della Sera\" called \"Italians\", originally targeting Italian expatriates; it has steadily grown in popularity since, eventually becoming one of the most read regular features of the newspaper's website.\n\nAn enthusiastic soccer fan, he also wrote for the popular sports newspaper \"La Gazzetta dello Sport\" from 2001 to 2011.\n\nSevergnini appears regularly on radio and TV programs, on RAI, NPR and the BBC, and was the host of a talk show on SKY TG24 from 2004 to 2011.\n\nBeppe Severgnini taught at the Walter Tobagi graduate School of Journalism at the University of Milan (2009–2012). He has been a research fellow/writer in residence at MIT/Massachusetts Institute of Technology (2009) and a visiting fellow at Ca’ Foscari Venezia (2013); he has taught also at Middlebury College Vermont (2006), and at the universities of Milan-Bocconi (2003 and 2006), Parma (1998) and Pavia (2002), which elected him ‘Alumnus of the Year’ in 1998 and 2011.\n\nBeppe Severgnini was made Officer of the Order of the British Empire in 2001 by Queen Elizabeth II. He was also made \"Commendatore\" of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic by President Giorgio Napolitano in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120369", "title": "Martin Rathke", "text": "Martin Rathke\n\nMartin Heinrich Rathke (August 25, 1793, Danzig – September 3, 1860, Königsberg) was a German embryologist and anatomist. Along with Karl Ernst von Baer and Christian Heinrich Pander, he is recognized as one of the founders of modern embryology. He was the father of chemist Bernhard Rathke (1840–1923).\n\nHe studied medicine and natural history at the University of Göttingen, later relocating to Berlin, where he received his doctorate in medicine (1818). In 1828 he was named professor of physiology, pathology and semiotics at the University of Dorpat. In 1832/33 he undertook research expeditions to Finland and to the Crimea. Rathke was a professor of zoology and anatomy at Königsberg from 1835 to 1860. In 1839, while based in Königsberg, he travelled to Scandinavia, where he conducted studies of marine organisms.\n\nHe studied marine organisms and the embryonic development of sex organs. He was the first to describe the brachial clefts and gill arches in the embryos of mammals and birds. He also first described in 1839 the embryonic structure, now known as Rathke's pouch, from which the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland develops. \n\nHe was the first to discover that the amphioxus was a separate taxa, and not the larvae of a mollusk, as previously thought. He was the author of several writings on crustaceans, mollusks and worms, and also the author of works on vertebrates, such as the lemming and various reptiles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120373", "title": "X-Mansion", "text": "X-Mansion\n\nThe X-Mansion or Xavier Institute is the common name for a mansion appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The mansion is depicted as the private estate of Charles Francis Xavier, a character in X-Men comics. It serves as the base of operations and training site of the X-Men. It is also the location of an accredited private school for mutant children, teenagers, and sometimes older aged mutants, the Xavier Institute for Higher Learning, formerly the Xavier School for Gifted Youngsters. The X-Mansion is also the worldwide headquarters of the X-Corporation.\n\nThe X-Mansion's address is 1407 Graymalkin Lane, Salem Center, located in Westchester County, New York. The school's motto is \"mutatis mutandis.\" In a recent edition of the comic, Wolverine re-opened the school, at the same address, under the name of the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning. After it was discovered that the Terrigen Cloud had become toxic to mutants enough to have them die from M-Pox, Storm had the mansion moved to Limbo and renamed it X-Haven to keep mutants safe from the Terrigen until a cure could be discovered. After Medusa destroys the Terrigen Cloud so the mutants could survive, Kitty Pryde moves the mansion from Limbo to Central Park, New York, and renames it the Xavier Institute for Mutant Education and Outreach.\n\nThe X-Mansion is the inherited property of Charles Xavier (Professor X) and has been in the Xavier family for ten generations including two known mutants in the lineage, both becoming detached from the family. Little else is known about them or their mutations.\n\nAs Xavier's School for Gifted Youngsters, the X-Mansion was the training site of the first two generations of teenage X-Men:\n\n\nIn #38 (November 1994), the X-Mansion was renamed from Xavier's School for Gifted Youngsters to the Xavier Institute for Higher Learning, as most of the X-Men were adults rather than teenagers by this time. Xavier's School for Gifted Youngsters was relocated to the Massachusetts Academy in Western Massachusetts (a Marvel created town or region called \"Snow Valley\" somewhere in The Berkshires), which served as the training site of the third generation of teenage X-Men beginning in \"Generation X\" #1 (November 1994).\n\n\nThe Massachusetts Academy closes permanently in \"Generation X\" #75 (June 2001). Shortly thereafter, the school for young mutants is reopened at the X-Mansion, but the name remains \"The Xavier Institute for Higher Learning\" despite the younger student body. The fourth generation of mutant teenagers, featured in Grant Morrison's \"New X-Men\" (2001–2004) and in \"New Mutants\" (2003–2004; relaunched as \"New X-Men: Academy X\", July 2004 – February 2008), study at the mansion until it is destroyed during the 2007–2008 story \"Messiah Complex\" and the X-Men subsequently disband and close the Institute.\n\nThough protected by high-tech defenses, the X-Mansion has often been breached by the supervillains and evil mutants faced by the X-Men. Indeed, the X-Mansion has been destroyed and rebuilt several times. It was demolished in a battle with the Sidri in \"Uncanny X-Men\" #154 (February 1982) and atomized by Mister Sinister in \"Uncanny X-Men\" #243 (April 1989). It was rebuilt by a future Franklin Richards in moments but reverted to its destroyed state after the time-traveler became confused.\n\nCertain portions of the mansion, such as extensive sub-basements, survived both demolitions. When Onslaught revealed himself and fought the X-Men (\"X-Men\" v2 #54 (June 1996) and \"Onslaught: X-Men\"), the mansion took heavy damage, though was quickly repaired in-between issues after the \"Onslaught\" storyline. In , Bastion forced Jubilee to reveal the mansion's defenses. He then stripped down the mansion, having everything inside the mansion removed, even down to the paint on the walls. After defeating Bastion, the X-Men moved back into the mansion, as detailed in \"X-Men\" v2 #70 (November 1997). The X-Mansion survived an assault by the Shi'ar Imperial Guard in \"New X-Men\" #122–126 (March–July 2002) as well as a riot by students led by Quentin Quire in \"New X-Men\" #134–138 (January–May 2003). In the Planet X storyline of \"New X-Men\" #146–150, however, the X-Mansion was destroyed; the rebuilding process could be seen in \"New X-Men\" #155–156 (June 2004). In the wake of M-Day the mansion was infiltrated by followers of the Reverend William Stryker in an attempt to wipe out the students, resulting in some structural damage and several casualties. Then the mansion was severely damaged when the Danger Room became sentient and summoned local machinery to attack the structure. The mansion was also damaged when Mr. Sinister's new team of Marauders attacked the mansion. A fight between the Hulk and several mutants heavily damaged the mansion. In the Messiah Complex storyline, the mansion was completely destroyed by attacking Sentinels.\n\nUnlike past times, the mansion was not rebuilt for a considerable length of time. Rather, the X-Men and their students relocated to a new base of operations in San Francisco. Under the name Graymalkin Industries, the new X-base is not run as a school, but rather as a sort of community center for mutants who wish to develop their powers.\n\n\nAfter the events of \"X-Men: Schism\", Wolverine and half of the X-Men return to Westchester, New York and the X-Mansion. The name of the school is now the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning. Its grounds are in fact a spawn of Krakoa the Living Island. In the first issue of Wolverine and the X-Men an entirely new school is built on the grounds. It is funded mainly with scientific advancements by the students and diamonds from Krakoa.\n\n\nAfter Wolverine dies in the \"Death of Wolverine\" storyline, Spider-Man becomes a Guidance Counselor in the series \"Spider-Man and the X-Men\".\n\nUnder the All-New, All-Different Marvel re-branding, X-Haven was a sanctuary founded by Storm and her Extraordinary X-Men to protect mutants from the Terrigen Mist. The Jean Grey School for Higher Learning was temporarily teleported to a pocket dimension within Limbo with the help of Doctor Strange, the Scarlet Witch, and Wiccan. It also has magical defenses created by Magik to keep the Demons away.\n\nFollowing the War between the Inhumans and mutants which resulted in the destruction of the remaining Terrigen Cloud, Kitty Pryde, now the new Headmistress of the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning had Magik teleport the school back to Earth, more precisely to Central Park, New York City and renames it as the Xavier Institute for Mutant Education and Outreach. It was demolished after the events of \"Extermination\".\n\nIn the middle of the main courtyard is the Phoenix Memorial Statue, dedicated to the memory of Jean Grey. Notable rooms include the Danger Room and a room containing Cerebro. The Headmasters Office of Cyclops and Emma Frost is on the top floor.\n\nThe basketball court is a popular hang-out. It was the site of a basketball game in \"X-Men\" vol. 2 #4 (January 1992) in which the X-Men used their mutant powers. Directly below the basketball court is the hangar, which houses many transportation vehicles, as well as aircraft such as the X-Men Blackbird.\n\nThere is also a cemetery with memorials for deceased X-Men like Thunderbird and others.\n\nIn the \"Age of Apocalypse\" reality, the remains of the X-Mansion were the headquarters for a mutant resistance cell against Apocalypse – a mutant that had conquered North America. The Mansion survives, and many new mutants come to the School in hope of shelter.\n\nIn the darker continuity of \"Mutant X\", the X-Mansion is run by Magneto, who had long ago taken up Professor X's dream. The mansion is vaporized in a nuclear explosion.\n\nIn issue #2, the X-Mansion is shown to be an orphanage for troubled kids that is run by Professor X and the teachers include Storm and Beast. Some of the orphans include kid versions of Deadpool, Scott Summers, Wolverine, Angel, and Colossus.\n\nIn the Ultimate Marvel universe, the X-Mansion does not differ much. However, it is not entirely funded by inheritance. Though the school originally was funded from Magneto's inheritance, allowing them to neither accept nor seek out donations. Its policies have since changed after Magneto's departure and Xavier's subsequent control over the facility. Later, the students question and ridicule the unlikeliness of the facility simply being funded by inheritance. It is then revealed that numerous donors fund Xavier's projects and remain anonymous due to heavy anti-mutant sentiments present in public opinion. One of the biggest donors was the Hellfire Club, who were revealed to have an ulterior motive for doing so. In Xavier's conversation with Lilandra Neramani, it's discovered that S.H.I.E.L.D. were former financiers before their falling out with Xavier; it is unknown what their intentions were. The Church of the Shi'ar have become major investors.\n\nThe school's location is concealed by a projected image of a Jehovah's Witness chapter, as revealed in \"Ultimate X-Men\" #1.\n\nThe mansion is purposely demolished by Iceman in \"Ultimate Requiem\" following the events of the \"Ultimatum\" storyline. This is because the team had been devastated by Magneto's attack and the survivors were going on the run.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120384", "title": "Michael de la Pole", "text": "Michael de la Pole\n\nMichael de la Pole may refer to: \n\n"}
{"id": "2120385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120385", "title": "Rathke", "text": "Rathke\n\nRathke may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2120388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120388", "title": "New York's 29th congressional district", "text": "New York's 29th congressional district\n\nThe Twenty-ninth district of New York is an obsolete congressional district for the United States House of Representatives which most recently included a portion of the Appalachian mountains in New York known as the \"Southern Tier.\" It was most recently represented by Tom Reed. This district number became obsolete for the 113th Congress in 2013 as a result of the 2010 Census. Most of the former 29th district remained intact and was to be renumbered as the 23rd district.\n\nThe 29th district was centered in Buffalo and Niagara Falls in the 1990s (represented by John LaFalce); that district was dismantled and parceled out to the present 27th and 28th Districts. In the 1980s this district was centered in suburban Rochester. During the 1970s the district was congruent to the present upper Hudson Valley 20th District.\n\nThe far southern tier district was numbered the 31st District in the 1990s and the 34th District in the 1980s, when Amo Houghton represented it. During the 1970s this area was primarily in the 39th District. Prior versions of this district included Chautauqua county; suburban Rochester had never been in a southern tier district until the 2002 remap. The result was that the district changed from a \"packed\" Republican district to a \"cracked\" district. The 2008 elections reversed the crack, meaning that the heavily Democratic and suburban Monroe County votes were able to swing the district in their favor, leaving most of the rest of the expansive district out of influence, though not without help from an unexplained vote shift in Cattaraugus County. Former Corning Mayor Tom Reed, a Republican, was sworn in on Nov. 18, 2010 to fill out the term of Democrat Eric Massa, who resigned. Reed was elected to a full two-year term in the 112th Congress.\n1913–1945:\n\n1945–1953:\n\n1953–1963:\n\n1963–1969:\n\n1969–1971:\n\n1971–1973:\n\n1973–1983:\n\n1983–1993:\n\n1993–2003:\n\n2003–2013:\n\nFollowing are the results of the elections of 1996 through 2008.\n\nIn New York State electoral politics there are numerous minor parties at various points on the political spectrum. Certain parties will invariably endorse either the Republican or Democratic candidate for every office. Therefore, the state electoral results contain both the party votes, and the final candidate votes (Listed as \"Recap\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120390", "title": "Kay Adams-Corleone", "text": "Kay Adams-Corleone\n\nKatherine \"Kay\" Corleone (née Adams) is a fictional character in Mario Puzo's 1969 novel \"The Godfather\". She was portrayed by Diane Keaton in Francis Ford Coppola's trilogy of films based on the novel.\n\nKay is a native of Hanover, New Hampshire, and the only child of a Baptist minister and his wife. She is also the longtime girlfriend and eventual second wife of Michael Corleone (Al Pacino), the youngest son of Don Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando), the head of the Corleone crime family.\n\nIn 1945, while attending Dartmouth College, Kay meets and falls in love with Michael, also a student there. As a non-Italian, she is an outsider to the Corleones' world, and embodies Michael's initial desire to live a life separate from his family's. When she and Michael attend the wedding of his sister, Connie (Talia Shire), they sit at a table away from the family. In the novel, the other guests notice how Kay's manner is more laid-back than expected from an unmarried woman.\n\nKay is initially unaware that the Corleones are a powerful Mafia family. When the famous singer Johnny Fontane (Al Martino) arrives at Connie's wedding reception, Kay, a fan, is surprised that Michael knows him, then frightened when he relates how his father \"helped\" his godson Johnny's early career by threatening to kill his manager unless he released Fontane from his contract.\n\nAfter a failed assassination attempt on his father, Michael murders the culprit, drug lord Virgil Sollozzo (Al Lettieri), and Captain Mark McCluskey (Sterling Hayden) a corrupt NYPD officer on Sollozzo's payroll. Michael flees to Sicily, where he falls in love with and marries a young local woman, Apollonia Vitelli (Simonetta Stefanelli). Kay has no knowledge of Michael's whereabouts or his marriage, and eventually returns to her hometown to work as a teacher. She asks the Corleone family's \"consigliere\" Tom Hagen (Robert Duvall) to deliver a letter to Michael, but Hagen refuses lest it be used in court proceedings as proof the family had \"knowledge of his whereabouts\". During this time, Kay develops a friendship with Michael's mother, Carmela (Morgana King).\n\nApollonia is killed in a car bombing meant for Michael. After recovering from his injuries, Michael returns to the United States. More than a year following his return, Michael seeks out Kay, wanting to reconcile with her, although she is upset that he now works for his father. They marry after he promises her the Corleone family will be completely legitimate within five years. \n\nKay and Michael have two children, Anthony and Mary. (In the novel, they have two boys.) They are born within two years of each other, leading Michael to joke that Kay is \"more Italian than Yankee\". Kay retorts that Michael is \"more Yankee than Italian\", because he always takes his work home with him. \n\nMichael becomes Don in 1955, after Vito's death. His first act is to order the assassinations of the Dons of the other Five Families and Connie's abusive husband Carlo Rizzi (Gianni Russo), who had participated in a plot to murder Vito's eldest son Sonny eight years before. When a grieving Connie accuses Michael of orchestrating Carlo's murder, Kay asks Michael if it is true. Michael denies any involvement. However, immediately afterward, Kay observes Michael receiving his \"caporegimes\". One of them, Peter Clemenza, (Richard Castellano) respectfully greets him as the new Don. Kay realizes Connie was telling the truth and that Michael has become his father's successor in every way. \n\nIn the novel, Kay flees to New Hampshire with their children, despite Connie's recanting her accusations. Hagen, at Michael's request, persuades her to return. Hagen risks his own life by revealing to Kay some Corleone family secrets and \"hypothetical\" reasons for Michael's actions.\nKay converts to Catholicism and attends Mass daily to pray for her husband's soul (just as Carmela Corleone had done for Vito). An early draft of the film's script ended with Kay's lighting candles for Michael.\n\nAt the beginning of \"The Godfather Part II\" (set in 1958-60), Kay, who is pregnant with the couple's third child, implores Michael to fulfill his promise to legitimize the family business. Michael continues making a genuine effort to eliminate the family's criminal ties. However, his escalating war with rival Hyman Roth (Lee Strasberg), as well as his growing obsession with revenge, keeps him trapped in the criminal underworld. On the night after Anthony's First Communion, assassins machine gun Michael and Kay's bedroom; the couple barely escapes unharmed. Not long afterward, Kay suffers an apparent miscarriage.\n\nKay grows increasingly disgusted with Michael's criminal life; in particular, she is appalled that Michael's button men are Anthony's closest companions. Kay becomes convinced that Michael will always live in a world of crime and violence. During the U.S. Senate hearing on organized crime that is being held in Washington D.C., Kay tells Michael she is leaving him and taking the children. During the ensuing argument, she reveals that her \"miscarriage\" was actually an abortion and that she had the procedure to avoid bringing another of Michael's sons into the world. Enraged, Michael strikes Kay and takes custody of their children; the two separate soon afterward.\n\nMichael initially prevents Kay from seeing their children. When she secretly visits them (with Connie's help), Michael coldly closes the door on her.\n\nBy the time of \"The Godfather Part III\" (set in 1979–80), Kay is remarried to a prosecutor named Douglas Michelson; in an introductory narrative, Michael explains he had granted Kay custody of Anthony (Franc D'Ambrosio) and Mary (Sofia Coppola). Michael and Kay, who have not seen each other since 1971, have an uneasy reunion at a family gathering. Anthony informs Michael he wants to quit law school to become an opera singer. Kay supports his decision, but Michael wants his son to finish his studies or go into the \"family business\" (putatively a legitimate charitable foundation, but still involved in underworld activities).\nAn argument ensues, in which Kay tells Michael that both she and Anthony know about Michael's having ordered his brother Fredo (John Cazale)'s murder 20 years earlier (as portrayed at the end of the previous film). She says she \"dreads\" him, but they reach a truce after Michael agrees to let Anthony leave school and not interfere with his music career.\n\nAfter Michael suffers a diabetic stroke, Kay visits him in the hospital, and they begin to repair their relationship. They travel together to Sicily for Anthony's operatic debut. There, Michael asks Kay's forgiveness and says he had a different destiny planned for them; he regrets losing her and confesses he still loves her. Kay tearfully admits that she will always love him.\n\nSoon afterward, burdened by the murder of his mentor Don Tomassino, Michael retires as Don of the Corleone Family, naming his nephew Vincent (Andy Garcia) as his successor, and he and Kay reconcile. They attend Anthony's operatic debut, \"Cavalleria Rusticana\", together in Palermo. After the performance, however, their daughter Mary is killed in an assassination attempt on Michael, who is also wounded. Kay is last seen with Michael, screaming over Mary's body.\n\nKay appears as a supporting character in \"The Godfather Returns\" (2004) and \"The Godfather's Revenge\" (2006), Mark Winegardner's two sequels to Puzo's original novel. The novels expand upon the early days of her relationship with Michael, her gradual estrangement from him, and her life after their divorce.\nNo canon source material supplies information on Kay's death.\n"}
{"id": "2120391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120391", "title": "Victim of Love (Elton John album)", "text": "Victim of Love (Elton John album)\n\nVictim of Love, released in 1979, is the thirteenth studio album release for Elton John. It is a disco album, released shortly after the peak of disco's popularity. It was not critically or commercially well-received, and is Elton John's third lowest charting album to date in the US, after 1986's \"Leather Jackets\" and 1985's \"Ice on Fire\".\n\nThe title track of the album, however, was moderately successful as a single. It reached No. 31 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100, No. 38 in Australia and No. 46 in Canada. It also peaked at No. 11 on the Canadian Adult Contemporary chart. In addition, all the tracks on the album reached No. 55 on the US Billboard Disco Top 100 chart.\n\nAt under 36 minutes, the album is the shortest of Elton John's career, and is atypical of his recording career in several respects. He neither wrote the songs nor played piano or keyboards, only providing the vocals. It was his first album without any of his original band members, which would not happen again until his 2010 collaboration with Leon Russell, \"The Union\". , it is also one of only two studio albums (along with \"A Single Man\") without lyricist Bernie Taupin. Apart from an appearance on the Australian television series \"Countdown\" (he was also a comedy regular on the show during the 1980s), John did little marketing for \"Victim of Love\". He did not tour to promote the album, and has never played any of its songs live. It is also the only studio album in John's discography from which none of the songs has been performed on stage.\n\n\"Strangers\", the B-side of the single of the album's title track, appeared as a bonus track on the 1998 Mercury reissue of John's previous album, \"A Single Man\", because it was recorded during those sessions.\n\nWhen the album was released as a CD in the 1980s, the track breaks were incorrect. The first 45 seconds of \"Spotlight\" was part of the previous track, and similar errors occurred in other tracks. In 2003, the album was reissued in a digitally remastered format, with those problems corrected.\n\nIn ranking all of John's studio albums, Matt Springer of Ultimate Classic Rock placed the album at the bottom of the list.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120393", "title": "Hae mee", "text": "Hae mee\n\nHae mee (also called prawn mee，台罗拼音：he5-mi7) is a noodle soup dish popular in Malaysia and Singapore. It can also refer to a fried noodle dish known as Hokkien mee. The dish's name literally means \"prawn mee\" in Hokkien.\n\nEgg noodles are served in richly flavoured dark soup stock with prawns, pork slices, fish cake slices and bean sprouts, topped with fried shallots and spring onion. The stock is made using dried shrimp, plucked heads of prawns, white pepper, garlic and other spices. Traditionally, lard is added to the soup, but this is now less common due to health concerns. A \"dry\" (without soup) version is also available; this version usually involves flavouring the noodles and toppings with vinegar, soy sauce, oil and chili, if desired. The dish is also usually served with freshly cut red chili slices in light soy sauce and lime juice.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120398", "title": "Tom Jackson (American football, born 1951)", "text": "Tom Jackson (American football, born 1951)\n\nThomas Louie Jackson, also referred to as \"TJ\" or \"Tommy\", (born April 4, 1951) is a former NFL linebacker for the Denver Broncos, where he was part of the \"Orange Crush Defense\". Jackson was a major component in the defense which led the Broncos to Super Bowl XXI against the New York Giants. After his playing career ended, he enjoyed a successful 29-year run as an NFL analyst for ESPN. He was given the Pete Rozelle Award for excellence in broadcasting by the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2015.\n\nJackson attended John Adams High School, where he played football as a star defensive back, baseball, and also was a wrestler. He was a fan of the Cleveland Browns and he and his father attended many games. Jackson credited his wrestling coach with developing his mental toughness and character. \"He was a 140-pound guy named John Bianchi, the toughest little Italian man I ever knew. He drove us unbelievably and probably drove me more than he drove the rest of my teammates. I look back very fondly on his help building of my character.\" Jackson's mother died when he was a teenager.\n\nJackson dreamed of attending Ohio State, but the Buckeyes had little interest in the undersized Jackson. He was recruited by University of Louisville head coach--and current college football analyst--Lee Corso. He attended Louisville and played football for three seasons from 1970 to 1972.\n\nDuring his college career, he was a two-time Missouri Valley Conference player of the year selection in 1970 and 1972. Playing linebacker, he led the Cardinals in tackles all three years and led the team to an overall record of 23-7-2.\n\nHis number 50 was retired by the Cardinals in 1999.\n\nJackson was selected by the Denver Broncos in the fourth round of the 1973 NFL Draft. He enjoyed a 14-year career in Denver where he was a three-time Pro Bowl selection, a four-time All-Pro selection, and was voted Denver's Most Inspirational Player six times by his teammates. He also assisted the team to championship appearances in Super Bowl XII and Super Bowl XXI.\n\nJackson was one of only four players to play for the Broncos in both of the aforementioned Super Bowls, played nine years apart. Jackson finished his career with 20 interceptions, which he returned for 340 yards and three touchdowns, and eight fumble recoveries, which he returned for 104 yards. He also recorded 13 sacks (with a season high 5-1/2) as a weak-side blitzer in Denver's 3-4 defense according to Broncos records. Jackson ranks third only to Jason Elam and John Elway on the team's all-time list of games played with 191. He retired tied for the franchise lead for interceptions by a linebacker with 20.\n\nJackson became the 14th person inducted in the Broncos' Ring of Fame in 1992.\n\nJackson published \"Blitz: An Autobiography\" in 1987 which focused on his career with the Broncos. The book was written with long-time Denver Post sports columnist Woody Paige.\n\nJackson joined ESPN studios in 1987 where he was teamed with Chris Berman on the network's signature NFL shows, \"NFL Countdown\" and \"NFL Primetime\". Sunday NFL Countdown, the weekly Sunday morning pre-game show and has won seven Sports Emmy awards for Outstanding Studio Show—Weekly (1988, 1991, 1994, 1995, 2001, 2003 and 2007 seasons). On \"Monday Night Countdown\", Jackson hosted the segment \"Jacked Up!,\" which featured five hits from the previous day's games. The show's hosts recited the title phrase as they watched some of the most punishing hits inflicted by players on the field.\n\nJackson's pre-ESPN broadcasting experience included co-host positions for both \"Broncos Beat,\" a weekly show on KCNC-TV in Denver, Colorado and a post-game show on KUSA-TV. He had also hosted a daily syndicated sports commentary radio show, \"Behind the Line.\"\n\nIn 1995 Jackson appeared in the \"Eggheads\" episode of the American science fiction television series \"Sliders\", playing a color commentator during the Mindgame scenes.\n\nDuring his career as a broadcaster, he was known for his outspoken commentary on social issues in addition to his football knowledge.\n\nTom Jackson retired from ESPN after the 2016 Pro Football Hall of Fame induction ceremony on August 6, 2016.\n\nOn January 20, 2019, Tom Jackson reunited with Chris Berman on a special playoff edition of NFL Primetime after the AFC and NFC Championship Games.\n\nOn September 13, 2019, ESPN announced that Berman and Jackson would return for a new digital-only edition of NFL Primetime, streaming weekly throughout the NFL season on ESPN+ beginning on September 15, 2019. The program will stream live at 7:30 p.m. ET on Sundays and be updated with highlights for the Sunday and Monday night games upon their completion.\n\nIn July 2015 Jackson was named the 2015 recipient of the prestigious Pete Rozelle Radio-Television Award from the Pro Football Hall of Fame.\n\nJackson resides in Cincinnati, Ohio with his wife, Jennifer, a former flight attendant whom he met in Hawaii at the 1990 Pro Bowl. They have two daughters, Taylor and Morgan. He also had a daughter, Andrea Jackson, who died on August 7, 1997, at the age of nine in a car accident.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120399", "title": "Malabar", "text": "Malabar\n\nMalabar may refer to the following :\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120402", "title": "Coastal morphodynamics", "text": "Coastal morphodynamics\n\nCoastal morphodynamics (i.e. the dynamics of beach morphology) refers to the study of the interaction and adjustment of the seafloor topography and fluid hydrodynamic processes, seafloor morphologies and sequences of change dynamics involving the motion of sediment. Hydrodynamic processes include those of waves, tides and wind-induced currents.\n\nWhile hydrodynamic processes respond instantaneously to morphological change, morphological change requires the redistribution of sediment. As sediment takes a finite time to move, there is a lag in the morphological response to hydrodynamic forcing. Sediment can therefore be considered to be a time-dependent coupling mechanism. Since the boundary conditions of hydrodynamic forcing change regularly, this may mean that the beach never attains equilibrium. Morphodynamic processes exhibit positive and negative feedbacks (such that beaches can, over different timescales, be considered to be both self-forcing and self-organised systems), nonlinearities and threshold behaviour.\n\nThis systems approach to the coast was first developed by Wright and Thom in 1977 and finalized by Wright and Short in 1984. According to their dynamic and morphological characteristics, exposed sandy beaches can be classified into several morphodynamic types (Wright and Short, 1984; Short, 1996). There is a large scale of morphodynamic states, this scale ranges from the \"dissipative state\" to the \"reflective extremes\". \n\nDissipative beaches are flat, have fine sand, incorporating waves that tend to break far from the intertidal zone and dissipate force progressively along wide surf zones. Dissipative beaches are wide and flat in profile, with a wide shoaling and surf zone, composed of finer sediment, and characterised by spilling breakers.\n\nReflective beaches are steep, and are known for their coarse sand; they have no surf zone, and the waves break brusquely on the intertidal zone. Reflective beaches are typically steep in profile with a narrow shoaling and surf zone, composed of coarse sediment, and characterised by surging breakers. Coarser sediment allows percolation during the swash part of the wave cycle, thus reducing the strength of backwash and allowing material to be deposited in the swash zone\n\nDepending on beach state, near bottom currents show variations in the relative dominance of motions due to: incident waves, subharmonic oscillations, infragravity oscillations, and mean longshore and rip currents. On reflective beaches, incident waves and subharmonic edge waves are dominant. In highly dissipative surf zones, shoreward decay of incident waves is accompanied by shoreward growth of infragravity energy; in the inner surf zone, currents associated with infragravity standing waves dominate. On intermediate states with pronounced bar-trough (straight or crescentic) topographies, incident wave orbital velocities are generally dominant but significant roles are also played by subharmonic and infragravity standing waves, longshore currents, and rips. The strongest rips and associated feeder currents occur in association with intermediate transverse bar and rip topographies.\n\nTransitions between beach states are often caused by changes in wave energy, with storms causing reflective beach profiles to flatten (offshore movement of sediment under steeper waves), thus adopting a more dissipative profile. Morphodynamic processes are also associated with other coastal landforms, for example spur and groove formation topography on coral reefs and tidal flats in infilling estuaries.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120421", "title": "Ringo Rama", "text": "Ringo Rama\n\nRingorama is the 13th studio album by Ringo Starr, released in 2003.\n\nAs the follow-up to \"I Wanna Be Santa Claus\" (1999), it continues Starr's alliance with Mark Hudson as well as most of his collaborators from that last project. Not straying too far from his tried and tested formula, Starr engaged the services of some of his famous musician friends for \"Ringorama\". Annoyed that Mercury had not put enough promotion towards \"I Wanna Be Santa Claus\", Starr left the label in 2000. Contributors this time around include Willie Nelson, Charlie Haden, Van Dyke Parks, Pink Floyd's David Gilmour, Shawn Colvin, Timothy B. Schmit, and Eric Clapton. Gilmour and Clapton's availability was down to the fact of living close-by to Starr, as he commented, \"People would ask, \"So who's on the record?\" and we'd say, \"Just a couple of local guys. You know, like Eric Clapton and Dave Gilmour.\" Because they do both live just around the corner.\" Recording had taken place at Starr's recording studio in London, Rocca Bella, and Hudson's Whatinthewhatthe? Studios in Los Angeles, with the sessions being produced by Starr, Hudson and Gary Nicholson.\n\nStarr commented that the opening track, \"Eye to Eye\", sounded \"like there's a war going on and we're trying to make it a war of love.\" \"Missouri Loves Company\", a play on words of misery loves company, was written quickly after Dean Grakal thought of the title phrase. The song features Gilmour on guitar. \"Instant Amnesia\" features, as Starr mentions, \"some of the best drumming I've ever played in the last ten, fifteen years.\" \"Memphis in Your Mind\" references several Sun Studio artists, such as Elvis Presley and Orbison. With George Harrison's late 2001 passing before \"Ringorama\" was started, Starr composed \"Never Without You\" in tribute to his friend, having Clapton perform the guitar solo duties. The song originally started out as a tribute to John Lennon and Harry Nilsson, but Starr thought the song was getting \"too messy\". After choosing to focus solely on Harrison, lines from Harrison's songs—\"Within You Without You\", \"Here Comes the Sun\" and \"All Things Must Pass\"—were included. Starr asked Clapton based on his stature as a friend to both Starr and Harrison: \"We're all good friends. So I asked Eric to play and he said 'yeah'.\" \"Imagine Me There\" started out based off the line \"You are that to me\", Gary Burr told Starr that he could not have that line in a country song, Starr proceeded to tell him: \"Yes I can say it—and if I sing it, it \"will\" be country!\"\n\nStarr wanted to include a Roy Orbison \"growl\" on the song \"Memphis In Your Mind\", and proceeded to call Orbison's widow, Barbara Orbison; she sent him a \"growl\" on a CD, with a message \"I'm sending over a growl\". The song also features Gilmour on guitar. The title for \"Trippin' on My Own Tears\" came about during a night out between Starr and Hudson when Hudson said \"I was trippin' on my own tears, I was so down\" and Starr replied \"That's just a great line\". The country-influenced \"Write One for Me\" was a duet with Willie Nelson, who sang on it at Starr's suggestion. Starr had a phone call with his lawyer, who was also Hudson's lawyer, to \"tell them to write one for me, so they did—but they wrote a song with that as the title!\" At that point the song was unfinished, but was later finished when they got together. The song is about a boy who gets nervous to tell a girl that she is right for him, and unable to write down his feelings, the boy meets a person in a bar and gets the person write the boy's feelings down. Inquired if \"Love First, Ask Questions Later\" was like another part of the Beatles' \"All You Need Is Love\", Starr responded that the song is how he feels \"the world should be and my hope that we all might stay in love.\"\n\"Elizabeth Reigns\" came about while Starr and Dean Grakal were recording at Rocca Bella Studio, some time before Queen Elizabeth II's Golden Jubilee. Asking Starr what ER stood for, Grakal proceeded to start on a song, with Starr exclaiming \"I'm not going to sing about the Queen.\" \"English Garden\", which mentions Starr's wife Barbara Bach and their dog Buster, includes in the final part some verses taken from Paul McCartney's \"Let 'Em In\". Starr explained: \"That always happens when you're sittin' in the garden, doesn't it? So I just put [the lines] in and called Paul for permission. He said, 'Sure.' He knew about it ahead of time.\" After looking at several albums where one artist would record all the instruments for a particular song, Starr wanted to do just that, and the result was the track \"I Really Love Her\".\n\nOn 20 May 2002, Starr signed a recording contract with Koch. Released by Koch on 25 March 2003, \"Ringorama\" managed a number 113 peak in the US on the \"Billboard\" 200, his first album in the 21st century to do so. The album also charted at number 6 on the Top Independent Albums chart in the US. The first 100,000 copies included a DVD of the recording sessions. To help promote the album and the \"Never Without You\" single, Starr appeared on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\" in the US on 13 March. During a show arranged for the press on 22 March, Starr and The Roundheads performed \"Memphis in Your Mind\" and \"Never Without You\", at the Bottom Line Club in New York City. Starr again performed \"Never Without You\" for \"The Conan O'Brien Show\" on 25 March; later that day for MTV's \"Total Request Live\"; and for \"Good Morning America\" on 9 April. On 21 October it was announced that a 3-disc version of the album would be released on 11 November, and included three bonus tracks, an interview disc and a DVD containing a \"Making Of\" documentary and the music video for \"Never Without You\". The bonus tracks were \"OK Ray\", \"I'm Home\" and \"Blink\", all of which were recorded for a movie.\n\nAOL Radio rated \"Never Without You\" at number 5 on their top 10 Starr songs list.\n\nThe 16 tracks of \"Ringorama Deluxe Edition\" are as follows:\n\nPersonnel per booklet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120422", "title": "Parity P", "text": "Parity P\n\nIn computational complexity theory, the complexity class ⊕P (pronounced \"parity P\") is the class of decision problems solvable by a nondeterministic Turing machine in polynomial time, where the acceptance condition is that the number of accepting computation paths is odd. An example of a ⊕P problem is \"does a given graph have an odd number of perfect matchings?\" The class was defined by Papadimitriou and Zachos in 1983.\n\n⊕P is a counting class, and can be seen as finding the least significant bit of the answer to the corresponding #P problem. The problem of finding the most significant bit is in PP. PP is believed to be a considerably harder class than ⊕P; for example, there is a relativized universe (see oracle machine) where P = ⊕P ≠ NP = PP = EXPTIME, as shown by Beigel, Buhrman, and Fortnow in 1998.\n\nWhile Toda's theorem shows that P contains PH, P is not known to even contain NP. However, the first part of the proof of Toda's theorem shows that BPP contains PH. Lance Fortnow has written a concise proof of this theorem.\n\n⊕P contains the graph isomorphism problem, and in fact this problem is low for ⊕P. It also trivially contains UP, since all problems in UP have either zero or one accepting paths. More generally, ⊕P is low for itself, meaning that such a machine gains no power from being able to solve any ⊕P problem instantly.\n\nThe ⊕ symbol in the name of the class may be a reference to use of the symbol ⊕ in Boolean algebra to refer the exclusive disjunction operator. This makes sense because if we consider \"accepts\" to be 1 and \"not accepts\" to be 0, the result of the machine is the exclusive disjunction of the results of each computation path.\n"}
{"id": "2120425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120425", "title": "Eurail", "text": "Eurail\n\nThe Eurail Pass, introduced in 1959 and formerly known as Europass or Eurorail Pass, is a rail pass which permits travel through 33 European countries on nearly all railroads and several shipping lines. The Eurail Group, based in Utrecht, is responsible for the marketing and management of the Eurail and Interrail passes. The company is owned by over 35 European railway and shipping companies. The Eurail Pass is available to non-European residents, and the Interrail Pass (introduced in 1972) is available to European residents. The passes, which provide access to of European railway, are used by over 33,000 travellers annually.\n\nThe Eurail pass is available to non-European citizens. The Interrail Pass is available to citizens and residents of European Union countries and the non-EU countries of Albania, Andorra, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, North Macedonia, Gibraltar, Iceland, Kosovo, Liechtenstein, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Norway, Russian Federation, San Marino, Serbia, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, and Vatican City. To obtain an Interrail pass proof of citizenship must be established with a passport or identity card, or proof of residency must be established with government-issued residency documents.\n\nUp to two children aged 4 to 11 can travel free of charge when accompanied by a full-fare adult. Eurail Passes are available in four age-based categories:\n\nThe Global Pass is valid in all 33 participating countries; as of 2020, they were Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Montenegro, the Netherlands, North Macedonia, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. A Global Pass fare is dependent on the number of days it is valid in a period of time. Fare categories are:\n\nThe One Country Pass permits travel on the national rail network of one country, with unlimited trips on each travel day. The pass is available in Austria, Benelux, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, the Greek islands, Great Britain Hungary, Ireland (the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland), Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, North Macedonia, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Scandinavia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, and Turkey. Countries without One Country Passes include Bosnia and Herzegovina, Germany, Montenegro, and Switzerland. The passes are available for travel on three, four, five, six or eight travel days in a one-month period.\n\nAlthough reservations for Eurail Pass holders are not usually required for local or regional trains, they are needed for most high-speed, international, and overnight trains. Surcharges are often required to guarantee seat reservations, meals, drinks, and free Wi-Fi. The fees vary by carrier, agent and route, and travellers can usually avoid paying excess fees by taking regional or local trains. Reservations can be made at the station, online on the carrier's website, on the Eurail site, in the Rail Planner App, by telephone, or at a travel agency.\n\nMany high-speed trains require a reservation. Examples include:\n\nMany overnight trains require reservations, with varying additional costs dependent on preferred sleeping accommodation (including couchettes or sleeping cabins). For Flexi Global Pass holders, overnight trains boarded before midnight are considered as one travel day (the day of departure) if the traveller does not change trains after midnight. The pass must be valid for the arrival and departure dates.\n\nAlthough Eurail and Interrail Passes are usually valid only on the national railway system of the participating countries; many countries also have private railway systems; some offer free (or discounted) tickets to Eurail or Interrail Pass holders. The discounts are normally between 25 and 50 per cent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120433", "title": "Application analyst", "text": "Application analyst\n\nIn the USA, an Application Analyst is someone whose job is to support a given application or applications. This may entail some computer programming, some system administration skills, and the ability to analyze a given problem, diagnose it and find its root cause, and then either solve it or pass the problem on to the relevant people if it does not lie within the application analyst's area of responsibility. Typically an application analyst will be responsible for supporting bespoke (i.e. custom) applications programmed with a variety of programming languages and using a variety of database systems, middleware systems and the like. It is a form of 3rd level line technical support. The role may or may not involve some customer contact but most often it involves getting some description of the problem from helpdesk, making a diagnosis and then either creating a fix or passing the problem on to someone who is responsible for the actual problem area.\n\nIn some companies, an application analyst is a Software Architect or Application Systems Analyst\n\nDepending on the Industry, an Application Analyst will apply subject matter expertise by verifying design documents, execute testing for new functionality, and detect defect fixes. Additional responsibilities can include being a liaison between business stakeholders and IT developers. Also, providing clarifications on system requirements and design for integrating-application teams. An Application Analyst will interface with multiple channels (depending on scope) to provide demos and application walk throughs & training. An Application Analyst will align with IT resources to ensure high quality deliverables utilizing agile methodology for rapid delivery technology enablers. Participating in the change request management process to field, document, and communicate responses feedback is also common within an Application Analysts responsibilities.\n\nApplication systems analysts consult with management and help develop software to fit clients' needs. Application systems analyst must provide accurate, quality analyses of new program applications, as well as conduct testing, locate potential problems, and solve them in an efficient manner. Clients' needs may vary widely (for example, they may work in the medical field or in the securities industry), and staying up to date with software and technology trends in their field are essential. \nCompanies that require analysts are mostly in the fields of business, accounting, security, and scientific engineering. Application systems analysts work with other analysts and program designers, as well as managers and clients. These analysts generally work in an office setting, but there are exceptions when clients may need services at their office or home. Application systems analysts usually work full time, although they may need to work nights and weekends to resolve emerging issues or when deadlines approach; some companies may require analysts to be on call.\n\nAnalyst positions typically require at least a bachelor's degree in computer science or a related field, and a master's degree may be required. Previous information technology experience - preferably in a similar role - is required as well. Application systems analysts must have excellent communication skills, as they often work directly with clients and may be required to train other analysts. Flexibility, the ability to work well in teams, and the ability to work well with minimal supervision are also preferred traits.\n\nApplications Systems Analyst Tasks:\n"}
{"id": "2120452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120452", "title": "Wang Luobin", "text": "Wang Luobin\n\nWang Luobin (王洛宾; 28 December 1913 – 14 March 1996) was a Chinese songwriter. He specialized in publishing Mandarin-language songs based on the music of various ethnic minorities in western China.\n\nWang was born in Beijing on 28 December 1913. He graduated from the Music Department of Beijing Normal University in 1934 and actively participated in the Second Sino-Japanese War on China's behalf beginning in 1937 in Shanxi Province. In 1938, in Lanzhou in Gansu Province, Wang published his first Xinjiang-inspired song, \"The Girl from Dabancheng\". He took up residence in northwestern China for more than 50 years since then, and devoted his time there to transcribing, adapting, collecting and revising western Chinese folk songs. In all, Wang wrote seven operas and edited six songbooks, and published some 700 Xinjiang-style songs, the most famous of which include \"Alamuhan\" (阿拉木汗, inspired by a Uyghur song), \"Awariguli\" (also supposedly an Uyghur song), \"Flowers and Youth\" (pinyin: Hua'er Yu Shaonian, a Hui Muslim folk song), \"In that place wholly faraway\" (a song from Qinghai Province), \"Lift Your Veil\" (掀起你的盖头来), \"Duldal and Maria\" (a Kazakh folk song), \"Mayila\", and \"The Crescent Moon Rises\" (半个月亮爬上来; pinyin: Ban Ge Yueliang Pa Shang Lai).\n\nWang began to win accolades for his work towards the end of his life. In 1993, \"At a Faraway Place\" and \"The Crescent Moon Rises\" were selected as the Chinese music classics of the 20th century. A year later, in July 1994, Wang received the Award for Outstanding Contributions to the Exchange of Western and Eastern Cultures from UNESCO. Wang was made the honorary town head of Dabancheng in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region by the local government in December of that year.\n\nWhen Wang tried to copyright “Xinjiang-style” songs he had published, a controversy evolved about whether he had stolen these folk songs from minority peoples’ traditions, i.e. whether he had actually “composed” (\"chuàngzuò\" 创作) them, or just “transcribed” (\"jìlù\" 记录) and “added [Chinese] lyrics” (\"yìpèi\" 译配) to traditional songs. In 1994 Sidiⱪ Haji Rozi, who now lives in the United States, published an article in the \"Ürümqi keqilik geziti\" (\"Wūlǔmùqí wǎnbào\" 《乌鲁木齐晚报》) titled “Song Thief Wang Luobin, Stop Stealing!”.\n\nWang married Huang Yulan in Lanzhou in 1945 and had three sons, Wang Haiyan, Wang Haixing and Wang Haicheng. Huang died in 1951 as a result of tuberculosis. Wang had lived in Australia for a period of time with his son Haiyan who immigrated in 1981, and stated that some of his later work was inspired by the Australian landscape and natural flora and fauna.\n\nWang died of cancer on 14 March 1996 at the age of 82. His songs continue to be popular today, and modern adaptations of them have been recorded by the Beijing Angelic Choir, a Chinese children's choir that has earned recognition both at home and abroad; by China's popular Twelve Girls Band; and by the famous Chinese rock singer Dao Lang, who is known for his western China-themed pop music.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120454", "title": "Cheb District", "text": "Cheb District\n\nCheb District () is a district (\"okres\") within Karlovy Vary Region of the Czech Republic. Its capital is the town of Cheb.\n\nAš - \nCheb -\nDolní Žandov - \nDrmoul - \nFrantiškovy Lázně - \nHazlov - \nHranice - \nKrásná - \nKřižovatka - \nLázně Kynžvart - \nLibá - \nLipová - \nLuby - \nMariánské Lázně - \nMilhostov - \nMilíkov - \nMnichov - \nNebanice - \nNový Kostel - \nOdrava - \nOkrouhlá - \nOvesné Kladruby - \nPlesná - \nPodhradí - \nPomezí nad Ohří - \nPoustka - \nPrameny - \nSkalná - \nStará Voda - \nTeplá - \nTřebeň - \nTři Sekery - \nTrstěnice - \nTuřany - \nValy - \nVelká Hleďsebe - \nVelký Luh - \nVlkovice - \nVojtanov - \nZádub-Závišín\n\n"}
{"id": "2120456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120456", "title": "Tony Perkins (politician)", "text": "Tony Perkins (politician)\n\nAnthony Richard Perkins (born March 20, 1963) is president of the Family Research Council, a self described Christian conservative policy and lobbying organization based in Washington, D.C. Perkins, a Southern Baptist layman, was previously a police officer and television reporter, served two terms as a Republican member of the Louisiana House of Representatives and unsuccessfully ran for the U.S. Senate in 2002. On May 14, 2018, he was appointed to the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom.\n\nPerkins was born and raised in the northern Oklahoma city of Cleveland, and graduated in 1981 from Cleveland High School. He received his Bachelor of Science degree from Liberty University. He later earned a Master of Public Administration degree from Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. After college, Perkins entered the United States Marine Corps. Following his tour of duty, he became a Baton Rouge police officer and also worked with the U.S. State Department's Anti-Terrorism Assistance Program instructing hundreds of police officers from around the world. Perkins later resigned from the police force.\n\nPerkins won an open seat in the Louisiana House representing District 64 (the eastern Baton Rouge suburbs, including part of Livingston Parish) when he defeated Democrat Herman L. Milton of Baker 63% to 37% in the nonpartisan blanket primary held on October 21, 1995. He was elected on a conservative platform of strong families and limited government. Four years later, he was reelected without opposition. He retired from the legislature in 2004, fulfilling a promise to serve no more than two terms.\n\nWhile in office, Perkins authored legislation to require Louisiana public schools to install Internet filtering software, to provide daily silent prayer, and to prevent what he termed \"censorship of America's Christian heritage\". Perkins also authored the nation's first covenant marriage law, a voluntary type of marriage that permits divorce only in cases of physical abuse, abandonment, adultery, imprisonment or after two years of separation.\n\nPerkins opposed casino gambling in Louisiana, calling a 1996 plan to restrict the location of gambling riverboats to one side of the river, \"putting lipstick on a hog\". It doesn't make the bill any better, it just looks a little better.\" Perkins was described as \"staunchly anti-abortion\" by Public Broadcasting Service which also credited him with working on law and order and economic development issues while in the state house. Perkins was instrumental in increasing state regulation of Louisiana abortion clinics; he sponsored a law to require state licensing and sanitary inspections.\n\nPerkins ran for the United States Senate in 2002 as a social and religious conservative Republican. Louisiana's then-Governor, Murphy J. Foster Jr., and the National Republican Senatorial Committee backed other candidates. Perkins finished in fourth place in the nonpartisan blanket primary with just under 10% of the vote. The Democratic incumbent, Mary Landrieu, was re-elected in the general election against another Republican, Suzanne Haik Terrell.\n\nOn May 14, 2018, he was appointed as one of nine commissioners to the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF). His appointment was opposed by the Hindu American Foundation for his track record of \"hateful stances against non-Christians.\"\n\nPerkins was floated as a potential Republican candidate for the U.S. Senate against Mary Landrieu in the 2014 election. Despite strongly criticising Bill Cassidy, the main Republican challenger to Landrieu, as \"pretty weak on the issues\", Perkins said in an interview in January 2014 that he would not run against Landrieu. He did however express interest in running for David Vitter's U.S. Senate Seat, should Vitter be elected Governor of Louisiana in 2015. Vitter lost the election and announced he would not run for re-election to the Senate, but Perkins declined to run in the 2016 election and endorsed John Fleming for the seat.\n\nAccording to the \"Baptist Press\", Perkins' \"concern about the influence of the homosexual movement\" led to his involvement in the 1998 founding of the Louisiana Family Forum, a conservative, faith-oriented, pro-life, and non-profit group.\n\nIn September 2003, Perkins withdrew from the race for Louisiana state insurance commissioner to become the president of the conservative Christian Family Research Council (FRC). He replaced Ken Connor. In addition to his duties as president of the FRC, Perkins hosts a radio program, \"Washington Watch with Tony Perkins\".\n\nPerkins was involved in the 2005 controversy over the disconnection of life support for Terri Schiavo, a woman who had been in a \"persistent vegetative state\" for a number of years. After a final court order permitted Schiavo's husband to remove her feeding tube and thereby cause her to die, Perkins stated, \"we should remember that her death is a symptom of a greater problem: that the courts no longer respect human life.\"\n\nIn October 2008, Perkins called the passage of California Proposition 8 (which prohibited same sex marriage in the state) \"more important than the presidential election\", adding that the United States has survived despite picking bad presidents in the past but \"we will not survive if we lose the institution of marriage.\"\n\nIn 2005, Perkins opposed the filibustering of certain right-leaning federal judicial nominees by U.S. Senate Democrats, arguing that the Democrats were waging a \"campaign against orthodox religious views\", and that the judicial nominees were being persecuted for their Christian faith. He became one of the organizers and hosts of Justice Sunday, a series of events that sought to mobilize the evangelical Christian base in support of the nominees.\n\nIn 2010, Perkins opposed the overturning of the \"Don't ask, don't tell\" law that prohibited people who were openly gay or lesbian from serving in the U.S. military. Perkins argued that the repeal would, among other things, infringe on the religious liberty of military chaplains and other service members holding orthodox Christian views.\n\nIn 2006, Perkins urged Congress to pass the Federal Marriage Amendment to the U.S. Constitution which would define marriage in the United States as the union between one man and one woman. He explained his reasoning in a 2006 \"Human Events\" column:\n\nThe definition … is rooted in the order of nature itself. It promotes the continuation of the human race and the cooperation of a mother and a father in raising the children they produce. This union can only be protected through amending the United States Constitution. If it's not, activists will continue using the courts to sell a five-legged dog.\n\nPerkins believes natural disasters are divine punishments for homosexuality. When Perkins' own home was flooded in August 2016, news outlets noted the irony.\n\nPerkins opposes any increases in the minimum wage, which he stated in a book that he cowrote with Harry Jacobson in 2008. \n\nIn 2014, Perkins released an editorial explaining why he supports Israel.\n\nIn 2016, Perkins endorsed Ted Cruz for the Republican presidential nomination.\n\nPerkins is also the past president of the Council for National Policy.\n\nOn May 17, 2001, Perkins gave a speech to the Louisiana chapter of the Council of Conservative Citizens (CCC), a white supremacist group that has described black people as a \"retrograde species of humanity\". Perkins claimed not to know the group's ideology at the time, but it had been widely publicized in Louisiana and the nation, just two years earlier. In an April 26, 2005, article in \"The Nation\", reporter Max Blumenthal revealed that in 1996 while managing the unsuccessful U. S. Senate campaign of Woody Jenkins, Perkins \"paid former Ku Klux Klan Grand Wizard David Duke $82,500 for his mailing list.\" Despite Perkins' denials the document authorizing the payment carried Perkins' signature. The Duke incident surfaced again in the local press in 2002, when Perkins ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. Senate.\n\nIn 2007, Perkins opposed the first ever Hindu prayer before the United States Senate saying that \"There is no historic connection between America and the polytheistic creed of the Hindu faith.\" He also opposed a US Marines yoga and meditation program for PTSD prevention terming the Hindu and Buddhist practices as \"goofy\".\n\nIn 2010, the Family Research Council—under Perkins' leadership—was classified as a hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) which characterized the group as \"a fount of anti-gay propaganda\". Perkins dismissed the hate group designation as a political attack on the FRC by a \"liberal organization\" and as part of \"the left's smear campaign of conservatives\".\n\nIn spring 2013, Perkins urged conservatives nationwide to withhold political contributions to the national Republican Party until the leadership \"grows a backbone\" and halts support for so many of the Democratic legislative initiatives.\n\nPerkins has also made statements critical of Islam. In September 2010, Perkins claimed that \"the ultimate evil has been committed\" when Muslims interpret the Quran in its literal context, that Islam \"tears at the fabric of democracy,\" and that World history classes dishonestly portray Islam in a positive light by providing an \"airbrushed\" portrait of the religion itself.\n\nIn 2015, Perkins affirmed the debate over Obama's birth certificate as \"legitimate\", remarking that it \"makes sense\" to conclude that Obama was a Muslim.\n\nIn 2017, Perkins was accused of covering up a 2015 sexual assault by Wesley Goodman, a political candidate the Council for National Policy raised money for.\n\nIn 2018, Perkins was criticized for defending Donald Trump's behavior, saying he should be given a \"Mulligan\".\n\nPerkins is married to Lawana Perkins (née Lee), with whom he has five children. He has been affiliated with the National Rifle Association, the American Legion, the Christian Coalition, and the Baton Rouge Rescue Mission.\n\nPerkins' family was affected by the 2016 Louisiana floods, and had to evacuate their Louisiana home by canoe. Their home was destroyed by the flooding.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120468", "title": "21 at 33", "text": "21 at 33\n\n21 at 33 is the fourteenth studio album by Elton John. Including other releases (three compilation albums, two live albums, one film soundtrack and one EP) it is the 21st official release, and was released when Elton John was 33 years old; hence the title.\n\nIt was recorded at Super Bear Studios, Nice, France, in August 1979, and Rumbo Recorders and Sunset Sound in Los Angeles, California between January to March 1980.\n\nThe album sold over 900,000 copies in the United States, missing a Platinum certification.\n\nThe two other founding members of the original Elton John Band (active 1969–1975), drummer Nigel Olsson and bass player Dee Murray, reunited with him for two songs. His keyboardist James Newton-Howard returned and performed on almost every track as was the case on \"Rock of the Westies\" and \"Blue Moves\". Other musicians included members of the Eagles and Toto as well as Peter Noone from Herman's Hermits, Bill Champlin and Toni Tennille of Captain & Tennille fame.\n\nThe title comes from the fact that this was John's 21st album in total at the age of 33. According to the liner notes in the remastered edition of the album, the count includes all standard albums, two greatest hits compilations, two live albums, as well as the \"Friends\" soundtrack, the three-song, 12-inch EP \"The Thom Bell Sessions\" and the UK-only \"rarities\" collection \"Lady Samantha\".\n\nJohn has not played any of the material in concert since touring in 1980, with the exception of \"Little Jeannie\", which, despite having been a huge North American hit (#3 Pop and #1 Adult Contemporary in the United States, and #1 in Canada) was only included in the two \"One Night Only\" concerts in 2000, and the warm up gig for the 2 Madison Square Garden shows in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania.\n\n\nIn 2003, Mercury/Universal and The Rocket Record Company reissued the album on CD, remastered by Gary Moore. The lineup contained no bonus tracks.\n\nTrack numbering refers to CD and digital releases of the album.\n\n\n} \n"}
{"id": "2120472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120472", "title": "Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad", "text": "Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad\n\nThe Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad (PW&B) was an American railroad company itself a result of merger of four small lines dating from the earliest days of American railroading in the late 1820s and early 1830s, that operated from 1836, until being bought by a larger regional line in 1881, with a merger into a longer Northeast Corridor railway in 1902. It built the first rail line south from Philadelphia into The South.\n\nFounded in 1831 as the Philadelphia and Delaware County Rail-Road Company, the PW&B had within six years changed its name and merged with three other state-chartered railroads in three Middle Atlantic states to create a single line between Philadelphia and Baltimore. In 1881, the PW&B came under the control of the Pennsylvania Railroad (PRR), the larger one of then two dominant rail line companies in the Northeast United States.\nAn 1895 historian of the PRR had this to say about the significance of the PW&B, which it had acquired and gained control of fourteen years before:\nAn important constituent of a great North and South line of transportation, it challenges ocean competition and carries on its rails not only statesmen and tourists but a valuable interchange of products between different lines of latitude. As a military highway, it is of the greatest strategic importance to the national, industrial, and commercial capitals – Washington, Philadelphia and New York. It presents some of the very best transportation facilities to the commerce of the cities after which it is named and could not be obliterated from the railroad map of the United States without materially disturbing its harmony.\nIn 1902, the PW&B was merged into the PRR's owned and newly merged Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington Railroad.\n\nThe right-of-way laid down by the PW&B line is still in use today as part of Amtrak's Northeast Corridor; and the Maryland Department of Transportation's MARC commuter passenger system from Baltimore to Maryland's northeast corner. Freight is hauled on the route by Norfolk Southern and formerly by the Conrail system.\n\nOn April 2, 1831, the General Assembly of Pennsylvania, seeking to improve transportation between Philadelphia and points south along the Atlantic coast and Eastern seaboard, chartered the Philadelphia and Delaware County Rail-Road Company. The legislature allotted $200,000 to build a rail line from America's largest city to the Delaware state line. In July 1835, surveyors began to look at possible routes, and in October, they reported that the best option, a 17-mile line, would cost $233,000 to build.\n\nMeanwhile, further south, across the Mason–Dixon line, the Delaware and Maryland legislatures were doing their part to create a rail link to Wilmington and Baltimore. On January 18, 1832, the State of Delaware chartered the Wilmington and Susquehanna Rail Road Company (W&S, $400,000) to build from Wilmington to the Maryland state line. On March 5, the State of Maryland chartered the Baltimore and Port Deposite Rail Road Company (B&PD) (with $1,000,000) to build from Baltimore northeast to the western bank of the Susquehanna River. On March 12, the Delaware and Maryland Rail Road Company (D&M) was chartered for $3,000,000 to build from Port Deposit or any other point on the Susquehanna's eastern river bank north to the Delaware line.\n\nIn 1835, the W&S hired architect/surveyor William Strickland to make a preliminary survey to the southwest between Wilmington and North East, Maryland. That same year, the B&PD began operating trains between Baltimore harbor's \"Basin\" (today's Inner Harbor) waterfront and its Canton industrial, commercial and residential neighborhood to the southeast. But Matthew Newkirk, who had invested $50,000 in the B&PD, grew impatient. On Oct. 6, he wrote to the Company Board \"demanding that Pres. Finley resign and be replaced by someone who will be more aggressive in collecting from delinquent subscribers and pushing project forward.\" As alternates, he suggests the noted lawyer, artist and civic activist, John H. B. Latrobe, brother of Chief Engineer Benjamin H. Latrobe, II (grandson of famous architect Benjamin Henry Latrobe), or Roswell L. Colt. Six days later, Colt became railroad line president, but his term lasted just five weeks; he was soon replaced by Lewis Brantz.\n\nThe year 1836 saw several milestones. The P&DC opened its first segment of track; saw its allowable expenditures upped by the State to $400,000; and changed its name, on March 14, to The Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad Company. On July 4, the PW&B began building its bridge over the Schuylkill River, the most significant obstacle on its part of the route. The bridge would cross at Gray's Ferry Bridge, south of the city. Meanwhile, on April 18, the D&M merged with the W&S, forming the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company.\n\nWork proceeded in Delaware and Maryland as well. By July 1837, there was continuous track from Baltimore to Wilmington, broken only by the wide Susquehanna River, which trains crossed by steam-powered ferryboats at Havre de Grace to Perryville. On January 15, 1838, the PW&B opened service to Wilmington from Gray's Ferry, then a few miles south of Philadelphia's city limits.\n\nThe disadvantages of tripartite ownership of the Philadelphia-Baltimore line having become obvious, the three remaining state-chartered railroads merged on February 12, 1838, to form the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad Company. (The new company's name differed from its predecessor's in that \"The\" at the beginning of the titled name was not part of its formal incorporated name.)\n\nAmong the passengers that year was Frederick Douglass, (1808-1895), a former Eastern Shore farm slave and later Fells Point ships' caulker, who escaped his Baltimore owner by boarding a PB&W train, perhaps at a Canton station or along the line in the vicinity, (further east of the future 1849-1850 historic President Street Station at President and Fleet Streets, which is east of \"The Basin\" of Baltimore's Harbor), and riding it northeast to Havre de Grace, Perryville, Wilmington and then to Philadelphia. To avoid detention, Douglass, a future world-famous abolitionist, statesman, Federal official, orator and publisher, borrowed a \"seaman's protection\", a document obtained by his future wife, a free black woman, which was normally carried by free black sailors, of which there were many in the merchant fleets and the navy. Later, the railroad would require black passengers to have \"a responsible white person\" sign a bond at the ticket office before allowing them to board.\n\nIn December, the PB&W completed its Schuylkill bridge at Gray's Ferry. Named the \"Newkirk Viaduct\" after PW&B president Matthew Newkirk, it allowed trains to run from downtown Philadelphia to downtown Baltimore, with only the Susquehanna River steam railroad ferry interrupting the ride. That interruption was eventually bridged under pressure of the heavy traffic needs in 1864-5, the later days of the Civil War. After a disastrous storm damaged the new spans, reconstruction began anew and was completed by 1866.\n\nThe Baltimore & Ohio Railroad (B&O) began using the tracks that same year to offer service northeast of Baltimore to Philadelphia.\nIn Baltimore, the PW&B's terminus and business office sat at the southwest corner of President and Fleet Streets, east of the Jones Falls, the eventual future site of the President Street Station. The line ran east along Fleet Street, turned southeast onto Boston Street and ran along the waterfront past Canton before turning northeast and leaving the city limits, heading east, then northeast towards the Susquehanna.\n\nIn Philadelphia, the line ended at Broad Street and Prime Avenue (today Washington Avenue), where it connected with the Southwark Rail-Road (built in 1835) to reach the Delaware River.\n\nIn 1839, the railroad's ticket agents advertised daily mail-and-passenger trains that left Baltimore's old original Pratt Street station (at South Charles Street) of the B&O (before 1857-65 construction of the now-famous Camden Street Station) at 9:30 a.m., stopped for lunch in Wilmington, and reached the Market Street depot in Philadelphia at 4 p.m.\n\nIn 1842, Newkirk resigned as PW&B president. He was replaced by Matthew Brooke Buckley (1794-1856), who had become a PW&B board member on Jan. 10, 1842, and one week later had taken over leadership of one of the railroad's three executive committees, the Northern one. As president, Buckley helped create the first telegraph line, (the previous invention of Samuel F. B. Morse laid over the B&O line to Washington in 1844), from Philadelphia to Baltimore (and hence from points north and south) by agreeing to allow the builder to use the PW&B right-of-way in exchange for the use of the communications equipment.\n\nOn Jan. 12, 1846, Buckley was replaced by Edward C. Dale (1802-1866), a grandson of Richard Dale, one of the U.S. Navy's first commodores.\nIn February 1850, the PW&B improved its Baltimore terminus by completing erection of a new station, with a 208-foot (63 m) barrel-vaulted train shed. Service onward to Washington, D.C., was facilitated by drawing the coaches by horse down Pratt Street to the B&O terminal, first at East Pratt and South Charles Streets, later after 1857, to the new Camden Street Station. (In 1861, one week after the American Civil War began with the Confederate firings on Fort Sumter, in Charleston harbor, in South Carolina, an angry mob of Southern sympathizers attacked a trainload of future Union Army soldiers of the 6th Massachusetts volunteer state militia, joined in Philadelphia by the \"Washington Brigade\" of Pennsylvania state militia, heading to Washington to protect the Capital and respond to President Lincoln's call for 75,000 troops and declaring a state of rebellion. Because locomotives were not allowed to transfer through the city possibly for fire safety reasons during their transfer: the \"First Bloodshed\" of this famous \"Pratt Street Riot\" set the nation irrevocably on the path to war.) Unwieldy as it was, the arrangement allowed the railroads to temporarily compete with the Philadelphia and Columbia Railroad (renamed Pennsylvania Railroad after 1857) on routes going west from Philadelphia. By 1853, the Camden and Amboy Railroad and New Jersey Railroad were also part of this agreement, providing through service from New York City to the West.\n\nThe PB&W also extended its reach into Delaware – on March 15, 1839, it bought the New Castle and Frenchtown Turnpike and Rail Road running from New Castle, Delaware, to Frenchtown, Maryland – but it took 13 years to connect the line to the rest of the PW&B. The \"New Castle and Wilmington Railroad\" was chartered to do so, and opened in 1852. The line also provided a connection with the Delaware Railroad, which the PW&B took over and began to operate on January 1, 1857. In 1859, the NC&F was abandoned west of Porter, the junction with the Delaware Railroad. By 1866, these moves and others allowed the PW&B to dominate the Delmarva Peninsula rail market.\n\nIn November 1866, the Susquehanna River was bridged at last by the PW&B Bridge, a 3,269-foot (996 m) wooden truss, finally creating a continuous rail connection between Philadelphia and Baltimore.\n\nTo avoid swampy areas and serve more populated ones, the PW&B built the Darby Improvement, which diverged from its existing main line just south of the Grays Ferry Bridge, passed through Darby, and rejoined it at Eddystone, just upriver from Chester. The new inland track opened on November 18, 1872. The PW&B dispensed with the 9.9-mile old alignment less than a year later, leasing it on July 1, 1873, to the Philadelphia and Reading Railway for 999 years with the stipulation that it would be used solely for freight. (The Reading dubbed the line, along with some connecting track, its Philadelphia and Chester Branch; southbound trains reached it via the Junction Railroad (jointly controlled by PW&B, Reading, and PRR) and continued on to the connecting Chester and Delaware River Railroad.)\n\nThe PW&B, which had competed so fiercely with the Pennsylvania, began to see their interests align. In 1873, the PRR opened the Baltimore and Potomac Rail Road (founded 1853, organized 1858), from Baltimore to Washington. The PW&B agreed to allow the PRR to use its track between Philadelphia and Baltimore, helping the PRR offer a shorter and more direct trip to Washington.\n\nOn May 15, 1877, the PW&B formally absorbed the New Castle and Frenchtown and New Castle and Wilmington railroads, forming a branch line from Wilmington to Rodney. On May 21, 1877, it then absorbed the Southwark railroad, extending its main line to the Delaware River waterfront.\n\nIn 1880, a conflict began between the PRR and the B&O, both of which operated over the PW&B. The B&O was working to reduce its reliance on PRR tracks; it had recently arranged to switch its Philadelphia-New York trains to the new Reading-controlled \"Bound Brook Route,\" which had recently broken the PRR's monopoly on travel to New York via New Jersey. At the time, northbound B&O trains left the PW&B at Gray's Ferry Bridge in southwest Philadelphia and traveled over the Junction Railroad to Belmont, where they reached Reading rails and continued north. However, a mile of the Junction Railroad's track through Philadelphia was owned and used by the PRR, which showed great ingenuity in arranging delays to B&O trains.\n\nThe irate John W. Garrett (1820–84), Civil War-era President of the Baltimore & Ohio, decided to counter-attack by quietly buying out the PW&B, which would have cut off the Pennsylvania Railroad from its Baltimore & Potomac subsidiary. However, his agent encountered unexpected difficulties in buying up a majority of the stock at the price specified. Meanwhile, Garrett's maneuver became known to the PRR, which quickly bought out a majority of the stock at a somewhat higher price and took control of the PW&B first instead. Garrett and the Baltimore and Ohio were forced later to construct an independent separate northeast line to Philadelphia, the Baltimore and Philadelphia Railroad, while paying the PRR substantial fees to continue service further north to New York City over their lines. The new line opened in 1886; the Reading also used it to avoid the Junction Railroad.\n\nA number of branches were built, bought and sold from 1881 to 1891, as described below. In 1895, the main line was realigned and straightened at Naaman's Creek in Delaware. The old line would become sidings for Claymont Steel.\n\nThe PRR's Baltimore and Potomac Rail Road was formally leased to the PW&B on November 1, 1891.\n\nThe Elkton and Middletown Railroad, opened in 1895, was planned as a cutoff between the main line at Elkton, Maryland, and the Delaware Railroad at Middletown, Delaware. However, only a short piece of track, serving industries in Elkton, was ever constructed. It was consolidated into the Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington Railroad on September 15, 1916.\n\nThe PW&B merged with the Baltimore and Potomac on November 1, 1902, to form the Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington Railroad.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120480", "title": "Sokolov District", "text": "Sokolov District\n\nSokolov District () is a district (\"okres\") within the Karlovy Vary Region of the Czech Republic. Its capital is the town of Sokolov.\n\nBřezová - \nBublava - \nBukovany - \nChlum Svaté Maří - \nChodov - \nCitice - \nDasnice - \nDolní Nivy - \nDolní Rychnov - \nHabartov - \nHorní Slavkov - \nJindřichovice - \nJosefov - \nKaceřov - \nKrajková - \nKrálovské Poříčí -\nKraslice - \nKrásno - \nKynšperk nad Ohří - \nLibavské Údolí - \nLoket - \nLomnice - \nNová Ves -\nNové Sedlo - \nOloví - \nPřebuz - \nRotava - \nRovná - \nŠabina -\nŠindelová - \nSokolov - \nStaré Sedlo - \nStříbrná - \n\"Svatava\" - \nTatrovice - \nTěšovice - \nVintířov - \nVřesová\n\n"}
{"id": "2120489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120489", "title": "László Bélády", "text": "László Bélády\n\nLászló \"Les\" Bélády (born April 29, 1928 in Budapest) is a Hungarian computer scientist notable for devising the Bélády's Min theoretical memory caching algorithm in 1966 while working at IBM Research. He also demonstrated the existence of a Bélády's anomaly. During the 1980s he was the editor-in-chief of the IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering.\n\nBélády earned B.S. in Mechanical Engineering, then an M.S. in Aeronautical Engineering at the Technical University of Budapest in 1950.\n\nHe left Hungary after the Hungarian Revolution of 1956. Then he worked as a draftsman at Ford Motor Company in Cologne and as an aerodynamics engineer at Dassault in Paris. In 1961 he immigrated to the United States. In the 60s and 70s he primarily lived in New York City with stints in California and England, where he joined International Business Machines and did early work in operating systems, virtual machine architectures, program behavior modeling, memory management, computer graphics, Asian character sets, and data security.\n\nFrom 1961 – 1981 he worked at IBM Corp. at the Thomas J. Watson Research Center, where he worked as program manager for software technology. In his later years at IBM he was responsible for software engineering worldwide until leaving for Tokyo to create its software research lab. In 1981 he worked as manager of software engineering at Japan Science Institute for two years. In 1984 he joined the Microelectronics and Computer Technology Corporation in Austin and founded its Software Technology Program. He focused the program on creating advanced technology for aiding the distributed design of large complex software systems. From 1991 to 1998 he served as President and CEO of Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, Inc. (MERL). He has been in various University advisory roles including a member of the computer science advisory board at the University of Colorado at Boulder and foreign member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. He is now retired spending much of his time in Budapest and Austin.\n\nBélády is known for the \"Belady Algorithm\", the OPT (or MIN) Page Replacement Algorithm.\nHe co-designed and built IBM M44/44X, an experimental machine which is the first computer with multiple virtual machine organization. He is co-founder of an industrial research consortium, the MCC. Bélády also participated in the design of the earliest commercial time-sharing systems, the TSS-67.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120491", "title": "Milltown Cemetery attack", "text": "Milltown Cemetery attack\n\nThe Milltown Cemetery attack (also known as the Milltown Cemetery killings or Milltown Massacre) took place on 16 March 1988 at Milltown Cemetery in Belfast, Northern Ireland. During the large funeral of three Provisional IRA members killed in Gibraltar, an Ulster Defence Association (UDA) member, Michael Stone, attacked the mourners with hand grenades and pistols. He had learned there would be no police or armed IRA members at the cemetery. As Stone then ran towards the nearby motorway, a large crowd began chasing him and he continued shooting and throwing grenades. Some of the crowd caught Stone and began beating him, but he was rescued by the police and arrested. Three people had been killed and more than 60 wounded. The \"unprecedented, one-man attack\" was filmed by television news crews and caused shock around the world.\n\nThree days later, two British Army corporals drove into the funeral procession of one of the Milltown victims. The non-uniformed soldiers were dragged from their car by an angry crowd, beaten and then shot dead by the IRA, in what became known as the corporals killings.\n\nOn 6 March 1988, Provisional IRA members Daniel McCann, Seán Savage and Mairéad Farrell were shot dead by the Special Air Service (SAS) in Gibraltar, in Operation Flavius. The three had allegedly been preparing a bomb attack on British military personnel there, but the deaths outraged republicans as the three were unarmed and shot without warning. Their bodies arrived in Belfast on 14 March and were taken to their family homes. Tensions were high as the security forces flooded the neighbourhoods where they had lived, to try to prevent public displays honouring the dead. The \"Gilbraltar Three\" were due to be buried in the republican plot at Milltown Cemetery on 16 March. For years, republicans had complained about heavy-handed policing of IRA funerals, which had led to violence. In a change from normal procedure, the security forces agreed to stay away from the funeral in exchange for guarantees that there would be no three-volley salute by IRA gunmen. The British Army and Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) would instead keep watch from the sidelines. This decision was not made public.\n\nMichael Stone was a loyalist, a member of the Ulster Defence Association (UDA) who had been involved in several killings and other attacks, and who described himself as a \"freelance loyalist paramilitary\". Stone learned that there would be little security force presence at the funerals, and planned \"to take out the Sinn Féin and IRA leadership at the graveside\". He said his attack was retaliation for the Remembrance Day bombing four months earlier, when eleven Protestants had been killed by an IRA bomb at a Remembrance Sunday ceremony. He later told journalist Peter Taylor that \"it was symbolic: the IRA had attacked a British cenotaph and he was taking revenge by attacking the IRA equivalent\". Stone claimed that he and other UDA members considered planting bombs in the graveyard, but abandoned the plan because the bombs might miss the republican leaders. He instead decided to carry out a one-man attack with guns and grenades. Stone claimed that a \"senior member of the UDA\" had given him the organisation's official clearance for the attack and that he was given a Browning Hi-Power 9mm pistol, a Ruger Speed-Six .357 Magnum revolver and seven RGD-5 grenades the night before the funeral.\n\nThe funeral service and requiem mass went ahead as planned, and the cortege made its way to Milltown Cemetery, off the Falls Road. Present were thousands of mourners and top members of the IRA and Sinn Féin, including Sinn Féin leader Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness. Two RUC helicopters hovered overhead. Stone claimed that he entered the graveyard through the front gate with the mourners and mingled with the large crowd, although one witness claimed to have seen him enter from the M1 motorway with three other people. \n\nAs the third coffin was about to be lowered into the ground, Stone threw two grenades—which had a seven-second delay—toward the republican plot and began shooting. The first grenade exploded near the crowd and about from the grave. There was panic and confusion, and people dived for cover behind gravestones. Stone began jogging toward the motorway, several hundred yards away, chased by dozens of men and youths. He periodically stopped to shoot and throw grenades at his pursuers. In the 19 March edition of the \"Irish Times\", columnist Kevin Myers, an opponent of republican paramilitary violence, wrote: \"Unarmed young men charged against the man hurling grenades and firing an automatic pistol [...] The young men stalking their quarry repeatedly came under fire; they were repeatedly bombed; they repeatedly advanced. Indeed this was not simply bravery; this was a heroism which in other circumstances, I have no doubt, would have won the highest military decorations\". \n\nThree people were killed while pursuing Stone: Catholic civilians Thomas McErlean (20) and John Murray (26), and IRA member Caoimhín Mac Brádaigh (30), also known as Kevin Brady. During the attack about 60 people were wounded by bullets, grenade shrapnel and fragments of marble and stone from gravestones. Among those wounded was a pregnant mother of four, a 72-year-old grandmother and a ten-year-old boy. Some fellow loyalists said that Stone made the mistake of throwing his grenades too soon; the death toll would likely have been much higher had the grenades exploded in mid-air, \"raining lethal shrapnel over a wide area\".\n\nA white van that had been parked on the hard shoulder of the motorway suddenly drove off as Stone fled from the angry crowd. There was speculation that the van was part of the attack, but the RUC said it was part of a police patrol, and that the officers sped off because they feared for their lives. Stone said he had arranged for a getaway car, driven by a UDA member, to pick him up on the hard shoulder of the motorway, but the driver allegedly \"panicked and left\". By the time Stone reached the motorway, he had seemingly run out of ammunition. He ran out onto the road and tried to stop cars, but was caught by the crowd, beaten, and bundled into a hijacked vehicle. Armed RUC officers in Land Rovers quickly arrived, \"almost certainly saving his life\". They arrested him and took him to Musgrave Park Hospital for treatment of his injuries. The whole event had been recorded by television news cameras.\n\nThat evening, angry youths in republican districts burnt hijacked vehicles and attacked the RUC. Immediately after the attack, the two main loyalist paramilitary groups—the UDA and the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF)—denied responsibility. The leader of the UDA West Belfast Brigade, Tommy Lyttle, said that Stone was a rogue loyalist acting without orders from the UDA, although he did not condemn the attack. Lyttle told other UDA leaders to keep to this line. UDA member Sammy Duddy said: \"After Milltown, two UDA brigadiers from two Belfast battalions telephoned the IRA to say they didn't know Michael Stone [...] But Michael was UDA, he was a travelling gunman who went after the IRA and Republicans and he needed no authority for that because that was his job. Those two brigadiers were scared in case the IRA would retaliate against them or their areas [...] so they disclaimed Michael, one of our best operators\".\n\nSinn Féin and others \"claimed that there must have been collusion with the security forces, because only a small number of people knew in advance of the reduced police presence at the funerals\". Stone later claimed he had assurances that British soldiers and RUC officers would not be deployed in the graveyard. He also claimed to have had detailed information about British Army and RUC movements. Stone said that, the night before the attack, he was \"given his pick of weapons from an Ulster Resistance cache at a secret location outside Belfast\" and was \"driven back into the city by a member of the RUC\". According to journalist Martin Dillon, the weapons he used were given to him on the orders of UDA intelligence chief Brian Nelson, who was later revealed to be an undercover agent of the British Army's Force Research Unit (FRU).\n\nThree days later, during the funeral of one of Stone's victims, Caoimhín Mac Brádaigh, two British Army corporals (Derek Wood and David Howes) in civilian clothes and in a civilian car drove into the path of the funeral cortège, apparently by mistake. Many of those present believed the soldiers were loyalists intent on repeating Stone's attack. An angry crowd surrounded and attacked their car. Corporal Wood drew his service pistol and fired a shot in the air. The two men were then dragged from the car before being taken away, beaten and shot dead by the IRA. The incident is often referred to as the corporals killings and, like the attack at Milltown, much of it was filmed by television news cameras. \n\nThe Browning pistol Stone used was seized on the day of the attack and was eventually used by an IRA unit to ambush a combined RUC/British Army patrol in Belfast on 13 October 1990. A constable was shot dead and another badly injured.\n\nIn March 1989, Stone was convicted for the three murders at Milltown, for three paramilitary murders before, and for other offences, receiving sentences totaling 682 years. Many hardline loyalists saw him as a hero and he became a loyalist icon. After his conviction, an issue of the UDA magazine \"Ulster\" was devoted to Stone, stating that he \"stood bravely in the middle of rebel scum and let them have it\". Apart from time on remand spent in Crumlin Road Prison, Stone spent all of his sentence in HM Prison Maze. Stone was released after serving 13 years as a result of the Good Friday Agreement. Author and journalist Martin Dillon interviewed Stone in prison and published a book about him in 1992, \"Stone Cold: The True Story of Michael Stone and the Milltown Massacre\". Stone later published an autobiography, \"None Shall Divide Us\", which included an account of the attack, in which he wrote that he deeply regretted the hurt he had caused the families of those he killed, and paid tribute to the bravery of two of the men killed while pursuing him at the cemetery (Murray, Mac Brádaigh). Stone wrote \"I didn't choose killing as a career, killing chose me\".\n\nIn November 2006, Stone was charged with attempted murder of Martin McGuinness and Gerry Adams, having been arrested attempting to enter the parliament buildings at Stormont while armed. He was subsequently convicted and sentenced to a further 16 years' imprisonment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120492", "title": "Jill Gibson", "text": "Jill Gibson\n\nJill Gibson (born June 18, 1942) is an American singer, songwriter, photographer, painter and sculptor. She is mostly known for her collaboration work with Jan & Dean and for having briefly been a member of the successful 1960s rock group The Mamas & the Papas. She was also one of the main photographers at the historic Monterey Pop Festival in 1967.\n\nJill Gibson was born in Los Angeles, California on June 18, 1942. She is half-English. Gibson attended University High School in Los Angeles. She is a former model.\n\nIn 1975, she gave birth to a son, Mattia Borrani. Borrani has followed his mother's pursuit of a career in music and is the lead singer and rhythm guitarist for the indie rock group Oslo.\n\nJill Gibson was studying at University High School in Los Angeles, California when she met Jan Berry of Jan & Dean fame in 1959. The two were an item for the next seven years. Together they wrote over a dozen songs and through Berry, Gibson got more involved with the music scene. Eventually she began composing songs with other known songwriters such as Don Altfeld, George Tipton and Roger Christian, a Los Angeles-based disc jockey who also wrote with Brian Wilson of The Beach Boys.\n\nIn 1962 Jan Berry decided to create a female answer to Jan & Dean called Judy & Jill, featuring Gibson with Dean Torrence's girlfriend Judy Lovejoy. Demo recordings such as \"Come On Baby\" (written by Gibson and Lovejoy), \"Eleventh Minute\" (written by Gibson and Altfeld), \"Just For Tonight\", and \"Baby What's It Gonna Be\" were cut and produced by Berry for Liberty Records. Gibson performed most of the leads on these unreleased demos. Nothing major happened with the Judy & Jill recordings, however, and Gibson switched to providing background vocals on several Jan & Dean album tracks. Meanwhile, she studied visual arts at the University of California at Los Angeles.\n\nIn 1963, Gibson appeared on the Jan & Dean track \"Surf Route 101\", and the next year she performed backing harmony on a song she wrote with Don and Horace Altfeld called \"When It's Over\" for a Jan & Dean album. She then recorded two vocal duets with Berry that she had written with Don Altfeld that year, \"It's As Easy As 1,2,3\" and \"A Surfer's Dream\". The tracks appeared on 2 different 1964 Jan & Dean albums.\n\nIn November 1963 ABC television aired a one-hour special called \"Celebrity Party\" hosted by Dick Clark and Donna Loren that included performances and/or appearances by Jill Gibson, Jan & Dean, The Beach Boys, Shelley Fabares, James Darren, Connie Francis, George Hamilton, Nancy Sinatra, The Challengers, Johnny Crawford, Deborah Walley, among others. It was sponsored by Dr Pepper.\n\nGibson released her first solo recording in 1964, a cover version of her own song \"It's As Easy As 1,2,3\" backed with \"Jilly's Flip Side\", written by P.F. Sloan with Steve Barri and issued on Imperial Records. Jan Berry produced and arranged both tracks. She also sang backup on Jan & Dean's hit \"Ride the Wild Surf.\" Gibson co-wrote the B-side single \"He Don't Love Me\" for Shelley Fabares' \"More Teenage Triangle\" LP in 1964 with Berry.\n\nIn July 1965, a hit song Gibson had co-written with Berry and Roger Christian, called \"You Really Know How to Hurt a Guy\", peaked at number 27 for Jan & Dean on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 singles chart.\n\nBy the time Gibson sang vocals on Jan & Dean's last studio album, \"Jan & Dean Meet Batman\", in 1966, her personal relationship with Berry was ending; they had gone their separate ways by the album's March 1966 release but remained friends. Shortly after their breakup, Berry was involved in a serious motor-vehicle accident on April 12, 1966, which he survived. Gibson often visited in the hospital during his long, difficult recovery. Later Gibson dated Lou Adler, whom she had known since 1959 when he was the executive producer and manager of Jan Berry and Dean Torrence. Adler had recently separated from his wife, actress and singer Shelley Fabares.\n\n\"Eleventh Minute\" was briefly released in 1997 as the B-side of a 45 rpm record on the Maltshop Records label. The licensed recording was soon withdrawn from sale (300 of the 500 red vinyl copies subsequently destroyed) due to questionable ownership of copyright and mechanical rights, as well as numerous label inaccuracies – most notably the performing artists are identified on the label of Maltshop 2 as \"Jody & Jill\". Furthermore, the A-side recording, \"Come On Baby\", was not the ballad demo offered to Liberty Records, but an up-tempo surf rocker by an unknown male singer and band.\n\nOn April 18, 2004 Jill Gibson was one of 400 invited guests who gathered at The Roxy Theatre in Hollywood, California, to celebrate Jan Berry's life and music at a tribute called \"Jan Berry: A Celebration of Life\". Other guests included Judy Lovejoy (her former singing partner), Dean Torrence, Don Altfeld (her former songwriting partner), Ann Marshall, Ryan O'Neal, Nancy Sinatra, Lou Adler, Lloyd Thaxton, Diane Rovell and Ginger Blake of The Honeys. The night featured live performances of Jan & Dean songs performed by artists who had once worked with Berry in the 1960s. The event had been planned by Berry's widow, Gertie, and Al Nassar.\n\nIn 2008, Jill Gibson recorded the duet ballad \"When It's Over\" with Cameron Michael Parkes for the Berry tribute album \"Encomium In Memoriam Vol. 1\". The song “When It’s Over” was originally written and recorded by Gibson with Jan Berry in 1964 that was issued as the B-side of Jan & Dean’s hit single \"Sidewalk Surfin’.”\n\nIt was through Adler that Gibson met the rock group The Mamas & the Papas, a highly successful band Adler produced in the late 1960s. Occasionally, Gibson would visit Lou Adler in the studio while he was producing the band, who had just begun work on a new album. Gibson found herself in the right place at the right time when the leader of the group, John Phillips, fired his wife, Michelle Gilliam Phillips, from the band on Saturday, June 4, 1966, for having had an affair with Gene Clark of The Byrds. Instead of the group breaking up, they asked Jill Gibson to join The Mamas & the Papas as their newest member \"Mama Jill\". Shortly after joining the band, The Mamas & the Papas, along with Lou Adler, left for Europe for several weeks to begin working together.\n\nArriving in London, England, Gibson, Cass Elliot, John Phillips, Denny Doherty, and Lou Adler rented the top half of a large house in Berkeley Square to work in (the downstairs part was rented to Mick Jagger and model Chrissie Shrimpton). Over the next three weeks Gibson rehearsed with the group in London for the recording of the band's upcoming second album and for a few live shows. While in England, the band had a series of business meetings, but still made time to party with John Lennon, Paul McCartney, Keith Richards, Brian Jones, and Mick Jagger at Dolly's (the private London rock club that catered to the stars). Upon returning to the United States, the group, their manager Bobby Roberts, their attorney Abe Somer, and their label Dunhill Records officially fired Michelle Phillips on Tuesday, June 28, 1966. Jill Gibson was hired two weeks earlier, just before the band left for England.\n\nBeginning in early July and continuing through part of August 1966, Gibson, Cass Elliot, Denny Doherty, John Phillips and Lou Adler recorded the band's second LP at Western Studios in Los Angeles, California with Bones Howe as the engineer. Fourteen tracks were recorded for the proposed second album, with twelve making the final cut. The first single \"I Saw Her Again\" was issued in late June but was recorded before Gibson was hired. The single peaked at number 5 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 on July 30, 1966, while Jill Gibson was a member of the band. The group had been in the middle of recording their sophomore album when Michelle Phillips was fired. Once Gibson was hired they re-recorded the songs and also recorded new tracks with her at Western Studios. It was decided the album would be called \"Crashon Screamon All Fall Down\" and was scheduled for a late August release. The American record-buying public had already ordered more than half a million advance copies of this album before it came out, and it was said to have been the most eagerly awaited record of that year.\n\nPrior to Michelle Phillips having been fired, the band was photographed for the cover of their second LP inside the window frame of an abandoned house in the desert. That was soon changed by their label Dunhill Records, which asked the original photographer, Guy Webster, to photograph Jill Gibson alone in exactly the same pose as Michelle and then superimpose Gibson's image over Phillips'. The record label was not satisfied with the finished product and therefore ordered Webster to shoot a totally new album cover. Webster's new cover showed Gibson, John Phillips, Denny Doherty, and Cass Elliot with a fan, in a field of grass beside a white picket fence. The label was pleased with the new cover and it was used to promote the new LP in music trade papers, as well as on large billboards across the country.\n\nA promotional campaign to introduce Gibson as the newest Mama soon followed, with articles in such publications as \"Newsweek\" magazine, which featured an article on the group referring to Gibson as \"skeletal, modish, blonde and beautiful\". Another article called \"New Mama is definitely Jill\" was published in \"Melody Maker\", followed by a cover story on Gibson that was featured in \"KRLA Beat\" with the headline reading \"Brand New Mama\". The new Mama also made several television show appearances with The Mamas & The Papas to promote their latest single, \"I Saw Her Again\".\n\nThe Mamas & the Papas hit the road with Gibson for a few concert dates, beginning on July 1 in Dallas, Texas (the Dallas show was supposed to be on June 18 but was postponed until July 1) and ending in Phoenix, Arizona. Other dates included Forest Hills, New York and Denver, Colorado. Simon & Garfunkel opened for the band on some of these dates. According to Gibson, things had gone smoothly. The fans seemed to have accepted her, she was comfortable performing on stage with the group, and she enjoyed singing all of the songs in the band's 40-minute set. Howevre, according to John Phillips and other sources, the chemistry within the group was not there with Gibson. In late August 1966, he decided it would be best to let Gibson go and to reinstate his wife Michelle Phillips. Michelle Phillips admitted that Gibson had sung well and had done a very good job as a member of The Mamas & The Papas.\n\nAccording to Jill Gibson, fans did not scream out for Mama Michelle during every live concert with her. It occurred only once, at a show in Forest Hills, New York, when a male fan shouted out, \"Where's Michelle?\" \"Billboard\" magazine, which reviewed the August 6, 1966 Forest Hills concert, said there were a number of hecklers in the audience.\n\nGibson was relieved to be free of the chaos that followed the supergroup, but she also felt betrayed by John Phillips. She had been told that her position in the group was permanent. The band and their label Dunhill Records gave Gibson an undisclosed lump sum for her three-month stint as Mama Jill. The album the group recorded with Gibson was pulled by the label to accommodate the return of Michelle Phillips. No copies of \"Crashon Screamon All Fall Down\" featuring Jill Gibson were officially released to the public, with only pre-release copies being circulated. The copies with Gibson are valuable collectibles today, and it is believed that anywhere from ten to twenty thousand were issued. The promo copies have the \"Crashon Screamon All Fall Down\" cover photo with the band and white picket fence.\n\nWith Michelle Phillips back in the mix, several tracks were re-recorded for the second album. The LP was renamed simply as \"The Mamas & the Papas\" and it hit the stores in September 1966, with Michelle Phillips' image on the cover. In 2002, Jill Gibson claimed that she recorded ten of the tracks for the second album, while Lou Adler claimed that same year she recorded only six of the songs, one being \"Trip, Stumble and Fall\". Session sheets of the recording dates note that Jill Gibson recorded seven songs. In 2006, Gibson said she still believed her voice remained on many of the songs. Michelle Phillips claimed she had no idea who sang on the album, while author Matthew Greenwald confirmed in his book that Jill Gibson recorded part of the LP and did, in fact, appear on several tracks on the final released version. The LP was certified Gold and peaked at number 4 on the \"Billboard\" 200 Albums Chart without Gibson receiving a Gold copy herself. A second single (not featuring Gibson), \"Words of Love\", was released from the LP and peaked at number 5 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in late 1966. The third single \"Dancing In the Street\" also did not feature Gibson. The fourth and final single from the album was \"Dancing Bear\", featuring Gibson, and peaked at number 51 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. \"Dancing Bear\" was released in 1967, a year after it was recorded.\n\nAfter having been ejected from The Mamas & the Papas, Gibson wrote the songs \"I've Got A Feeling For Love\" and \"How Can I Be Down\" with producer Gary Zekley for the psychedelic band The Yellow Balloon, and she performed background vocals for the band's one eponymous record. In 1966, she and Don Altfeld co-produced a cover version of the Bo Diddley song \"Who Do You Love?\" for the blues-rock group The Woolies.\n\nIn 2002, Gibson's past as a singing former Mama came briefly full circle when she recorded a cover version of \"California Dreamin'\" with San Francisco singer-guitarist Ace Andres for his \"Cowboy Hat Blues\" album. On that version of her former band's pop hit, the song was turned into a hard rock song.\n\nAround her time with the Mamas & the Papas, Gibson returned to photography, which she had begun to take seriously back in 1965 when she met photojournalist Ralph Gibson (no relation). During this same period, Gibson studied with Edmund Teske, a photographer working with the technique of solarization.\n\nIn June 1967 Gibson attended the first ever Monterey International Pop Festival with Lou Adler, where she was an invited member of the press. Over this three-day period in sunny Monterey, California, she photographed nearly every act on the bill, and her photographs of celebrities such as Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin, Jefferson Airplane, the Mamas & Papas, and Brian Jones have been published around the world. One of Gibson's photos of Jimi Hendrix made the front cover of \"Rolling Stone\" magazine. Gibson can be seen twice in the film version of this festival, \"Monterey Pop\", by D.A. Pennebaker.\n\nJill Gibson took the photographs for the psychedelic rock group Fever Tree's self-titled debut album cover and its liner pictures for the band's 1968 LP released on Uni Records.\n\nGibson and Adler would break up as a couple in late 1967. After briefly dating Elmer Valentine, owner of the Whiskey A Go-Go in Los Angeles, Gibson went to New York City to study art at the Art Student's League with classical artist Frank Mason. After two years there, and a short stint in New Mexico, she left for Florence, Italy in 1970. For the next five and a half years Gibson painted while living in the Tuscan hills, studying briefly at The Simi Studio in Florence before returning briefly to California in 1973. On that return visit Jill Gibson made her American debut as a painter where her art was showcased for the first time at the DeVorzon Gallery in Hollywood for a week, and such guests as Jack Nicholson, Roman Polanski, Lou Adler, and Michelle Phillips were in attendance. Lou Adler purchased an original Gibson painting for $450 at the time while Nicholson also purchased two originals.\n\nJill Gibson's developing style as an artist is influenced by her interest in Renaissance art, nature, and the feminine. Many of her original art works are in the private collections of Max Factor, Guy Webster, Michael Savage, The Seattle Museum, Jack Nicholson, and a fifteen-foot photo montage in The Los Angeles Free Clinic.\n\nToday, Jill Gibson is a full-time artist with her own studio, Gibson Artworks, in Marin. Over the last twenty-five years her art work has been displayed in galleries in Italy, the Netherlands, Germany, and in the US.\n\nHer paintings, sculptures, photography, planters, plaques, fountains, and bowls can be viewed on her official website. She divides her time between her homes in Oakland, Los Angeles, and San Mateo Rio Hondo, Oaxaca, Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120493", "title": "James Posey", "text": "James Posey\n\nJames Mikely Mantell Posey Jr. (born January 13, 1977) is an American former professional basketball player. He played the small forward position for the Denver Nuggets, the Miami Heat, the Boston Celtics, the New Orleans Hornets, and the Indiana Pacers in the National Basketball Association (NBA). Posey won NBA championships as a member of the 2006 Miami Heat and the 2008 Boston Celtics, respectively. He is also a former assistant coach for the Cleveland Cavaliers of the NBA.\n\nAfter attending High School in Twinsburg, Ohio, Posey came to Xavier University in the 1995–96 season, but under Prop 48 rules, was ineligible, so sat out his freshman year. Posey ranks 16th on Xavier's all-time scoring list with 1,455 points and 10th on Xavier's all-time rebounding list with 801. Posey led XU in rebounding in each of his three seasons as a Musketeer. Posey earned a long list of honors while at Xavier, including the 1998 Atlantic 10 Championship \"Most Outstanding Player\" Award in helping XU win its first-ever A-10 Tournament Championship. Posey earned the A-10's \"Sixth Man Award\" twice and was named 1999 A-10 First Team and 1999 A-10 Defensive Player of the Year. He did all of that while not being a consistent starter in the Xavier lineup, almost always coming off the bench and Posey became well sought after from several sports agents such as Bill Duffy, Andy Miller, Craig McKenzie and Mark Bartelstein. With their permission Posey allowed his interviews to be held in front of the media of the Cincinnati Enquirer.\n\nPosey was selected out of Xavier University by the Denver Nuggets with the 18th pick of the 1999 NBA draft. He played a little over three seasons with the team before being sent to the Houston Rockets in a three-team deal also involving the Philadelphia 76ers on December 18, 2002.\n\nAfter finishing the season with the Rockets, he signed with the Memphis Grizzlies as a free agent in the 2003 off-season.\n\nOn August 2, 2005, Posey was involved in the largest trade in NBA history, which involved 13 players and five different teams. Through this trade, the Miami Heat acquired point guard Jason Williams, forward Antoine Walker, shooting guard Andre Emmett, and the draft rights to Roberto Dueñas. The Memphis Grizzlies received shooting guard Eddie Jones, and point guard Raúl López. Boston, who dealt Walker to the Heat, received a package that included Qyntel Woods, the draft rights to Albert Miralles, two second-round draft picks, and cash. The Boston Celtics also picked up Curtis Borchardt. Utah was able to acquire center Greg Ostertag, and the New Orleans Hornets acquired small forward Rasual Butler and shooting guard Kirk Snyder. Posey averaged 7.8 points and 4.8 rebounds per game in 2005–06.\n\nAfter that somewhat disappointing regular season with Miami, Posey performed much better in the playoffs than expected. He had been a starter during the regular season, but head coach Pat Riley made the change of having Posey come off the bench for the playoffs. As the Heat's sixth man, Posey was able to average 11.8 points per game on 48.8% shooting against Miami's first-round opponent, the Chicago Bulls. Against Miami's second-round opponent, the New Jersey Nets, Posey was forced to play defense, particularly guarding Vince Carter or Richard Jefferson. Although Posey's scoring dropped, his defense was said to have been the key to the Heat's advancement into the conference finals.\n\nPosey again had to focus on defense against Miami's third-round opponent, the Detroit Pistons, particularly guarding Richard Hamilton, Tayshaun Prince, and even sometimes Chauncey Billups or Rasheed Wallace. Posey's defense was able to take the pressure off of Miami's scorers like Dwyane Wade, Jason Williams and Antoine Walker so that they could focus on their strengths on the offensive end.\n\nIn the 2006 NBA Finals against the Dallas Mavericks, Posey was a key factor on both ends of the court. Defensively, he, along with Udonis Haslem, provided tough defense on the Mavericks All-Star, Dirk Nowitzki. He also guarded Josh Howard, who had caused problems for Miami when Antoine Walker was guarding him. On the offensive end, Posey played a huge role in knocking down shots as a result of Miami's All-Stars, Wade and Shaquille O'Neal, being double-teamed and needing to pass the ball. In Game 4 of the Finals, Posey was very impressive in Miami's blowout, scoring 15 points and grabbing 10 rebounds. In Game 6, Posey hit a huge shot to give Miami an 87–81 advantage with four minutes remaining; Miami would win the game 95–92. Posey averaged 7.3 points and 6 rebounds in the Finals.\n\nOn July 1, 2006, Posey exercised his $6.4 million contract option, opting not to become a free agent. He only played in 4 playoff games in the 2006–07 season, because the Heat were eliminated in the first round.\n\nOn August 25, 2007, Posey signed with the Boston Celtics, adding to their revamped roster, including newcomers Kevin Garnett and Ray Allen. Terms of the deal were roughly $6.67 million over 2 years, with the second year being Posey's option. In the 2008 NBA Finals, Posey would win his second NBA championship, once again helping his team with tough defense and timely baskets at crunch time. On June 30, 2008, in a widely anticipated move, Posey opted out of the second and final year of his contract with the Celtics and became an unrestricted free agent, but had stated that he wanted to return to the Celtics on a new contract.\n\nOn July 16, 2008, Posey signed with the New Orleans Hornets, accepting a four-year deal worth about $25 million.\n\nOn August 11, 2010, New Orleans sent Posey, along with Darren Collison, to the Pacers in a four-team, five-player trade with the New Jersey Nets and the Houston Rockets. On December 12, 2011, Posey was amnestied by the Pacers.\n\nIn September 2013, Posey was hired by the Canton Charge as an assistant coach for the 2013–14 season.\n\nOn August 19, 2014, Posey was hired by the Cleveland Cavaliers as an assistant coach for the 2014–15 season. In his second season with the Cavaliers, the team earned the 2016 NBA Finals Championship over the 73-win Golden State Warriors.\n\nOn April 9, 2007, Posey was arrested on a DUI charge and was taken to Dade County Jail. However, Posey continued playing with the Heat and coach Pat Riley stated he would support Posey.\n\nPosey was suspended for the opener of the 2007–08 season by NBA commissioner David Stern after his no contest plea to reckless driving stemming from the DUI incident.\n\nAs a member of the Miami Heat, Posey had been involved in several controversial incidents with the Chicago Bulls.\nIn Game 3 of the Chicago Bulls – Miami Heat first round match Kirk Hinrich was moving down the court when Posey hit Hinrich with a hard shoulder block knocking Hinrich down to the floor, was called for a Flagrant-2 Foul, and was ejected from the game. When asked about the shot to Hinrich, Posey responded, \"I was just trying to get back on defense and cut the ball off.\" \"He didn't see me and that's how collisions happen. That's all it was.\" When asked if he thought Posey was looking for trouble, Hinrich said, \"I don't know. Maybe he was. I guess he just wanted to make a hard foul. Sometimes that's part of the game.\" The shot would also lead to Posey getting suspended for 1 game.\n\nIn the season opener of the 2006–07 NBA season, Posey was involved with another incident with Bulls rookie Tyrus Thomas, who was going for the rebound, was hit in the face by Posey which led to Thomas having his nose broken and missing a few games, and having to wear a protective mask for multiple games.\n\nIn this, his third incident with the Bulls at the United Center, Posey was ejected from the game with 7:16 remaining in the fourth quarter on December 27, 2006. Luol Deng, who attempted a layup, was fouled by Posey in mid-air. Deng fell hard on his wrist, which he had had surgery on just a year earlier, but it was not broken. Posey was called for a flagrant-2 foul and ejected. Posey was suspended for 1 game as a result of his infraction.\n\nIn March 2008, Posey's girlfriend gave birth to daughter, Sai Aleke, in the Washington, D.C. area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120494", "title": "Godzilla, King of the Monsters!", "text": "Godzilla, King of the Monsters!\n\nGodzilla, King of the Monsters! is a 1956 \"kaiju\" film directed by Terry O. Morse and Ishirō Honda. It is a heavily re-edited American adaptation, commonly referred to as an \"Americanization\", of the 1954 Japanese film \"Godzilla\". The film was a Japanese-American co-production, with the original footage produced by Toho, and the new footage produced by Jewell Enterprises. The film stars Raymond Burr, Frank Iwanaga, along with Akira Takarada, Momoko Kōchi, Akihiko Hirata, and Takashi Shimura, with Haruo Nakajima and Katsumi Tezuka as Godzilla. In the film, an American reporter covers a giant reptilian monster's attack on Japan.\n\nIn 1955, Edmund Goldman acquired the 1954 film from Toho and enlisted the aid of Paul Schreibman, Harold Ross, Richard Kay, and Joseph E. Levine to produce a revised version for American audiences. This version dubbed most of the Japanese dialogue into English, altered and removed key plot points and themes, and added new footage with Burr narrating most of the film and interacting with body-doubles and Japanese-American actors in an attempt to make it seem like Burr was part of the original Japanese production.\n\n\"Godzilla, King of the Monsters!\" was theatrically released in the United States on April 27, 1956 and theatrically released in Japan on May 29, 1957, with the English dialogue subtitled in Japanese. The film was responsible for introducing international audiences to the character Godzilla, as the 1954 Japanese version remained unavailable overseas until 2004.\n\nInjured American reporter Steve Martin is brought from the ruins of Tokyo to a hospital filled with maimed and wounded citizens. A recent acquaintance, Emiko, discovers him by chance among the victims and attempts to find a doctor for him. Martin recalls in flashback stopping over in Tokyo, where a series of inexplicable ship disasters catches his attention. When a victim of those disasters washes up on Odo Island, Martin flies there for the story, along with security officer Tomo Iwanaga. There he learns of the island inhabitants' long-held belief in a sea monster god known as \"Godzilla\", which they believe is causing the disasters. That night, a storm strikes the island, destroying many houses and killing some villagers. The islanders believe that Godzilla is responsible for the destruction.\n\nMartin returns to the island with Dr. Yamane, who is leading a team to investigate its ruins. Huge radioactive footprints and a prehistoric trilobite are discovered. An alarm rings and Martin, the villagers, and Dr. Yamane's team head up a hill for safety. Near the summit, they encounter Godzilla and quickly flee downhill. Dr. Yamane later returns to Tokyo and deduces that Godzilla is 400 feet tall and was resurrected by repeated H-bomb tests in the Pacific. To Yamane's dismay, the military responds by attempting to kill the creature with depth charges. Martin contacts his old friend, Dr. Daisuke Serizawa, for dinner, but Serizawa declines due to planned commitments with his fiancé and Dr. Yamane's daughter, Emiko.\n\nEmiko goes to Serizawa's home to break off her arranged engagement to him because she is actually in love with Hideo Ogata, a salvage ship captain. Dr. Serizawa, however, gives her a demonstration of his secret project, which horrifies her. She is sworn to secrecy and unable to bring herself to break off the engagement. Godzilla surfaces from Tokyo Bay, unharmed by the depth charges, and attacks the city, destroying a train before returning to the bay. The next morning, the JSDF supercharges the tall electrical towers along Tokyo's coast to repel the monster.\n\nGodzilla resurfaces that night and breaks through the electrical towers and JSDF defense line using his atomic heat breath. Martin documents Godzilla's rampage via tape recorder and is injured during the attack. Godzilla returns to the sea and the flashback ends. Martin wakes up in the hospital with Emiko and Ogata. Horrified by the destruction, Emiko reveals to them the existence of Dr. Serizawa's Oxygen Destroyer, which disintegrates oxygen atoms in salt water and causes all marine organisms to die of acidic asphyxiation. Emiko and Ogata go to Dr. Serizawa to convince him to use his weapon on Godzilla, but he initially refuses. After watching a television broadcast showing the nation's plight, Serizawa finally gives in to their pleas.\n\nA Navy ship takes Ogata, Serizawa, Yamame, Martin, and Emiko out to the deepest part of Tokyo Bay. Ogata and Serizawa are lowered down by lifelines near Godzilla to plant the weapon. Ogata is pulled up, but Serizawa delays his ascent and activates the device. He radios the surface of its success and wishes Emiko and Ogata happiness together. Serizawa cuts his lifeline, taking the secret of his invention to the grave. Godzilla succumbs to the Oxygen Destroyer, dissolving his body and bones. All aboard the ship mourn the loss of Dr. Serizawa. Martin reflects that the world can \"live again\" due to Serizawa's sacrifice.\n\nProduction credits\n\n\nIn 1955, Edmund Goldman approached Toho International Inc., (a Los Angeles-based subsidiary created to distribute Toho films overseas) about purchasing the rights to \"Godzilla\". Toho had shown Goldman advertisement materials, which interested him in a screening of the film. Goldman then made Toho an offer of $25,000, which they accepted quickly. The contract was forged on September 27, 1955. The contract stipulated that Toho and Goldman agreed that the film would be \"narrated, dubbed in English and completed in accordance with the revisions, additions, and deletions,\" with final approval by Toho. \n\nPaul Schreibman assisted in the film's acquisition. Samuel Z. Arkoff of American International Pictures also made a bid for the film, negotiating with Toho for three months until he discovered the rights were already sold to Goldman. Goldman enlisted the help of Harold Ross (sometimes credited as Henry Rybnick) and Richard Kay of Jewell Enterprises to distribute the film. According to Goldman, it was Ross and Kay's idea to dub the film and hire Raymond Burr. Goldman would later sell his interest to Jewell Enterprises.\n\nRoss and Kay turned to Joseph E. Levine to further finance the project. The duo arranged a screening of the film for Levine in Los Angeles. The film's possibilities excited Levine and paid $100,000 for half of the rights. This arrangement allowed the rights to \"Godzilla\" to be split between Jewell Enterprises and Levine's Embassy Pictures. Levine enlisted Edward Barison to create Trans World Releasing Corp., to distribute the film. Levine also enlisted producer Terry Turner to develop promotional strategies. Turner managed to get the film mentioned by Steve Allen on \"The Tonight Show\". Levine and Turner initially considered the title \"Godzilla, the Sea Beast\" but eventually settled on \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters\". Ross and Kay hired Terry O. Morse to direct the film. Schreibman had arranged for Burr to participate in the film. Morse was paid $10,000 for re-writing and directing the film and Burr was paid the same amount for a single day's work.\n\nAlterations and new footage with Burr interacting with body doubles were produced in order to appeal to American audiences, as foreign films held no appeal to the mainstream public at the time. Morse viewed the original Japanese cut, with an English translation of the script, to find key scenes to insert Burr. Rather than dub the entire film, Morse chose to retain most of the original Japanese dialogue and have Frank Iwanaga translate, albeit inaccurately, those scenes and alternate with Burr narrating. Burr worked with body-doubles, who were filmed over their shoulder to conceal their faces. Editing techniques were also used to mask the body-doubles and the original Japanese actors. Asian-American extras were hired to play minor roles. The new footage was filmed in three days on a rented soundstage at Visual Drama Inc. Since he was contracted for only one day, Burr was forced to work a 24-hour shift in order to shoot all his scenes. Set decorator George Rohr provided mock-up sets that resembled the sets in the original Japanese cut. Overt references to the atomic bomb and hydrogen bomb, such as the bombing of Nagasaki, the Bikini Island tests, radioactive contamination of tuna by American and Russian bomb tests, were omitted.\n\nThe dubbing required for the entire film was recorded in under five hours. James Hong and the other voice actors were not given any details of the film's production. The voice actors were locked in a room with Morse and were told to read for every role. Each line was recorded at different speeds and the best one was chosen to match the footage. The voice actors never saw the film as they recorded their lines. The voice actors dubbed the entire film sitting at a table with a microphone before them. Hong confirmed that a number of Japanese actors auditioned for the voice-over job. However, Hong and Sammee Tong were hired due to their versatility. Tong recorded six voices (older characters) while Hong recorded seven voices (younger characters).\n\n\"Godzilla, King of the Monsters!\" opened on April 4, 1956 in Loew's State Theater in New York City and theatrically released in the United States on April 27, 1956, on a double-bill with \"Prehistoric Women\". The film was released to 283 theaters in Boston. The film grossed $2 million during its initial theatrical run. The film earned a $200,000 profit for its producers. The TV rights were then sold to RKO and the film made its broadcast debut in 1959 on KHJ-TV in Los Angeles. \n\nThe film was theatrically released in Japan on May 29, 1957 as \"Kaiju Ō Godzilla\" (Monster King Godzilla) to a positive reception from Japanese audiences, with the English dialogue subtitled in Japanese. The film was the first Japanese film to become a commercial success in the United States and was the fourth foreign film, at the time, to have grossed passed $1 million at the American box office. Goldman originally acquired the film to distribute in American and Canadian markets, however, due to the film’s commercial success, foreign distributors became interested in acquiring the American cut. As a result, Trans World renegotiated with Toho to license the American cut to foreign markets.\n\n\"New York Times\" film critic Bosley Crowther gave the film a bad review, dismissing it with: \"Godzilla', produced in a Japanese studio, is an incredibly awful film\". After complaining about the dubbing, the special effects (\"a miniature of a dinosaur\") and the similarity to \"King Kong\", he concluded, \"The whole thing is in the category of cheap cinematic horror-stuff, and it is too bad that a respectable theater has to lure children and gullible grown-ups with such fare\".\n\nOn the film's alterations, film critic Danny Peary accused the producers of making \"deletions that arouse suspicions regarding the cover up of references to damage done by the A-bomb.\" Film critic Tim Lucas noted, \"Much has been done to Americanize the Godzilla series over the decades, much of it inane and destructive, but the craft and cleverness that went into \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters!\" is immediately apparent.\" Over the years, original director Ishirō Honda was asked by film historians if the alterations made by the American version without his permission had offended him. Honda found the alterations amusing, stating that his film was \"trying to imitate American monster movies.\"\n\nIn writing for Ritual and Event, Aaron Kerner stated, \"the 1956 \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters\" transforms \"Gojira\" into a run of the mill science fiction film.\" William Tsutsui criticized the film for watering down the original themes, stating, \"although \"Gojira\" was not exactly eviscerated in this transition, with the terrifying charm of the monster thankfully surviving the cinematic surgery, much of the emotional power, intellectual depth, social relevance, and visceral impact of \"Gojira\" was lost in its translation to US movie screens.\" \n\nAuthor David Kalat felt that Burr’s narration during Godzilla’s rampage improves upon the original scene, stating, “Burr’s speeches here are chilling, and memorable.” Kalat further praised how the narration renders Burr’s character as impotent, stating, “not even the American hero can save the day this time.”\n\n\"Godzilla, King of the Monsters!\" was released on DVD and VHS by Simitar in 1998 and on DVD and VHS by Classic Media in 2002. \n\nIn 2006, Classic Media and Sony BMG Music Entertainment Home Entertainment released a two-disc DVD set titled \"Gojira: The Original Japanese Masterpiece\". This release features both the original 1954 Japanese \"Gojira\" film and the 1956 American \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters!\" version, making the original Japanese version of the film available on DVD in North America for the first time. This release features theatrical trailers for both films, audio commentary tracks on both films with Godzilla scholars Steve Ryfle (author of \"Japan’s Favorite Mon-Star: The Unauthorized Biography of the Big G\") and Ed Godziszewski (editor of \"Japanese Giants Magazine\"), two 13-minute documentaries titled \"Godzilla Story Development\" and \"Making of the Godzilla Suit,\" and a 12-page essay booklet by Steve Ryfle. This release also restores the original ending credits of the American film which, until recently, were thought to have been lost.\n\nIn 2012, the Criterion Collection released a \"new high-definition digital restoration\" of \"Godzilla\" on Blu-ray and DVD. This release includes a remaster of the 1956 American version, \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters\", as well as other special features such as interviews with Akira Ikufube, Japanese film critic Tadao Sato, actor Akira Takarada, Godzilla performer Haruo Nakajima, effects technicians Yoshio Irie and Eizo Kaimai and audio commentaries on both films by David Kalat, author of \"A Critical History and Filmography of Toho’s Godzilla Series.\" \n\nIn 2014, Classic Media reissued \"Gojira\" and \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters!\" in a 2-disc DVD release, to commemorate the release of Legendary's \"Godzilla\" film. This release retained the same specs and features as the 2006 DVD release. In 2019, the film was included as part of a Blu-ray box set released by the Criterion Collection, which included all 15 films from the franchise's Shōwa era.\n\nIn 1977, Italian filmmaker Luigi Cozzi released to Italian theaters a further modified and colorized version of \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters\", with a soundtrack that used a magnetic tape process similar to Sensurround. Though the Italian colorized version was released as \"Godzilla\", it is referred to by fans, and Cozzi himself, as \"Cozzilla\". Cozzi coined the title \"Cozzilla\" as a pen-name when he was writing for magazines, and later adopted it as the production company name for re-releasing the film. According to Cozzi, Toho had licensed the colorized version to Turkey. Cozzi noted that his colorization was the first attempt ever done at colorizing a black-and-white film. \n\nDue to the success of the 1976 remake of \"King Kong\", Cozzi attempted to cash in on the film's success by re-releasing \"Gorgo\". Cozzi, however, was unable to acquire the film because \"the King Brothers asked for too much money\". Cozzi then chose \"Godzilla\" as a second option. He originally intended to acquire the original 1954 Japanese cut, but Toho was only able to provide negatives for the 1956 American version. Cozzi's regional distributors refused to release it after discovering the film was in black-and-white, so he chose to colorize the film to secure its release. Cozzi renegotiated with Toho, gaining their approval. Included in the new deal was that Toho retained sole ownership of the colorized negative. Cozzi had final approval over the stock footage, music, and the colorization. At the time, theatrical films were required to run 90 minutes. Therefore, Cozzi was \"forced\" to add the stock footage to extend the film's runtime: \"The decision to insert extra footage was because the original picture was 1 hour and 20 minutes. This was normal length in the fifties but in the mid seventies a picture to be shown theatrically had to be at least 1 hour and 30 minutes long. So we were forced to add material to it in order to reach that length. Its final length was 1 hour and 45 minutes\".\n\nThe decision to specifically add real footage of death and destruction from war-time film reels was intentional on Cozzi's part. Cozzi wanted to give an old film an \"up-to-date and more violent look\". While editing the film, Cozzi was aware that certain stock footage didn't match the Godzilla footage, but he chose to proceed, feeling that the \"effect would have been stronger than the defects\". Additional footage was recycled from \"The Train\" and \"The Day the Earth Caught Fire\". Cozzi added brief clips from \"The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms\" and \"Godzilla Raids Again\" as tributes, taken from his personal 16mm prints. He coined the term \"Spectrorama 70\" for advertising purposes, the term referring to colorization and the feeling of 70mm. Cozzi stated that it \"helped to give a 'bigger' look at my \"Godzilla\" theatrical re-release advertising materials\".\n\nFor the soundtrack, Cozzi reprocessed the original 1956 soundtrack, turning it into a eight-track magnetic band stereophonic variation by adding new music and sound effects. Cozzi later added Sensurround effects and special giant loudspeakers to the theaters playing the film. Using the pseudonym \"Magnetic System\", Vince Tempera composed the film's additional score using his personal electric piano. Cozzi hired Tempera after he expressed interest in collaborating on a project. Tempera immediately accepted due to his being a fan of Godzilla. Cozzi selected synth music because he wanted the score to give his version of the film a \"modern look\" and have audiences see the difference between the new scenes and the originals. During the film's opening weekend, Tempera's additional score was released as a 45 rpm record. It was later released as a 33 rpm LP.\n\nCozzi hired Enzo Nistri to paint a new poster for the colorized release (Nistri's poster was later used on the cover of Fangoria magazine). Cozzi hired Armando Valcauda to do the colorization of the film, while Alberto Moro, Cozzi's mentor, was hired to edit the film. It was colorized frame-by-frame using stop motion gel photography. The process took only three months, as they were in a rush to release the film. Valcauda did all the colorization himself, while Cozzi edited the film with Moro. Cozzi noted that Yamato Video in Milan owns one new 35mm print of the colorized version, as well as an original colorized 35mm film negative, acquired from Toho. Yamato planned to release the 1954 Japanese cut, the 1956 American cut, and the 1977 Italian color cut on DVD. Those plans, however, were abandoned after the DVD release of the 1954 cut flopped financially.\n\nWhile the 1954 Japanese version is credited for starting the franchise and establishing the template for \"tokusatsu\" filmmaking, \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters!\" was responsible for introducing international audiences to the character Godzilla. The Japanese version was unavailable overseas until 2004, when it was given a limited theatrical run in North America to commemorate the franchise's 50th anniversary. In 1982, a subtitled version of the Japanese cut was screen in New York and Chicago film festivals honoring Takeshi Shimura's work. After the release of the 1956 American version, Toho adopted the moniker \"King of the Monsters\" in publicity materials. The moniker was used as the title for the and as the title for . Subsequent Godzilla films featured reporters as the leads. Author David Kalat credits Burr for this trend, stating, \"these reporter heroes may owe their prominence to the legacy of Raymond Burr's Steve Martin.\"\n\nIn 1985, New World Pictures released \"Godzilla 1985\", an American adaptation of Toho's \"The Return of Godzilla\". Like \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters!\", it used footage from the Toho film, with added footage shot in Hollywood, and the dialog re-recorded in English. Raymond Burr reprised his role as Steve Martin, acting as an adviser to the Pentagon, but did not interact within the main story as he had done in \"King of the Monsters\". \"The Return of Godzilla\" was a sequel to the original 1954 film, and \"Godzilla 1985\" served as a sequel to \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters!\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120504", "title": "Philadelphia and Delaware County Railroad", "text": "Philadelphia and Delaware County Railroad\n\nPhiladelphia and Delaware County Railroad may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2120517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120517", "title": "Duszniki", "text": "Duszniki\n\nDuszniki may refer to the following places:\n"}
{"id": "2120523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120523", "title": "Gary Zimmerman", "text": "Gary Zimmerman\n\nGary Wayne Zimmerman (born December 13, 1961) is a former American football offensive tackle in the National Football League. Zimmerman played for the Minnesota Vikings from 1986 to 1992 and for the Denver Broncos from 1993 to 1997. He won Super Bowl XXXII with the Broncos against the Green Bay Packers. He was selected to the Pro Bowl seven times and was an All-Pro selection eight times. He attended Walnut High School and the University of Oregon whereby he was inducted into the Oregon Sports Hall of Fame in 2002.\n\nIn 1984, Zimmerman was drafted in the second round (36th overall) by the Los Angeles Express in the 1984 USFL Draft. He subsequently signed with the Express on February 13, 1984 and went on to play in 17 games that season, starting all 17 at left tackle. His Express teammate was future Pro Football Hall of Famer, QB Steve Young. The Express lost in the USFL Semi-Finals to the Arizona Wranglers to end a 10-8 regular season. In 1985, Zimmerman suited up again with the Express, playing in 18 games (starting 17) with a 3-15 club that ended up out of the USFL playoff picture.\n\nAfter the USFL folded in August 1986, Zimmerman joined the Minnesota Vikings after they obtained his rights from the New York Giants who drafted him in the 1984 NFL Supplemental Draft of USFL and CFL Players.\n\nDuring his time in the NFL, Zimmerman was famous for his refusal to interact with the media. This disdain for the sports press came about due to an early incident in his NFL career, after comments made by Zimmerman condemning the Vikings offensive players for a loss were made public by the media. Zimmerman claimed that his teammates ostracized him for speaking ill of his teammates performance; this led Zimmerman to decide to boycott the sports media as a result, refusing to do interviews or engage in any sort of interaction with them for the rest of his career.\n\nZimmerman ultimately left the Vikings for the Broncos in 1993, and stayed with the team from 1993-1997. He would be part of the team's first Super Bowl-winning squad, winning the game in 1997 and was \"in spirit\" for the 1998 season. Arriving as the veteran player in 1993 to an offense that was made up of mostly rookies, Zimmerman became the \"de facto\" leader of the Broncos offensive line on and off the field. Zimmerman started the Denver offensive line tradition of not speaking to the media. It became a long running tradition that would continue on a full decade after his retirement in 1997. In 2007 the NFL created “The Broncos O-line rule\" in response, requiring all players to talk to the media.\n\nHe played in 184 NFL games, starting 169 of them.\n\nOn February 2, 2008, he was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame.\n\nZimmerman joins Reggie White, Steve Young, Jim Kelly, Marv Levy, George Allen, Bill Polian, and Sid Gillman as former USFL/AFL league members who are enshrined in the Pro Football Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "2120524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120524", "title": "Karlovy Vary District", "text": "Karlovy Vary District\n\nKarlovy Vary District or Carlsbad District () is a district (\"okres\") within the Karlovy Vary Region of the Czech Republic. Its administrative center is Karlovy Vary.\n\nAbertamy - \nAndělská Hora - \nBečov nad Teplou - \nBochov - \nBoží Dar - \nBožičany - \nBražec -\nBřezová - \nČernava - \nChodov - \nChyše - \nČichalov - \nDalovice - \nDěpoltovice - \nHájek - \nHorní Blatná - \nHory - \nHroznětín - \nJáchymov - \nJenišov - \nKarlovy Vary - \nKolová - \nKrásné Údolí - \nKrásný Les - \nKyselka - \nMerklín - \nMírová - \nNejdek - \nNová Role - \nNové Hamry - \nOstrov - \nOtovice - \nOtročín - \nPernink - \nPila - \nPotůčky - \nPšov - \nSadov - \nŠemnice - \nSmolné Pece -\nStanovice - \nŠtědrá - \nStráž nad Ohří - \nStružná - \nTeplá -\nTeplička - \nToužim - \nÚtvina - \nValeč - \nVelichov - \nVerušičky - \nVojkovice - \nVrbice - \nVysoká Pec - \nŽlutice\n\nPart of the district area belongs to Military Area Hradiště.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120534", "title": "Washington State Route 512", "text": "Washington State Route 512\n\nState Route 512 (SR 512) is a suburban state-maintained freeway in Pierce County, Washington, United States. It travels from west to east, connecting Interstate 5 (I-5) in Lakewood to SR 7 in Parkland and SR 167 in Puyallup.\n\nSR 512 originally began as county roads until 1937, when it became Secondary State Highway 5G (SSH 5G) and ran from (PSH 5) in Puyallup west to south of Tacoma. In a 1964 state highway renumbering, SSH 5G became SR 512 and by 1972, the original 2-lane road was expanded to a four-lane divided freeway. Recent proposals to control growing traffic on the freeway have included interchange upgrades and high-occupancy vehicle lanes (HOV lanes).\n\nSR 512 begins at a partial cloverleaf interchange with I-5 in Lakewood, a suburb of Tacoma in the Seattle metropolitan area. The interchange only uses three cloverleaf ramps, with turns from southbound I-5 to eastbound SR 512 accessed via a traffic signal; beyond the interchange, the highway continues west to an intersection with South Tacoma Way. The six-lane freeway travels southeast along the north side of Joint Base Lewis–McChord and through an interchange with Steele Street before entering the suburban community of Parkland. SR 512 then intersects Pacific Avenue, carrying a section of SR 7, in a partial cloverleaf interchange located near the Pacific Lutheran University campus.\n\nThe freeway continues east with four lanes through Midland, passing under overpasses for school buses and the Tacoma Rail system, before reaching an interchange with Portland Avenue near Franklin Pierce High School. SR 512 then crosses over Swan Creek and enters the exurban area of Summit, passing residential subdivisions and farms surrounding an interchange with Canyon Road, which leads to the Frederickson industrial area. The freeway travels into Puyallup and intersects 94th Avenue East on the west side of the South Hill Mall. It then turns north and reaches a partial cloverleaf interchange with SR 161 at 31st Avenue Southwest, marking the beginning of a concurrency between the two state routes.\n\nSR 512 and SR 161 continue north through the residential neighborhoods of Puyallup before reaching the Washington State Fairgrounds and turning east to intersect Meridian Street. The freeway travels east around downtown Puyallup and intersects Pioneer Avenue before crossing over the BNSF Railway's Seattle Subdivision tracks and the Puyallup River. SR 512 terminates shortly after crossing the river at a trumpet interchange with SR 167. SR 161 travels west with SR 167 to an intersection with Meridian Avenue, which it follows to Federal Way; SR 167 continues east to Sumner before turning north onto the Valley Freeway.\n\nSR 512 is maintained by the Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT), which conducts an annual survey on state highways to measure traffic volume in terms of average annual daily traffic. Average traffic volumes on the highway in 2016 ranged from a minimum of 44,000 vehicles at its eastern terminus with SR 167 to a maximum of 110,000 near its western terminus at I-5. The entire route of SR 512 is designated as part of the National Highway System, a national network of roads identified as important to the national economy, defense, and mobility, and is listed as a Highway of Statewide Significance by the state legislature.\n\nThe first road to connect Fort Steilacoom and southern Tacoma to the Puyallup Valley was Byrd's Mill Road, established in 1852 and designated by the Oregon territorial government as an official government road. It was later upgraded into a military road and designated as a state historical road in 1941 by the Washington state government. At the turn of the 20th century, Lakeview (now Lakewood) was connected to Parkland and Puyallup by a series of country roads that were straightened in the early 1910s to form 112th Street South. These roads became Secondary State Highway 5G (SSH 5G), which ran from (PSH 5) in Puyallup south to and west past the Tacoma–Mount Rainier branch of PSH 5 to south of Tacoma.\n\nWashington renumbered its highways in 1964 and SSH 5G was assigned to become SR 512 when the new system took effect in 1970. In 1970, the new system of state routes took effect and SR 512 was officially established; at the time, it was a freeway west of Vickery Avenue, continuing to Puyallup on 112th Street. By 1972, the highway was expanded and reconstructed to become a divided freeway. The original path is approximately SR 512 from South Tacoma Way to Steele Street, Steele Street to 112th Street, then 112th Street into Puyallup, where it turns into 39th Ave to Meridian, where the original route is lost to improvements, but the route would continue on to Shaw Road. The interchange with Pacific Avenue was rebuilt in the late 1980s.\n\nIn 2002, the interchange with Interstate 5 was modified from a full cloverleaf to a partial cloverleaf. The Southbound I-5 cloverleaf to SR 512 eastbound was removed. The Southbound to Westbound ramp was modified to accommodate for left turns onto eastbound 512 by adding a traffic signal. There were other planned improvements, but due to tax revenue shortfalls, the rest was shelved. In the future, WSDOT plans to again reconstruct this interchange and at least Steele Street interchange as part of the Interstate 5 HOV project.\n\nDue to congestion near the South Hill Mall in Puyallup, WSDOT is studying improvements to two interchanges on SR 512, including auxiliary lanes, loop ramps, and flyover ramps.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120536", "title": "Dave Culross", "text": "Dave Culross\n\nDave Culross (born March 9, 1974 in Rochester, New York) is an American drummer. He was a member of Malevolent Creation, Culross has played drums in many death metal bands, such as Suffocation, Mortician, Incantation, HatePlow, Pyrexia, Gorgasm, and Disgorged.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120540", "title": "Laptop cooler", "text": "Laptop cooler\n\nA laptop/notebook cooler, cooler pad or chill mat is an accessory for laptop computers that prevent overheating in laptops and help reduce their operating temperature, which is normally used when the laptop is unable to sufficiently cool itself. Laptop coolers are intended to protect both the laptop from overheating and the user from suffering heat-related discomfort. A cooling pad may house active or passive cooling methods and rests beneath the laptop. Active coolers move air or liquid to direct heat away from the laptop quickly, while passive methods may rely on thermally conductive materials or increasing passive airflow.\n\nActive coolers use small fans to generate additional airflow around the body of the laptop. This helps convect heat away from the device. The number of laptop cooler fans usually range from 1 to 6. Many cooler pads support the use of a power adapter, though they typically run on power drawn through one of the laptop's USB ports. Additionally, many cooler pads come with a built-in USB hub, so as not to consume one of the laptop's often limited number of USB ports.\n\nSome active coolers draw heat from the underside of the computer; others work in the opposite way – by blowing cool air towards the machine. The fan speed is adjusted manually or automatically on certain models and on others stays at a fixed speed.\n\nPoorly designed coolers may use fans which draw more current than allowed by the USB standard. Without correct protection, such devices can cause damage to the USB power supply.\n\nInside the laptop, the USB power-supply has to output an additional amount of watts for the USB-powered fan, thus generating a small amount of additional heat. This additional heat generation is usually insignificant in relation to the amount of heat a fan moves away from the laptop.\n\nTypically, a conductive cooling pad allows for the cooling of a laptop without using any power. These \"pads\" are normally filled with an organic salt compound that allows them to absorb the heat from the laptop. They are good for a limited amount of time from around 6–8 hours of cooling. Other designs are simply a pad that elevates the laptop so that the fans in the laptop are allowed greater airflow.\n\nThe conductive cooling pads are not advisable for laptops that have fan vents built into the bottom as the cooling pad blocks the vents leading to overheating or premature system failure. The best way to determine if a cooling pad would be suitable for a particular laptop would be to take a look at the bottom of the laptop and look for air vents or fan vents. If they are on the side and not on the bottom, it is usually safe to use the cooler pad; otherwise, it may not be safe to use a conductive cooler pad.\n\nThe other variety that can be used simply has a hard resting surface that provides a gap between the cooler and the laptop is normally safer to use.\n\nA type of passive cooler that allows both airflow between the laptop base and cooler, as well as, between the base of the cooler and the users's lap. These laptop coolers are well suited to laptops that have vents on its base because it prevents these vents from being blocked regardless of what ever surface the laptop is used on. Therefore, these multi-surface coolers are suitable for use on desk, lap and uneven/soft surfaces (couch, bed/duvet, carpet) and outdoors.\n\nRecent advancements have brought forward coolers that are multipurpose. Features include card readers for various forms of media such as key drives, memory cards, and 2.5\" laptop hard disk drives. In addition to the above coolers that are a combination of mini work desk with fans are a convenient addition to users that want to use the laptop on a bed or a couch – although they tend to be too heavy and bulky to be carried conveniently everywhere, limiting mobility.\n\nOne variant is a cooler with writing pad having an area meant to be used for placing a book or a writing pad – designed with students in mind, although the bigger size limits its mobility and the weight usually results in tired legs for the user when used for a prolonged period of time. A recent addition to the above is an attachable laptop cooler and a comfort pad built into one.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2120545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120545", "title": "Glenn L. Martin", "text": "Glenn L. Martin\n\nGlenn Luther Martin (January 17, 1886 – December 5, 1955) was an early American aviation pioneer. He designed and built his own aircraft and was an active pilot, as well as an aviation record-holder. He founded an aircraft company in 1912 which through several mergers amalgamated into what is today known as Lockheed Martin.\n\nGlenn L. Martin was born in Macksburg, Iowa, on January 17, 1886 to Minta and Clarence Martin. At the age of two, Martin's family moved to Salina, Kansas, so that his father could run a wheat farm. \nBy age six, he became interested in kites, but at first his friends made fun of box-kites he built. When the kites flew well, people paid him twenty-five cents to build one for them. He turned his mother's kitchen into a \"factory\" to produce more kites. Martin also began using sails on everything from ice skates to wagons, and even his bicycle to move faster with less effort.\nHe attended and studied business at Kansas Wesleyan in Salina, Kansas. In 1933, he received an honorary Bachelor of Science degree from Kansas Wesleyan University. \n\nAs he grew up, he became fascinated with flight, first with kites, then later the Wright brothers' airplane. In 1909 he decided to build one himself based on the Curtiss June Bug, but it was destroyed on the first test flight. For his next effort, Martin used silk and bamboo in the aircraft's construction. This airplane made a short flight. Martin was often assisted by his mother Minta Martin holding a lamp in the building of his first few airplanes.\n\nOn May 10, 1912, Martin flew a self-built seaplane from Newport Bay, California to Avalon on Catalina Island, then back across the channel. This broke the earlier English Channel record for over-water flight. Martin's total distance was , with the Newport-Avalon leg taking 37 minutes. He picked up a bag of mail on the island on the way, and was presented with $100 ($ in 2011) prize for his achievement. In 1913, Martin was not as fortunate while competing in the Great Lakes Reliability Cruise, a race of seaplanes around the Great Lakes. Martin's pontoon hit a wave at high speed and low altitude, causing the plane to somersault, and sink to the bottom with Martin, who escaped and attempted to salvage the plane to finish the race.\n\nIn 1912, Martin built an airplane factory in an old Methodist church in Los Angeles, California. To make money to finance this business, he began stunt-flying at fairs and local airfields. He saw an advertisement for a pilot/airplane owner to play a role in a movie. Sensing an opportunity to market his airplanes, he replied to the ad and got the part of a dashing hero in the 1915 production \"A Girl of Yesterday\" starring Mary Pickford. Soon, however, Martin realized that film production was more difficult than he anticipated. In addition to flying Pickford around in his airplane, he had a scene where he had to kiss Frances Marion, who later became a legendary Hollywood screenwriter. Martin in describing his hesitance having to kiss Marion declared, \"my mother would not like it\" which astounded Pickford. He worked up the courage however after persuasion by Paramount boss Adolph Zukor and completed the scene.\n\nMartin held a record for longest American over-water flight, 66 miles. His company designed aircraft for the military, including bombers for both world wars. An early success came during World War I with production of the MB-1 bomber. The MB-2 and others were also successful.\nIn 1932, Martin won the Collier Trophy for his involvement with the Martin B-10 bomber.\n\nHe founded the Glenn L. Martin Company in 1912. \nIn 1916 he merged his company with the original Wright Company, forming the Wright-Martin Aircraft Company. He soon left and founded a second Glenn L. Martin Company in 1917. That company merged with the American-Marietta Corporation in 1961, becoming the Martin Marietta Corporation. This company merged with the Lockheed Corporation in 1995, forming Lockheed Martin, a major U.S. aerospace and defense contractor. In the 1940s, towards the end of Martin's life, he and his beloved and now aged mother Minta were photographed touring the Martin facilities in Baltimore and celebrating Martin's success as one of the captains in the aviation industry.\n\nIn 1925, the Industrial Bureau contacted Glenn Martin at his plant in Cleveland, Ohio. It was the Bureau's job to attract Martin to Maryland. After speaking with Martin, a site in Middle River was chosen. From this point it was a three-year-long struggle to acquire the land needed from forty-five property owners. This struggle involved convincing the citizens that this was going to become a booming industry and would provide many jobs in the area. In 1928, the Glenn L. Martin Company moved to Maryland, bringing hundreds of much needed jobs, an airport, and a booming aviation industry. In 1931 he joined the Maryland Club.\n\nHe died from complications of a stroke on December 5, 1955, in Baltimore, Maryland.\n\nMartin's donations to the University of Maryland, College Park, created the Glenn L. Martin Institute of Technology, which includes the A. James Clark School of Engineering. The University's wind tunnel and a classroom building (the home of the Department of Aerospace Engineering and other units) also bear Martin's name.\n\nThe Glenn L. Martin Stadium on the campus of Kansas Wesleyan University opened in 1940; it was demolished in 2014.\nIn 1977, Martin was inducted into the International Air & Space Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 1951 Glenn L. Martin Elementary School opened in Santa Ana, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120549", "title": "World Wide Pictures", "text": "World Wide Pictures\n\nWorld Wide Pictures (WWP) is a film distributor and production company established as a subsidiary of the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (BGEA) in 1951. It is involved in the production and distribution of evangelistic films, the production of Graham crusade films, and publicity for Graham crusades.\n\nWWP got its start after Graham met Dick Ross, who had produced a documentary film of Graham's 1950 crusade in Portland, Oregon. That film's success led the BGEA to buy Ross's production company, and hire him as the president of a new BGEA subsidiary incorporated as the Billy Graham Evangelistic Film Ministry (which was to be WWP's official name until 1980).\n\nWWP's first feature film was \"Mr. Texas\", produced during Graham's 1951 Fort Worth, Texas Crusade. It was also during the 1950s that WWP established production facilities in Burbank, California.\n\nPerhaps WWP's best-known production was the 1965 film \"The Restless Ones\", featuring Kim Darby. It was the first theatrical movie. According to an October 14, 1966 issue of \"Christianity Today\" more than 120,000 professions of faith were recorded after more than two million people viewed the film. Other major feature films included \"Two a Penny\" (1965), which starred Cliff Richard. Both \"The Hiding Place\" (1975) (with Julie Harris) and \"Time to Run\" (1973) received Golden Globe nominations for Most Promising Newcomer.\n\nWWP stopped national releases of its films in the late 1980s. The company sold its Burbank studio, moved its headquarters to Minneapolis, and switched to working with independent producers and distributing films to churches, on home video, and as made-for-TV movies.\n\nThey cautiously returned to feature films in 2001, with the limited national release of \"Road to Redemption\", WWP's first comedy after over 125 films (including nine major motion pictures). The film starred Pat Hingle. It was followed by \"The Climb\", which starred Jason Winston George, Ned Vaughn, and Dabney Coleman, and featured Todd Bridges. In 2003, the company released its latest film \"Last Flight Out\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120550", "title": "Orange Crush Defense", "text": "Orange Crush Defense\n\nThe Orange Crush Defense was the 3–4 defense of the Denver Broncos during the late 1970s and early 1980s. The team adopted the 3–4 defense during the 1976 season, and the nickname \"Orange Crush\" for the team's defense was popularized early in the 1977 season by sportswriter/broadcaster Woody Paige.\nIt was one of the top defenses of its time with linebackers Randy Gradishar and Tom Jackson, with Gradishar as a potential Pro Football Hall of Fame selection. Other key players were defensive linemen Paul Smith (a three-time Pro Bowl selection), Barney Chavous, Lyle Alzado, and Rubin Carter, linebackers Bob Swenson and Joe Rizzo, and defensive backs Billy Thompson, Louis Wright, Steve Foley, and Bernard Jackson.\n\nIn 1977, coach Ralston stepped down and Red Miller was brought in to guide an already talented team to their first ever playoff berth. The defense was already showing signs of dominance. By Week 7 of the 1977 season, the Broncos were 6–0 and the defense was well known as “The Orange Crush Defense,” giving up a total of 46 points during those games.\n\nThe defense was led by coordinator Joe Collier, defensive line coach Stan Jones (inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1991), and first-year head coach Red Miller. Denver was 12–2 in the regular season, made its first-ever post-season appearance, and advanced to Super Bowl XII in New Orleans. The 1977 Broncos had the National Football League (NFL)'s number-one defense against the rush and were a respectable 11th (of 28 teams) against the pass using the NFL Passer Rating score. They allowed only 10.6 points per game, the third fewest in the league.\n\nThe team's defensive unit derived the nickname from their orange home jerseys and a popular soft drink, Orange Crush. This delighted the makers of the soft drink, based in Illinois near Chicago.\n\nThe use of the term has resurfaced in recent years, most notably in reference to the Broncos' 2015 season.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120556", "title": "Joya de Cerén", "text": "Joya de Cerén\n\nJoya de Cerén (\"Jewel of Cerén\" in the Spanish language) is an archaeological site in La Libertad Department, El Salvador, featuring a pre-Columbian Maya farming village.\nThe ancient Maya site of Joya de Cerén is located in the Zapotitán Valley 36 kilometers northwest of San Salvador, El Salvador. It is often referred to as the \"Pompeii of the Americas\", in comparison to the famed Ancient Roman ruins. This site is known for the excellent preservation of a Classic period settlement that was rapidly buried by the ashfall of an eruption of the Loma Caldera around A.D. 600. The relative abundance of paleoethnobotanical remains recovered at Joya de Cerén in comparison to other ancient Maya archaeological sites make Joya de Cerén particularly significant in the study of everyday life of ancient Maya agricultural communities. Of importance was the discovery of a manioc field, the first instance of manioc cultivation identified at a New World archaeological site. The site was thought to have been settled between A.D. 200 and A.D. 600. Joya de Cerén was entered on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 1993 and is a major tourist attraction in El Salvador.\n\n1,400 years before the village was abandoned, the population was estimated to be 200 people. The eruption of the Loma Caldera volcano caused 10 meters of pyroclastic debris to settle over the site. The site was remarkably well preserved due to the low temperature of ash and very fast ashfall, a 4 - 8 meter thick layer having blanketed the town in the space of a few hours. The use of plaster casting by archaeologists similar to the one used in Pompeii assisted in their identification of fruiting plants, abundance of beans in storage, and mature maize to predict the eruption happened in August or September. Guava, agave, cacao, and manioc were some of the major crops to the community. Based on crack patterns observed from the relatively earthquake-resistant wattle-and-daub walls and adobe columns at Joya de Cerén, scholars suggest that an earthquake measuring 4.0 on the Richter scale preceded the eruption, giving residents time to flee the site. Further, possible steamy emissions from the volcano may have alerted residents of the impending danger, but only inferences can be made about what exactly warned them. It is unclear to scholars if the duration of the eruptions lasted a few days or a few weeks. \nThe position of artifacts at the site have led scholars to suggest that the evacuation of Joya de Cerén happened in the early evening: shovels and other agricultural work equipment were found stored near the domestic structures, and fires had been lit in hearths. Also, sleeping mats had not yet been rolled out on the domicile floor. No human remains have been discovered at the ancient Maya site.\n\nJoya de Cerén can be divided into a northeastern area, a southeastern area, and northwestern area. The northwestern area holds Household 1 alongside Structure 1, 5-6, 10-12, 17 containing milpas and a kitchen garden. The southeastern area holds Household 2 alongside Structure 2, 7, 9, 13, 18 containing a temascal, milpas and a basurero (trash pit). The northwestern area holds Household 3-4 alongside Structure 3-4, 8, 14-16 containing milpas, fruit trees, and another basurero. 18 structures have been identified in archaeological survey. Of these, ten have been excavated by archaeologists. Scholars distinguish ceremonial buildings from non-ceremonial buildings with the following considerations: orientation of building, platform heights, floor plans, assemblages, construction technique, altars, caches, burials, etc.\n\nStructure 10 is a multi-roomed structure with many corridors. Archaeologists interpret Structure 10 as being used for community festivals in the Classic Maya period, based on features associated with ceremonial activities. Inside Structure 10 was a north corridor for food preparation, while the east corridor stored several vessels. For instance, decorated vessels and a red painted deer and twine headdress was recovered in Structure 10, which has been interpreted by archaeologists as connected with fertility and harvest rituals. Vessels filled with achiote seeds, found in associated with ceremonial objects suggest that the eruption may have interrupted a ceremony. Additionally, archaeologists propose that a north corridor for used for food preparation, while the east corridor may have been used for storage.\n\nStructure 12 is located 5 meters away from Structure 10 and was defined by a doorway and two lattice windows that directed and restricted traffic inside the structure. Similarly to Structure 10, archaeologists believe Structure 12 was also associated with the performance of religious activities. The storage of miscellaneous female-associated artifacts discovered in the niche of an earthen bench may have been a part of a woman’s supernatural tool kit. The tool kit of ceramic figurines, shell fragments, beans, and antlers has led scholars to infer the building was for the diviner to hold divinatory activities in the back rooms and through a window of the west room.\n\nStructure 1 is also known as Household 1 in archaeological literature, and has been fully excavated. Archaeologists propose a service relationship between 1 and Structure 10 and Structure 12 because the kitchen of 1 presumably was used for masa production with their supply of metates for ceremonies inside Structures 10 and 12. The difference in hearths based on amount of wear was an indicator to scholars to identify if the building was for ritualistic activities or not. The combination of phosphorus detection and heavy metal extraction within the site have allowed archaeologists to discover that each household stored about 70 vessels for cooking, plus serving food and drinks conducted in kitchen and midden areas in comparison to other areas.\n\nThe community of Cerén locally produced agave fibers, manos, and metates, and pottery vessels, while acquiring imports such as cutting tools made from obsidian and chert, jade from the north (Sierra de las Minas), or fancy pottery from Copán presumably from elite-managed markets outside. Once households owned these commodities, they often participated in horizontal exchanges with other households in the village or places nearby in the case of a surplus. The orientation of the households in the village and the assemblages found in each one helped scholars determine that the building was used for non-ceremonial purposes, rather than ceremonial purposes.\n\nThe site was discovered in 1976 by a bulldozer driver leveling ground for a government agricultural project. The first structures dug up were Structure 10 and 12 that were part of the northeastern area of the village. It was explored in depth by Payson Sheets, a professor of anthropology at the University of Colorado at Boulder, in 1978 and 1980. Excavation resumed in 1988, and has been continuous since then. Approximately 70 buildings have been uncovered so far, including storehouses, kitchens, living quarters, workshops, a religious structure, and a communal sauna. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120557", "title": "Morihiro Higashikuni", "text": "Morihiro Higashikuni\n\n, formerly was an Imperial Japanese Army officer who was a member of a cadet line of the Japanese imperial family and husband of Emperor Hirohito's eldest daughter.\n\nThe eldest son and heir of Prince Naruhiko Higashikuni, Prince Morihiro had the distinction of being a grandson of Emperor Meiji and simultaneously both a first cousin and a son-in-law of Emperor Hirohito. He was born in Tokyo, and like most male members of the imperial family during the Empire of Japan, was groomed to pursue a career in the military from an early age.\n\nAfter graduation from the Gakushuin Peers’ School and the Central Military Preparatory School, Prince Higashikuni served for a session in the House of Peers. He graduated from the 49th class of Imperial Japanese Army Academy in June 1937, and was commissioned as a second lieutenant of field artillery in August. The following March, he was promoted to lieutenant in the IJA First Artillery Regiment, and was stationed in Manchukuo.\n\nDuring the Nomonhan Incident in summer 1939, he commanded the First Battery, 1st Heavy Field Artillery Regiment of the Kwantung Army. He withdrew in face of the Soviet counter-offensive without orders during the heat of battle, and was transferred back to Japan on 2 August 1939. The incident was suppressed by Japanese military censors, but provided much propaganda for the Soviet Army. Despite this apparent blot on his service record, he was promoted to captain of the artillery in March 1941. He attended the Army War College from December 1942 to December 1943, and on graduation was promoted to major and placed on the reserve list.\n\nOn 10 October 1943, Prince Higashikuni married eighteen-year-old Princess Shigeko (9 December 1925 – 23 July 1961), the eldest daughter of Emperor Shōwa and Empress Kōjun, who was widely known by her childhood appellation \"Teru-no-miya\". The bride and groom were related several times over through their common descent from Emperor Meiji and Prince Kuni Asahiko (the father of Prince Naruhiko Higashikuni and the grandfather of Empress Kōjun).\n\nThe couple had five children, the last three of whom were born after the Higashikuni family was removed from the Imperial Household register:\n\n\nHis first wife, former Princess Shigeko, died of cancer in July 1961. In 1964, Morihiro Higashikuni married Miss Yoshiko Terao. The second marriage produced two children:\n\nIn October 1947, the Higashikuni and other branches of the Japanese Imperial Family were divested of their titles and privileges during the American occupation of Japan and became commoners. As a commoner, he attempted several unsuccessful business ventures before eventually becoming the chief of the research division of the Hokkaido Mining and Steamship Company. He died of lung cancer at St. Luke's International Hospital in Tokyo in 1969.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120566", "title": "Duszniki-Zdrój", "text": "Duszniki-Zdrój\n\nDuszniki-Zdrój ) (; ), often simplified to Duszniki, is a spa town in the Kłodzko Valley on the Bystrzyca River in Kłodzko County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, southwestern Poland. It attracts tourists from around the world.\n\nThe settlement was mentioned in 1324. It was granted town rights in 1346. Until 1595 it remained in private hands. A trade route connecting Silesia and Bohemia ran through the town, contributing to its development. Weaving and paper production developed, as well as the iron industry, but the local iron deposits quickly depleted. In 1584 a town hall was built, and in 1605 a paper mill, now housing the Museum of Papermaking. The town's development was stopped by the Thirty Years' War (1618-1648). In 1669 Polish King John II Casimir Vasa stopped in the town after his abdication.\n\nIn 1748 the first research of mineral springs was carried out, and in 1751 spa treatments began. In 1769, the town obtained the status of a spa town. In 1822 a pump room was founded. In 1826, 16-year-old Frédéric Chopin visited the spa. He was cured there and gave his first concert outside of the Russian Partition of Poland, which was also his first charity concert. In 1877 a palm house was built with a concert hall and a reading room, and after 1881 many guesthouses were built. In 1896 or 1897, a monument was unveiled commemorating the 60th anniversary of Chopin's stay.\n\nIn 1949, 1,500 Greek refugees of the Greek Civil War, mostly women and children, were temporarily admitted in Duszniki-Zdrój before new homes were found for them in other towns.\n\nThe town suffered in the 1997 Central European flood.\n\nThe town's economy is based on tourism, with several hundred thousand people visiting the town and the area every year. In addition, there are several mineral water bottling plants, a traditional paper works and a crystal jewellery producer. The Museum of Papermaking in Duszniki-Zdrój is located in the town.\n\nAlthough the area was known for its healthy waters at least since the late Middle Ages, the spa was officially founded in 1769. The natural sparkling waters of Duszniki are used in treatment of a variety of illnesses, including cardiac problems, gastrical problems. In addition, there is a number of facilities for balneotherapy located in Duszniki and an osteoporosis treatment centre.\n\nDuszniki-Zdrój most recognizable landmark is the Museum of Papermaking established in an old 17th century paper mill. It is listed as an official Historic Monument of Poland. Other significant places include the Saints Peter and Paul church, which contains a unique baroque, whale-stylized pulpit, and the Fryderyk Chopin Theatre, established in the place where in 1826, 16-year-old Fryderyk Chopin played his first concert outside of the Russian Partition of Poland and his first charity concert. The annual International Chopin Festival is held here since 1946.\n\nDuszniki-Zdrój is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "2120575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120575", "title": "Synaptonemal complex", "text": "Synaptonemal complex\n\nThe synaptonemal complex (SC) is a protein structure that forms between homologous chromosomes (two pairs of sister chromatids) during meiosis and is thought to mediate synapsis and recombination during meiosis I in eukaryotes. It is currently thought that the SC functions primarily as a scaffold to allow interacting chromatids to complete their crossover activities.\n\nThe synaptonemal complex is a tripartite structure consisting of two parallel lateral regions and a central element. This \"tripartite structure\" is seen during the pachytene stage of the first meiotic prophase, both in males and in females during gametogenesis. Previous to the pachytene stage, during leptonema, the lateral elements begin to form and they initiate and complete their pairing during the zygotene stage. After pachynema ends, the SC usually becomes disassembled and can no longer be identified.\n\nIn humans, three specific components of the synaptonemal complex have been characterized: SC protein-1 (SYCP1), SC protein-2 (SYCP2), and SC protein-3 (SYCP3). The SYCP1 gene is on chromosome 1p13; the SYCP2 gene is on chromosome 20q13.33; and the gene for SYCP3 is on chromosome 12q. \n\nThe synaptonemal complex was described by Montrose J. Moses in 1956 in primary spermatocytes of crayfish and by D. Fawcett in spermatocytes of pigeon, cat and man. As seen with the electron microscope, the synaptonemal complex is formed by two \"lateral elements\", mainly formed by SYCP3 and secondarily by SYCP2, a \"central element\" that contains at least two additional proteins and the amino terminal region of SYCP1, and a \"central region\" spanned between the two lateral elements, that contains the \"transverse filaments\" composed mainly by the protein SYCP1.\n\nThe SCs can be seen with the light microscope using silver staining or with immunofluorescence techniques that label the proteins SYCP3 or SYCP2.\n\nFormation of the SC usually reflects the pairing or \"synapsis\" of homologous chromosomes and may be used to probe the presence of pairing abnormalities in individuals carrying chromosomal abnormalities, either in number or in the chromosomal structure. The sex chromosomes in male mammals show only \"partial synapsis\" as they usually form only a short SC in the XY pair. The SC shows very little structural variability among eukaryotic organisms despite some significant protein differences. In many organisms the SC carries one or several \"recombination nodules\" associated to its central space. These nodules are thought to correspond to mature genetic recombination events or \"crossovers\". In male mice, gamma irradiation increases meiotic crossovers in SCs. This indicates that exogenously caused DNA damages are likely repaired by crossover recombination in SCs. The finding of an interaction between a SC structural component [synaptonemal central element protein 2 (SYCE2)] and recombinational repair protein RAD51 also suggests a role of the SC in DNA repair.\n\nIn cell development the synaptonemal complex disappears during the late prophase of meiosis I.It is formed during zygotene\n\nIt is now evident that the synaptonemal complex is not required for genetic recombination in some organisms. For instance, in protozoan ciliates such as \"Tetrahymena thermophila\" and \"Paramecium tetraurelia\" genetic crossover does not appear to require synaptonemal complex formation. Research has shown that not only does the SC form after genetic recombination but mutant yeast cells unable to assemble a synaptonemal complex can still engage in the exchange of genetic information. However, in other organisms like the \"C. elegans\" nematode, formation of chiasmata require the formation of the synaptonemal complex.\n\nby 3D-Structured Illumination, photograph by Dr. Chung-Ju Rachel Wang\nUniversity of California Berkeley, Department of Molecular and Cell Biology\nBerkeley, CA, USA, second place winner of the 2009 Olympus Bioscapes Digital Imaging Competition.\n"}
{"id": "2120576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120576", "title": "Britannia (coin)", "text": "Britannia (coin)\n\nBritannia coins are British bullion coins issued by the Royal Mint in gold since 1987 and in silver since 1997. The coin patterns feature various depictions of Britannia, a feminine personification of the United Kingdom.\n\nBritannia gold coins contain one troy ounce of gold and have a face value of £100. Gold Britannias also are issued in fractional sizes of one-half, one-quarter, and one-tenth of a troy ounce and with face values of £50, £25, and £10 respectively. In 2013 two additional sizes were introduced, a five-ounce coin of face value £500, and a fractional size of one-twentieth of face value £5.\n\nBritannia silver coins contain one troy ounce of silver and have a face value of £2. Silver Britannias also are issued in fractional sizes of one-half, one-quarter, and one-tenth of a troy ounce and with face values of £1, 50p, and 20p respectively. Like the gold coins in 2013 two additional sizes were introduced, a five-ounce coin of face value £10, and a fractional size of one-twentieth of face value 10p.\n\nFrom 2013 the gold coins have a millesimal fineness of 0.9999 (or 24 carat gold). Until 2012 the gold coins have a millesimal fineness of 0.917 (91.7% or 22 carat gold) with the non-gold component being copper until 1989 and silver from 1990.\n\n2013– Gold Britannia specifications (gold content, and approx total weight)\n\n1987–2012 Gold Britannia specifications (gold content, not total weight)\n\nSince 2013 the silver coins have been produced with a millesimal fineness of 0.999 (99.9% silver). They have a mass of 31.21 grams and diameter of 38.61 mm.\n\nFrom 1997 to 2012 the silver coins had a millesimal fineness of 958 (95.8% or Britannia silver). Total mass 32.45 grams, diameter 40.00 mm.\n\nSilver Britannias have been released each year beginning in 1997, when a silver proof set was offered. In 1998 and in all subsequent even-numbered years the reverse design has depicted a standing Britannia figure. Beginning in 1999 and continuing in odd-numbered years, a series of alternate, non-repeating depictions of Britannia have replaced the standing figure on the reverse. Starting in 2013, the proof versions of the coin will feature a different design each year, while the bullion version of the coin will always feature the classic standing Britannia. While mintage was limited prior to 2013, in 2013 and after mintage of the bullion version of the coin is unlimited based on demand.\n\nSome 2014 silver Britannia coins were struck with the incorrect obverse as there was a mix up during the manufacturing process with the 'Lunar' Year of the Horse coins from The Royal Mint, as both coins were to the same fineness and specification, and similar but not identical obverse sides. It is thought that there are around 17,000 examples with the mis-strike, which have been dubbed the 'Mule Britannia' These coins have fetched substantial premiums on online auction sites.\n\nThe following table has the most recent numbers of coins minted by year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120578", "title": "Metro Ethernet", "text": "Metro Ethernet\n\nA metropolitan-area Ethernet, Ethernet MAN, or metro Ethernet network is a metropolitan area network (MAN) that is based on . It is commonly used to connect subscribers to a larger service network or the Internet. Businesses can also use metropolitan-area Ethernet to connect their own offices to each other.\n\nAn Ethernet interface is much cheaper than a synchronous digital hierarchy (SONET/SDH) or plesiochronous digital hierarchy (PDH) interface of the same bandwidth. Another distinct advantage of an Ethernet-based access network is that it can be easily connected to the customer network, due to the prevalent use of Ethernet in corporate and, more recently, residential networks.\nA typical service provider's network is a collection of switches and routers connected through optical fiber. The topology could be a ring, hub-and-spoke (star), or full or partial mesh. The network will also have a hierarchy: core, distribution (aggregation), and access. The core in most cases is an existing IP/MPLS backbone but may migrate to newer forms of Ethernet transport in the form of 10Gbit/s, 40Gbit/s, or 100Gbit/s speeds or even possibly 400Gbit/s to Terabit Ethernet network in the future.\n\nEthernet on the MAN can be used as pure Ethernet, Ethernet over SDH, Ethernet over Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS), or Ethernet over DWDM. Ethernet-based deployments with no other underlying transport are cheaper but are harder to implement in a resilient and scalable manner, which has limited its use to small scale or experimental deployments. SDH-based deployments are useful when there is an existing SDH infrastructure already in place, its main shortcoming being the loss of flexibility in bandwidth management due to the rigid hierarchy imposed by the SDH network. MPLS-based deployments are costly but highly reliable and scalable and are typically used by large service providers.\n\nFamiliar network domains are likely to exist regardless of the transport technology chosen to implement metropolitan area networks: Access, aggregation/distribution, and core.\n\n\nMuch of the functionality of Ethernet MANs such as virtual private lines or virtual private networks is implemented by the use of Ethernet VLAN tags that allow differentiation of each part of the network. Logical differentiation of the physical network helps to identify the rights that the traffic has and to ease the management of hosts' access rights with respect to other users and networks.\n\nA Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) metro Ethernet network uses MPLS in the service provider's network. The subscriber will get an Ethernet interface on copper (for example, 100BASE-TX) or fiber (such as 100BASE-FX). The customer's Ethernet packet is transported over MPLS and the service provider network uses Ethernet again as the underlying technology to transport MPLS. So, it is Ethernet over MPLS over Ethernet.\n\nLabel Distribution Protocol (LDP) signaling can be used as site to site signaling for the inner label (VC label) and Resource reSerVation Protocol-Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) or LDP may be used as Network signaling for the outer label.\n\nOne restoration mechanism used in an MPLS based Metro Ethernet Networks is Fast ReRoute (FRR) to achieve sub-50ms convergence of MPLS local protection. For each deployment situation the benefit versus cost of MPLS must be weighed carefully, so if not implemented on a carrier's distribution network there might be more benefit for MPLS the core network. In some situations the cost may not warrant the benefits, particularly if sub 50ms convergence time is already being achieved with pure Ethernet.\n\nA comparison of MPLS-based Metro Ethernet against a pure Ethernet MAN:\n\nSome service providers deployed metro Ethernet networks using fixed wireless technology. These networks commonly are engineered with a majority of the network traffic using a mesh of multi-point and point-to-point microwave links. Carriers have more recently been referred to as metro wireless in many cases. Metro Wireless providers in many cases are able to produce shorter installation times due to less permitting and procedure necessary. Many consumers now rely on this type of technology to allow Internet access in areas where local telephone companies and cable companies do not or will no longer service due to copper theft or other business reasons. Wireless is also commonly used as a true redundant path to the Internet.\n\nIn late September 2007 Verizon Business announced metro Ethernet across Asia-Pacific including Australia, Singapore, Japan and Hong Kong using Nortel equipment.\n\nIn late January 2009, Windstream announced it would begin offering metro Ethernet service to small and medium business customers. \n\nIn May 2011, Comcast announced its own metro Ethernet services to business customers in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120585", "title": "Iranian cuisine", "text": "Iranian cuisine\n\nIranian cuisine (Persian: آشپزی ایرانی \"āšpazi iranī\") comprises the cooking traditions of Iran. The term Persian cuisine is used as well due to the fact that Iran is historically known as Persia in the West, even though ethnic Persians are only one of Iran's native ethnic groups that have contributed to the culinary culture.\n\nIran's culinary culture has historically interacted with the cuisines of the neighboring regions, including Caucasian cuisine, Turkish cuisine, Levantine cuisine, Greek cuisine, Central Asian cuisine, and Russian cuisine. Through the various Persianized Muslim sultanates and the Central Asian Mughal dynasty, aspects of Iranian cuisine were also adopted into Indian and Pakistani cuisines.\n\nTypical Iranian main dishes are combinations of rice with meat, vegetables, and nuts. Herbs are frequently used, along with fruits such as plums, pomegranates, quince, prunes, apricots, and raisins. Characteristic Iranian flavorings such as saffron, dried lime and other sources of sour flavoring, cinnamon, turmeric, and parsley are mixed and used in various dishes.\n\nOutside Iran, Iranian cuisine is especially found in cities of the Iranian diaspora such as London, the San Francisco Bay Area, Toronto, Houston and especially Los Angeles and its environs.\n\nThe usage of rice, at first a specialty of the Safavid Empire's court cuisine, evolved by the end of the 16th century CE into a major branch of Iranian cookery. Traditionally, rice was most prevalent as a major staple item in northern Iran and the homes of the wealthy, while bread was the dominant staple in the rest of the country.\n\nVarieties of rice in Iran include gerde, domsia (literally meaning black-tail, because it's black at one end), champa, doodi (smoked rice), Lenjan (from Lenjan County), Tarom (from Tarom County), anbarbu, and others.\n\nThe following table includes three primary methods of cooking rice in Iran.\n\nSecond only to rice is the production and use of wheat. The following table lists several forms of flatbread and pastry-bread commonly used in Iranian cuisine.\nAgriculture of Iran produces many fruits and vegetables. Thus, a bowl of fresh fruit is common on Iranian tables, and vegetables are standard sides to most meals. These are not only enjoyed fresh and ripe as desserts, but are also combined with meat and form accompaniments to main dishes. When fresh fruits are not available, a large variety of dried fruits such as dates, fig, apricots and peach are used instead. Southern Iran is one of the world's major date producers, where some special cultivars such as the Bam date are grown.\n\nVegetables such as pumpkins, spinach, green beans, fava beans, courgette, varieties of squash, onion, garlic and carrot are commonly used in Iranian dishes. Tomatoes, cucumbers and scallion often accompany a meal. While the eggplant is \"the potato of Iran\", Iranians are fond of fresh green salads dressed with olive oil, lemon juice, salt, chili, and garlic.\n\nFruit dolma is probably a specialty of Iranian cuisine. The fruit is first cooked, then stuffed with meat, seasonings, and sometimes tomato sauce. The dolma is then simmered in meat broth or a sweet-and-sour sauce.\n\nVerjuice, a highly acidic juice made by pressing unripe grapes or other sour fruit, is used in various Iranian dishes. It is mainly used within soup and stew dishes, but also to simmer a type of squash dolma. Unripe grapes are also used whole in some dishes such as \"khoresh e qure\" (lamb stew with sour grapes). As a spice, verjuice powder (\"pudr e qure\") is sometimes reinforced by verjuice and then dried.\n\n\"Advieh\" or \"chāshni\" refers to a wide variety of pungent vegetables and dried fruits that are used in Iranian cuisine to flavor food.\n\nOne of the traditional and most widespread Iranian spices is saffron, derived from the flower of \"Crocus sativus\". Rose water, a flavored water made by steeping rose petals in water, is also a traditional and common ingredient in many Iranian dishes.\n\nPersian hogweed (\"golpar\"), which grows wild in the humid mountainous regions of Iran, is used as a spice in various Iranian soups and stews. It is also mixed with vinegar into which broad beans are dipped before eating.\n\nSome other common spices are cardamom—made from the seeds of several \"Elettaria\" and \"Amomum\" plants, shevid—an annual herb in the celery family Apiaceae, mahleb—an aromatic spice made from the seeds of \"Prunus mahaleb\", and limu amani—lime that has lost its water content.\n\nThere are also several traditional combinations of spices, two of which are arde—made from toasted ground hulled sesame seeds, and delal sauce—made of heavy salted fresh herbs such as cilantro and parsley.\n\nTypical Iranian cuisine includes a wide variety of dishes, including several forms of kebab, stew, soup, and pilaf dishes, as well as various salads, desserts, pastries, and drinks.\n\nIn Iran, kebabs are served either with rice or with bread. A dish of chelow white rice with kebab is called \"chelow kabab\", which is considered the national dish of Iran. The rice can also be prepared using the kateh method, and hence the dish would be called \"kateh kabab\".\n\nThe following table lists several forms of kebab used in Iranian cuisine.\nKhoresh is an Iranian form of stew, which is usually accompanied by a plate of white rice. A khoresh typically consists of herbs, fruits, and meat pieces, flavored with tomato paste, saffron, and pomegranate juice. Other non-khoresh types of stew such as dizi are accompanied by bread instead of rice.\n\nSeveral Iranian stew dishes are listed within the following table.\n\nThere are various forms of soup in Iranian cuisine, including sup e jow (\"barley soup\"), sup e esfenaj (\"spinach soup\"), sup e qarch (\"mushroom soup\"), and several forms of \"thick soup\". A thick soup is referred to as \"āsh\" in Iran, which is an Iranian traditional form of soup. Also, \"shole qalamkar\" is the Iranian term for \"Hodge-Podge\" soup, a soup made of a mixture of various ingredients.\n\nThe following table lists a number of soup and āsh dishes in Iranian cuisine.\nApart from dishes of rice with kebab or stew, there are various rice-based Iranian dishes cooked in the traditional methods of polow and dami.\n\n\"Polow\" is the Persian word for pilaf and it is also used in other Iranian languages, in the English language it may have variations in spelling. A polow dish includes rice stuffed with cuts of vegetables, fruits, and beans, usually accompanied by either chicken or red meat. Dami dishes are similar to polow in that they involve various ingredients with rice, however they are cooked using the dami method of cooking the dish all in one pot.\n\nThe following are a number of traditional Iranian rice-based dishes:\nIn 400 BC, the ancient Iranians invented a special chilled food, made of rose water and vermicelli, which was served to royalty in summertime. The ice was mixed with saffron, fruits, and various other flavors. Today, one of the most famous Iranian desserts in the semi-frozen noodle dessert known as \"falude\", which has its roots in the city of Shiraz, a former capital of the country. Bastani e zaferani, Persian for \"saffron ice cream\", is a traditional Iranian ice cream which is also commonly referred to as \"the traditional ice cream\". Other typical Iranian desserts include several forms of rice, wheat and dairy desserts.\n\nThe following is a list of several Iranian desserts.\n\nCookies appear to have their origins in 7th-century Iran, shortly after the use of sugar became relatively common in the region. There are numerous traditional native and adopted types of snack food in modern Iran, of which some are listed within the following table.\n\nIran is one of the world's major tea producers, mostly cultivated in its northern regions. In Iranian culture, tea (\"čāy\") is widely consumed and is typically the first thing offered to a guest. Iranians traditionally put a lump of sugar cube in the mouth before drinking the tea. Rock candies are also widely used, typically flavored with saffron.\nIran's traditional coffee (\"qahve\", or \"kāfe\") is served strong, sweet, and \"booby-trapped with a sediment of grounds\". In 16th-century Safavid Iran, coffee was initially used for medical purposes among the society. Traditional coffeehouses were popular gatherings, in which people drank coffee, smoked tobacco, and recited poetry—especially the epic poems of \"Shahnameh\". In present-day Iran, cafés are trendy mostly in urban areas, where a variety of brews and desserts are served. Turkish coffee is also popular in Iran, more specifically among Iranian Azeris.\n\nWine (\"mey\") has also a significant presence in Iranian culture. Shirazi wine is Iran's historically most famous wine production, originating from the city of Shiraz. By the 9th century, the city of Shiraz had already established a reputation for producing the finest wine in the world, and was Iran's wine capital. Since the 1979 Revolution, alcoholic beverages have been prohibited in Iran; though non-Muslim recognized minorities (i.e. Christians, Jews, and Zoroastrians) are allowed to produce alcoholic beverages for their own use. While non-alcoholic beer (\"ābjow\") is available from legal outlets, other citizens prepare their alcoholic beverages illegally through the minority groups and largely from Iraqi Kurdistan and Turkey.\n\nAraq sagi, literally meaning \"doggy distillate\", is a type of distilled alcoholic beverage in Iran which contains at least 65% pure ethanol. It is usually produced at homes from raisins, and is similar to Turkish rakı. Prior to the 1979 Revolution, it had been produced traditionally in several cities of Iran. Since it was outlawed following the 1979 Revolution, it has become a black market and underground business.\n\nThe following table lists several Iranian cold beverages.\n\nThe Azerbaijani people, living primarily in the region of Azerbaijan in northwestern Iran, have a number of local dishes that include Bonab kabab ('), the dumpling dish of joshpara ('), a dish identical to the Scottish haggis that is called , a variety of āsh called ', a variation of qeyme that is called ', and a variation of kufte that is called '. There is also the traditional pastry of shekerbura ('), which is identical to Khorasan's shekarpare (). Despite the influences from Turkey, the food tastes noticeably Iranian, though also with its own unique features, such as using more lemon juice and butter than other groups of Iranians.\n\nMeat and dates are the main ingredients in the cuisine of Iran's southeastern region of Baluchistan. Rice is primarily cultivated in the region of Makran. Foods that are specific to the Iranian region of Baluchistan include tanurche (; ), a local variety of grilled meat that is prepared in a tanur, doogh-pa (), a type of khoresh that contains doogh, and tabahag (), that is meat prepared with pomegranate powder. Baluchi cuisine also includes several date-based dishes, as well as various types of bread.\n\nThe southern coast of the Caspian Sea, which consists of the Iranian provinces of Gilan, Mazanderan, and Golestan, has a fertile environment that is also reflected in its cuisine. Kateh is a method of cooking rice that originates from this region. This type of rice dish is also eaten there as a breakfast meal, either heated with milk and jam or cold with cheese and garlic. Caviar fish roes also hail from this region, and are typically served with eggs in frittatas and omelettes. Local cookies () of the region are also popular.\n\nThe region of Kurdistan in western Iran is home to a variety of local āsh, pilaf, and stew dishes. Some local Kurdish dishes include a traditional grilled rib meat that is called , a type of khoresh made of chives that is called , and a dish of rice and baked apple that is called .\n\nThe food of southern Iran is typically spicy. Mahyawa is a tangy sauce made of fermented fish in this region. Being a coastal region, Khuzestan's cuisine includes especially seafood, as well as some unique local beverages. In southern Khuzestan, there is also a variation of kufte that is known as \"kibbeh\" and is made of ground meat, cracked wheat, different types of herbs and vegetables and various spices.\n\nIran's Turkmen people are predominantly centered in the Iranian provinces of Golestan and North Khorasan. Chegderme () is a Turkmen dish made of rice, meat, and tomato paste.\n\nThe basic traditional Iranian breakfast consists of a variety of flat breads, butter cubes, white cheese, whipped heavy cream (sarshir; often sweetened with honey), and a variety of fruit jams and spreads.\n\nMany cities and towns across Iran feature their own distinct versions of breakfast dishes. Pache, a popular traditional dish widely eaten in Iran and the neighboring Caucasus, is almost always only served from three in the morning until sometime after dawn, and specialty restaurants (serving only pache) are only open during those hours.\n\nTraditional Iranian cooking is done in stages, at times needing hours of preparation and attention. The outcome is a well-balanced mixture of herbs, meat, beans, dairy products, and vegetables. Major staples of Iranian food that are usually eaten with every meal include rice, various herbs, cheese, a variety of flat breads, and some type of meat (usually poultry, beef, lamb, or fish). Stew over rice is by far the most popular dish, and the constitution of these vary by region.\n\nTraditional Iranian table setting firstly involves the tablecloth, called \"sofre\", and is spread out over either a table or a rug. Main dishes are concentrated in the middle, surrounded by smaller dishes containing appetizers, condiments, and side dishes, all of which are nearest to the diners. When the food is perfectly served, an invitation is made to seat at the \"sofre\" and start having the meal.\n\nAlthough the Arabic cookbooks written under the rule of the Abbasid Caliphate—one of the Arab caliphates which ruled Iran after the Muslim invasion—include some recipes with Iranian names, the earliest surviving classical cookbooks in Persian are two volumes from the Safavid period. The older one is entitled \"Manual on cooking and its craft\" (\"Kār-nāmeh dar bāb e tabbāxī va sanat e ān\") written in 927/1521 for an aristocratic patron at the end of the reign of Ismail I. The book originally contained 26 chapters, listed by the author in his introduction, but chapters 23 through 26 are missing from the surviving manuscript. The recipes include measurements for ingredients—often detailed directions for the preparation of dishes, including the types of utensils and pots to be used—and instructions for decorating and serving them. In general, the ingredients and their combinations in various recipes do not differ significantly from those in use today. The large quantities specified, as well as the generous use of such luxury ingredients as saffron, suggest that these dishes were prepared for large aristocratic households, even though in his introduction, the author claimed to have written it \"for the benefit of the nobility, as well as the public.\"\n\nThe second surviving Safavid cookbook, entitled \"The substance of life, a treatise on the art of cooking\" (\"Māddat al-ḥayāt, resāla dar ʿelm e ṭabbāxī\"), was written about 76 years later by a chef for Abbas I. The introduction of that book includes elaborate praise of God, the prophets, the imams, and the shah, as well as a definition of a master chef. It is followed by six chapters on the preparation of various dishes: four on rice dishes, one on qalya, and one on āsh. The measurements and directions are not as detailed as in the earlier book. The information provided is about dishes prepared at the royal court, including references to a few that had been created or improved by the shahs themselves. Other contemporary cooks and their specialties are also mentioned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120590", "title": "John Peyton", "text": "John Peyton\n\nJohn Peyton may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2120594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120594", "title": "Black Drin", "text": "Black Drin\n\nThe Black Drin, or Black Drim (, ) is a river in North Macedonia and Albania. It flows out of Lake Ohrid in Struga, North Macedonia. It is long and its drainage basin is . Its average discharge is . After about it crosses the border to Albania, west of Debar, North Macedonia. It merges with the White Drin in Kukës to form the Drin, which flows into the Adriatic Sea. It drains most of the eastern border region of Albania. The name is ancient - Drinius, Trinius (Pliny), Δρεῖνος (Ptolemy). Its origin is Illyrian from older \"*Drūn\", from Indo-European \"*drū\"- into Old Indian \"drāvayate\", run, flow, Avestan \"dru\", run.\nThis part of Albania is an agricultural-based site. The main agricultural products are corn and barley; silviculture is evolving, as well. The Ohrid trout, which is a form of salmon, can also be found in parts of the river at times.\n"}
{"id": "2120598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120598", "title": "WXB 102", "text": "WXB 102\n\nWXB 102 is a former Metro Manila FM radio station and current Internet radio station that plays new wave, punk rock, synthpop, electronic music, dance-punk, post-punk, classic alternative rock and more from the UK, US, Philippines and the rest of the world.\n\nBroadcasting from Pasay City at 102.7 MHz (initially at 102.5 MHz) on the FM dial,DWXB-FM, also referred to as WXB 102, was the first all-new wave music radio station in the Philippines. It was owned by Universal Broadcasting Network during its existence. Tagged as \"The Station That Dares to Be Different\", WXB 102 targeted the youth demographic, bringing new wave music to the Philippine mainstream and inspiring regional rock artists such as The Dawn, Identity Crisis and Violent Playground, all of whom were championed by the station at a time when guitar-based OPM was ignored by the other local outlets with the exception of a weekly show on DZRJ-AM in the early 1980s.\n\nPrior to switching to new wave, the DWXB-FM management flirted with disco in the late 1970s and then adopted the American Top 40 format in 1982, dubbing itself as Cute 102. By 1983, WXB 102 started including new wave acts from the UK into the Top 40 mix, due to the influence of the late DJ Mark Fournier and his Uncle Eric. In 1984, new wave began erupting in Manila's dance clubs thanks to the city's mobile discos, who often spun records imported from Europe, and the proliferation of new wave music videos on Philippine TV. WXB 102 gradually evolved into a new wave radio station with the Fournier; The Unbeatable, the alias of Dave Ryan; and Rico Severino, known as J.J. Michaels. WXB 102 briefly competed with another new wave and disco radio station in Manila, DZBM-FM 105.1 MHz (now DWBM-FM 105.1) which then dubbed as Power 105 BM FM (now 105.1 Crossover) in 1985.\n\nIt was only in 1986 when the station went full-blown \"new music\" in format with the line-up of The Morning Man or Inggo & his Request Round-Up at sign-on; Cool Carla; Julius Caesar; George Frederick, who was also the Program Director; Fat Albert & his program Rock Wave; and The Ghost. Later, Allan K joined the staff deejays after an on-air search. A pair of blocktime shows that caught the youth market by the neck back then were Radio Manila and Capital Radio, specializing in local underground punk scene and UK and U.S. imports that characterized a harsher or more avant-garde side to alternative music. At this point, \"The Station That Dares to Be Different\" became the station's official slogan.\n\nDespite its relatively low power of roughly 1 kilowatt, WXB 102 developed a huge following in places where its signal could be picked up.\n\nIn 1986, WXB 102 was the Philippines' most influential music station, its popularity putting pressure on regional labels to belatedly release the entire discographies of several new wave artists. On the surface, their new wave format could be compared to overseas stations like KROQ-FM and CFNY-FM, but WXB 102 probed the genre for deeper cuts and more obscure acts, giving massive exposure to little-known or forgotten new wave artists from the UK. WXB 102, with the new wave market to itself and surprising Top 10 ratings, concentrated on pleasing its followers instead of playing to the masses.\n\nBy 1987, while the new wave era was sadly and mistakenly pronounced dead in America, the genre hadn't even reached its peak in Manila. Albums once unavailable were continuing to be licensed to Philippine labels, a lot of it being credited to WXB 102. However, 1987 would be WXB 102's final year. The new Corazon C. Aquino-led government began sequestering properties owned by her predecessor Ferdinand Marcos and his cronies, including the home studio that WXB FM beamed from.\n\nOn June 9, 1987, despite attempts to keep it on the air, WXB 102 signed-off the air in Manila.\n\nIn November 1987, seeing that the absence of WXB 102 left a void on Manila radio that could be capitalized upon, NU 107 debuted at 107.5 MHz with a series of test broadcasts that resurrected the old WXB 102 format in what was termed a \"New Rock\" format. It essentially picked up where WXB 102 left off, debuting several late 1980s new wave acts such as INXS, When in Rome, Johnny Hates Jazz, Red Flag, Camouflage, The Sisters of Mercy and Information Society.\n\nIn 1988, Mickey the Clown from WXB 102 reappeared on DWBC-AM as Mick Flame and hosted a 102-styled show often featuring former WXB 102 DJs as guests.\n\nIn late 1987, 102.7 WSM The Gentle Wind (now 102.7 Star FM) under the call sign DWSM was acquired and launched by People's Broadcasting Services, with a greatly increased twenty-five kilowatt signal, and at the same time, the station started carrying an easy listening format, until 1994 when it was reformatted to 102.7 Star FM with a format targeting the masses.\n\nIn 1998, the \"A Tribute to XB102\" site was envisioned by a fan and web designer from San Francisco. The goal back then was to introduce 102 music in cyberspace while tinkering with web and graphic design and to experiment with streaming broadcast of pre-recorded materials. A collaboration was then formed with Michael Sutton in 1999, hence the beginning of an exciting project that led to more materials to recreate the magic of the station. Two of the original DJs, Mark Fournier (known as Magic) and Dave Ryan \"The Unbeatable\" was going to join in the project but Magic died during his trip in San Francisco. In 2002, Neographix, the company hosting the tribute site was to shut down, which led to the end of this short-lived dream but creative tribute site.\n\nOn 10 September 2005, lifelong fan and new wave historian Michael Sutton, CEO of the independent label Sutton Records, revived WXB 102 in cyberspace, fulfilling a decade-old fantasy that had its online roots in the no-budget taped broadcasts. With Seattle-based DJ Brent Sanders as engineer and Los Angeles-based Filipino DJ Klyde using his WXB102 Forever website as the station's HQ, Sutton brought WXB 102 back on air. Sutton proceeded to recruit some of WXB's original staff, including Mick Flame, The Morning Man, and Cool Carla, to record their first WXB shows in 18 years.\n\nListeners could now hear WXB 102 through webstreaming powered by Live365. In 2006, WXB 102 started playing the most recent songs from new wave legends, and current indie and alternative acts such as Bloc Party, Franz Ferdinand, Kaiser Chiefs and The Killers, as well as reggae and ska.\n\nOn October 23, 2006, WXB 102 became the first online music station to have a countdown hosted by DJs in various countries.\n\nOn January 15, 2007, WXB 102 began broadcasting live for the first time since going off the air nearly 20 years before. WXB 102's legendary program director/DJ (and former NU107's \"Ballad of the Times\" co-host) George Frederick returned to the airwaves along with The Ghost, Mick Flame and Naughty Natty, one of the station's original volunteers. Two days later, Julius Caesar came back to the station, also broadcasting live from Manila. WXB 102 is the only Internet-based new wave radio station with live DJs broadcasting daily.\n\nOn July 26, 2007, WXB 102 became the highest rating Internet radio station in the dance-punk category on Live365.\n\nOn April 23, 2010, after almost 5 years with Live365, WXB transferred its live broadcast to USTREAM. The station is currently broadcasting via Mixlr.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120600", "title": "James Horan (actor)", "text": "James Horan (actor)\n\nJames Horan (born December 14, 1954 in Louisville, Kentucky) is an American character actor.\n\nHoran has appeared in many television programs and films. He has starred in several soap operas, including \"Guiding Light\" as Detective Kirk Winters in 1980–1981, \"Another World\" as Denny Hobson (1981–1982), \"General Hospital\" as Brett Madison (1985–1987), and \"All My Children\" as Creed Kelly (1988–1989). In 1982, Horan subbed for Larkin Malloy who had been injured in a car accident, playing Sky Whitney on \"The Edge of Night\" while Malloy recuperated. Years later, Horan originated the role of Clay Alden on \"Loving\", playing that part from 1989 to 1991. When the role was recast several years later, Malloy assumed the role.\n\nHoran also appeared in four of the \"Star Trek\" spin-off series. He appeared twice in \"\" in 1993, first as an alien named \"Jo'Bril\" in the episode \"\", and later as \"Lieutenant Barnaby\" in the episode \"\". In 1997, he appeared on \"\" as \"Tosin\" in the episode \"\" and on \"\" as a Jem'Hadar named \"Ikat'ika\" in the episodes \"In Purgatory's Shadow\" and \"By Inferno's Light\". Horan had a recurring role in the first two seasons of \"\" as the enigmatic figure whom fans called \"Future Guy\".\n\nHoran's television guest appearances include roles on \"Werewolf\", \"Remington Steele\", \"Zorro\", \"Melrose Place\", \"Lost\" and \"\". He appeared on a season 6 episode of \"24\".\n\nIn addition to his television and film work, Horan has provided voices for several video games, including several \"Star Trek\" and \"Star Wars\" games. He also provided the voice for the antagonist Skull Face in \"Metal Gear Solid V\". In 2012, he appeared as the sheriff in commercials for 5-hour Energy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120601", "title": "Annenberg Center on Communication Leadership &amp; Policy", "text": "Annenberg Center on Communication Leadership &amp; Policy\n\nThe Annenberg Center on Communication Leadership & Policy (CCLP) at the University of Southern California promotes interdisciplinary research in communications between the USC School of Cinematic Arts, Viterbi School of Engineering, and the separate USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism, also funded by Walter Annenberg.\n\nPeople affiliated with the CCLP include Julian Bleecker, John Seely Brown, Vinton Cerf, Bill Dutton, John Gage, Joi Ito, Merlyna Lim, Eli Noam, Howard Rheingold, Adrienne Russell, Larry Smarr, Robert Stein, Douglas Thomas, and Robert Winter.\n\nIn March 2007, it was announced that, effective July 2007, the focus of the Annenberg Center for Communication funding strategy would undergo a major shift towards primarily funding graduate fellowships in interdisciplinary research with US$4 million annually planned for 100+ graduate fellowships.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2120603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120603", "title": "Essex skipper", "text": "Essex skipper\n\nThymelicus lineola, known in Europe as the Essex skipper and in North America as the European skipper, is a species of butterfly in the family Hesperiidae.\n\nWith a wingspan of 2.5 to 2.9 cm, it is very similar in appearance to the small skipper \"Thymelicus sylvestris\". They can be told apart by the undersides of the tips of their antennae: the Essex skipper's antennae are black, whereas those of the small skipper are orange. This butterfly occurs throughout much of the Palaearctic region. Its range is from southern Scandinavia through Europe to North Africa and east to Central Asia It was only identified in the UK in 1889, and its range is expanding both in England and in northern Europe. In North America, this butterfly was accidentally introduced in 1910 via London, Ontario and has spread across southern Canada and into several northern US states.\nIn many parts of the Northeastern United States it is the most abundant skipper.\nEggs are laid in strings on the stems of grasses where they remain over the winter. The Essex skipper's favoured foodplant is cock's-foot (\"Dactylis glomerata\"), and it rarely uses the small skipper's favoured foodplant Yorkshire fog. Essex skippers' other foods include creeping soft grass (\"Holcus mollis\"), couch grass (\"Elymus repens\"), timothy-grass (\"Phleum pratense\"), meadow foxtail (\"Alopecurus pratensis\"), false brome (\"Brachypodium sylvaticum\") and tor-grass (\"Brachypodium pinnatum\"). This skipper's caterpillars emerge in the spring and feed until June before forming shelters from leaves tied with silk at the base of the foodplant to pupate. Adults fly from July through August. Like most skippers, they are fairly strictly diurnal, though individuals are very rarely encountered during the night.\n\nThis skipper's oval eggs are pale greenish-yellow, flattened above and below with slightly depressed tops. Caterpillars are green, with yellowish incisions between their rings; each with a dorsal, darker green stripe and yellow lateral lines. A larva's head is pale brown striped with darker brown. Elongate chrysalids are yellowish-green, and each has a dark dorsal stripe seen in caterpillars.\n\n\n\n"}
