{"id": "2102277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102277", "title": "The Brothers of Destruction", "text": "The Brothers of Destruction\n\nThe Brothers of Destruction were a professional wrestling tag team in WWE, composed of storyline half-brothers, The Undertaker and Kane. They feuded and teamed together on and off from 1997, winning three tag team championships (two WWF Tag Team Championships and one WCW Tag Team Championship).\n\nAfter The Undertaker won the WWF Championship at WrestleMania 13, Paul Bearer, who had been engaged in a long period of mutual hostility with the Undertaker ever since Bearer's betrayal at SummerSlam 1996, attempted to reunite with him on \"Raw is War\". When Undertaker rejected his attempt at a reunion however, Undertaker's arch-enemy, Mankind, along with Bearer, launched a fireball into The Undertaker's face. This continued at April's when The Undertaker returned the favor, launching a fireball of his own into the face of his former manager, who had unsuccessfully attempted to assist Mankind to victory in their WWF Championship match. On the May 12 episode of Raw, Mankind reintroduced Bearer, whose face was heavily bandaged due to the burns the Undertaker had inflicted upon him. Bearer again made efforts to get Undertaker to be his protege; this time around, however, threatening the exposure of The Undertaker's \"deepest, darkest secret.\" During the cryptic interview, Bearer likened the fire that had burned his face at Revenge of the Taker to a fire that had occurred during The Undertaker's childhood (the secret).\n\nThe secret in question suggested that Bearer had a traumatic past with The Undertaker, long preceding Brother Love's joining the two as manager and protege in January 1991. The secret was as follows: The Undertaker's mother had an affair with Bearer and as a result, gave birth to a younger half-brother of The Undertaker, named Kane. While growing up, Undertaker (and presumably his deceased father) lived the vast majority of their lives under the belief that Kane was fully related to him and his family; that is, until Bearer unintentionally (kayfabe) revealed to a \"Raw\" audience that he was actually Kane's father. This came to light when Bearer informed Jerry Lawler on \"Monday Night Raw\", at a point in which he thought cameras had stopped rolling for a commercial but were still on. Growing up, Undertaker lived in a funeral home with his family. According to the secret, The Undertaker committed arson/murder, burning down the family funeral home, in the process, killing his parents and scarring his half-brother's face. Bearer, who survived the fire, hid Kane in a mental asylum during the rest of Kane's youth into adulthood. In the meantime, Bearer went on to form an alliance with The Undertaker while in the World Wrestling Federation, standing by his side for six years before eventually turning on him at SummerSlam.\n\nAfter suffering mistreatment at the hands of Undertaker, who had become vindictive and embittered over the betrayal, Bearer opted to exact his own vengeance upon the Undertaker with the ultimatum of revealing his biggest secret. Feeling he had no choice, The Undertaker eventually obliged Bearer. While \"managing\" Undertaker this time around, Bearer became a tyrant, harassing and nagging at Undertaker constantly. At numerous points in which Undertaker attempted to take attitude, disobey, or even defend himself, Bearer would subjugate him by threatening exposure of the secret.\n\nEventually, Undertaker lost his patience and refused to allow Bearer to manage him any longer, leading to Bearer's exposure of the secret. At the time, Undertaker denied charges of committing the arson/murder, claiming his younger half-brother, a pyromaniac, was the culprit and due to the incident couldn't possibly even be alive. Bearer accused The Undertaker of not only being a murderer and a liar, while The Undertaker continued to deny the charges. The Undertaker thought his younger half-brother, Bearer's illegitimate son, had been dead for years, that is, until Bearer introduced Kane at on October 5, 1997, costing The Undertaker the victory in the first-ever Hell in a Cell match against Shawn Michaels. In keeping with the notion that Kane had been scarred by the fire—and to conceal Jacobs' identity—the character wore a mask, sported long hair, and wore red and black ring attire that almost covered his entire body.\n\nKane wanted to take out all of his pent-up and vindictive aggression out on the Undertaker, but Undertaker refused to face his own \"flesh and blood,\" claiming that he had vowed to his parents never to do so. Kane attacked and humiliated The Undertaker on several occasions, even going through lengths in challenging him to fights, but Undertaker still refused to fight his \"brother\". After Kane surprisingly saved Undertaker from an attack by the D.O.A, the duo had a brief partnership which ended after Kane betrayed Undertaker by costing Undertaker a casket match against WWF Champion Shawn Michaels at the 1998 Royal Rumble. He chokeslammed Undertaker into the casket, giving Michaels the win. After the match, Kane and Paul Bearer locked Undertaker in the casket and set it ablaze. The Undertaker returned on the March 2 episode of \"Raw is War\", revealing that he had spoken to the spirits of his dead parents, and declared his intention to fight Kane. This led to a match at WrestleMania XIV, which Undertaker won after hitting Kane with three tombstone piledrivers. They met once again in the first-ever Inferno match at , which again Undertaker won by burning his brother. On June 1, 1998 episode of \"Raw is War\", they wrestled in a number one contender's match for the WWF Championship, which Kane won with help from Mankind.\n\nOn the June 8 episode of \"Raw Is War\", Kane and Mankind attacked WWF Champion Stone Cold Steve Austin. On the following episode of \"Raw is War\", Austin blamed Mr. McMahon for setting up the attack; McMahon denied it and blamed the attack on The Undertaker, who denied setting up the attack and teamed up with Steve Austin to face Kane and Mankind in the first ever tag team Hell in a Cell match, which ended in no contest as the referee failed to restore order in the match (actually, Underaker and Austin won the match but it wasn't shown on TV). At King of the Ring 1998, Kane and Austin faced each other in a First Blood match for Austin's WWF Championship. The stipulation was that if Kane lost, he would set himself on fire. The referee was knocked out and Undertaker interfered in the match with a steel chair and came to hit Kane with the chair, but accidentally nailed Austin with the chair, which helped Kane to win the championship. Undertaker formed a partnership with Kane after he later revealed that he intentionally attacked Austin because he didn't want his brother to be burned. Undertaker started a rivalry with Steve Austin, who later regained the WWF title from Kane while Kane and Mankind won the WWF Tag Team Championship. At , the duo were forced to team up together and defeat Kane and Mankind to win the titles.\n\nThey dropped the titles back to Kane and Mankind in a fatal-four way tag team elimination match, also involving The New Age Outlaws (Billy Gunn and Road Dogg) and Nation of Domination (The Rock and D'Lo Brown) on an episode of \"Raw is War\" on August 10, 1998. During the Undertaker and Austin's WWF Championship match at SummerSlam, Undertaker and Kane were revealed to be working together, after Kane abandoned Mankind during their tag team title defense against New Age Outlaws and instead interfered in the Undertaker's title match. However, Undertaker sent him to the back. As a result, Austin nailed the Stone Cold Stunner for a victory. At , Kane, Undertaker and Austin competed in a triple threat match for Austin's WWF title; per the stipulation, Undertaker and Kane were forbidden from pinning each other, making it a de facto handicap match. At the end of the title match, they pinned Austin at the same time.\n\nVince McMahon vacated the title since there was no clear winner, and scolded Kane and Undertaker for letting Austin attack him. However, Undertaker and Kane responded to Vince's scolding by breaking his leg with the steel stairs. At , Kane and Undertaker faced each other for the vacant title with Austin as the special referee; Undertaker turned heel during the match as he betrayed Kane to side with Paul Bearer, thus turning Kane into a tweener. The match ended in a no contest as Austin attacked Undertaker after Undertaker knocked out Kane with a steel chair and declared himself the winner. Shortly after, Undertaker admitted to setting the fire that scarred Kane's face when they were children, claiming that he had always known that Kane was the weaker sibling. Their feud continued when Undertaker faced Austin at in a Buried Alive match; during the match, Kane interfered and attacked Undertaker, thus helping Austin get the win. They separated from each other and went on their own.\n\nIn early 1999, with Kane now a member of The Corporation and Undertaker now the leader of the Ministry of Darkness, they faced each other in their second Inferno match, which Undertaker once again won. In the summer of 1999, The Undertaker's Ministry of Darkness was beginning to fade away, while Kane was in a tag team with X-Pac, with whom he won the WWF Tag Team Championship twice. The Undertaker attempted to reunite the Brothers of Destruction, but Kane made the ultimate decision to remain in his team with X-Pac after learning the Undertaker only wanted to use him. Shortly after, Undertaker would form The Unholy Alliance with Big Show, with whom he won the WWF Tag Team Championship twice, to feud with Kane and X-Pac. The Undertaker eventually was injured in the fall of 1999, with Kane going his own way again. They reunited again in the summer of 2000; at this time, Undertaker had taken on the \"American Badass\" biker persona instead of the satanic character he had portrayed previously. They challenged Tag Team Champions Edge and Christian for the tag titles on an episode of \"Raw is War\", but they were disqualified, so they didn't win the titles. On the August 14 episode of \"Raw is War\", Undertaker faced Chris Benoit in a match, where Kane turned on Undertaker by chokeslamming him through the ring, and the two feuded with each other again. This culminated in a match at SummerSlam, which resulted in a no contest when Undertaker unmasked Kane, causing him to flee the ring.\n\nAt Royal Rumble in 2001, Kane and Undertaker teamed up eliminating most of the field in the Royal Rumble match; Kane entered number 6 and finished second eliminating 11 wrestlers, while Undertaker came in at number 25 and came sixth after being eliminated by Rikishi. The two reunited later that same month, and on the February 1 episode of \"SmackDown!\", they defeated Rikishi and Haku in a First Blood match. They got a shot at the tag titles at No Way Out, facing the champions The Dudley Boyz (Bubba Ray and D-Von) and Edge and Christian in a tables match, but lost when Rikishi and Haku interfered. At WrestleMania X-Seven, Kane defeated Raven and Big Show to win the WWF Hardcore Championship, and The Undertaker defeated Triple H.\n\nThe Undertaker and Kane started focusing on then-Intercontinental Champion Triple H, who would soon make a surprise alliance with WWF Champion Steve Austin known as Two-Man Power Trip. They were granted an opportunity to face Steve Austin and Triple H at Backlash, if they could defeat Edge and Christian in a no-disqualification match for the titles. On April 19 episode of \"SmackDown!\", Undertaker and Kane defeated Edge and Christian to win their first WWF Tag Team Championship as a team, despite interference from Austin and Triple H. As a result of winning the titles, Brothers of Destruction earned the right to face Steve Austin and Triple H. At Backlash, all major titles were on the line but despite that, Triple H pinned Kane after using a sledgehammer, thus making him and Austin the new WWF Tag Team Champions as well as the WWF Intercontinental Champion and WWF Champion, respectively.\n\nWith Kane injured, The Undertaker began targeting Steve Austin and his WWF Championship. On an episode of \"Raw is War\", Undertaker was told by police officers that his wife Sara had been involved in a car accident; The Undertaker arrived home, only to find out that it was all a set-up by Austin. At Judgment Day 2001, Kane defeated Triple H to win the WWF Intercontinental Championship in a chain match, despite interference from Steve Austin. Later that night, Triple H interfered in the Undertaker's WWF Championship match, using his sledgehammer, allowing Austin to pin The Undertaker and retain his championship.\n\nDiamond Dallas Page was the Undertaker's next target; Page wanted to become a big star like the Undertaker, and started a feud with him, taking The Undertaker's slogan, \"I'll make you famous\" quite figuratively. The basis of this feud involved Page stalking Undertaker's wife Sara, hoping to get the Undertaker's attention. On the August 9 episode of \"SmackDown!\", the Brothers defeated The Natural Born Thrillers (Chuck Palumbo and Sean O'Haire) to win the WCW Tag Team Championship. At SummerSlam 2001, The Undertaker and Kane defeated Diamond Dallas Page and Chris Kanyon in a steel cage match to win their second WWF Tag Team Championship and retain the WCW Tag Team Championship, thus briefly unifying the two titles.\n\nThe Brothers of Destruction began a feud with KroniK (Brian Adams and Bryan Clark), who were brought to WWF by Stevie Richards. Richards wanted revenge on the Undertaker for what happened to him on the April 26, 2001 episode of SmackDown!, when Undertaker faced Richards' Right to Censor stable in a 4-on-1 handicap match, causing the stable to disband. On the September 17 episode of \"Raw is War\", Kane and Undertaker lost the WWF tag titles to The Dudley Boyz after KroniK interfered. At Unforgiven, they successfully defended their WCW tag titles against KroniK, before losing them to Booker T and Test on the following episode of \"SmackDown!\". They continued on as a team representing the WWF side through to the end of the Alliance Invasion angle, including their participation at InVasion and Survivor Series, after which The Undertaker immediately turned heel once more and the two did not interact with each other for a long while.\n\nThe duo first appeared together in 2002's WWE draft, standing right next to each other when Undertaker was drafted to \"Raw\". The duo next appeared together during the first few moments of No Mercy as they both respectively had title matches that night, with Undertaker challenging Brock Lesnar for the WWE Championship inside Hell in a Cell and Kane defending his Intercontinental Title in a unification match against Triple H for the World Heavyweight Championship. They next teamed up again unofficially at the Royal Rumble in 2003, but Undertaker turned on Kane during the Royal Rumble match and eliminated him. Later that year at the Survivor Series, an unmasked and heel Kane interfered in the Buried Alive match between The Undertaker and Mr. McMahon, costing Undertaker the match. Kane would go on to say that Undertaker was buried forever. The two would end the feud with a match at WrestleMania XX in 2004, in which The Undertaker returned to his \"Deadman\" character, and defeated his half-brother Kane.\n\nThe demonic duo had a short run-in with each other in 2005; at the Royal Rumble, Undertaker was in a scheduled match against the then-heel Heidenreich in a casket match. Before the match, Gene Snitsky, who was in a feud with the then-face gimmick Kane, told Heidenreich he would help him that night. Due to the interference, Heidenreich was positioned to win. However, when the casket was asked to be opened, Kane emerged from the casket coming to his aid, attacked, and battled Snitsky out of the arena, allowing his brother, The Undertaker to defeat Heidenreich and gain the victory. Originally, those plans were for this to lead up to a tag team match at WrestleMania 21, but was scrapped when The Undertaker instead decided to take on Randy Orton, and Kane would compete in the Money in the Bank ladder match.\n\nThe last time Kane and the Undertaker would meet in 2005 was during an interpromotional match where neither of the men from \"Raw\" or \"SmackDown\" were involved. While Kane, who was helping his partner Big Show against Rey Mysterio, pretended to leave when Undertaker entered the arena, he would inevitably receive a chokeslam from Undertaker after a failed sneak attack. Notably, both brothers were faces at the time, however Kane was a member of the Raw brand and Undertaker was a member of the SmackDown brand. Because the match was held on \"SmackDown\" (and the \"SmackDown\" brand was portrayed more favorably in that year's brand warfare storyline), Kane and Big Show were portrayed as tweeners without ever officially turning in that direction.\n\nThe return of the Brothers of Destruction was announced on October 27, 2006 episode of \"SmackDown!\". Montel Vontavious Porter (MVP) interfered with Kane's match against Mr. Kennedy, helping Kennedy beat down on him before the lights went out and the Undertaker's music came on. When the lights came back on Kane was gone, nowhere to be found. As a result of the interference, General Manager Theodore Long scheduled a tag team match: The Brothers of Destruction vs. Kennedy and MVP. The next week on \"SmackDown!\", the Brothers of Destruction reunited for the first time as a tag team in five years and gathered three wins over MVP and Mr Kennedy in that one night. The first two wins were made by countout, and a disqualification at which point General Manager Theodore Long twice came out and restarted the match with no disqualifications or countouts. Finally, the brothers hit simultaneous chokeslams, and Undertaker finished with a \"Tombstone Piledriver\" to Mr. Kennedy.\n\nThe brothers continued their rivalry with their individual opponents before reuniting for a rematch on the last \"SmackDown!\" before Armageddon. This time, the match would go to a double disqualification as Kennedy threatened to run over Kane with a hearse parked ringside. The Undertaker, who had run off MVP, emerged in the passenger seat as his gong tolled and the lights went out, thus scaring Kennedy out of the vehicle. At Armageddon, Undertaker defeated Kennedy in a Last Ride match, which was why the hearse had been at ringside for the last two weeks, and Kane defeated MVP earlier in an inferno match. The next week on \"SmackDown!\", the Brothers would reunite once again, defeating King Booker and Finlay, before parting ways as Kane began a rivalry with The Great Khali while Undertaker successfully pursued the World Heavyweight Championship at WrestleMania 23.\n\nOn October 12, 2007 episode of \"SmackDown!\", the Brothers of Destruction reunited for the first time in 2007, defeating then WWE Tag Team Champions MVP and Matt Hardy in a non-title match. The Brothers of Destruction reunited for the first time in 2008 on the February 1, 2008 episode of \"SmackDown\", defeating Big Daddy V and Mark Henry by submission. At WrestleMania XXIV, after Kane won a well-earned 24-man Battle Royal and used a sneak attack in gaining the second ever WrestleMania record for the fastest pin later that night, and Undertaker won the Elimination Chamber match earning his No.1 Contender shot at No Way Out, both brothers became world champions: with Kane winning the ECW Championship from Chavo Guerrero, and the Undertaker winning the World Heavyweight Championship from Edge.\n\nOn the April 4, 2008 episode of \"SmackDown\", Undertaker and Kane faced each other for the first time since WrestleMania XX. The match finished with no decision as \"La Familia\" (Edge, Chavo Guerrero, and Curt Hawkins and Zack Ryder) interfered. In tandem, however, Kane and Undertaker delivered a Chokeslam and Tombstone Piledriver to Chavo and Edge respectively. The Brothers of Destruction also made an appearance when ECW'traveled to London, England on April 15, 2008, facing then WWE Tag Team Champions John Morrison and The Miz who also fell victim to tandem chokeslams. On the April 21, 2008 episode of \"Raw\", the Brothers of Destruction teamed with John Cena and Triple H to take on the team of John \"Bradshaw\" Layfield (JBL), Chavo Guerrero, and the one night only reunion of Rated-RKO (Edge and Randy Orton) in a losing effort, after Edge hit Kane with a spear.\n\nOn the November 13, 2009 episode of \"SmackDown\", after his match with Chris Jericho which was ended after interference from Jericho's partner Big Show, Kane came to the aid of his \"brother\" to chase off \"Jeri-Show\". The Brothers of Destruction would reunite on the November 20 episode to face the Jeri-Show, but the match ended in no contest, and Jericho subsequently fled the ring during the match after pilfering the Undertaker's championship belt. On the June 4 episode of \"SmackDown\", SmackDown General Manager Theodore Long announced that The Undertaker was found in a vegetative state by Kane, who vowed to out the identity of Undertaker's attacker, and for weeks he accused and interrogated other superstars. At Money in the Bank, Kane won the Money in the Bank ladder match to win a World Heavyweight Championship title shot any time, anywhere. Later that night, Kane chased off one of The Undertaker's potential attackers, Jack Swagger, who was attacking Rey Mysterio. Kane then returned to cash in his Money in the Bank contract to win the World Heavyweight Championship. Kane would then claim that Rey Mysterio was The Undertaker's attacker, although Mysterio denied it. At SummerSlam, Kane defended his championship against Mysterio, during which The Undertaker returned to confront Kane and Rey Mysterio. Undertaker, however, was tombstoned by Kane, who was revealed to be the Undertaker's attacker the entire time, Thus resulted in a feud between the two.\n\nKane and Undertaker met at Night of Champions, which Undertaker lost. With Kane seeming to have grown stronger than his older \"brother\", The Undertaker was boosted by the return of his former manager, and Kane's father, Paul Bearer (who hadn't been seen for many years, since June 2004 when The Undertaker betrayed him by drowning him in a crypt of cement (seemingly paying Bearer back for his recent unforgettable betrayal at SummerSlam '96 and siding with Undertaker's arch enemy Mankind, Vader and his brother Kane). With Bearer by The Undertaker's side like old times, the two squared off again at the Hell in a Cell pay-per-view in a Hell in a Cell match for the World Heavyweight Championship. Paul Bearer, however, betrayed The Undertaker by blinding him with the urn, allowing Kane to chokeslam him for the victory (repaying Undertaker for the Concrete Crypt burial at The Great American Bash). The feud culminated with a Buried Alive match at Bragging Rights, in which The Undertaker lost again due to interference by The Nexus, allowing Kane to bury the Undertaker alive, possibly evening a longtime score for The Undertaker's initial ablaze of his brother as children. After the event, The Undertaker went just to appear on WWE, but only sporadically.\n\nOn July 23, 2012 during \"Raw 1000\", the Brothers of Destruction reunited against Jinder Mahal, Curt Hawkins, Tyler Reks, Hunico, Camacho and Drew McIntyre when they were planning to attack Kane. This led to the return of The Undertaker, who assisted Kane in fighting off the six attackers (hinting that he forgave Kane for his betrayal). They cleared the ring before delivering simultaneous chokeslams and tombstone piledrivers to Hawkins and Hunico, after which they did their signature pose.\n\nThe Undertaker and Kane were once again reunited on the March 11, 2013 episode of \"Raw\" following the real-life death of Paul Bearer. As Undertaker was attempting to pay tribute to Bearer, he was interrupted by his WrestleMania 29 opponent, CM Punk. This caused an irate Kane to attack Punk, leading to a match between the two later in the night, which Kane won thanks to interference from The Undertaker. After the match, Punk attacked Kane with Paul Bearer’s urn leaving The Undertaker left irate in the ring. After Punk left the arena with the urn, both The Undertaker and Kane paid a final tribute to Paul Bearer by standing on the ramp and doing their signature arm pose together to a graphic of Paul Bearer on the titantron. At WrestleMania, both Undertaker and Kane were victorious, extending The Streak to 21-0 and retaining the Tag Team Championship respectively.\n\nThe Brothers of Destruction reunited once again the night following WrestleMania 29 on the April 8, 2013 episode of \"Raw\", when Kane and his Team Hell No tag partner Daniel Bryan rushed to Undertaker's aid as he was about to be attacked by The Shield. Two weeks later on the April 22 episode of \"Raw\", there was a six-man tag match between The Brothers of Destruction/Team Hell No (Undertaker, Kane and Daniel Bryan) and The Shield (Dean Ambrose, Seth Rollins and Roman Reigns), which The Shield won after separating Bryan from his teammates.\n\nOn October 25, 2015 at Hell in a Cell, The Wyatt Family attacked The Undertaker after his Hell in a Cell match with Brock Lesnar, ultimately carrying Undertaker to the back after beating him down. The following night on \"Raw\", after Bray Wyatt explained his actions, Kane came out to exact revenge for his brother, but he was also attacked and captured by The Wyatt Family. On the November 9 episode of \"Raw\", after Bray Wyatt claimed to have taken their souls, The Brothers of Destruction returned and attacked The Wyatt Family, setting up a match at Survivor Series. The Undertaker's body of dark angels, dubbed \"The Druids\", returned on the November 16 edition of \"Raw\", but Wyatt would take control of them and have them turn against the Undertaker and Kane. At Survivor Series, The Brothers of Destruction defeated Wyatt and Harper in a tag team match to end the feud.\n\nOn November 15, 2016, at SmackDown's 900th episode, The Undertaker returned to interrupt Edge's Cutting Edge segment to send a warning to the SmackDown team regarding their match at Survivor Series. After SmackDown went off the air, as Undertaker was leaving, Kane appeared on the ramp and they did their signature arm pose together.\n\nOn the March 19, 2018 episode of \"Raw\", Kane confronted John Cena after the latter had challenged The Undertaker to a match at WrestleMania 34 the week prior and attacked him with a chokeslam. This led to a No-Disqualification match the following week where Kane lost to Cena. Undertaker went on to defeat Cena at WrestleMania 34.\n\nIn October 2018, Kane and Undertaker started a feud against D-Generation X (Triple H and Shawn Michaels). At the October event in Australia WWE Super Show-Down, Undertaker faced Triple H in a singles match, with Kane and Michaels at ringside. After the match, which was won by Triple H, Undertaker and Kane attacked both Triple H and Michaels, thus reunited the team . Throughout the following weeks, both teams had various confrontations, which then led to a tag team match at Crown Jewel. At the event, Kane and Undertaker were defeated by DX. Following the match, Taker and Kane broke character and hugged one another in the middle of the ring. Both of them also did their signature arm pose together on the top of the ramp.\n\n\n The Brothers of Destruction won title during The Invasion and also held the WWF Tag Team Championship at the same time, thus briefly unifying the two championships, however they defended and lost each title on separate occasions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102279", "title": "Frans Andriessen", "text": "Frans Andriessen\n\nFranciscus Henricus Johannes Joseph \"Frans\" Andriessen (2 April 1929 – 22 March 2019) was a Dutch politician and businessman. He was a member of the defunct Catholic People's Party (KVP) and later the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA).\n\nAndriessen applied at the Utrecht University in June 1947 majoring in Law and obtaining an Bachelor of Laws degree in June 1949 and graduating with an Master of Laws degree in July 1953. Andriessen worked for a construction institute in Utrecht from October 1953 until February 1967 as a researcher from October 1953 until July 1961 and as Chief executive officer (CEO) from July 1961 until February 1967.\n\nAndriessen was elected as a Member of the House of Representatives after the election of 1967, taking office on 23 February 1967 serving as a frontbencher chairing the and spokesperson for Housing and Spatial Planning and deputy spokesperson for Local Government Affairs. On 16 August 1971 the Leader of the Catholic People's Party and Parliamentary leader of the Catholic People's Party in the House of Representatives Gerard Veringa took a leave of absence for health reasons the Catholic People's Party leadership approached Andriessen as interim Parliamentary leader, taking office on 16 August 1971. On 28 September 1971 Veringa unexpectedly announced that he was stepping down as Leader permanently and the Catholic People's Party leadership approached Andriessen as his successor, Andriessen accepted and became the Leader of the Catholic People's Party, taking office on 1 October 1971. For the election of 1972 Andriessen served as \"Lijsttrekker\" (top candidate). The Catholic People's Party suffered a loss, losing 8 seats but retained its place as the second largest party and now had 27 seats in the House of Representatives. The following second cabinet formation of 1972 resulted in a coalition agreement between the Catholic People's Party, the Labour Party (PvdA), the Anti-Revolutionary Party (ARP), the Political Party of Radicals (PPR) and the Democrats 66 (D'66) which formed the Cabinet Den Uyl with Andriessen opting to remain in the House of Representatives instead of accepting a cabinet post in the new cabinet and he continued to serve in the House of Representatives as Parliamentary leader. On 10 December 1976 the Catholic People's Party, the Anti-Revolutionary Party and the Christian Historical Union (CHU) choose to merge in a political alliance to form the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA). Incumbent Deputy Prime Minister Dries van Agt of the Catholic People's Party was choose as the first Leader of the Christian Democratic Appeal and became the \"Lijsttrekker\" for the election of 1977. The following cabinet formation of 1977 resulted in a coalition agreement between the Christian Democratic Appeal and the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) which formed the Cabinet Van Agt-Wiegel with Andriessen appointed as Minister of Finance, taking office on 19 December 1977. On 22 February 1980 Andriessen and State Secretary for Finance resigned after he disagreed with the cabinets decision to not implement a stronger austerity policy to revitalize the Economy following the recession in the 1980s. Andriessen remained in active in national politics, he was elected as a Member of the Senate after the Senate election of 1980, taking office on 16 September 1980 serving as a frontbencher and spokesperson for Finances.\n\nIn November 1980 Andriessen was nominated as the next European Commissioner from the Netherlands. Andriessen was giving the heavy portfolios of Competition and Parliamentary Relations in the Thorn Commission, he resigned as a Member of the Senate the same day he was installed as European Commissioner, taking office on 6 January 1981. In December 1984 Andriessen was re-nominated as European Commissioner. He was given the portfolios of Agriculture and Fisheries and was also appointed as the First Vice-President of the European Commission in the First Delors Commission, taking office on 6 January 1985. In November 1988 Andriessen was again re-nominated as European Commissioner. He was given the heavy portfolios of External Relations and Trade and was also re-appointed as the First Vice-President of the European Commission in the Second Delors Commission, serving from 6 January 1989 until 6 January 1993. Andriessen retired after spending 25 years in national politics and became active in the private sector and public sector and became active in the private sector and public sector and occupied numerous seats as a corporate director and nonprofit director on several boards of directors and supervisory boards (Douwe Egberts, Robeco, Royal HaskoningDHV, and the Institute of International Relations Clingendael) and as an advocate and lobbyist for Human rights, Humanitarianism, Democracy and for European integration. Andriessen also served as a distinguished professor of European integration at the Utrecht University from 1 March 1990 until 1 September 2009. Andriessen was known for his abilities as a consensus builder and negotiator. Andriessen continued to comment on political affairs as an statesman until his is death at the age of 89 and holds the distinction as the second longest-serving European Commissioner from the Netherlands with .\n\nFrom 1958 to 1967 he sat in the provincial assembly, then was elected to the States-General (Parliament). In 1971 he was elected chairman of the Catholic People’s Party in the lower house. In 1977, he joined Dries van Agt’s centre-Right coalition as finance minister. He sought bigger cuts than his party would accept, and in February 1980 tendered his resignation, precipitating a Cabinet crisis that forced Queen Juliana to interrupt a holiday in Austria. The next month he took a seat in the upper house.\n\nVan Agt nominated him to the European Commission and Andriessen took up his post in January 1981. He secured the competition portfolio, targeting restrictive practices, with the vastly differing prices of new cars in member states a priority. He settled the high-profile IBM case in 1984. But he came under fire from Socialist MEPs for blocking legislation on worker participation after objections from Shell and Unilever, and from British members for suggesting that Ravenscraig steelworks should be closed. With Gaston Thorn stepping down at the end of 1984 Andriessen was canvassed as a potential president of the Commission, but Jacques Delors had the big battalions behind him. Andriessen’s consolation was the vice-presidency and the agriculture portfolio, Brussels' toughest. Within weeks he foiled a French attempt to build an EC \"lamb mountain\".\n\nNegotiating his first farm budget, the stumbling block was German insistence on higher payments to grow cereals; Andriessen complained that the Germans sided with the British on budgetary discipline, yet wanted him to spend more. Germany vetoed the budget after six attempts to agree it. Autumn 1985 brought the first of several \"mutton wars\" between Britain and France. Andriessen blamed Britain, accusing Michael Jopling, Minister of Agriculture, of disobeying an \"order\" to change export arrangements for sheep meat. When French farmers hijacked British lamb consignments, Andriessen suggested an export tax to offset the benefits to British exporters of a weak pound; the Commission overruled him. At the start of 1986 Andriessen recommended a general price freeze for the year. He got his way after a 21-hour negotiating session, and later persuaded member states to accept drastic cuts in milk production. His next target was grain surpluses, outlining a plan to cut production which introduced the concept of \"set-aside\". This was adopted, but only after he blocked ministers' efforts to sneak grain subsidies into other parts of the budget.\n\nAt the start of 1989, Andriessen took the external relations portfolio. The Uruguay Round of GATT talks was at the top of his agenda; as a free-trader he saw a faint hope of breaking the deadlock with America. He began by warning Japan that unless it opened its markets, the EC might refuse it licences for banking in Europe. He also told Britain that if it did not want to engage fully with Europe it could go back to the European Free Trade Association (EFTA).\n\nThe fall of the Berlin Wall that autumn gave Andriessen new priorities. He proposed a \"European Economic Space\", enabling EFTA countries to participate in the single market, while opening the door to countries to the East. Within months, he was suggesting affiliate membership of the EC for former Communist satellites. France distrusted this, but the strategy was carried through, after a scare over whether Romania’s post-Ceaucescu government would allow fair elections.\n\nAndriessen’s final two years in Brussels were dominated by the GATT talks. By 1992 he was claiming that the dispute now hinged on \"a couple of million tons of European grain\". But that summer he accused America of \"harassing\" European steel producers for alleged dumping; then France demanded fresh concessions for its farmers. EC-US talks, with Andriessen and Leon Brittan leading for Europe, made no headway. Then farm subsidy negotiations collapsed, with the outgoing Bush administration blaming Europe; Andriessen promised \"countermeasures\". Ireland’s Agriculture Commissioner Ray McSharry resigned, accusing Delors of going behind his back to sabotage an agreement. Delors faced mutiny from commissioners led by Andriessen and Brittan, who resolved to outvote him on GATT, if necessary forcing his resignation. He backed off, and McSharry returned.\n\nOn 20 November 1992, Andriessen and his fellow negotiators finally concluded the GATT agreement on agriculture; the Commission ratified it despite French resistance. Andriessen left Brussels at the turn of the year confident that a full agreement ranging from textiles to intellectual property could be achieved – as it was, enabling the WTO to come into being.\n\nOut of office, he was in demand as one of Europe’s \"great and good\". This could bring him into trying company: at a symposium in Copenhagen in 1993 he was incandescent when Sir Alan Walters, Margaret Thatcher’s former economic adviser, suggested the Germans could put a portrait of Hitler on a single European currency.\n\nAndriessen was Professor of European Integration at the Rijksuniversiteit, Utrecht, from 1989. He was a Knight of the Order of the Dutch Lion, and held the Grand Cross of the Order of Orange-Nassau.\n\nHe married Catherine Ten Holter in 1955 ; she survives him with their four children.\n\n \n\n \n"}
{"id": "2102291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102291", "title": "Bar-back", "text": "Bar-back\n\nA barback or runner, as they are commonly known in Europe, is a bartender's assistant. Bar-backs work in nightclubs, bars, restaurants and catering halls, and usually receive a portion of the bartender's tips. At high volume bars, the tips are divided where more than one bar-back is present.\n\nThey are often under the tutelage of bartenders and work their way into the job. They are there to simplify a bartender's job; being involved in the bar preparation through stocking the bar with liquor, ice, glassware, beer, garnishes, and so on, during the night bussing tables, changing kegs and dishwashing, and afterwards, packing up.\n\nWhile the legal drinking age in the United States is 21, the minimum age to work as a bartender or bar-back varies from 18 to 21.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102303", "title": "Cutaneous larva migrans", "text": "Cutaneous larva migrans\n\nCutaneous larva migrans (abbreviated CLM) is a skin disease in humans, caused by the larvae of various nematode parasites of the hookworm family (Ancylostomatidae). These parasites live in the intestines of dogs, cats, and wild animals and should not be confused with other members of the hookworm family for which humans are definitive hosts, namely \"Ancylostoma duodenale\" and \"Necator americanus\".\n\nColloquially called creeping eruption due to its presentation, the disease is also somewhat ambiguously known as \"ground itch\" or (in some parts of the Southern USA) \"sandworms\", as the larvae like to live in sandy soil. Another vernacular name is plumber's itch. The medical term CLM literally means \"wandering larvae in the skin\".\n\nThe infection causes a red, intensely pruritic (itchy) eruption, and may look like twirling lesions. The itching can become very painful and if scratched may allow a secondary bacterial infection to develop. Cutaneous larva migrans usually heals spontaneously over weeks to months and has been known to last as long as one year. However, the severity of the symptoms usually causes those infected to seek medical treatment before spontaneous resolution occurs. Following proper treatment, migration of the larvae within the skin is halted and relief of the associated itching can occur in less than 48 hours (reported for thiabendazole).\n\nThis is separate from the similar cutaneous larva currens which is caused by \"Strongyloides\". Larva currens is also a cause of migratory pruritic eruptions but is marked by 1) migratory speed on the order of inches per hour 2) perianal involvement due to autoinfection from stool and 3) a wide band of urticaria.\nHookworm eggs are shed in the infected dog (or other animal) feces to the ground and beach sand, where they then develop over a period of 1–2 weeks into the infectious larval form (filariform larvae). The filariform larvae can burrow through intact skin that comes into contact with soil or sand that is contaminated with feces. Although they are able to infect the deeper tissues of animals (through to the lungs and then the intestinal tract), humans are incidental hosts and the larvae are only able to penetrate the epidermis of the skin and thus create the typical wormlike burrows visible underneath the skin. These parasites apparently lack the collagenase enzymes required to penetrate through the basement membrane deeper into the dermal layers of the skin.\n\nCLM can be treated in a number of different ways:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102314", "title": "Venad", "text": "Venad\n\nVenad (/Tamil: \"Vēṇāṭu\") was a medieval kingdom lying between the Western Ghat mountains and the Arabian Sea on the south-western tip of India with its headquarters at the port city of Kollam/Quilon. It was one of the major principalities of Kerala, along with kingdoms of Kannur (Kolathunadu), Kozhikode and Kochi (Perumpadappu) in medieval and early modern period.\n\nRulers of Venad trace their ancestry to the Vel chieftains related to the Ay lineage of the early historic south India (c. 1st – 4th century CE). Venad – ruled by hereditary \"Venad Adikal\" – appears as an autonomous chiefdom in the kingdom of the Chera/Perumals of Kodungallur from around 8th – 9th century CE. It came to occupy a position of pre-eminent importance in the structuring of the Perumal kingdom. The country was intermittently and partially subject to the Pandya kingdom and the Chola empire among others in the medieval period.\n\nVenad outlasted the Chera/Perumal kingdom, gradually developed as an independent principality, known as the Chera kingdom, and grew later into modern Travancore (18th century CE). Ravi Varma Kulasekhara, most ambitious ruler of Venad, carried out a successful military expedition to Pandya and Chola lands in the early 14th century CE.\n\nThe rulers of Venad, known in the medieval period as Venad Cheras or the Kulasekharas, claimed their ancestry from the Chera/Perumals. Venad ruler Vira Udaya Marthanda Varma (1516–1535) acknowledged the supremacy of the Vijayanagara rulers. Minor battles with Vijayanagara forces in the subsequent period are also recorded. In the 17th century, the rulers of Venad paid an annual tribute to the Nayaks of Madurai. English East India Company established a factory at Vizhinjam in 1664 and a fort was built at Ajengo in 1695. The medieval feudal relations and political authority were dismantled Marthanda Varma (1729–1758), often credited as \"the Maker of Travancore\".\nThe name \"Venad\" is believed to be derived from Vēḷ+nāṭu meaning the territory of the Vel chieftains. The earliest preserved Tamil compositions - datable to c. 1st – 4th century CE – attests presence of hill chiefs such as the \"Vels\" in southern Kerala.\n\nMedieval Ay kings claimed that they belonged to the Yadava or Vrishni lineage and this claim was advanced by the rulers of Venad and Travancore. As early as the 10th century, the powerful chiefs of Venad used the surname suffix \"Varma\", denoting the Kshatriya status of the ruling line. Panankavil Palace, whose location remains a mystery, was the royal residence of the Venad rulers at Kollam.\n\nVenad had a kind of chiefly rule with principles of succession, indicated by the term \"kuru\", that is, the rights of the chief and the order of succession within the chief's household. Rulers of the extended Venad royal family lived at different locations in the kingdom. Migrations and setting up new palaces continued into the early modern period. Political authority of a complex nature was followed by the Kerala joint families. Trippappur, Desinganad, Chiravay and Elayadam branches of the family were called \"swaroopams\". The swaroopams were further divided into matrilineal descent groups (the thavazhis).\n\nSources refer to the ruler of Venad as controlling parts of Trivandrum district, Kollam and presumably parts of Alleppey and Kottayam districts (and Kanyakumari district in later times). The autonomous chiefdom (\"nadu\") of Venad came to occupy pre-eminent importance in the structuring of the Chera/Perumal kingdom. The rulers of Venad owed their importance to exchange of spices and other products with the Middle Eastern and Chinese merchants. Venetian adventurer Marco Polo claimed to have visited Venad capital Kollam, a major centre of commerce and trade with East and West Asia. European colonisers arrived at Kollam the late fifteenth century, primarily in pursuit of the Indian spices and textiles.\n\nIt would appear that the whole region of medieval Venad was part of the Ay country in early historic south India (c. 1st – 4th century CE). Veliyans belonging to the Ay family were the hill chiefs of the \"Vel country\". Towards the close of the early historic period the Pandya supremacy might have extended to the Ay territory (through it is likely that the Ays gained their independence from the Pandyas during the so-called Kalabhra period).\n\nIn the middle of the 8th century CE, the Pandya sacked port Vizhinjam, and took possession the Ay Vel country. This foray brought the Chera-Perumal kings of Kodungallur (Makotai) into the conflict and a prolonged Pandya-Ay/Chera struggle followed. By the middle of the 9th century CE, as a result of the encroachment of the Pandyas and Cheras, the ancient Ay country was partitioned into two portions. Venad (Vel+natu = the country of the Vel people) with its base at Kollam came under influence of the Cheras while the Ay country, or what was left of it, came under the influence of the Pandyas. \n\nA new calendar was known as the \"Kollam Era\", was established in 825 CE at port Kollam. The exact events that lead to the foundation of the era is still matter of scholarly debate. According to historians, it commemorated the foundation of Kollam harbour city after the liberation of Venad from the Pandya rule (and hence beginning of Chera influence). The Kollam Syrian plates (c. 849 CE and c. 883 CE) of Venad chieftain Ayyan Adikal, does mention the then Chera king Sthanu Ravi. The chief was providing land and other provisions to the Christian merchant Mar Sapir Iso at the port of Kollam. The rulers of Venad, known as \"Venad Adikal\", owed their importance to exchange of spices and other products with the Middle Eastern and Chinese merchants. \n\nThe chiefs of Venad were always determined to extend their sway into the Ay territory. There is a possibility that chieftains captured the whole region down to Kottar (Kanyakumari) by 10th century CE. In general, the influence of the Kerala rulers spread into the ancient Ay territory in the 10th century CE.\n\nThe region to the south of present-day Trivandrum – former Ay country – came under the control of the Cholas of Tanjore (under king Raja Raja I) during early 11th century CE. There is a possibility that the Venad chieftains tried to recapture the old Ay region after the raids by Rajaraja I. Chola prince Rajadhiraja claims to have \"confined the undaunted king of Venadu [back] to the Chera kingdom [from the Ay country]...and liberated the [Ay] king of Kupaka\" (this event is dated c. 1018-19 CE). Eventually the Chera-Perumal kingdom also submitted to the Chola rule (early 11th century CE).\n\nCherar ruler Rama Kulasekhara, a contemporary of Chola Kulothunga (1070 -1120 CE), is seen organising the defence against the Cholas at Kollam in early 12th century CE.\n\nThe prosecution of the Pandya-Chola wars necessitated long residence of Chera/Perumal king of Kodungallur Rama Kulasekhara at Kollam. There is a tradition that Vira Kerala, a ruler of Kollam in early 12th century, was a son of the last Chera king. \nAfter the dissolution of the Chera/Perumal kingdom (c. 12th century), Venad survived, and emerged as a powerful principality in southern India, as result of the wars of conquest and well as the Indian Ocean spice trade. Venad, now known as the kingdom of the Cheras or the Kulasekharas, was intermittently subject to the Pandyas during this period. Possibly with the decline of Chola power after Kulothunga, Venad Cheras gradually extended their control over the present Kanyakumari district. In the early 14th century, \"Sangramadhira\" Ravi Varma carried out military raids to northern edges of south India (1312–1316). His inscriptions can be found as north as Poonamallee, a suburb of Chennai.\n\nIn Venad royal family, like most of other royal houses in Kerala, law of succession followed was based on matrilineal inheritance. The eldest son of the sister of the ruling king, not his own son, had the legal right to ascend the throne after the death of the king.\n\nAditya Varma (1376–83) seems to have resisted some \"Muslim invaders\" on the borders of Venad. His successor Chera Udaya Marthanda Varma (1383–1444) is credited for the extent of the rule of Venad into interior Tirunelveli region. Vira Udaya Marthanda Varma (1516–1535) acknowledged the supremacy of the Vijayanagara rulers. Minor battles with Vijayanagara forces in the subsequent period are also recorded.\n\nWell into the modern period, Venad remained one of the chief monarchies of Kerala, along with Kingdoms of Kannur (Kolathunadu), Kozhikode (Zamorin) and Kochi (Perumpadappu). Padmanabhaswamy Temple in Trivandrum was the major temple in the region. In the 17th century, the rulers of Venad paid an annual tribute to the Nayaks of Madurai. By this time, the old state of Venad was divided into several autonomous collateral branches such as Trippappoor, Elayadathu, (Kottarakara), Desinganad (Kallada, Kollam), and Peraka Thavazhi (Nedumangad).\n\nDuring the \"regency\" of Umayamma (1677–1864), southern Venad was famously overrun by a Muslim adventurer. English East India Company established a factory at Vizhinjam in 1664 and a fort was built at Ajengo in 1695. Around 150 Company men from the Anjengo Factory, proceeding for an audience with the queen-mother, were lynched by a mob in \"the Attingal Outbreak\" of 1721. Ravi Varma, ruling from 1721 to 1729, entered into formal agreements with the Company and the Nayaks of Madurai. The primary objective of the submission was to strengthen the position of the king against the regional nobles (such as \"the Ettuvittil Pillamar\") and other \"hostile elements\" in Venad.\n\nMarthanda Varma (1729–1758), of the Trippappoor, is often hailed by historians as \"the Maker of Travancore\". Marthanda Varma – at the end of whose rule Travancore was one of the first modern states of south India – is usually credited with the following \"achievements\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102316", "title": "In re", "text": "In re\n\nIn re, Latin for \"in the matter [of]\", is a term with several different, but related meanings.\n\nIn jurisprudence, \"in re\" is used to indicate that a judicial proceeding may not have formally designated adverse parties or is otherwise uncontested. The term is commonly used in case citations of probate and bankruptcy proceedings, such as the General Motors Chapter 11 reorganization. It is sometimes used for consolidated cases, as with \"In re Marriage Cases\". It was adopted by certain U.S. states like California when they adopted no-fault divorce to reflect the fact that the modern proceeding for dissolution of marriage was being taken out of the adversarial system. It is also used in juvenile courts, as, for instance, \"In re Gault\". The \"Bluebook\" describes \"In re\" as a \"procedural phrase\", and requires using it to abbreviate \"in the matter of\", \"petition of\", \"application of\", and similar expressions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102350", "title": "Henk Vredeling", "text": "Henk Vredeling\n\nHendrikus \"Henk\" Vredeling (20 November 1924 – 27 October 2007) was a Dutch politician of the Labour Party (PvdA).\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2102353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102353", "title": "Asspen", "text": "Asspen\n\n\"Asspen\" is the second episode of the sixth season and the 82nd overall episode of the American animated television series \"South Park\". It first aired on Comedy Central in the United States on March 13, 2002. In the episode, the boys go on vacation at Aspen, Colorado, where Stan is repeatedly tormented by an older skier named Tad. Meanwhile, the boys' parents become stuck at a meeting as two salesmen attempt to coax them into purchasing timeshare property.\n\nThe episode was written and directed by series co-creator Trey Parker. The episode serves as a parody of underdog sports films from the 1980s, while the subplot was conceived while Parker and co-creator Matt Stone were repeatedly annoyed by timeshare salesmen while in Whistler, British Columbia. \"Asspen\" has received very positive reviews, with critics listing it as among the best episodes of the series. It is one of the few episodes to be rated TV-14 in its original airing. Along with the rest of the sixth season, it was released on home video on October 11, 2005.\n\nOn vacation in Aspen, Colorado, the four boys (Stan, Kyle, Cartman, and Butters) are learning to ski when an older and more experienced skier named Tad begins harassing Stan for no reason. Tad demands that Stan race him for \"stealing\" his girlfriend Heather, whom Stan has never even met before. Stan agrees, fully aware that, since he is a complete amateur, Tad will most certainly beat him. He reluctantly races Tad and loses, as he expected. Afterwards, he is approached by a geeky teenage girl who invites him to a dance at the Aspen Youth Center. There, the boys discover that Tad's father plans to bulldoze the Aspen Youth Center. Tad then appears on stage to sing an off-key song where he repeats \"Stan Darsh\" over and over until Stan snaps and asks what he wants. Tad demands another race, this time on a much larger hill: the K-13 (a reference to \"Better Off Dead\"). It is agreed that if Stan wins, Tad's father will not bulldoze the youth center. It is at this point an epic montage of training occurs with the geeky girl and the boys' instructor from earlier. The song goes so far as to mock the concept of a montage–even the lyrics say: \"We're gonna need a montage\". As the race begins, Tad races quickly down the hill, stopping to place traps in order to slow Stan down. Still inexperienced, Stan moves so slowly that the traps do not even affect him, while the geeky girl Stan met earlier distracts Tad by lifting up her shirt and supposedly exposing her breasts. Tad freezes, while Stan passes him and wins the race. After the race, however, it is revealed that Tad's reaction of shock was actually due to the fact that, instead of breasts, the girl has two mutants growing out of her chest (a reference to the film \"Total Recall\", complete with one of the mutants saying \"Quaid, start the reactor!\").\n\nIn the subplot, the boys' parents are coaxed into attending a 30-minute presentation by two timeshare salesmen. The parents repeatedly refuse and attempt to leave the conference room; however, they are told that the meeting is actually supposed to take place during lunch. They ask to leave during the lunch but are told to turn over their place cards, which reveal a prize of an exclusive ski lift. They board the ski lift, thinking it will provide them quick access to the slopes, but find it takes them straight back to the conference room. The parents attempt to leave the meeting, only to be held at gunpoint by the police and learning that the timeshare organization is in control of the police and other powerful authorities, including the President of the United States. Under duress, the parents reluctantly purchase a timeshare property. They return to the boys, who tell them the ski resort sucks and who are despondent that they all have to return to Aspen in the future due to the parents' purchase of the timeshare property.\n\n\"Asspen\" was written by series co-creator Trey Parker, who also directed the episode. The episode parodies several movies of the 1980s and 1990s, including \"Hot Dog... The Movie\", \"Ski School\", \"Ski Patrol\", \"Aspen Extreme\", \"Total Recall\", \"Pet Sematary\" and \"Better off Dead\". Parker called the episode \"really easy to write,\" as all he had to do was write a version of the underdog sports films the episode was parodying. The episode contains a subplot involving the boys' parents attempting to avoid purchasing a timeshare from two men. While at a story retreat in Whistler, British Columbia, Parker and Stone were repeatedly \"harassed\" by timeshare salesmen the entire time. This served as the inspiration for the story.\n\nAs Stan trains to become a better skier, a song called \"Montage\", similar to the Giorgio Moroder and Paul Engemann \"Scarface\" montage song \"Push It to the Limit,\" is performed by Trey Parker and Matt Stone's band DVDA. The song was later reworked and used by Parker and Stone in \"\" (2004). The episode also features a cover of the song \"Take On Me\" by Norwegian synthpop band A-ha. The rights to use the song were cleared the morning the episode was set to air.\n\nSince its original airing \"Asspen\" has received acclaim from critics. Brandon Stroud, writing for \"Uproxx\", praised \"Asspen\", saying that \"I could probably write a book that tries to explain why this is the quintessential South Park episode.\" Kevin Fitzpatrick, writing for UGO Network, stated that the 1980s sports movies were \"perfectly skewered\" and that \"it'd take a full montage to explain all the things we love about this episode.\"\n\nStephen Higham of \"WhatCulture.com\" ranked \"Asspen\" on a list of the 15 greatest \"South Park\" episodes, saying that \"whilst the subplot about the kids’ parents getting barraged with inescapable offers by the condo salesmen does get a little repetitive, there are enough jokes in there to keep you entertained. Trey Parker has a real talent for capturing the odd little quirks of human communication and amplifying them to absurd levels of noticeability until they take over all other aspects of that voice. His talent is especially noteworthy in his performance of these two salesmen.\" He praised the main plot, saying that \"it is twenty minutes of darn good satire\" and called the character of Tad \"just genius.\"\n\n\"Asspen\", along with the sixteen other episodes from \"South Park: the Complete Sixth Season\", were released on a three-disc DVD set in the United States on October 11, 2005. The sets included brief audio commentaries by Parker and Stone for each episode. IGN gave the season a rating of 9/10.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102354", "title": "Code point", "text": "Code point\n\nIn character encoding terminology, a code point or code position is any of the numerical values that make up the \"code space\". Many code points represent single characters but they can also have other meanings, such as for formatting.\n\nFor example, the character encoding scheme ASCII comprises 128 code points in the range 0 to 7F, Extended ASCII comprises 256 code points in the range 0 to FF, and Unicode comprises code points in the range 0 to 10FFFF. The Unicode code space is divided into seventeen planes (the basic multilingual plane, and 16 supplementary planes), each with (= 2) code points. Thus the total size of the Unicode code space is 17 ×  = .\n\nThe notion of a code point is used for abstraction, to distinguish both:\n\nThis is because one may wish to make these distinctions to:\n\nFor Unicode, the particular sequence of bits is called a \"code unit\" – for the UCS-4 encoding, any code point is encoded as 4-byte (octet) binary numbers, while in the UTF-8 encoding, different code points are encoded as sequences from one to four bytes long, forming a self-synchronizing code. See comparison of Unicode encodings for details.\nCode points are normally assigned to abstract characters. An \"abstract\" character is not a graphical glyph but a unit of textual data. However, code points may also be left reserved for future assignment (most of the Unicode code space is unassigned), or given other designated functions.\n\nThe distinction between a code point and the corresponding abstract character is not pronounced in Unicode, but is evident for many other encoding schemes, where numerous code pages may exist for a single code space.\n\nThe concept of a code point is part of Unicode's solution to a difficult conundrum faced by character encoding developers in the 1980s. If they added more bits per character to accommodate larger character sets, that design decision would also constitute an unacceptable waste of then-scarce computing resources for Latin script users (who constituted the vast majority of computer users at the time), since those extra bits would always be zeroed out for such users. The code point avoids this problem by breaking the old idea of a direct one-to-one correspondence between characters and particular sequences of bits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102365", "title": "Crusaders Rugby League", "text": "Crusaders Rugby League\n\nCrusaders Rugby League () was a professional rugby league club based in Bridgend and later in Wrexham, Wales. They played for six seasons in the Rugby Football League competitions, including three years in the Super League from 2009 to 2011.\n\nFounded as Celtic Crusaders in 2005 initially based in Bridgend, the club played in National League Two from 2006–07 and in National League One in 2008. In 2009 they were awarded a Super League licence, and in 2010 they moved from Bridgend to Wrexham in North Wales, and dropped \"Celtic\" from their name. After three years in the Super League, on 26 July 2011 the club announced they were withdrawing their application to remain in the league for the 2012–15 seasons. They disbanded after the 2011 season, and were succeeded by a new club, North Wales Crusaders, in Championship 1 in 2012. They played their home matches at Brewery Field then the Racecourse Ground.\n\nThe Crusaders won the National League Two championship in 2007. Their last coach was Wales national team coach Iestyn Harris. Their home strip was red and white and the away strip was black and yellow.\n\nIn the summer of 2003, the WRU voted to reduce the top tier of Welsh professional rugby union from nine clubs into five regions. The Celtic Warriors officially represented the Mid-Glamorgan Valleys area, which in practice meant that they were a combination of Pontypridd RFC and Bridgend RFC.\nFinancial problems at Pontypridd RFC led to the sale of their half of the Warriors to Bridgend RFC owner Leighton Samuel, which he gave to the WRU. He then later sold his half to the WRU who in Summer 2004 decided to liquidate the club.\n\nAfter the success of clubs in the Welsh Premier division of the Rugby League Conference, a South Wales team was mooted to join a professional league in March 2005, as the National League Two division was due to be restructured and expanded for the 2006 season. The demise of the Celtic Warriors team and backing by businessman Leighton Samuel gave an opportunity for a team to be based in Bridgend, however Coventry Bears and Bramley Buffaloes, who reached the National League Three Grand Final, also wanted a place in National League Two. The initial plan to re-use the 'Celtic Warriors' name was abandoned in favour of 'Celtic Crusaders' which had been considered by the rugby union franchise. They were to play their home games at Brewery Field and games were planned to be held at Sardis Road as well. The Rugby Football League admitted the Celtic Crusaders club; now with badge, ground, website and shareholders; on 22 June 2005 during a meeting in Salford. On 3 July, Super League teams London Broncos and Hull FC fought out a 24-all draw at the Brewery Field, drumming up 3775 fans to watch the game as part of London's on the road home games whilst their ground was being redeveloped.\n\nThe rest of 2005 was spent preparing for the upcoming season. On 13 November, Kevin Ellis was appointed Assistant Coach and a few days later on 16 November Anthony Seibold was appointed Fitness and Conditioning Coach. By the end of November coach John Dixon had completed his squad, drawn heavily from Bridgend Blue Bulls and Aberavon Fighting Irish clubs.\n\nThe club were due to play their first match against Super League giants St. Helens, but due to the team being in the World Club Challenge competition, a Harlequins RL Academy side provided the opposition for the club's inaugural match. The friendly ended in a 22–22 draw. Originally the club were to play their first competitive match at home, but their first three Northern Rail Cup games during February; against Hemel Stags, St Albans Centurions and London Skolars respectively; were switched as away games at the request from Hemel. The game against Hemel was won convincingly by the Crusaders 50–10 with Tony Duggan being the first player to score a try for the Welsh franchise (with Ryan O'Kelly being the first Welshman to score a try), and Jace Van Dijk was rewarded with the first Man of the Match award. Crusaders Academy played their first match against London Harlequins Academy on 29 January.\n\nIn the group stages of the Northern Rail Cup the Celtic Crusaders won all of their six games, scoring 374 points and conceding just 44. With an average of 62 points scored per match the Crusaders set the record for most points scored in a Northern Rail Cup group, beating the Salford City Reds' 58-points per game in 2003. Included in this winning run was the club's first home match, against London Skolars, where 1,021 people were in attendance to see the 78–14 victory.\n\nCrusaders also entered into the Challenge Cup and were drawn against Russian team Moscow Locomotive for Round 3 of the competition. They were reigning Russian Championship and Russian Cup champions and it was one of the few times that in the cup competitions long history that two non-English sides had been drawn together. However, in a match where the pitch was covered in snow the Welsh team raced into a 30–4 lead at half-time, and the match eventually finished 64–4. Round 4 provided much tougher opponents as the Crusaders were handed an away tie with National League One side Rochdale Hornets. Just three weeks after the Moscow match, on 1 April the team suffered their first ever defeat as Hornets won 32–8 and Crusaders were thus eliminated from the 2006 Challenge Cup. Rochdale Hornets again provided the opposition in the next round of the Northern Rail Cup and again they won, this time the match finished 6–34 at the Brewery Field.\n\nFor their first season in the National League Two competition the side performed very well finishing third out of twelve teams, earning 29 points. The team scored 730 points and conceded 387. Workington Town were the opposition for the first match and surprisingly Crusaders won 18–50, ending Workington's 23-month unbeaten home record. London Skolars were brushed away with a 70–0 victory in front of 634 fans in Crusaders' first home match of the league campaign, with centre Carl De Chenu scoring four tries. The club had decided prior to the season to take two home fixtures to other parts of South Wales, the first of which was a 36–18 win over Hunslet watched by 415 people at Talbot Athletic Ground in Aberavon. In early June, Keighley went down 58–18 at Old Parish in Maesteg in the second on the road match. It was in their third week that Crusaders lost only their second match of 2006, narrowly being beaten 22–20 in a Monday night match against the Sheffield Eagles. The club were involved in one draw during the whole season, a 30–30 tie away to Keighley in May. After several key matches, in the last game of the campaign the Celtic Crusaders secured a vital 14–11 win against Featherstone Rovers on 10 September meaning they finished third overall on points difference, whilst Featherstone who also earned 29 points finished fourth. This set up a play-off match against second-placed team; the Sheffield Eagles, which was lost 26–16 at the Don Valley Stadium. A final elimination match against Swinton proved to be the team's last match of the season as the Lions won 26–27 after 91 seconds of Golden Point extra time. Sheffield beat Swinton in the final meaning them and Dewsbury Rams, who finished top of the table, were promoted.\n\nThroughout the year the club were boosted by player and local achievements. At various times in the year Celtic Crusaders players made it into the National League Two Team of the Month, whilst full-back Tony Duggan and stand-off Jace Van Dijk were both nominated for National League Two Player of the Year, with the latter eventually picking up the honour in October. Tony Duggan was later confirmed as the top try-scorer from all three British leagues for 2006. Hooker Lloyd O'Connor was picked for the Great Britain Students side that toured Australia. whilst a further six players made it into the Wales national team that faced Scotland. During June coach Dixon signed three Welsh internationals, Gareth Dean from Carcassonne, Aled James from the Sheffield Eagles and Gareth Price from the Hull Kingston Rovers. At the end of the season Welsh international Anthony Blackwood was signed from Halifax. In May, Brynteg High School in Bridgend reached the Powergen Champions School Final for the second year in a row after beating a Wigan school, but lost the final.\n\nSome changes at the club also occurred during the year. On 8 June chief executive Chris O'Callaghan resigned after 13 months in the job, during which he was highly important in forming the club and getting them into the professional leagues. At the end of the season influential first ever captain Michael Ryan returned to his native Australia for personal reasons.\n\nThe season was crucial for the Crusaders, as to fulfill their aim of applying for a Super League licence for the 2009 season, the team would have to be playing in the National League One in 2008, and thus had to be promoted this season. Leighton Samuel brought in his solicitor, David Thompson, as chief executive of the club to oversee the application for Super League. In January both Jace Van Dijk and John Dixon finished second in the National League Two Player of the Year and National League Two Coach of the Year categories respectively at the TotalRL Fan Awards. Just before the start of the season it was announced that Welsh former player Jonathan Davies had been appointed Honorary President of the club, and that he would be attending matches throughout the year. The club also announced that they were moving their training ground to the RAF's St Athan base, beating off competition from Cardiff City who also wanted to use the facilities; and that Frenchman Thibault Giroud had been appointed as new fitness coach.\n\nLike last year, Celtic Crusaders' first match of the new season was a Northern Rail Cup game. This year they were drawn in a group with two strong National League One clubs, Widnes and Leigh, and with London Skolars. Widnes came to a snow-hit Brewery Field on 9 February and won 6–56. It was the first ever match played under the new points system for the National Leagues and Northern Rail Cup where teams would gain 3 points for a win, 2 for a draw and 1 for a defeat by less than 12 points. Crusaders earned two good victories against London Skolars, but it was the match in between these two that caused the most surprise. In the shock of the round Crusaders went to Leigh and won 22–26 in front of a crowd of 1,637, despite being 18–4 down at half-time. In the return fixture Leigh were again narrowly defeated, this time the match finishing 22–14. Despite another defeat against Widnes, Crusaders had qualified for the next round of the cup. On 21 April a Crusaders squad with 11 Welshmen in their ranks defeated Hunslet 14–28 to again qualify for the next round. However the quarter-finals is as far as the team got, losing 30–18 away to another strong National League One side in Halifax.\n\nThe squad's second match of the season (after Widnes) was not a Northern Rail Cup game though, but a match against the 2006 NRL champions Brisbane Broncos. Arguably the biggest rugby club in the world, the Broncos used the match to prepare for their World Club Challenge meeting with St Helens. This Bulmers Original Cider Challenge match attracted a lot of attention from the South Wales media and a record crowd of 2,041 came to see Crusaders lose 6–32 with a very credible performance. Grant Epton got Crusaders' sole try on the night.\n\nEastmoor Dragons were drawn against Crusaders in Round 3 of the Challenge Cup. The amateur team were beaten 50–10 at Brewery Field despite Crusaders being reduced to eleven players after Geraint Davies and Terry Martin were both sent out after 65 minutes. Just like last year Crusaders were drawn against Rochdale Hornets and for the third time were knocked out of a cup competition by them, this time losing 20–16 at Spotland.\n\nIn the second year in the National League Two competition, Crusaders finished first with 60 points and were promoted. The campaign got off to a good start, an 18–42 away win against London Skolars on the Good Friday was backed up by a 68–0 win against Blackpool in front of an Easter Monday crowd of 2,805. In late April the club broke their margin of victory and points scored in one match records due to an 82–4 win over Swinton. The points scored in one match record was later broken again in the season after an 84–10 thrashing of Hunslet on 11 August. The club suffered just one defeat at home all season against Oldham on 4 May. It was the first ever National League Two match to be shown live on Sky Sports, and was also broadcast live on BBC Radio Wales; celebrating 100 years of rugby league in Wales as Oldham were the first visitors to the Principality back in September 1907 when they recorded a 25–6 win over Merthyr Tydfil. A club record attendance of 3441 watched Crusaders cruised into a 22–4 half-time lead, before eventually losing the match 26–34. The away match against Keighley was honoured in the same historical way as on the same day as the Merthyr/Oldham match in September 1907, Ebbw Vale made the twelve-hour train trip to Keighley to play their first ever rugby league match. League leaders Featherstone Rovers were beaten 36–28 at home and then on 9 June Crusaders beat another title-contending team in Barrow 26–14 in front of S4C as the match was broadcast live across Wales. It was the first rugby league match to ever be broadcast in Welsh. A week later the club suffered their last defeat of the campaign, 23–16 by Hunslet, before putting together a run of twelve consecutive victories to win the league. The title was secured just before the last match against Gateshead, as third placed Barrow beat second placed Featherstone Rovers 30–4. Over 100 Crusaders fan made the trip up to Gateshead to see the Crusaders lift the trophy.\n\nProgress was made off the pitch too. David Thompson announced that he had negotiated a deal between the Crusaders, Sky TV, the RFL, and S4C whereby Sky would surrender its rugby league exclusivity allowing S4C to televise live Crusader games. S4C commissioned Y Clwb Rygbi 13 programme in June, firstly covering the Crusaders versus Barrow match live and then continuing to broadcast nine matches overall in 2007 and 2008. In August the foundations were laid for an Academy side for the 2008 season with the best players from the Welsh Conference league being picked for the team. Housebuilder Redrow Homes renewed their shirt sponsorship deal whilst a new branding of the club's logo, badge and jersey was announced on 3 December promoting a more progressive and modern image. After achieving promotion the team were nominated for the BBC Wales Sports Team of the Year award, but lost out to the New Saints. After leaving for Queensland at the end of the 2006 season, former coach Anthony Seibold returned to the club as Assistant Coach, operating alongside Kevin Ellis.\nDespite the fact that the licensing process would determine which clubs would enter the newly expanded Super League, the Crusaders were still eager to make their mark in their new division and win the league title. A new team called the Crusaders Colts were set up to play in the Conference National division and provide a route for young Welsh players to get into the main Crusaders team. They were coached by Dan Clements and eventually came second in the league table, winning 15 out of 18 matches and beating Bramley Buffaloes 26–4 in the Grand Final. The club welcomed the news in February that the BBC were going to show their highlights programme \"The Super League Show\" across Wales throughout the forthcoming season.\n\nAfter a 28–6 pre-season friendly win against Harlequins RL, the Crusaders played their first match against the Sheffield Eagles and won 12–22. In a group which also featured Doncaster and London Skolars, the Crusaders finished top of the league, winning four out of five games, with a 14–18 loss against London being their only defeat. The home game against Doncaster was due to be played on 15 March but was cancelled due to waterlogged pitch and after some consideration the Rugby Football League announced that the game was not be replayed because whatever the result it would not change the league table and thus effect any qualifying issues. The Crusaders also made it through to the Challenge Cup fourth round again, being drawn against Moscow Locomotive in a repeat fixture of the third round from 2006. This time the Russians were beaten 58–10, despite the match being 10–10 at one point.\n\nThe National League One campaign got off to a great start with 14–12 victory over Dewsbury in front of a crowd of 1,618. However, in their second match a strong Sheffield Eagles team finished 25–6 winners at the Don Valley Stadium, breaking the Crusaders record of not having lost an away match since June 2007. The team bounced back with a 26–18 win over Halifax, who were at the time top of the league table, but again the team were unable to string together two wins together as a trip to Whitehaven ended in a 44–16 defeat. Halifax again provided the opposition in the first stage of the knockout rounds of the Championship Cup, after the Crusaders qualification from the group stages. The Crusaders started the match well with a try from Anthony Blackwood and controlled much of the game at the Shay. Two late tries by Halifax were not enough as the Crusaders progressed to the quarter final and a match against Widnes. In what was expected to be a fiercely competitive and close match, the Championship Cup holders were left shocked as the Crusaders ran riot resulting in a 50–18 final scoreline with seven different players all going over for tries. The semi-final was played on 14 June against the Salford City Reds travelling down to Brewery Field for the first time after being relegated from Super League the previous year. The Salford City Reds scored the first try and after 40 minutes had earned a 10–18 lead, which was quickly extended to 10–24 after the break. Two tries from the Crusaders were not enough as the Salford City Reds scored two tries in the final two minutes to comfortably win 20–36 and secure a place in the final against Doncaster. A good Championship Cup run could not be matched in the Challenge Cup as the club were drawn against Super League giants Leeds for the fourth round. The World Club Challenge champions were simply too strong for the Welshman with the match finishing a commendable 38–16 with Anthony Blackwood getting two tries and Mark Dalle Cort getting one in what was a solid performance.\n\nIn the league though Crusaders built on their impressive start notching up six wins in seven games in the months of May and June. This included a narrow 14–16 victory away at Widnes, a 56–28 win over Batley and a crucial win over Featherstone Rovers on 2 May. A club record crowd of 6,152, including top Rugby League Football officials, watched Crusaders earn their fourth win in a row against Rovers as Jordan James, Anthony Blackwood, Damien Quinn and Tony Duggan scored tries to seal a 28–18 win. The only defeat in that period came against the Salford City Reds who snatched a 24–22 win at the Willows, Salford. However things turned bad for the Welshmen as all three of their matches in July ended in defeat. Featherstone avenged their Brewery Field defeat as they won 42–30 at Post Office Road, Whitehaven became the only club to do the double over the Crusaders during the season as the match at Brewery Field ended 22–26, and the Crusaders were also on the wrong end of a 30–22 scoreline against Batley, who were eventually to be relegated. The last four matches, all played in August, were critical for the Crusaders chances of being in the Grand Final, and stringing four wins together against the Sheffield Eagles, the Leigh Centurions, Halifax and the Salford City Reds earned the team second place in the league and a great chance to do just that. Crusaders were matched in the qualifying play-off against first placed Salford City Reds, who had secured their superior league position in a 10–20 victory over the team in the last match of the regular season. Crusaders therefore went into the match underdogs but came out storming with eight tries resulting in an 18–44 win and a place in the Grand Final at the Halliwell Jones Stadium in Warrington. Having lost the qualifying play-off match the Salford City Reds did not make the same mistake twice in the elimination play-off and once again would be Crusaders opponents for the fifth and final time this season. In the match, the Salford City Reds scored the first two tries, before Anthony Blackwood narrowed their lead as the team went into half-time losing 6–10. A resurgence occurred though as Crusaders scored three tries in the second half, but a Salford City Reds try and a late goal pushed the match into extra-time. By this time the Crusaders had run out of steam and the Salford City Reds scored three tries over the extra-time period to win the match 18–36.\n\nOn 22 July the Rugby League Football granted the Celtic Crusaders a three-year licence from 2009 allowing the team to compete in Super League Europe, in what was the biggest event for the club since inception. Joining the Crusaders were the Salford City Reds and the original twelve teams of Super League which expanded the league to 14 teams. Controversially Widnes, Leigh, Halifax, Toulouse and Featherstone Rovers were the clubs who were not awarded a licence. The Crusaders were awarded a 'C' grade licence after varying factors such as stadium, finance, marketing, location, player strength and junior production were taken into account. With this result the club became only the third non-English side to participate in the league and the first side from Wales. For the rest of the season the club prepared for their top-flight debut, signing a new sponsorship deal with Brains Beer, and in November the team embarked a three-week training camp in Queensland. However it wasn't just the licence that propelled the Crusaders forward in 2008, the Super League trophy was brought to Bridgend and Cardiff in April with fans getting the chance to see it at shopping centres and schools, rugby league was introduced to Pembrokeshire for the first time, and just like in previous seasons various Crusaders players picked up individual awards and honours.\n\nThe first season of Super League for the team was bitterly disappointing, as after three years of strong performances the Crusaders regularly struggled against the best teams in the country. Adding to the disappointment was the announcement by David Thompson, who had led the successful Super League application, that he was stepping down as chief executive to return to his legal career. Mike Turner, the club's Marketing Manager, was promoted to the position on a temporary basis and was later confirmed as a permanent appointment. and discontent as heavy rain forced Harlequins to cancel their match against Celtic Crusaders in what was due to be the club's only friendly match.\nUnofficially Super League was welcomed into Wales in January as Richard Lewis, the Rugby League Football Executive chairman, attended the Welsh Assembly's inaugural rugby league dinner at the Millennium Stadium. On the field the squad was bolstered by news that eight players had been granted visas just a week before the club's top-flight début as National League One Grand Finalists Tony Duggan, Josh Hannay, Mark Dalle Cort, Damien Quinn, Jace Van Dijk, Darren Mapp and new signings Australian Ryan O'Hara and Papua New Guinean Jason Chan flew to Wales.\nAn early February start kicked off the new Super League season with the Crusaders against reigning champions Leeds Rhinos in freezing conditions at Headingley. The Rhinos scored four tries early on, before Luke Dyer scored the new team's first-ever try in Super League, but this could not be built upon as the match finished 28–6. A loss at the Salford City Reds a week later was followed by the opening home game at Bridgend versus Hull. A strong 5,200 crowd cheered their team into a 10–0 lead but Hull recovered, finishing with a 20–28 victory and leaving Crusaders with a three-game losing streak. The next match against St Helens provided a record 6,351 crowd but also went into the Super League record books as the lowest scoring match in its fourteen-year history as the Saints scraped through with a 0–4 scoring just the one try. Getting further into March, and then into April the Crusaders still found themselves searching for that illusive first win. A 27–22 away defeat by the Warrington Wolves caused the team to slump from 13th back down to 14th, the position in the table where they would stay for the rest of the season. It came as a surprise then that it was at Odsal, home of the Bradford Bulls, where the Crusaders finally got up and running with a 24–30 win. The team did well in establishing a 6–20 after 50 minutes, but the Bulls surged forward causing the Welshmen to cling onto a narrow 24–26 lead with two minutes to go before a second Luke Dyer secured the result. Unfortunately, the club were unable to capitalise on this win, as the Catalans Dragons proved too strong in the Crusaders first ever match with French opposition. In fact the Bradford match was one of the few high points in the season, a stark contrast to the previous three season. But in early June an injury-stricken side beat Wigan Warriors 22–16 at the Brewery Field to record a second win of the campaign. Although the scores were 16–16 late into the match, Peter Lupton drove into the corner to finish a memorable match in the club's history. A further two points were earned in July as four different try scorers helped the Crusaders to a 25–12 victory against the Salford City Reds. Before this, the team had largely been quite competitive despite the run of defeats, but the wheels came off as the side suffered a number of large defeats such as 34–0 against play-off challengers Catalans Dragons, 46–12 against Wakefield Trinity Wildcats and a 0–68 thrashing against Leeds Rhinos in front of a Newport crowd of 5,597. The latter match thus goes down as the worst defeat in the club's history as eight different players scored 13 tries for Leeds. Despite getting just six points in the season this wasn't a record, as Workington Town in SLI, Huddersfield Giants in SLIII, Halifax in SLVIII and Leigh Centurions in SLX all ended up with less than six points.\n\nOn 9 July the club received word that it was subject to investigations by the UK Border Agency concerning problems over players visas. A statement released by the club announced that they were fully co-operating and that the investigation wasn't just concerning the recent season, but went back over a number of years. Despite all this coach John Dixon said that none of this was having any effect on players performances. However, on 18 August, a few days before the team would face Leeds Rhinos, it was announced that the club had violated visa regulations and six Australian players were asked to leave the country, with the club soon after terminating their contracts. Jace Van Dijk, Tony Duggan and Damien Quinn, who all joined the club in 2006, as well as Darren Mapp, Mark Dalle Cort, Josh Hannay who all joined the club in 2007, were banned from entering the country for 10 years. The Rugby Football League quickly demanded an explanation from the club, in an event that naturally landed a lot of bad publicity onto the club and the league, as the club were fined £60,000. This was not the only event that stained the club's inaugural Super League season, as it was widely reported that the club were under financial difficulties. At the start of the season owner Leighton Samuels predicted a massive future for the club and that this future was secure. A little later in the season he again clarified his commitment to the club insisting that there should be no fears over the club's financial position, with Super League bosses backing these reassurances, and Anthony Seibold saying that the club will not face extinction. The club then considered a move to Newport's Rodney Parade in a bid to attract more fans and to gain extra licence points as the stadium was much more developed then Brewery Field, the latter of which Leighton Samuels no longer owned after selling the ground. Despite claims that he was helping the club prepare for the 2010 season, Leighton Samuels decided to cut his losses sometime in December 2009 and withdrew his support for the club after three years. Coach John Dixon officially left the club on 14 September after the club's last match of the season against Castleford Tigers stating that he was disappointed to be leaving after three years at the helm but respected the chairman's decision. This was amongst background rumours that Brian Noble was to be appointed to replace him. On 14 October the rumours were proved to be true as Brian Noble became the second-ever head coach of the club, with former Welsh international Iestyn Harris and former Great Britain assistant Jon Sharp being given the jobs of assistant coaches. Then in early November the club announced that it would be dropping the \"Celtic\" from the name to sever ties with the old Celtic Warriors rugby union team, and that the club was now to be called \"Crusaders Rugby League\". Alongside this a new logo was announced featuring the Prince of Wales feathers. Finally on 15 December the saga was finished as the club announced that their new home would become the Racecourse Ground in Wrexham. After selling his share in the club to Geoff Moss of Wrexham FC, Leighton Samuels stated that a pot of money was needed if the Crusaders were to survive in Wales, and that the Rugby Football League were not visionaries and did not support the club enough financially. However the RFL, alongside Geoff Moss and Wrexham FC chief executive Paul Retout were delighted with the decision. As was Brian Noble who could finally get down to signing new players for the season, as he had been unable to sign anyone in his first two months in charge due to the complications of where the team would be based.\n\nThe club were keen to move on after the previous month's fiasco insisting they would be competitive for the new season which would start with a home tie against Leeds. New players were brought into the squad such as Michael Witt, Rocky Trimarchi, and Gareth Raynor. However, the squad was also bolstered with new young Welsh players like Elliot Kear, Lewis Mills and Lloyd White. Crusaders reached the Super League play-offs; going out in the first round at Huddersfield Giants.\n\nOn 12 November 2010, the Crusaders were placed into administration due to \"inherited debt\".\n\nThe club suffered a six-point deduction for going into administration at the end of the previous season.\n\nIn 2011 the Crusaders initially applied to continue their Super League licence for the 2012–15 period, but on 26 July 2011, they announced they had withdrawn their application. The club's owners, Geoff Moss and Ian Roberts pulled out stating that they were not able to fund the side anymore, which eventually led to the club being wound up in September. Attendances were down on the 2010 season. Crusaders bowed out of Super League with a 42–10 defeat at Wigan Warriors.\n\nCrusaders were offered a position in the Co-operative Championship 1 for the 2012 season by the RFL with their request to join at Co-operative Championship level having been turned down; a rival bid from Wrexham-based Glyndwr Chargers was withdrawn.\n\nThe club's colours were black and gold, inspired by the Flag of St David. The blue and white colours of the change strip were the same as the club colours of Bridgend RFC. For the 2009 season, the club used a red and white away strip, colours associated with Welsh national teams.\n\nThe club's first badge was used between its founding in 2005 and 2008. The badge featured the Flag of Saint David on a shield. A ribbon around the bottom of the shield bore the motto \"Oderint dum metuant\" (Latin for \"Let them hate, so long as they fear\"), which is attributed to the Roman tragic poet, Lucius Accius and later became famous as a saying of the Emperor Caligula. Above and below the shield were the world \"Celtic\" and \"Crusaders Rugby League Club\" respectively.\nThe Crusaders' next badge was adopted following the 2007 season. David Thompson, the then chief executive commented, \"The new badge is modern, progressive and business-friendly. Our Welsh identity is prominent as ever through the gold and black Flag of St David which still provides the colours of our home strip\". The round badge, ringed with \"Celtic Crusaders\", features a warrior holding a sword and a shield with the Flag of St David on it, in the background are two Celtic knots. The badge bears striking similarity to the badge intended for use during the Celtic Warriors' unplayed 2004/05 season.\nThe club have revealed a new logo ready for use in the 2010 season. The badge, inspired by the Prince of Wales's feathers, has three white feathers adorning the centre of a disc with the Flag of St David on. To the left and right of the feathers, the words \"Rugby\" and \"League\" appear on the disc. Beneath the feathers is written \"Crusaders\". The logo was created by Matthew Haselden a designer based in the midlands.\n\nFor four seasons Brewery Field was the home of the Crusaders, from 2006 to 2009. It is located in Bridgend, South Wales and the first match ever played there was against Harlequins Academy on 29 January 2006, however, the first competitive fixture was against London Skolars on 5 March 2006. It is the twelfth largest stadium in Wales, and in 2009 was the smallest stadium in Super League, with a capacity of 8,000. The ground was built in 1920 and is now home to Bridgend Ravens rugby union and Bridgend football clubs. The club played a total of 58 matches at Brewery Field, including the club's first-ever Super League game against Hull. A game against Huddersfield Giants in Super League XIV was the last ever time the team played at Brewery Field on 5 September 2009.\n\nThe Racecourse Ground is located in Wrexham in North Wales and is the official home of the Crusaders and where most matches are played. The club moved to the ground in 2010, in time for the start of the Super League XV season. The first Crusaders match ever played there was against Leeds Rhinos on 29 January 2010, and that match is also the highest attendance for a Crusaders match played in Wrexham. With a capacity of 15,500 it is the largest ground in North Wales, the fifth largest in the whole of Wales, and the seventh-largest in Super League. It was first built in 1807 and first played host to Wrexham's \"Town Purse\" horse race. Crowd trouble stopped the horse racing and in 1872 it became home to Wrexham Football Club with the club now owning the ground. The Wales national rugby league team have played there once against Italy. The ground has four stands: The Mold Road Stand, The Eric Roberts Stand, The Kop and The Yale. Crusaders have played a total of 12 games at The Racecourse.\n\nA total of 18 players have won caps with the Wales national rugby league team whilst playing for the Crusaders. A further two players have been capped by other countries.\n\nHaving been the only top tier rugby league team in Wales the Crusaders have pockets of supporters all around the country, but particularly in the Glamorgan and Wrexham areas where the team had regularly played matches. The club generally attracted 5000 supporters to home matches, and whilst a low away support has been criticised around 1000 fans made the trip up to Yorkshire to see the Crusaders face the Huddersfield Giants in the Super League XV Play-offs. The club had stated that they want to expand their presence into other areas of North Wales other than Wrexham. Television presence in the form of S4C, BBC Sport and more recently Sky Sports has enabled people all over the United Kingdom to watch live matches, whilst regional coverage regularly follows the Crusaders in news bulletins. Newspapers in Wales have supported the Crusaders since formation such as the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, South Wales Evening Post and Y Cymro in the south of the country; and The Leader and The Flintshire Chronicle in the north of the country. The Crusaders Rugby League Supporters Club was formed in 2010 to provide a link between the club and fans, and replaced the old Celtic Crusaders Supporters Club that had branches in Cardiff, Newport, West Wales and Manchester amongst others. The club has also had various groups of supporters form their own rugby league teams such as the Celtic Crusaders Vagabonds who played in the Isle of Man and the Celtic Barbarians based in Wrexham. The club has several notable fans like Welsh rugby union international Gavin Henson, TNA wrestler Rob Terry, Plaid Cymru politician Janet Ryder and Carwyn Jones, the First Minister of Wales. Online the club had their own Facebook page, whilst fans generally used the Crusaders Til I Die or Red Passion forums to talk about the club, the latter of which is a Wrexham FC forum but which had a Crusaders board and large contingent of Crusaders supporters.\n\nLike all other Super League clubs, the Crusaders ran several teams as part of their academy system that operate under the main team and provide a route into it. The Reserve team were formed in 2006 and played friendly matches for two years before eventually being replaced by the Crusaders Colts, as part of a joint-development programme between the club and the Wales Rugby League board. The team played in the Conference National division in 2008, the fourth tier of rugby league, finishing second in the league table and beating Bramley Buffaloes in the Grand Final.\n\nDue to the club's promotion into Super League, the team dropped their Colts name and joined the Super League Reserve League for 2009. In their first match they beat Leeds Rhinos 48–40, but could only achieve two more victories in the season, against Castleford Tigers and Hull KR. All the reserves team's matches for the 2009 season were played at Old Parish in Maesteg. The move to Wrexham in 2010 coincided with the formation of the South Wales Scorpions, for whom many of the reserve side ended up playing and who maintain strong links with the Crusaders.\n\nDespite currently no longer having a reserve side, there are plans for a team to be formed in North Wales in the future. The Crusaders under-18 side were formed for the 2008–2009 Gillette National Youth League Winter season, winning the league in their first season and finishing fifth in their second, whilst still being based in South Wales. In 2009 the club's first under-16 side was set up, and in 2010 an under-15 team was added to this scholarship programme. The Crusaders also have four development squads based in Bridgend, Cardiff/Newport, Merthyr Tydfil and Swansea/Port Talbot that consist of juniors aged 12–16. Crusaders also have a junior team playing in the Gillette National Youth League under the name North Wales Crusaders.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102375", "title": "Neutral zone (gridiron football)", "text": "Neutral zone (gridiron football)\n\nIn gridiron football, the neutral zone is an area in which no member of either team may be, other than the person holding the ball. The neutral zone only exists in dead ball situations (i.e. when play is not ongoing).\n\nIn American football, the neutral zone can be described as the length of the football (11 inches/28 centimeters) from one tip to the other when it is spotted (i.e. placed on a certain spot) on the field prior to the snap of the ball during a scrimmage down. In Canadian football, the neutral zone, formally known in that code as the scrimmage zone, is a full one yard (3 feet or 36 inches) in front of the tip of the ball during a scrimmage down. The snapper (usually the center) is exempt, as he must place his hand on the ball (thus entering the neutral/scrimmage zone) to execute the snap. The one-yard neutral zone is also used in the China Arena Football League and was tested for use in the XFL but eventually rejected.\n\nThe neutral zone is much longer for kickoffs, safety kicks and fair catch kicks, where ten yards separates the kicking team from the receiving team. The kicker and, if used, a holder are allowed to enter this neutral zone. In addition to not being allowed to enter the neutral zone before the kick, the kicking team may not recover their own kick until the ball has traveled beyond the neutral zone or has been touched by an opposing player.\n\nKnowing whether the ball has passed beyond the neutral zone or remained in or behind the neutral zone is important during forward pass plays and during scrimmage kicks. \n\n\nIn accordance to NFL rules, an additional definition of the neutral zone came into effect after a September 12, 2005, fight between the Philadelphia Eagles' Jeremiah Trotter and the Atlanta Falcons' Kevin Mathis that occurred prior to the opening kickoff. A new rule was instituted that each end of the field from the end zone to the 45-yard line is reserved for one team, and that no player other than a kicker may be between the 45-yard lines prior to the game. \n"}
{"id": "2102376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102376", "title": "W. B. Ray High School", "text": "W. B. Ray High School\n\nW. B. Ray High School is a 5A secondary school centrally located in Corpus Christi, Texas, United States and is part of the Corpus Christi Independent School District. The school is named in honor of CCISD school board president, William Benton Ray. W. B. Ray High School opened in 1950. Ray High School is particular noted for its Socratic method, a system based on teacher and student interaction, that promulgates discussion and inquiry-based learning in the classroom.\n\nW. B. Ray High School one of 46 high schools in Texas designated as a World School by the International Baccalaureate Program. W. B. Ray High School is the only high school in CCISD which offers the International Baccalaureate Program and is CCISD's only program for Gifted and Talented students at the High School level, offering higher level academic courses that surpass Honors and AP courses in both rigor and difficulty.\n\nWith a student enrollment of approximately 2,100 students, Ray High School has an ethnic distribution of 62% Hispanic, 32% White, 5% Black, & 1% other (including Native Americans, Pacific Islanders, and Asians). The school's boundary area is varied in socio-economic strata, ranging from extremely affluent multimillion-dollar homes to multi-family complexes.\n\nThe school principal is Roxanne Cuevas.\n\nThe school's motto is \"Fighting Texans\". The mascots are \"Tex\" and \"Mary Lou.\" The school has a long time rivalry with crosstown Roy Miller High School. With the decline of enrollment at Miller, King and Carroll have become increasingly significant rivals, taking the place of Miller. Since 2015, the newly-constructed Veterans Memorial High School has become the most prominent rival school for Ray.\n\nRay's International Baccalaureate program graduated its inaugural class in 2013. Since then, graduates have been accepted for admission at some of the most prestigious academic institutions and programs in the world including Harvard, MIT, Yale, Columbia, Georgetown, NYU, Vanderbilt, Cornell, Brown, Northwestern, Tufts, Washington University in St. Louis, Stanford, Rice, Duke, the American University in Paris, and Dartmouth among others.\n\nRay High School participates in a variety of extracurricular activities. Clubs and organizations are available in academics, service, performing arts, publications, and special interests. Competitive sports for young men and women include basketball, baseball, track, soccer, softball, wrestling, football, cross-country, swimming and diving, golf, volleyball, and tennis. The school's award-winning Academic Decathlon and Mock Trial teams regularly advance to the state level. The Ray Speech and Debate team is a regional powerhouse and a frequent competitor at prominent national contests.\n\n\nThis school has a simple dress code: any color shirt & pants, but can not be showing anything. (stomach, etc.) Assistant Principals and armed police officers guard the main hallways in search of dress code offenders. In 2000, there was a push in the administration (led by Dr. Scott at the time) to ban flip-flops, but student and parent outcry and lack of support from teachers led to this being dropped. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102382", "title": "The Three Faces of Fear", "text": "The Three Faces of Fear\n\nThe Three Faces of Fear was a professional wrestling stable in World Championship Wrestling, from late 1994 to early 1995. Composed of Kevin Sullivan, The Butcher and Avalanche, the group fought against Hulk Hogan.\n\nWhen Hulk Hogan signed with WCW in June 1994, he soon got a huge fan in Dave Sullivan, something which did not sit well with Dave's kayfabe brother Kevin Sullivan, who quickly developed an intense hatred of Hulk Hogan and everything associated with him. Kevin turned on his brother after a tag-team match and beat him up.\n\nAt Clash Of The Champions XXVIII Hulk Hogan was scheduled to defend his newly-won WCW World Heavyweight Championship against Ric Flair. At the top of the show, Hogan was attacked by a man wearing a black mask and bodysuit, who struck him in the knee with a metal pipe (The angle imitated the very well known assault on Olympic Figure Skater Nancy Kerrigan that had happened about six months earlier.) Taken to the hospital, Hogan returned just in time for the main event but hampered by the injury he lost by count out.\n\nThe man under the mask was originally Arn Anderson but he was never supposed to be revealed as the attacker, who was originally supposed to be Curt Hennig.\n\nFrom August through October 1994 Hulk Hogan tried on several occasions to find out who the mystery assailant was but to no avail. At Halloween Havoc, the mysterious attacker appeared again and was now demasked and revealed as Hulk Hogan's long time friend Brutus Beefcake.\n\nBeefcake, who took on the name of \"The Butcher\", revealed that it was Kevin Sullivan's influence that made him turn on his former friend. Shortly afterward, the Butcher and Sullivan were joined\nby another former WWF wrestler, the former Earthquake, now renamed \"Avalanche\", and formed The Three Faces of Fear with the goal of destroying Hulkamania.\n\nOn November 16, 1994, the trio lost to Hogan, Dave Sullivan and Sting at Clash Of The Champions XXIX.\n\nIn December, the Butcher, backed by Kevin Sullivan, challenged Hogan for the WCW World Heavyweight Title at Starrcade 1994. Hogan retained the title by pinning the Butcher.\n\nAfter the match, \"Macho Man\" Randy Savage appeared and initially looking like he had joined The Three Faces of Fear, but then sided with Hogan, setting of a tag team match pitting Hogan and Savage against Sullivan and the Butcher at Clash Of The Champions XXX in January 1995 and resulted in Hogan pinning the Butcher.\n\nThis match was the last confrontation between the group and Hogan, as both set off in different directions. Hogan began feuding with Big Van Vader, who had attacked him after the match, while The Three Faces of Fear disintegrated when Sullivan attacked the Butcher and Avalanche began pursuing a feud with Sting. The name \"Three Faces of Fear\" was quickly phased out.\n\nAccording to storyline, the Butcher fell into amnesia due to the injuries sustained in the attack. The Butcher became known as \"The Man with No Name\" and lost to Kevin Sullivan at Slamboree 1995, after which he disappeared from WCW.\n\nThe members of the group eventually reunited later in 1995, when Kevin Sullivan founded the new Dungeon of Doom stable, which among others also included \"The Shark\" and \"The Zodiac\", the former Avalanche and Butcher respectively. However, no connection to their former gimmicks or to the former group was made. The stable also included Meng and The Barbarian, who formed a tag team called Faces of Fear.\n"}
{"id": "2102388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102388", "title": "Buserelin", "text": "Buserelin\n\nBuserelin, sold under the brand name Suprefact among others, is a medication which is used primarily in the treatment of prostate cancer and endometriosis. It is also used for other indications such as the treatment of premenopausal breast cancer, uterine fibroids, and early puberty, in assisted reproduction for female infertility, and as a part of transgender hormone therapy. In addition, buserelin is used in veterinary medicine. The medication is typically used as a nasal spray three times per day, but is also available for use as a solution or implant for injection into fat.\nSide effects of buserelin are related to sex hormone deprivation and include symptoms of low testosterone levels and low estrogen levels such as hot flashes, sexual dysfunction, vaginal atrophy, and osteoporosis. Buserelin is a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRH agonist) and works by preventing the production of sex hormones by the gonads. It can lower sex hormone levels by about 95% in both sexes. Buserelin is a peptide and an analogue of .\nBuserelin was first patented in 1974 and approved for medical use in 1985. It is not available in the United States, but is marketed widely elsewhere in the world, including in the United Kingdom, Canada, and many other countries. The medication is one of only two medically used GnRH analogues that are available as nasal sprays, the other being nafarelin. Buserelin is available as a generic medication.\n\nBuserelin is approved for the treatment of hormone-responsive cancers including prostate cancer and premenopausal breast cancer, sex hormone-dependent uterine diseases including endometrial hyperplasia, endometriosis, and uterine fibroids, and in assisted reproduction for female infertility. It is also used off-label for the treatment of precocious puberty, as a puberty blocker in transgender children, and as a component of transgender hormone therapy. In ovulation induction, buserelin is used for pituitary suppression as an adjunct to gonadotropin administration. It has also been assessed as a nasal spray for use as a hormonal contraceptive in women, with a 96% anovulation rate.\n\nFor prostate cancer, the dosage of buserelin by subcutaneous injection is 500 μg three times per day (once every 8 hours, 1,500 μg/day total) for one week and then 200 μg once daily thereafter. If buserelin is used as a nasal spray, the dosage for prostate cancer is 800 μg sprayed into the nostrils three times per day (once every 8 hours, 2,400 μg/day total) for one week followed by 400 μg sprayed into the nostrils three times per day (once every 8 hours, 1,200 μg/day total) thereafter. For endometriosis, buserelin is used specifically as a nasal spray and the dosage is the same as that used for prostate cancer. These dosages of buserelin for both subcutaneous injection and nasal spray have been found to decrease testosterone levels to near-castrate levels in men with prostate cancer, although suppression was more complete with subcutaneous injection presumably due to suboptimal absorption with intranasal administration.\n\nBuserelin is available in the form of a 1 mg/mL solution for use as a nasal spray or subcutaneous injection once every 8 hours (three times per day) and as 6.3 mg and 9.45 mg implants for subcutaneous injection once every two and three months, respectively.\n\nContraindications of buserelin include the following:\n\n\nDuring the initial phase of the therapy, before GnRH receptors have been significantly downregulated, testosterone levels are increased. This can lead to transient tumor activation with bone pain (in patients with cancer metastases) and urinary retention. Side effects that occur later during the treatment are mainly due to low sex hormone levels and include reduced libido, erectile dysfunction, hot flashes, vaginal dryness, vaginal atrophy, menorrhagia, osteoporosis, depression, asthenia, emotional lability, headache, dizziness, and application site reactions.\n\nBuserelin appears to be safe in the event of an overdose.\n\nBuserelin is a GnRH agonist, or an agonist of the GnRH receptor. It is a superagonist of the GnRH receptor with potency for induction of luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) secretion of about 20 to 170 times that of GnRH itself. By activating the GnRH receptor in the pituitary gland, buserelin induces the secretion of LH and FSH from the gonadotrophs of the anterior pituitary, which travel to the gonads through the bloodstream and activate gonadal sex hormone production as well as stimulate spermatogenesis in men and induce ovulation in women.\n\nWith chronic administration of buserelin however, the GnRH receptor becomes desensitized and completely stops responding both to buserelin and to endogenous GnRH. This is because GnRH is normally released from the hypothalamus in pulses, which keeps the GnRH receptor sensitive, whereas chronic buserelin administration results in more constant exposure and desensitization of the receptor. The profound desensitization of the GnRH receptor results in a loss of LH and FSH secretion from the anterior pituitary and a consequent shutdown of gonadal sex hormone production, markedly diminished or abolished spermatogenesis in men, and anovulation in women.\n\nIn men, approximately 95% of circulating testosterone is produced by the testes, with the remaining 5% being derived from the adrenal glands. In accordance, GnRH analogues like buserelin can reduce testosterone levels by about 95% in men. Sex hormone levels, including those of estradiol and progesterone, are similarly profoundly suppressed in premenopausal women. The suppression of estradiol levels is 95% and progesterone levels are less than 1 ng/mL (normal range during the luteal phase approximately 10–20 ng/mL); the resulting levels are equivalent to those in postmenopausal women.\n\nBuserelin has been found to suppress testosterone levels in men with prostate cancer from 426 ng/dL to 28 ng/dL (by 93.4%) with 200 μg by subcutaneous injection once per day and from 521 ng/dL to 53 ng/dL (by 89.8%) with 400 μg by nasal spray once every 8 hours (1,200 μg/day total). The difference in suppression may have been due to poor compliance. A few small studies have also assessed the suppression of testosterone levels with buserelin nasal spray twice a day instead of three times a day. One such study found that testosterone levels in men with prostate cancer were suppressed during treatment with buserelin from 332 ng/dL to 215 ng/dL (28.9% lower than controls) with 200 μg by nasal spray twice a day (400 μg/day total), from 840 ng/dL to 182 ng/dL (71.4% lower than controls) with 500 μg by nasal spray twice a day (1,000 μg/day total), and from 598 ng/dL to 126 ng/dL (80.4% lower than controls) with 50 μg by subcutaneous injection once a day.\n\nBuserelin is ineffective via oral administration due to first-pass metabolism in the gastrointestinal tract. Its bioavailability is 2.5 to 3.3% by intranasal administration and 70% by subcutaneous injection. The plasma protein binding of buserelin is approximately 15%. The metabolism of buserelin occurs in the liver, kidneys, and gastrointestinal tract and is mediated by peptidases, specifically pyroglutamyl peptidase and chymotrypsin-like endopeptidase. The elimination half-life of buserelin regardless of route of administration is about 72 to 80 minutes. Buserelin and its metabolites are eliminated in urine and bile, with approximately 50% of buserelin excreted in urine unchanged.\n\nBuserelin is a GnRH analogue, or a synthetic analogue of GnRH. It is a nonapeptide and is also known as [-Ser(tBu),des-Gly-NH]GnRH ethylamide or as -Ser(tBu)EA-GnRH. Buserelin is marketed for medical use in both its free base (buserelin) and acetate salt (buserelin acetate) forms.\n\nBuserelin was first described in 1976 and was introduced for medical use in 1984. Intranasal buserelin was the first GnRH agonist demonstrated to achieve medical castration in humans. This was initially observed via a marked decrease in circulating testosterone levels in a single patient in 1980.\n\n\"Buserelin\" is the generic name of the drug and its and , while \"buserelin acetate\" is its , , and , \"buséréline\" is its , and \"buserelina\" is its . While under development by Hoechst AG, buserelin was also known as \"HOE-766\".\n\nBuserelin is marketed by Sanofi-Aventis primarily under the brand names Suprefact, Suprefact Depot, and Suprecur. It is also available under a number of other brand names including Bigonist, Bucel, Buserecur, Fuset, Metrelef, Profact, Profact Depot, Supremon, and Zerelin. CinnaFact is a generic version of the medication that is produced by CinnaGen. Buserelin is marketed for use in veterinary medicine primarily under the brand name Receptal, but is also available under the brand names Buserol, Busol, Porceptal, and Veterelin.\n\nBuserelin is marketed in the United Kingdom, Ireland, other European countries, Canada, New Zealand, and South Africa, as well as in Latin America, Asia, and elsewhere in the world. It is not available in the United States or Australia.\n\nThe steroidal antiandrogen cyproterone acetate has been studied for blocking the testosterone flare at the start of buserelin therapy in men with prostate cancer. While cyproterone acetate for two weeks eliminates the biological and biochemical signs of the flare, no benefits on prostate cancer outcomes were observed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102394", "title": "Carry On up the Charts", "text": "Carry On up the Charts\n\nCarry on up the Charts: The Best of The Beautiful South is an album by English Alternative rock band The Beautiful South. It is the group's fifth album and their first greatest hits collection. It was a major commercial success, reaching number one in the UK Albums Chart and going on to become the second biggest selling album of 1994.\n\n\"Carry on up the Charts\" was released in November 1994, the same year as the band's previous album \"Miaow\", with its only single, \"One Last Love Song\", being released in October 1994, only two months after \"Prettiest Eyes\"; the last single to be taken from \"Miaow\". \"One Last Love Song\" reached number 14 in the UK Singles Chart.\n\nThe album includes all of the single releases from the band's first five years in order of their release. Its title is a reference to the \"Carry On\" film series. A two-disc Limited Edition version was also released, with the bonus disc containing Non-LP/CD B-sides from the singles.\n\nReleased at a time when the group's album sales had been waning, it proved to be a surprise success. The album reached no. 1 on the UK Albums Chart on 3 December 1994 and went on to become the second biggest selling album of 1994. By the summer of 1995 it was certified as 5x platinum in the UK. Such was the album's popularity, it was claimed that one in seven British households owned a copy.\n\n\nThe Limited Edition disc contains Non-LP/CD B-sides from their single releases.\n\n\nAs was their usual modus operandi, \"The Beautiful South\" included unreleased material on the B-sides of the singles taken from their albums. One new single was released for this compilation. Details of CD singles for the other 13 tracks can be found under the entries for their original studio albums.\n\nfrom the \"One Last Love Song\" CD1\n\nfrom the \"One Last Love Song\" CD2\n\n"}
{"id": "2102404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102404", "title": "Daniele Bracciali", "text": "Daniele Bracciali\n\nDaniele Bracciali (; born 10 January 1978) is an Italian former tennis player, best ranked world no. 21 in doubles. His career-high ATP singles ranking is world no. 49, achieved in May 2006. In doubles, he reached the semifinals of the 2012 French Open and the quarterfinals of the 2013 Australian Open. In mixed doubles, he reached the semifinals of the 2012 Australian and French Opens.\n\nHe was banned by the Italian Tennis Federation in 2015 for betting and did not play for several years, but returned in 2017. In November 2018, Bracciali was once again given a life ban having been found guilty by the Tennis Integrity Unit.\n\nBracciali won his only ATP singles title in April 2006, at Casablanca, on clay. In the final he beat Nicolás Massú.\n\nIn his career, Bracciali has won a total of seven matches at Grand Slam tournaments, six at Wimbledon and one at the Australian Open. In 1998 and 2006, he reached the third round of Wimbledon, his best Grand Slam results. In the first round of Wimbledon in 2005, he defeated Ivo Karlović in five sets after surviving 51 aces from the Croat. He then took Andy Roddick, the previous year's runner-up (and eventual runner-up that year as well), to five sets.\n\nRecently, Bracciali has played primarily doubles. He has won five ATP titles. In 2012, he reached the third round of the 2012 Australian Open partnering Potito Starace. They were beaten by Max Mirnyi and Daniel Nestor. Later that year at the French Open, they reached their first semifinal. They were defeated again by the eventual champions, Max Mirnyi and Daniel Nestor. At Wimbledon, Bracciali partnered the Austrian veteran Julian Knowle and met Mirnyi and Nestor again in the second round. This was the first time that Bracciali won against them. Bracciali and Knowle lost in the quarterfinals to Robert Lindstedt and Horia Tecău.\n\nBracciali also partnered Roberta Vinci in mixed doubles at the 2012 Australian Open. Entering the draw as an alternate, they reached the semifinals. They lost to the fifth seeds Elena Vesnina and Leander Paes after they took the first set. At the French Open, Bracciali partnered Galina Voskoboeva. They reached the semifinals of the tournament, but lost to the eventual champions Sania Mirza and Mahesh Bhupathi. At Wimbledon, Bracciali teamed up again with Vinci and reached the third round. He played with Vinci at the 2012 Summer Olympics, and with Andreas Seppi in men's doubles at the same event.\n\nIn 2013, he reached the quarterfinals of the Australian Open in men's doubles partnering Lukáš Dlouhý. They lost to the Bryan brothers in straight sets.\n\nFollowing Alessio di Mauro's nine-month ban for betting on matches in November 2007, Bracciali and Potito Starace were each fined and given short suspensions from playing. Bracciali received a fine of £14,300 and a three-month ban from January 1, 2008.\n\nJuly and November 2007 interceptions between a businessman, Manlio Bruni, and Bracciali were found and they were extensively talking about gaining 50,000 euros each for a set won or lost depending on the match Bracciali was playing. The interceptions were published by several Italian tennis magazines.\n\nIn 2015, the Italian Tennis Federation banned Bracciali and Starace lifelong. After a long process, in autumn 2016 ATP confirmed the 2 years suspension, allows the players to play national events. In January 2018, the lifelong suspension was cancelled after absolution of both players. Bracciali came back on court in June 2018, but was once more banned, this time for life, in November of that year and was also fined $250,000.\n\n\"Current through the 2018 Kremlin Cup.\"\n\nBracciali is known for his powerful serve. His groundstrokes are also reliable, especially his forehand.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102414", "title": "Pierre Lardinois", "text": "Pierre Lardinois\n\nPierre Joseph Lardinois (13 August 1924 – 16 July 1987) was a Dutch politician and diplomat of the defunct Catholic People's Party (KVP) now merged into the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) party and agronomist.\n\nLardinois applied at the Wageningen Agricultural College in June 1942 majoring in Agronomy. During the German occupation Lardinois continued his study but in March 1943 the refused to sign a loyalty oath to the German occupation authority but to escape prosecution he was forced to enlist in the Arbeitslager in the German armored production industry. Following the end of World War II Lardinois returned to the Wageningen Agricultural College and obtaining an Bachelor of Science in Agriculture degree in June 1947 before graduating with an Master of Science in Engineering degree in on 23 January 1951. Lardinois worked as an agronomist from October 1951 until February 1960 for the municipality of Purmerend from October 1951 until November 1952 and for the municipality of Eindhoven from November 1952 until February 1960. Lardinois worked as a civil servant for the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries as an agricultural Attaché in Londen, England from February 1960 until September 1963.\n\nLardinois became a Member of the House of Representatives after Victor Marijnen was appointed as Prime Minister in the Cabinet Marijnen after the election of 1963, taking office on 17 September 1963. Lardinois was selected as a Member of the European Parliament and dual served in those positions, taking office on 14 October 1963. Lardinois also became active in the public sector, in December 1964 Lardinois was appointed as a trade association executive for the (NCB) serving as Chairman from 1 January 1965 until 5 April 1967. After the election of 1967 Lardinois was appointed as Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries in the Cabinet De Jong, taking office on 5 April 1967. After the election of 1971 Lardinois returned as a Member of the House of Representatives, taking office on 11 May 1971. Following the cabinet formation of 1971 Lardinois continued as Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries in the Cabinet Biesheuvel I, taking office on 6 July 1971. Lardinois was also appointed as Minister for Suriname and Netherlands Antilles Affairs, taking office on 28 January 1972. The Cabinet Biesheuvel I fell just one year later on 19 July 1972 and continued to serve in a demissionary capacity until it was replaced by the caretaker Cabinet Biesheuvel II with Lardinois continuing as Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries and Minister for Suriname and Netherlands Antilles Affairs, taking office on 9 August 1972.\n\nIn December 1972 Lardinois was nominated as the next European Commissioner from the Netherlands. Lardinois was giving the portfolios of Agriculture and Fisheries in the Ortoli Commission, he resigned as Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries and Minister for Suriname and Netherlands Antilles Affairs on 1 January 1973 and was installed as European Commissioner, serving from 6 January 1973 until 6 January 1977.\n\nLardinois retired after spending 13 years in national politics and became active in the private sector, in December 1976 Lardinois was appointed as CEO and Chairman of the Board of directors of the Rabobank serving from 1 January 1977 until 1 September 1986.\n\nLardinois was known for his abilities as a manager and \"policy wonk\". Lardinois continued to comment on political affairs until his death from cancer at the age of 62.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2102415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102415", "title": "French orthography", "text": "French orthography\n\nFrench orthography encompasses the spelling and punctuation of the French language. It is based on a combination of phonemic and historical principles. The spelling of words is largely based on the pronunciation of Old French c. 1100–1200 CE and has stayed more or less the same since then, despite enormous changes to the pronunciation of the language in the intervening years. This has resulted in a complicated relationship between spelling and sound, especially for vowels; a multitude of silent letters; and many homophones (e.g., \"/////\" (all pronounced ), \"//\" (all pronounced )). Later attempts to respell some words in accordance with their Latin etymologies further increased the number of silent letters (e.g., ' vs. older ' – compare English \"tense\", which reflects the original spelling – and ' vs. older '). Nevertheless, there are rules governing French orthography which allow for a reasonable degree of accuracy when pronouncing French words from their written forms. The reverse operation, producing written forms from a pronunciation, is much more ambiguous.\n\nThe French alphabet is based on the 26 letters of the Latin alphabet, uppercase and lowercase, with five diacritics and two orthographic ligatures.\nThe letters and are rarely used except in loanwords and regional words. The phoneme sound is usually written ; the sound is usually written anywhere but before , before , and sometimes at the ends of words. However, is common in the metric prefix kilo- (originally from Greek \"khilia\" \"a thousand\"): \"kilogramme, kilomètre, kilowatt, kilohertz,\" etc.\n\nThe usual diacritics are the acute (, \"accent aigu\"), the grave (, \"accent grave\"), the circumflex (, \"accent circonflexe\"), the diaeresis (, \"tréma\"), and the cedilla (, \"cédille\"). Diacritics have no effect on the primary alphabetical order.\n\n\nThe tilde diacritical mark ( ˜ ) above n is occasionally used in French for words and names of Spanish origin that have been incorporated into the language (e.g., \"El Niño\"). Like the other diacritics, the tilde has no impact on the primary alphabetical order.\n\nDiacritics are often omitted on capital letters, mainly for technical reasons. It is widely believed that they are not required; however both the Académie française and the Office québécois de la langue française reject this usage and confirm that \"in French, the accent has full orthographic value\", except for acronyms but not for abbreviations (e.g., \"CEE\", \"ALENA\", but \"É.-U.\"). Nevertheless, diacritics are often ignored in word games, including crosswords, Scrabble, and \"Des chiffres et des lettres\".\n\nThe two ligatures \"œ\" and \"æ\" have orthographic value. For determining alphabetical order, these ligatures are treated like the sequences \"oe\" and \"ae\".\n\n( or \"o, e collés/liés\") This ligature is a mandatory contraction of in certain words. Some of these are native French words, with the pronunciation or , e.g., \"chœur\" \"heart\" , \"cœur\" \"heart\" , \"mœurs\" \"moods (related to moral)\" , \"nœud\" \"knot\" , \"sœur\" \"sister\" , \"œuf\" \"egg\" , \"œuvre\" \"work (of art)\" , \"vœu\" \"vow\" . It usually appears in the combination \"œu\"; \"œil\" \"eye\" is an exception. Many of these words were originally written with the digraph \"eu\"; the \"o\" in the ligature represents a sometimes artificial attempt to imitate the Latin spelling: Latin \"bovem\" > Old French \"buef\"/\"beuf\" > Modern French \"bœuf\".\n\n\"Œ\" is also used in words of Greek origin, as the Latin rendering of the Greek diphthong \"οι\", e.g., \"cœlacanthe\" \"coelacanth\". These words used to be pronounced with the vowel , but in recent years a spelling pronunciation with has taken hold, e.g., \"œsophage\" or , \"Œdipe\" or etc. The pronunciation with is often seen to be more correct.\n\nWhen \"œ\" is found after the letter \"c\", the \"c\" can be pronounced in some cases (\"cœur\"), or in others (\"cœlacanthe\").\n\nThe ligature œ is not used when both letters contribute different sounds. For example, when is part of a prefix (\"coexister\"), or when is part of a suffix (\"minoen\"), or in the word \"moelle\" and its derivatives.\n\n( or \"a, e collés/liés\") This ligature is rare, appearing only in some words of Latin and Greek origin like \"tænia\", \"ex æquo\", \"cæcum\", \"æthuse\" (as named \"dog’s parsley\"). It generally represents the vowel , like .\n\nThe sequence appears in loanwords where both sounds are heard, as in \"maestro\" and \"paella\".\n\nFrench digraphs and trigraphs have both historical and phonological origins. In the first case, it is a vestige of the spelling in the word's original language (usually Latin or Greek) maintained in modern French, for example, the use of in words like \"téléphone\", in words like \"théorème\", or in \"chaotique\". In the second case, a digraph is due to an archaic pronunciation, such as , , , , and , or is merely a convenient way to expand the twenty-six-letter alphabet to cover all relevant phonemes, as in , , , , , and . Some cases are a mixture of these or are used for purely pragmatic reasons, such as for in \"il mangeait\" ('he ate'), where the serves to indicate a \"soft\" inherent in the verb's root.\n\nThe spelling of French words of Greek origin is complicated by a number of digraphs which originated in the Latin transcriptions. The digraphs , , and normally represent , , and in Greek loanwords, respectively; and the ligatures and in Greek loanwords represent the same vowel as (). Further, many words in the international scientific vocabulary were constructed in French from Greek roots and have kept their digraphs (e.g., \"stratosphère\", \"photographie\").\n\nThe Oaths of Strasbourg from 842 is the earliest text written in the early form of French called Romance or Gallo-Romance.\n\nThe Gaulish language of the inhabitants of Gaul disappeared progressively over the course of Roman rule as the Latin languages began to replace it: written (Classical) Latin and spoken (vulgar) Latin. Classical Latin, taught in schools, remained the language of religious services, of scientific works, of legislative acts and of certain literary works. Vulgar Latin, spoken by the Roman soldiers and merchants, and adopted by the natives, evolved slowly, taking the forms of different spoken Roman vernaculars according to the region of the country. \n\nEventually the different forms of Vulgar Latin would evolve into three branches in the Gallo-Romance language sub-family, the langues d'oïl north of the Loire, the langues d'oc in the south, and the Franco-Provençal languages in part of the east.\n\nIn the 9th century, the Romance vernaculars were already quite far from Latin. For example, to understand the Bible, written in Latin, footnotes were necessary. With consolidation of royal power, beginning in the 13th century, the \"Francien\" vernacular, the langue d'oil variety in usage then on the Île-de-France, brought it little by little to the other languages and evolved toward Classic French.\n\nThe languages found in the manuscripts dating from the 9th century to the 13th century form what is known as Old French or \"ancien français.\" These languages continued to evolve until, in the 14th century to the 16th century, Middle French (\"moyen français\") emerged.\n\nDuring the Middle French period (c. 1300–1600), modern spelling practices were largely established. This happened especially during the 16th century, under the influence of printers. The overall trend was towards continuity with Old French spelling, although some changes were made under the influence of changed pronunciation habits; for example, the Old French distinction between the diphthongs \"eu\" and \"ue\" was eliminated in favor of consistent \"eu\", as both diphthongs had come to be pronounced or (depending on the surrounding sounds). However, many other distinctions that had become equally superfluous were maintained, e.g. between \"s\" and soft \"c\" or between \"ai\" and \"ei\". It is likely that etymology was the guiding factor here: the distinctions \"s/c\" and \"ai/ei\" reflect corresponding distinctions in the spelling of the underlying Latin words, whereas no such distinction exists in the case of \"eu/ue\".\n\nThis period also saw the development of some explicitly etymological spellings, e.g. \"temps\" (\"time\"), \"vingt\" (\"twenty\") and \"poids\" (\"weight\") (note that in many cases, the etymologizing was sloppy or occasionally completely incorrect; \"vingt\" reflects Latin \"viginti\", with the \"g\" in the wrong place, and \"poids\" actually reflects Latin \"pensum\", with no \"d\" at all; the spelling \"poids\" is due to an incorrect derivation from Latin \"pondus\"). The trend towards etymologizing sometimes produced absurd (and generally rejected) spellings such as \"sçapvoir\" for normal \"savoir\" (\"to know\"), which attempted to combine Latin \"sapere\" (\"to be wise\", the correct origin of \"savoir\") with \"scire\" (\"to know\").\n\nModern French spelling was codified in the late 17th century by the Académie française, based largely on previously established spelling conventions. Some reforms have occurred since then, but most have been fairly minor. The most significant changes have been:\n\n\nIn October 1989, Michel Rocard, then-Prime Minister of France, established the High Council of the French Language () in Paris. He designated experts — among them linguists, representatives of the Académie française and lexicographers — to propose standardizing several points, a few of those points being:\n\nQuickly, the experts set to work. Their conclusions were submitted to Belgian and Québécois linguistic political organizations. They were likewise submitted to the Académie française, which endorsed them unanimously, saying: \n\"Current orthography remains that of usage, and the 'recommendations' of the High Council of the French language only enter into play with words that may be written in a different manner without being considered as incorrect or as faults.\"\n\nThe changes were published in the \"Journal officiel de la République française\" in December 1990. At the time the proposed changes were considered to be suggestions. In 2016, schoolbooks in France began to use the newer recommended spellings, with instruction to teachers that both old and new spellings be deemed correct.\n\nIn France, the exclamation mark, question mark, semicolon, colon, percentage mark, currency symbols, hash, and guillemet all require a non-breaking space before and after the punctuation mark. Outside of France, this rule is often ignored. Computer software may aid or hinder the application of this rule, depending on the degree of localisation, as it is marked differently from most other Western punctuation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102417", "title": "The Redundancy of Courage", "text": "The Redundancy of Courage\n\nThe Redundancy of Courage is a novel by Timothy Mo published in 1991. It is set in the fictitious country of Danu in Southeast Asia, which is based on East Timor. It is narrated by Adolph Ng, an ethnic Chinese businessman educated in Canada. It was shortlisted for the Booker Prize for Fiction.\n\nLike East Timor, Danu is a former Portuguese colony north of Australia. It is invaded and occupied by its giant neighbour, which is not named, but is based on Indonesia. The people of the occupying country are referred to throughout the book as the \"malai\". This similar to \"malae\", the word for foreigner in Tetum, East Timor's main language. Danu is annexed by the \"malai\" and declared their 'fifty-eighth province', over which their green and white flag is raised.\n\nAlthough the characters are fictional, they are closely based on people involved in events in East Timor during 1975. Osvaldo Oliveira, commander of the FAKINTIL guerilla army, is based on Nicolau Lobato, who became Prime Minister following the unilateral declaration of independence in 1975, and Xanana Gusmão, who later became the first President of East Timor in 2002. FAKOUM, the pro-independence party, is based on Fretilin. FAKINTIL is similarly based on Falintil.\n\nJoaquim Lobato is based on exiled leader José Ramos-Horta (later Foreign Minister, Prime Minister and President). Bill Mabbely is based on Australian journalist Roger East, who was killed by Indonesian troops in Dili on the day of the invasion. The date of the \"malai\" invasion of Danu, 7 December, is the same as that of Indonesia's invasion of East Timor.\n\nBalibo, the town where five Australian-based journalists were killed, is depicted in the novel, as is the killing of the journalists.\n"}
{"id": "2102426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102426", "title": "Baicheng", "text": "Baicheng\n\nBaicheng () is a prefecture-level city in the northwestern part of Jilin province, People's Republic of China, bordering Inner Mongolia to the north and west and Heilongjiang to the east and northeast. At the 2010 census, 2,033,058 people lived within its administrative area of .\n\nThe area around present day Baicheng was a nomadic area which was inhabited by several nomad tribes in Northeast China as early as the Late Neolithic Age, including the Eastern Hu, the Xianbei, the Fuyu, and the Khitans once inhabited the area. During the Liao Dynasty, Baicheng was the political center of four emperors, including Emperor Shengzong, Emperor Xingzong, Emperor Daozong, and Emperor Tianzuo, as the seat of the local government was located at Chengsijiazi Ancient fort in today's Taobei District. As Qing Government forsook the settlement of Han Chinese in the 19th century, no farming was allowed until 1902. In 1904 Baicheng became a county going by the name of Jing'an (). In 1914 Jing'an County was renamed Tao'an (). By 1938 it was finally renamed Baicheng, which in Chinese means \"white town\". The name's origin is the Mongolian name of the city \"Chaghanhot\", which also means \"white town\". Baicheng used to belong to Nenjiang and Heilongjiang province, under the jurisdiction of the former provincial capital Qiqihar. In 1954, with the Heilongjiang Province merged with Songjiang Province, Baicheng was incorporated into Jilin Province.\n\nBaicheng's importance started to increase after a railway from Qiqihar to Siping through Baicheng was constructed in the 1920s. In the 1930s another railway connecting Baicheng to Ulanhot and the mines at Arxan was opened northwestward. These two lines enabled Baicheng to become a regional transportation hub in western Jilin Province. One more rail line connecting Changchun was opened in the mid-1930s as well.\n\nBaicheng is located in the eastern part of the Horqin Grassland, and situated in the northwestern part of Jilin Province. Bordering prefecture cities are:\n\n\nThe city's metro area is located from the provincial capital of Changchun, from Qiqihar, from Siping, and from Ulanhot. The city is located at latitude 44° 13′—46° 18′ N and longitude 121° 38′—124° 22' E. At its greatest width, the city spans from north to south and from east to west. The total area of the city is , occupying a mere 13.7% of the provincial area. The eastern part of the Greater Khingan Mountains lies in the northwest of Baicheng. Grassland and wetlands are prominent throughout the city's southeastern part.\n\nBaicheng has a rather dry, monsoon-influenced, humid continental climate (Köppen \"Dwa\"), with long (lasting from November to March), very cold, windy, but dry winters due to the influence of the Siberian high, and hot, humid summers, due to the East Asian monsoon. The coldest month, January, averages , while the warmest month, July, averages ; the annual mean is . More than 70% of the annual precipitation falls from June to August alone. Drought conditions are common in spring and autumn; from 1961 to 2009, there were 31 years with spring drought and 28 with autumn drought.\n\nTextile industry is one of the main pillars of the economy.\nAgriculture of the area is centred on plantation of soy beans and oil plants. It is home to the Baicheng Weapons Test Centre.\n\nBaicheng railway station is a railway hub in western Jilin Province. There are multiple daily departures to other cities including Beijing, Harbin, Changchun, Shenyang, Dalian, Qiqihar, Ulanhot and several other cities in northern provinces of China.\n\nExpressways:\n\nNational Highway (GXXX):\n\nBaicheng Chang'an Airport is located in the town of Taohe () in Taobei District, from the city center. It has been under construction since October 26, 2012. The total investment is 480 million yuan. The airport was opened on 31 March 2017, the fifth civil airport in Jilin province. The airport has a runway that is 2,500 meters long and 45 meters wide (class 4C), and a 4,471 square-meter terminal building. It is designed to handle 200,000 passengers and 700 tons of cargo annually by 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102439", "title": "Autotel", "text": "Autotel\n\nAutotel (also called PALM, or Public Automated Land Mobile) is a radiotelephone service which was the \"missing link\" between earlier MTS/IMTS and later cellular telephone services. It used digital signaling for supervisory messages (call setup, ringing, channel assignment, etc.), except the voice channel was analog (as was the original NMT and AMPS cellular systems). This system was not cellular, as it used existent high-power (35 watt) VHF channels. This system was developed for rural British Columbia, Canada, where building a network of low-power cellular terminals to cover a forest would have been prohibitively expensive.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102443", "title": "Export Administration Regulations", "text": "Export Administration Regulations\n\nThe Export Administration Regulations (EAR) are a set of regulations found at 15 C.F.R. § 730 \"et seq\". They are administered by the Bureau of Industry and Security, which is part of the US Commerce Department. In general, the EAR govern whether a person may export a thing from the U.S., reexport the thing from a foreign country, or transfer a thing from one person to another in a foreign country. The EAR apply to physical things (sometimes referred to as \"commodities\") as well as technology and software.\n\nThe EAR have very broad application. With only the exceptions noted below, the EAR apply to the following categories of things:\n\n\nThe EAR do not apply, however, to the following:\n\n\nThe EAR contain a list called the Commerce Control List (CCL). The CCL is a limited list of items within the scope of the EAR which merit particular attention because they could potentially have a military use in addition to a commercial use. CCL-listed items are therefore often referred to as \"dual use.\" The CCL, however, is not an exhaustive list of things that are within the scope of the EAR; to the contrary, the overwhelming majority of things that fall within the scope of the EAR are not listed on the CCL; instead, they are given the designation \"EAR99.\"\n\nItems that are listed on the CCL are organized according to alpha-numeric designations called \"Export Control Classification Numbers\" (ECCNs).\n\nThe EAR contain a list of rules called the 10 General Prohibitions, which provide as follows:\n\nYou may not, without a license or License Exception, export any item subject to the EAR to another country or reexport any item of U.S.-origin if each of the following is true:\n\n(i) The item is controlled for a reason indicated in the applicable Export Control Classification Number (ECCN), and\n\n(ii) Export to the country of destination requires a license for the control reason as indicated on the Country Chart at part 738 of the EAR. \n\nYou may not, without a license or license exception, reexport or export from abroad foreign-made commodities that incorporate controlled U.S.-origin commodities, foreign-made commodities that are “bundled” with controlled U.S.-origin software, foreign-made software that is commingled with controlled U.S.-origin software, or foreign-made technology that is commingled with controlled U.S.-origin technology if such items require a license according to any of the provisions in the EAR and incorporate or are commingled with more than a \"de minimis\" amount of controlled U.S. content, as defined in §734.4 of the EAR concerning the scope of the EAR.\n\nGeneral Prohibition 3 applies to certain items that are produced outside of the U.S. and that are the \"direct product\" of U.S. technology or software, or they are developed from a plat which is the \"direct product\" of U.S. technology or software.\n\nUnder General Prohibition 3, you may not, without a license or license exception, reexport any item that meets the direct product test to a destination in Country Group D:1, E:1, or E:2 (See supplement no.1 to part 740 of the EAR). Additionally, you may not, without a license or license exception, reexport or export from abroad any ECCN 0A919 commodities (foreign-made military commodities) that meet the direct product test to a destination in Country Group D:1, D:3, D:4, D:5, E:1, or E:2.\n\nYou may not take any action that is prohibited by a denial order issued under 15 CFR Part 766. These orders prohibit many actions in addition to direct exports by the person denied export privileges, including some transfers within a single country, either in the United States or abroad, by other persons. You are responsible for ensuring that any of your transactions in which a person who is denied export privileges is involved do not violate the terms of the order. Orders denying export privileges are published in the Federal Register when they are issued and are the legally controlling documents in accordance with their terms. BIS also maintains compilations of persons denied export privileges on its Web site at \"<nowiki>http://www.bis.doc.gov</nowiki>.\" BIS may, on an exceptional basis, authorize activity otherwise prohibited by a denial order. See 15 CFR §764.3(a)(2).\n\nYou may not, without a license, knowingly export or reexport any item subject to the EAR to an end-user or end-use that is prohibited by part 744 of the EAR.\n\nYou may not, without a license or License Exception authorized under part 746, export or reexport any item subject to the EAR to any of the following countries:\n\n\nU.S. persons may not perform certain activities relating to nuclear explosive devices, missiles, and chemical or biological weapons, as set out in 15 CFR § 744.6.\n\nUnder General Prohibition 8, if you export or reexport an item, it may not pass through any of the following countries without a license : \n\n\nYou may not violate terms or conditions of a license or of a License Exception issued under or made a part of the EAR, and you may not violate any order issued under or made a part of the EAR. \n\nYou may not sell, transfer, export, reexport, finance, order, buy, remove, conceal, store, use, loan, dispose of, transport, forward, or otherwise service, in whole or in part, any item subject to the EAR and exported or to be exported with knowledge that a violation of the Export Administration Regulations, the Export Administration Act or any order, license, License Exception, or other authorization issued thereunder has occurred, is about to occur, or is intended to occur in connection with the item. Nor may you rely upon any license or License Exception after notice to you of the suspension or revocation of that license or exception.\n\nWith a few exceptions, the EAR define \"export\" to mean:\n\n\nOnce a thing has been exported from the United States to a foreign country, the EAR define \"reexport\" to mean a subsequent export of the thing from the first foreign country to a second foreign country, and to any subsequent export after that.\n\nThe EAR define \"technology\" to mean information necessary for the “development,” “production,” “use,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing (or other terms specified in ECCNs on the CCL that control “technology”) of an item.\n\n“Technology” may be in any tangible or intangible form, such as written or oral communications, blueprints, drawings, photographs, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, computer-aided design files, manuals or documentation, electronic media or information revealed through visual inspection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102447", "title": "Sun God (statue)", "text": "Sun God (statue)\n\nSun God is a monumental statue by French-American sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle located on the campus of the University of California San Diego. The figurative sculpture is a multicolored bird-like creature, perched atop a tall arch-shaped, vine-covered concrete pedestal.\n\nErected in February 1983 as the first of the Stuart Collection of public art projects, the polyester and fiberglass \"Sun God\" has become a notable feature of the UCSD campus. It is located on a grassy area between the Faculty Club and Mandeville Auditorium, on the eastern periphery of the John Muir College campus. \n\nSince the 1980s, the UCSD Associated Students organization has sponsored an annual event, the Sun God Festival, with the statue as its official mascot. Over the years, numerous visual-arts students have accessorized the statue with items such as sunglasses; a cap and gown; an ID card; a large, water-spraying phallus; and even a nest with eggs painted in the statue's trademark bright colors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102465", "title": "Shadow Hunter (TV series)", "text": "Shadow Hunter (TV series)\n\nShadow Hunter is a 13-episode documentary television series about the paranormal, hosted by Darryll Walsh, a ghost hunter, best-selling author, and doctor of parapsychology.\n\n\"Cases\" presented in the series are from Walsh's own collection, news headlines, the internet, and parapsychological organizations that Walsh speaks to.\n\nThe series is produced in association with CHUM Television, and aired on Space in Canada.\n"}
{"id": "2102471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102471", "title": "Pierre-Yves Pelletier", "text": "Pierre-Yves Pelletier\n\nPierre-Yves Pelletier is a graphic designer, who has designed 110 stamps for Canada Post. Pierre-Yves Pelletier is half French Canadian. He lives in Belœil, Quebec.\n\nHe was Director of Publications for the Organizing Committee of the XXI Olympic Games in Montréal in 1976.\n\nIn 1999, he received the Prix Louis-Philippe Beaudoin award.\n"}
{"id": "2102484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102484", "title": "Luchs", "text": "Luchs\n\nLuchs (German for \"Lynx\") may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102489", "title": "Blue Is the Colour", "text": "Blue Is the Colour\n\nBlue Is the Colour is the fifth studio album from English band The Beautiful South, released in October 1996 through Go! Discs and in America through Ark 21 Records. The album was released following the two singles \"Pretenders to the Throne\" and \"Dream a Little Dream\", which never featured on any album until the release of the second greatest hits \"Solid Bronze\" in 2001.\n\nThe album continued the melancholic tone of its predecessor \"Miaow\", and is generally considered to be the band's darkest effort, reflecting Heaton's life at the time. This comes across in songs such as \"Liars’ Bar\" (about alcoholism), \"The Sound of North America\" (a sarcastic look at capitalism), \"Mirror\" (Prostitution), \"Blackbird on the Wire\", \"Have Fun\" (which Heaton has cited as his saddest song), and the self-explanatory \"Alone\".\n\nThe album spawned 4 singles, the first being \"Rotterdam\", which peaked at No. 5 in the charts in September 1996. The follow ups were \"Don't Marry Her\" which reached No. 8 in December, \"Blackbird on the Wire\", which got to No. 23 in March 1997 and finally the single \"Liar's Bar\" which just missed the Top 40 in June. The lyrics to \"Don't Marry Her\" were substantially altered for radio release – changing from \"Don't marry her, fuck me\" to \"Don't marry her, have me\", and with \"sweaty bollocks\" becoming \"Sandra Bullocks\". On \"Liars' Bar\", Paul Heaton's vocal consciously imitates the style of Tom Waits, while in \"Alone\" the bass line serves as another allusion to him. The album itself topped the album charts on 2 November 1996.\n\nSome versions of the album come with a sticker saying \"WARNING track one contains some possibly offensive blue language\"\n\n\nAs was their usual modus operandi, \"The Beautiful South\" included unreleased material on the B-sides of the singles taken from their albums.\n\nfrom the \"Rotterdam\" CD5\n\nfrom the \"Don't Marry Her\" CD1\n\nfrom the \"Don't Marry Her\" CD2\nNote: The French version of \"Dream a Little Dream of Me\" (\"Les Yeux Ouverts\") was recorded for the movie \"French Kiss\". It was re-used in the film \"The Devil Wears Prada\".\n\nfrom the \"Blackbird on the Wire\" CD1\nfrom the \"Blackbird on the Wire\" CD2\n\nfrom the \"Liars’ Bar\" CD1\nfrom the \"Liar's Bar\" CD2\n\n"}
{"id": "2102493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102493", "title": "Fourth Ward (Atlanta)", "text": "Fourth Ward (Atlanta)\n\nAtlanta's Fourth Ward encompassed mainly what is now called the Old Fourth Ward.\n\nA new city charter increased the radius of the city from one to one and a half miles, reduced the number of wards back to five and created a bi-cameral council of two councilmen from each ward and a second body of three at-large aldermen was established.\n\nThe new Fourth ward layout was from Pryor and tracks east on Georgia RR to city limits then north west to West Peachtree and south to origin. Two councilmen would be elected from each ward each year.\n\nIn late 1875, an ordinance passed where each year one councilman would be elected from each ward for a two-year term. The first year, 1876 just had one citywide alderman and a single councilman from each ward and they would be fully staffed two years later.\n\nOn November 5, 1883 a Sixth Ward (beige) was carved out of the Fourth and Fifth Wards. The Fourth lost the entire Peachtree St corridor leaving a district of working class citizens: Germans and Jews to the north and Blacks to the south. Before 1910, the ward had become almost exclusively Black centered on Sweet Auburn and a large portion of it was destroyed in the Great Atlanta fire of 1917.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102505", "title": "Joseph Aubin Doiron", "text": "Joseph Aubin Doiron\n\nJoseph Aubin Doiron, (June 10, 1922 – January 29, 1995) was the 22nd Lieutenant Governor of Prince Edward Island from 1980 to 1985, becoming the province's second Acadian to hold this position.\n\nDoiron was born in North Rustico in 1922. Following his early education in local schools, he went on to receive his B.A. from Sainte-Anne's College in Nova Scotia and his D.D.S from the Université de Montréal in 1951.\n\nHe was married to Rose Bernice Gallant of Duvar, PEI, and together they had seven children. Before his appointment as Lieutenant-Governor, Doiron practiced dentistry in Summerside.\n\nAubin Doiron was appointed Lieutenant-Governor of Prince Edward Island on January 14, 1980. Doiron had always been active in Acadian affairs, and was the founding President and Chairman of the Acadian Mardi Gras Association, as well as a charter member and President of the Acadian Museum Association in Miscouche.\n\nHe was also a past President of the Dental Association of Prince Edward Island and a representative on the Board of Governors of the Canadian Dental Association. Doiron was also a member of the Greater Summerside and Area Chamber of Commerce and a past director of the Prince Edward Island Heritage Foundation.\n\nIn 1994, he was made a Member of the Order of Canada.\n\nJoseph Aubin Doiron died at the age of 72 in 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102507", "title": "The Power Trip", "text": "The Power Trip\n\nThe Two Man Power Trip was a professional wrestling tag team in the World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment (WWF, now known as WWE) in 2001 consisting of Stone Cold Steve Austin and Triple H.\n\nAt WrestleMania X-Seven, Stone Cold Steve Austin took on The Rock for the WWF Championship in a face vs. face match; however, during the match, Vince McMahon interfered, which eventually led to Austin attacking The Rock with a steel chair to win the WWF Championship and in the process aligning himself with his long-time enemy. The next night on \"Raw Is War\", there would be a rematch between the Rock and Stone Cold, this time in a steel cage match. Meanwhile, Triple H demanded to know why Vince aligned himself with Austin, claiming that he took out Austin (referring to his previous feud with Austin that had ended only a month prior) for him. Vince arrogantly replied with \"\"Austin was a winner at WrestleMania... you weren't\"\", which led Triple H to leave the arena in frustration.\n\nLater that night, during the Austin-Rock match, Triple H entered the cage with his sledgehammer seemingly to help The Rock at first. This was not the case, however, as Triple H, along with Austin, attacked The Rock. Stone Cold showed a new, vicious, and much more violent side to him as he would attack wrestlers like The Brothers of Destruction (The Undertaker and Kane), Hardy Boyz (Matt and Jeff), and even Lita with the steel chair several times. The two, who did not christen themselves under any name, were called \"The Two-Man Power Trip\". On the episode of Smackdown following Wrestlemania, Austin as per request of Mr. McMahon assaulted his long-time friend Jim Ross after Jim Ross told Austin his opinion of his alliance with Triple H and Vince McMahon. Later that night, Triple H defeated Chris Jericho to win the Intercontinental Championship. During this time, Triple H actually won the Intercontinental Championship twice; a week after defeating Jericho he was defeated by Jeff Hardy for the belt, but Triple H quickly regained the title on the following \"Raw Is War\". The reigns were his third and fourth overall. Austin would go on to be named Most Hated Wrestler of 2001 by Pro Wrestling Illustrated.\n\nWhile holding both major singles titles, The Two-Man Power Trip (which Triple H and Austin had become known as) began feuding with The Brothers of Destruction (The Undertaker and Kane) after the Brothers stopped a Power Trip attack on the Hardy Boyz. The rivalry got further intensified shortly thereafter when Kane and Undertaker defeated Edge and Christian to win the WWF Tag Team Championship. \n\nAustin and Triple H began seeking a match with The Brothers of Destruction, looking to further cement their dominance by controlling both major singles titles as well as the tag team titles, a rare feat in the company's history. However, since McMahon was (in storyline) going through a divorce with his wife Linda McMahon, in order for the match to be signed off on he had to agree to terms her lawyers set. Therefore, at Backlash, The Power Trip would not only challenge for the tag team titles but be defending their respective singles titles. Austin and Triple H won the match after Triple H hit Kane with his sledgehammer and pinned him, and as such were in control of all three of the WWF's major championships. They became just the second team ever to simultaneously hold all of the WWF's three primary titles (after Shawn Michaels and Kevin Nash, who were WWF Intercontinental Champion and WWF Champion, respectively, when they won the tag titles for one day on September 24, 1995).\n\nThe next night on \"Raw Is War\", McMahon booked an injured Kane in a title match against Austin, only for Linda McMahon to overrule this and give the Undertaker the title shot. However, Austin and Triple H attacked Kane before the match and the match ended in a disqualification. The Power Trip then attacked Kane's arm, giving him an elbow injury. On the next \"SmackDown!\", Undertaker was awarded a rematch versus Austin at Judgment Day. Later, Undertaker attacked Austin during a Triple H-Jeff Hardy title match with a chain and threw him through a glass window. Vince McMahon called for an ambulance, only to reveal that Undertaker was the driver. The Undertaker then attacked McMahon and Austin, and later fought against the returning Rikishi, in a match that ended with a brawl between a returning Austin and Taker. At Insurrextion, Undertaker defeated both members of the Power Trip in a handicap match. Austin's WWF Championship was on the line, but did not change hands because Undertaker pinned Triple H. On the next \"Raw Is War\", Mick Foley managed to make Rikishi leave the Alliance, getting him into a match with Austin with Undertaker being banned from the building. Austin won the match only for Rikishi to hit Stephanie with the Stinkface after the match. On the next \"SmackDown!\", The Undertaker called out Austin, but Kane made his return to help his brother. On the May 14 episode of \"Raw Is War\", Triple H challenged Kane to a Chain match for the Intercontinental title at Judgment Day, and the Power Trip offered the Brothers a tag titles shot. Undertaker was informed that his wife, Sara, was involved in a car accident, leaving the arena and making Kane fight the Power Trip by himself. Kane lost that match. Austin then revealed that Sara was fine. On the next \"SmackDown!\", The Undertaker attacked Austin, and Austin said Triple H was the one to call the police. Undertaker demanded a No Holds Barred match with Triple H. Triple H denied the accusations, and Stephanie McMahon revealed that Austin borrowed Triple H's cellphone that Monday. During the match, Stone Cold admitted he called the police, and the match ended in no contest after the Power Trip attacked Undertaker, making Kane run down for the save. At Judgment Day, Austin accidentally hit Triple H with a steel chair during his chain match with Kane, causing Triple H to lose his Intercontinental Championship. Triple H did not return the favor, however; instead, he helped Austin retain his title against the Undertaker in the main event.\n\nThe next night on \"Raw Is War\", the Two-Man Power Trip faced Chris Benoit and Chris Jericho with the tag team titles on the line. In this match, Triple H suffered a legitimate and career-threatening injury when he misstepped, causing him to suffer a tear in his left quadriceps. Despite his inability to place any weight on his leg, Triple H was able to complete the match. Near the end of the match, Jericho tried to pin Austin, but Triple H got in the ring and tried to hit Jericho with the sledgehammer. Jericho avoided the blow and the sledgehammer instead hit Austin in the chest, a situation Jericho and Benoit took advantage of to win the match and the titles.\n\nOn the May 24, 2001 episode of Smackdown, Austin came out to the ring and berated Triple H, blaming him for the tag team loss and essentially cutting off all ties with him. As a result, the tag team disbanded right before the Invasion angle began.\n\nOn the January 17, 2002 episode of Smackdown!, the final episode before the Royal Rumble (2002), Triple H and Austin reunited, now as fan favorites, and defeated Kurt Angle and Booker T in a tag team match, though this did not lead to a long-term reunion of the team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102508", "title": "Foxes (film)", "text": "Foxes (film)\n\nFoxes is a 1980 American coming-of-age drama film directed by Adrian Lyne, in his feature directorial debut, and written by Gerald Ayres. The film stars Jodie Foster, Scott Baio, Sally Kellerman, Randy Quaid, and Cherie Currie, in her acting debut. It revolves around a group of teenage girls coming of age in suburban Los Angeles toward the end of the disco era.\n\n\"Foxes\" was theatrically released on February 29, 1980, by PolyGram Pictures.\nThe film was Foster's penultimate major film appearance before taking a sabbatical from acting to attend Yale. It received several positive reviews from critics and was a moderate box office success grossing $7,470,348 in North America. The film has attained a cult status and is often cited amongst the greatest teenage-centric films.\n\nA group of four teenage girls in the San Fernando Valley during the end of the 1970s have painful emotional troubles. Deirdre (Kandice Stroh) is a disco queen who is fascinated by her sexuality, likes boys and has many relationship troubles. Madge (Marilyn Kagan) is unhappily overweight and angry that she is still a virgin. Her parents are overprotective, and she has an annoying younger sister. Annie (Cherie Currie) is a teenage runaway who drinks, uses drugs, and runs away from her abusive police officer father. Jeanie (Jodie Foster) feels she has to take care of them all, is fighting with her divorced mother, and is yearning for a closer relationship with her distant father, a tour manager for the rock band Angel.\n\nThe girls believe school is a waste of time, their boyfriends are immature, and that they are alienated from the adults in their lives. All four seem immersed in the decadence of the late 1970s. The only way for them to loosen up and forget the bad things happening in their lives is to party and have fun. Annie is the least responsible, while Jeanie is ready to grow up and wants to stop acting like a child. Jeanie is most worried about Annie and continually takes risks to try to keep Annie clean and safe. Annie's unstable behavior keeps everyone on edge, and finally leads to her death in an automobile accident.\n\nAnnie's death brings changes for the rest of the girls. Madge marries Jay (Randy Quaid), an older man who deflowered her, Deirdre no longer acts boy-crazy, and Jeanie graduates from high school and is about to head off to college. After Madge and Jay's wedding, Jeanie visits Annie's grave and smokes a cigarette. With a smile, she muses that Annie wanted to be buried under a pear tree, \"not in a box or anything\", so that each year her friends could come by, have a pear and say, \"Annie's tastin' good this year, huh?\"\n\n\nThe film received an approval rating of 67% from 9 reviews of Rotten Tomatoes.\n\nNoted film critic Roger Ebert gave the film a good review, writing:\nThe movie follows its four foxes through several days and several adventures. It's a loosely structured film, deliberately episodic to suggest the shapeless form of these teen-agers' typical days and nights. Things happen on impulse. Stuff comes up. Kids stay out all night, or run away, or get drunk, or get involved in what's supposed to be a civilized dinner party until it's crashed by a mob of greasers.\n\nThe subject of the movie is the way these events are seen so very differently by the kids and their parents. And at the heart of the movie is one particular, wonderful, and complicated parent-child relationship, between Jodie Foster and Sally Kellerman. They only have a few extended scenes together, but the material is written and acted with such sensitivity that we really understand the relationship.\nThe film received several other positive reviews and earned $7,470,348 domestically.\n\n\"Foxes\" was released in a Region 1 DVD by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer on August 5, 2003. A Blu-ray edition of the film was released by Kino Lorber on January 15, 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102512", "title": "Oenothera speciosa", "text": "Oenothera speciosa\n\nOenothera speciosa is a species of evening primrose known by several common names, including pinkladies, pink evening primrose, showy evening primrose, Mexican primrose, amapola, and even \"buttercups\"\n\nIt is a herbaceous perennial wildflower. Originally native to the grasslands of Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, northeastern New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas, it has been naturalized in 28 of the lower 48 U.S. states as well as Chihuahua and Coahuila in Mexico. It frequently escapes from gardens. The specific name, \"speciosa\", means \"showy\".\n\nThe plant's wild habitat includes rocky prairies, open woodlands, slopes, roadsides, meadows and disturbed areas. While it makes an attractive garden plant, care should be taken with it as it can become invasive, spreading by runners and seeds. This drought-resistant plant prefers loose, fast-draining soil and full sun.\n\nThe pink primrose has glabrous (smooth) to pubescent stems that grow to in height. The pubescent leaves are alternate with very short or no petiole (sessile), reaching long to broad. They are variable in shape, from linear to obovate, and are toothed or wavy-edged. It produces single, four-petaled, cup-shaped flowers on the upper leaf axils. These fragrant shell-pink flowers bloom throughout the summer into early autumn. The flowers start out white and grow pink as they age. \n\nThe flower throats, as well as the stigmas and stamens, have a soft yellow color. It blooms both day and night, but typically in the pre-dawn hours, closing when the full sun hits them. They bloom from March to July, and occasionally in the fall. The flowers are frequented by several species of insect, but moths are the most common as the flowers are mostly open at night.\n\nThis plant is also frequently referred to as a buttercup, though it is not a true buttercup (genus \"Ranunculus\"), or even in the buttercup family Ranunculaceae.\n\n\nThe pink evening primrose is used in the temperate latitudes as an ornamental plant. However, it does not survive a severe winter. It is a ground cover. With the USDA climates 4 to 9, the pink evening primrose in most areas of Central Europe should be sufficiently hardy. The green plant parts can be cooked or eaten as a salad; Harvest, if possible, before flowers develop, because then the taste is pleasant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102515", "title": "The Mamalukes", "text": "The Mamalukes\n\nThe Mamalukes were a professional wrestling tag team in World Championship Wrestling.\n\nThe Mamalukes were formed in late 1999 when Big Vito arrived in WCW and established a team with Johnny the Bull. They were managed by Tony Marinara. The gimmick was a takeoff of Italian-Americans in the Mafia which they played up heavily.\n\nIn late 1999, Disco Inferno began entering the ring with Marinara at his side. At WCW Mayhem, however, Inferno accidentally knocked his manager unconscious with a chair, causing his own distraction and loss of the WCW Cruiserweight Championship to Evan Karagias. Marinara then left Inferno and joined the newly introduced Mamalukes. A war ensued between them with Inferno surprisingly backed by former adversary Lash LeRoux. The two Cruiserweights frequently pulled pranks on their three enemies such as tarring and feathering Marinara.\n\nThe rival teams were pitted against one another at Starrcade 1999. During the match, Inferno again attacked his partner accidentally, allowing the Mamalukes to pick up the victory. This led to Inferno becoming the Mamalukes' enforcer as a means of paying off his debt and earn their forgiveness. This forced Inferno to turn on LeRoux. He also became the Mamalukes' manager when Marinara left and set them up with twins, Lolli and Pop in a failed attempt to distract them while he escaped. In early 2000, the Mamalukes feuded with David Flair and Crowbar and won their WCW World Tag Team Championship. They also had a substantial feud with the Harris Brothers who defeated them for the titles on two occasions and lost on one. The Mamalukes' final Tag Team title loss came at Uncensored 2000.\n\nIn April, the Mamalukes joined the New Blood faction with Disco Inferno at their side; however, after continually doing their dirty work, he left for The Filthy Animals. The Mamalukes benefited from their association with the New Blood when Eric Bischoff won the WCW Hardcore Championship. Bischoff did not want this title and gave it to them jointly on June 7. The Mamalukes were then forced into a match on June 19 to decide a single Hardcore Champion. Vito won, and the two split soon afterwards.\n\nWhen Johnny the Bull returned from an injury in September, 2000, he betrayed Vito and joined Vito's rival faction, The Natural Born Thrillers. Eventually the Mamalukes reunited in December 2000, They teamed together until March 2001, when the World Wrestling Federation bought out WCW.\n\nAlthough the Mamalukes never got the chance to reunite again in another company, both men would later become part of different incarnations of The Full Blooded Italians on World Wrestling Entertainment's SmackDown! brand. They each teamed with Nunzio who, in both the original and WWE version of Extreme Championship Wrestling, teamed as part of the F.B.I. with their former manager Marinara. Marinara later adopted the name Tony Mamaluke as a reference to the WCW tag team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102521", "title": "Walton, Warwickshire", "text": "Walton, Warwickshire\n\nWalton or Walton d'Eiville is a small hamlet just south of Wellesbourne in the civil parish of Wellesbourne and Walton, in the Stratford-on-Avon district, in the county of Warwickshire, England. It is next to the River Dene and is most notable for Walton Hall which is now a hotel and spa. It is home to the Hamiltons who own the land and many of the villages houses.\n\nThe village comprises 15 cottages, plus the old estate office, forge, school house, farm, and the old laundry\n\nThere has been some kind of settlement at Walton, on the little river Dene, between the Fosse Way and Wellesbourne, since Iron Age times. The field to the south of the House, the site of the deserted village of Walton d 'Eivile, is still known as Old Town.\n\nThe name \"Walton\" comes from settlement/farmstead of Wealas, native Celts, which is what the new Anglo Saxon speaking peoples called the native inhabitants of England.\n\nThere is strong evidence that in many areas of England taken over by Germanic speaking settlers, the native British (Wealas) remained undisturbed, farming the same land they did when the Romans left. Over time they just adapted to the new conditions and forgot their Celtic tongue (similar to Old Welsh/Cornish) for the language and culture of the newcomers in order to climb the social ladder, or were coerced to do so. It was in the Anglo Saxon interest that the native British carry on as usual to ensure the economy produced food and goods for the new landowners.\n"}
{"id": "2102524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102524", "title": "Raşit Pertev", "text": "Raşit Pertev\n\nRaşit Pertev (born September 1958) is a development practitioner, politician and writer. He was appointed as the Secretary of the International Fund for Agricultural Development in October 2013.\n\nBorn in Larnaca, Cyprus, Pertev is a graduate of Economics from the University of Cambridge and of Development Economics from the University of London. As Assistant Secretary General of the World Federation of Farmers, he led the international recognition and mainstreaming of farmers' organizations in development policies and institutions, from 1994 to 2000. He served in the World Bank as International Cooperative Specialist and as Senior Agriculture Economist, from 2000-2004 and 2010–2013, in financial restructuring and agricultural reform operations in Turkey, Croatia, Uganda and Burundi.\n\nBetween 2004 and 2005, Pertev served as Minister Agriculture and Forestry in North Cyprus, where he led reforms especially in dairy and olive sectors. In April 2005 he was appointed Chief Negotiator for the United Nations Peace Talks and Undersecretary for the Office of the President under the Turkish Cypriot leader Mehmet Ali Talat, and served as plenipotentiary to Mr. Talat until December 2007. As a writer, he has authored several published books on problems of war and displacement, including an award-winning documentary on missing persons.\n"}
{"id": "2102534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102534", "title": "Alan Brody", "text": "Alan Brody\n\nAlan Brody is an American playwright and academic, currently Professor of Theater at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. As a playwright, he has won numerous awards. He has also directed plays and written two novels, \"Coming To\" and \"Hey Lenny, Hey Jack\". From 2000 to 2006 he served as Associate Provost for the Arts at MIT.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102563", "title": "Quench (album)", "text": "Quench (album)\n\nQuench is The Beautiful South's sixth original album, released in the UK on 12 October 1998. Including the compilation \"Carry On Up The Charts\", it was the band's third album in a row to reach the top of the charts.\n\nThe cover depicts a boxer by Scottish painter Peter Howson. Commissioned for the album, the original painting can be seen in the Ferens Art Gallery, Hull. After the band cropped the image and used it in merchandise and promotional material, Howson took legal action against the band, receiving around £30,000 in damages. Whilst the first two singles from the album also have artwork by Howson, \"How Long's a Tear Take to Dry?\" and \"The Table\" do not.\n\n\nAll songs written by Paul Heaton and Dave Rotheray\n\nAs was their usual modus operandi, \"The Beautiful South\" included unreleased material on the B-sides of the singles taken from their albums.\n\nfrom the \"Perfect 10\" CD1\nfrom the \"Perfect 10\" CD2\n\nfrom the \"Dumb\" CD1\nfrom the \"Dumb\" CD2\n\nfrom the \"How Long's a Tear Take to Dry?\" CD1\nfrom the \"How Long's a Tear Take to Dry?\" CD2\n\nfrom \"The Table\" CD1\nfrom \"The Table\" CD2\nAll the acoustic tracks were recorded for BBC Radio 2 and UK Arena's songwriter circle 'In The Round' Dec. 2, 1998.\n\nwith: \n"}
{"id": "2102580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102580", "title": "The Smoking Gunns", "text": "The Smoking Gunns\n\nThe Smoking Gunns were a professional wrestling tag team of kayfabe brothers Billy Gunn (Monty Sopp) and Bart Gunn (Mike Polchlopek). They portrayed cowboys in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) from 1993 to 1996. As a team, the Smoking Gunns won the WWF Tag Team Championship three times.\n\nPolchlopek and Sopp began teaming as the \"Long Riders\" in the International Wrestling Federation. Polchlopek wrestled as Brett Colt, while Sopp was known as Kip Winchester. They won the IWF World Tag Team Championship together twice before signing with the World Wrestling Federation.\n\nThe Smoking Gunns made their WWF debut on April 5, 1993 on the day after WrestleMania IX, defeating Barry Horowitz and Reno Riggins. Their first pay-per-view appearance was at the King of the Ring 1993 in an eight-man tag team match. The Gunns and the Steiner Brothers scored the win over The Headshrinkers and Money Incorporated when Billy pinned Ted DiBiase. Their next big match came at SummerSlam 1993, when they teamed up with Tatanka to defeat Bam Bam Bigelow and The Headshrinkers.\n\nFrom their debut until January 1994, they would fire blanks in the arena with real guns, but then they received complaints from families that they were scaring children, which caused them to stop firing guns in the arenas. \n\nAlthough they continued to wrestle as a team, they did not appear together again on a WWF pay-per-view for over a year. In the fall of 1994, the Gunns began a feud with the Heavenly Bodies (Tom Prichard and Jimmy Del Ray). The Bodies attacked the Smoking Gunns and destroyed their cowboy hats. In return, the Gunns grabbed the Bodies' robes and tore off the wings. The teams had a series of matches at house shows, but the feud did not end with a blow off match. Instead, the teams faced off as part of a 5-on-5 elimination match at Survivor Series 1994. Billy and Bart joined forces with Lex Luger, Mabel, and Adam Bomb in a loss to Ted DiBiase's team of King Kong Bundy, Tatanka, Bam Bam Bigelow, and The Heavenly Bodies.\n\nThe Gunns were scheduled to compete in a tournament for the vacant tag-team title after Shawn Michaels and Diesel, the champions, began feuding. Injuries prevented the Gunns from entering, however. One day after their replacements, Bob \"Spark Plug\" Holly and the 1-2-3 Kid, won the belts, the Gunns returned to win the title on January 23, 1995. At WrestleMania XI, the Gunns faced Owen Hart and a mystery partner, who was revealed to be Yokozuna and lost the belts. They regained the title from Hart and Yokozuna on September 25 of that year.\n\nBy October 1995, Billy shaved his mustache and cut his long hair, but Bart kept his mustache and long hair until March 1996.\n\nThe Gunns held the title until February 15, 1996, when Billy was forced to undergo neck surgery, and The Smoking Gunns had to forfeit their title. Billy recovered quickly, and the Gunns won their final championship three months later by defeating The Godwinns at . Following this victory, Sunny left the Godwinns to manage the Gunns. Sunny was a heel manager and manipulated the Gunns, causing the brothers to argue. Sunny and Billy had an onscreen relationship, which bothered Bart. In addition to Sunny the team began to act more like heels, wrestling more aggressively, acting more arrogantly and teaming with other heels.\n\nSunny eventually caused the team's downfall, as she became the source of infighting between the two. When the Smoking Gunns lost their tag team title to Owen Hart and the British Bulldog in September 1996 at , Sunny left the team because she only wanted to be a manager for title holders (although she did not become Hart and Bulldog's manager). Billy, frustrated with losing both the title and Sunny, turned against Bart. Billy briefly feuded with Bart. After facing each other in tag team matches, the feud culminated in a one-on-one battle. During the match, Bart accidentally injured Billy's neck, forcing Billy to take some time off and drawing their feud to an abrupt halt. On June 9, 1997 Billy as Rockabilly defeated Bart on Raw Is War. Afterwards Bart left WWF.\n\nSoon after, Bart went to wrestle for the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), and when he returned to WWF in 1998, he was mainly involved in storylines with other NWA talent, and his opponents in the \"Brawl for All\" tournament, which he won. At Wrestlemania XV he lost to Butterbean in a boxing match. He was released in April 1999, however, before he could have another angle with Billy. They did, however, face each other in tag team match between the New Midnight Express and the New Age Outlaws at the 1998 King of The Ring.\n\nAfter the breakup, Billy was given the new gimmick of Rockabilly being managed by The Honky Tonk Man. It failed to catch on, however, and he became \"Badd Ass\" Billy Gunn and later won the Intercontinental Championship, the Hardcore Championship twice, and the 1999 King of the Ring tournament, in addition to eight more tag team titles. He formed The New Age Outlaws with Road Dogg. He was released by the company in November 2004 after serving 11 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102605", "title": "Jun Akiyama", "text": "Jun Akiyama\n\nIn junior high school, Akiyama practiced swimming and in senior high school he did freestyle amateur wrestling and judo. After high school he went to Senshu University in Tokyo. There he joined an amateur wrestling team that produced other professional wrestlers Riki Choshu, Hiroshi Hase and Manabu Nakanishi.\n\nAkiyama had great success as an amateur wrestler and was eventually scouted by All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW). He made his professional wrestling debut in September 1992 in a match against Kenta Kobashi, which he lost. He gradually rose in rank, starting to team up with Akira Taue as part of what remained of Jumbo Tsuruta's team called \"Tsuruta-Gun\", earning a trial series in January 1993. Afterwards, Akiyama started competition in tag teams. The tag team division soon became his specialty, teaming with Takao Omori against Kenta Kobashi and Mitsuharu Misawa. On more than one occasion, Dave Meltzer rated the matches they had together five stars. In January 1995, he split with Taue, and alongside Omori, won the All Asia Tag Team Championship, holding the belts for 1,076 days, until dropping them to Johnny Smith and Wolf Hawkfield on January 9, 1998 and also having the longest single reign in the history of those belts, even though sometimes he and Omori parted ways to team up with other wrestlers during that time. In early 1996, he was selected to be Misawa's partner after he split with Kobashi back in December. The two teamed together successfully and won the World Tag Team Championship during 1996. Akiyama and Misawa also competed in the World's Strongest Tag Determination League tournaments in 1996 and 1997, but lost in successive years to the team of Toshiaki Kawada and Akira Taue. Akiyama then began closing in on the Triple Crown Heavyweight Championship, first challenging Misawa in September 1997, again challenging Misawa in January 1998, Kobashi in July 1998 and Vader in January 2000. He was unsuccessful on all occasions, and never managed to capture the championship.\n\nAfter teaming with Misawa, Akiyama began teaming with Kenta Kobashi to form 'Burning'. The team won numerous tag team titles and competed against the teams of Mitsuharu Misawa and Yoshinari Ogawa, Toshiaki Kawada and Akira Taue, Yoshihiro Takayama and Takao Omori and others. Burning also won the World's Strongest Tag Determination League tournament in 1998 by defeating the team of Stan Hansen and Vader, and again in 1999 by defeating Akira Taue and Stan Hansen. Akiyama's last major victory in All Japan Pro Wrestling was on February 27, 2000, when he defeated former tag team partner Mitsuharu Misawa by pinfall in a heated and highly acclaimed contest. His last match happened on July 20, where he and Jun Izumida lost to Takao Omori and Yoshihiro Takayama, and after that, he and other 25 wrestlers left to follow-up Misawa to form Pro Wrestling NOAH.\n\nAfter a controversy in AJPW over the direction and management, he left the company with Mitsuharu Misawa, and half the roster, for Misawa's newly created Pro Wrestling Noah in mid-2000. Like many other members who made the jump, Akiyama gave himself a makeover, dropping his trademark blue and white trimmed boots and blue trunks for white boots and trunks and dyed his hair brown. He was quickly established as a top star of the company, winning both falls in the main event of NOAH's first show, choking out Kenta Kobashi in the second Noah show the night after he turned heel for this first time in his career, and becoming the second GHC Heavyweight Champion, He had stellar title defenses in New Japan Pro Wrestling against Yuji Nagata and Hiroshi Tanahashi. But a lack of worthy contenders eventually forced Noah to abandon his push, using Yoshinari Ogawa and Yoshihiro Takayama to transition the title back to Misawa. He continued work in Noah as a tag team competitor again to critical acclaim, winning the GHC Tag Team Championship with Akitoshi Saito.\n\nIn April 2004, he created the GHC Openweight Hardcore Championship to get back into singles competitions, and adapting an attitude manifested by wearing trunks that were odd colors for him. These motives helped put him back into contention for the GHC title against Kenta Kobashi, which was voted as Match of the Year. Late 2004 and much of 2005 were highlighted by his feud with protégé Makoto Hashi where Akiyama used \"tough love\" to toughen up young Hashi. On January 22, 2006, Akiyama defeated Akira Taue to become the GHC Heavyweight Champion for the second time, defending the title against Minoru Suzuki on March 5 and Masao Inoue on April 24. Akiyama was defeated by Naomichi Marufuji on Noah's September 9 Nippon Budokan show in his third defense of the GHC Heavyweight Title.\n\nFollowing his title loss to Naomichi Marufuji, Akiyama made good his promise to Tsuyoshi Kikuchi, going back to wearing blue trunks, and wrestling mainly in the undercard. He successfully redeemed himself by defeating Kikuchi and once again wore white trunks following that match. This put him back in line for success, which had him winning the tag titles a second time with Takeshi Rikio. However, due to an injury to Rikio, they were forced to vacate the titles. Akiyama competed at New Japan Pro Wrestling's third Annual \"Wrestle Kingdom in Tokyo Dome\" show, defeating Manabu Nakanishi.\n\nOn March 1, 2009, Akiyama defeated Kensuke Sasaki for the GHC Heavyweight Championship. On June 14, 2009, he was forced to vacate the title due to injury, in which left him out of action for the rest of the tour. After making his return later that year, Akiyama continued to wrestle sporadically whilst struggling with back injuries and the burden of post traumatic stress syndrome, following the death of Mitsuharu Misawa.\n\nAkiyama participated in the first Global League, achieving a total of eight points with four wins and just one loss. As the Block B winner, he faced Block A winner Yoshihiro Takayama in the final match on May 2. Takayama won the tournament by pinning Akiyama with an Everest German suplex.\n\nIn April 2011, Akiyama and Akitoshi Saito won the 2011 Global Tag League.\n\nOn October 23, 2011, Akiyama defeated Suwama to finally win All Japan's Triple Crown Heavyweight Championship, the belt he couldn't win during his 8-year run with the promotion before leaving for Pro-Wrestling NOAH. Shortly after winning the Triple Crown, Akiyama adopted a new look as he shaved his head bald. On January 22, Akiyama and Saito defeated Bad Intentions (Giant Bernard and Karl Anderson) to win the GHC Tag Team Championship. He has successfully defended the Triple Crown against Taiyō Kea (twice), Takao Omori and Keiji Mutoh. Akiyama lost the Triple Crown to Masakatsu Funaki on August 26, 2012 in a match that lasted less than five minutes.\n\nOn December 3, 2012, it was reported that Akiyama had threatened to not re-sign with Noah after his contract expires in January 2013, when the promotion decided to release Kenta Kobashi from his contract. On December 19, Noah confirmed that Akiyama would be leaving the promotion following December 24. On December 24, Akiyama, working as \"Mr. Christmas\", defeated his trainee Atsushi Aoki in both men's final Noah match.\n\nOn January 26, 2013, Akiyama, Atsushi Aoki, Go Shiozaki, Kotaro Suzuki and Yoshinobu Kanemaru, all of whom had quit Noah at the same time, announced that they had joined All Japan Pro Wrestling, reforming the \"Burning\" stable, which he previously formed with Kenta Kobashi in the late 1990s. On March 17, Akiyama and Shiozaki defeated Get Wild (Manabu Soya and Takao Omori) to win the World Tag Team Championship. On April 29, Akiyama defeated Kai in the finals to win the 2013 Champion Carnival. On May 11, Akiyama made a one-night return to Noah to take part in Kenta Kobashi's retirement match at Final Burning in Budokan, where he, Kobashi, Keiji Mutoh and Kensuke Sasaki defeated Go Shiozaki, Kenta, Maybach Taniguchi and Yoshinobu Kanemaru. On June 30, Akiyama received his shot at the Triple Crown Heavyweight Championship, which he had earned by winning the Champion Carnival, but was defeated by the defending champion, Suwama. On July 5, following a mass exodus led by Keiji Mutoh, it was announced that Akiyama, along with the rest of Burning, had signed an exclusive contract with All Japan. On October 22, Akiyama and Shiozaki lost the World Tag Team Championship to Evolution (Joe Doering and Suwama). During the next week, Burning was hit hard with Shiozaki, Aoki and Suzuki all announcing that they were quitting the stable. On January 26, 2014, Akiyama and Kanemaru defeated former stablemates Aoki and Suzuki to win the All Asia Tag Team Championship. Following the win, Akiyama, attempting to become the first wrestler in 15 years to hold the All Asia and the World Tag Team Championships simultaneously, formed another tag team named \"Wild Burning\" with Takao Omori. Akiyama and Omori received their title shot on February 8, but were defeated by the defending champions, Joe Doering and Suwama. On April 29, Akiyama and Kanemaru lost the All Asia Tag Team Championship to Keisuke Ishii and Shigehiro Irie at a Dramatic Dream Team event. Later that same event, Akiyama \"accidentally\" won the Ironman Heavymetalweight Championship, after laying his arm on it during a backstage interview.\n\nOn June 4, it was reported that Akiyama was taking over as the new president of All Japan, effective July 1. All Japan confirmed the report with an official announcement the following day. Akiyama runs the new All Japan Pro Wrestling through a company named Zen Nihon Puroresu Innovation, while also serving as the promotion's representative director. On June 15, Akiyama was placed in a decision match to determine a new Triple Crown Heavyweight Champion, but was defeated by Takao Omori. On June 28, Akiyama and Omori defeated Joe Doering and Suwama to win the World Tag Team Championship. After successfully defending the World Tag Team Championship against Akebono and Yutaka Yoshie on October 22, Akiyama and Omori vacated the title the following day in time for the 2014 World's Strongest Tag Determination League. They regained the title by winning the tournament on December 6, defeating Go Shiozaki and Kento Miyahara in the finals. Wild Burning's second reign ended on March 22, 2015, when they were defeated by Akebono and Yutaka Yoshie. On September 26, Akiyama defeated Akebono in the finals to win the 2015 Ōdō Tournament. On November 1, Akyama defeated Akebono to win the Triple Crown Heavyweight Championship for the second time. He lost the title to Suwama on January 2, 2016. On August 11, Akiyama made a rare appearance outside of AJPW, when he took part in an event held by its splinter promotion Wrestle-1. Akiyama teamed with fellow AJPW wrestlers Naoya Nomura and Yuma Aoyagi to defeat the Wrestle-1 trio of Keiji Mutoh, Koji Doi and Kumagoro in an interpromotional six-man tag team match.\n\nOn March 12, 2017, Akiyama defeated Kenso to win the Gaora TV Championship for the first time. His GAORA TV Title reign would mostly be in the midcard in comedy or gimmick-heavy matches as Akiyama wanted to settle-down into a midcard role. During his tenure as TV Champion, Akiyama would team with Takao Omori to once-more win the AJPW World Tag-Team Championship in October 2017 to celebrate both men's 25th anniversaries in wrestling. The match, which was originally supposed to be against reigning champions Strong BJ (Daisuke Sekimoto and Yuji Okabayashi) of Big Japan Pro Wrestling, was changed before the show due to Okabayashi suffering a major shoulder injury and being forced to vacate. Big Japan's Ryuji Ito filled-in for Okabayashi. Wild Burning would lose the tag titles on January 3rd, 2018 to 2017 World's Strongest Tag Determination League winners, Suwama and Shuji Ishikawa. With Takao Omori going down injured around this time, Akiyama would revisit his old partnership with Yuji Nagata to challenge for the All Asia Tag Team Championship, held by NEXTREAM's Naoya Nomura and Yuma Aoyagi. The match, scheduled for February 3rd, would be changed due to Yuma suffering a broken ankle and vacating the titles. Ryoji Sai filled in as Naoya Nomura's partner in a losing effort to Nagata and Akiyama. When Takao Omori returned from injury he too chose to revisit an old partnership - teaming with Manabu Nakanishi in a Wild Child reunion to unsuccessfully challenge both men's regular partners on March 25th. Despite saying in 2017 he wanted to take a step back from tournaments and main event titles, Akiyama participated in the 2018 Champion Carnival, presumably because of the large amount of injuries the rest of the roster was facing. In the B Block, Akiyama went 4-3 in the Champion Carnival, with a loss on the final block night to NOAH representative Naomichi Marufuji costing him the chance to advance to the finals. On July 15, Akiyama's 490-day reign as GAORA TV Champion came to an end in a technical bout against TAJIRI who cheated to win. Two weeks later, on July 29, Akiyama and Nagata would lose their All Asia Tag Team Championship to Naoya Nomura and a fully healed Yuma Aoyagi.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102617", "title": "The Faces of Fear", "text": "The Faces of Fear\n\nThe Faces of Fear was a professional wrestling tag team of The Barbarian and Meng in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) that existed between 1996 and 1999. The two were first paired together in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) as part of The Heenan Family, a villainous faction, where Meng was known as Haku. In WCW, they teamed together regularly as members of the Dungeon of Doom. They appeared on several WCW pay-per-view events but did not receive a push from the promotion and were unsuccessful in their matches for the World Tag Team Championship. The team split up after The Barbarian turned on Meng in 1998 and they feuded with each other throughout the year. They briefly reunited in 1999 before Barbarian turned on Meng again and the team dissolved.\n\nThe Barbarian and Haku began teaming in the WWF as early as 1990, as they were both managed by Bobby Heenan. They feuded with The Big Bossman, interfering in several of his matches to attack him. They made their only pay-per-view appearance with the WWF at WrestleMania VII, where they lost to The Rockers. They also appeared on several episodes of \"WWF Prime Time Wrestling\" in 1991. They faced the Legion of Doom on April 15 but lost when Haku accidentally kicked The Barbarian. The team's miscommunication was a problem again on the July 22 episode when The Barbarian accidentally kicked Haku in a match against The Bushwhackers, causing Haku to get pinned. The Barbarian and Haku were successful the following week, however, when they defeated Sato and Mr. Fuji. The pair left the WWF, but they later teamed in New Japan Pro Wrestling. They challenged The Hell Raisers for the IWGP Tag Team Championship but were unable to win the belts.\n\nThe Barbarian was reunited with Fifita, who was now wrestling under the ring name Meng, in WCW. Wrestling under the team name Faces of Fear, they were both members of Kevin Sullivan's Dungeon of Doom, a heel stable formed to oppose Hulk Hogan. The Barbarian and Meng's first major appearance together was at Uncensored 1996, when they competed as part of the Alliance To End Hulkamania, a partnership between the Dungeon of Doom and the Four Horsemen, another heel stable. In a two-versus-eight Doomsday Cage match, Hogan and Randy Savage defeated the Alliance To End Hulkamania.\n\nTwo months later, at Slamboree 1996, The Barbarian and Meng were on opposing teams in a \"Lethal Lottery\" tournament that saw partners supposedly chosen at random. The Barbarian teamed with Diamond Dallas Page (subbing for an injured Bobby Walker) in a victory over Meng and Hugh Morrus. The Faces of Fear were not pushed, and they received few high-profile matches in 1996. They competed at WCW's Hog Wild pay-per-view on August 10, but the match was televised on free WCW programming instead of the pay-per-view broadcast. At this event, they teamed with Kevin Sullivan to defeat Joe Gomez, Jim Powers and Mark Starr.\n\nThe relationship between the Dungeon of Doom and the Four Horsemen broke down as a result of Kevin Sullivan's feud with Horsemen member Chris Benoit. As a result, the Faces of Fear were booked to face Benoit and Steve McMichael, another member of the Four Horsemen, at Halloween Havoc 1996. Benoit pinned Meng to win the match for the Horsemen team. The Barbarian and Meng's next major appearance was at Starrcade 1996, when they faced Scott Hall and Kevin Nash, who were members of another rival heel stable known as the New World Order. Hall and Nash's WCW World Tag Team Championship was on the line, but the Faces of Fear were unable to win the belts, as Nash pinned The Barbarian.\n\nAt SuperBrawl VII on February 23, 1997, the Faces of Fear competed in a Three Way match. They faced The Public Enemy and Harlem Heat but lost when Rocco Rock from The Public Enemy pinned The Barbarian. At Fall Brawl 1997, The Barbarian and Meng faced Wrath and Mortis. Because Wrath and Mortis were part of a heel group, WCW had the Faces of Fear compete as faces during the match. Wrath and Mortis won the match, as Wrath pinned Meng for the victory. The Faces of Fear were successful at World War 3 1997, however, when they defeated the team of Glacier and Ernest Miller.\n\nThe Faces of Fear eventually split up, as Meng turned face. The former partners faced each other at Road Wild 1998; The Barbarian had heel manager Jimmy Hart in his corner. Meng won the match, but The Barbarian, Hugh Morrus and Hart attacked him after the match. Hart later convinced The Barbarian and Meng to reconcile, however, and they wrestled as a tag team again as part of Hart's First Family stable. The Faces of Fear entered a tournament for the WCW World Tag Team Championship in early 1999 after an injury to co-champion Rick Steiner caused the belts to be vacated. According to the rules of the tournament, teams had to lose two matches before they were eliminated. The Faces of Fear won one match in the tournament, defeating the team of David Taylor and Fit Finlay on the January 25 episode of \"WCW Monday Nitro\". However, they were eliminated after losses to the team of Mike Enos and Bobby Duncum, Jr. and the team of Horace Hogan and Brian Adams. In the latter match, The Barbarian attacked Meng, which caused the loss and led to the team splitting up for good.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102623", "title": "Hans von Zwiedineck-Südenhorst", "text": "Hans von Zwiedineck-Südenhorst\n\nHans von Zwiedineck-Südenhorst (14 April 1845 – 22 November 1906) was a German historian.\n\nHe was born at Frankfurt-am-Main and studied at the University of Graz, where he became a professor in 1885. He died in Graz.\n\nSüdenhorst's principal writings are:\n\nHe also edited the \"Bibliothek deutscher Geschichte,\" writing for this series, \"Deutsche Geschichte im Zeitalter der Gründung des preussischen Königtums\" (Stuttgart, 1887–94); and \"Deutsche Geschichte von der Auflösung des alten bis zur Gründung des neuen Reiches\" (Stuttgart, 1897-1905). He completed A. Wolf's \"Oesterreich unter Maria Theresia, Josef II. und Leopold, II.\" (Berlin, 1882–84), and edited the \"Zeitschrift für allgemeine Geschichte\" (Stuttgart, 1884–88).\n"}
{"id": "2102635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102635", "title": "Kalaloch, Washington", "text": "Kalaloch, Washington\n\nKalaloch is an unincorporated resort area entirely within Olympic National Park in western Jefferson County, Washington, United States. Kalaloch accommodations (lodge, cabins, and campgrounds) are on a bluff overlooking the Pacific Ocean, west of U.S. Highway 101 on the Olympic Peninsula, north of the reservation of the Quinault Indian Nation.\n\nThe name \"Kalaloch\" is a corruption of the Quinault term \"k'–E–le–ok\", pronounced Kq–â-lā'–ȯk, meaning \"a good place to land\", \"canoe launch and landing\", or \"sheltered landing\". The site was one of the few safe landing sites for dugout canoes between the Quinault River and Hoh River.\n\nArtifacts discovered in Olympic National Park are evidence early humans inhabited the Olympic Peninsula 6,000 to 12,000 years ago. Today eight tribes (Hoh, Jamestown S'Klallam, Elwha Klallam, Makah, Port Gamble, S'Klallam, Quileute, Quinault, and Skokomish) live in reservations along the shores. In 1855 and 1856 Olympic Peninsula tribes ceded their lands and waters to the federal government.\n\nIn 1889, Washington became a state. President Grover Cleveland created the Olympic Forest Reserve in 1897, which was renamed to Olympic National Forest in 1907. Charles W. Becker, Sr., purchased a coastal plot just south of where Kalaloch Creek meets the Pacific Ocean in 1925. Becker used milled lumber from driftwood logs that washed up on the beach to build the main lodge and cabins.\n\nTo preserve some of Washington's primeval forest lands, in 1938 President Franklin D. Roosevelt designated as Olympic National Park. Two years later, President Roosevelt added to the park. President Harry S. Truman added of coastal wilderness to the Park in 1953, including the Kalaloch area. In 1976 the Olympic National Park was designated as an International Biosphere Reserve. The National Park Service purchased the Becker property in 1978 and renamed it Kalaloch Lodge. Olympic National Park was designated in 1981 as a World Heritage Site. In 1988, Congress approved the designation of 95 percent of the park as the Olympic Wilderness. \n\nKalaloch weather is influenced by prevailing Pacific winds and two temperate rain forests, the Hoh rainforest and the Quinault rainforest. Annual rainfall at Kalaloch is measured in feet: on average, fall annually.\n\nAbout of beach in the Olympic National Park provide beachcombing opportunities. At Kalaloch, seven area beach trails lead to coastal hikes and Kalaloch Creek. Fishing possibilities at Kalaloch include surf perch, salmon, or native trout, or at low tide visitors may dig for razor clams. Bald eagles, black-legged kittiwakes, red-throated loons, black scoters, and brown pelicans are among birdwatchers' sightings at Kalaloch. From Kalaloch bluffs, whale watchers may see migratory gray whales, and sea lions, harbor porpoise, harbor seals, sea otters and orcas may also be spotted.\n\nThe National Park Service staffs a ranger station in the area during the summer.\n\nKalaloch offers three types of accommodations: lodge, cabins, and campground.\n\nKalaloch Lodge has been named \"Best Northwest Escapes winner for Best Sunsets and Best storm Watching\" by Seattle NBC affiliate KING-TV.\n\nForty cabins are available, including six on the bluff overlooking the ocean. The Kalaloch Lodge proprietors note, \"In order to enhance your enjoyment of the surrounding natural beauty, all Kalaloch Lodge Cabins do NOT have in-room phones, WiFi/Internet access, or televisions.\"\n\nKalaloch Campground, with 166 camp sites, is the only campground in Olympic National Park accepting summer reservations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102636", "title": "1999–2000 UEFA Cup", "text": "1999–2000 UEFA Cup\n\nThe 1999–2000 UEFA Cup season was the 29th edition of the UEFA Cup competition. The final took place at Parken Stadium in Copenhagen and was won by Galatasaray, who defeated Arsenal in the final. The game was scoreless through the first ninety minutes and stayed that way through thirty minutes of extra time. The match went on to penalty kicks in which Gheorghe Popescu scored the winning goal to win the cup. Galatasaray won the cup without losing a single game. The competition was marred by violence involving Turkish and English hooligans in the semi-finals and the final, in particular the fatal stabbings of Leeds United fans Kevin Speight and Christopher Loftus by Galatasaray fans in Istanbul.\n\nParma were the defending champions, but were eliminated by Werder Bremen in the fourth round. This team entered in first round due to elimination in the third qualifying round of the UEFA Champions League\n\nIt was the first season of the new format UEFA Cup; it had absorbed the now defunct Cup Winners' Cup to include domestic cup winners, and now featured an additional knockout round. This season's champions qualified for the 2001 FIFA Club World Championship, which was never held. So far, Galatasaray are the only UEFA Cup champions to qualify for a Club World Cup.\n\nA total of 142 teams from 49 UEFA associations participated in the 1999–2000 UEFA Cup. Associations are allocated places according to their 1999–2000 UEFA league coefficient.\n\nBelow is the qualification scheme for the 2000–01 UEFA Cup:\n\n\nA UEFA Cup place is vacated when a team qualify for both the Champions League and the UEFA Cup, or qualify for the UEFA Cup by more than one method. When a place is vacated, it is redistributed within the national association by the following rules:\n\nThe labels in the parentheses show how each team qualified for the place of its starting round:\n\n\"Udinese 2–2 Slavia Prague on aggregate. Slavia Prague won on away goals rule.\"\n\n\"Galatasaray won 2–0 on aggregate.\"\n\n\"Mallorca won 4–2 on aggregate.\"\n\n\"Werder Bremen won 3–2 on aggregate.\"\n\n\"Leeds United won 1–0 on aggregate.\"\n\n\"Arsenal won 6–3 on aggregate.\"\n\n\"Celta Vigo won 4–1 on aggregate.\"\n\n\"Lens won 6–4 on aggregate.\"\n\n\"Leeds United won 4–2 on aggregate.\"\n\n\"Galatasaray won 6–2 on aggregate.\"\n\n\"Arsenal won 6–2 on aggregate.\"\n\n\"Lens won 2–1 on aggregate.\"\n\n\"Arsenal won 3–1 on aggregate.\"\n\n\"Galatasaray won 4–2 on aggregate.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102647", "title": "Huston Plan", "text": "Huston Plan\n\nThe Huston Plan was a 43-page report and outline of proposed security operations put together by White House aide Tom Charles Huston in 1970. It came to light during the 1973 Watergate hearings headed by Senator Sam Ervin (a Democrat from North Carolina).\nThe impetus for this report was President Richard Nixon's desire for coordination of domestic intelligence on purported 'left-wing radicals' and the counterculture-era anti-war movement in general. Huston had been assigned as White House liaison to the Interagency Committee on Intelligence (ICI), a group chaired by J. Edgar Hoover, then Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director. Huston worked closely with William C. Sullivan, Hoover's assistant, in drawing up the options listed in what eventually became the document known as the Huston Plan.\nThe plan called for domestic burglary, illegal electronic surveillance and opening the mail of domestic \"radicals\". At one time it also called for the creation of camps in Western states where anti-war protesters would be detained.\nIn mid-July 1970 Nixon ratified the proposals and they were submitted as a document to the directors of the FBI, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) and the National Security Agency (NSA).\nOnly Hoover objected to the plan, and gained the support of then Attorney General of the United States John Mitchell to pressure Nixon to rescind the plan. Despite the ultimate decision by the President to revoke the Huston Plan, several of its provisions were implemented.\n\nAfter the Huston Plan, the FBI lowered the age of campus informants, thereby expanding surveillance of American college students as sought through the Plan. In 1971, the FBI reinstated its use of mail covers and continued to submit names to the CIA mail program.\n\nAs details of the Huston Plan unfolded during the Watergate Hearings, it came to be seen as part of what Attorney General Mitchell referred to as \"White House horrors\". This included the Plumbers Unit, the proposed fire-bombing of the Brookings Institution, the 1971 burglary of the office of the psychiatrist of Daniel Ellsberg, the creation of a White House enemies list, and the use of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to punish those deemed to be enemies. \nThe Huston Plan was also investigated by the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, chaired by Senator Frank Church in 1976, into activities of the CIA and abuses of domestic intelligence gathering.\n\nThe Huston Plan appears (and is explained in on-screen text) in a comedy sketch on the sixteenth episode of the second season of \"Saturday Night Live\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2102661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102661", "title": "Oenothera biennis", "text": "Oenothera biennis\n\nOenothera biennis (common evening-primrose, evening star, sundrop, weedy evening primrose, German rampion, hog weed, King's cure-all, or fever-plant.) is a species of \"Oenothera\" native to eastern and central North America, from Newfoundland west to Alberta, southeast to Florida, and southwest to Texas, and widely naturalized elsewhere in temperate and subtropical regions. Evening primrose oil (EPO) is produced from the plant.\n\n\"Oenothera biennis\" has a life span of two years (biennial) growing to tall. The leaves are lanceolate, long and broad, produced in a tight rosette the first year, and spirally on a stem the second year.\n\nBlooming lasts from late spring to late summer. The flowers are hermaphrodite, produced on a tall spike and only last until the following noon. They open visibly fast every evening producing an interesting spectacle, hence the name \"evening primrose.\"\n\nThe blooms are yellow, diameter, with four bilobed petals. The flower structure has an invisible to the naked eye bright nectar guide pattern. This pattern is apparent under ultraviolet light and visible to its pollinators, moths, butterflies, and bees.\n\nThe fruit is a capsule long and broad, containing numerous long seeds, released when the capsule splits into four sections at maturity.\n\nThe seeds of the plant are important food for birds,\nand it is a larval host for both the primrose moth and the white-lined sphinx moth.\n\nThe evening primrose was introduced to Europe in the early 17th century as an ornamental plant in botanical gardens. Its possible applications in the kitchen and as medicinal plant were only discovered more than 100 years later. However, indigenous tribes in North America (namely the Cherokee, Iroquois, Ojibwe and Potawatomi) were using the plant as food and medicinal crop for hundreds of years. Today, the evening primrose is mainly known as garden plant and as medicinal plant in specialized sectors. However, almost all parts of the evening primrose are edible and medically or cosmetically applicable. This includes the roots, leaves, blossoms, flower buds and seeds.\n\nVirtually all plant parts are edible. In general, the taste of the plant is mild but sometimes there can be a rough aftertaste.\n\nThe roots can be eaten raw or cooked like potatoes. They can be used from the young plant, from September until the first flowering stem is developed. If soaked in water and boiled the taste is similar to black salsify root.\n\nThe leaves of the evening primrose can be used from April to June when the plant is not flowering yet. They can be eaten raw in salads or cooked like spinach or in soups. Several Native American tribes made tea from the evening primrose leaves and used it as a dietary aid. Evening primrose leaves contain flavonoids, mucilage, tannins, sugar, resin and phytosterols.\n\nThe flowering stems are preferably used when they are still young in June. They have to be peeled and can then be eaten raw or fried. The flower buds are denoted as a delicacy and can be harvested from June to September. They are mild in taste and can be eaten raw in salads, pickled in oil, fried or in soups. The flowers themselves are edible as well and have a sweet taste. They can be used as a garnish for salads but also in desserts. When the fruits are still green in August and September they can be used similar to the flowering stems.\n\nThe seeds have a protein content of about 15%, an oil content of 24% and contain about 43% cellulose. The proteins are especially rich in the sulphur-containing amino acids methionine and cysteine, as well as in tryptophan - all essential amino acids. There is a relative deficiency in lysine and four other essential amino acids. The nutrient of greatest interest is gamma-linolenic acid (GLA), a polyunsaturated fatty acid. For this reason evening primrose oil is a widely sold dietary supplement. The whole seeds can also be used similar to sesame roasted and in pastries.\n\nThe oil of mature seeds contains approximately 7–10% GLA. GLA, also referred to as C18:3-ω6 fatty acid, is not an essential fatty acid because it can readily be created from linoleic acid (C18:2-ω6). GLA is a preliminary stage in the production of prostaglandin, which is essential for the proper functioning of a cell. Symptoms and diseases like endogenous eczema, the Sjögren-syndrome, premenstrual syndrome (PMS), polyarthritis, multiple sclerosis and menopausal symptoms can be induced by a prostaglandin shortage. In theory, an additional intake of GLA might help to cure these symptoms.\n\nThe Cochrane Collaboration conducted a meta-analysis of clinical trials studying the effect of orally administered EPO on eczema and concluded that there was no effect. The Mayo Clinic examined evidence for the safety and effectiveness of evening primrose for several conditions; it was considered that there was \"good evidence\" (grade B, vs \"strong evidence\", grade A) that it produced a moderate improvement in eczema. Grade C, \"unclear\", evidence for benefit is listed for other conditions. Research has shown a lack of significant beneficial effects on heart functions. Many conditions for which evening primrose oil is a traditional remedy or there is a theory suggesting efficacy are listed by the Mayo Clinic without comment.\n\nThere are conflicting opinions and evidence for the medicinal effects of GLA. The active constituent of EPO, which has been promoted to treat ailments including breast pain and eczema; such marketing was described by the \"British Medical Journal\" (BMJ) as ethically dubious – the substance was likely to be remembered as \"a remedy for which there is no disease\". Another single source suggests that Evening Primrose Oil with adjuvant vitamin E, may reduce breast pain. The BMJ said in 2003 that it was of no use in atopic dermatitis. The American Cancer Society said in 2010 that there was very little evidence for its effectiveness as an anti-cancer agent, for which it is sometimes promoted, and \"neither GLA nor other GLA-rich supplements (such as evening primrose oil) have been convincingly shown to be useful in preventing or treating any other health conditions.\"\n\nEPO is considered likely to be safe in recommended doses. It may increase the risk of bleeding, a concern for patients with bleeding disorders or taking drugs that may increase bleeding. The Mayo Clinic recommends caution in people with seizure disorders or mania, and by pregnant or breastfeeding women, and publishes a long list of possible side-effects.\n\nThe whole plant and especially the leaves were boiled to tea by Native American tribes as a stimulant to treat laziness and against “over fatness”. The tribes also used the roots externally to treat piles and boils. Additionally, they were chewed and rubbed onto the muscles to improve strength.\n\nThe knowledge of agricultural practices in the cultivation of evening primrose is relatively new and only pertain to the commercialized production of evening primrose seed oil. Information of agricultural practices for the production of root vegetable or other plant parts is not known yet.\n\nThe evening primrose prefers sunny, and arid places with loamy soil and occurs below 700 meters above sea level. One important prerequisite is to meet adequate nitrogen requirements. While too high nitrogen levels could lead to a quality and quantity decline of the oil content in the seeds, moderate nitrogen levels lead to increased seed quality and quantity. Since the evening primrose is a light-dependent germinator it is important that the seeds are not planted too deep into the soil (0.5–1.0 cm deep). The cultivation of evening primrose is thus suitable for no-till farming, but the plants require an intense mechanical weed control. The tiny seeds (thousand kernel weight: 0.3–0.7 g) need approximately two to three weeks to germinate and are therefore very susceptible to the outgrowth of weeds.\n\nEvening primrose seeds can be sown in the first half of April (spring seeds) or from mid-July to mid-August (autumn seeds). The time of harvest is approximately 75 to 80 days (spring seeds) or 100 days (autumn seeds) after flowering, and clearly influenced by the plant variety, climate conditions, soil fertility and sowing time. The population development and thus seed maturation of the evening primrose is very heterogeneous which is a rather difficult production factor.\n\nThere is not much water needed during the vegetation period. A study has shown, that the irrigation with salt water could increase the oil yield and quality in evening primrose seeds. This might be a great opportunity especially in regions with limited water resources. Thus, the evening primrose could be a valuable alternative oil crop in arid regions.\n\nFinally, the cultivation of evening primrose requires a proper field management otherwise the plant can become invasive. If the seeds are used for pharmaceutical purposes it is also very important to grow the evening primrose without any pesticides to avoid any chemical residues.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102664", "title": "Francis Bowes Sayre Sr.", "text": "Francis Bowes Sayre Sr.\n\nFrancis Bowes Sayre Sr. (April 30, 1885 – March 29, 1972) was a professor at Harvard Law School, High Commissioner of the Philippines, and a son-in-law of President Woodrow Wilson.\n\nHe was born on April 30, 1885. He graduated from Williams College in 1909 and Harvard Law School in 1912. At the start of his career, Sayre worked for Wilfred Grenfell's medical mission in Newfoundland and Labrador, and as an assistant prosecutor in the office of the New York County District Attorney .\n\nOn November 25, 1913, Sayre married Jessie Woodrow Wilson (1887–1933), the daughter of President Woodrow Wilson, in a ceremony at the White House. In 1914 he began work as an assistant to the president of Williams College. He served on the faculty at Harvard Law School from 1917 to 1933, and he received his J.D.S. degree from Harvard in 1918.\n\nHe later served as foreign affairs advisor to the government of King Vajiravudh of Siam as successor to American Foreign Affairs Adviser Edward Henry Strobel, Jens Westengard and Eldon James; Assistant Secretary of State, High Commissioner of the Philippines, and U.S. representative to the United Nations Trusteeship Council. While Sayre was Siam's foreign affairs advisor, he was appointed by King Prajadhipok as Siam's representative on the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague. He was awarded the Grand Cross of the Crown of Siam, and was the second American advisor to be awarded the title \"Phya Kalyanamaitri\" or \"the beautiful in friendship.\" The first American Adviser in Foreign Affairs, also a Harvard law professor, was Edward Henry Strobel.\n\nSayre's immediate subordinate in his capacity of Assistant Secretary of State was Alger Hiss.\n\nHe died on March 29, 1972, and was buried at Washington National Cathedral.\n\nSayre's son, Francis B. Sayre Jr., (1915–2008) was the dean of the National Cathedral in Washington from 1951 until his retirement in 1978. His daughter Eleanor (1916–2001) was an expert on the Spanish painter Goya and served from 1945 to 1984 as a curator at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. \n\nThe Sayre Highway stretching from Cagayan de Oro City to Kabacan, Cotabato in the Philippines was named after him, formerly named Route 3, since he was the one who spearheaded its construction.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102671", "title": "Aston Martin DB6", "text": "Aston Martin DB6\n\nThe Aston Martin DB6 is a grand tourer made by British car manufacturer Aston Martin and was produced from September 1965 to January 1971. \n\nThe DB6 succeeded the Aston Martin DB5 and featured improved aerodynamics and specification over its predecessor.\n\nAfter Aston Martin rejected proposals for a replacement for its DB5 from Touring of Milan, the decision was made to focus on their own development car, registered 4 YMC. Wind tunnel testing, begun in February 1965, showed development was necessary to counteract a tendency toward aerodynamic lift [a result of the fastback styling] causing reduced rear-wheel traction at high speed. Final development phases relied upon DB5 chassis, suitably lengthened and titled \"MP 219\", with rear lip-spoiler and abbreviated Kammback tail Aston Martin previously incorporated in sports-racing prototypes. The decision was made to produce \"MP 219\" as the Aston Martin DB6 although the prototype de Dion rear axle was rejected, Aston's soldiering on with its live-axle configuration reducing time to market, cost and complexity.\n\nIntroduced at the 1965 London Motor Show, the DB6 was already a dated design notable as the first model engineered following a factory relocation from Feltham to Newport Pagnell. The DB6 has a resemblance to its predecessor, the DB5; with the most noticeable differences being its wheelbase, side profile, split front and rear bumpers and rear panels incorporating the Kammback tail rear end. The tail, combined with the relocated rear-axle and the lengthened wheelbase, provide more stability at high speed. Though fashionable — the rear-end Kamm-styled design was similar to the Ferrari 250 — it did not prove popular with conservative, tradition oriented Aston clientele when the DB6 was introduced. Performance was satisfactory: road-tests of the day observed top speed of the Vantage model between to , with John Bolster aboard a Vantage spec DB6 reaching a two-way average of .\n\nThe DB6 continued with then high-tech Armstrong Selectaride cockpit-adjustable rear shock absorbers as available on the DB5. Other highlights include adopting front-door quarter windows, an oil-cooler air scoop low on the front valance, quarter-bumpers at each corner, revised tail-lamp clusters; additionally the spoiler affected the overall proportions of the DB6, with an increase in length by approximately two inches.\n\nOther notable changes:\n\nAnother major change from the DB5 to DB6 was abandonment of the full \"superleggera\" construction technique patented by coachbuilders/stylist Touring of Milan. For later DB6's construction, the more common body-on-platform technique was used; this was primarily due to the extended rear requiring a stronger and more rigid design utilizing a folded sheet metal supporting structure. Surprisingly the modifications combined to add only seventeen pounds weight compared to the DB5.\n\nThe DB6 is powered by the twin-overhead camshaft (DOHC), in-line six-cylinder Aston Martin engine designed by Tadek Marek. The engine, continued with its triple SU carb setup producing at 5,500 rpm; the Vantage engine option is quoted at against the of the DB5. Although the weight of the DB6 was approximately heavier than its predecessor, the stability at high speed, added luggage capacity and comforts for passengers in this grand tourer more than offset any imperceptible loss in performance caused by additional weight. The rear suspension used helical coil springs with ride control that was adjustable from inside the car.\n\n\nThe DB6 Mark II was announced on 21 August 1969, identified by distinct flares on front and rear wheel arches and wider tyres on 1/2\" wider wheels. Available as an optional extra for the Mark II was AE Brico electronic fuel-injection combined with the higher compression ratio cylinder head. The Mark II edition shared many parts with the then-new DBS.\n\nAs with previous Aston Martin models, a high-power DB6 Vantage was offered. It was equipped with three Weber carburetors and higher compression ratio cylinder head.\n\nA convertible body style was also offered, named the Volante. This was introduced at the 1966 London Motor Show. The DB6-based Volante succeeded the earlier (1965–1966) Volantes which were built on the last of the DB5 chassis' and were known as \"short chassis\" Volantes. Of the later DB6-based Volantes just 140 were built, including 29 high-output Vantage Volante versions, highly prized by collectors.\n\nCharles, Prince of Wales, owns a DB6-based Volante MkII that has been converted to run on bioethanol. The car was given to him by his mother on his 21st birthday.\n\nA total of six or seven DB6 Shooting-brakes were produced by British coachbuilder Harold Radford, with three more by FLM Panelcraft The engine options (282 and 325 hp) were the same as for the DB6 Saloon.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102676", "title": "Sky Whirl", "text": "Sky Whirl\n\nSky Whirl was the name of two amusement rides which featured triple Ferris wheels. Both debuted in 1976 at the California's Great America (in Santa Clara, California) and Six Flags Great America (in Gurnee, Illinois) amusement parks. The ride in Santa Clara closed in 1997, and the ride in Gurnee closed in 2000. Two additional triple Ferris wheels were later built for the Seibu-en and Lotte World parks in Japan (operating between 1985 and 2004) and South Korea (1989–97), respectively. All four rides were manufactured by Waagner-Biro and brokered by Intamin. \n\nThe ride resembled a huge tree topped with three arms; the arms rotated as a unit on an axis canted from vertical. Each arm was tipped with a rotating wheel, or \"spider\", and each spider carried 12 passenger cages. Due to the off-vertical axis, two wheels spun in the air in a near-vertical plane while the third was on the ground stationary in a horizontal plane, loading and unloading passengers from all the cars on that wheel simultaneously.\n\nIntamin marketed the ride as the \"Tree Triple Wheel\" and advertised a capacity of 2,000 customers per hour. The ride had a peak height of and required a circular footprint in diameter.\n\nSky Whirl was developed from the earlier Giant Wheel, a double wheel design that Intamin had first installed at Hersheypark in 1973. Intamin's Giant Wheel was in turn inspired by an earlier double wheel design patented in 1966 to address the slow loading of conventional Ferris wheel designs. That first double wheel debuted with Astroworld as the Astrowheel in 1968. The Sky Whirl design was commissioned by Marriott for both of its Great America theme parks. Because these parks (both Great America parks, Hersheypark, and Astroworld) were all designed by the same firm, R. Duell and Associates, some common design elements were carried through each park, including the double/triple-wheel designs.\n\nBoth rides debuted with the opening of the Great America parks in 1976. At the time the theme park in Santa Clara opened on March 21, 1976, it was billed as having the world's first triple Ferris wheel. The Gurnee park opened on May 29.\n\nThe Santa Clara ride, which appeared in the 1994 movie \"Beverly Hills Cop III\" as \"The Spider\", was later renamed Triple Wheel before it closed in 1997. At Santa Clara, Sky Whirl was replaced by the Invertigo roller coaster. The identical Gurnee ride closed in 2000 and was replaced by Déjà Vu for the 2001 season.\n\nTwo other triple wheels were produced for Asian clients: Seibu-en (Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; operated 1985–2004) and Lotte World (Seoul, South Korea; 1989–97). According to Harry Michelson, because relatively few double and triple wheels were built, production was discontinued sometime in the 1990s and parts became scarce, making maintenance of these relatively complicated rides difficult and expensive.\n"}
{"id": "2102681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102681", "title": "Julnar (crater)", "text": "Julnar (crater)\n\nJulnar is a crater in the northern hemisphere of Saturn's moon Enceladus. Julnar was first discovered in \"Voyager 2\" and has only been seen at comparable resolution by \"Cassini\". It is located at 52.8° North Latitude, 350.0° West Longitude and is approximately 19 kilometers across.\n\nJulnar is named after a character from \"Arabian Nights\". Also known as The Seaborn, Julnar is the heroine of nights 738-756.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102689", "title": "Bill Weiss", "text": "Bill Weiss\n\nWilliam J. Weiss (June 2, 1925, Chicago – August 16, 2011, San Mateo, California), was an American baseball historian and statistician. He served as the official statistician for the Pacific Coast League, and edited a weekly newsletter for the California League for over thirty years. For over forty years, he created sketchbooks which eventually covered over 200 books about all of the players in several minor league and Major League organizations. Those sketches are the only records existent of many minor league organizations' and players' statistics.\n\nWeiss began his association with professional baseball in 1948 as the official statistician for the Longhorn League and box office manager for the Abilene Blue Sox of the West Texas–New Mexico League.\n\nHe moved to San Francisco the following year and began his work as the statistician of the California and Far West Leagues. He was associated with the California League for many years.\n\nIn 1950, Weiss began his association with the Pacific Coast League. In 1954, he married Faye Nelson, who was his \"number one assistant\" for more than fifty years. From 1959 to 1984, he was president of a San Francisco Bay Area amateur league, the Peninsula Winter League, which helped local players, such as Baseball Hall of Famers Willie Stargell and Joe Morgan, to develop their skills. In 1988 he became an executive with Howe Sportsdata. He also wrote a column for \"Baseball America\" for several years. Weiss joined the Society for American Baseball Research (SABR) on September 3, 1971, as member No. 34, less than one month after the organization's founding. In 1977, he was named \"King of Baseball\" by Minor League Baseball.\n\nIn 1998, Weiss and fellow historian Marshall Wright were chosen to select The National Baseball Association's top 100 minor league teams.\n\nIn 2004, he received the Tony Salin Memorial Award, which is awarded annually by The Baseball Reliquary to a person who dedicates his or her life to baseball history.\n\nIn 2005, he became the official League Historian and Secretary of the newly formed Golden Baseball League.\n\nIn 2014, the San Diego Central Library announced that it had acquired the \"Bill Weiss Collection of baseball artifacts and information\", which would be a part of the Library's Sullivan Family Baseball Research Center. The collection includes \"... a compilation of thousands of individual questionnaires that were filled out by high school ballplayers of past generations who would go on to play Major League Baseball.\"\n"}
{"id": "2102697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102697", "title": "My Bologna", "text": "My Bologna\n\n\"My Bologna\" is a parody of the Knack's hit song \"My Sharona\", recorded and performed by musical parody artist \"Weird Al\" Yankovic. Yankovic originally wrote the song while he attended California Polytechnic State University in San Luis Obispo, California; the original version of the parody was recorded in a bathroom across the hall from the radio station at which Yankovic worked. The title refers to Bologna sausage, specifically the Oscar Mayer brand popular in the United States. Yankovic sent \"My Bologna\" to Dr. Demento, who aired the song on his nationwide radio program, \"The Dr. Demento Show\". The song was a hit on the program, and eventually gained the number one spot on Dr. Demento's \"Funny Five\" countdown.\n\nAfter a fortuitous encounter with Doug Fieger (the lead singer of the Knack), and Rupert Perry (then-vice president of Capitol Records), Capitol Records decided to release it as a single. Yankovic was paid $500 for the master tape of the song, and its b-side, \"School Cafeteria\". A month after its commercial release, the single managed to sell 10,000 copies. The song also received positive—albeit limited—reviews from media outlets. Although a music video was never produced for the song, an \"unofficial\" video was filmed, featuring a young Yankovic lip-syncing to this song at Cuesta College in December 1979. \"My Bologna\" was later re-recorded and released on Yankovic's debut album (1983), and the \"bathroom version\" was re-released on the box sets \"\" (1994) and \"\" (2017).\n\nIn the late 1970s, Alfred “Weird Al” Yankovic, was a student at California Polytechnic State University (Cal Poly) in San Luis Obispo, California, and in his spare time, he was a DJ for the university’s radio station, KCPR. Yankovic had a penchant for comedy music and often played it on his radio show. In mid-1979, the song \"My Sharona\" by the Knack was receiving heavy airplay on the radio, and Yankovic started to consider spoofing the single. This parody eventually came to fruition during an ad hoc jam session with his friend Jon Iverson; while Iverson played the main riff to \"My Sharona\" on his guitar, Yankovic began to write lyrics for his parody. Yankovic's lyrics eventually coalesced into \"My Bologna\", an ode to the Oscar Mayer brand of Bologna sausage. The duo started to play it in and around the Cal Poly campus at parties and local theaters.\n\nIn September 1979, Yankovic decided to record his parody in the men's bathroom across from the KCPR offices, because the tiled room made \"an acoustically perfect studio.\" Taped using musical equipment from the radio station, the original version of \"My Bologna\" featured only Yankovic's vocals accompanied by his accordion. Yankovic then sent his recording to Barret \"Dr. Demento\" Hansen, a radio personality who hosted the syndicated \"Dr. Demento Show\", which showcased comedy and oddball music. According to Dr. Demento himself, \"The response I got when I played ['My Bologna'] on the air dwarfed not only that for all [Yankovic's] earlier tapes, but practically everything else I played that whole year.\"\n\nOn September 27, 1979, Yankovic received a type-written note from Dr. Demento informing him that \"My Bologna\" was a smash hit on his radio show, and that Capitol Records had contacted the station, requesting a copy of the spoof for the Knack themselves. Later, the Knack performed at Cal Poly, and Yankovic managed to approach the band and Rupert Perry (then-vice president of Capitol Records) backstage. He informed them of who he was, and, according to Yankovic, \"[the Knack lead singer] Doug Fieger [...] said 'Oh, ['My Bologna' is] a really a great song!' and then he turned to Rupert Perry and said 'You guys oughta put this song out on Capitol Records' and Rupert said 'OK, let's do it!'\" Yankovic was paid $500 for the song's master, as well as the master for the soon-to-be b-side track \"School Cafeteria\". The \"My Bologna\" single was released on Christmas Day, 1979 (a month after the Knack's concert at Cal Poly) and Yankovic was given a six-month contract.\n\nOn March 14, 1982, Yankovic re-recorded the song for his debut album, \"\"Weird Al\" Yankovic\". He later joked that this was done because \"somehow, we thought [the song] might sound better recorded in a professional 24-track studio than [it] did when [it was] recorded in a bathroom\". The Capitol Records single version also appears on \"\" (1994) and \"\" (2017). \"School Cafeteria\" was never re-recorded or made available on any studio albums, although a live-on-the-radio version was released on the compilation album \"Dr. Demento's Basement Tapes 7\".\n\nPrior to the single's commercial release, the song was a hit on the \"Dr. Demento Show\", and landed at number one on the radio show's \"Funny Five\" countdown chart. Within a month of the single being released by Capitol, it had managed to sell 10,000 copies. However, Yankovic soon learned that Capitol Records had no interest in promoting the single.\n\nThe first industry mention of the single came from \"Variety\"; in an article, the magazine erroneously listed the song's creator as \"Wendell Yankovich\" and noted that \"the tune—not too seriously, folks—is called 'My Bologna', based on you-know-what.\" In a later review of Yankovic's debut album, Eugene Chadbourne of AllMusic praised the re-recorded version of the song, writing: \"'My Bologna' demonstrated the [...] fine art of making the stupid much stupider. A later album title by this artist would be \"Dare to Be Stupid\", and if the Knack's 'My Sharona' had to be sacrificed at his creative altar for this to be understood, so be it.\"\n\nAlthough an official video was never released, an \"unofficial\" video was filmed, featuring a young Yankovic lip-syncing to this song at Cuesta College in December 1979. as part of a final project for a TV production class for a Cal Poly, KCPR classmate, Randy Kerdoon. Yankovic—who later referred to the video as \"absolutely terrible, yet of earth-shatteringly profound historical significance\"—credits Kerdoon for producing and directing his first music video. This unofficial music video is included on the DVD \"\" (2003) as an Easter egg.\n\nThe re-recorded version of this parody appears in the third-season \"Stranger Things\" episode \"Chapter Two: The Mall Rats\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2102702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102702", "title": "Bill Weisband", "text": "Bill Weisband\n\nWilliam Weisband, Sr. (August 28, 1908 – May 14, 1967) was an Ukrainian-American cryptanalyst and NKVD agent (code name 'LINK'), best known for his role in revealing U.S. decryptions of Soviet diplomatic and intelligence codes to Soviet intelligence.\n\nWeisband was born in Odessa, Russia, in 1908. He emigrated to the United States in the 1920s and became a naturalized United States citizen in 1938. He was drafted into the United States Army in 1942, and was assigned to signals intelligence duties.\n\nFrom 1941 to 1942, Weisband was the NKVD agent handler for Jones Orin York, who worked at the Northrop Corporation. After joining the U.S. Army's Signals Intelligence Service (SIS) in 1942, he performed signals intelligence and communications security duties in North Africa and Italy, where he made some important friends before returning to the \"Russian Section\" at Arlington Hall, where SIS had established its headquarters in June 1942. Although not a cryptanalyst himself, as a \"linguist adviser\" who spoke fluent Russian, Weisband worked closely with cryptanalysts. The gregarious and popular Weisband had access to all areas of Arlington Hall's Soviet work. The codebreaker Meredith Gardner recalled that Weisband had watched him extract a list of Western atomic scientists from a December 1944 NKVD message.\n\nThe Soviets apparently had monitored Arlington Hall's \"Russian Section\" since at least 1945, when Weisband joined the unit. Weisband notified the Soviets that the Venona Project was on the verge of success. To make sure that the FBI was unaware that they knew that the code was about to be broken, they continued to use it. The \"operatives\" were instructed \"every week to compose summary reports or information on the basis of press and personal connections to be transferred to the Center by telegraph.\" As Allen Weinstein pointed out, \"Soviet intelligence's once-flourishing American networks, in short, had been transformed almost overnight into a virtual clipping service.\" \n\nIn February 1948 a Soviet official wrote an internal memorandum about the work of Weisband. For one year, a large amount of very valuable documentary material concerning the work of Americans on deciphering Soviet ciphers, intercepting and analyzing open radio-correspondence of Soviet institutions (the Venona project), was received from (Weisband). From these materials, we came to know that, as a result of this work, American intelligence managed to acquire important data concerning the stationing of the USSR's armed forces, the productive capacity of various branches of industry, and work in the field of atomic energy in the USSR... On the basis of Weisband's materials, our state security organs carried out a number of defensive measures, resulting in the reduced efficiency of the American deciphering service. This has led to the considerable current reduction in the amount of deciphering and analysis by the Americans.\n\nWeisband's role as a Soviet agent was not discovered by counterintelligence officers until 1950, by which time the damage had been done. Where Weisband had sketched the outlines of U.S. cryptanalytic success, British liaison officer Kim Philby received actual translations and analyses on a regular basis after he arrived for duty in Washington, D.C., in autumn 1949. Until a thorough review of Soviet KGB archives is made, the full scope of Weisband's role as a Soviet spy will probably not be known.\n\nIn 1950 Jones Orin York told the FBI that he had passed secrets to the Soviets and that his handler was Bill Weisband. The Venona messages do not hold a definite reference to Weisband. Nevertheless, three messages mention a \"ZVENO\" (the Russian word for \"link\") and one of them suggests procedures for the London residency to use in contacting ZVENO, who was awaiting a transfer to England. ZVENO, according to one message, had spent the last four weeks in an Italian-language course in Virginia and would leave for Britain by mid-July. In fact, Weisband spent that June honing his skills in a language (probably Italian) at Arlington Hall, shipped out on 17 July, and arrived in London by 29 July.\n\nWhile suspended from SIS on suspicion of disloyalty, Weisband failed to appear for a federal grand jury hearing on the Communist Party USA, for which he had received a summons. As a result, in November 1950 Weisband was convicted of contempt and sentenced to a year in prison. Weisband escaped prosecution for espionage, as authorities feared that a trial would divulge yet more information to Soviet intelligence on U.S. intelligence \"sources and methods\". Weisband never revealed his status as an NKVD agent to anyone, and he remained in the United States, living quietly, and working as an insurance salesman until his death.\n\nHe died suddenly of a heart attack in 1967. His son describes his death:\n\n[My] It was Mothers Day, May 14th 1967 my father was taking me and my sisters to the Smithsonian Institute [sic] for a traditional Sunday afternoon outing. We were driving down the George Washington Memorial Parkway, and he had a massive cardiac arrest. He literally died driving the car. It was horrifying, I grabbed the wheel and pulled the car over to the side of the road, an old '56 Pontiac, and turned the key off. I stood out in the middle of the George Washington Memorial Parkway and stopped traffic, I ran in between the two lanes knocking on windows and doors looking for a doctor or someone to help. Two men helped pull my father out of the car, they laid him on the ground and tried to resuscitate him. An ambulance arrived on the scene and took my father to the hospital. He was pronounced dead on arrival. My father was a great father and I've missed him very much.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102714", "title": "The Sea Devils", "text": "The Sea Devils\n\nThe Sea Devils is the third serial of the ninth season of the long-running British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in six weekly parts on BBC1 from 26 February to 1 April 1972. It was written by Malcolm Hulke and directed by Michael E. Briant. The serial is notable as the first appearance of the Sea Devils and features extensive location filming in cooperation with the Royal Navy, as well as an experimental electronic score by Malcolm Clarke.\n\nThe serial is set in various locations in and beneath the English Channel. In the serial, the alien time traveller the Master (Roger Delgado) makes contact with the Sea Devils, a bipedal marine race that ruled the Earth before humanity, and plots to use them to reconquer the Earth from humanity.\n\nThe Third Doctor and Jo visit the Master, imprisoned on a small island in the English Channel. Despite his claim to have reformed, he refuses to reveal the location of his TARDIS. As they depart, the Doctor hears of ships mysteriously disappearing. Curious, he investigates a sea fortress, where he and Jo are attacked by sea-adapted bipedal reptile, called a Sea Devil by one witness. They escape to a nearby naval base.\n\nThe Doctor discovers that the Master, with the misguided aid of his ostensible jailor Colonel Trenchard, is stealing electrical equipment from the naval base to build a machine that will control the so-called Sea Devils, intending to use them as an army through which to conquer the world. He summons them and they begin to emerge from the sea. A battle for the prison ensues during which Trenchard is killed. The Doctor and Jo once again flee to the naval base where Captain Hart tells them a submarine has disappeared. Whilst the crew prepare for battle, the Doctor is seized by the sea creatures.\n\nThe Doctor offers to broker peaceful negotiations between the sea-creatures and the humans, recalling how he failed in his earlier attempt with the Silurians. Matters are left unresolved in the wake of an attack by depth charges ordered by Robert Walker, a British politician arrived to take control of the situation and intent on repeating UNIT's actions against the Silurians, namely blowing them up, but this time with a nuclear weapon. The attack is opposed by Jo, but does provide the Doctor with cover as he flees to the naval base, where he persuades Walker to allow him another, final attempt at negotiation. In the meantime the Sea Devils capture the naval base, a move instigated by the Master. As part of his plan, he now forces the Doctor to help build a machine to revive dormant Sea Devils around the world. The device activated, the Sea Devils imprison them both, their uses ended. But the Doctor has sabotaged the machine. He escapes with the Master using equipment from the captured submarine.\n\nThe sabotaged machine destroys the Sea Devil base before a military attack can begin. The Master evades capture by faking a heart attack and then hijacking a rescue hovercraft.\n\nWhilst imprisoned, the Master watches the children's television show \"The Clangers\".\n\nWorking titles for this story included \"The Sea Silurians\". Because of the story's location filming requirements it was allocated the second slot in the production run for \"Doctor Who\"s ninth season so as to allow filming in October. However, to alternate the stories between those set on Earth and those set on other worlds it was transmitted third in the season. This was the first time stories were produced out of transmission order. The serial was mainly filmed around Portsmouth, HM Naval Base Portsmouth, No Man's Land Fort, the Isle of Wight and .\n\nThe earlier \"Doctor Who and the Silurians\" had resulted in many letters from scientists and geologists who argued that it was impossible for a reptilian lifeform to have existed in the Silurian era. In this story the Doctor admits that the name \"Silurian\" is inaccurate and states they should more properly be called \"Eocenes\".\n\nThe Royal Navy waived royalty fees on the use of stock footage and clips showing ships in action, happy with on-screen credits and the positive publicity generated by the show. Many sailors volunteered to help with the filming, so that most of the extras during the sequence at the Naval Base were actual service personnel, except in some of the stunts. In the first episode, the script called for Jo Grant and the Doctor to climb up a ladder to get into a sea fortress. The ladder proved too slippery for Katy Manning, so stuntman Stuart Fell did the shot dressed as Grant.\n\nA model of a submarine was created by purchasing a Woolworths submarine model kit and then altering the propeller. By chance, the alterations to the model strongly resembled an actual prototype submarine being developed by the Ministry of Defence. After footage of the model was broadcast as part of the story, director Michael Briant received a visit from two Naval Intelligence officials, who were concerned about where the visual effects team got the plans for the model from.\n\nWhen the wiping of episodes ceased in 1978 it was discovered that the first three episodes had only survived as black and white telerecordings made for overseas sales. In the early 1980s NTSC transfers of all six episodes were returned from broadcasters in Canada. These were converted back to the original PAL format.\n\nThe BBC Radiophonic Workshop's Malcolm Clarke composed the incidental music for the story. It was his first contribution to the series and was notably more experimental than the series' usual scores by freelance composer Dudley Simpson. Clarke's score was entirely electronic, created on the Radiophonic Workshop's EMS Synthi 100 synthesizer. His score for the serial has been described as \"startling in its range of obtrusive electronic timbres and relative melodic paucity\", \"mixed music and sound effects\" and \"presented uncomfortable sounds to a substantial early evening audience on Saturdays in a way not duplicated in Britain before or since\". The music was presented as a suite on the 1983 LP \"\", and was released in full on the 2000 compilation album \"\". Parts of the incidental music, as well as a line of dialogue, were sampled by Orbital on their track \"Doctor Look Out\".\n\nThe story was edited and condensed into a single omnibus episode, broadcast on BBC1 at 3:05 pm on 27 December 1972, reaching 8.7 million viewers. An unscheduled repeat of the omnibus was shown again on 27 May 1974, with a rating of 4.6 million viewers. A full repeat of all six episodes was shown on BBC2 from 6 March to 10 April 1992, with ratings of 3.12, 3.55, 2.96, 3.37, 3.10 & 3.04 million viewers, respectively. As referenced on the DVD release on screen notes, episode 1 was originally transmitted at the end of the 1972 UK miners' strike which had caused national power blackouts, possibly accounting for the sharp increase in viewers from episode 2.\nPaul Cornell, Martin Day and Keith Topping gave the serial a favourable review in \"The Discontinuity Guide\" (1995), calling it \"a good Malcolm Hulke script\", with a \"pedestrian\" pace that still allowed for some suspense. However, they felt that the music \"veers between being eerily experimental and tunelessly intrusive\". In \"The Television Companion\" (1998), David J. Howe and Stephen James Walker described the story as \"a colourful adventure yarn\" with quality direction and high production values. They praised the acting of both the main cast and the guests, finding Trenchard the most interesting. They noted that the incidental music had a mixed reception because of its radical departure, but it remained the most striking aspect of the story.\n\nIn 2009, Patrick Mulkern of \"Radio Times\" wrote that \"The Sea Devils\" was the Third Doctor's era reaching an \"apex in ambition and quality\", praising the design of the Sea Devils and the supporting characters. DVD Talk's John Sinnott wrote that the story was \"very good\", although he felt it would have been better as a four- or five-parter. He also disliked the incidental music. Den of Geek felt that \"The Sea Devils\" was the best story on the Beneath the Surface DVD boxset (including \"Doctor Who and the Silurians\" and \"Warriors of the Deep\", though it was also noted that the story would have worked better if it was shorter. The website included the serial on their list of \"Top 10 Classic Doctor Who Scores\".\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Malcolm Hulke, was published by Target Books in October 1974 and was originally to be titled \"The Sea Monsters\". There are, as usual with Hulke, many added sections—including an ironic death for Trenchard as he makes a last stand against the Sea Devils and forgets to take the safety catch off his pistol. Also, the Master makes reference to his alliance with the Ogrons in the later serial \"Frontier in Space\" (also written by Hulke). A Portuguese translation was published in 1983.\n\nIn June 2012, an audiobook of the novelisation was released, read by Geoffrey Beevers.\n\nThe story was released on VHS in September 1995. The copy of Episode Five used was the NTSC version, despite the fact work had been done a year or so previously to remove the scratch from the PAL version. The story's original soundtrack was released on CD as part of the 'Monsters on Earth' tin set along with \"Doctor Who and the Silurians\" and \"Warriors of the Deep\" in October 2006 and linking narration was provided by Katy Manning. The CD was re-issued individually in January 2008. \"The Sea Devils\" was released on DVD as part of a boxed set called \"Beneath the Surface\" with \"Doctor Who and the Silurians\" and \"Warriors of the Deep\" on 14 January 2008.\n\nThe complete music score for this serial was released on \"\".\n"}
{"id": "2102719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102719", "title": "Aston Martin 2-Litre Sports", "text": "Aston Martin 2-Litre Sports\n\nThe Aston Martin 2-Litre Sports was a sports car sold by Aston Martin from 1948 to 1950. It was the first product of the company under new owner, David Brown, and is retrospectively known as the DB1. The car debuted at the 1948 London Motor Show and was based on the Aston Martin Atom prototype. Just 15 were sold.\n\nThe Atom was an Aston Martin project developed during World War II. Its tube-frame chassis and 2.0 L four-cylinder engine were developed by Claude Hill.\n\nShortly after David Brown purchased Aston Martin, construction began on an updated version. This prototype was entered at the 24 Hours race at Spa in 1948 as a way of testing its durability, and the car won the race outright with drivers St. John Horsfall and Leslie Johnson. The Spa car was rebuilt and shown at the London Motor Show as an example of a new \"Spa Replica\" series for public sale, but there were no takers. The single Spa car has been until recently kept in the Dutch Motor Museum. In 2006 it returned to the UK and has been fully restored.\n\nAlong with the cycle-wing Spa car, Brown directed Aston to build a 2-seat roadster with a more conventional body for the London show. This 2-Litre Sports, as the name suggested, used the 2.0 L Claude Hill engine. This 90 hp (67 kW) unit could propel the small, light vehicle to 93 mph (150 km/h).\n\n13 of the cars wore an open roadster body, as shown in London, complete with a 3-part grille suggesting the later Aston Martin design. One unusual feature of these cars was the compartment in one front wing for the spare wheel. One more 2-Litre car was shipped as a chassis for custom coachwork.\n\nAfter the 1950 introduction of the replacement DB2, with the W. O. Bentley designed Lagonda straight-6 engine, the 2-Litre Sports became known widely as the DB1. At this point only 12 had been produced, however since the DB2 was a hardtop and a customer wanted a softtop, chassis numbers 13,14 and 15 were produced to special order.\n"}
{"id": "2102722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102722", "title": "Cromwell (computing)", "text": "Cromwell (computing)\n\nCromwell is a replacement firmware for the Microsoft Xbox gaming console that has been developed by the Xbox Linux Project. If programmed onto the onboard flash chip of the Xbox or a modchip, it can boot the Linux operating system and practically convert the Xbox into a full PC.\n\nIt is unusual in that it is a legal firmware (because it does not use any of Microsoft's code to function) and was developed primarily through reverse-engineering of the original Microsoft BIOS and its boot process. In light of this, many Xbox modchip manufacturers ship this firmware with their chips to avoid litigation and copyright infringement claims. The main function of this firmware is to load the Linux operating system, although it also supports other features, such as the ability to reprogram the hardware with another firmware image, lock and unlock the hard disk, and change video mode (PAL/NTSC). Unlike the vast majority of Xbox firmware images, it is not able to load Xbox games (either original or otherwise). This is because the original Microsoft firmware image contains the kernel of the Xbox operating system (widely believed to be a stripped-down Windows 2000 derivative) - that is, the firmware is the operating system. As Cromwell does not contain this, it is not able to allow games to load and function.\n\nCromwell includes code from other open source projects, but combines them in a unique way. This is a list of components that can be found in Cromwell:\n\nThe standalone version of the Linux USB stack from Cromwell has been ported to the ReactOS operating system.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102723", "title": "Hydrography of the Oak Ridges Moraine", "text": "Hydrography of the Oak Ridges Moraine\n\nPreliminary research on the hydrology of the Oak Ridges Moraine began in the 1970s, but a broader research effort including the impact of urban development on the aquifer system and Great Lakes water quality was established in 1993. The research locus is the Geological Survey of Canada and the University of Toronto Groundwater Research Group, though other groups have made substantial contributions to this project.\n\nThe moraine serves to recharge streams and rivers in the surrounding region, acting as an underground reservoir. Rain and snow melt slowly soak into the moraine, being filtered and purified in its many sand and gravel aquifers. The cool, fresh water is discharged into the headwaters of streams and rivers which eventually flow into Lake Simcoe, Lake Scugog and Lake Ontario. The aquifers are also the water supply for some communities on the Moraine.\n\nThe moraine's hydrological system is inter-twined with a regional flow system not bound by the morphological limits of the moraine. For this reason, environmentalists and researchers promote an aggressive protection strategy extending beyond the moraine, thus ensuring a contiguously protected hydrological system.\n\nA number of features comprise the hydrological system of the Oak Ridges Moraine:\n\n\nThe Oak Ridges Moraine's hydrological system is a major constituent of the Humber Watershed, so that any impact on this system will be of concern. A specific concern is urbanization, which affects water quality by increasing its load of metals and organic contaminants. A study by Cook et al. (1985) found an increase in mean annual runoff, instantaneous discharge, and hydrograph peak flow as a result of urbanization: \"...changes in land use coincided with changes in volumetric and time distribution aspects of hydrologic response.\"\n\nNumerous watersheds are linked to the Oak Ridges Moraine, and are managed by various organizations.\n\nThe \"Oak Ridges Moraine Conservation Act\" of 2001 stipulates that any development in the moraine or nearby areas must satisfy several conditions, most prominently that each development leave a buffer zone of 30 m between it and any hydrological feature; for a kettle lake, this measure is from the edge of the lake's catchment area.\n\nThe Act specifically required that each municipality, single-tier and upper-tier, must have commenced preparations for a watershed plan before April 22, 2003 for all watersheds whose streams originate in that municipality [O. Reg. 140/02, s. 24 (1)], and that the requirements of that plan be implemented in the municipality's official plan. The scope of each plan minimally required:\n\n\nAll development within a municipality was prohibited until the completion of this planning exercise, and no development application submitted after April 23, 2007 may proceed if it fails to meet the requirements of the watershed plan, or fails to address the water budget and conservation plan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102734", "title": "The Heenan Family", "text": "The Heenan Family\n\nThe Heenan Family was a stable of wrestlers managed by Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan beginning in the 1970s. Heenan managed wrestlers under the Heenan Family name in the American Wrestling Association (AWA), the National Wrestling Alliance's (NWA) Georgia Championship Wrestling (GCW), and the World Wrestling Federation (WWF).\n\nThe term \"stable\" refers to a group of wrestlers in an ongoing alliance, often under a single manager. Heenan notoriously disliked the term, stating that \"a stable is a place where you keep a bunch of fly-infested horses\", and instead referred to his collective wrestlers as his \"family\". The name moved with him, and changed members frequently.\n\nBobby \"The Brain\" Heenan, a professional wrestling manager, joined the American Wrestling Association (AWA) full time in 1974 managing the team of Nick Bockwinkel and Ray Stevens. Bobby Duncum, Sr. joined within the next year forming the first version of the Heenan family. He went on to later manage The Blackjacks (Lanza and Mulligan). Heenan led his members to many title reigns, including the AWA World Heavyweight Championship and the AWA World Tag Team Championship before leaving AWA in 1979 to join Georgia Championship Wrestling (GCW).\n\nIn GCW, Heenan formed his second version of Heenan Family, where Blackjack Lanza remained in the stable, while Heenan received new members in Masked Superstar, Killer Karl Kox, Professor Toru Tanaka, and Ernie Ladd. He also led this version to numerous title reigns before he left GCW.\n\nAfter leaving GCW, Heenan returned to AWA, where he reformed Heenan Family with Nick Bockwinkel. He added Super Destroyer Mark II shortly after arriving. Ken Patera joined in 1982. Toward the end of his time in the AWA, Mr. Saito became part of the Heenan Family.\n\nHeenan made his debut appearance in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) in September 1984, seconding Big John Studd to the ring. While Jesse Ventura was originally supposed to be the first member of the WWF version of the Heenan Family, he was forced to retire due to health problems. Studd officially became the first member of the WWF version of the Heenan Family and wasn't long before Patera joined the fold. Heenan managed Buddy Rose From December 1984 to January 1985 and appeared with him on \"Piper's Pit\".\n\nAdrian Adonis and Missing Link joined the Heenan Family in May 1985.\n\nThe Heenan Family's first target was André the Giant, with whom Studd had been embroiled in a bitter feud over who was the true \"giant\" of wrestling. The Heenan Family scored the first major victory in the feud when Heenan helped instigate a 2-on-1 attack on André, an incident that resulted in Studd and Patera cutting André's famous locks of hair. André regained the upper hand. In response, Heenan then traded Adrian Adonis and Missing Link to manager Jimmy Hart in September 1985 for King Kong Bundy. Bundy, along with Studd, continued to make life difficult for André, who turned to Hulk Hogan and Tony Atlas for assistance.\n\nStudd and Bundy also formed a successful tag team, though they never seriously challenged for the WWF Tag Team Championship, instead concentrating on Heenan Family feuds with André and Hogan. At WrestleMania 2, Heenan would manage King Kong Bundy at the main event. In May 1986, Heenan managed longtime friend Harley Race, bleaching his hair blond and billing himself as \"Handsome\" Harley Race. During a time when the WWF did not recognize the existence of other promotions and the accomplishments a wrestler made there, WWF officials came up with a solution to recognize his wrestling pedigree by having him win the King of the Ring tournament. After this, he referred to himself as \"King\" Harley Race, coming to the ring in a royal crown and cape, to the ceremonial accompaniment of the tenth movement (known as \"The Great Gates of Kiev\") of \"Pictures at an Exhibition\" by Modest Mussorgsky. After winning a match, Harley would make his defeated opponent \"bow and kneel\" before him and Heenan would usually assist the defeated opponent to \"bow and kneel\" by grabbing their hair and forcing them to bow before King Harley Race.\n\nAs part of a storyline explaining André's leave of absence from the WWF (due to health problems and a tour of Japan), the Heenan Family campaigned to have André suspended for failing to show for matches against Studd and Bundy, and later to require a lifetime suspension from the WWF if they could prove a masked man competing as the \"Giant Machine\" was André. In addition to André, WWF World Heavyweight Champion Hulk Hogan was another frequent target of the Heenan Family (though in real life the pair were friends and, when he was leaving the AWA, Heenan had actually called Hogan about getting work in the WWF and then suggested him to WWF owner Vince McMahon). Early on, Heenan turned to Studd, Bundy and Hogan's on-again, off-again friend \"Mr. Wonderful\" Paul Orndorff to win the title from Hogan, but they were all unsuccessful. In October 1986, Heenan purchased the contract of Hercules from his previous manager Slick. On the November 26, 1986 \"Saturday Night's Main Event VIII\", Heenan would lead Hercules in a title match against Hogan. Although he was able to put Hogan in the \"Hercules Backbreaker\" torture rack, he lost by pinfall. On December 14 at the following \"Saturday Night's Main Event IX\" taping in Hartford, CT, he would manage Paul Orndorff in steel cage rematch against Hogan, who again won the match.\n\nAlthough John Studd had departed at the end of 1986, Heenan scored a major coup for his stable in January 1987, when André turned heel and challenged Hogan for the title at WrestleMania III. In what was billed as \"the biggest title match in wrestling history\", Hogan was successful in his match against André in front of a reported 93,173 fans at the Silverdome in Pontiac, Michigan. Following the defeat at WrestleMania, André would go into seclusion; Heenan would meanwhile set about expanding the Heenan Family and leading Harley Race in matches against Hogan. In May 1987, The Islanders (Haku and Tama) were scheduled for a match on \"Superstars of Wrestling\". Their opponents were the popular Can-Am Connection (Rick Martel and Tom Zenk), in what was billed as a scientific match. Heenan appeared at ringside during the bout, seemingly surprising both teams, the referee, and the commentators. The confusion allowed The Islanders to attack the Can-Ams from behind, giving The Islanders a countout win. Tama's gave a flying headbutt to Zenk on the arena floor as Heenan gloated over his new tag team. A summer feud between the two tag teams was brewing, but was scrapped when Zenk departed the WWF. On July 15, \"Ravishing\" Rick Rude was added to the Heenan Family at a \"Superstars\" taping in Glens Falls, New York. At this point, the group was at its largest, with André, Bundy, Orndorff, Rude, Race, Hercules, Haku and Tama all managed by Heenan.\n\nIn August 1987, the Family took a hit when Orndorff dumped Heenan and joined Oliver Humperdink. A month later, he joined other managers in an effort to sign Bam Bam Bigelow, in an angle that was called \"The Battle for Bam Bam\". Bigelow in the end wound up a babyface when he denounced all the heel managers and announced that his manager was going to be Oliver Humperdink. In November, André would officially return and won the inaugural Survivor Series elimination tag team match. On December 7, Heenan would again lead Bundy in an effort to dethrone Hulk Hogan at a \"Saturday Night's Main Event XIV\" taping in Landover, Maryland. Bundy was once again defeated and would leave the WWF the following month, but André would attack Hogan and set up a rematch for 1988.\n\nOne year after signing André the Giant, Heenan sold Andre's contract to Ted DiBiase. This would essentially end his two-year primary quest to end Hulk Hogan's reign, and he would instead turn his efforts to The Islanders. They became embroiled in a feud with The British Bulldogs (Davey Boy Smith and the Dynamite Kid), whose mascot Matilda was \"dog-napped\" by The Islanders on an episode of \"Superstars\"; in the weeks following the \"dog-napping\" incident, The Islanders and Heenan brought a leash to the ring and — to taunt their foes — would pantomime feeding and caressing a dog. The two teams met on opposite sides of a six-man tag team match (along with Koko B. Ware teaming with The British Bulldogs and Heenan with The Islanders) at WrestleMania IV. \"High Chief\" Afi joined the tag team to make a trio for one episode of \"Superstars\", taped April 21, 1988 and aired on May 7, 1988. However, the trio would not last long, as Tama's last match with the WWF took place on April 24, 1988 in Toronto's Maple Leaf Gardens, and Haku and Afi would wrestle only a small number of matches through May as The Islanders before Afi departed.\n\nOn March 7, 1988 in Nashville, Tennessee, Heenan would lead Harley Race against former champion Hulk Hogan on \"Saturday Night's Main Event XV\". During the match, Race would suffer an abdominal injury that would sideline him for most of the year. On June 21 at a \"Superstars\" taping, Heenan replaced him with Haku. The Family was further reduced on September 13 when he sold the contract of Hercules to Ted DiBiase on \"Superstars\". The two slots in the Family were then filled on October 5 in Fort Wayne, Indiana when Arn Anderson and Tully Blanchard joined as The Brain Busters.\n\nIn the fall, newcomer \"Scary\" Terry Taylor acquired Heenan as his manager and was rebranded \"The Red Rooster\", a gimmick which saw him don red tights and ring coat and, later as a babyface, style his hair like a rooster's comb and strut like a rooster. Early in his Red Rooster stint, the heel Taylor was portrayed as a novice wrestler who could not navigate his way through matches without constant instructions from Heenan. The Rooster made his pay-per-view debut in the main event of Survivor Series, where he was the first wrestler eliminated from the match.\n\nOn December 6, Heenan tried to further expand the Family by bringing John Studd back to the group. However, in a segment on \"The Brother Love\" show Studd announced that he wanted nothing to do with the organization. At the end of the year, Harley Race did come back, setting up a friendly match with King Haku for the crown at the upcoming Royal Rumble.\n\nKing Haku was successful in retaining his crown against Race in the latter's comeback attempt. Heenan appeared at ringside cheering on both men, but afterwards Race departed. Also that month on the January 7, 1989 episode of \"Saturday Night's Main Event XIX\", The Red Rooster lost a match to Tito Santana due to being distracted by an argument with Heenan. Following the loss, Heenan slapped Taylor, who was tired of Heenan's demeaning style of coaching, and turned against his manager and attacked him. He became a babyface as a result, though he retained the Red Rooster gimmick. Heenan feigned wanting to make amends with Taylor on \"Prime Time Wrestling\", but it was a set-up for Taylor to be ambushed by Heenan's new protege, long-time enhancement talent Steve Lombardi, who Heenan reinvented as The Brooklyn Brawler. The two feuded, leading to The Red Rooster defeating The Brooklyn Brawler on the March 11, 1989 episode of \"Saturday Night's Main Event XX\" and then defeating Heenan in a 30-second squash at WrestleMania V.\n\nAfter going more than four years without winning any of the WWF championship (World Heavyweight, Intercontinental or Tag Team), the Heenan Family got its first title when Rick Rude (with help from Heenan) upset The Ultimate Warrior to win the Intercontinental Championship at WrestleMania V. Shortly thereafter, he led The Brain Busters (former Horsemen members Arn Anderson and Tully Blanchard) to the WWF Tag Team Championship with a win over Demolition (Ax and Smash) on \"Saturday Night's Main Event XXIV\", giving the Heenan Family two champions at one time. The Brain Busters would later lose the titles to Demolition in a rematch, and in November 1989 departed the company. A month later, Heenan formed a new team, The Colossal Connection (André and Haku), who defeated Demolition.\n\nOn February 13, Heenan would add to the Family by acquiring the contract of The Barbarian from Mr. Fuji. At WrestleMania VI in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, Demolition regained the titles from The Colossal Connection and after the match, Heenan angrily berated Andre, leading André to turn on him and depart. Later that month, his spot in the Family would be filled by Mr Perfect, and the Heenan Family got its fourth title when Mr. Perfect defeated former champion Tito Santana and won a tournament at a \"Superstars\" taping on April 23 in Austin, Texas to fill the vacant Intercontinental Championship. Going into the match, Perfect had told that he would have a \"new\" manager, with the surprise that it was Bobby Heenan, who came to ringside midway through the bout and distracted Santana enough to allow Perfect to get the win. The same month, Heenan would manage a charge against the world title for the first time in over two years, when he led Haku in a match against new world champion The Ultimate Warrior. Although Haku was unsuccessful, Heenan managed Rick Rude in a series of challenges against Warrior throughout the summer, but Rude was unsuccessful.\n\nAt SummerSlam, Mr. Perfect lost the Intercontinental Championship to Kerry Von Erich. Rick Rude departed the WWF in September, leaving the Heenan Family with just Hennig, Haku, and Barbarian as members. Perfect regained the title on November 19, 1990, thanks to interference from Ted DiBiase. This title win aired on the December 15, 1990 episode of \"Superstars\".\n\nMr. Perfect faced Big Boss Man at WrestleMania VII in Los Angeles, where a disqualification loss after Bossman was attacked by Heenan Family members Haku and The Barbarian meant that he retained his title; during the match, Perfect had been hit in the head with the Intercontinental Championship title belt by former Heenan member André the Giant, though he managed to kick-out of a pin attempt. Despite this, the following month Heenan became one of several managers to attempt to sign Andre the Giant to their respective stables. Andre refused and forced Heenan to march in a tub of grapes on Prime Time Wrestling.\n\nA month later, the Heenan Family came to a temporary conclusion as Heenan announced on May 28 at a \"Superstars\" taping that he was selling the contract of Intercontinental Champion Mr. Perfect to \"Coach\" John Tolos and retiring to become a \"broadcast journalist\"; in reality, he retired as a manager due to lingering effects of a broken neck suffered in 1983 and being an announcer offered a less strenuous travel schedule as well as no longer taking bumps. However, he would go to associate with Ric Flair when he came to the WWF soon after. Heenan was to have been on the road with Flair for six months, but told in his WWE Hall of Fame speech that he went to Vince McMahon after only a month and said he couldn't do it, that Vince had teamed him with Larry Flynt and that he simply couldn't keep up with Flair's party lifestyle, though he would continue to heavily support Flair in his commentating with his catch line being \"That's not fair to Flair\" when he was getting beat up in the ring. Heenan also introduced Lex Luger in January 1993 and was known as his advisor, though he did not appear as his manager at ringside.\n\nOther wrestlers who were part of the Heenan Family, at one time or another, were Ken Patera, Paul Orndorff, Adrian Adonis, The Missing Link, \"The King\" Harley Race, The Islanders (Haku and Tama), Hercules, The Barbarian, The Red Rooster, and The Brooklyn Brawler. Several of them—most notably Hercules and Race—challenged Hogan for the WWF World Heavyweight Championship, while others played key roles in various mid-card and main-event storylines.\n\n\n\n\nPer \"The WWE Encyclopedia\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102745", "title": "Hsiao Bi-khim", "text": "Hsiao Bi-khim\n\nHsiao Bi-khim (; born August 7, 1971) is a Taiwanese politician who served as a member of the Legislative Yuan from 2002 to 2008, and again between 2012 and 2020. She lost during the 2020 election and was no longer a member of the Legislative Yuan. \n\nBorn in Kobe, Japan, Hsiao grew up in Tainan, Taiwan before moving to the United States. She graduated from Oberlin College in 1993 and Columbia University in 1995.\n\nShe is a member of the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) and an important figure in DPP foreign policy circles. She is also a vice president of Liberal International.\n\nHsiao was born in Kobe, Japan, to a Taiwanese father and American mother. Raised in Tainan, Taiwan, she grew up speaking Chinese, Hokkien, and English. After moving to the United States during her high school years, Hsiao completed her undergraduate studies at Oberlin College, receiving a bachelor's degree in East Asian studies. She continued on to graduate school at Columbia University, where she received her master's degree in political science.\n\nIn the United States, Hsiao became active with the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) representative office in the US serving as an activity coordinator. Upon returning to Taiwan, Hsiao became the party's international affairs director and represented the party in several international conferences for over a decade.\n\nAfter Chen Shui-bian took office as the President of the Republic of China in 2000, Hsiao served as his interpreter and advisor for nearly two years. Her dual US and Republic of China (Taiwan) citizenship while she was holding a government position became a political issue, and she renounced her US citizenship, as required by the Civil Servants Employment Law passed in 2000.\n\nIn January 2001, Hsiao announced her intention to run for the Legislative Yuan on the DPP ticket as a supplementary member representing overseas constituencies, citing her experience in international relations. She was subsequently elected in December the same year.\n\nIn the legislative elections of December 2004, Hsiao was reelected to the Legislative Yuan representing Taipei's first constituency, covering the northern districts of Xinyi, Songshan, Nangang, Neihu, Shilin, and Beitou. As a legislator, she served on the Foreign and Overseas Affairs Committee (外交及僑務委員會), the Procedure Committee (程序委員會), and the Discipline Committee (紀律委員會).\n\nHsiao worked on a number of issues in the legislature, notably women's rights, the rights of foreigners in Taiwan, and other human rights. Hsiao supported amending the Nationality Law to allow individuals born to at least one parent of ROC nationality to also claim ROC nationality irrespective of age, and has also proposed and cosponsored anti-discrimination and anti-domestic violence amendments to the Immigration Act. She has also been a proponent of animal rights, proposing amendments to the Animal Protection Act, and also pushed for the passage of the Sexual Harassment Prevention Act in January 2005.\n\nIn May 2005, Hsiao represented the DPP at the annual congress of Liberal International in Sofia, Bulgaria, during which she was elected as a vice-president of the organization. Hsiao alleged that she and other DPP representatives were followed throughout their visit to Bulgaria by two unidentified persons sent by the People's Republic of China embassy in Sofia.\n\nThe same month, Hsiao also started a campaign to encourage Taiwanese baseball fans to write e-mails to the New York Yankees to request for them to keep Taiwanese pitcher Chien-Ming Wang at the major league level.\n\nHsiao was one of the DPP lawmakers targeted by some party supporters as being insufficiently loyal, with a pro-independence radio show dubbing her as \"Chinese Khim\" (中國琴) in March 2007, charging that she was close to the DPP's former New Tide faction. Defended by some other DPP members, Hsiao was still not nominated to stand for re-election by the DPP in the January 2008 legislative elections, a move some attributed to be the result of that controversy.\n\nHsiao left the Legislative Yuan after her term expired on January 31, 2008. She served as spokesperson for Frank Hsieh's unsuccessful 2008 presidential campaign. She is also vice chairman of the Taiwan Tibet Exchange Foundation, a member of the board of trustees of the Taiwan Foundation for Democracy, a member of the executive committee of the Council of Asian Liberals and Democrats, and a founding member of the Taiwan Association for Women in Sport (台灣女子體育運動協會).\n\nShe returned to the Legislative Yuan in February 2012, elected via party list proportional representation. In 2016, Hsiao succeeded Wang Ting-son as legislator for Hualien County. In August 2019, she received the Democratic Progressive Party nomination to run for another term in Hualien County. She lost her seat to Fu Kun-chi in the 2020 legislative elections.\n\nHer father, Hsiao Tsing-fen, is a former president of the Tainan Theological College and Seminary.\n\nIn November 2000, \"The Journalist\", a local tabloid magazine, wrongly claimed to have been told by Vice President Annette Lu that Hsiao was having an affair with President Chen. No evidence supported the tale, and Lu sued the magazine for libel in civil court. The magazine was eventually ordered to apologize and issue corrections admitting it had fabricated the story.\n\nDuring her political career, Hsiao and fellow legislators Cheng Li-chun and Chiu Yi-ying gained the nickname \"the S.H.E of the DPP.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2102759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102759", "title": "Another One Rides the Bus", "text": "Another One Rides the Bus\n\n\"Another One Rides the Bus\" is a 1981 parody of Queen's \"Another One Bites the Dust\" by American comedy musician \"Weird Al\" Yankovic. The song describes a person riding in a crowded public bus. It was recorded live on September 14, 1980, on the \"Dr. Demento Show\", hosted by Barret \"Dr. Demento\" Hansen. Accompanying Yankovic was Jon \"Bermuda\" Schwartz, who would go on to be the parody artist's long-time drummer.\n\nThe song became a hit on the \"Dr. Demento Show\" as well as an underground success. Hoping to capitalize on the success of the song, Yankovic originally released \"Another One Rides the Bus\" on an EP of the same name. Later, the song was issued as a commercial single by TK Records, which peaked at 104 on the U.S. \"Billboard\" Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles. However, it quickly fell off the chart when TK subsequently closed. In 1983, Yankovic re-released the song on his debut album. The song has been well received by critics, and Brian Maythe guitarist of Queenhas expressed his amusement with Yankovic's parody.\n\nIn 1979, while he was still a student at California Polytechnic State University (Cal Poly) in San Luis Obispo, California, Alfred “Weird Al” Yankovic recorded a rough parody of \"My Sharona\" by The Knack entitled \"My Bologna\". Fortuitous circumstances led to the song being released by Capitol Records on December 25, 1979. Although the single managed to sell 10,000 copies a month after its release, Yankovic soon learned that Capitol had no interest in promoting the record or releasing a follow-up single. After graduating in 1980 with a Bachelor of Science degree in architecture, Yankovic still had an interest in releasing parody music, and soon turned his attention to \"Another One Bites the Dust\" by rock band Queen. The song had been written by Queen bassist John Deacon and released on their 1980 album \"The Game\".\n\nLyrically, \"Another One Rides the Bus\" describes a person riding in a crowded public bus. In the first verse, the bus proceeds to pick up more people. The second verse discusses the various things that are touching the person (such as a suitcase and an elbow), and about how several of his personal items are missing (like a contact lens and a wallet). In the third verse, the speaker is trying to get fresh air but the bus's fan is broken and his window does not open. This causes him to exclaim that he \"hasn't been in a crowd like this since I went to see The Who.\" Finally, he laments about not getting off the bus sooner.\n\nYankovic debuted the song live on September 14, 1980, on the \"Dr. Demento Show\", hosted by Barret \"Dr. Demento\" Hansen. While practicing the song outside the sound booth, Yankovic met Jon \"Bermuda\" Schwartz, who offered to provide percussion for his performance. Because Yankovic did not have a drum kit, Schwartz rhythmically struck Yankovic's accordion case as a way of keeping the beat. The version of \"Another One Rides the Bus\" that was recorded in 1980 and released in 1981 was later re-released in its original form on Yankovic's eponymous debut album (1983).\n\nThe single's b-side is \"Gotta Boogie\", which was co-written by Joe Earley. The song is a play on words discussing a man with a \"boogie\" on his finger and his failure to get rid of it. The version of \"Gotta Boogie\" included on this single was recorded in April 1980; this song also appeared on Yankovic's eponymous debut album, although in a re-recorded form.\n\nMuch like \"My Bologna\", \"Another One Rides the Bus\" was a hit on the \"Dr. Demento Show\", and Dr. Demento himself said:\n\nFor the next few weeks we got twice as many requests for \"Another One Rides the Bus\" as for everything else put together. Thank goodness I had a tape rolling! We even got it in stereo. Over the next couple of months that tape was duplicated and re-duplicated all over the world, as the song took on a life of its own. [...] The Dr. Demento Show gained a couple of dozen new station affiliates just because of that song.\n\nEventually, Yankovic borrowed some money from Dr. Demento and pressed one thousand copies of a four-track EP by himself. Yankovic then distributed this EP to various record stores, selling them through consignment deals. Yankovic released the record under Placebo Records, a one-off label founded by Yankovic for the sole purpose of distributing the EPs. Due to the underground success of the record, Yankovic secured a short-lived record deal with TK Records, and in February 1981, the label released \"Another One Rides the Bus\" as a single. The record was rush-released, but managed to chart on the Bubbling Under Hot 100 singles. However, TK abruptly closed due to financial troubles and the single fell off the charts.\n\nDomestically, the single was released in a generic TK Records sleeve. International versions of the single, however, featured different artwork. The Dutch release, for instance, featured artwork depicting a crowded bus. According to Yankovic's official site, this version of the \"single used artwork similar to what would appear on Al's first album.\"\n\nThe song was well received by music critics. In a later review of Yankovic's debut album, Eugene Chadbourne of AllMusic called the parody \"a classic piece of musical humor\" that showcased Yankovic's ability to knock \"the wind out of any pretentious, overblown rock anthem by slightly adjusting the lyrical content.\" Nathan Rabin, in the book \"Weird Al, The Book\" (2012), praised the song, writing:\n\nThough the modest Yankovic himself laughs off the notion, we can all agree that \"Another One Rides the Bus\" embodies the anarchic spirit of punk rock just as much as anything Johnny Rotten or The Clash ever recorded. It's the essence of punk: an enraged, defiant malcontent with a long list of grievances screaming his pain to an indifferent world. [...] Yankovic came to symbolize a curiously ubiquitous fixture of new wave: the enraged geek.\n\nBrian May, the guitarist of Queen, found the song amusing, and said in an interview, \"There's been a few cover versions [of 'Another One Bites the Dust'] of various kinds, notably 'Another One Rides the Bus', which is an extremely funny record by a bloke called 'Mad Al' or something in the [United] States—it's hilarious.\"\n\nAlthough no official music video was created for this single, Yankovic and Schwartz performed \"Another One Rides the Bus\" on \"The Tomorrow Show\" with Tom Snyder. During the performance, Yankovic played his accordion and Schwartz banged on Yankovic's accordion case and played bulb horns. \"The Tomorrow Show\" performance was later included on the \"\" (2003) DVD as a bonus feature.\n\n\"Another One Rides the Bus\" was used in \"The Walking Dead\" season eight opener \"Mercy\" during an ambiguous scene featuring a grey-haired and bearded Rick Grimes joining his family including young daughter Judith. Many critics and commentators noted that the use of \"Another One Rides the Bus\" was idiosyncratic. Yankovic later tweeted: \"I’m just as confused as you are why 'Another One Rides the Bus' was featured in #TheWalkingDead season premiere, but I’m extremely honored!\" Showrunner Scott M. Gimple later told \"Entertainment Weekly\" that he had chosen the track because it \"had to be a song that I wanted Judith to be into\". Gimble also claimed that he wanted the music to be \"even more jarring\" than Rick's appearance.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102771", "title": "The Job (2001 TV series)", "text": "The Job (2001 TV series)\n\nThe Job is an American single-camera sitcom that aired on ABC between March 14, 2001 and April 24, 2002. Many of the principal actors went on to either star or guest star in the FX network's Denis Leary-produced \"Rescue Me\". In \"Rescue Me\", the lead character (played by Leary) is very similar to Mike McNeil, but is a fireman rather than a police officer.\n\nThe series follows a New York City police officer named Mike McNeil (Denis Leary) – who indulges in adultery, alcohol, cigarettes, and prescription drug abuse – and his fellow bumbling detective pals. The show, which appeared to borrow the tone and look of \"NYPD Blue\" for semi-satirical purposes, was built around the Mike McNeil character, but relied on a strong ensemble cast.\n\n\nThe complete series (19 episodes) was released on DVD in the United States in May 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102782", "title": "The Time Monster", "text": "The Time Monster\n\nThe Time Monster is the fifth and final serial of the ninth season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in six weekly parts on BBC1 from 20 May to 24 June 1972.\n\nThe serial is set in a village near Cambridge as well as the mythical city of Atlantis. In the serial, the alien time traveller the Master (Roger Delgado) seeks the power of Kronos (Marc Boyle and Ingrid Bower), a being that exists outside of time and space, so that he can control the universe.\n\nThe Master, posing as a professor, gains access to a physical science research unit in the village of Wootton, near Cambridge. He conducts time experiments focused around transmitting matter by breaking it down into light waves. He is particularly interested in examining a trident-shaped crystal in his possession, using it to attract a being he addresses as Kronos.\n\nThe Third Doctor and Jo Grant visit the institute, following his hunch that the Master is back on Earth with his TARDIS. The experiments disrupt the normal flow of time and in one instance, Hyde, a researcher, is caught in the field of the experiment, and ages to more than eighty years. Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart has the project evacuated and begins a hunt for the Master. The Doctor explains that Kronos is a \"chronovore\", a creature from outside time that feeds on it, attracted from the vortex to ancient Atlantis using a crystal trident larger than one seen to have been used by the Master. The Doctor suspects capturing the chronovore is the Master’s purpose, and that this represents a danger to the entire Universe.\n\nMeanwhile, Atlantean High Priest of Kronos, Krasis, is transported through interstitial time by the Master and brought to an office at the institute. The Master seizes the Seal of Kronos from the priest and uses it to conjure Kronos, a white, bird-like figure, who devours the Institute's Director, Dr Percival. Kronos is briefly contained by the Master, but breaks free, Krasis surmising the Master only has the smaller fragment of the original crystal.\n\nThe Doctor and his allies, alerted by the Master's actions, build a time flow analogue to interrupt the experiments. The Time Lords then duel using time as a weapon, leading to a series of bizarre temporal effects. When they pit their TARDISes against one another, the Doctor is ejected into the vortex, but survives thanks to Jo and his TARDIS.\n\nIn ancient Atlantis, King Dalios is troubled by the disappearance of Krasis and the threat to the Kronos crystal, which is guarded by the Minotaur at the heart of a maze. The Master has travelled to Atlantis in search of the crystal and soon inveigles himself at court, wooing Queen Galleia. When the Doctor and Jo arrive, the unnaturally long-lived King confides that Atlantis turned from Kronos and sought to end the link by which the chronovore could be controlled, by destroying the crystal, but they could only splinter it. The Doctor then faces the Minotaur to rescue Jo, duped into the maze by Krasis, and the creature is destroyed. The crystal is now produced from the maze – but the Master’s schemes have borne fruit and he has usurped the throne. Jo and the Doctor are soon detained and witness Dalios' death after being smitten with a trident.\n\nKrasis uses the crystal to summon Kronos to Atlantis once more. The enraged chronovore begins to destroy Atlantis while the Master flees in his TARDIS, with Jo Grant in tow. The Doctor heads off in his own TARDIS in pursuit while Kronos destroys the city and people of Atlantis. In the vortex, the Doctor threatens the mutually assured destruction of both TARDISes by a \"time ram\" in which both vehicles would occupy the same space/time co-ordinates. When he carries this threat out, a thankful Kronos is set free, saving the Doctor and Jo and returning them to their TARDIS. On the Doctor’s insistence, the Master is spared, too, but he flees in his own TARDIS before he can be apprehended. The Doctor and Jo return to the institute, where normalcy is returning, through a final use of the Master's machine, which now overloads, and the time experiments end.\n\nThis story sees a redesign of the TARDIS interior. Producer Barry Letts was unhappy with the redesign. The set was damaged shortly after recording on this particular serial wrapped and, as a result, was discarded.\n\nAlthough the PAL mastertapes had been wiped, NTSC copies were returned to the BBC from TVOntario in Canada in 1983. In 1987, a low 625-line monochrome tape of Episode Six was discovered at the BBC. It was recoloured by combining the black-and-white picture with the 525-line colour signal of the episode, creating a superior copy to the NTSC one.\n\nGeorge Cormack also played K'anpo in \"Planet of the Spiders\" (1974). Ingrid Pitt later played Solow in \"Warriors of the Deep\" (1984). Ian Collier returned to play Omega in \"Arc of Infinity\" (1983) and appeared in the audio play \"Excelis Decays\". Susan Penhaligon played Shayla in the audio play \"Primeval\" and Neville Barber played Howard Baker in \"K9 and Company.\n\nPaul Cornell, Martin Day and Keith Topping gave the serial an unfavourable review in \"The Discontinuity Guide\" (1995), describing watching it as being like \"watching paint dry while being whipped with barbed wire\". In 2010, Mark Braxton of \"Radio Times\" felt that the serial teetered between \"delightful\" absurdity and \"outright, galloping stupidity, and sadly it tips too often into the latter.\" While he praised the realisation of Atlantis and the Doctor and Jo, he wrote that many poor decisions were made in production and \"any drama just dribbles away\". DVD Talk's Stuart Galbraith gave \"The Time Monster\" two out of five stars, finding problems in the plot structure and Kronos. In 2010, \"SFX\" named the scene where the Doctor balances ordinary objects to counter TOMTIT as one of the silliest moments in \"Doctor Who\" history.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published in hardback by Target Books in September 1985, and in paperback in February 1986. It was reprinted again as part of Target's Doctor Who Classics range back-to-back to Barry Letts' novelisation of The Dæmons and bound in a metallic cover.\n\nThis story was released with \"Colony in Space\" in a VHS tin box set, \"The Master\", in 2001. As of 5 August 2008, this serial has been offered for sale on iTunes. \"The Time Monster\" was released on 29 March 2010 in a Region 2 DVD box set named \"Myths and Legends\" along with \"Underworld\" and \"The Horns of Nimon\". It was released as a stand-alone disc in Region 1 on 6 July 2010.\n"}
{"id": "2102783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102783", "title": "Maan Sassen", "text": "Maan Sassen\n\nEmmanuel Marie Joseph Antony \"Maan\" Sassen (11 September 1911 – 20 December 1995) was a Dutch politician, who served as European Commissioner for Competition in the Rey Commission from 1967 to 1971.\n\nSassen studied law and earned a doctorate. From 1936 to 1950 he worked as a lawyer and district attorney. In 1939 he became a member of the States of North Brabant. In 1946 he was elected to the Dutch House of Representatives for the Katholieke Volkspartij (KVP). He served as Minister responsible for the Dutch Colonies (1948–1949) and as European Commissioner for Competition in the Rey Commission from 1967 to 1971.\n\nHe was a member of the Common Assembly of the European Coal and Steel Community from its establishment in 1952 and was the first President of the Christian Democratic group, the predecessor of the European People's Party Group.\n"}
{"id": "2102795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102795", "title": "Nick Garrett", "text": "Nick Garrett\n\nNick Garrett may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102802", "title": "Rockslide", "text": "Rockslide\n\nA rockslide is a type of landslide caused by rock failure in which part of the bedding plane of failure passes through compacted rock and material collapses \"en masse\" and not in individual blocks. Note that a rockslide is similar to an avalanche because they are both slides of debris that can bury a piece of land. While a landslide occurs when loose dirt or sediment falls down a slope, a rockslide occurs only when solid rocks are transported down slope. The rocks tumble downhill, loosening other rocks on their way and smashing everything in their path. Fast-flowing rock slides or debris slides behave similarly to snow avalanches, and are often referred to as rock avalanches or debris avalanches. \n\nThe term landslide refers to a variety of mass wasting events (geologic slope failures) that include slumps, slides, falls, and flows. The two major types of slides are rotational slides and translational slides. Rockslides are a type of translational event since the rock mass moves along a roughly planar surface with little rotation or backward tilting. Rock slides are the most dangerous form of mass-wasting because they incorporate a sudden, incredibly fast-paced release of bedrock along a uniform plane of weakness. These uniform weaknesses are key to identifying rock slides because unlike slumps, flows, or falls, the failed material moves in a fairly uniform direction over a layer of solid, pre-existing rock. Rock may break down while falling during rockslides. \n\nThe sudden, rapid release of material found in rock slides combined with the sheer size and weight of the material that is falling is what gives these events the potential to have devastating effects on human life and infrastructure. Rock slides are very common in the over steepened canyons and drainages of Idaho, particularly in those areas like the Salmon River Canyon where more than 5,000 feet of elevation may exist between the ridge tops and the canyon bottoms.\n\nMass-wasting occurs whenever gravitational pressure exceeds the affected slopes ability to resist its pressure. Therefore, anything that erodes or impedes the mountain's ability to resist this force may be one of the causes of mass-wasting. While a major event such as an earthquake can cause large rockslides to happen, a majority of slides occur due to a combination of gravitational pressure and erosional influences.\n\nAmongst these erosional properties, water is arguably the most effective geologic agent that causes mass-wasting events to occur. Water aids in the downslope movement of surface material by adding weight to the soil and by filling pores which tends to push apart individual grains, decreasing the resistance of the material to movement. While these processes can cause a slide to happen, the speed and potential devastation of a rockslide is often determined by the severity of steepness presented by the failing slope.\n\nWith increasing populations in rural areas around the world, the hazards presented by potential rock slides are becoming more of a pressing issue moving forward. Luckily, individuals working in the fields of geologic science and engineering continue to perfect methods of rock slide detection, assessment, and warning. New earth observation tools have supplied a much enhanced ability to detect potential rock slide hazards. Analysis of sequential InSAR and LiDAR data provides a very valuable regional view of slope movement. Once susceptible areas are discovered, detailed analysis can be carried out at the specific site. These assessments are used to determine the amount of material that will be released as well as the speed at which this material will be transported.\n\nOnce a site is deemed hazardous, different types of geologic engineering techniques are used in order to prevent the compromised slope from failing. Some of these designs are listed below.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102813", "title": "Aston Martin DB2", "text": "Aston Martin DB2\n\nThe Aston Martin DB2 is a sports car that was sold by Aston Martin from May 1950 through to April 1953. The successor to the 2-Litre Sports model, it had a comparatively advanced dual overhead cam 2.6 L straight-6 engine in place of the previous pushrod straight-4. It was available as a closed, 2-door, 2-seater coupé which Aston Martin called a sports saloon, and later also as a drophead coupé, which accounted for a quarter of the model's total sales. The closed version had some success in racing.\n\nIn 1947 David Brown bought the Aston Martin and Lagonda companies and incorporated them as Aston Martin Lagonda Ltd.. Lagonda's 2.6 L (2580 cc/157 in), dual overhead cam, straight-six engine, more powerful than the pushrod 2.0 L straight 4 unit in the Aston Martin 2-Litre Sports, was the main objective in Brown's acquisition of the company. W. O. Bentley had supervised the engine's design, which was largely by William (Willie) Watson, an engineer with the pre-war Invicta company who had collaborated on Lagonda's pre-war V12 and also designed the short-lived post-war version.\n\nIn its original form the Lagonda straight-6 had a 78 mm (3.07 in) bore and 90 mm (3.543 in) stroke, and produced about 105 hp (78 kW) with dual SU carburettors. The DB2 utilized it in a shortened version of the tube-frame chassis designed by Claude Hill for the Aston Martin 2-Litre Sports, with a fastback coupé body designed by Frank Feeley.\n\nThree pre-production cars were entered for the 1949 24 Hours of Le Mans. One, which would become the development car for the production DB2, had the Lagonda straight-6, while the four-cylinder Aston Martin 2-litre unit powered the other two. After six laps the Lagonda-powered car, driven by Leslie Johnson, retired with overheating caused by failure of the water pump. One of the 2-litre cars was in 4th place and running without brakes when it crashed two hours short of the finish, fatally injuring driver Pierre Maréchal. The other finished 7th, crewed by Arthur Jones and Nick Haines. A month later, the larger-engined car, driven by Leslie Johnson and Charles Brackenbury, finished 3rd in the Spa 24-hour race, where one of the 2-litre cars was driven to 5th by Nick Haines and Lance Macklin.\n\nFor 1950 all three factory team cars were equipped with the Lagonda engine. At the 1950 Le Mans race the one driven by George Abecassis and Lance Macklin finished 5th, with Brackenbury and Reg Parnell bringing another home 6th, which won Aston Martin 1st and 2nd in the 3-litre class. Across the Atlantic, Briggs Cunningham drove his DB2 to 2nd in its class at the inaugural Sebring race meeting in December 1950. The factory team cars continued racing in Europe throughout 1951, including at Le Mans, where Macklin and Eric Thompson took 3rd overall, with Abecassis and Brian Shawe-Taylor 5th.\n\nDavid Brown soon embarked on a series of Aston Martins designed specifically for competition use, starting with the DB3.\n\nThe DB2 debuted at the New York Auto Show in April 1950 and continued in production until April 1953, by which time 411 had been made. The first 49 had a chrome-framed front grille in three separate parts, and large rectangular cooling vents in the front wings. Subsequent cars had a one-piece grille with horizontal chrome slats, and no side vents.\n\nThe single-piece bonnet was hinged at the front. At the rear of the fixed-head coupé (FHC) a small top-hinged lid gave access to the spare wheel, and luggage space was behind the front seats, accessible only from inside the car.\n\nLater in 1950, a Drophead Coupé (DHC) variant was introduced. At least 102 were built.\n\nIn April 1950, an engine with larger carburettors, inlet camshaft the same as the exhaust (for increased duration), and higher compression ratio pistons (8.16:1) was made available. Aston Martin's first Vantage upgrade option offered 125 hp (93 kW). Initially the higher compression ratio made the engine unsuitable for the British market, as the postwar austerity measures of the early 1950s restricted UK vehicles to 72 octane \"Pool petrol\". The first DB2 Vantage, LML 50/21, was delivered to, and raced by, Briggs Cunningham in the United States.\n\nA closed coupé tested by the British magazine \"The Motor\" in 1950 had a top speed of and could accelerate from 0- in 11.2 seconds. A fuel consumption of was recorded. The test car cost £1914 including taxes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102830", "title": "Lagonda", "text": "Lagonda\n\nLagonda is a British luxury car marque established in 1906, which has been owned by Aston Martin since 1947. The trade-name has not had a continuous commercial existence, being dormant for several times, most recently from 1995 to 2008 and 2010 to 2013.\n\nThe Lagonda company was founded in 1906 in the UK in Staines, Middlesex, by an American-born, Wilbur Gunn (1859–1920), a former opera singer. He became a British national in 1891 and worked as a speed boat and motorcycle engineer in Staines. He named the company after the Shawnee settlement \"Lagonda\" in modern-day Springfield, Ohio, the town of his birth. This is a glacially eroded limestone gorge of much beauty. Historically, the area played a major role in the Treaty of Easton and the aligning of the Shawnee tribe with the British during the French and Indian War. He had originally built motorcycles on a small scale in the garden of his house in Staines with reasonable success, including a win on the 1905 London–Edinburgh trial. In 1907 he launched his first car, the 20 hp, six-cylinder Torpedo, which he used to win the Moscow–St. Petersburg trial of 1910. This success produced a healthy order for exports to Russia which continued until 1914. In 1913 Lagonda introduced an advanced small car, the 11.1, with a four-cylinder 1,099 cc engine, which, by 1914, featured a panhard rod and a rivetted unibody body and the first ever fly-off handbrake.\n\nThe ratchet control button on the end of a fly-off handbrake is designed to work in the opposite way to what is normally expected. If the lever is lifted or pulled back to the \"on\" position, on letting go it immediately releases unless the end button is pressed and held in place before letting go of the lever. Once set, the brake is released by lifting the handbrake lever (not pushing the button) in the setting direction (up or back). This mechanism was traditionally fitted to sports cars to facilitate a racing get-away, such as at traffic lights. It can also be used to help the back wheels to slide, without the worry of the ratchet leaving the brake on.\n\nDuring the First World War Lagonda made artillery shells.\n\nAfter the end of the war the 11.1 continued with a larger, 1,400 cc, engine and standard electric lighting as the 11.9 until 1923 and the updated 12 until 1926. Following Wilbur Gunn's death in 1920, three existing directors headed by Colin Parbury took charge. The first of the company's sports models was launched in 1925 as the 14/60 with a twin-cam 1,954 cc four-cylinder engine and hemispherical combustion chambers. The car was designed by Arthur Davidson who had come from Lea-Francis. A higher output engine came in 1927 with the two-litre Speed model which could be had supercharged in 1930. A lengthened chassis version, the 16/65, with a six-cylinder 2.4-litre engine, was available from 1926 to 1930. Their final car of the 1920s was the three-litre using a 2,931 cc six-cylinder engine. This continued until 1933 when the engine grew to 3,181 cc and was also available with a complex eight-speed Maybach transmission as the Selector Special.\n\nA new model for 1933 was the 16–80 using a two-litre Crossley engine with pre-selector gearbox from 1934. A new small car, the Rapier came along in 1934 with a 1,104 cc engine and pre-selector gearbox. This lasted until 1935 but more were made until 1938 by a separate company, D. Napier & Son of Hammersmith, London. At the other extreme was the near 4.5-litre M45 with a Meadows-supplied six-cylinder, 4,467 cc, engine. A true sporting version, the M45R Rapide, with a tuned M45 engine and a shorter chassis, achieved a controversial Le Mans victory in 1935. Also in 1935 the three-litre grew to a 3.5-litre.\n\nAll was not well financially and the receiver was called in 1935, but the company was bought by Alan P. Good, who just outbid Rolls-Royce. He also persuaded W. O. Bentley to leave Rolls-Royce and join Lagonda as designer along with many of his racing department staff. The 4.5-litre range now became the LG45 with lower but heavier bodies and also available in LG45R Rapide form. The LG45 came in three versions known as Sanction 1, 2 and 3 each with more Bentley touches to the engine. In 1938 the LG6, with independent front suspension by torsion bar and hydraulic brakes, came in.\n\nAlong with ex-Rolls Royce employees, Stuart Tresillian and Charles Sewell, and design expert Frank Feeley, Bentley hid distaste for the primitive conditions of Lagonda's factory, and got to work on the new engine that was to become his masterpiece, the V-12, launched in 1937. The 4,480 cc engine delivered and was said to be capable of going from in top gear and to rev to 5,000 rpm. The car was exhibited at the 1939 New York Motor Show: \"The highest price car in the show this year is tagged $8,900. It is a Lagonda, known as the \"Rapide\" model, imported from England. The power plant is a twelve-cylinder V engine developing 200 horsepower.\"\n\nRichard Watney was managing director of Lagonda at the start of the Second World War:\n\nWatney finished second at Le Mans in 1930 driving a Bentley. He returned to Rootes in 1946, and was posted to Australia. He was killed in a car accident in Melbourne in 1949.\n\nIn 1947, the company was taken over by David Brown and moved in with Aston Martin, which he had also bought, in Feltham, Middlesex. The old Staines works at Egham Hythe passed to Petters Limited, in which A.P. Good had acquired the controlling interest. Production restarted with the last prototypes from Bentley, the 1948 2.6-litre with new chassis featuring fully independent suspension. Its new 2,580 cc twin overhead cam straight-six became the basis for the Aston Martin engines of the 1950s. This was replaced by the 3 litre in 1953 and continued to be available until 1958.\nMany thought that the marque had disappeared, but in 1961 the Rapide name was resurrected, with a four-door saloon based on the contemporary Aston Martin DB4, with an aluminium body by Carrozzeria Touring of Milan and a 3,995 cc engine capable of taking the car to . By this time, Aston Martin-Lagonda as it now was, had moved to Newport Pagnell in Buckinghamshire. The Rapide lasted until 1965.\n\nIn 1969 the Lagonda name was briefly resurrected, appearing on a four-door prototype of the new DBS model. The prototype was allocated chassis MP230/1, and was retained by the factory until 1972 and used by Sir David Brown as his personal car, registered \"JPP 5G\". The car originally ran a prototype five-litre V8 engine but this was quickly replaced by an early 5.3-litre production quad carb version (VS4008EE).\n\nBetween 1974 and 1976, seven Lagonda four-door saloons were produced based on the 1969 prototype. The production models adopted a single-headlight treatment with a Lagonda \"horseshoe\" grille in place of the twin-headlamp treatment of the prototype.\n\nIn 1976 a new Lagonda saloon appeared, the large and futuristic Aston Martin Lagonda designed by William Towns. This low, rather square, wedge-shaped car was built on Aston Martin V8 components and was available until 1990. A total of 645 were built.\n\nAston Martin produced a concept car called the \"Lagonda Vignale\" at the 1993 Geneva Motor Show.\n\nDuring 1993–94, nine Lagonda four-door saloons and seven shooting brakes (badged on the rear door or tailgate as \"Les Vacances\") were made based on a stretched Aston Martin Virage. These are the only factory-built shooting brakes in Aston Martin's history; six were bought by a foreign royal family. They could be ordered with the 5.3-litre V8 (310 HP) or the 6.3-litre V8 (500 HP) engine.\n\nAston Martin said on 1 September 2008, as reported by \"Automotive News Europe\", that it would relaunch its Lagonda brand to help it expand into new markets such as luxury saloons and celebrate Lagonda's centennial anniversary in 2009.\n\n\"The Lagonda brand would allow us to develop cars which can have a different character than a sports car,\" said CEO Ulrich Bez in a statement. \"Lagonda will have its own niche with luxurious and truly versatile products suitable for both existing and emerging markets\".\n\n\"Lagonda models would be vehicles that could be used all year round in markets such as Russia where specialized sports cars such as Aston Martins could only be used for three or four months each year\", said Aston Martin spokeswoman Janette Green.\n\nAt the 2009 Geneva Motor Show, Aston Martin unveiled a 4WD, four-seat SUV to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the first Lagonda car. It includes a V12 engine and 22-inch wheels.\n\nThe \"Rapide\" name was revived in 2010 as the Aston Martin Rapide saloon.\n\nAston Martin confirmed the revival of the Lagonda brand on 9 March 2011. The new range initially consisted primarily of high-end SUVs.\n\nIn 2014, however, Aston Martin announced a large, low-bodied saloon version, the Taraf, a £1 million car powered by a Normally Aspirated V12 producing 565 HP and 465 lb-ft of torque. The Taraf was limited to only 200 production units and is being sold in the UK and US markets, despite initial plans to be offered only in the Middle East.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102839", "title": "Jones Orin York", "text": "Jones Orin York\n\nJones Orin York (August 5, 1893 – July 1970) was recruited in California by Soviet spy Stanislau Shumovskij approximately in 1935. In 1950 York told the FBI that he had passed secrets to the KGB since the mid-1930s, including plans for a new airplane engine of his own design and documents on the newest fighter developed by Northrop Corporation. York told the FBI that his KGB handler during 1941-42 had been Bill Weisband, who had helped him buy a camera for photographing documents. York admitted he was in it for the money, although he received very little. \n\nYork's allegation was disturbing news, implying that the KGB had a mole in the sensitive Armed Forces Security Agency (AFSA). York's code name in Soviet intelligence and in the Venona project is \"NEEDLE\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2102842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102842", "title": "The Monster of Peladon", "text": "The Monster of Peladon\n\nThe Monster of Peladon is the fourth serial of the 11th season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in six weekly parts on BBC1 from 23 March to 27 April 1974.\n\nThe serial is set on the mineral-rich planet Peladon 50 years after the 1972 serial \"The Curse of Peladon\". In the serial, the engineer Eckersley (Donald Gee) and the rogue Ice Warrior Commander Azaxyr (Alan Bennion) conspire to take over the planet and sell its minerals to Peladon's enemies in Galaxy Five.\n\nOn the planet Peladon a power struggle is in place between the trisilicate miners and the ruling class, with miners under the leadership of Gebek and hot-headed Ettis calling for improved conditions. The planet’s ruler Queen Thalira, daughter of the late King Peladon, is sympathetic, but knows her planet is vital to supply the war effort of the Galactic Federation of which it is a member. The Federation is in conflict with the warlike Galaxy Five confederation. The miners become concerned when a vision of Aggedor, the royal beast, starts appearing in the mines and killing miners, including the alien engineer Vega Nexos. Chancellor Ortron tries to convince the Queen this is a sign of displeasure at the alien presence on the planet, but she remains unconvinced.\n\nAnother alien presence reaches the Citadel: the TARDIS, bearing the Third Doctor and Sarah Jane Smith. The Doctor recalls his visit to Peladon fifty years earlier when the planet joined the Galactic Federation, and is pleased to find a familiar face in Alpha Centauri, the Federation Ambassador. The Queen knows of the Doctor from her father and enlists his support in trying to find the cause of the manifestations of Aggedor. He guesses someone is deliberately trying to interrupt trisilicate production, and they seem to have succeeded when the miners decide to strike. Ettis then leads an attack on the Federation armoury and gets weapons for the striking miners. This looks like damaging trisilicate supplies even further, so Engineer Eckersley, a human in charge of the refinery, coaxes Alpha Centauri to send for Federation troops to help restore order.\n\nBoth the miners and the Pel leaders are unhappy with the notion of Federation occupation, especially when the Ice Warrior displays its ruthlessness in shooting down Pels. The sole concern of the force leader, Commander Azaxyr, is to maintain trisilicate production. There is now a realignment in Pel politics: Ortron and Gebek join forces in seeking to rid the planet of the Ice Warriors. Ettis, however, has become crazed and is killed trying to blow up the Citadel. The Ice Warriors now impose martial law on the capital, imprisoning the Queen and her courtiers, and even killing Ortron when he tries to flee.\n\nThe truth is now revealed: Azaxyr and Eckersley are both Galaxy Five agents and have engineered the crisis and occupation as a means to control the trisilicate supply. The Aggedor apparition was just an image created to support the panic. Gebek now leads the Pels in a final assault on the Ice Warriors, and Azaxyr and the other invaders are killed. Eckersley himself is killed by the real Aggedor when he attacks the Queen, though sadly the beast dies in the process. News now reaches Peladon that Galaxy Five has capitulated, its Peladon stratagem exhausted, and Queen Thalira seeks to repair the society when she appoints Gebek her new Chancellor. As ever, the Doctor and Sarah slip away quietly.\n\nThe mineral was named Trisilicate because Barry Letts saw it listed on the back of a tube of Boots Toothpaste as one of the ingredients.\n\nThe character played by Roy Evans is credited as \"Miner\" on-screen, but is named as Rima in dialogue – and is also credited as such in the \"Radio Times\".\n\nBoth Alan Bennion and Sonny Caldinez had regularly appeared as Ice Warriors in their previous appearances, with Bennion playing different \"Ice Lord\" characters in both \"The Seeds of Death\" (1969) and \"The Curse of Peladon\" (1972), while Caldinez had appeared in all three preceding Ice Warrior serials. Additionally, Caldinez had played the mute Kemel in \"The Evil of the Daleks\" (1967). Donald Gee had previously appeared as \"Major Ian Warne\" in \"The Space Pirates\" (1969).\n\nIn \"The Television Companion\" (1998), David J. Howe and Stephen James Walker noted that the serial failed to be a fresh sequel to \"The Curse of Peladon\" because it simply carried many of the same characters and story points, and that it was also unlikely that some of the same characters would still appear fifty years later. They also wrote that the story \"drags awfully,\" and, aside from the Ice Warriors, they criticised the supporting characters. In 2010, Mark Braxton of \"Radio Times\" said that there was a prevailing sense of déjà vu throughout \"The Monster of Peladon\". While he noted that story had its moments, he criticised the casting and felt that Pertwee and Sladen continued to lack rapport. John Sinnott in \"DVD Talk\" gave the serial three out of five stars, feeling that the shift in tone halfway through kept interest while the plot was similar and the subplots were repetitive.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in December 1980.\n\nThe serial was released on VHS on 27 December 1995. It was released on Audio CD with linking narration by Elisabeth Sladen, on 3 March 2008. \"The Monster of Peladon\" was released on DVD on 18 January 2010 in a boxset entitled 'Peladon Tales', along with \"The Curse of Peladon\". This serial was also released as part of the Doctor Who DVD Files in Issue 125 on 16 October 2013.\n"}
{"id": "2102848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102848", "title": "Barby Storage Reservoir", "text": "Barby Storage Reservoir\n\nBarby Storage Reservoir is a reservoir near Barby in Northamptonshire, England, owned and operated by Severn Trent Water. It supplies drinking water to Rugby, being fed by water pumped from Draycote Water.\n"}
{"id": "2102850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102850", "title": "Yngvars saga víðförla", "text": "Yngvars saga víðförla\n\nYngvars saga víðförla (also known as Sagan om Ingwar Widtfarne och hans Son Swen) is a legendary saga said to have been written in the twelfth century by Oddr Snorrason. The tale tells of a Viking expedition to somewhere in southern Russia, probably the present day region of Georgia in the Caucasus.\n\nIt describes what was the last Viking campaign in the Caspian (Caspian Sea) in 1041, adding much legend to the historical facts. This expedition was launched from Sweden by Ingvar the Far-Travelled (Ingvar Vittfarne), who went into the land of the Saracens (Serkland). There, they apparently took part in the Battle of Sasireti in Georgia (1042).\n\nThe earliest extant text is dated to the early 15th century, and is thought to be an Icelandic translation of a Latin text, now lost; the Latin version may have been written by Oddr Snorrason at Þingeyraklaustur in the years preceding 1200. In 1920 Finnur Jónsson only attributed \"Óláfs saga Tryggvasonar\" to Snorrason, but the authorship claim has gained more acceptance over time, with the attribution to 'Odda the Wise' now thought to be the same as Oddr Snorrason. Key arguments for the attribution were made by - one such was that both 'Oddr' and 'Odda' both mention one \"Gizurr Hallsson\" as recipients of \"Olaf's saga\" and \"Yngvar's saga\".\n\nThe story was published in 1762 by N.R. Brocman (Stokholm) as \"Sagan om Ingwar Widtfarne och hans Son Swen\" [The Saga of Ingvar Widtfarne and his son Swen].\n\nThere are many Ingvar Runestones raised in commemoration of warriors who died in the raid, mostly in the Lake Mälaren region of Uppland in Sweden. A stone to Ingvar’s brother indicates that he went east for gold but that he died in Saracen land. \n\nEvidence both archaeological and literary is convincing for a viking (or 'rus') presence in the Caucasus and or Caspian region in the period dated in the tale, as well as substantial circumstantial evidence that may directly related to the events in the tale, including 11th century Arabic sources. The interchange between Scandinavia and Russia, as well as a 'rus' presence, both trading and mercenary, in that region (and in Byzantium) in the period was substantial. Some scholars have attempted to identify the saga with viking (rus) journeys to Byzantium in 1043, not the Caspian in 1041, or even with 'rus' raids on Emirs of the Caucasus between 1030-1033. \n\nThe Georgian Chronicles confirm the presence of Varangians (norsemen) in the area c.1040, though the dating is not completely precise; the chronicles give more details on the activities of a small army of Varangians, and though similarities can be drawn with the saga, a direct association between the two records is not certain, and a very selective interpretive reading is needed to get the two to fit. further analyzed the two historical accounts - he saw no reason \"not\" to conflate the two accounts - finding chronological order matches between the saga text, and likely inferred journey to Georgia, and the historical events - and suggests that the alternative of the Georgian account referring to another 'viking' expedition is relatively unlikely.\n\nOne argument for the theory that the journey was to Byzantium (and not the Caspian) is supported by references to fire being used against their ships and the knowledge of \"Greek fire\" by the Byzantines, which is recorded to have been used in such a way in 1043.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102851", "title": "Vinylshakerz", "text": "Vinylshakerz\n\nVinylshakerz (also known as Vanguard prior to 2005) were a German tech house/electro house act, formed in 2004 and best known for the 2005 remix of the Murray Head hit \"One Night in Bangkok\". The producers have also remixed material for other artists, mainly for dance compilation CDs.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102857", "title": "Prince Carl Christian of Hohenzollern", "text": "Prince Carl Christian of Hohenzollern\n\nPrince Carl Christian of Hohenzollern (; born 5 April 1962) is the eldest child of Prince Johann Georg of Hohenzollern and of his wife Princess Birgitta of Sweden, sister of King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden.\n\nCarl Christian was born in Munich, Bavaria, Germany.\n\nIn 1999 Carl Christian married \"Nicole\" Helene Neschitsch (born 22 January 1968, in Munich). Their civil wedding was held 8 July 1999 in Munich; their religious wedding was held 26 July 1999 in Kreuzpullach. They have one child:\n\nCarl Christian lives in Munich. He works for the ARRI Group, a leading world manufacturer and distributor of motion picture studio lighting, projectors, and cameras.\n\nWith his family, he was a guest at the 2010 wedding of Victoria, Crown Princess of Sweden, and Daniel Westling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102858", "title": "Marvell", "text": "Marvell\n\nMarvell may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102860", "title": "Containment building", "text": "Containment building\n\nA containment building, in its most common usage, is a reinforced steel or lead structure enclosing a nuclear reactor. It is designed, in any emergency, to contain the escape of radioactive steam or gas to a maximum pressure in the range of . The containment is the fourth and final barrier to radioactive release (part of a nuclear reactor's defence in depth strategy), the first being the fuel ceramic itself, the second being the metal fuel cladding tubes, the third being the reactor vessel and coolant system.\n\nEach nuclear plant in the US is designed to withstand certain conditions which are spelled out as \"Design Basis Accidents\" in the Final Safety Analysis Report (FSAR). The FSAR is available for public viewing, usually at a public library near the nuclear plant.\n\nThe containment building itself is typically an airtight steel structure enclosing the reactor normally sealed off from the outside atmosphere. The steel is either free-standing or attached to the concrete missile shield. In the United States, the design and thickness of the containment and the missile shield are governed by federal regulations (10 CFR 50.55a), and must be strong enough to withstand the impact of a fully loaded passenger airliner without rupture.\n\nWhile the containment plays a critical role in the most severe nuclear reactor accidents, it is only designed to contain or condense steam in the short term (for large break accidents) and long term heat removal still must be provided by other systems. In the Three Mile Island accident the containment pressure boundary was maintained, but due to insufficient cooling, some time after the accident, radioactive gas was intentionally let from containment by operators to prevent over pressurization. This, combined with further failures, caused the release of up to 13 million curies of radioactive gas to atmosphere during the accident.\n\nWhile the Fukushima Daiichi plant had operated safely since 1971, an earthquake and tsunami well beyond the design basis resulted in failure of AC power, backup generators and batteries which defeated all safety systems. These systems were necessary to keep the fuel cool after the reactor had been shut down. This resulted in partial or complete meltdown of fuel rods, damage to fuel storage pools and buildings, release of radioactive debris to surrounding area, air and sea, and resorting to the expedient use of fire engines and concrete pumps to deliver cooling water to spent fuel pools and containment. During the incident, pressure within the containments of reactors 1-3 rose to exceed design limits, which despite attempts to reduce pressure by venting radioactive gases, resulted in breach of containment. Hydrogen leaking from the containment mixed with air into an explosive mixture which resulted in explosions in Unit 1, 3 and 4, complicating attempts to stabilize the reactors.\n\nContainment systems for nuclear power reactors are distinguished by size, shape, materials used, and suppression systems. The kind of containment used is determined by the type of reactor, generation of the reactor, and the specific plant needs.\n\nSuppression systems are critical to safety analysis and greatly affect the size of containment. Suppression refers to condensing the steam after a major break has released it from the cooling system. Because decay heat does not go away quickly, there must be some long term method of suppression, but this may simply be heat exchange with the ambient air on the surface of containment. There are several common designs, but for safety-analysis purposes containments are categorized as either \"large-dry\", \"sub-atmospheric\", or \"ice-condenser\".\n\nFor a pressurized water reactor, the containment also encloses the steam generators and the pressurizer, and is the entire reactor building. The missile shield around it is typically a tall cylindrical or domed building. PWR containments are typically large (up to 7 times larger than a BWR) because the containment strategy during the leakage design basis accident entails providing adequate volume for the steam/air mixture that results from a loss-of-coolant-accident to expand into, limiting the ultimate pressure (driving force for leakage) reached in the containment building.\n\nEarly designs including Siemens, Westinghouse, and Combustion Engineering had a mostly can-like shape built with reinforced concrete. As concrete has a very good compression strength compared to tensile, this is a logical design for the building materials since the extremely heavy top part of containment exerts a large downward force that prevents some tensile stress if containment pressure were to suddenly go up. As reactor designs have evolved, many nearly spherical containment designs for PWRs have also been constructed. Depending on the material used, this is the most apparently logical design because a sphere is the best structure for simply containing a large pressure. Most current PWR designs involve some combination of the two, with a cylindrical lower part and a half-spherical top.\n\nThe spent fuel pool is outside of the containment building in most PWR designs except the german.\n\nModern designs have also shifted more towards using steel containment structures. In some cases steel is used to line the inside of the concrete, which contributes strength from both materials in the hypothetical case that containment becomes highly pressurized. Yet other newer designs call for both a steel and concrete containment - which is in decades long use in the current German PWR-designs - notably the AP1000 and the European Pressurized Reactor plan to use both; which gives missile protection by the outer concrete and pressurizing ability by the inner steel structure. The AP1000 has planned vents at the bottom of the concrete structure surrounding the steel structure under the logic that it would help move air over the steel structure and cool containment in the event of a major accident (in a similar way to how a cooling tower works).\n\nThe Russian VVER-1000 design is mostly the same as other modern PWRs in regards to containment, as it is a PWR itself. However, the VVER-440-type has a significant more vulnerable containment, in form of a so-called \"bubble condensor\" with relatively low design pressure.\n\nLight water graphite reactors were built only in the USSR. RBMK designs used secondary containment-like structures, but the reactor's top plate was a part of the protective structure. During the Chernobyl accident in 1986 the plate suffered a pressure beyond the predicted limits and lifted up.\n\nIn a BWR, the containment strategy is a bit different. A BWR's containment consists of a drywell, where the reactor and associated cooling equipment is located, and a wetwell. The drywell is much smaller than a PWR containment and plays a larger role. During the theoretical leakage design basis accident the reactor coolant flashes to steam in the drywell, pressurizing it rapidly. Vent pipes or tubes from the drywell direct the steam below the water level maintained in the wetwell (also known as a torus or suppression pool), condensing the steam, limiting the pressure ultimately reached. Both the drywell and the wetwell are enclosed by a secondary containment building, maintained at a slight sub-atmospheric or negative pressure during normal operation and refueling operations.\n\nCommon containment designs are referred to by the names Mark I, Mark II, and Mark III. The Mark I is the oldest, distinguished by a drywell which resembles an inverted lightbulb above the wetwell which is a steel torus containing water. The Mark II was used with late BWR-4 and BWR-5 reactors. It is called an \"over-under\" configuration with the drywell forming a truncated cone on a concrete slab. Below is a cylindrical suppression chamber made of concrete rather than just sheet metal. Both use a lightweight steel or concrete \"secondary containment\" over the top floor which is kept at a slight negative pressure so that air can be filtered. The top level is a large open space with an overhead crane suspended between the two long walls for moving heavy fuel caskets from the ground floor, and removing / replacing hardware from the reactor and reactor well. The reactor well can be flooded and is straddled by pools separated by gates on either side for storing reactor hardware normally placed above the fuel rods, and for fuel storage. A refueling platform has a specialized telescoping mast for lifting and lowering fuel rod assemblies with precision through the \"cattle chute\" to the reactor core area. The Mark III uses a concrete dome, somewhat like PWRs, and has a separate building for storing used fuel rods on a different floor level. All three types also use the large body of water in the suppression pools to quench steam released from the reactor system during transients.\n\nThe Mark I containment was used in those reactors at the Fukushima I Nuclear Power Plant which were involved in the Fukushima I nuclear accidents. The site suffered from a combination of two beyond design-basis events, a powerful earthquake, which may have damaged reactor plumbing and structures, and 15 meter tsunami, which destroyed fuel tanks, generators and wiring, causing back up generators to fail, and battery-powered pumps also eventually failed. Insufficient cooling and failure of pumps needed to restore water lost to boiling off led to partial or possible complete meltdowns of fuel rods which were completely uncovered by water. This led to releases of significant amounts of radioactive material to the air and sea, and hydrogen explosions. The thin secondary containments were not designed to withstand hydrogen explosions, and suffered blown out or destroyed roofs and walls, and destruction of all equipment on the refueling floor including cranes and refueling platform. Unit 3 suffered a particularly spectacular explosion which created a plume of debris over 300 m high which resulted in a collapse of the north end of the top floor, and buckled concrete columns on its west side as can be seen by aerial photographs. Although they were fitted with modified hardened vent systems to vent hydrogen into exhaust stacks, they may have not been effective without power. Even before the Fukushima incident, Mark I containment had been criticized as being more likely to fail during a blackout.\n\nFrom a distance, the BWR design looks very different from PWR designs because usually a square building is used for the secondary containment. Also, because there is only one loop through the turbines and reactor, and the steam going through the turbines is also radioactive, the turbine building has to be considerably shielded as well. This leads to two buildings of similar construction, with the higher one housing the reactor and the long one housing the turbine hall and supporting structures.\n\nCANDU power stations, named after Canadian-invented Deuterium-Uranium design, make use of a wider variety of containment designs and suppression systems than other plant designs. Due to the nature of the core design, the size of containment for the same power rating is often larger than for a typical PWR, but many innovations have reduced this requirement.\n\nMany multiunit CANDU stations utilize a water spray equipped vacuum building. All individual CANDU units on site are connected to this vacuum building by a large pressure relief duct which is also part of containment. The vacuum building rapidly draws in and condenses any steam from a postulated break, allowing the reactor building pressure to return to subatmospheric conditions. This minimizes any possible fission product release to the environment.\n\nAdditionally, there have been similar designs that use double containment, in which containment from two units are connected allowing a larger containment volume in the case of any major incident. This has been pioneered by one Indian HWR design where a double unit and suppression pool was implemented.\n\nThe most recent CANDU designs, however, call for a single conventional dry containment for each unit.\n\nIn the United States, Title 10 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 50, Appendix A, General Design Criteria (GDC 54-57) or some other design basis provides the basic design criteria for isolation of lines penetrating the containment wall. Each large pipe penetrating the containment, such as the steam lines, has isolation valves on it, configured as allowed by Appendix A; generally two valves. For smaller lines, one on the inside and one on the outside. For large, high-pressure lines, space for relief valves and maintenance considerations cause the designers to install the isolation valves near to where the lines exit containment. In the event of a leak in the high-pressure piping that carries the reactor coolant, these valves rapidly close to prevent radioactivity from escaping the containment. Valves on lines for standby systems penetrating containment are normally closed. The containment isolation valves may also close on a variety of other signals such as the containment high pressure experienced during a high-energy line break (e.g. main steam or feedwater lines). The containment building serves to contain the steam/resultant pressure, but there is typically no radiological consequences associated with such a break at a pressurized water reactor.\n\nDuring normal operation, the containment is air-tight and access is only through marine style airlocks. High air temperature and radiation from the core limit the time, measured in minutes, people can spend inside containment while the plant is operating at full power. In the event of a worst-case emergency, called a \"design basis accident\" in NRC regulations, the containment is designed to seal off and contain a meltdown. Redundant systems are installed to prevent a meltdown, but as a matter of policy, one is assumed to occur and thus the requirement for a containment building. For design purposes, the reactor vessel's piping is assumed to be breached, causing a \"LOCA\" (loss Of coolant accident) where the water in the reactor vessel is released to the atmosphere inside the containment and flashes into steam. The resulting pressure increase inside the containment, which is designed to withstand the pressure, triggers containment sprays (\"dousing sprays\") to turn on to condense the steam and thus reduce the pressure. A SCRAM (\"neutronic trip\") initiates very shortly after the break occurs. The safety systems close non-essential lines into the air-tight containment by shutting the isolation valves. Emergency Core Cooling Systems are quickly turned on to cool the fuel and prevent it from melting. The exact sequence of events depends on the reactor design.\n\nContainment buildings in the U.S. are subjected to mandatory testing of the containment and containment isolation provisions under 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix J. Containment Integrated Leakage Rate Tests (Type \"A\" tests or CILRTs) are performed on a 15-year basis. Local Leakage Rate Tests (Type B or Type C testing, or LLRTs) are performed much more frequently , both to identify the possible leakage in an accident and to locate and fix leakage paths. LLRTs are performed on containment isolation valves, hatches and other appurtenances penetrating the containment. A nuclear plant is required by its operating license to prove containment integrity prior to restarting the reactor after each shutdown. The requirement can be met with satisfactory local or integrated test results (or a combination of both when an ILRT is performed).\n\nIn 1988, Sandia National Laboratories conducted a test of slamming a jet fighter into a large concrete block at . The airplane left only a gouge in the concrete. Although the block was not constructed like a containment building missile shield, it was not anchored, etc., the results were considered indicative. A subsequent study by EPRI, the Electric Power Research Institute, concluded that commercial airliners did not pose a danger.\n\nThe Turkey Point Nuclear Generating Station was hit directly by Hurricane Andrew in 1992. Turkey Point has two fossil fuel units and two nuclear units. Over $90 million of damage was done, largely to a water tank and to a smokestack of one of the fossil-fueled units on-site, but the containment buildings were undamaged.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102864", "title": "Marshall Wright", "text": "Marshall Wright\n\nMarshall Wright is a baseball historian. Born in LaGrange, Illinois and raised in North Riverside, Illinois, he resides in Quincy, Massachusetts.\n\nWright graduated from the Bill Kinnamon Umpire School in 1980. He has been an employee of Howe Sportsdata (now SportsTicker) since 1994.\n\nHe has written several books on the history of minor league baseball. In 1998, he received the Sporting News - SABR Baseball Research Award for his book on the International League.\n\nWright has been a member of the Society for American Baseball Research (SABR) since 1987.\n\nIn 1998, Wright and fellow baseball historian Bill Weiss were chosen by minor league baseball to choose The National Baseball Association's top 100 minor league teams.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102866", "title": "Aston Martin DB2/4", "text": "Aston Martin DB2/4\n\nThe Aston Martin DB2/4 is a grand tourer produced by Aston Martin from 1953 until 1957. It was available as a 2+2 hatchbackSaloon, Drophead Coupé (DHC) and 2-seat Fixed Head Coupé. A small number of Bertone bodied spiders were commissioned by private buyers.\n\nThe DB2/4 was based on the DB2, which it replaced. Changes included a wraparound windscreen, larger bumpers, and repositioned headlights. \n\nThe Lagonda engine, designated the VB6E, was initially the same dual overhead cam straight-6 designed by W. O. Bentley and used in the Vantage version of the DB2. Displacement was 2.6 L (2,580 cc/157 in³), giving 125 hp (93 kW). In September 1953 for the Saloon and in April 1954 for the Drophead, a 2.9 L (2,922 cc/178 in³) VB6J version was used, raising power to 140 hp (104 kW) and maximum speed to 120 mph (193 km/h).\n\nOf the 565 Mark I models produced, 102 were Drophead Coupés.\n\nA 2.9 litre DB2/4 tested by British magazine The Motor in 1954 had a top speed of and accelerated from 0- in 10.5 seconds. A fuel consumption of was recorded. The test car cost £2621 including taxes. \n\nThree works cars were prepared for the 1955 Monte Carlo Rally and two for the Mille Miglia. Aston Martin pursued its competitive ambitions more intently with the DB3, which was designed specifically for sports-car racing.<nowiki></nowiki>\n\nA DB2/4 Mk I Drophead Coupé appeared in the 1963 Alfred Hitchcock film The Birds\n\nThe DB2/4 Mk II model, introduced in 1955, offered an optional large-valve, high compression (8.6:1) 165 hp (123 kW) engine. Other changes included small tailfins, bubble-type tail lights as on the Morris Minor, and added chrome. The bonnet horizontal split line was also changed from door sill height to a line carried backwards from the top of the front wheel arch. \n\nA 2-seat Fixed Head Coupé (FHC) was new, in addition to the continued Drophead. 34 of the 199 Mark II models used this new coupé body, which was the style chosen by David Brown for his own car. Three Mark II chassis were sent to Carrozzeria Touring in Italy to be bodied as Spider models. Touring would later help Aston with the Superleggera design of the DB4.\n\nOne significant behind-the-scenes change for the Mark II was the relocation of coachbuilding responsibilities from Mulliner's of Feltham to Tickford's works in Newport Pagnell. Brown had purchased Tickford in 1954 and would move all of Aston Martin's operations there with the start of DB4 production.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102879", "title": "The Mega Bucks", "text": "The Mega Bucks\n\nThe Mega Bucks were a professional wrestling tag team that competed in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) in 1988. The team, consisting of \"The Million Dollar Man\" Ted DiBiase and André the Giant, was formed in a storyline that saw DiBiase purchase André's contract from fellow manager Bobby Heenan. André was to win the WWF World Heavyweight Championship from Hulk Hogan, but then he attempted to sell the belt to DiBiase. The title was vacated, but DiBiase and André were then scheduled to face Hogan and Macho Man Randy Savage in a match at SummerSlam, which Hogan and Savage won. After the match, DiBiase and André went their separate ways and the team was dissolved.\n\nAndré the Giant and Ted DiBiase had teamed on several occasions when both were signed to the World Wrestling Federation in 1979, when both worked as faces (or good guys). Their first documented teaming together was at an untelevised house show in Totowa, New Jersey, against two of the WWF's top villains of the time, \"High Chief\" Peter Maivia and Greg \"the Hammer\" Valentine; Andre and DiBiase won when Andre pinned Maivia. Andre and DiBiase wrestled WWF Tag Team Champions the Valiant Brothers (Johnny and Jerry) several times for the belts at untelevised house shows, with the Andre-DiBiase team usually winning by countout or disqualification (thus, never winning the belts). At least one Andre-DiBiase teaming was televised, this being a special series of shows taped at the Resorts International Steel Pier in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Andre and DiBiase would frequently team elsewhere through the years, including Japan and other smaller territory promotions, well before the Mega Bucks storyline; none of this was acknowledged by the WWF when DiBiase returned in 1987 under his \"Million-Dollar Man\"/\"evil millionaire\" gimmick and became involved in André's ongoing feud with Hulk Hogan.\n\nAndré and Hogan began feuding in early 1987 when, according to the storyline, André became tired of Hogan being the top wrestler in the WWF and was jealous of Hogan's reign as WWF World Heavyweight Champion and in believing that his own accomplishment of 15 years of never being defeated by pinfall was a more noteworthy accomplishment than Hogan's three years as champion, said it was not acknowledged to his satisfaction. On an episode of Piper's Pit, André turned on Hogan by taking on Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan as his manager—Heenan, a mutual enemy of Hogan and André, had in storyline previously done all he could to destroy André—challenging him to a match for the championship and tearing his T-shirt off him. Hogan and André faced each other in the main event of WrestleMania III on March 29, 1987. Hogan won the match, but the feud remained unsettled.\n\nIn the summer of 1987, DiBiase returned to the WWF after a nearly eight-year absence and took on an \"evil millionaire\" gimmick. After several weeks of building heat for his character, DiBiase announced, during a live in-arena interview during a television taping that November, his intention to buy the WWF World Heavyweight Championship from reigning champion Hulk Hogan. Hogan refused and faced DiBiase in a series of matches instead. After DiBiase lost these matches, he purchased André's contract from Heenan in January 1988. He planned to help André win the title, after which André would present the belt to DiBiase as a gift. André and DiBiase had re-formed their alliance; unlike their previous association as faces, the two were heels seeking to destroy Hogan.\n\nAndré faced Hogan for the title on the February 5, 1988 broadcast of \"The Main Event I\", with Dave Hebner as the scheduled referee. André pinned Hogan to win the championship and handed the belt to DiBiase. The pinfall was controversial, however, as Hogan's shoulders were not on the mat when the referee made the three count. After the match, the real Dave Hebner, who looked identical to referee that had officiated the match, ran to the ring to attack the impostor referee. Hulk Hogan then threw the impostor out of the ring onto DiBiase and his bodyguard Virgil. According to the storyline, DiBiase had paid an unnamed referee to get plastic surgery to look exactly like Dave Hebner. In reality, the second referee was Dave's twin brother Earl Hebner, who was making his on-screen debut with the WWF.\n\nBoth prior to and after \"The Main Event\" match, André and DiBiase teamed several times against Hogan and (usually) Bam Bam Bigelow; on several occasions, Virgil, who was working as DiBiase's bodyguard, replaced André as DiBiase's tag team partner, although the Giant regularly appeared in DiBiase's corner. Hogan and Bigelow won every one of these matches.\n\nThe controversy surrounding the WWF World Heavyweight Championship title change and André's gifting it to DiBiase resulted in President Jack Tunney declaring the WWF World Heavyweight Championship vacant and booking a 14-man tournament at WrestleMania IV to determine the new champion. In the tournament, André and Hogan were booked to face each other. Their match ended in a double disqualification, and both men were eliminated from the tournament. Meanwhile, André interfered in DiBiase's matches, which helped DiBiase make it to the final match, in which he faced \"Macho Man\" Randy Savage. After André got involved to help DiBiase, Hogan came to the ring to even the odds. Savage won the match and the championship, and the rivalry led to a match being booked between The Mega Powers (Hogan and Savage) and The Mega Bucks (DiBiase and André). After WrestleMania IV, Andre returned to The Heenan Family, with the explanation that Heenan purchased his contract back at a profit, but his association with DiBiase continued.\n\nThe Mega Powers-Mega Bucks feud simmered during the next few months, as Hogan took a leave of absence from the WWF (to film \"No Holds Barred\") and André was placed in a feud with \"Hacksaw\" Jim Duggan. DiBiase, meanwhile, became a top contender for Savage's WWF World Heavyweight Championship.\n\nThe feud returned to full boil following events at a television taping for \"WWF Superstars of Wrestling\" June 21, 1988, in Glens Falls, New York. There, during a podium interview with Craig DeGeorge, Savage—apparently victorious over DiBiase in their feud—threw out a request for future contenders when André (accompanied by Heenan) came out to challenge Savage for the World Heavyweight Championship, taunting him and making a choking motion. Before Savage could accept André's challenge, DiBiase ran into the arena sneak-attack Savage. Virgil grabbed Savage's valet, Miss Elizabeth, and forced her to watch as Savage was triple-teamed by DiBiase, Andre and Heenan. Savage quickly recovered and demanded a tag team match with a mystery partner against André and DiBiase, the match to be the main event of the inaugural SummerSlam; Savage's partner was later revealed to be the returning Hulk Hogan. With the Hogan-Savage team expected to use their \"Mega Powers\" name, DiBiase and André would team using the \"Mega Bucks\" name.\n\nAfter weeks of exchanging taunts and each side predicting victory for their side, the two teams faced off at SummerSlam. Jesse Ventura had been appointed as a supposedly impartial guest referee by Jack Tunney. It was strongly hinted leading up the event that Ventura, who provided commentary for many WWF events and was a strong critic of Hulk Hogan but yet was a supporter of Randy Savage even (if only to a somewhat lesser extent) during his face days, had been paid an undisclosed amount by DiBiase.\n\nThe Mega Powers took the early advantage over DiBiase, but after Hogan attacked André on the ring apron, the Mega Bucks were able to regain control. After several minutes and several advantage changes, all four began brawling, with DiBiase and André getting the upper hand and throwing both Hogan and Savage from the ring. At this point, Elizabeth jumped on the ring apron and began arguing with Ventura. With DiBiase and André pleading with Ventura to take drastic measures to get Elizabeth off the ring, she eventually tore off her skirt and threw it into DiBiase's face. In the ensuing chaos, Hogan and Savage recovered and mounted a comeback, which saw André knocked out of the ring and DiBiase take both the Mega Powers' finishing moves—Savage's flying elbow and Hogan's legdrop—before taking the pinfall loss. While counting the pinfall, Ventura stopped counting at two and hesitated until Savage pushed Ventura's hand to the mat to complete the three count.\n\nThis match marked the end of the feud between Hulk Hogan and André the Giant that had dominated WWF programming for over 18 months though the two would face off several more times In single matches that October. The two would face off for the last time 6 months later, just weeks prior to Wrestlemania VI when the then-WWF World Tag Team Champions The Colossal Connection Andre and Haku faced then-WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan and the Big Boss man at a house show. In the weeks after the match, André feuded with other upper-card wrestlers such as Savage and Jake Roberts. Hogan and Savage continued to feud with DiBiase for the remainder of the year before moving on to a new feud with the Twin Towers (Big Boss Man and Akeem).\n\nAlthough the tag team of The Mega Bucks was short-lived, DiBiase and André appeared in the 1989 arcade game \"WWF Superstars\" as the game's boss tag team. Hints the two still were associated with each other came as late as WrestleMania V, when DiBiase interfered in André's match against Roberts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102881", "title": "Forrest Pogue", "text": "Forrest Pogue\n\nForrest Carlisle Pogue Jr. (September 17, 1912 – October 6, 1996) was an official United States Army historian during World War II. He was a proponent of oral history techniques, and collected many oral histories from the war under the direction of chief Army historian S. L. A. Marshall. Forrest Pogue was for many years the Executive Director of the George C. Marshall Foundation as well as Director of the Marshall Library located on the campus of Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia.\n\nForrest C. Pogue was born in Eddyville, Kentucky. His grandparents, Marion Forrest Pogue and Betty Matthews Pogue, were farmers, and the young Pogue spent much of his early life in Frances, Kentucky, where the Pogue family owned a tract of land. He attended Murray State College, and received his master's degree from the University of Kentucky, as well as a doctorate from Clark University in 1939. Pogue spent a year at the University of Paris, and was fluent in French. Pogue married Christine Brown Pogue. \nPogue worked at Murray State, teaching history from June 1933 to May 1942. He was a widely sought speaker, averaging around sixty speeches a year. until he was drafted into the Army in 1942 and promoted to sergeant. He was sent to Fort McClellan and received basic training until being reassigned to a historical unit and made responsible for writing a history of the Second United States Army, and in 1944 was sent to England. He was sent to Normandy to interview wounded soldiers. He worked on the project for eleven months, and was present at the Battle of the Bulge. For his work, he was awarded the Bronze Star Medal and Croix de Guerre. He was discharged in October 1945, and hired as a civilian, with the pay of a colonel.\n\nPogue was first assigned to write a history of the Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force from 1945 to 1946. In July he was assigned by Dwight D. Eisenhower to write an official history of the Supreme Command in Europe. For the book, he interviewed Dwight D. Eisenhower, Omar Bradley, Charles de Gaulle, Alan Brooke and others. Pogue then spent seven years as a military historian, and two conducting operations research at United States Army Garrison Heidelberg with the Operations Research Office at Johns Hopkins University. He contributed to <nowiki>\"The Meaning of Yalta\"</nowiki> among several other books, returning to Murray State in 1954.\n\nIn 1956, Pogue was hired by the George C. Marshall Foundation to write the official biography of George Marshall. From 1963 to 1987, he worked on the four volume biography, and read over 3.5 million pages of research material while completing his work on Marshall. He became director of the Marshall Foundation in 1956, leaving in 1974 to become director of the Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research. Pogue retired in 1984. He served as a guest lecturer at George Washington University and the United States Army War College, held the Mary Moody Northen chair in Arts and Sciences at Virginia Military Institute in 1972. Pogue was on the Advisory boards for the Office of Naval History, the Naval Historical Office, the United States Army Center of Military History, the Air Force Historical Research Agency, president of the Oral History Association and the American Military Institute and other organizations. The Pogue Library at Murray State is named after Forrest C. Pogue. He died on October 6, 1996 in Murray, Kentucky.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102889", "title": "List of endemic birds of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands", "text": "List of endemic birds of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands\n\nThis is a list of endemic birds of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. It is one of a series providing information about endemism among birds in the world's various zoogeographic zones.\n\nBirdLife International has defined the following as Endemic Bird Areas:\n\n\nThe following is a list of species endemic to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, India:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102890", "title": "Perry Barr Reservoir", "text": "Perry Barr Reservoir\n\nPerry Barr Reservoir is a covered drinking water reservoir, in north Birmingham, England. Built on the site of the former Perry Barr Farm, it is not, despite its name, in the modern Perry Barr area, but nearby Kingstanding, at .\n\nThe reservoir is supplied by gravity from The Elan Valley, via Frankley Water Treatment Works and the trunk mains system.\n\nThe reservoir holds 83 million litres of water and supplies areas such as Kingstanding, Perry Barr, Great Barr and Witton.\n\nWhen built, it was in open countryside, but its surroundings are now urban. There are two old, matching signs at the entrance. One reads:\n\nthe other:\n\nIn August 2013, Severn Trent launched a £2 million project to build a 2 1/2 mile pipeline linking the reservoir to South Staffordshire Water's Barr Beacon Reservoir, to allow for the exchange of water in emergencies such as severe droughts.\n"}
{"id": "2102892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102892", "title": "Sad Eyed Lady of the Lowlands", "text": "Sad Eyed Lady of the Lowlands\n\n\"Sad Eyed Lady of the Lowlands\" is a song by Bob Dylan. First released as the closing track on Dylan's 1966 album \"Blonde on Blonde\", the song lasts 11 minutes and 22 seconds, occupying the entire side four of the double album. Dylan has revealed that the song was written about his future wife, Sara Lownds. \n\nBob Dylan began to record the \"Blonde on Blonde\" album in New York in October 1965. Frustrated by the slow progress in the studio, Dylan agreed to the suggestion of his producer Bob Johnston and moved to Columbia's A Studio on Music Row, Nashville, Tennessee, in February 1966. Bringing with him Robbie Robertson on guitar and Al Kooper on keyboards, Dylan commenced recording with the cream of Nashville session players.\n\nOn February 15, the session began at 6 p.m., but Dylan simply sat in the studio working on his lyrics, while the musicians played cards, napped, and chatted. Finally, at 4 a.m., Dylan called the musicians in and outlined the structure of the song. Dylan counted off and the musicians fell in, as he attempted his epic composition, \"Sad Eyed Lady of the Lowlands\". Drummer Kenny Buttrey recalled, \"If you notice that record, that thing after like the second chorus starts building and building like crazy, and everybody's just peaking it up 'cause we thought, Man, this is it...This is gonna be the last chorus and we've gotta put everything into it we can. And he played another harmonica solo and went back down to another verse and the dynamics had to drop back down to a verse kind of feel...After about ten minutes of this thing we're cracking up at each other, at what we were doing. I mean, we peaked five minutes ago. Where do we go from here?\" The finished song clocked in at 11 minutes, 23 seconds, and would occupy the entire fourth side of the album.\n\nFour takes of the song were recorded, three of which were complete. The recording session was released in its entirety on the 18-disc Collector's Edition of \"\" in 2015, with the first take of the song also appearing on the 6-disc version of that album.\n\nThe technique employed by Dylan to write the song was to construct the verses as a series of \"lists\" of the attributes of the eponymous Sad Eyed Lady. These \"lists\" are complemented by a sequence of rhetorical questions about the Lady which are never answered within the song. Thus, the first verse runs:\n\nMany critics have noted the similarity of 'Lowlands' to 'Lownds', the name of Dylan's wife Sara, and Dylan biographer Robert Shelton wrote that \"Sad Eyed Lady\" was a \"wedding song\" for Sara Lownds, whom Dylan had married just three months earlier. Her maiden name was Shirley Noznisky, and her father, Isaac Noznisky, was a scrap metal dealer in Wilmington, Delaware. Critics have noted the link between \"sheet metal memories of Cannery Row\" and the business of Sara's father, as well as the quote \"with your sheets like metal and your belts like lace\". Similarly the line \"your magazine husband who one day just had to go\" could be a reference to Sara's first husband, magazine photographer Hans Lownds.\n\nWritten over the space of eight hours in the CBS recording studio in Nashville, on the night of February 15–16, \"Sad Eyed Lady\" eventually occupied the whole of side four of \"Blonde On Blonde\". In his paean to his wife, \"Sara\", written in 1975, Dylan amends history slightly when he sings:\n\nWhen Dylan played Shelton the song, shortly after recording it, he claimed, \"This is the best song I've ever written.\" Around the same time, Dylan enthused to journalist Jules Siegel, \"Just listen to that! That's old-time religious carnival music!\" However, in 1969, Dylan confessed to \"Rolling Stone\"s editor, Jann Wenner, \"I just sat down at a table and started writing...And I just got carried away with the whole thing...I just started writing and I couldn’t stop. After a period of time, I forgot what it was all about, and I started trying to get back to the beginning [\"laughs\"].\"\n\nBecause the song was recorded at around four in the morning, critic Andy Gill feels the work has a nocturnal quality similar to \"Visions of Johanna\". Gill comments on the \"measured grace and stately pace\" of the song's rhythm, characterising the mood of the song as \"as much funeral procession as wedding march\". Gill notes that, though the song has its share of enigmatic imagery, there is no trace of the jokey nihilism that marks out much of the rest of \"Blonde on Blonde\". \"This time around\", writes Gill, \"it's serious.\"\n\nHeard by some listeners as a hymn to an other-worldly woman, for Shelton \"her travails seem beyond endurance, yet she radiates an inner strength, an ability to be re-born. This is Dylan at his most romantic.\" Writing about \"Sad Eyed Lady\", historian Sean Wilentz comments that Dylan's writing had shifted from the days when he asked questions and supplied answers. Like the verses of William Blake's \"Tyger\", Dylan asks a series of questions about the \"Sad Eyed Lady\" but never supplies any answers.\n\nCritic Clinton Heylin has described \"Sad Eyed Lady\" as both \"possibly the most pretentious set of lyrics ever penned\", but also \"a captivating carousel of a performance\". Heylin suggests that Dylan was driven to try to create a song that would reach a new level of writing and performance. Heylin quotes from Dylan's San Francisco press conference on December 3, 1965, when he stated he was interested in \"writing [a] symphony... with different melodies and different words, different ideas... which just roll on top of each other... the end result being a total[ity]... They say my songs are long now. Some time [I'm] just gonna come up with one that's gonna be the whole album.\" This ambitious plan ultimately gave birth to \"Sad Eyed Lady\", a song Heylin describes as \"a thirteen minute one-trick pony.\"\n\nDylan scholar Michael Gray expressed a similarly contradictory attitude to \"Sad Eyed Lady\". In his book \"Song & Dance Man III\", Gray writes of the song's imagery: \"Dylan is... cooing nonsense in our ears, very beguilingly of course. The only thing that unites the fragments is the mechanical device of the return to the chorus and thus to the title... It is, in the end, not a whole song at all but unconnected chippings, and only the poor cement of an empty chorus and a regularity of tune gives the illusion that things are otherwise.\"\n\nIn a footnote to this passage, written later, Gray adds: \"When I read this assessment now, I simply feel embarrassed at what a little snob I was when I wrote it... When I go back and listen, after a long gap, to Dylan's recording, every ardent, true feeling I ever had comes back to me. Decades of detritus drop away and I feel back in communion with my best self and my soul. Whatever the shortcomings of the lyric, the recording itself, capturing at its absolute peak Dylan's incomparable capacity for intensity of communication, is a masterpiece if ever there was one.\"\n\nMusicologist Wilfrid Mellers writes that \"Sad Eyed Lady\" stands with \"Mr. Tambourine Man\" as \"perhaps the most insidiously haunting pop song of our time\". Mellers claims that Dylan has succeeded in concentrating contradictory qualities into the Lady: \"It's impossible to tell... whether the Lady is a creature of dream or nightmare; but she's beyond good and evil as the cant phrase has it, only in the sense that the simple, hypnotic, even corny waltz tune contains... both fulfilment and regret. Mysteriously, the song even erases Time. Though chronologically it lasts nearly 20 minutes (\"sic\"), it enters a mythological once-upon-a-time where the clock doesn't tick.\"\n\nLiterary critic Christopher Ricks compares both the imagery and the meter of “Sad Eyed Lady” to a poem by Swinburne, “Dolores”, published in 1866. Ricks describes Swinburne’s poem as an “anti-prayer to his anti-madonna, an interrogation that hears no need why it should ever end”. Ricks writes that “Dolores moves…’To a tune that enthralls and entices’, as does ‘Sad Eyed Lady of the Lowlands’.” Ricks makes the point that “Dolores” “insists upon listing… all of her energies, her incitements and excitements, her accoutrements, her weapons” as does “Sad Eyed Lady”. Ricks describes the way in which Dylan’s song attributes so many objects and qualities to the Sad Eyed Lady as “part inventory, part arsenal, these returns of phrases are bound by awe of her and by suspicion of her”.\n\nReferring to the phrase repeated in the chorus of the song, “Sad eyed lady of the lowlands/ Where the sad eyed prophet says that no man comes”, Ricks suggests that the prophet Ezekiel is relevant, noting that the phrase “no man” occurs several times in the Book of Ezekiel. Ricks also notes several references to “gates” in that Book, as in Dylan’s song. “This gate shall be shut, it shall not be opened, and no man may enter in by it.” Ezekiel 44:2. Dylan’s song alludes to “the kings of Tyrus”, and Ricks points out that, in the Book of Ezekiel, Tyrus is described as “a merchant of the people for many isles” (Ezekiel 27:3); this chapter of Ezekiel lists the many commodities and luxuries which Tyrus trades in, including silver, gold, spices, precious stones, emeralds, ebony and ivory. Thus, for Ricks, Tyrus is “one huge warehouse of hubris”, but there is a force that can outwait the kings of Tyrus, “the Lord, he who speaks through his propher Ezekiel of the doom to come”.\n\nThe musicians involved in recording \"Sad Eyed Lady of the Lowlands\" in February 1966 are:\n\nDylan has never performed this song in concert. However, during the \"Woman In White\" sequence of Dylan's film \"Renaldo And Clara\", a live performance of the song can be heard in the background. Heylin writes that Dylan, accompanied by Scarlet Rivera on violin, Rob Stoner on bass, and Howie Wyeth on drums, recorded this version at a rehearsal during The Rolling Thunder Revue in 1975.\n\nJoan Baez covered this song on her 1968 album of Dylan songs \"Any Day Now\". Steve Howe also covered this song on his 1999 album \"Portraits of Bob Dylan\" with fellow Yes member Jon Anderson on lead vocals. Richie Havens covered this song on his 1974 album \"Mixed Bag II\".\n\nAlternative French band Phoenix recorded a live five-minute acoustic cover for the German magazine \"Musikexpress\" via The Tripwire in January 2010.\n\nIn his autobiography, \"I, Me, Mine\", published in 1980, George Harrison says that the chord changes of \"Sad Eyed Lady\" influenced the music of Harrison's Beatles song Long, Long, Long, which he wrote and recorded in October 1968 for the album \"The Beatles\", sometimes known as \"The White Album\". Harrison wrote: \"I can't recall much about it except the chords, which I think were coming from \"Sad Eyed Lady of the Lowlands\" – D to E minor, A, and D – those three chords and the way they moved.\"\n\nTom Waits said of \"Sad Eyed Lady of the Lowlands\" in 1991: \"It is like \"Beowulf\" and it 'takes me out to the meadow'. This song can make you leave home, work on the railroad or marry a Gypsy. I think of a drifter around a fire with a tin cup under a bridge remembering a woman's hair. The song is a dream, a riddle and a prayer.\"\n\nIn a radio interview with Howard Stern on January 18, 2012, former Pink Floyd bassist and songwriter Roger Waters revealed: \"'Sad Eyed Lady of the Lowlands' sort of changed my life. When I heard that, I thought, if Bob can do [such a lengthy song], I can do it... it's a whole album. And it in no way gets dull or boring. You just get more and more engrossed. It becomes more and more hypnotic, the longer it goes on.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2102898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102898", "title": "The Ambassadors of Death", "text": "The Ambassadors of Death\n\nThe Ambassadors of Death is the third serial of the seventh season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in seven weekly parts on BBC1 from 21 March to 2 May 1970. Written by Trevor Ray, Terrance Dicks and Malcolm Hulke (though solely credited to David Whitaker), the serial was directed by Michael Ferguson.\n\nThe serial is set in London, Hertfordshire and the Earth's orbit. In the serial, the alien time traveller the Third Doctor (Jon Pertwee) and the international organisation UNIT investigate the disappearance of astronauts who have lost contact with Earth. They become involved in a conspiracy and meet alien ambassadors who have been sent to Earth, who seem to have ill intentions.\n\nWith the United Nations Intelligence Taskforce providing security, the British space programme under Professor Ralph Cornish oversees the launch of the Recovery Seven probe. This has been sent into Earth orbit to make contact with the missing Mars Probe Seven and its two astronauts, who lost contact with Earth eight months earlier. The pilot of Recovery Seven, Van Lyden, makes contact with the Mars probe but is then silenced by a piercing unearthly sound. The noise troubles the Third Doctor who travels with his assistant Liz to the Space Centre to investigate, offering insights into the origin and meaning of the sounds, which he interprets as coded messages. He also identifies a reply sent from Earth, which is triangulated as coming from a warehouse seven miles away. Led by Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart, UNIT troops attack the warehouse and engage in a gun battle with troops commanded by General Charles Carrington.\n\nMeanwhile, Recovery Seven has returned to Earth. But whilst UNIT is transporting it to the Space Centre more of Carrington's troops stage an ambush and hijack it. The Doctor locates it, by which time it is empty. Carrington has ensured the occupants—three space-suited astronauts—are detained elsewhere and is feeding them with radiation to keep them alive. Carrington is now introduced to the Doctor by Sir James Quinlan, the Minister for Technology, as head of the newly formed Space Security Department. Carrington says his actions were to protect the astronauts, as they have been infected with contagious radiation. Quinlan states the government did not want the public to become panic-stricken and reveals that Carrington has been acting with government authority.\n\nBy the time Carrington takes the Doctor to meet the astronauts a criminal named Reegan has organised their abduction, killing the soldiers and scientists guarding them. When the Doctor and Liz examine the site, they realise that human tissue could not have withstood the degree of radiation being emitted by the mysteriously irradiated astronauts. The Doctor believes the real astronauts are still in orbit, and that the three space suits contain alien beings. Reegan engineers the kidnapping of Liz Shaw to aid his own scientist, Lennox, a disgraced Cambridge professor, in keeping the alien astronauts alive. Reegan has even been supplied with a device to communicate with the aliens and sends them to the Space Centre to kill Quinlan. It now becomes clear to UNIT that the aliens are emitting radiation like walking reactors, and that to touch them brings instant death. It is also evident, to Liz, that Reegan is taking orders from someone else. She helps Lennox escape, and he tries to reach the Brigadier, but his bid for freedom is cut short by Reegan's merciless revenge.\n\nRalph Cornish is determined to launch another spacecraft to retrieve his astronauts, who the Doctor believes are still in the Mars Probe capsule in Earth orbit. The Doctor volunteers to pilot the rocket himself. As he prepares to blast off, Reegan tries to sabotage the mission by tampering with the fuel, but the Doctor survives and succeeds in piloting the craft to its scheduled rendezvous in Earth orbit, but at the last moment an enormous spacecraft bears down on the two linked capsules and engulfs them. Aboard the alien spaceship, the Doctor discovers the three human astronauts, unharmed, but they have been mentally conditioned to believe they are in extended quarantine at Space Control on Earth. An alien being reveals itself and explains the humans are being held pending the safe return of the alien ambassadors, who have been sent to Earth to make peaceful contact with mankind. The Doctor assures the alien commander that the authorities on Earth knew nothing of this and gives his personal guarantee to return the ambassadors safely. The alien commander threatens to destroy the world if the ambassadors are harmed.\n\nWhen the Doctor touches down, he is kidnapped by Reegan, who reunites him with Liz. Reegan's paymaster, and the real organiser of the situation, is revealed: General Carrington. The General's actions have been prompted by paranoia, arising from his own encounter with the aliens when he was an astronaut on Mars Probe Six, where he witnessed his co-pilot, Daniels, killed by merely touching one of them. Carrington's mind is broken: he has lured the three aliens to Earth in order to expose them on television and intends to call on the nations of the world to attack them. The use of the ambassadors to kill was done simply to arouse public opinion against them. But Carrington is so mentally disturbed by his experiences that he cannot grasp the fact that the aliens can destroy the world and cannot be defeated.\n\nCarrington departs for the Space Centre, where he aims to unmask the ambassadors before the eyes of the world on an international TV hookup—and then call on the powers of the Earth to destroy their spaceship. No one else knows what Carrington intends to say on TV: his plan calls for a surprise revelation of the alien nature of the space-suited figures. But the Doctor manages to send a radio message, and the Brigadier and UNIT soldiers rescue him and Liz, and also apprehend Reegan and his thugs. They race to the Space Centre where the Brigadier arrests Carrington before he can make his broadcast. He is taken away, protesting that he was only performing his moral duty. The Doctor arranges for Ralph Cornish and Liz to return the ambassadors to their own people so that the three human astronauts can be released.\n\nThis story was initially developed to feature the Second Doctor and his last companions, Jamie McCrimmon and Zoe Heriot. As such, it was set well into the future, and did not include UNIT. When all three actors left the programme at the end of the sixth season, it was rewritten to fit the consequential revamp. Original script editor David Whitaker proved incapable of writing for the incoming new format and cast, hence the contributions of Trevor Ray, Terrance Dicks and Malcolm Hulke. All concerned parties agreed to leave sole credit to Whitaker and this was the last \"Doctor Who\" serial with his name on it. In an interview years later, Terrance Dicks recounted the experience of rewriting Whitaker's story:\n\nWorking titles for this story included \"The Invaders from Mars\" (later the title of a Big Finish Productions audio drama), and \"The Carriers of Death\". The opening titles of this story start with the normal music and graphics, yet immediately fade after the \"Doctor Who\" title caption. There is a short \"teaser\" for episode one, and episodes 2–7 feature a reprise of the previous episode's cliffhanger. This is followed by a \"scream\", accompanied by a zoom-in on the words \"The Ambassadors\", concluding with \"of Death\", and a \"zap\" effect. The experiment was not repeated after this story. This was the first story to feature the sting or \"scream\" into the end title theme. It was added by Brian Hodgson of the BBC Radiophonic Workshop to improve and shape the closing credits.\n\nLocation filming took place during January and February 1970 at Blue Circle Cement in Kent, Marlow Weir in Buckinghamshire, Southall Gas Works in Middlesex, and various sites in Aldershot, Hampshire. Studio recording then took place during February and March 1970. The alien underneath the spacesuit was achieved by layering the actor's face with blue make-up, tissue and latex rubber. Because it was uncomfortable for the actors, the make-up was applied shortly before they had to go on set. As the story was supposed to take place in the late 1970s, the spacesuit was designed as a futuristic version. Caroline John's husband, Geoffrey Beevers, briefly appears as a UNIT radio operator, credited as \"Private Johnson\".\n\nRonald Allen had appeared the previous season as one of the eponymous antagonists in \"The Dominators\" (1968). Michael Wisher would go on to appear on screen in \"Terror of the Autons\" (1971) and \"Carnival of Monsters\" (1973), as well as being one of the regular Dalek voice artists during the Pertwee era, before becoming the first actor to play Davros in \"Genesis of the Daleks\" (1975). Geoffrey Beevers (husband of Caroline John) would later play the Master in \"The Keeper of Traken\" (1981) and a number of Big Finish Productions audio plays. William Dysart had previously appeared in \"The Highlanders\" (1967). Peter Halliday, who provided the voices of the aliens, and also supplied the voices of the Silurians in the previous story, had first appeared in \"Doctor Who\" in \"The Invasion\" the previous season, and would later appear in \"Carnival of Monsters\" (alongside Michael Wisher), \"City of Death\" (1979) and \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" (1988). Cyril Shaps previously played Viner in \"The Tomb of the Cybermen\" (1967), and would subsequently appear with Jon Pertwee in \"Planet of the Spiders\" (1974) and with Tom Baker in \"Androids of Tara\" (1978).\n\nCultural historian James Chapman has written about connections between this \"Doctor Who\" serial and earlier science-fiction TV programmes. \"The Quatermass Experiment\" (1953), for example, has a similar storyline concerning astronauts endangering humanity after coming into contact with extraterrestrials. Chapman also refers to the 1960s Gerry Anderson series \"Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons\", whose eponymous aliens are another race of malevolent Martians.\n\nPatrick Mulkern of \"Radio Times\" noted that the script revisions caused an \"uneven plot\" and anticlimax, and wrote that the \"narrative feels extemporised, a bumpy, sometimes thrilling ride, but one with no clear end in sight\". However, he praised the cliffhangers and direction as well as the acting of Pertwee and John. \"The A.V. Club\" reviewer Christopher Bahn stated that \"The Ambassadors of Death\" was the \"weakest\" entry in a very good season, noting that it \"spins its wheels\" in the middle, but filled the time with impressive stunts. He felt that the problem was that Carrington's motivation was not revealed until the cliffhanger of the sixth episode, despite it being obvious since the first episode. Ian Berriman, reviewing the DVD release for \"SFX\", gave the serial three out of five stars. He described it as a \"hit and miss\", finding the early episodes \"promising\" but then he felt the story did not have enough plot to carry on for seven episodes, and keeping track of the conspiracy between the various characters was \"tedious and confusing\". DVD Talk's John Sinnot rated \"The Ambassadors of Death\" as three stars out of five, describing it as \"generally fun adventure\" despite it lasting a couple episodes too long. He was positive towards the Doctor's characterisation and the Ambassadors, who he described as \"a great low-budget creature that actually looks more menacing than silly\", but felt \"there are a few too many plot twist and the result is a script with some pretty major holes in it\".\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in May 1987 and was the final Third Doctor serial to be adapted.\n\nAlthough the entire story was made on colour videotape, only the first episode was retained in this format. In fact, it is the earliest episode that survives in the series' original videotaped format, either in colour or black and white. The remaining six episodes were retained only as black-and-white film recordings and poor-quality domestic colour recordings made from a US transmission in the 1970s. This recording was severely affected by rainbow-coloured patterns of interference that at times overtook the entire picture.\n\nIn May 2002, a restoration project for the story's VHS release combined the usable colour information from the domestic recordings with the black and white picture from the film prints, creating a high-quality colour picture. All told, over half of the serial's running time is presented in colour, including all of episodes 1 and 5, and sections from 2, 3, 6 and 7. The remaining footage, including all of episode 4, was deemed unsuitable for restoration, and so remained in black-and-white.\n\nIn 2009, a commentary for the future DVD release was recorded, including Caroline John, Nicholas Courtney, Michael Ferguson, Peter Halliday, Derek Ware and Terrance Dicks. The January 2011 edition of \"Wired UK\" magazine, published in December 2010 carried a full-page article on the recolourisation of the story. It was stated in the article that the Restoration Team expected to deliver a fully restored colour version of the story to the BBC \"within weeks\". In issue 430 of \"Doctor Who Magazine\" the DVD was announced but later set back due to restoration difficulties. The release was delayed until 2012 when \"Doctor Who Magazine\" issue 449 confirmed that the full-colour version would soon be out on DVD. It was later announced that the story would be released on DVD on 1 October 2012. Among the special features on the DVD is a documentary entitled \"Mars Probe 7: Making The Ambassadors of Death.\" Although David Whitaker is the sole credited writer on the actual episodes, the DVD sleeve credits \"The Ambassadors of Death\" as being written by David Whitaker, Malcolm Hulke and Trevor Ray.\n\nThe original soundtrack for this serial was released on CD in the UK in August 2009. The linking narration was provided by Caroline John.\n\nA book length study of the serial, written by LM Myles, was published as part of The Black Archive series from Obverse Books in 2016.\n\nThe serial was covered in number 15 of the book series, which reprinted Andrew Pixley's \"Archive\" features from \"Doctor Who Magazine\" and the various \"Doctor Who Magazine Special Editions\", as well as new articles created specifically for the book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102912", "title": "Tub Ring", "text": "Tub Ring\n\nTub Ring is a Chicago-based rock band.\n\nTub Ring was formed in 1992 by Jason Fields, Kevin Gibson, Chris \"Mouse\" Blake, and Geoff Valker as a high school experimental rock band. After the passing of their manager, Lee Swanson in 1994, the band lineup changed and really took form with addition of Keyboard instrument player, Rob Kleiner. Kleiner spent his teenage years following around the band Mr. Bungle. With Kleiner added to the band, Tub Ring adopted a similar sound to that of Mr. Bungle. Mr. Bungle guitarist Trey Spruance took note of Kleiner's passion and creativity and ended up producing their first official full-length album, Drake Equation. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, Tub Ring associated with the bands Dog Fashion Disco and Mindless Self Indulgence. Aforementioned musical collaborations include when Rob Kleiner filled in for Mindless Self Indulgence's injured guitarist (Steve, Righ?) on the road in 2004 and 2005. On December 10, 2005, Tub Ring came in second place during MTV2's \"Dew Circuit Breakout\" competition. Tub Ring performed two songs throughout the competition including \"Future Was Free\" as well as a cover of Justin Timberlake's \"Rock Your Body\". On October 17, 2006, it was announced on experimental metal/rock record label The End Records's official website that the band had signed with them. The band released their album, The Great Filter in May 2007. On August 31, 2010, Tub ring released their fifth studio album, Secret Handshakes. On October 31, 2016 an announcement was made on the Tub Ring Facebook page that they would be releasing a best of album and a brand new EP in May 2017 backed by a Kickstarter campaign. On November 2, the Kickstarter goal had been reached, and the band later confirmed that they would release a new full-length album instead of an EP. The album, titled \"A Choice of Catastrophes\", was released on September 8, 2017.\n\nThe band have toured relentlessly over the years and have shared the stage with acts such as: PIGFACE, Sleepytime Gorilla Museum, The Birthday Massacre, Daiquiri, Estradasphere, Screaming Mechanical Brain, Foxy Shazam, Clutch, Southcott, Mindless Self Indulgence, Dog Fashion Disco, Framing Hanley, Black Light Burns, Horse the Band, Plain White T's, Kill Hannah, Wesley Willis, and more.\n\nTub Ring are known for their energetic stage shows, purportedly intense enough to result in injury to the performers (for example, incorporating a tazer.)\n\nIn January 2008, the band was invited to perform at the Sundance Film Festival as part of a Green Initiative sponsored event.\n\nOn a tour in 2008, Darren Keen played second guitar, for an impromptu set with Tub Ring in Houston, Texas. Later that year, while on tour with Mindless Self Indulgence, the band recruited Curtis Rx of Creature Feature to also play second guitar for a select portion of dates.\n\nThe 2010 tour for the album Secret Handshakes included Patrik Windsor on guitar, and Sean Motley on drums.\n\n\nIn 2005, Rob Kleiner released his first solo album, \"No Eyes\". On February 13, 2007, he released his second, and latest solo EP, \"Doctor Sleep\". He is also a part of video game rock duo Super 8 Bit Brothers. In addition to his solo work, he's one of the main contributing members of Edison's Arm, and has scored several films, including \"Ending The Eternal\", the feature documentary \"Working Class Rock Star\", and Steve Balderson's films \"Watch Out\" as well as Stuck!. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102913", "title": "Anest Iwata", "text": "Anest Iwata\n\nThe company also produces painting robots developed with Mitsubishi Heavy Industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102917", "title": "Bob Bowman (coach)", "text": "Bob Bowman (coach)\n\nRobert Bowman (April 6, 1965) is an American swimming coach who is the current head coach of the Arizona State Sun Devils swimming and diving teams of Arizona State University. Bowman is best known as the coach of record-breaking American swimmer Michael Phelps. From 2005 to 2008, Bowman served as the head coach for the Michigan Wolverines swimming and diving team of the University of Michigan men's swimming & diving team. From 2008 to 2015, he worked as the CEO and head coach for North Baltimore Aquatic Club.\n\nIn 2015, USA Swimming appointed him the head coach of the men's U.S. 2016 Olympic Team.\n\nBowman was born and raised in Columbia, South Carolina where he attended Columbia High School. He has a younger sister, Donna Bowman, who works at Chapin Middle School as a computer science professor.\n\nIn 1986–87, Bowman was a coach at the Area Tallahassee Aquatic Club and also served as an assistant coach at his alma mater, Florida State University. Bowman swam for the Seminoles from 1983 to 1985, serving as a team captain in his final year. Bowman graduated from Florida State with a bachelor of science degree in developmental psychology and a minor in music composition in 1987. While at Florida State, Bowman was a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.\n\nBowman held assistant coaching positions with the Napa Valley Swim Team (1991–92), the Cincinnati Pepsi Marlins (1990–91), and the Las Vegas Gold swim team (1988–90).\n\nBowman was also the head coach and program director for the Birmingham Swim League from 1992 to 1994. While with the Birmingham Swim League, he was responsible for program design, staff development and daily operation of a 250-member club. Under his supervision, BSL improved to a top five program regionally after finishing out of the top 20 the previous 10 years.\n\nFrom 1994 to 1997, Bowman served as head coach for the Napa Valley Swim Team.\n\nPrior to becoming the Men's head coach at Michigan, Bowman coached for nine years (1996–2004) at the North Baltimore Aquatic Club (NBAC) in Baltimore, Maryland. From 1996 to 1999 he held the position of senior coach; and from 1999 to 2004 he was NBAC's High Performance Coach. During his tenure in Baltimore, Bowman helped to produce three individual national champions, ten national finalists and five U.S. National Team members. In recognition of his accomplishments, Bowman was named the USA's Coach of the Year in 2001 and 2003. He was also named Developmental Coach of the Year in 2002.\n\nIt was also during his work at NBAC that Bowman began coaching 23-time Olympic gold medalist Michael Phelps. Under Bowman's tutelage at the North Baltimore Aquatic club, Phelps won five World Championship gold medals and was named the \"American Swimmer of the Year\" from 2001 to 2004.\n\nWhile at Michigan, Bowman worked closely with Greg Harden, then the sport administrator for swimming. Harden spoke often with both Bowman and Phelps during their time in Ann Arbor leading up to the 2008 Olympics, and he often helped one communicate better with the other. Bowman gives Harden some of the credit for all the success Team USA had in the pool in Beijing. Bowman even says Harden was one of the major reasons he came to Michigan in the first place. Bowman on Harden: “He’s a miracle worker. He made me a better coach, and a better person.”\n\nBowman was named as an assistant coach on the 2004 U.S. Olympic Team, serving as the primary coach for Phelps. At the 2004 Games, Bowman helped coach Phelps to eight medals, including six gold medals and two bronze. Four years later, at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, he coached Phelps to achieve eight Olympic gold medals, which had never been done before in a single Olympics.\n\nIn April 2008, Bowman announced that he would leave Michigan at the end of the 2008 USA Olympic Swim Trials (July 2008) and return to the North Baltimore Aquatic Club after the Beijing Olympics.\n\nBowman was added to the coaching roster to the 2012 London Olympics serving as an assistant coach for the 2012 U.S. Olympic Team.\n\nBowman was hired as the new swim coach at Arizona State University in 2015.\n\nOn September 9, 2015, USA Swimming announced that Bowman would serve as the head coach of the men's team for the 2016 U.S. Olympic Team.\n\nAccording to a July 19 report from the \"Orange County Register\", 2008 Olympic bronze medalist Caroline Burckle received \"a series of sexually graphic text messages and a voice mail on her cell phone\" on the night of May 16, 2011. The text messages came from Bowman and Sean Hutchison, two U.S. national team coaches.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102918", "title": "Witton, Birmingham", "text": "Witton, Birmingham\n\nWitton is an inner city area in Birmingham, England, in the metropolitan county of the West Midlands. It was within the ancient parish of Aston in the Hemlingford hundred of the historic county of Warwickshire. It is probably best known as the home of Aston Villa Football Club at Villa Park.\n\nAccording to William Dugdale, Witton was the property of a man named Staunchel (also spelled Stannachetel) before being seized by William Fitz-Ansculf following the Norman conquest of England. Staunchel became the tenant of Fitz-Ansculf, valued at twenty shillings per annum in the Domesday Book. William Futz-Ansculf nicknamed 'The Duke of Dumps' loved ponies. It was named in the Domesday Book as Witone. It was afterwards vested in the Crown. In 1240, King Henry III granted it to Andrew de Wicton, indicating that the name of the area had changed to Wicton. Andrew grew cautious of William de Pyrie, his neighbour who owned Perry and brought action against him for infringing his property. The dispute was settled by the Sheriffs of Staffordshire and Warwickshire by the King's request.\n\nIn 1290, Witton became the property of William Dixley and then the property of Richard de Pyrie in 1340. In 1426, Thomas East of Hay Hall in Yardley sold it to John Bond of Ward End of whose descendants William Booth purchased it in 1620. An heiress of Booth brought it by marriage to Allestree of Yardley. It was sold to John Wyrley in the 18th century and then by George Birch of Hamstead in the 19th century. In 1730, Witton contained 22 farms and three cottages, apart from Witton Hall at the north-west end of Brookvale Park. In 1559, the Earl of Warwick purchased to of moor called Wichalmore in Witton.\n\nAt around 1460, a route through Witton towards Oscott was mentioned at crossing the River Tame at 'le Foulford', where Witton Bridge was later built. \nWitton Hall was the manor of Witton and it stands at the junction of Brookvale Road and George Road. By 1850, it was being used as a private school, and c. 1907 was acquired by the Aston Board of Guardians as an elderly home. It continued to be such under the Birmingham Corporation in 1959. The buildings have been extended, both before and after the Second World War, but the original house is represented by a tall, square, three-storey tall block dating from around 1730. Internally, a panelled room and the original staircase have survived.\n\nOn 13 June 1902, Birmingham Industrial School opened on Witton Lane. It moved from Penn Street in Deritend, where it was called Penn Street Industrial School. The school had room for 60 boys and opened on 30 January 1869. The new school in Witton had room for 80 boys. It closed on 14 June 1905.\n\nIn 1907, All Souls' Church on Wenlock Road was consecrated. It was built using red brick with stone dressings in the Gothic style to a design by Philip Chatwin. When opened, it had a chancel, nave, east and west aisles, and a low central tower with a pyramidal roof. In 1926, a parish was assigned out of Holy Trinity, Birchfield, and St. Peter and St. Paul, Aston. The living was declared a vicarage, in the gift of the Vicar of Holy Trinity, Birchfield, for the first turn only and then of the bishop.\n\nOn 28 June 1934 Hugo Hirst was made 1st Baron Hirst, of Witton. He was the only person to have this title, which was made extinct on 22 January 1943 upon Hugo's death.\n\nLike the rest of Birmingham, Witton was heavily industrialised. The area was the base of industrial company IMI plc. The company was responsible for construction a conveyor next to Witton Brook and dredging the brook in from 1922 to 1929. The conveyor was dismantled in 1943. On 13 November 1929, a waste lime main pipe installed by IMI became dislodged at Lovett's point and slid six to twelve feet downstream. In 2003, IMI moved from the Witton site to new headquarters close to Birmingham Airport.\n\nThe General Electric Co. Ltd. (GEC) established a very large engineering works in Witton in 1901. The General Electric Company acquired land at Witton in 1899, and in 1901 began building its large factory together with houses for its workers. At one time, the company was employing 18,000 people on the site. By 1927, London Aluminium was employing 400 people at its works in Witton.\n\nOther notable features of Witton are Witton Cemetery, Witton Lakes, the River Tame, the remains of Witton Hall and Witton railway station. The Birmingham Bulldogs rugby team's training ground is also based on Moor Lane in Witton. Witton Centre is the shopping area for Witton, featuring independent traders. Refurbishment of the shops was carried out in the 1980s under the City Council's Inner City Partnership Programme, although by the late 1990s, shops were beginning to show signs of need of further investment. The quality of the environment in Witton is poor with heavy traffic flows, poor parking and servicing arrangements. There are a number of buildings here which reflect the Victorian and Edwardian legacy of Aston, with the Aston Hotel possibly the most well-known local landmark. In some cases, however, the character and architectural quality of these buildings has been disrupted by modern signage and shop front design.\n\nOn 15 June 2007, parts of Witton were flooded as a result of heavy rainfall causing the River Tame to burst its banks. Residents of 300 homes in the Brookvale Road area were sent advice by the city council on dealing with the clean-up and cost of the floods. Parts of the area were evacuated as a precautionary measure. Residents were encouraged to evacuate to Great Barr Leisure Centre, in Great Barr where Birmingham City Council was staffing a rest centre. The majority of people chose to remain at home. Roads affected were Brookvale Road, Tame Road, Deykin Avenue and Brantley Road. The river threatened to flood for a second time when the water level rose to within eight inches (203 mm) of the top of the river bank.\n"}
{"id": "2102920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102920", "title": "Aston Martin DB Mark III", "text": "Aston Martin DB Mark III\n\nThe DB 2/4 Mark III (normally simply called DB Mark III, even at the time of its introduction) is a sports car sold by Aston Martin from 1957 until 1959. It was an evolution of the DB2/4 Mark II model it replaced, using an evolution of that car's W.O. Bentley-designed \"Lagonda\" 2.9 L (2922 cc/178 in³) straight-6 engine, redesigned by Tadek Marek.\n\nChanges included the front grille, that would become the shape of all future Aston Martin models, a new instrument panel, and available Girling disc brakes. The hydraulically operated clutch was new as well, and an optional Laycock-de Normanville overdrive that was attached to the STD 4 speed gearbox after the 1st 100 cars or even an automatic transmission were available. Worm-and-sector steering and a live axle rear end were carryovers. At the rear, the DB2/4 Mark II's tailfins (after the 1st few early cars) were altered to use the rear lights from the Humber Hawk.\n\nThe standard \"DBA\" engine model with twin SU carburettors produced 162 hp (121 kW), though an optional dual-exhaust system raised this to a reputed 178 hp (133 kW). Thus equipped, the car could reach 60 mph (97 km/h) in 9.3 seconds and hit 120 mph (193 km/h). An optional high-output \"DBB\" engine with three twin-choke Weber 35 DCO 3 carburettors, special long duration camshafts, high compression 8.6:1 pistons and the dual-exhaust system boasted 195 hp (145 kW), though this was rarer ( 10 cars thus equipped) than the mid-level \"DBD\" option with triple SU 1.75\" carbs and 180 hp (134 kW) also with the dual exhaust system, fitted to 47 cars.\n\nOne car was fitted with the special \"DBC\" competition engine with a reputed 214 b.h.p., this was fitted with racing camshafts, special connecting rods, very high compression pistons (possibly 9.5:1) & three twin-choke Weber 45 DCO 3 carburettors.\nGirling disc brakes were fitted as standard to the front wheels of all MkIII Astons after the first 100 had been made. Many cars were upgraded later.\nOnly five automatic cars were made from a total of 551.\n\nA 1959 review by \"Road & Track\" magazine praised the car for everything but its $7,450 price. \"A car for connoisseurs,\" they called it. \"The Aston has many virtues and few faults.\" Among the faults was too-heavy steering effort, high door sills, and a stiff ride. \"Road & Track\" failed to comment at all on the car's innovative hatchback body style, complete with fold-down rear seats, although this had been first introduced in the 2/4 MkI in 1953.\n\nAlong with the hatchback, two two-seater coupé variants of the Mark III were also produced. A \"drophead coupé\" convertible, while not common, still considerably outnumbers the \"fixed head coupé\" – 84 of the former were produced, while just five of the latter were built. All five Fixed Head Coupés were built close to the end of Mark III production and feature the mid-spec \"DBD\" engine. Both of these bodystyles feature conventional hinged boot lids rather than the innovative hatch back.\n\nJames Bond drives an Aston Martin DB Mark III in the novel version of \"Goldfinger\", though it is referred to as a \"DB III\" in the book – indeed, the chapter in which he drives to his famous golf-course encounter with the villain is entitled 'Thoughts in a DB III'. It is the only Bond car in the Ian Fleming novels to have gadgets installed. For the film adaptation five years later, the car was updated to the Aston Martin DB5 model and the array of gadgetry was much expanded. It was to become one of the most iconic of classic cars as a result.\n\nLHD: 83\n\nThe DB Mk III was included in the Spot-on range in the early 1960s.\n\nOxford Die-Cast have issued models of both the hatchback and the drophead.\n\nSpark Models have issued models of the drophead, labelled as DB2/4 Cabriolet 1959.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102921", "title": "Elizabeth Freeman", "text": "Elizabeth Freeman\n\nElizabeth Freeman (1744 December 28, 1829), also known as Bet, Mum Bett, or MumBet, was the first enslaved African American to file and win a freedom suit in Massachusetts. The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruling, in Freeman's favor, found slavery to be inconsistent with the 1780 Massachusetts State Constitution. Her suit, \"Brom and Bett v. Ashley\" (1781), was cited in the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court appellate review of Quock Walker's freedom suit. When the court upheld Walker's freedom under the state's constitution, the ruling was considered to have implicitly ended slavery in Massachusetts.\n\nFreeman was illiterate and left no written records of her life. Her early history has been pieced together from the writings of contemporaries to whom she told her story or who heard it indirectly, as well as from historical records.\n\nFreeman was born into slavery around 1744 at the farm of Pieter Hogeboom in Claverack, New York, where she was given the name Bet. When Hogeboom's daughter Hannah married John Ashley of Sheffield, Massachusetts, Hogeboom gave Bet, around seven years old, to Hannah and her husband. Freeman remained with them until 1781, during which time she had a child, Little Bet. She is said to have married, though no marriage record has been located. Her husband (name unknown) is said to have never returned from service in the American Revolutionary War.\n\nThroughout her life, Bet exhibited a strong spirit and sense of self. She came into conflict with Hannah Ashley, who was raised in the strict Dutch culture of the New York colony. In 1780, Bet prevented Hannah from striking a servant girl with a heated shovel; Elizabeth shielded the girl and received a deep wound in her arm. As the wound healed, Bet left it uncovered as evidence of her harsh treatment. Catharine Maria Sedgwick quotes Elizabeth saying, \"Madam never again laid her hand on Lizzy [sic]. 'I had a bad arm all winter, but Madam had the worst of it. I never covered the wound, and when people said to me, before Madam, \"Betty, what ails your arm?\" I only answered - 'ask missis!'\nWhich was the slave and which was the real misses?\"\n\nJohn Ashley was a Yale-educated lawyer, wealthy landowner, businessman and leader in the community. His house was the site of many political discussions and the probable location of the signing of the Sheffield Resolves, which predated the Declaration of Independence.\n\nIn 1780, Freeman heard the newly ratified Massachusetts Constitution read at a public gathering in Sheffield, including the following:\n\nInspired by these words, Bett sought the counsel of Theodore Sedgwick, a young abolition-minded lawyer, to help her sue for freedom in court. According to Catherine Sedgwick's account, she told him, \"I heard that paper read yesterday, that says, all men are created equal, and that every man has a right to freedom. I'm not a dumb critter; won't the law give me my freedom?\" After much deliberation Sedgwick accepted her case, as well as that of Brom, another of Ashley's slaves. He enlisted the aid of Tapping Reeve, the founder of Litchfield Law School, one of America's earliest law schools, located in Litchfield, Connecticut. They were two of the top lawyers in Massachusetts, and Sedgwick later served as US Senator. Arthur Zilversmit suggests the attorneys may have selected these plaintiffs to test the status of slavery under the new state constitution.\n\nThe case of \"Brom and Bett v. Ashley\" was heard in August 1781 before the County Court of Common Pleas in Great Barrington. Sedgwick and Reeve asserted that the constitutional provision that \"all men are born free and equal\" effectively abolished slavery in the state. When the jury ruled in Bett's favor, she became the first African-American woman to be set free under the Massachusetts state constitution.\n\nThe jury found that \"...Brom & Bett are not, nor were they at the time of the purchase of the original writ the legal Negro of the said John Ashley...\" The court assessed damages of thirty shillings and awarded both plaintiffs compensation for their labor. Ashley initially appealed the decision, but a month later dropped his appeal, apparently having decided the court's ruling on constitutionality of slavery was \"final and binding.\"\n\nAfter the ruling, Bett took the name Elizabeth Freeman. Although Ashley asked her to return to his house and work for wages, she chose to work in attorney Sedgwick's household. She worked for his family until 1808 as senior servant and governess to the Sedgwick children, who called her \"Mumbet.\" The Sedgwick children included Catharine Sedgwick, who became a well-known author and wrote an account of her governess's life. Also working at the Sedgwick household during much of this time was Agrippa Hull, a free black man who had served with rebel forces for years during the Revolutionary War.\n\nFrom the time Freeman gained her freedom, she became widely recognized and in demand for her skills as a healer, midwife and nurse. After the Sedgwick children were grown, Freeman moved into her own house on Cherry Hill in Stockbridge near her daughter, grandchildren and great grandchildren.\n\nFreeman's real age was never known, but an estimate on her tombstone puts her age at about 85. She died in December 1829 and was buried in the Sedgwick family plot in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. Freeman remains the only non-Sedgwick buried in the Sedgwick plot. They provided a tombstone, inscribed as follows:\n\nThe decision in the case of Elizabeth Freeman was cited as precedent when the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court heard the appeal of \"Quock Walker v. Jennison\" later that year and upheld Walker's freedom. These cases set the legal precedents that ended slavery in Massachusetts. Vermont had already abolished it explicitly in its constitution.\n\nCivil Rights leader and historian W. E. B. Du Bois claimed Freeman as his relative and wrote that she married his maternal great-grandfather, \"Jack\" Burghardt. But, Freeman was 20 years senior to Burghardt, and no record of such a marriage has been found. It may have been Freeman's daughter, Betsy Humphrey, who married Burghardt after her first husband, Jonah Humphrey, left the area \"around 1811\", and after Burghardt's first wife died (c. 1810). If so, Freeman would have been Du Bois's step-great-great-grandmother. Anecdotal evidence supports Humphrey's marrying Burghardt; a close relationship of some form is likely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102925", "title": "Multimoog", "text": "Multimoog\n\nThe Multimoog is a monophonic analog synthesizer manufactured by Moog Music from 1978–81. Derived from the earlier Micromoog (internally, it consists of a stock Micromoog circuit board with the extra circuitry on a second board), the Multimoog was intended to be a less expensive alternative to the Minimoog. It nevertheless had some advanced features which the Minimoog did not—most notably, it was one of the earliest synthesizers to feature aftertouch capability.\n\nKey features include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102930", "title": "Higham, South Yorkshire", "text": "Higham, South Yorkshire\n\nHigham is a village in the metropolitan borough of Barnsley in South Yorkshire, England. The village falls within the Dodworth ward of the Barnsley MBC.\n\nThe village of Higham is also known locally as 'Hickam', as the saying goes: 'Higham where they fry'em, Hickam where they stick'em.' Most of the population lived on 3 main rows of houses: Old Row, New Row and Concrete Row, although only the New Row now survives. Most of those houses were built to house the Coal Miners who used to work at the nearby collieries. There used to be 3 pubs in the village: The Hermit Inn, The Miners Inn and The Engineers Arms. The Miners Inn has been demolished, The Hermit Inn is now a curry shop leaving only The Engineers Arms. During the last few decades the village has changed greatly with a lot of new, modern houses that greatly contrast with the older houses of the New Row. People have moved into the village seeking peace and quiet but with easy access to the M1 Motorway.\n\nHigham is surrounded by the villages of Gawber, Barugh Green, Dodworth, Redbrook and Pogmoor. Other places of note nearby are the villages of Silkstone, Cawthorne and Darton. Nearby places include Captain and Hugset Woods, and Higham Reservoir. Higham used to have a small drift mine known as the Higham Pumping Station. The drift was used for coal to come from Redbrook colliery and then up the belt track to Dodworth colliery to the screens and washers. There was an even older shaft that could still be seen in the 1970s.\n\nThe village has a Methodist Chapel that also now houses the local Post Office. The chapel is open Sundays for Morning worship & Evensong.\n\nHigham currently has a cricket club that plays in the South Yorkshire Senior Cricket League and at one time had a football team that used to play in the Sunday league.\nHere coal miners played the game of Nipsy (not Knur and Spell) on the field at the back of the Miners Inn (Pigoyle).\n\nHigham has had a number of sporting personalities: Keith Burkinshaw & Ron Darlow to name two. Keith was famous in the sport of Football & Ron Darlow was Nipsy world champion before his death. For a description of the game of Nipsy and its association with Coal Miners please see the web site of Alan Lever.\n\nPopular walking routes from the village are: Hermit Lane, from Higham to Gawber passing the church of \"St Thomas\". An alternate route takes you over the field to Pogmoor. Pogwell lane, starting at the Engineers Inn and leading down into the Hugset wood or taking the route up towards Silkstone golf links. Higham Lane, leading from Higham Common towards Dodworth or, after crossing the motorway bridge, bearing right, down into the Captain Wood and follow the old belt track. Royd Lane, passing down the side of the cricket field, this lane will take you down towards Cawthorne Basin and over to the Furnace pit.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102931", "title": "Nice Dreams", "text": "Nice Dreams\n\nNice Dreams is a 1981 American action adventure comedy film directed by Tommy Chong and starring Cheech & Chong, in their third feature film. Released in 1981 by Columbia Pictures, the film focuses on the duo having gotten rich selling cannabis out of an ice cream truck, and evading the Drug Enforcement Agency, led by Sgt. Stedenko (Stacy Keach), who are trying to bust an alleged drug kingpin named \"Mr. Big\", and discover a strain of marijuana that turns people into lizards, including Stedenko, who has been smoking cannabis to get inside the head of a drug user.\n\nThe film costars Paul Reubens and Evelyn Guerrero, and features small appearances by comedians Sandra Bernhard and Michael Winslow, and a cameo by Timothy Leary. \"Nice Dreams\" grossed $35 million, but it received mixed reviews.\n\nCheech and Chong (Cheech Marin and Tommy Chong) have a new business driving an ice cream truck selling \"Happy Herb's Nice Dreams.\" However, it is not ice cream they sell, but it is marijuana, stolen from their friend Weird Jimmy (James William Newport) whose plantation is under their beach house camouflaged as a pool. The two eventually make a fortune. They blissfully plan on becoming \"Sun Kings in Paradise\" which involves buying an island, guitars, and enjoying lots of women.\n\nThe police are on Cheech and Chong's tails from the start, as they trick the stoners into selling them some of their \"ice cream.\" Sgt. Stedanko (Stacy Keach, reprising his role from \"Up in Smoke\"), now himself a stoner, tests the marijuana and slowly turns into a lizard (a side effect). Just as the police storm their house, Cheech and Chong pack up the marijuana in their truck and drive off, leaving Weird Jimmy to be arrested. While Sgt. Stedanko continues smoking their product, becoming stranger and more lizard-like, his two deputies, Det. Drooler (Peter Jason) and his inept partner Noodles (Tim Rossovich), tail the stoners.\n\nCheech and Chong dine at a Chinese restaurant to celebrate their wealth. There, they are accosted by an annoying record agent who bothers Chong (mistaking him for Jerry Garcia), followed by Cheech's ex-girlfriend Donna (Evelyn Guerrero, reprising her role from \"Cheech & Chong's Next Movie\") and a cocaine-snorting mental patient, Howie \"Hamburger Dude\" (Paul Reubens). The four of them snort cocaine under the table, prompting Chong to sign away all their money to Howie for a useless check, which they are unable to cash due to none of them having an ID.\n\nCheech takes a drunk Donna out to her truck to have sex, but she passes out. A pair of incompetent California highway patrolmen show up, almost busting Cheech when Chong abruptly shows up in their ice cream truck. However, not wanting to deal with the impending long procedure of the arrest, the cops let Cheech and Chong go.\n\nThe two head back to Donna's apartment. While attempting a threesome, Chong leaves to get ice. At this point, Donna's crazed racist biker husband Animal shows up, having broken out of prison. Cheech tries to escape out the window and ends up climbing the hotel naked. Chong then returns to the room and hides under the bed. Eventually, Animal has sex with Donna and they fall asleep. Cheech gets back into the hotel, returns to the room, and retrieves some clothes to wear.\n\nCheech then realizes Chong has signed away all their money to Howie. After getting a lift from Drooler and Noodles (disguised as women), the stoners find and break into the address on the check: a mental institution. They spend the night and in the morning they find Howie among the inmates. Cheech tries to grab Howie to get their money, but the doctors believe Cheech to be another patient and lock him in a straitjacket in a padded room. They also believe Chong is a doctor and put him in charge of medication. Chong finds a doctor (Timothy Leary) to help, and Cheech and Chong are offered \"the key to the universe\" (LSD).\n\nChong simply passes out but Cheech endures a bizarre trip that finally ends the next morning when the head nurse awakens them. She has realized what has happened and apologizes to them, returns their money and sets them free. At this point, Stedanko's cops show up and arrest the head nurse and Howie instead. By now, Stedanko has become even more lizard like, complete with a tail.\n\nWith Weird Jimmy's marijuana plantation busted, Cheech and Chong resort to becoming male strippers at \"Club Paradise\" where they are billed as \"The Sun Kings\", Maui and Wowie.\n\n\nJanet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"If marijuana has a way of heightening the hilarious aspects of things that might not otherwise be funny, then this is very much a marijuana movie. But 'Nice Dreams' also has a more general appeal than that. These are high spirits that don't have to do with being high.\" \"Variety\" noted: \"Although plot is impossible and filmmaking is still on the rudimentary side, effort is chock full of yocks, as the zippy pace, short running time and succession of outrageous bit players keep energy and audience attention from flagging.\" Gary Arnold of \"The Washington Post\" called the film \"an outrageously amusing ramble.\" Sheila Benson of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote that the film \"sure doesn't work if you're straight.\" Gene Siskel of the \"Chicago Tribune\" gave the film one-and-a-half stars out of four and described the level of humor as \"infantile.\"\n\nThe film grossed $8,153,738 from 1,390 theaters in its opening weekend, the highest weekend of 1981 at the time of its opening. After 10 days, it had a gross of $17,392,850 and \"Film Comment\" noted that it had \"garnered almost all of its business in the first two weeks, demonstrating that Cheech & Chong have a large and loyal following - they're the Abbott and Costello of the Head Set.\" The film was the seventh highest-grossing film of the summer with $35 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102941", "title": "Doudeville", "text": "Doudeville\n\nDoudeville is a commune in the Seine-Maritime department in the Normandy region in northern France.\n\nCalled the flax capital, the town is situated at the centre of the Pays de Caux, the chalk plateau in High Normandy and one widely known for its fields of blue-flowered flax.\n\nSince 1793, the population has varied between 3,792 and 1,993. In the early 21st century, it is 87% of that at the dawn of the nineteenth, when there was more demand for labour on the land. \nAt Doudeville, the General Assemblies of linen producers were held regularly - which is where the idea of Doudeville's claim to be linen capital arose. In the nineteenth century, there was a trade in linen cloth and canvas; enough to employ 8,000 people in ten businesses in the region.\n\nGuy de Maupassant set a good number of his stories in this region. \"The yard of the farm, enclosed by trees, seemed to sleep ... The shade of the apple trees gathered itself round their feet and the thatched roofs of the buildings at the summit of which grew irises ...\" from The Story of a Farm Girl (\"Histoire d'une fille de ferme)\" by Guy de Maupassant in his short story collection La Maison Tellier. For more, see Pays de Caux.\n\nIn Gustave Flaubert's \"Madame Bovary\" Charles' father dies in Doudeville following a dinner with old military friends.\n\nThere are castles, manor houses with their dovecotes, majestic churches, little chapels and roadside calvaries carved from sandstone.\n\nThe \"Hôtel de Ville\" is a very large building in the Place du Général de Gaulle which was formerly la Place de l’Hôtel de Ville. It was built in about 1780 by François Louis Leseigneur; lord of Reuville and Galleville. Until the early nineteenth century, this was the trading centre for the linen cloth and siamoise, a cotton cloth which was common in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.\nIn 1852, the building was bought by the town and refurbished. At that time, the ground floor was a grain market, a prison and the caretaker’s lodging. The first floor housed the places in which the duties of the mayor and of the justices of the peace were carried out. At one time, as in many market halls, the ground floor was not fully enclosed. There were wide arched openings. The square in front of it held several small market buildings where traders such as pork butchers, butchers and shoemakers worked. It has undergone a major refurbishment which was due for completion in September 2007.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102945", "title": "The Mind of Evil", "text": "The Mind of Evil\n\nThe Mind of Evil is the second serial of the eighth season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in six weekly parts on BBC1 from 30 January to 6 March 1971.\n\nIn the serial, the alien time traveller the Master (Roger Delgado) is plotting to start World War III by destroying a peace conference between the United States and China in London by using a nerve gas missile he hijacked from the organisation UNIT.\n\nAll six episodes of the serial exist as black and white telerecordings after the original colour video tapes were wiped. For the serial's DVD release in 2013, a mixture of hand-colourised key-frames in conjunction with manual and automated colour interpolation for episode one, and the decoding of chroma dot signals recorded in the monochrome film for episodes 2–6, were employed to recolourise it.\n\nThe Third Doctor and Jo visit Stangmoor Prison to examine a new method of treating criminals, whereby negative impulses are removed from the mind using the Keller Machine. Professor Kettering, who is managing the use of the process at the behest of the absent Emile Keller, reconditions a number of inmates including Barnham, a hardened criminal who reverts to an innocent and childlike state due to the process. The Doctor's suspicions about the Keller Machine are heightened following a string of deaths, including that of Kettering himself, which occur when the machine is operated. Each death seems to involve personal phobias – and the Doctor is threatened by an inferno when he gets too close to the machine.\n\nMeanwhile, Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart and the troops of UNIT are handling the security arrangements for the first World Peace Conference. Captain Chin Lee of the Chinese delegation, whose delegate leader is dead, is behaving strangely and attempting to heighten tension in relations with the United States. It emerges that her actions are under the influence of the Master. She uses the transmitted power of the Keller Machine against the American delegate, Senator Alcott, who barely survives the attack. Captain Chin Lee is deconditioned by the Doctor, and tells him that Emile Keller is in truth the Master, whom the Doctor has previously trapped on Earth by stealing the dematerialisation circuit of his TARDIS.\n\nBack at Stangmoor a riot has broken out and resulted in a dangerous criminal, Harry Mailer, seizing control of the prison. Jo is briefly taken hostage, but she enables the guards to retake the prison. The Master, who has heard of the riot by eavesdropping on UNIT's radio communications, arrives and meets Mailer, to whom he supplies enough gas grenades for Mailer and his prisoners to retake control of the prison. The Doctor returns to the prison only to be captured by the Master, who sets the Keller Machine loose on the mind of his old foe, weakening the Doctor considerably. But the Master is losing control of the Keller Machine, which contains an alien Mind Parasite that is dangerous even to a Time Lord, and forces the Doctor to help him contain its power. This done, the Doctor is returned to his cell.\n\nThe Master has come to Stangmoor to recruit the prisoners as a private army, and uses them to hijack a UNIT convoy transporting a deadly \"Thunderbolt\" nerve gas missile, which he intends to fire at the Peace Conference. Captain Mike Yates, who was in charge of the convoy, is taken prisoner by the criminals. Left in the dark, the Brigadier decides the \"Thunderbolt\" missile must be at Stangmoor and comes to the rescue in a \"Trojan Horse\" style assault. UNIT troops take control of the prison, killing Mailer and the other leading rioters. But the Keller Machine is growing stronger, and now breaks free of the temporary restraints placed on it by the Doctor, who discovers by chance that Barnham, having previously been subjected to the Keller process and thus having no evil left in his mind, has become immune to the Mind Parasite.\n\nYates manages to contact UNIT, and informs them that the \"Thunderbolt\" is hidden on an abandoned airfield near the prison. The Doctor contacts the Master, offering to return his dematerialisation circuit in exchange for the missile. The Master agrees on condition he will come alone. But the Doctor uses Barnham to transport the Keller Machine to the airfield and turn the Mind Parasite loose on the Master. With the Master helpless, the Doctor is able to trigger the missile's self-destruct circuit and the \"Thunderbolt\" and the Keller Machine are destroyed. The Master uses the chaos to escape with his dematerialisation circuit, killing Barnham in the process. He contacts the Doctor by telephone to taunt him that he is now free while the Doctor remains trapped in his exile on Earth.\n\nThe Mind Parasite attacks the Doctor on three separate occasions. The first visions are tongues of flame, enveloping the Doctor's terror-stricken face. He tells Jo as he recovers, \"Not long ago I saw an entire world consumed by fire...\" This is a reference to the recent serial \"Inferno\" (also written by Don Houghton).\n\nWorking titles for this story included \"The Pandora Machine\", \"Man Hours\" and \"The Pandora Box\".\n\nThe serial features a guest appearance by Michael Sheard, who had previously appeared with William Hartnell in \"The Ark\", and would later appear with Tom Baker in \"Pyramids of Mars\" (as Lawrence Scarman) and in \"The Invisible Enemy\" (as Lowe), and with Peter Davison in \"Castrovalva\" (as Mergrave), and with Sylvester McCoy in \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" (as the Headmaster at the Coal Hill School). See also Celebrity appearances in Doctor Who.\n\nThe production filmed in Kent where some exteriors, primarily for Stangmoor Prison, were filmed in and around Dover Castle. The junction of Archer's Court Road with Pineham Road in Whitfield was the location where the Master's troops ambush the missile convoy. The hangar at the former RAF Swingate was used as the Master's hiding place for his deadly missile; and Stone Hill Park, formerly Manston Airport, was the base for the helicopter company providing the choppers and aerial footage in the series. This serial went so excessively over budget – primarily due to the use of the helicopter in episode 6 – that its director, Timothy Combe, was banned by Barry Letts from being considered for any subsequent \"Who\" work.\n\nDavid J. Howe and Stephen James Walker, in their 1998 book \"Doctor Who: The Television Companion\", noted that the Master's plan was \"so convoluted that it seriously lacks credibility\". However, they wrote that \"the action is brought to the screen with such style and panache that the viewer hardly notices them\", with the direction and the alien menace being the highlights. In 2009, Mark Braxton of \"Radio Times\" praised the direction and Delgado's Master, though he noted there was a high body count. \"SFX\" reviewer Ian Berriman gave the serial three out of five stars, finding it enjoyable if one did not concentrate on the Master's plan, noting that the \"two aspects of the plan never dovetail satisfactorily\". DVD Talk's John Sinnott rated \"The Mind of Evil\" three and a half out of five stars, writing that it kept a good pace and had \"all of the elements that made Pertwee's run so enjoyable\". Actress Katy Manning has stated that this is her favourite story from her three years on the show.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in March 1985.\n\nThe original soundtrack for this serial was released on CD in the UK in February 2009. The linking narration was provided by Richard Franklin.\n\nFor many years, this story was unique amongst the BBC's holdings of Pertwee-era serials in that the BBC held no complete colour copies of any of its episodes. However, about four and a half minutes of colour footage from episode six existed on an off-air domestic NTSC Betamax recording. The serial was released on VHS in May 1998 using the BBC's black-and-white 16mm film recordings. The colour scenes, restored by combining the colour signal from the off-air recording and the black and white signal from the film recording, were included as a bonus extra after the story. Several colour clips from the story were included on the 2011 DVD release \"Day of the Daleks\" as part of the UNIT family history.\n\nThe serial was released on DVD in June 2013. Episodes two to six were restored to colour via the chroma dot colour recovery technique used for other black-and-white Pertwee-era stories. The telerecording of episode one does not contain chroma dot information (this was filtered out at the time it was made) and was recoloured using colour referenced from the other restored episodes. Keyframes, including the first frame of a shot and every fifth frame thereafter (approximately 7,000 in total) were hand coloured by Stuart Humphryes. Motion-estimation software was then used to interpolate the extrapolated colour from the key frames into the intervening frames.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102965", "title": "Jimmy Meng", "text": "Jimmy Meng\n\nJimmy Meng (, born 1944) is a former Member of the New York State Assembly. A Democrat, Meng represented the 22nd Assembly District in Flushing, Queens from 2005 to 2006. He is the first Asian American to have served in the New York State Legislature. Meng pleaded guilty to wire fraud in 2013.\n\nMeng's ancestral home was in Shandong Province, China. His father moved to Taiwan due to the Communist Party's takeover of Mainland China. After moving to the United States from Taiwan in 1975, Meng began a successful timber business. Following years of business activity, he became the president of the Flushing Chinese Business Association (FCBA).\n\nMeng is the father of U.S. Representative Grace Meng.\n\nMeng ran for New York State Assembly in 2002 in the 22nd Assembly District in Flushing, but was defeated by Barry Grodenchik. In 2004, Meng ran for Assembly again. This time, he ousted Grodenchik in the Democratic primary. Running on the Democratic, Independence, and Conservative lines, Meng defeated Republican candidate Meilin Tan, Grodenchik (running on the Working Families Party line), and Green candidate Evergreen Chou in the general election. The \"New York Post\" reported that Meng used \"ghost voters\" to win the election. In an interview with Sing Tao Daily (a Chinese newspaper), Meng denied the accusations. He is the first Asian American to have served in the New York State Legislature.\n\nMeng served in the Assembly in 2005 and 2006. He stated that he would not seek re-election in 2006 due to health concerns. He expressed a desire for more Asian Americans and other minorities to run for office. Meng was succeeded by another Asian American, Ellen Young. In turn, Young lost the September 9, 2008 Democratic primary to Jimmy Meng's daughter, Grace Meng. Grace Meng won the 2008 general election in Assembly District 22 and went on to become a member of Congress.\n\nMeng was arrested on federal charges on July 25, 2012. On November 14, 2012, he pleaded guilty to wire fraud for soliciting an $80,000 cash bribe (concealed in a fruit basket) and falsely stating that he would use the funds to bribe Manhattan prosecutors to obtain a reduced sentence for a defendant. The government found no evidence that Meng contacted anyone in the District Attorney's Office on behalf of the defendant; rather, investigators concluded that Meng intended to keep the $80,000 for himself. On March 12, 2013, Meng was sentenced to a month in jail, a fine of $30,000, three months of house arrest, and 750 hours of community service for his role in the bribery scheme.\n"}
{"id": "2102981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102981", "title": "Witton Cemetery", "text": "Witton Cemetery\n\nWitton Cemetery (), which opened in Witton in 1863 as Birmingham City Cemetery, is the largest cemetery in Birmingham, England. Covering an area of , it once had three chapels; however, two of these were demolished in 1980. The cemetery would perform up to 20 burials a day; however, it was declared \"full to capacity\" in December 2013, allowing burials only in existing family plots, or of babies or cremated remains. Extra capacity was therefore provided at the nearby New Hall Cemetery. The cemetery office was opened in 1999.\n\nStarted in May 1860 and consecrated by the Bishop of Worcester on 23 May 1863, it was the only cemetery owned by the Corporation of Birmingham until 1911, when an expansion of the city boundary brought in others. Key Hill and Warstone Lane Cemetery were private concerns. It opened in 1863 with an area of . In 1869, were bought by the Jewish community for their interments, forming Birmingham Hebrew Congregation Cemetery, at the north of the site, across College Road. In 1882 an obelisk was constructed to replace the monuments that were previously at The Old Meeting House chapel, which itself was demolished to make way for New Street railway station.\n\nThe cemetery contains 459 Commonwealth service war graves from World War I, over 200 of whom form three denominational war graves plots marked by Screen Walls bearing names of those buried within the plots and elsewhere in the cemetery whose graves could not be marked by headstones.\n\nThere are 224 Commonwealth war graves from World War II, the highest concentration (31 burials) in a small war graves plot in Sections 55 and 56, and the rest are scattered individually in the rest of the cemetery. The names of 12 service personnel of that war whose graves could not be marked by CWGC headstones were added to the Screen Wall at the World War I plots.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102985", "title": "Social science fiction", "text": "Social science fiction\n\nSocial science fiction is a subgenre of science fiction, usually (but not necessarily) soft science fiction, concerned less with technology/space opera and more with speculation about society. In other words, it \"absorbs and discusses anthropology\" and speculates about human behavior and interactions.\n\nExploration of fictional societies is a significant aspect of science fiction, allowing it to perform predictive (\"The Time Machine\" (1895); \"The Final Circle of Paradise\", 1965) and precautionary (\"Brave New World\", 1932; \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", 1949; \"Childhood's End\", \"Fahrenheit 451\", 1953) functions, to criticize the contemporary world (\"Gulliver's Travels\", 1726; the works of Alexander Gromov, 1995 - Present) and to present solutions (\"Walden Two\", \"Freedom™\"), to portray alternative societies (\"World of the Noon\") and to examine the implications of ethical principles, as for example in the works of Sergei Lukyanenko.\n\nSocial fiction is a broad term to describe any work of speculative fiction that features social commentary (as opposed to, say, hypothetical technology) in the foreground. Social science fiction is a subgenre thereof, where social commentary (cultural or political) takes place in a sci-fi universe. Utopian and dystopian fiction is a classic, polarized genre of social science fiction, although most works of science fiction can be interpreted as having social commentary of some kind or other as an important feature. It is not uncommon, therefore, for a sci-fi work to be labeled as social sci-fi as well as numerous other categories.\n\nThomas More's book \"Utopia\" (1516) represents an early example of the genre. Another early classic writer, Jonathan Swift, penned critical views on current society—his most famous work, \"Gulliver's Travels\" (1726), is an example of a novel that is partially social science fiction (with such classic sci-fi elements as pioneering in strange new worlds and experimenting with variations of the human anatomy) and partially high fantasy (e.g., fantastical species that satirize various sectors of society).\n\nOne of the writers who used science fiction to explore the sociology of near-future topics was H. G. Wells, with his classic \"The Time Machine\" (1895) revealing the human race diverging into separate branches of Elois and Morlocks as a consequence of class inequality: a happy pastoral society of Elois preyed upon by the Morlocks but yet needing them to keep their world functioning—a thinly veiled criticism of capitalist society, where the exploiter class, or the bourgeoisie, is symbolized by the useless, frivolous Elois, and the exploited working class, or the proletariat, is represented by the subterranean-dwelling, malnourished Morlocks. Wells' \"The Sleeper Awakes\" (1899, 1910) predicted the spirit of the 20th century: technically advanced, undemocratic and bloody. Next to prognoses of the future of society if current social problems persisted, as well as depictions of alien societies that are exaggerated versions of ours (exemplified by \"The War of the Worlds\" of 1897), Wells also heavily criticized the then-popular concept of vivisection, experimental \"psychiatry\" and research that was done for the purpose of restructuring the human mind and memory (clearly emphasized in \"The Island of Doctor Moreau\", 1896).\n\nOther early examples of influential novels include \"Vril, the Power of the Coming Race\" (1871) by Edward Bulwer-Lytton, \"Erewhon\" (1872) by Samuel Butler, \"Looking Backward: 2000-1887\" (1888) by Edward Bellamy and \"News from Nowhere\" (1890) by William Morris\n\nIn the U.S. the new trend of science fiction away from gadgets and space opera and toward speculation about the human condition was championed in pulp magazines of the 1940s by authors such as Robert A. Heinlein and by Isaac Asimov, who coined the term \"social science fiction\" to describe his own work. The term is not often used today except in the context of referring specifically to the changes that took place in the 1940s, but the subgenre it defines is still a mainstay of science fiction.\n\nUtopian fiction eventually gave birth to a negative and often more cynical genre, known as dystopian: Aldous Huxley's \"negative utopia\" \"Brave New World\" (1932) and, \"Animal Farm\" (1945) and \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" (1949) by George Orwell. \"The thought-destroying force\" of McCarthyism influenced Ray Bradbury's \"Fahrenheit 451\" (1953). Examples of young adult dystopian fiction include \"The Hunger Games\" (2008) by Suzanne Collins, \"The House of the Scorpion\" (2002) by Nancy Farmer, \"Divergent\" (2011) by Veronica Roth, \"The Maze Runner\" (2009) by James Dashner, and \"Delirium\" (2011) by Lauren Oliver.\n\n\"The Chrysalids\" (1955) by John Wyndham explored the society of several telepathic children in a world hostile to such differences. Robert Sheckley studied polar civilizations of criminal and stability in his 1960 novel \"The Status Civilization\".\n\nThe modern era of social science fiction began with the 1960s, when authors such as Harlan Ellison, Brian Aldiss, William Gibson and Frank Herbert wrote novels and stories that reflected real-world political developments and ecological issues, but also experimented in creating hypothetical societies of the future or of parallel populated planets. Ellison's main theme was the protest against increasing militarism. Kurt Vonnegut wrote \"Slaughterhouse-Five\" (1969), which used the science-fiction storytelling device of time-travel to explore anti-war, moral, and sociological themes. Frederik Pohl's series \"Gateway\" (1977–2004) combined social science fiction with hard science-fiction. Modern exponents of social science fiction in the Campbellian/Heinlein tradition include L. Neil Smith who wrote both \"The Probability Broach\" (1981) and \"Pallas\", which dealt with alternative \"sideways in time\" futures and what a libertarian society would look like. He is considered the heir to Robert A. Heinlein's individualism and libertarianism in science fiction.\n\nKim Stanley Robinson explored different models of the future in his \"Three Californias Trilogy\" (1984, 1988, 1990).\n\n\"The Saga of Recluce\" (1991–present), by L. E. Modesitt, Jr. represents a fusion of science fiction and fantasy that can be described as social science fiction. The 13 books of the series describe the changing relationships between two technologically advanced cultures and the cultures of a primitive world to which each is involuntarily transported. Themes of gender stereotyping, sexism, ethics, economics, environmentalism and politics are explored in the course of the series, which examines the world through the eyes of all its protagonists.\n\nDoris Lessing won the 2007 Nobel Prize for literature. Although mostly known for her mainstream works, she wrote numerous notable works of social science fiction, including \"Memoirs of a Survivor\" (1974), \"Briefing for a Descent into Hell\" (1971), the \"Canopus in Argos\" series (1974–1983), and \"The Cleft\" (2007).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102987", "title": "Paddle (spanking)", "text": "Paddle (spanking)\n\nA spanking paddle is an implement used to strike a person on the buttocks. The act of spanking a person with a paddle is known as \"paddling\". A paddling may be for punishment (normally of a student at school in the United States), or as an initiation or hazing ritual.\n\nA paddle has two parts: a handle and a blade. Most paddles are designed to be held with one hand, but a giant paddle may be designed to be held with two hands. The blade is typically 3 to wide, 1/4-inch thick, and 1 to in length.\n\nIn the great majority of cases, the paddle is aimed at the recipient's buttocks. Less commonly, the back of the thighs might also be targeted.\n\nPaddles for use in schools are made of wood, or occasionally plastic. Paddles used for school punishments may be roughly hewn from commonly available wood. Occasionally, paddles may have holes drilled into them, so there is less air drag when the paddle approaches the buttocks, and produces more pain. The paddles used for fraternity and sorority initiation ceremonies are often professionally made and engraved with organizational symbols and slogans.\n\nThe paddle may have been originally invented for the punishment of slaves as a way of causing intense pain without doing any permanent damage to the recipient. It is not only in former slave states that the paddle has been used in schools. It is not known why or exactly when it became the normal implement for corporal punishment in US schools. There are, however , instances of paddling using similar implements with individuals who were not slaves.\n\nPaddling was mainly used in many parts of the United States (and still is, in a few areas) as a means to discipline misbehaving school students. Paddling has also been used in some homes to punish children and teenagers. The results of a national household survey indicate that paddling is a discipline technique that 10% of parents are \"very likely to use\". The percentage of parents who say that they are very likely to paddle increases to 12% when involving teenagers.\n\nThe paddle is the almost invariable implement in US schools that still allow corporal punishment for student misconduct. Some paddles have traditionally had holes bored in them for aerodynamic effect, but many schools nowadays prohibit the use of such paddles.\n\nPaddling typically causes a slight reddening of the skin but in some cases can cause bruises that are \"visible for approximately two weeks\". Whether or not particular bruises constitute evidence of \"serious injury\" or \"abuse\" or \"child maltreatment\" depends on individual circumstances and can ultimately be settled only by a court of law.\n\nThere have been cases in the past when paddling was administered incorrectly or excessively. Partly in order to avoid this danger, in the majority of U.S. schools, paddling is more strictly regulated than in the past, many schools publishing detailed rules in their student handbooks. It is usually a requirement that a professional witness be present. Currently, there is often a maximum of three swats (or \"licks\" or \"pops\"). In the past, paddlings of up to 30 licks were not unknown, especially in rural schools. Practice has gradually moved from paddlings in the classroom or hallway to paddlings administered out of the sight of other students, typically in the principal's office. \"Hallway\" paddlings could typically be seen by other students, administrators or even outsiders visiting the school.\n\nIn 1981, a 17-year-old student claimed bleeding wounds as a result of a school paddling. It was alleged that the assistant principal who had administered the punishment had held and swung the paddle with two hands. In order to prevent such claims, a school district currently may choose to require the handle of a spanking paddle to be \"just large enough for a normal one-hand grip\". Or a rule might provide that the handle shall not be more than long (just large enough to be held with one hand).\n\nIn 1982, a nine-year-old student was hit with a wooden paddle that was cracked. This caused a bleeding wound that became a permanent scar. To avoid this, nowadays some school districts have adopted rules which prohibit using paddles that have cracks in them. For example, the policies of Bloomfield School District provide that, \"Corporal punishment will be administered by spanking the buttocks of a student with a flat-surfaced paddle which is smoothly sanded and has no cracks or holes and that will cause no more than temporary pain and not inflict permanent damage to the body.\"\n\nA paddling is typically administered with two or more school employees present. The student may be ordered to bend over a chair or desk and, in that position, receive the prescribed number of strokes of the paddle. Paddling usually occurs in an office but may sometimes occur in a hallway. The punishment is delivered across the seat of the student's trousers or skirt.\n\nIn order to avoid allegations of sexual abuse, many school districts require that a female teacher be present during the paddling of a female student. A school might also \"recommend\" \"that female staff members administer corporal punishment to female students (middle and high school)\". Or a school board might \"prescribe\" that a \"female principal(s) or designee shall spank or paddle female students\" and that a \"male principal(s) or designee shall spank or paddle male students.\"\n\nAs of April 2011, 19 states allow corporal punishment in public schools. See School corporal punishment in the United States for further information.\n\n\nThe paddle is also a favorite implement for non-disciplinary \"fun\" spankings such as \"birthday spankings,\" as also for paddle games (such as trading blows) or a spanking pyramid or paddle machine. A paddle machine can be used in conjunction with a spanking bench. Numerous celebrities, including Jessica Jaymes, Jennifer Krum, Haydn Porter, Tabitha Stevens and Victoria Zdrok, have mounted Howard Stern's spanking bench to be paddled by his paddle machine, the \"Robospanker\". Paddles are also used by practitioners of erotic spanking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102989", "title": "Rive Gauche Nightclub", "text": "Rive Gauche Nightclub\n\nRive Gauche Nightclub, open late 1999 to mid-2005, was a popular nightclub located in the River West district near Chicago's Greektown neighborhood, and the Loop. Rive Gauche is a French title meaning Left Bank, an appropriate name for a nightclub that had a unique Parisian theme, despite it being located on the right bank of the Chicago River. Rive Gauche is simply known as \"Rive\" by Chicago’s nightclub enthusiast community.\n\nBefore Rive opened as a nightclub that eventually catered to a crowd of Chicago's young Polish population, it was known as a predominantly male homosexual venue dubbed The Generator. It is true that the owners of The Generator and Rive's owners are the same.\n\nRive was \"the place to be\" for European tourists and celebrities at the height of its popularity. Its visitors included the founder of Playboy Magazine, Hugh Hefner. Rive was undoubtedly an adult playground where only female patrons were allowed to dance on stripper poles and the miniature Eiffel Tower statues, sometimes three or four at a time. Some young women would eagerly participate in these stripper-like activities to gain attention from young male patrons, and the house-sanctioned photographers.\n\nEarly 2003 also saw troubles for Rive Nightclub. The E2 Nightclub catastrophe on Chicago's South Side caused the city to create a task force to inspect all Chicago nightclubs for possible capacity violations and other building code violations. Rive was immediately handed a citation and had to close down for short period of time to fix their outside exit doors so they will open outward as opposed to inward.\n\nIn 2005, due to the age of the nightclub and patrons passing up Rive for newer venues, Rive Gauche Nightclub owners decided to close down and remodel the club back into the Generator, a club catering particularly to the African-American gay community.\nThe Generator closed its doors on September 16, 2007 to remodel and reopen as Mannequin on November 30, 2007. The new mainstream club boasts itself as a modern-day spin on what Rive used to be.\n\nMannequin is among the few nightspots to implement Illinois's statewide public smoking ban well before becoming law on January 1, 2008. One reason for doing so is to preserve the club's new decor.\n\nRive's success was synonymous with speculations made on the club for debauchery and illegal activities. Most prominent was that of underage girls being allowed into the club every weekend. Other speculations of capacity violations, drugs, much sex in the private bathrooms by Rive patrons were also made, but no legal action was ever taken due to a lack of substantial evidence. To Rive's patrons, that is what made the club fun. They saw it as a place to go and do anything they want, no matter what morals tell them not to. In many ways, Rive was a modern-day Studio 54.\n\nIn early 2002, Chicago nightclub history might have been made when a cocktail waitress successfully sold 72 bottles of Champaigne to a single patron who, as rumor has it, was coaxing her to be his date for Valentine's Day. The bill and tip was for an undisclosed amount and it is unknown if she agreed to the date.\n"}
{"id": "2102996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102996", "title": "Huỳnh Tấn Phát", "text": "Huỳnh Tấn Phát\n\nHuỳnh Tấn Phát (15 February 1913, near Mỹ Tho, French Indochina – 30 September 1989, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam) was a South Vietnamese communist politician and revolutionary. He was a member of the First National Assembly (Democratic Republic of Vietnam), chairman of the Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam, and, after unification, Deputy Prime Minister of Vietnam.\n\nHuỳnh Tấn Phát joined the Communist Party of Vietnam in March 1945, and began revolutionary activities in Saigon, whereupon he was appointed Deputy Director of Information and Press Committee for the South. When the French re-occupied Saigon after World War II, they had him arrested and sentenced to two years in prison. Upon his release he resumed his revolutionary activities and in 1949 was appointed commissioner UBKCHC south, and the District Commissioner UBKCHC for Saigon - Cholon.\n\nHuỳnh Tấn Phát became chairman of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of the Republic of South Vietnam (PRG) on its formation in 1969. Upon the surrender of the South Vietnamese government on 30 April 1975, the PRG became the nominal government of South Vietnam. He held this post until 2 July 1976, when the country was reunified with the North, making him the only communist South Vietnamese prime minister. From 1976 to 1982 he was a vice premier in Vietnam, and in 1982 he became a Vice President of the Council of State.\n\nFor his devotion to the revolution he was awarded the Order of Ho Chi Minh.\n"}
{"id": "2103007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103007", "title": "One-electron reduction", "text": "One-electron reduction\n\nA one-electron reduction in organic chemistry involves the transfer of an electron from a donor compound to an organic substrate. It serves to differentiate between two electron organic reductions such as hydride transfer reactions. \n\nThe first intermediate in a one-electron reduction is often a radical anion, which then engages in secondary reactions. In the Birch reduction, the secondary reaction is proton abstraction from an alcohol. This reaction type is also called a dissolving metal reduction. Alkyne reduction to an alkene in the liquid ammonia/sodium system follows the same theme. The first radical anion intermediate abstracts a proton from ammonia to the free radical. A second one-electron transfer leads to the anion, which also abstracts a proton to the neutral alkene.\n\nIn the Wurtz reaction, two radical intermediates dimerize in a coupling reaction. Likewise, acetone is converted to pinacol with a magnesium-mercury amalgam in a pinacol coupling reaction. Acyloin condensation couples two carboxylic acids to a α-hydroxyketone. Reactions of this type are also called \"reductive couplings\". In the Clemmensen reduction of ketones to alkanes with zinc-mercury amalgam, the intermediate is an organozinc carbenoid. \n\nElectron rich organic molecules like tetrakis(dimethylamino)ethylene (TDAE) are effective reducing agents capable of generating the anion from alkyl halides such as 5-chloromethyl-6-nitrobenzo[1,3]dioxole:\n\nThe one-electron reduction potential of a molecule can be used to obtain an electron affinity. For example: The one-electron reduction potential of molecular oxygen gives a value of 1.07(1) eV.\n\nRecently, photoredox catalysis has become a very common way to engage in single electron reduction. \n"}
{"id": "2103008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103008", "title": "Prince Hubertus of Hohenzollern", "text": "Prince Hubertus of Hohenzollern\n\nPrince Hubertus of Hohenzollern (Hubertus Gustav Adolf Veit Georg Meinrad Maria Alexander) (born 10 June 1966) is the third child of Prince Johann Georg of Hohenzollern and of his wife Princess Birgitta of Sweden, sister of King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden.\n\nHubertus was born in Munich, Germany.\n\nIn 2000 Hubertus married Uta Maria König (born 25 February 1964, in Trier). Their civil wedding was held on 10 July 2000 in Grünwald; their religious wedding was held on 23 September 2000, in Palma de Majorca, Spain. They have two children:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103012", "title": "Jersey City Skeeters", "text": "Jersey City Skeeters\n\nThe Jersey City Skeeters were a minor league baseball team which operated in Jersey City, New Jersey. The club started in the 1860s and by 1870 joined the National Association of Base Ball Players.\n\nBy 1885, Jersey City had joined the Eastern League, but they dropped out before the end of the season. The team rejoined the league the following year, finishing in second place.\n\nIn 1887, a Jersey City Skeeters team was playing in the International League, but in 1888, they were in the Central League, a much lower league, competition-wise.\n\nThe team participated in three other leagues before 1902, with little success. In that year, however, the city of Jersey City built the club a new stadium, and the team committed to the Eastern League. They finished in third place in their first year in the league, but in 1903, they fielded a championship team. That year, the team won their first 18 games, and had a stretch of 25 consecutive victories. They won the league with a record of 92–33. The 1903 Skeeters were recognized as one of the 100 greatest minor league teams of all time.\n\nThat team was managed by 39-year-old player-manager Billy Murray, who stayed with the team through 1906, but the team never won another championship.\n\nThe Skeeters remained in the Eastern League and its successor, the International League until 1915, at which point the team's owner, Jack Dunn, moved the team to Baltimore, Maryland. A newly organized International League formed in 1918, following World War I, and Jersey City received a league franchise. An attempt was made to change the team's name from Skeeters (so named because of the ubiquitous mosquitos in the New Jersey swamps), but fans rejected the proposed Colts nickname, and the Skeeters name stuck. In 1933, however, the Great Depression caused the folding of many leagues and teams, and the Jersey City franchise was moved to Syracuse, New York.\n\nBaseball returned to Jersey City in 1937, when the New York Giants moved their highest-level minor league team to Jersey City, calling the team the Jersey City Giants.\n\nThe team name was revived as a vintage base ball team in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "2103026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103026", "title": "Heat burst", "text": "Heat burst\n\nIn meteorology, a heat burst is a rare atmospheric phenomenon characterized by gusty winds along with a rapid increase in temperature and decrease in dew point (moisture). Heat bursts typically occur during night-time and are associated with decaying thunderstorms.\n\nAlthough this phenomenon is not fully understood, it is theorized that the event is caused when rain evaporates (virga) into a parcel of cold, dry air high in the atmosphere- making the air denser than its surroundings. The parcel descends rapidly, warming due to compression, overshoots its equilibrium level and reaches the surface, similar to a downburst.\n\nRecorded temperatures during heat bursts have reached well above , sometimes rising by or more within only a few minutes. More extreme events have also been documented, where temperatures have been reported to exceed . However, such extreme events have never been officially verified. Heat bursts are also characterized by extremely dry air and are sometimes associated with very strong, even damaging, winds.\n\nIn general, heat bursts occur during the late spring and summer seasons. During these times, thunderstorms tend to generate due to day heating and lose their main energy during the evening hours. Due to a potential temperature increase, heat bursts normally occur at night; however, heat bursts have also been recorded to occur during the daytime. Heat bursts have lasted for times spanning from a couple of minutes to several hours. The rare phenomenon is usually accompanied by strong gusty winds, extreme temperature changes, and an extreme decrease in humidity. They occur near the end of a weakening thunderstorm cluster. Dry air and a low-level inversion are also present during the storm.\n\nAs the thunderstorm starts to dissipate, the layer of clouds start to rise. After the layer of clouds have risen, a rain-cooled layer remains. The cluster shoots a burst of unsaturated air down towards the ground. In doing so, the system loses all of its updraft related fuel. The raindrops begin to evaporate into dry air, which emphasizes the effects of the heat bursts. As the unsaturated air descends, the air pressure increases. The descending air parcel warms at the dry adiabatic lapse rate of approximately 10 °C per 1000 meters (5.5 °F per 1000 feet) of descent. The warm air from the cluster replaces the cool air on the ground. The effect is similar to someone blowing down on a puddle of water. \nOn 4 March 1990, the National Weather Service in Goodland, Kansas detected a system that had weakened, containing light rain showers and snow showers. It was followed by gusty winds and a temperature increase. A heat burst was being observed. The detection proved that heat bursts can occur in both summer months and winter months. The occurrence also proved that a weakening thunderstorm was not needed in the development of heat bursts.\n\nThe first step of forecasting and preparing for heat bursts is recognizing the events that come before heat bursts occur. Rain from a high convection cloud falls below cloud level and evaporates, cooling the air. Air parcels that are cooler than the surrounding environment fall. And lastly, temperature conversion mixed with a downdraft momentum continue downward until the air reaches the ground. The air parcels then become warmer than their environment. \nMcPherson, Lane, Crawford, and McPherson Jr. researched the heat burst system at the Oklahoma Mesonet, which is owned by both the University of Oklahoma and Oklahoma State University. The purpose of their research was to discover any technological benefits and challenges in detecting heat bursts, document the time of day and year that heat bursts mostly occur, and to research the topography of where heat bursts mostly occur in Oklahoma.\nScientists and meteorologists use archived data to manually study data that detected 390 potential heat burst days during a fifteen-year period. In studying the archived data, they observed that 58% of the potential days had dry-line passages, frontal passages or a temperature change. The temperature change was due to an increase in solar radiation in the hours of the morning or a daytime precipitation weather system. \nBy studying the archived data, the scientists' have the ability to determine the beginning, peak and end of heat burst conditions. The peak of heat burst conditions is the maximum observed temperature. The beginning of the heat burst occurrence is the time when the air temperature began to increase without decreasing until after the heat burst. The end of the heat burst is when the system ceased to affect the temperature and dew point of the area. \nIn addition to researching the life cycle and characteristics of heat bursts, a group of scientists concluded that the topography of Oklahoma coincided with the change in atmospheric moisture between northwest and southeast Oklahoma. An increase in convection normally occurs over the United States High Plains during the late spring and summer. They also concluded that a higher increase in convection develops if a mid-tropospheric lifting mechanism interacts with an elevated moist layer.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103028", "title": "Cathy Lee Crosby", "text": "Cathy Lee Crosby\n\nCathy Lee Crosby (born December 2, 1944) sometimes referred to as just Cathy Crosby is an American actress and former professional tennis player. She achieved TV and film success in the 1980s and was a co-host of the television series \"That's Incredible!\"\n\nCrosby was born in Los Angeles, California. Her father, Lou Crosby, was a scriptwriter-songwriter (he was also the National Commercial Spokesman for Dodge Automobiles on \"The Lawrence Welk Show\"), and her mother, Linda Hayes, was \"an RKO contract actress in the 1940s\". Cathy Lee was the middle daughter of three. Her family is not related to Bing Crosby. Her parents eventually separated, and her father relocated to Australia.\n\nShe excelled at tennis as a youth, starting the game at age 12. She was ranked as high as #7 in singles in US junior tennis competition and #4 in doubles, which she often played with her sister Linda Lou as her partner.\n\nShe graduated in 1968 cum laude from University of Southern California with a degree in psychology, although she originally was pre-med.\n\nCrosby was a professional tennis player who played at Wimbledon twice, quitting the sport professionally sometime between 1967 and 1970.\n\nAs an actress, her first TV appearance was as Susan in the episode 'The Lay of the Land' in the first season of \"It Takes a Thief\" (1968). Her first movie role was as Kay Butler in the 20th Century Fox crime drama \"The Laughing Policeman\" (1973) starring Walter Matthau, Bruce Dern, and Louis Gossett, Jr.\n\nIn 1974, she starred as the title character in the television film \"Wonder Woman\", a year before Lynda Carter would popularize the role in the weekly series \"Wonder Woman\". In 1975 she guest starred as Helen of Troy in the scifi/horror series \"\". Crosby starred in the movie \"Trackdown\" (1976) with James Mitchum, and in \"Coach\" (1978) with Michael Biehn, in which she played the coach of a high school basketball team who falls for one of her players. She starred in the horror movie \"The Dark\" (1979), opposite William Devane, and appeared in the 1982 TV miniseries \"World War III\", with Rock Hudson and David Soul. In earlier years, Crosby appeared in Barnaby Jones; episode titled \"Murder in the Doll's House\"(03/25/1973). \n\nCrosby was a co-host of the TV series \"That's Incredible!\" from 1980 to 1984 on ABC, which remains in world-wide syndication. In 1986, she was a guest commentator for the nationally televised special of World Wrestling Federation (WWF)'s \"WrestleMania 2\".\n\nCrosby starred in the Lifetime movie \"Untamed Love\" (1994), based on Torey Hayden's \"One Child\", and appeared in the film \"Ablaze\" (2001), opposite Ice-T and Tom Arnold.\n\nCrosby was married at age 21 but divorced within two years. She was in a relationship with football star Joe Theismann throughout the early 1980s. Their romantic relationship ended in 1991, after which she sued him for $4.5 million because he \"abandoned his promise to financially support her.\" Theismann responded with a countersuit, ultimately leading to both settling out of court. According to her autobiography, \"Let the Magic Begin\", when Theismann sued for half of her assets, Crosby declared bankruptcy to stop his litigation, although these allegations have not been confirmed by other sources and the lawsuit documents were kept confidential.\n\nShe dated actor Richard Roundtree during the mid 1970s.\n\nShe was briefly a follower of Scientology.\n\n13. Demetria Fulton previewed Crosby in Barnaby Jones; episode titled \"Murder in the Doll's House\" (03/25/1973).\n\n"}
{"id": "2103048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103048", "title": "Pennsylvania Route 54", "text": "Pennsylvania Route 54\n\nPennsylvania Route 54 (PA 54) is a state highway which runs for in eastern Pennsylvania. It runs from U.S. Route 15 (US 15), which is three miles (5 km) west of Montgomery, Lycoming County in the west, to US 209 in Nesquehoning, Carbon County in the east.\n\nPA 54 begins at an intersection with US 15 in Clinton Township, Lycoming County, heading east on a two-lane undivided road. The road passes through farmland and woodland with homes as it passes to the south of Bald Eagle Mountain. The route curves southeast before it turns south and runs past businesses. PA 54 enters the borough of Montgomery and becomes Main Street, passing homes. The route passes through the downtown area of Montgomery before it turns northeast onto Montgomery Street, running between residences and businesses to the northwest and Norfolk Southern's Buffalo Line to the southeast. PA 54 comes to an intersection with PA 405, which continues northeast on Montgomery Street, and the two routes become concurrent and head southeast on 2nd Street, crossing the railroad tracks and running through residential areas. The road crosses the West Branch Susquehanna River and leaves Montgomery for Muncy Creek Township, becoming unnamed and turning southwest into wooded areas. \n\nPA 54/PA 405 head into Delaware Township in Northumberland County and run through farmland before PA 405 splits to the southwest. PA 54 continues southeast through farm fields and woodland, passing through the community of Delaware Run. The road runs through more rural land with some development, heading more to the east. The route reaches a diamond interchange with Interstate 180 (I-180), with a park and ride lot located at the northwest corner of this interchange. Past here, PA 54 has an intersection with the Susquehanna Trail, at which point it crosses into Lewis Township. The road curves southeast and runs through agricultural areas with some woods and residences. The route heads into the borough of Turbotville and passes businesses, coming to an intersection with PA 44. At this point, PA 44 turns east for a concurrency with PA 54 and the road gains a center left-turn lane as it runs past more businesses. The road becomes two lanes again and heads back into Lewis Township, running through a patch of woodland before heading through farmland with some development.\nPA 44/PA 54 head into Limestone Township in Montour County and the road becomes Continental Boulevard, passing through more rural areas. PA 44 splits from PA 54 near the community of Schuyler by turning northeast, and PA 54 continues southeast into Anthony Township. The road runs through farmland with some wooded areas and residences. The route crosses into Derry Township, turning south in the community of Dieffenbach and crossing Norfolk Southern's Watsontown Secondary before running through rural areas to the west of the Montour Power Plant. PA 54 crosses the Chillisquaque Creek before it enters the small borough of Washingtonville, where the name becomes Water Street and the route is lined with homes along with a few businesses. The road heads back into Derry Township and becomes Continental Boulevard again, running through woods before coming to a junction with PA 254. The route continues south through farmland with some wooded areas and homes, heading into Valley Township. PA 54 heads into forested areas and gains a second eastbound lane as it climbs a hill, turning to the east into areas of fields with some homes. The road becomes two lanes again briefly before it gains a second westbound lane as it descends the hill, heading into forests and turning to the south. The route becomes a four-lane divided highway and curves southeast, passing through rural areas with some homes. PA 54 comes to an interchange with I-80 and heads past businesses. The road runs through wooded areas with some development prior to reaching an intersection with PA 642 near the community of Mausdale. A park and ride lot is located east of this intersection. Here, PA 642 heads southeast for a short concurrency with PA 54 before it splits to the northeast. PA 54 crosses into Mahoning Township and heads through a gap in forested Montour Ridge, passing near some development. The road turns south and enters the borough of Danville, running past businesses. The route heads south-southwest and comes to an intersection with US 11 before it crosses the North Shore Railroad. PA 54 passes more commercial development before coming to an intersection with Mahoning Street. At this point, the route becomes two-lane undivided Factory Street and heads through a short tunnel as it passes through a residential neighborhood, coming to a bridge over the Susquehanna River and crossing back into Mahoning Township as it begins to head over the river.\n\nUpon crossing the Susquehanna River, PA 54 enters the borough of Riverside in Northumberland County and becomes Mill Street, crossing Norfolk Southern's Sunbury Line. Immediately after the railroad crossing, the route turns southeast onto Elysburg Road and runs between residential areas to the southwest and the Sunbury Line and the Susquehanna River to the northeast. The road leaves Riverside for Rush Township and heads through wooded areas alongside the railroad tracks and the river. The Sunbury Line and Susquehanna River curve east away from the road and the route continues southeast through farmland with some woods and development. PA 54 turns south and continues through rural land, curving back to the southeast. The road gains a second eastbound lane and passes through the community of Union Corner as it ascends a hill. The route reaches the top of the hill and is briefly four lanes before it descends the hill with one eastbound lane and two westbound lanes. PA 54 continues southeast through farms and woods with some homes and descends a hill as it gains a second westbound lane. The road briefly enters Mayberry Township in Montour County before it enters Ralpho Township in Northumberland County and turns south and then southwest through forested areas. The route curves south and becomes North Market Street, heading through farmland with some development and narrowing back to two lanes. PA 54 heads into the community of Elysburg, where it heads past homes and a few businesses. The road turns southeast and becomes South Market Street, heading through more developed areas. The route crosses PA 487 in an area of businesses and continues southeast through residential areas with some farmland. PA 54 gains a second eastbound lane as it ascends a forested hill, turning to the east. The road becomes unnamed and is three lanes with two westbound lanes and one eastbound lane as it descends the hill. The route becomes two lanes again and runs through farmland with some woods and residences, passing through the community of Bear Gap.\n\nPA 54 heads south through Bear Gap in forested Little Mountain to the west of the South Branch Roaring Creek, gaining a second eastbound lane and crossing into Coal Township. The road turns east and ascends forested Big Mountain, passing south of a tract of Weiser State Forest that contains the Shamokin Reservoir and entering Mount Carmel Township. The route descends the mountain with two eastbound lanes and one westbound lane. PA 54 becomes three lanes with a center left-turn lane and heads southeast through the residential community of Natalie as Colonial Avenue. The route becomes an unnamed three-lane road with one eastbound lane and two westbound lanes as it descends a forested hill. The road turns south and passes west of a coal mine before narrowing to two lanes. PA 54 heads past businesses and crosses PA 61 in the community of Strong. Past this intersection, the route becomes Strong Connector and heads southeast into forested areas, curving south. The road turns west and then south, becoming Locust Gap Highway and crossing the Shamokin Valley Railroad before coming to an intersection with PA 901. At this point, PA 901 turns south to form a concurrency with PA 54, passing through a forested gap in Mahanoy Mountain and running to the west of a Reading Blue Mountain and Northern Railroad line. The road curves southeast and passes through the residential community of Locust Gap, heading east through more forests at this point. PA 901 splits from PA 54 south of Merrian by turning southeast, with PA 54 continuing east as an unnamed road through more wooded terrain.\n\nPA 54 enters Conyngham Township in Columbia County, crossing the Reading Blue Mountain and Northern Railroad line before passing through the residential community of Locustdale as Main Street. While passing through Locustdale, the route crosses into Butler Township in Schuylkill County. The road runs through forests before it enters the borough of Ashland and becomes Centre Street. The route passes near commercial development before it reaches an intersection with PA 61. At this point, PA 61 heads east concurrent with PA 54, and the two routes head past homes before running through the commercial downtown of Ashland. PA 61 splits to the south and PA 54 passes homes before crossing Mahanoy Creek and running past businesses, becoming East Centre Street and running between the creek to the north and industrial areas to the south. The route leaves Ashland for Butler Township again and heads into forested areas, turning northeast and crossing the Mahanoy Creek before passing through the community of Big Mine Run. The road becomes West Mahanoy Avenue and winds east through forests to the north of the creek. PA 54 enters the borough of Girardville as West Mahanoy Avenue and runs between woods to the north and residential areas to the south. The route becomes East Mahanoy Avenue and continues through developed areas, turning to the northeast. PA 54 heads back into Butler Township and runs through forests before passing through the community of Connerton as Connerton Road. The route passes coal mines and heads into West Mahanoy Township. The road runs through forested areas before coming to the residential community of Lost Creek, where it turns south before making a turn east onto Lower Main Road. PA 54 runs through more woods and passes through the community of West William Penn, where it becomes Upper Main Road and runs through more rural areas as it heads through the community of Shaft. The route turns north and runs between coal mines before coming to the community of Brownsville, where it turns east and enters the borough of Shenandoah. Here, the road becomes West Centre Street and runs between Shenandoah Valley Junior Senior High School to the north and businesses to the south before becoming lined with homes. In the downtown area of Shenandoah, PA 54 crosses PA 924 and becomes East Centre Street, running through more residential areas with some businesses and industrial establishments. The route turns southeast and runs through forested areas, leaving Shenandoah for Mahanoy Township. The road becomes Suffolk Road and turns south, passing near the communities of Ellen Gowan and Maple Hill before heading past coal mines as it passes west of the former site of the St. Nicholas Breaker, once claimed to be the largest coal breaker in the world. In the community of Saint Nicholas, PA 54 turns east onto West Centre Street and heads past more coal mines as it runs north of a Reading Blue Mountain and Northern Railroad line. The road curves northeast and runs through wooded areas with some homes, passing over the railroad tracks. The route heads into the borough of Mahanoy City as West Centre Street and turns east, passing businesses before running through residential areas. PA 54 heads into the commercial downtown of Mahanoy City and comes to an intersection with the southern terminus of PA 339, where the name changes to East Centre Street. The road leaves the downtown area and becomes lined with homes as it continues east through the borough. The route leaves Mahanoy City for Mahanoy Township again, becoming four-lane divided Vulcan Hill Road and turning southeast into forested areas. PA 54 curves east and heads near some development and passes under a Reading Blue Mountain and Northern Railroad line before reaching a modified cloverleaf interchange with I-81. \n\nFollowing this interchange, the route narrows to a two-lane undivided road and heads northeast through forests, crossing into Ryan Township and becoming Barnesville Drive. The road curves east and passes through residential areas in the community of Hosensock. PA 54 heads east near more developed areas and passes through the community of Park Crest, crossing the Reading Blue Mountain and Northern Railroad's Reading Division line and turning south-southeast to parallel the railroad tracks through wooded areas with some fields and development. The road and railroad tracks turn east, with the road crossing into Rush Township and becoming Pine Creek Drive. The route runs east-northeast through wooded areas with some farm fields and residences as it follows Pine Creek and the Reading Blue Mountain and Northern Railroad tracks, passing through the community of Barnesville. PA 54 heads east into forested areas and crosses the Little Schuylkill River in Mintzers, where the railroad tracks turn south away from the road to follow the river. The route becomes Mahanoy Avenue and heads into the community of Hometown, heading north of the Hometown Farmers Market before running through residential areas. The road turns northeast and comes to an intersection with PA 309 in a business area, where the name changes to Lafayette Avenue. PA 54 runs past more homes before it leaves Hometown, turning southeast as it passes through a mix of fields and development. The route turns northeast and becomes Hauto Highway, heading through forested areas as it passes to the northwest of Nesquehoning Mountain, with the Reading Blue Mountain and Northern Railroad's Reading Division line parallel to the north. Along this stretch, the road passes south of Greenwood Lake, Lake Hauto, and the Lake Hauto residential development. While passing south of Lake Hauto, PA 54 enters the borough of Nesquehoning in Carbon County and becomes Stock Street, continuing through forested areas with some residential and commercial development to the south of the Carbon & Schuylkill Railroad, which is operated as part of the Reading Blue Mountain and Northern Railroad's Reading Division. Farther east, the route passes near industrial areas and becomes Industrial Complex, heading east. PA 54 comes to its eastern terminus at an intersection with US 209 at the western edge of the residential part of Nesquehoning.\n\nIn 1961, the section of PA 54 between Mausdale and Ashland was replaced by PA 45 in order simplify route numbers by connecting the two segments of that route. On May 9, 1966, PA 54 was extended to its current eastern terminus by replacing PA 45 between Mausdale and Nesquehoning; this change was made to establish a direct connection to I-80.\n\nBecause of the underground coal mine fire in Centralia, the original branch of Routes 54 and 61, which went from Centralia to Ashland, has been permanently closed because the road has severely opened up and buckled extensively. This branch was repaired in 1983 for $500,000; then in 1992 it was deemed too expensive to repair again. In 1994, the branch was permanently closed.\n\nPA 54 used to run concurrent with PA 61 through Centralia but was rerouted along Pennsylvania Route 901 and three quadrant routes in 1999, completely bypassing Centralia. Nowadays, only PA 61 goes through Centralia while PA 54 now goes directly from Ashland to Mount Carmel Township along the aforementioned alignment via PA 901. The road signs for PA 54 were removed from Centralia several years ago.\n\nRoutes 54 and 61 meet up again at an intersection just outside Mount Carmel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103069", "title": "Deenanath Mangeshkar", "text": "Deenanath Mangeshkar\n\nPt. Deenanath Mangeshkar (\"né\" Hardikar; 29 December 1900 – 24 April 1942) was a well-known Marathi theatre actor, a renowned Natya Sangeet musician and a Hindustani classical vocalist. He is also the father of well-known singers Lata Mangeshkar, Asha Bhosle, Meena Khadikar and Usha Mangeshkar as well as composer Hridaynath Mangeshkar.\n\nPt. Deenanath Mangeshkar (born Deenanath Hardikar), popularly known as Dina, was born at Mangeshi, Goa on 29 December 1900. His father, Ganesh Bhatt Navathe Hardikar (Abhisheki), was a Karhade Brahmin who served as priest at the famous Mangueshi Temple in Goa. His mother Yesubai (sometimes referred to as Yesubai Rane) belonged to the Devadasi community of Goa, which is now known as Gomantak Maratha Samaj. Since the family lived in Mangeshi village in Goa, and Deenanath was born there, he was given the surname \"Mangeshkar,\" which means \"of Mangesh.\" Incidentally, Mangesh is the name of the deity worshipped in the Mangueshi Temple.\n\nAs a \"Devadasi\", Yesubai often sang and danced at temple events and festivals. She is said to have had an unerring genius for music. Deenanath's father's surname was \"Hardikar\", whose family performed the Abhishekam \"(ritual bathing)\" of the lingam of Shiva at Mangueshi Temple, thus they were known as \"Abhisheki\"s. Deenanath adopted the surname \"Mangeshkar\", which means \"from the village of Mangeshi\" in Konkani and Marathi.\nThe father of the renowned Indian vocalist Jitendra Abhisheki was Deenanath's half-brother.\n\nDeenanath Mangeshkar started taking singing and music lessons from Shri Baba Mashelkar at the age of five. He was also to become a disciple at Gwalior school. He was fascinated by the variety and aggressive style of Gayanacharya Pundit Ramkrishna bua Vaze and became gandabandh shagird. In his youth, he travelled to Bikaner and took formal training in classical music from Pundit Sukhdev Prasad, father of Pundit Mani Prasad, of the Kirana Gharana. He joined the Kirloskar Sangeet Mandali and the Kirloskar Natak Mandali at the age of 11. Later, he left Kirloskar Mandali, and formed Balwant Mandali with his friends Chintamanrao Kolhatkar and Krishnarao Kolhapure. This new group had Gadkari's blessing, but shortly after the group was formed; Gadkari died in January 1919.\n\nDeenanath's good looks and melodious voice won him popularity in the Marathi theatre. So much so that the then giant of the Marathi stage, Bal Gandharva publicly declared that he would welcome the entry of Deenanath in his organisation \"\"by throwing a carpet of rupee coins under his feet\"\".\n\nDuring the period of 1935, he produced 3 films, one of them being \"Krishnarjun Yuddha\". It was made in both Hindi and Marathi, and a song from it, sung by and filmed on Deenanath. Deenanath also studied Indian classical music under Ramkrishna Vaze. He also studied astrology.\n\nPartly out of his interest in astrology and numerology, he believed that dramas with 5 letters, with anuswar (diacritical) on the third letter, were lucky for him. Examples : Ranadundubhi (रणदुंदुभी), Rajsanyas (राजसंन्यास), Deshkantak (देशकंटक).\n\nThe dramas produced by Deenanath were extremely popular amongst the masses due to his masterly presentation of the songs composed by Vaze Bua and the patriotic content.\n\nDeenanath's first wife was Narmada (later renamed \"Shrimati\" by her in-laws). She was the daughter of Seth Haridas Ramdas Lad – a prosperous businessman of the town of Thalner (between Dhule and Jalgaon (Khandesh), Maharashtra. Deenanath and Narmada were married in 1922. Deenanath changed his wife's name to \"Shrimati\". She was 19 at the time and Deenanath was 21.\n\nThey had a daughter named Latika, who died in her infancy. Deenanath's wife died shortly thereafter.\n\nDeenanath's second wife was his first wife's sister. Her name was Shevanti. Some sources claim that Deenanath named his second wife \"Shrimati\" as well. Some have her name as \"Shuddhamati\".\n\nThe marriage of Deenanath and Shevanti was solemnised at a quiet ceremony within the house in 1927. Shevanti's mother chose not to attend.\n\nDeenanath and his second wife had five children: Lata, Meena, Asha, Usha, and Hridaynath.\n\nTheir first child was named Hema. But Deenanath called her Lata in memory of his deceased daughter. The name stuck and it is by that name that his legendary eldest daughter, Lata Mangeshkar, is known today.\n\nDeenanath was determined to take his first step in his professional life with a distinctive surname. So, he chose the last name Mangeshkar. The surname was derived from name of his family deity – Shri Mangesh (an Avatar of Lord Shiva) located at Mangeshi, Ponda, Goa.\n\nDeenanath took to alcohol during the days of financial hardship in 1930s. After being ill for a few weeks, he died in Pune in April 1942. He was only 41 at the time his death.\n\nHis family has erected a Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and research center in his name in Pune.\n\nSome of his theatrical productions, in which he sang and starred too, are \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103074", "title": "Epibatidine", "text": "Epibatidine\n\nEpibatidine is a chlorinated alkaloid that is secreted by the Ecuadoran frog \"Epipedobates anthonyi\". It was discovered by John W. Daly in 1974, but its structure was not fully elucidated until 1992. Whether epibatidine is the first observed example of a chlorinated alkaloid remains controversial, due to challenges in conclusively identifying the compound from the limited samples collected by Daly. By the time that high-resolution spectrometry was used in 1991, there remained less than one milligram of extract from Daly's samples, raising concerns about possible contamination. Samples from other batches of the same species of frog failed to yield epibatidine.\nEpibatidine is toxic. Its toxicity stems from its ability to interact with nicotinic and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors. These receptors are involved in the transmission of painful sensations, and in movement, among other functions. Epibatidine then causes numbness, and, eventually, paralysis. Doses are lethal when the paralysis causes respiratory arrest. Originally, it was thought that epibatidine could be useful as a drug. However, because of its unacceptable therapeutic index, it is no longer being researched for potential therapeutic uses.\n\nEpibatidine was discovered by John W. Daly in 1974. It was isolated from the skin of \"Epipdobates anthonyi\" frogs collected by Daly and colleague, Charles Myers. Between 1974 and 1979, Daly and Myers collected the skins of nearly 3000 frogs from various sites in Ecuador, after finding that a small injection of a preparation from their skin caused analgesic (painkilling) effects in mice that resembled those of an opioid. Despite its common name - Anthony's Poison Arrow frog - suggesting that it was used by natives when hunting, a paper written by Daly in 2000 claimed that there was no local folklore or folk medicine surrounding the frogs and that they were considered largely unimportant by the locals.\n\nThe structure of epibatidine was elucidated in 1992, an effort hindered by \"E. anthonyi\" gaining IUCN protected status in 1984. Furthermore, these frogs do not produce the toxin when bred and reared in captivity, because they do not synthesize epibatidine themselves. Like other poison dart frogs, they instead obtain it through their diet and then sequester it on their skin. Likely dietary sources are beetles, ants, mites, and flies. Overcoming the difficulties, the structure was eventually determined, and the first synthesis of epibatidine was completed in 1993. Many other synthesis methods have been developed since.\n\nBecause of its analgesic effect, there was intense interest in epibatidine's use as a drug, because it was found not to be an opioid. This meant that it could potentially be used without fear of addiction. However, it was soon found that it cannot be used in humans because the dose resulting in toxic symptoms is too low for it to be safe.\n\nSeveral total synthesis routes have been devised due to the relative scarcity of epibatidine in nature.\n\nAfter the discovery of the structure of epibatidine, more than fifty ways to synthesize it in the laboratory have been devised. In the first reported example, a nine-step procedure produces the substance as a racemate (in contrast, the naturally occurring compound is the (+)-enantiomer; the (−)-enantiomer does not occur naturally). It was later determined that the (+) and (-) enantiomers had equivalent analgesic as well as toxic effects. The process has proven to be quite productive, with a yield of about 40%.\n\nAn enantioselective synthesis reported by E J Corey starting from chloronicotinaldehyde is outlined below:\nIn addition to Corey's method, other notable methods include those of Broka, Huang and Shen, and Clayton and Regan.\n\nA number of approaches to discovering structural analogs of epibatine that maintain analgesics effects, but without the toxicity, have been attempted. For example, Abbott Laboratories has produced derivatives of epibatidine including ABT-594. Other epibatidine analogs include ABT-418, epiboxidine and their derivatives. A synthesis of epibatidine, utilizing a microbial hydroxylation of an unactivated carbon in a 7-azanorbornane was published in 1999.\n\nEpibatidine is a pyridine with a structure similar to that of nicotine. It is a hygroscopic oily substance which is a base.\n\nEpibatidine has two mechanisms of action: it can bind to either nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) or muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChR). Specifically, the analgesic property of epibatidine is believed to take place by its binding to the α4/β2 subtype of nicotinic receptors. Epibatidine also binds to the α3/β4 subtype and to a much lesser extent α7 receptors (affinity 300-fold less than for α4/β2) The rank order of affinities is αε > αγ > αδ.\n\nNicotinic acetylcholine receptors are found in the post-synaptic membranes of nerve cells. They propagate neurotransmission in the central and peripheral nervous system. When neurotransmitters bind to these receptors, ion channels open, allowing Na and Ca ions to move across the membrane. This depolarizes the post-synaptic membrane, inducing an action potential that propagates the signal. This signal will ultimately induce release of dopamine and norepinephrine, resulting in an antinociceptive effect on the organism.\nThe usual neurotransmitter for nAChR is acetylcholine. However, other substances (such as epibatidine and nicotine) are also able to bind to the receptor and induce a similar, if not identical, response. Epibatidine has an extremely high affinity for nAChRs, depending on the receptor subtype, from 0.05 nM at the α4β2 subtype to 22 nM at the α7 subtype. Affinity as well as efficacy (and thus also potency) are much higher than for nicotine.\n\nThe paralytic property of epibatidine takes place after its binding to muscle-type nicotinic receptors.\n\nLow doses of epibatidine will only affect the nAChRs, due to a higher affinity to nAChRs than to mAChRs. Higher doses, however, will cause epibatidine to bind to the mAChRs.\n\nBoth (+)- and (-)-enantiomers of epibatidine are biologically active, and both have similar binding affinities to nAChRs Only the (+)-enantiomer does not induce tolerance. While this may be a potential therapeutic advantage over morphine, epibatidine has not entered clinical trials because even very small doses are lethal to rodents.\n\nEpibatidine has several toxic consequences. Empirically proven effects include splanchnic sympathetic nerve discharge and increased arterial pressure. The nerve discharge effects can cause antinociception partially mediated by agonism of central nicotinic acetylcholine receptors at low doses of epibatidine; 5 µg/kg. At higher doses, however, epibatidine will cause paralysis and loss of consciousness, coma and eventually death. The median lethal dose (LD) of epibatidine lies between 1.46 µg/kg and 13.98 µg/kg. This makes epibatidine somewhat more toxic than dioxin (with an average LD of 22.8 µg/kg). Due to the small difference between its toxic concentration and antinociceptive concentration, its therapeutic uses are very limited.\n\nIn research on mice, administration of doses greater than 5 μg/kg of epibatidine caused a dose-dependent paralyzing effect on the organism. With doses over 5 μg/kg, symptoms included hypertension (increased blood pressure), paralysis in the respiratory system, seizures, and, ultimately, death. The symptoms do, however, change drastically when lower doses are given. Mice became resistant to pain and heat with none of the negative effects of higher doses.\n\nEpibatidine most effectively enters the body through injection. In vitro studies seem to suggest that epibatidine is hardly, if at all, metabolized in the human body.\n\nAlso there is currently little information on the path of clearance from the body. Maximum concentration in the brain is reached at about 30 minutes after entering the body.\n\nEpibatidine has a high analgesic potency, as stated above. Studies show it has a potency at least 200 times that of morphine. As the compound was not addictive nor did it cause habituation, it was initially thought to be very promising to replace morphine as a painkiller. However, the therapeutic concentration is very close to the toxic concentration. This means that even at a therapeutic dose (5 µg/kg), some epibatidine might bind to the muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and cause adverse effects, such as hypertension, bradycardia and muscular paresis.\n\nCompared to the gold standard in pain management, morphine, epibatidine needed only 2.5 μg/kg to initiate a pain-relieving effect whilst the same effect required approximately 10 mg/kg of morphine (4,000 times the efficacy.) Currently, only rudimentary research into epibatidine's effects has yet been performed; the drug has been administered only to rodents for analysis at this time.\n\nThe antidote to epibatidine is mecamylamine, a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist that is non-selective and non-competitive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103081", "title": "West Virginia House of Delegates", "text": "West Virginia House of Delegates\n\nThe West Virginia House of Delegates is the lower house of the West Virginia Legislature. Only three states—Maryland, Virginia and West Virginia—refer to their lower house as the House of Delegates.\n\nRegular sessions begin with an organizational day on the second Wednesday of January of each year. The length of regular session is limited to 60 calendar days. The governor can call for special sessions.\n\nDelegates are elected for terms of two years.\n\nDelegates submit bill proposals to the Office of Legislative Services or legislative staff counsel, who draft the bill. Once the bill draft is approved by the delegate, it is submitted for introduction. Bills then undergo committee review and three readings in the house of origin and then the other house of the state legislature.\n\nAn unusual feature of the West Virginia legislative process is that revenue bills can originate in either house. The state constitution also prohibits multiple subjects in a single bill.\n\nIf approved by both the West Virginia House of Delegates and the West Virginia Senate, bills are submitted to the governor, who may sign them into law or veto them. State legislators can override the governor's veto of bills with a simple majority vote of both houses, unless the bill is a revenue bill, in which case two-thirds of the members elected to each house are required to override the governor's veto or line-item veto.\n\nPrior to the 1970 Census, districts always respected county lines, with districts always consisting of either a single entire county, or several entire counties. Beginning with that year, the state began to use smaller geographic areas.\n\nThe 2000 House of Delegates' districting system divided the state into 58 districts that elected a varying number of members. The majority of districts, 35, were single-member districts. 23 districts were multi-member districts, varying from two to seven (the 30th District in Kanawha County) delegates.\n\nIn response to the 2010 Census, the Legislature again was required to redistrict. The Republican Party, and groups from the growing eastern panhandle and Putnam County were among those calling for 100 single member districts. Eventually redistricting was adopted by House Bill 201, which divided the state into 67 districts, of which 47 are one-member districts, 11 two-member districts, 6 three-member districts, 2 four-member districts, and 1 five-member district. The old 30th District was abolished; however, the five-member district, covering most of Monongalia County, remains among the ten largest multi-member lower house districts in the country. These changes took effect with the 2012 election cycle. The state Supreme Court rejected legal challenges and no federal challenge was filed.\n\nThe Speaker of the House is selected by its members. In contrast to the tradition of the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, the Speaker must vote unless excused. The House rules state that in some cases, he or she is not required to vote unless the House is equally divided, or unless his or her vote, if given to the minority, will make the division equal. In the latter case, the question is lost.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103090", "title": "Pennsylvania Route 100", "text": "Pennsylvania Route 100\n\nPennsylvania Route 100 (PA 100) is a long state highway in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania that runs from U.S. Route 202 (US 202) near West Chester north to PA 309 in Pleasant Corners. The route runs between the western suburbs of Philadelphia and the Lehigh Valley region of the state, serving Chester, Montgomery, Berks, and Lehigh counties. PA 100 intersects several important highways including US 30 in Exton, the Pennsylvania Turnpike (Interstate 76, I-76) near Lionville, US 422 near Pottstown, US 222 in Trexlertown, and I-78/US 22 in Fogelsville. PA 100 has several sections which are multi-lane divided highway with some interchanges, including between US 202 and the Pennsylvania Turnpike in Chester County, between south of Pottstown and New Berlinville, and between Trexlertown and Fogelsville.\n\nWhat would become PA 100 was originally designated as PA 62 in 1927, running between the Delaware border south of Chadds Ford and US 309/PA 312 in Allentown. PA 62 was rerouted to reach its northern end at PA 29 (now PA 309) in Pleasant Corners a year later. A northern section of PA 62 was designated between PA 15 in Wilkes-Barre and US 106/PA 7 (now US 6) in Tunkhannock in 1927, being replaced with PA 92 a year later. In 1932, PA 62 was renumbered to PA 100 to avoid duplication with US 62. In the 1950s, the route was realigned between south of Bechtelsville and Bally. PA 100 was moved to its four-lane alignment between south of Pottstown and New Berlinville in the 1960s. Between the 1950s and 1960s, the northern terminus was cut back to Fogelsville with US 309 replacing the route north of there. The section of the route between Exton and Lionville was widened between the 1950s and the 1970s. A freeway along the route in Chester County was proposed in the 1960s, with a short section built between PA 100 south of Exton and US 202 north of West Chester. The southern terminus of PA 100 was moved from Delaware Route 100 (DE 100) at the state line, and placed at the south end of the connector to US 202, in 2003 in order to reduce through traffic in West Chester. PA 100 was rerouted to bypass Trexlertown in 2005. A bypass of Eagle called Graphite Mine Road was completed in 2009, but PA 100 remained on its original alignment after the bypass was built.\n\nPA 100 begins at a partial interchange with the US 202 freeway north of the borough of West Chester in West Goshen Township, Chester County, with access to southbound US 202 and from northbound US 202. From this interchange, the route heads northwest as a four-lane freeway past suburban development, crossing into West Whiteland Township. PA 100 comes to a southbound exit and northbound entrance with Pottstown Pike, at which point the freeway ends and the route continues at-grade as four-lane divided Pottstown Pike. The road passes under Amtrak's Keystone Corridor west of the Exton station, which serves Amtrak and SEPTA's Paoli/Thorndale Line trains, and an abandoned railroad line before coming to an interchange with the US 30 freeway.\n\nPast this, the route heads north-northwest into the community of Exton as a six-lane divided highway and passes commercial development, running to the east of the Main Street at Exton shopping center. PA 100 crosses US 30 Bus. (Lincoln Highway) and passes to the west of Exton Square Mall. From here, the route continues north as a divided roadway with several intersections controlled by jughandles. The road heads north past more commercial development and narrows to four lanes as it heads into more wooded areas with some development, crossing into Uwchlan Township. PA 100 passes a northbound weigh station before it comes to an intersection with Marchwood Road/Ship Road. The route curves to the northwest and continues near suburban residential and commercial development, turning to the west as it reaches an intersection with PA 113 in the community of Lionville. PA 100 heads northwest between woods to the southwest and fields to the northeast as it reaches a trumpet interchange providing access to the Pennsylvania Turnpike (I-76) at the Downingtown interchange. The road passes near business parks and enters Upper Uwchlan Township as it comes to a bridge under the Pennsylvania Turnpike and reaches the community of Eagle.\nUpon reaching Eagle, PA 100 becomes a five-lane road with a center left-turn lane before it turns northwest to remain on two-lane undivided Pottstown Pike, with Graphite Mine Road continuing straight to bypass Eagle to the east. The route passes businesses in the center of the community, where it meets Little Conestoga Road adjacent to the Eagle Tavern and briefly becomes a divided highway. From here, PA 100 heads north as a undivided road and intersects with Graphite Mine Road again. The road continues past a mix of residential subdivisions with some farm fields and businesses. PA 100 crosses into West Vincent Township, where it gains a second northbound lane as it passes through woods. The route becomes a three-lane road with a center left-turn lane as it passes commercial development and comes to an intersection with PA 401 in the village of Ludwigs Corner. Following this, PA 100 becomes a two-lane road and runs through a mix of farmland and woodland, crossing into East Nantmeal Township. The road curves northeast through forested areas and enters South Coventry Township, where it turns north and briefly reenters East Nantmeal Township before continuing back into South Coventry Township. The route continues through rural areas with some development, crossing French Creek and passing through the community of Pughtown before it comes to the PA 23 junction in the community of Bucktown.\n\nAfter this intersection, PA 100 heads north through wooded areas with some farm fields and residences as a three-lane road with a center turn lane. The road crosses Pigeon Creek into North Coventry Township and passes farm fields before entering commercial areas. The route widens into a divided highway as South Hanover Street splits off to the northeast. At this point, the road becomes a partially controlled access highway with at-grade intersections, some grade separations, and no private driveways. PA 100 turns into a two-lane undivided road and passes over Neiman Road on a bridge as it runs through a mix of rural land and development, widening into a four-lane divided highway. The route comes to an interchange with PA 724 to the west of the community of South Pottstown and to the east of the Coventry Mall. A short distance later, the road reaches a cloverleaf interchange with the US 422 freeway.\n\nUpon crossing River Road and the Schuylkill River on a bridge, PA 100 enters the borough of Pottstown in Montgomery County, where it heads through woods and passes over the Schuylkill River Trail and Keystone Boulevard before coming to a bridge over Norfolk Southern's Harrisburg Line. The road reaches a partial interchange with West High Street, with access from northbound PA 100 to westbound West High Street and from eastbound West High Street to southbound PA 100. Immediately after, the route intersects the southern terminus of PA 663, which heads east on West King Street, at-grade. The road runs past businesses and curves northeast, crossing the Colebrookdale Railroad at-grade and passing over Manatawny Creek and Manatawny Street. PA 100 passes near residential and commercial development, heading through a corner of West Pottsgrove Township before it enters Upper Pottsgrove Township. The road continues north through wooded areas with some nearby homes and businesses, coming to a bridge over Pine Ford Road before reaching a diamond interchange with Farmington Avenue. The route heads northeast through a mix of farmland and woodland, curving north into Douglass Township. PA 100 heads northeast through rural land with some development and turns north to encounter PA 73 at a diamond interchange to the west of Gilbertsville. Past this interchange, the road continues north near commercial development.\n\nUpon crossing County Line Road, PA 100 enters Colebrookdale Township in Berks County and heads north through rural areas with some development as an unnamed road, curving northwest to an interchange with Montgomery Avenue near the community of New Berlinville that provides access to the borough of Boyertown and PA 562. Following this interchange, the partially controlled access highway section ends as the route narrows to a two-lane undivided road and passes by businesses. The road passes east of a quarry and heads into Washington Township upon crossing Swamp Creek, bypassing the borough of Bechtelsville to the east. PA 100 turns to the northeast and passes through a mix of woods and fields with some residential and commercial development, heading to the west of Grandview Speedway. The route heads through the community of Schultzville before it enters the borough of Bally. Upon entering Bally, the road becomes Main Street and passes several homes along with a few businesses. PA 100 leaves Bally for Washington Township again and becomes unnamed, running through farmland with some woods and homes. Upon reaching the community of Clayton, the route crosses into Hereford Township and becomes Chestnut Street, continuing through agricultural areas and crossing Perkiomen Creek before coming to an intersection with PA 29 in the community of Hereford. At this point, PA 29 turns north for a concurrency with PA 100, and the two routes head north into woodland with some fields and residences.\n\nPA 29/PA 100 crosses into Upper Milford Township in Lehigh County, which is in the Lehigh Valley, curving northeast through wooded areas with some farmland and development in the South Mountain range. The road turns north near the community of Old Zionsville before it passes through the residential community of Shimerville. PA 100 splits from PA 29 by turning northwest onto North Kings Highway, with PA 100 Truck heading north along PA 29. The route begins a winding path to the northwest as it descends a hill through a mix of farms and trees. The road heads northwest into the borough of Macungie and becomes Main Street, a three lane road with a center left-turn lane that passes several homes. PA 100 Truck rejoins at the Chestnut Street intersection and PA 100 continues past more residences and businesses in the borough. The route crosses Norfolk Southern's Reading Line at-grade and Swabia Creek, passing more commercial establishments as it enters Lower Macungie Township and becomes an unnamed road. The road heads west through a mix of farmland and residential and commercial development, curving to the northwest and losing the center turn lane. PA 100 crosses Little Lehigh Creek and Norfolk Southern's C&F Secondary at-grade before it intersects Spring Creek Road, at which point it becomes a two-lane divided expressway that bypasses Trexlertown to the west. The route continues northwest near farmland and residential subdivisions into Upper Macungie Township and intersects Weilers Road, which heads north to Hamilton Boulevard. A short distance later, PA 100 meets US 222 at a partial interchange, where northbound US 222 merges with northbound PA 100 and southbound US 222 splits from southbound PA 100. All other connections between PA 100 and US 222 are provided by Weilers Road and Hamilton Boulevard.\n\nUS 222 and PA 100 continue north concurrent as a four-lane divided expressway called the Frederick J. Jaindl, Jr. Memorial Highway, passing near homes and intersecting Grim Road/Cetronia Road at-grade. The road curves northeast and runs between warehouses to the northwest and housing developments to the southeast. PA 100 splits from US 222 at a diamond interchange, at which point PA 100 continues north and Trexlertown Road heads south. The route runs north-northwest through a mix of farm fields and an industrial/warehouse area as an unnamed four-lane divided highway. The road passes businesses and crosses Schantz Road and a Norfolk Southern railroad branch at-grade before reaching a cloverleaf interchange with I-78/US 22. Past this, PA 100 heads into the community of Fogelsville and crosses Main Street/Tilghman Street. The route heads through commercial areas and narrows to a two-lane undivided road, entering wooded areas and turning to the northwest. The road enters Lowhill Township and runs through a mix of farmland and woodland with some development, passing through the community of Claussville. PA 100 winds northwest through more rural areas, running through Lyon Valley. The road heads north into more wooded areas and crosses the Jordan Creek in the community of Lowhill. The route runs alongside the creek and winds northwest into Heidelberg Township. PA 100 continues north to its northern terminus at a T-intersection with PA 309 in the community of Pleasant Corners.\n\nWhen Pennsylvania first legislated routes in 1911, what would become PA 100 was legislated as Legislative Route 282 between the Delaware border and Lenape, Legislative Route 134 between Lenape and West Chester, Legislative Route 147 between West Chester and Pottstown, Legislative Route 284 between Pottstown and Hereford, and Legislative Route 158 between Hereford and Shimerville. At this time, the road was paved between Boyertown and north of Bally. By 1926, the entire length of the road between Chadds Ford and north of Hereford was paved. PA 62 was designated in 1927 to run from the Delaware border south of Chadds Ford north to US 309/PA 312 in Allentown. The route followed the Brandywine Creek through Chadds Ford to Lenape, where it ran concurrent with PA 52 to West Chester. From here, PA 62 headed north along Pottstown Pike to Pottstown, where it passed through the borough on Hanover Street. The route continued north on Farmington Avenue to Boyertown and ran through Bechtelsville and Barto on its way to Bally. PA 62 ran north along present-day PA 100 to Shimerville, where it continued to Allentown. A northern section of PA 62 was designated between PA 15 in Wilkes-Barre and US 106/PA 7 (now US 6) in Tunkhannock. A year later, PA 62 was realigned at Shimerville to head north through Macungie, Trexlertown, and Fogelsville to its new northern terminus at an intersection with PA 29 (now PA 309) in Pleasant Corners. PA 29 replaced the PA 62 designation between Shimerville and Allentown. By this time, the route was paved from north of Bally to Macungie. The northern section of PA 62 was decommissioned in 1928 and replaced with PA 92 (now PA 309 south of Bowman Creek and PA 29 north of Bowman Creek). By 1930, the route was paved between the Delaware border and Chadds Ford and between Macungie and Fogelsville. At this time, the road was under construction from Fogelsville to north of Claussville.\nPA 62 was renumbered to PA 100 on June 1, 1932 in order to avoid conflicting with US 62, which was designated in the northwestern part of the state. The road was paved between Fogelsville and Pleasant Corners during the 1930s. At the Delaware border, PA 100 connected to DE 100, which was designated in 1938. By 1953, PA 100 was realigned to its current straight alignment between south of Bechtelsville and Bally, bypassing Bechtelsville and Barto to the east. The former alignment is now known as Main Street and Old Route 100.\n\nIn 1954, the current alignment between Hanover Street in North Coventry Township and Farmington Avenue in Upper Pottsgrove Township was built, with interchanges at PA 83 (now PA 724) and US 422 (High Street). At this time, PA 100 still continued through Pottstown on Hanover Street and Farmington Avenue. In the 1950s, a realigned US 309 replaced the PA 100 designation between US 22 in Fogelsville and Pleasant Corners. By 1959, PA 100 was widened into a divided highway between Boot Road and US 30 (now US 30 Bus.) in Exton. In 1964, the current divided highway alignment of PA 100 was built between Farmington Avenue in Upper Pottsgrove Township and New Berlinville, which included interchanges at Farmington Avenue, PA 73, and Montgomery Avenue. PA 100 was rerouted to the new alignment between Hanover Street in North Coventry Township and New Berlinville; the former alignment is now Hanover Street, Farmington Avenue, PA 562, and Reading Avenue.\n\nThe northern terminus of PA 100 was extended back to Pleasant Corners at PA 309 in the 1960s, replacing the former US 309 designation between Fogelsville and Pleasant Corners. In the 1960s, the Pennsylvania Department of Highways had plans for an expressway along the PA 100 corridor in Chester County that would connect to US 202 in West Chester. In 1968, a freeway was built connecting PA 100 south of Exton to US 202 north of West Chester. In the 1970s, PA 100 was widened into a divided highway between Exton and Lionville. The freeway connecting US 202 and PA 100 became known as SR 2023 when the Location Referencing System was established in 1987.\nIn 2003, the southern terminus of PA 100 was moved from the Delaware border to its current location at US 202, being rerouted to follow the freeway connecting US 202 to Exton. PA 100 was truncated in order to reduce truck traffic along rural roads and on the streets through West Chester. Plans to remove the PA 100 designation along this stretch date back to 1990 when the municipalities along the route, with support from the West Chester Regional Planning Commission, passed resolutions to remove the designation. The plan was approved by the Chester County Planning Commission in 1999 and was approved by PennDOT in 2002. The truncation of the route caused confusion to motorists and affected businesses along the route. Chadds Ford Township placed \"Old Route 100\" signs along the former alignment to reduce motorist confusion. The former route of PA 100 between the Delaware border and Exton was designated SR 3100 in Chester County and SR 3101 in Delaware County, which follows Chadds Ford Road, Creek Road, PA 52, US 322 Bus., North High Street, and Pottstown Pike. Delaware continues to designate DE 100 starting at the state line and continuing south to its terminus at DE 4 south of Elsmere.\n\nIn 2002, construction began on a bypass route for PA 100 and US 222 around Trexlertown. On September 29, 2005, PA 100 was rerouted to bypass the community to the west along the four-lane divided Trexlertown Bypass. The former alignment through Trexlertown became known as Trexlertown Road, which is designated SR 6100. US 222 was moved onto the bypass on September 28, 2007 following the extension of the bypass east to allow US 222 to bypass the community. The bypass cost $144 million to build. In 1988, plans were made to bypass the section of PA 100 through Eagle which was narrow and suffered from traffic congestion. A bypass to the east of the community was proposed as opposed to adding turn lanes along the existing route as the latter would have required the demolition of several buildings. The Eagle Bypass was delayed for years by funding issues. Construction on the Eagle Bypass was slated to begin in 2003. The bypass was completed between Byers Road and PA 100 north of Eagle in fall 2005. The remainder of the bypass south to PA 100 south of Eagle was completed on August 19, 2009. The bypass was called Graphite Mine Road and is designated as SR 1055 from PA 100 south of Eagle north to Byers Road and is a township road from Byers Road north to PA 100 north of Eagle. PA 100 continues to follow Pottstown Pike through the center of Eagle.\n\nPennsylvania Route 100 Truck is a truck bypass of a winding portion of PA 100 between the north end of the PA 29 concurrency and Macungie on which trucks with trailers over 45 feet are not allowed. The route heads north on PA 29 before heading west along Buckeye Road and Chestnut Street concurrent with PA 29 Truck.\n"}
{"id": "2103091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103091", "title": "Philip Myers's akodont", "text": "Philip Myers's akodont\n\nPhilip Myers's akodont (\"Akodon philipmyersi\") is a recently described species of grass mouse from Misiones Province, Argentina. Like other grass mice, A. philipmyersi is a small, non-descript, greyish-brown mouse with prominent ears. The species was recognized as distinct from other grass mice on the basis of unique features of karyology, genetic sequence, cranial measurements, and general morphology.\n\nThe specific epithet for this animal, \"philipmyersi\", is named after renowned mammalogist Philip Myers of the University of Michigan Museum of Zoology and major contributor to the Animal Diversity Web. Philip Myers has made major contributions in determining the relationships among members of the genus \"Akodon\".\n\n\"A. philipmyersi\" is described as having a small body size, tail, and limbs relative to other members of the genus. The animals have a karyotype of (2n=36, FN=42). The species differs from its only sympatric relative, \"A. montensis\", by 11.3-11.4% sequence divergence at the cytochrome b gene. \"A. montensis\" can also be distinguished by its 2n=24 chromosome number and by its preference for forest instead of grassland habitat.\n\n\"A. philipmyersi\" seems to prefer grassland areas with tall vegetation. Remains of the animals have also been found in owl pellets.\n\nPardiñas et al. (2005) suggest that the closest relative to \"A. philipmyersi\" is \"A. lindberghi\", but this is only weakly supported statistically. Morphometric analyses and a shared number of chromosomes (n=36), also point to a similarity between these two species. The two are distinct both morphometrically and genetically (cytochrome b divergence = 10.1%).\n\n"}
{"id": "2103107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103107", "title": "Alexander Arutiunian", "text": "Alexander Arutiunian\n\nAlexander Grigori Arutiunian (), also known as Arutunian, Arutyunyan, Arutjunjan, Harutyunian or Harutiunian (23 September 1920 – 28 March 2012), was a Soviet and Armenian composer and pianist, widely known for his 1950 trumpet concerto. A professor at Yerevan State Conservatory, he was recognized with many awards for his work, including the Stalin Prize in 1949 and People's Artist of the USSR in 1970, as well as numerous honors from his homeland of Armenia.\n\nArutiunian was born in Yerevan, Armenia, in the family of Grigor and Eleonora Arutiunian. His father was a military serviceman. In 1927, Arutiunian became a member of the Yerevan State Conservatory’s children group, then, at age 14, he was admitted to the Conservatory to the studios of Olga Babasyan (piano), and Sergei Barkhudaryan and Vardges Talyan (composition). He graduated from the Music Conservatory of Yerevan on the eve of World War II. After the war he moved to Moscow, where between 1946 and 1948 he participated in the workshops of House of Armenian Culture, studied composition with Genrikh Litinsky. After graduation he returned to Yerevan to teach at the local Conservatory and in 1954 he was appointed artistic director of the Armenian State Philharmony. He was also a member of the Board of the USSR Composers' Union, as well as of the Armenian SSR Composers’ Union.\n\nIn 1949, Arutiunian was awarded the Stalin Prize for his cantata \"Motherland\", a graduation piece he wrote as a student at the Moscow Conservatory. The USSR Radio Choir and Orchestra premiered this work in November 1948.\n\nIn 1949, Arutiunian composed the \"Festive Overture\" that was first performed in the Big Hall of the Leningrad Philharmonic in November 1949, with Evgeny Mravinsky conducting. During the Moscow Music Congress Aram Khachaturian considered him as a promising Soviet composer. He continued to win acclaim at home and abroad for his works, many of which are quickened by the folk traditions of Armenian music. Other works of that kind include \"The tale of Armenian people\" (1960), \"Ode to Lenin\" (1967) and \"Hymn to the brotherhood\" (1970).\n\nSome of Arutiunian's works for wind instruments include his 1950 concerto for trumpet, the concerto for tuba, and the brass quintet \"Armenian Scenes\". In 1988, inspired by the Spitak earthquake, Arutiunian composed his Concerto for Violin and String Orchestra, \"Armenia-88\" (dedicated to Ruben Aharonyan). The premiere took place in Yerevan in 1989.\n\nIn September 2010 Arutiunian's 90th birthday was celebrated by a series of concerts.\n\nArutiunian's \"Trumpet Concerto\" consists of the following movements:\n\nThe melodic and rhythmic characteristics of Armenian folk music are a strong influence in Arutiunian's work. As a composer, he expressed his nationality by incorporating the flavor of ashughner (folk minstrel) improvisations. At the time the concerto was written, his compositional style was similar to Khachaturian's. However, in the 1960s he tended towards classical forms and clearer tonality.\n\nArutiunian's trumpet concerto was his sixth major composition, written in 1950. Arutiunian originally intended to write it in 1943 for a student of Tabakov, Zsolak Vartasarian, who was the principal trumpet in the Armenian Philharmonic Orchestra. However, Vartasarian died in the war and the concerto was not completed until 1950, so Aykaz Messlayan was the first performer of the Concerto and Timofei Dokschitzer was the first to record this concerto.\n\nThe concerto's introduction to the United States is solely due to Dokschitzer, a leading Soviet Russian trumpeter.\n\nIn 1950, Arutiunian married Irina (Tamara) Odenova. Their marriage produced two children, a daughter, Narine (born 1951), who is a pianist and lawyer; and a son, Suren (born 1953), who is an artist-designer. His extended family includes 3 granddaughters and a grandson. He died, aged 91, in his home city of Yerevan. Arutiunian is buried at the Komitas Pantheon which is located in the city center of Yerevan.\n\n\nImportant works include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103113", "title": "Hannah Pingree", "text": "Hannah Pingree\n\nHannah M. Pingree (born October 18, 1976) is a Democratic politician from the U.S. state of Maine and daughter of Maine politician Chellie Pingree. She served four terms in the State Legislature, including one as Speaker of the House, before being forced to leave office by state term limits. In the Legislature she represented 10 islands and coastal towns. She was the second woman to serve as Speaker of the House in Maine.\n\nPingree grew up on the island of North Haven, where her father Charlie Pingree is a boat-builder. She graduated from North Haven Community School and Brown University. She was a 1998-1999 Fellow for Leadership in Public Affairs for the Coro Foundation in New York City.\n\nPrior to serving in the Legislature, she was a fundraiser for the unsuccessful United States Senate campaign of her mother Chellie Pingree, who now represents Maine's 1st congressional district in the United States House of Representatives. She also worked for two years in New York City as the political director and \"Election 2000\" producer for iVillage.com, the largest political internet site for women.\n\nIn her third term, Pingree became the third woman in Maine history to serve as House Majority Leader and the youngest woman ever to hold the position. She is the second youngest person to hold the position in state history. After leaving the legislature, Pingree now manages the family inn and restaurant, Nebo Lodge, and serves on the North Haven Community School Board.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103116", "title": "Nooksack Falls", "text": "Nooksack Falls\n\nNooksack Falls is a waterfall along the North Fork of the Nooksack River in Whatcom County, Washington. The water flows through a narrow valley and drops freely 88 feet into a deep rocky river canyon. The falls are viewable from the forested cover near the cliffs edge. The falls are a short 2/3 of a mile drive off the Mount Baker Highway, Washington State Highway 542. The falls were featured in the hunting scene of the movie \"The Deer Hunter\".\n\nThroughout the late 19th century, significant mineral discoveries were made in eastern Whatcom County and in particular the Nooksack Falls region. The richest and most significant strike was the Lone Jack Claim of 1897. Before the mine closed in 1924, approximately $500,000 worth of gold was excavated. Due to the success of the Lone Jack Claim, the area became known as the Mount Baker Mining District and produced over 5,000 claims between 1890 and 1937. One of the claims, known as the Great Excelsior Mine, was located ten miles southwest of the Lone Jack Mine and only one mile from the Nooksack Falls Powerplant. In 1902, the Excelsior Claim erected a 20-stamp mill to crush the ore and a water powered turbine provided the power. In 1914, when the Excelsior Mill was rebuilt, a power line was extended from the Nooksack Falls plant to provide electricity to the mill.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103119", "title": "Mazo de la Roche", "text": "Mazo de la Roche\n\nMazo de la Roche (January 15, 1879 – July 12, 1961), born Maisie Louise Roche in Newmarket, Ontario, Canada, was the author of the Jalna novels, one of the most popular series of books of her time.\n\nDe la Roche was the only child of William Roche, a salesman, and Alberta (Lundy) Roche, who was a great-great-niece of David Willson, founder of the Children of Peace, through the latter's elder half-brother Hugh L. Willson. On her father's side of the family, her uncle Francis signed himself as \"Francis J. de la Roche\", claiming a descendancy from Sir Richard de la Roche (1199-1283) of Strongbow's army; Mazo eventually adopted the \"de la Roche\" surname as her own as well.\n\nDe la Roche was born in Newmarket, Ontario, north of Toronto. The family moved frequently throughout Southern Ontario during her childhood because of her mother's ill health and her father's many jobs. She lived successively in Newmarket (1879–85), at least two separate addresses in Toronto (1885–88), several dwellings in Orillia (1888–91), Galt (1891-92), Orillia (again, 1892–94) and Toronto (again, 1894-1900). She was a lonely child who became an avid reader and developed her own fictional world, \"The Play,\" in which she created imaginary scenes and characters. One of the family's moves meant some years on a farm owned by a wealthy man who farmed as a hobby. There de la Roche began to develop her fictional world of rural aristocracy that would—years later—become Jalna.\n\nWhen de la Roche was seven, her parents adopted her orphaned eight-year-old cousin Caroline Clement, who joined in Mazo's fantasy world game and would become her lifelong companion. De la Roche wrote her first short story at age 9. She attended high school at Jameson Collegiate (now Parkdale Collegiate Institute) in west end Toronto, and later studied at the Metropolitan School of Music, the University of Toronto, and the Ontario School of Art, all in Toronto.\n\nDe la Roche, then 23, had her first story published in 1902 in \"Munsey's Magazine\", but very shortly thereafter (in February 1903) she suffered a mental breakdown. For the next several years, she suffered from depression and insomnia, and did not write.\n\nIn 1905, Roche and Caroline moved with Mazo's parents to Acton, Ontario to operate the Acton House hotel. She was known locally as \"Maisie Roach\", and lived there until 1908, selling one of her stories while she was there. Her novel \"Delight\" was based on her time there, and Acton's geography figures notably in \"Possession\". A few years later in 1911, by now in her early thirties, de la Roche moved with Caroline and the Roches to Sovereign House in Bronte, Ontario, to try life as farm owners. By now, de la Roche had resumed writing and was placing stories in American magazines on an occasional basis.\n\nWilliam Roche, Mazo's father, died in 1915 of cirrhosis of the liver brought on by alcoholism. de la Roche, her mother Alberta and Caroline moved back to Toronto.\n\nDe la Roche continued to write, but at this juncture Caroline Clement was the main breadwinner of the household, working as a civil service clerk. (She would eventually rise to become the province of Ontario's chief statistician.) During the summers, Clement lived in a Toronto boarding house while de la Roche and her mother would stay in a cottage near Lake Simcoe, several hours north of the city.\n\nAlberta Roche died in 1920. After this, de la Roche's writing career began in earnest, and Clement and de la Roche were never again separated for any significant length of time. During most of the 1920s, they split their time between Toronto and a cottage they had built in Clarkson, Ontario.\n\nHer first published book, \"Explorers of the Dawn\", appeared in 1922, and was a fix-up of some previously published sketches, vignettes and stories rewritten to work within an overarching narrative framework. Her first two proper novels, \"Possession\" (1923) and \"Delight\" (1926), were romantic novels which were mild successes, but nevertheless earned her little in income or recognition. de la Roche also wrote plays and short stories through this period.\n\nHer third novel, \"Jalna\", was submitted to the American magazine \"Atlantic Monthly\", winning a $10,000 award. Its victory and subsequent publication in 1927 brought de la Roche fame and fortune at the age of 48.\n\n\"Jalna\" was an immediate sensation, with the public demanding sequels and prequels for the rest of de la Roche's life. Though she would continue to write other works, the series known as the \"Jalna series\" or the \"Whiteoak Chronicles\" would dominate the rest of her writing career. The series tells the story of one hundred years of the Whiteoak family covering from 1854 to 1954. The 16 \"Jalna\" novels were not written in sequential order, however, and each can be read as an independent story.\n\nThere are similarities and differences in the experiences of the Whiteoak family and that of de la Roche. While the lives and successes of the Whiteoaks rise and fall, there remained for them the steadiness of the family manor, known as Jalna. de la Roche's family endured the illness of her mother, the perpetual job searches of her father, and the adoption of her orphaned cousin while being moved 17 times. Several critics believe that Finch Whiteoak who majors in \"Finch's Fortune\" (1932) is a reflection of de la Roche herself. He was a somewhat tortured concert pianist with overtones of gayness. The names of many of the characters were taken from gravestones in a Newmarket, Ontario cemetery.\n\nThe sudden bout of fame was not an immediate blessing for de la Roche, as the stress of the attendant publicity caused her to experience another breakdown in early 1928. She eventually recovered, and began writing a sequel to \"Jalna\", which was published in 1929.\n\nThe income from \"Jalna\" and its sequels allowed de la Roche to become the main breadwinner of the household, after years of having been supported by Clement. The two would make an extended trip to Europe beginning in 1929, living first in Italy, then in the United Kingdom. In 1931 they adopted the two orphaned children of friends of theirs. This was extremely unusual for the time, as adoptions by single women were technically not allowed in the UK during this era; the machinations by which de la Roche and Clement were able to do this are unknown.\n\nThe family returned to Toronto for a time in 1934-35, heading back to England again in 1936 before returning to Toronto for good in 1939. During this era, de la Roche reliably published at least one book a year, sometimes more. However, although her early work had received positive critical notices, critical reaction to her newer works was often decidedly cool, in both North America and Europe. Nevertheless, the \"Jalna\" books were still strong sellers, with a wide and appreciative readership.\n\nDe la Roche's productivity slowed somewhat once she was in her sixties and seventies. Partly due to arthritis in her hands, much of her later work was dictated to Clement. She still published regularly right up to her death, with her final novel \"Morning at Jalna\" appearing in 1960 when she was 81.\n\nOverall, de la Roche and Caroline Clement lived a fairly reclusive life, and their relationship was not discussed widely in the press. In her infrequent interviews, de la Roche often expressed a need for privacy. Though there has been much speculation -- without evidence -- in recent years as to the exact nature of the relationship between de la Roche and Clement, de la Roche's autobiography makes no mention of them being anything other than close companions.\n\nNot long after de la Roche's death in 1961, in accordance with her wishes Clement burned almost all of the author's personal diaries. Clement died in 1972.\n\nMost recently, de la Roche was the subject of a Red Queen Productions and National Film Board of Canada co-production, \"The Mystery of Mazo de la Roche\", which premiered on March 17, 2012 at the Festival international du film sur l'art in Montreal, then had its Toronto Premiere at Hot Docs April 29/12. The film is directed by Maya Gallus, produced by Justine Pimlott and Anita Lee, and combines archival material with dramatic reenactments featuring Severn Thompson as Mazo de la Roche. The film \"lend(s) credence to the theory that its subject was a closeted lesbian\", although several people in the film who knew de la Roche and Clement, including their adopted daughter Esmée, state on-camera that they believe the relationship between the two was close but ultimately platonic.\n\nDe la Roche is buried near the grave of Stephen Leacock at St. George's Anglican Church, at Sibbald Point, near Sutton, Ontario. Later, Caroline Clement was buried alongside her.\n\nThe Jalna series has sold more than eleven million copies in 193 English and 92 foreign editions. In 1935, the film \"Jalna\", based on the novel, was released by RKO Radio Pictures and, in 1972, a CBC television series was produced based on the series.\n\nBenares in Clarkson, Ontario is believed to be the inspiration for Jalna (Benares and Jalna are in fact both names of Indian cities) and is now maintained by the Museums of Mississauga. A nearby park is named \"Whiteoaks\" in honour of the series, as is a nearby elementary school. Streets in the area also bear names such as \"Mazo Crescent,\" \"Jalna Avenue,\" \"Roche Court,\" and \"Whiteoaks Avenue.\"\n\nHer house at 3590 Bayview Avenue in Toronto, Ontario, bought by The Zoroastrian Society of Ontario in 1975, serves as its community centre (as of May 2019). It is listed as a City of Toronto Heritage Property.\n\nIn the 1970s, a land developer in London, Ontario used the characters from de la Roche's Jalna series to name streets for a new subdivision named \"White Oaks\". Streetnames used from the Jalna series include: Jalna Boulevard, Ernest Avenue, Renny Crescent, Finch Crescent, Nicholas Crescent, Alayne Crescent, Archer Crescent, Piers Crescent, Meg Drive.\n\nIn 1990, a French-immersion public school in de la Roche's birthplace of Newmarket, Ontario was named in her honour.\n\nResponding to an enquiry on the pronunciation of her name, her secretary told \"The Literary Digest\": \"Her Christian name is pronounced \"may'zo\", and Roche is pronounced \"rosh\", to rhyme with \"Foch\".\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103123", "title": "Edgar Schoen", "text": "Edgar Schoen\n\nEdgar J. Schoen (Brooklyn, NY, August 10, 1925 – August 23, 2016) was an American physician who worked as a pediatric endocrinologist at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Oakland, California until 2003, and Clinical Professor in Pediatrics at the University of California, San Francisco until 2004. He held the position of Chair of the 1988 American Academy of Pediatrics Task Force on Circumcision.\n\nSchoen held positions at Children's Hospital of the East Bay in Oakland, CA, and the University of California Medical Center in San Francisco, CA and was Board-certified in Pediatrics and Pediatric Endocrinology. He practiced Pediatrics and Pediatric Endocrinology in Oakland, CA for 46 years. Schoen was Chief of Pediatrics at Kaiser Permanente in Oakland for 24 years.\n\nSchoen maintained Medicirc.org, an online resource in which he discussed what he perceived as the benefits of circumcision. It went offline at the end of 2012. Interviewed in the \"Eastbay Express\" (2000), he stated, \"Circumcision is one of the best health insurance policies you can give a son. A circumcised boy has a lifetime advantage over an uncircumcised one.\"\n\nSchoen has written about circumcision in the books \"Ed Schoen, MD on Circumcision\" () and \"Circumcision, Sex, God, and Science: Modern Health Benefits of an Ancient Ritual\" () as well as poetry on the topic in the \"American Journal of Diseases in Children\".\n\nIn a \"Boston Globe\" article, Schoen said, concerning the AAP's decision to not advocate circumcision, \"It's highly biased\". The 1989 report he oversaw stated that circumcision reduced the risks of urinary tract infections and sexually transmitted diseases.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103136", "title": "Irish Hospitality, or, Virtue Rewarded", "text": "Irish Hospitality, or, Virtue Rewarded\n\nIrish Hospitality, or, Virtue Rewarded is one of the lesser-known works of the inconspicuous playwright Charles Shadwell, son of the far more renowned playwright and poet laureate Thomas Shadwell. It was published in his \"Five New Plays\" in 1720, and it is not known if it was ever acted.\n\nThere are no extremes of virtue or vice in this play, which rather celebrates the 18th-century concept of \"good nature\", personified by the middle-aged squire Sir Patrick Worthy. Spirited young women are commended and the Irish squirarchy's lumpish obsession with creature comforts is upbraided. Sir Patrick arranges suitable marriages for his entire family, without regard to money, and the high point of the action is his benevolent tricking of his unprincipled son Charles into making an honest woman out of a serving-girl he (Charles) has debauched.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103140", "title": "Public value", "text": "Public value\n\nPublic value describe the value that an organization contributes to society. The term was originally coined by Harvard professor Mark H. Moore who saw it as the equivalent of shareholder value in public management. Public value is supposed to provide managers with a notion of how entrepreneurial activity can contribute to the common good. Nowadays, public value is no longer limited to the public sector, but is used by all types of organization, including non-governmental organizations and private sector firms. Therefore, the public value researcher Timo Meynhardt from the University of St. Gallen and HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management uses the term to generally raise the question about organizations' contribution to the common good. He believes that current management concepts, such as shareholder value, stakeholder value, customer value, sustainability or corporate social responsibility, should legitimize themselves in regard to their impact on the common good.\n\nIn his (social-)psychological-based concept, public value emerges for individuals from the experiences made in social structures and relationships. Hence, it can be seen as a prerequisite and a resource for successful living.\n\n\"Public values are those providing normative consensus about (1) the rights, benefits, and prerogatives to which citizens should (and should not) be entitled; (2) the obligations of citizens to society, the state and one another; and (3) the principles on which governments and policies should be based.\" Bozeman, 2007\n\n\"Public value is value for the public. Value for the public is a result of evaluations about how basic needs of individuals, groups and the society as a whole are influenced in relationships involving the public. Public value then is also value from the public, i.e., “drawn” from the experience of the public. The public is an indispensable operational fiction of society. Any impact on shared experience about the quality of the relationship between the individual and society can be described as public value creation. Public value creation is situated in relationships between the individual and society, founded in individuals, constituted by subjective evaluations against basic needs, activated by and realized in emotional-motivational states, and produced and reproduced in experience-intense practices.\" Meynhardt, 2009\n\n\"The definition that remains equates managerial success in the public sector with initiating and reshaping public sector enterprises in ways that increase their value to the public in both the short and the long run.\" Moore, 1995\n\n\"Public Value (or Public Value Capital) then is the combined view of the public about what they regard as valuable.\" Talbot, 2006\n\nThe research program on public value was kicked off by Professor Mark H. Moore of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, who published a book on the subject, \"Creating Public Value. Strategic Management in Government\", in 1995. In this sense, public value can be instituted as an organising principle in a public sector organisation, providing a focus in the context of which individual employees are free to pursue and propose new ideas about how to improve the working of the organisation, in terms of efficiency or services. Public organisations seeking to use public value as a principle need to create a corporate culture in which the pursuit of public values by employees is rewarded just as pursuing shareholder value is rewarded in private corporations. \n\nThe concept has been taken up initially by academics, think tanks and NGOs, and later by a number of public sector organisations in the United Kingdom and other countries.\n\nIn 2004 it was used by the BBC as the cornerstone of its manifesto for the renewal of its charter.\n\nIn 2006 Accenture launched the Institute for Public Service Value (IPSV), to explore how public value is created in government organizations. Greg Parston, co-founder and former Chief Executive of the Office for Public Management, and a collaborator with Professor Moore, was appointed Director. Among many other studies, IPSV conducted the Global Cities Forum in 2007-2009, which facilitated citizens' deliberations on their experiences and expectations of public value in 17 cities around the world. \n\nIn 2006, the Center for Technology in Government (CTG) in partnership with SAP AG, conducted research on the topic of public value in the context of governments' investments in information technology (IT). The results of this research found that governments' ability to realize the full value of IT investments is not completely measurable in terms of financial results. More specifically, the five U.S. and international governments studied, looked for the full value of government IT investments in both the internal value to government operations and the broader political and social returns to the public at large.\n\nFrom this point of view, there are two sources of public value: \nIn November 2006, UK-based The Work Foundation published a report on their project, titled \"Deliberative democracy and the role of public managers\"\",\" followed in October 2008 by \"Public Value: The Next Steps in Public Service Reform\" \n\nThe German Federal Employment Agency uses the public value concept to better understand its contribution to society that goes beyond simple task fulfillment and make it a yardstick for management decisions. An empirical study has shown that a particular value of this organization is seen in its contribution to social peace in Germany.\n\nPublic value is also taken up by private sector companies that want to maintain a license to operate and understand what implications new strategies and projects might have in terms of public value creation/ destruction. Such analyses can be done using a Public Value Scorecard as proposed by Timo Meynhardt and Peter Gomez. Public value acknowledges that established business paradigms such as customer value or stakeholder value risk overemphasizing certain aspects of business' value contribution to society at the expense of other important dimensions. It pledges for a redefinition of the entire notion of value creation as it takes utilitarian and hedonistic as well as political and moral aspects of value creation into account.\n\nA number of firms use public value to obtain management information helping to take strategic decisions. Examples include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103142", "title": "Ardrossan, Alberta", "text": "Ardrossan, Alberta\n\nArdrossan is a hamlet in Alberta, Canada, within Strathcona County. It is located on Highway 824, approximately east of Sherwood Park.\n\nThe community takes its name from Ardrossan, in Scotland.\n\nArdrossan is located directly to the east of Sherwood Park, and is just south of the Yellowhead Highway on Range Road 222. It can also be accessed by Township Road 530 coming out of Sherwood Park.\n\nThere are three schools in the hamlet. Ardrossan Elementary School, and Ardrossan Junior Senior High School, both operated by Elk Island Public Schools, and Holy Redeemer Catholic School, operated by Elk Island Catholic Schools. The junior/senior high school also houses the Ardrossan Community Theatre and the sports fields surrounding the schools were recently redeveloped with new baseball diamonds, soccer fields, football fields and a tennis court.\n\nThe population of Ardrossan according to Strathcona County's 2015 municipal census is 412.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103146", "title": "Liaoyuan", "text": "Liaoyuan\n\nLiaoyuan () is a prefecture-level city in Jilin province, People's Republic of China. It is bounded on the west and south by Tieling of Liaoning province, west and north by Siping, and east by Tonghua and Jilin City. Liaoyuan lies some south of Changchun, the provincial capital. Covering an area of , Liaoyuan is the smallest among the prefecture-level divisions of Jilin. Liaoyuan has a total population of 1,176,645 in the prefecture, while the urban area has a population of 462,233.\n\nLiaoyuan was an imperial hunting ground during the Qing dynasty, going by the name Shengjing Paddock (). Ordinary citizens were prohibited from entering this region until late 1800s, when waves of immigrants from Hebei, Shandong and Henan began to populate Manchuria (see Chuang Guandong). In 1902, Qing government established Xi'an County () in this region, which became today's Xi'an District.\n\nThe discovery of coal underground shortly afterwards brought prosperity to the city. Between 1931 and 1945, Xi'an was an important coal-mining city in Manchukuo and also the place where American Army General Jonathan M. Wainwright was held as a prisoner. During the Chinese Civil War after World War II, Xi'an was a focal point of the intense fighting between the Communist and Nationalist forces until the summer of 1947 when it was permanently captured by the Communist force. The city was renamed Liaoyuan (literally the source of the East Liao River) in 1952 as the former name conflicted with that of the much larger city of Xi'an in Shaanxi province. As a county-level city, Liaoyuan was under Siping Prefecture's jurisdiction till 1983, when it became a prefecture-level city, administering two districts and two counties.\n\nLiaoyuan has a temperate semi-humid monsoon climate. The average annual sunshine totals 2,580 hours, while the average annual precipitation is just above . The average temperature is . Liaoyuan is replete with water resources. There are 56 rivers and streams running through the city, including tributes of Liao River and Songhua River. In addition, Liaoyuan is also rich in timber and mineral resources. Mineral resources such as limestone, marble, coal, silica, and wollastonite are abundant. Forests cover 42% of the city's lands.\n\nCoal mining in Liaoyuan started in late Qing dynasty and continued to be the most important industry for more than 100 years. During the Japanese occupation from 1931 to 1945, Liaoyuan was the second largest coal-mining center of Manchukuo, preceded only by Fushun. This city continued to produce approximately 3 million tons of coal every year till the mid 1990s, when the exhaustion of coal resource brought the economy of this city to a standstill. The city succeeded in transforming its economic structure from a mining oriented one to a light manufacturing oriented one. At present, the city is the largest cotton-sock manufacturing center in China. Furthermore, the aluminum shell of Apple Macbook Pro is also manufactured in this city. Liaoyuan has a GDP of RMB 50 billion in 2011, rising 15.6% year on year.\n\nThe Changchun-Liaoyuan Expressway and the Siping-Meihekou Railway run through the city. Changchun Airport is within one and a half-hour's drive from Liaoyuan.\n\nGuandong deer meat is one of the popular dishes among local people since Liaoyuan has a long history of raising deer.\n\n\nOn December 16, 2005, a fire in Liaoyuan Central Hospital killed at least 39 people, 33 of whom were patients. The cause of the fire was wire-aging, as reported by local media.(BBC)\n\nThe 15,000-capacity Liaoyuan Stadium is the largest stadium in the city. It opened in 2006 and it is used mostly for association football matches. The stadium also has an athletics track.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103169", "title": "Red Scorpion", "text": "Red Scorpion\n\nRed Scorpion is a 1988 American action film starring Dolph Lundgren and directed by Joseph Zito. The film was released in the United States on April 21, 1989.\n\nLieutenant Nikolai Petrovitch Rachenko, a Soviet Spetsnaz operative is sent to an African country in which Soviet, Czechoslovakian and Cuban forces are helping the government fight an anti-communist rebel movement. He is tasked with the mission to assassinate the rebel leader. Rachenko infiltrates the rebel movement and get within striking distance of his target, he stirs up trouble in the local bar and gets arrested for disorderly conduct. He is put in the same cell as a captured resistance commander and gains his trust in facilitating the escape. Upon finally reaching the rebel encampment, he is met with distrust by the rebels. During the night, he attempts to assassinate his target, but the distrustful rebels anticipate his actions.\n\nDisgraced and tortured by his commanding officers for failing his mission, he breaks out of the interrogation chamber and escapes to the desert, later to be found by native Bushmen. He soon learns about them and their culture, and after he receives a ceremonial burn scar in the form of a scorpion (hence the title), he joins the rebels and leads an attack against the Soviet camp after a previous attack on the peaceful bushmen. Nikolai obtains an AO-63 assault rifle from the armory, confronts his corrupt officers and hunts down General Oleg Vortek, who attempts to escape in a Mil-24 Hind, only to be shot down after takeoff. Nikolai defeats and kills Vortek, as the rebels finally defeat the Soviet forces who were assisting the government.\n\n\nAfter being denied the right to film in Swaziland and a search for other locations, the film was made in Namibia (then South-West Africa). Warner Bros., who had a negative pickup deal to release the picture, pulled out for the breach of their contract with the production. Artists and Athletes Against Apartheid then condemned the production for breaking the international boycott against South Africa. The film allegedly received help from the South African government as part of its propaganda efforts to undermine international sympathy for the African National Congress (see International Freedom Foundation).\n\nWith all the delays and productions issues, the film went over budget by 8-10 million dollars (approximately twice the initial amount).\n\nProducer Jack Abramoff later claimed that he did not intend the film to contain so much violence and profanity, blaming the director. He established a short-lived \"Committee for Traditional Jewish Values in Entertainment\" to release films more in line with his values, but later abandoned the project, feeling it would be unfeasible.\n\n\"Red Scorpion\" screened at the 1988 MIFED film market, and was first released theatrically in South Korea in late December 1988, then the Philippines, West Germany, and Japan in January 1989, then in the United States on April 21, 1989. The movie was released theatrically worldwide except in the United Kingdom (where it went \"direct to video\" in January 1990).\n\nKevin Thomas of the \"Los Angeles Times\" described it as \"a numskull live-action comic book\" that, despite showing Lundgren's charisma, is likely to hurt his career. Stephen Holden of \"The New York Times\" wrote that Lundgren's physique is the film's true star, as it communicates more emotion than his acting.\n\nThe film was released in the US on VHS and Laserdisc in August 1989 through Shapiro-Glickenhaus Entertainment Home Video. In 1993, a budget tape of the film was released by Starmaker. The movie has had at least two Region 1 DVD releases. The first DVD was released in 1998 by Simitar and the second DVD was released in 2002 by 20th Century Fox. In 2005, Tango Entertainment released a UMD of the film for the Sony PlayStation Portable. The two DVDs are now discontinued.\n\nThe film has been released on Blu-ray special editions in the U.K. by Arrow Video on 6th Feb 2012, and in the U.S. by Synapse Films on June 12, 2012.\n\nA sequel, \"Red Scorpion 2\", appeared in 1994, although the story is largely unrelated to the first installment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103192", "title": "GHC Openweight Hardcore Championship", "text": "GHC Openweight Hardcore Championship\n\nThe Global Honored Crown Openweight Hardcore Championship was a semi-official professional wrestling championship contested in Pro Wrestling Noah. It was originally created in 2004 as a singles title known as the GHC Openweight Hardcore Championship; in 2007 it was announced that it would be reformed into a tag team title, continuing with the same lineage as the original belt. Later in 2007, it reverted to being a singles championship.\n\nThe Openweight Hardcore Championship, also known as the Global Hardcore Crown, had a unique stipulation attached to it: if the challenger was smaller than the champion, and lasted for 15 minutes, they would win the title. It could also change hands on a countout.\n\nKentaro Shiga, who was the 5th champion before the reforming into a tag team championship, was still recognized as such (along with his tag team partner, Kishin Kawabata), even though it was vacated to be decided in a tournament, which they won.\n\nOn November 19, 2007, Kawabata defeated Shiga to reunify the title. The title has remained inactive since June 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103194", "title": "Nosamo", "text": "Nosamo\n\nNosamo (; acronym for 노무현을 사랑하는 사람들의 모임 \"gathering of people who love Roh Moo-hyun\") is an internet-based group organised in 2000 as a fan club for the South Korean politician and former president Roh Moo-hyun.\n\nNosamo started small (at a PC bang - internet cafes of South Korea - in Daejeon by a few netizens), but soon counted celebrities and prominent political figures among its growing number of members. In 2002, the group came into national prominence as an active force behind Roh's election to the presidency in a tight, bitterly fought contest that pitted Roh against the more established political figure of Lee Hoi-chang (see South Korean Presidential Election, 2002).\n\nLee, seen as the more conservative candidate, drew more support among the older generation, while most of Roh's support came from the younger generation. Nosamo is widely credited with mobilising the younger voters in the election; its efforts included a mobile-phone campaign on election day to urge young voters to cast their ballots.\n\nAfter Roh's victory in the election, Nosamo remained an important source of political support for the president, particularly in 2004 when the South Korean parliament voted to impeach him for illegal electioneering and incompetence; Nosamo members organised a candlelight vigil in protest.\n\nBecause Nosamo as an internet-based political organisation has very little precedent in Korea or elsewhere, it has attracted a fair amount of criticism. Some have questioned whether some of Nosamo's campaign strategies broke election laws, and the selection of prominent Nosamo members as Roh's close aides has invited charges of favouritism. Later, some of these aides were involved in corruption scandals. As of 2005, Nosamo had lost some of its political momentum as Roh's presidency saw a dip in popularity among his core supporters due to his labour policies and the deployment of troops to Iraq.\n\n\nSee also: Politics of South Korea\n"}
{"id": "2103196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103196", "title": "Shefki Kuqi", "text": "Shefki Kuqi\n\nShefki Kuqi (pronounced ; born 10 November 1976) is a Finnish former professional football player.\n\nKuqi played predominately as a striker. He spent most of his career in the English football league system, for clubs including Newcastle United, Sheffield Wednesday, Ipswich Town, Blackburn Rovers, Crystal Palace, Fulham, Swansea City and Oldham Athletic. He made over 500 career league appearances, scoring over 150 goals.\n\nKuqi also represented the Finland national football team at international level, with eight goals from sixty two appearances. His trademark goal celebration of bellyflopping onto the ground has led to his nickname of the \"Flying Finn\".\n\nKuqi started his youth career at Trepça, and he played several games for the youth team, but he and his family later moved to Finland as Kosovar Albanian immigrants.\n\nKuqi started his playing career with Kangasniemen Palloseura. He later played for Mikkelin Kissat, Mikkelin Palloilijat, HJK and FC Jokerit in Finland's Veikkausliiga. Kuqi played in the UEFA Champions League in the autumn of 1998 with HJK. Kuqi was the league top scorer in the 2000 season, representing FC Jokerit. Having played for three clubs in Finland's Veikkausliiga, Kuqi became more well known, leading to his transfer to Stockport County.\n\nKuqi joined Stockport County in January 2001. Kuqi made his debut for the club in a 1–1 draw against Tranmere Rovers on 3 February 2001. Regarded by many as the saviour of County's 2000–01 season as he impressed with his speed and strength, he went on to score six goals in eighteen games to help County retain their division one status. Kuqi is still the club's second most internationally capped player. However, under player-manager Carlton Palmer, after he succeeded Andy Kilner as manager, Kuqi was used less frequently. His good performances led him being linked with his future club Blackburn. Kuqi was on the verge of joining Blackburn worth about a £1.2 million fee, but the move broke down and he accused Palmer of threatening him to be sacked for being injured Palmer was responsible for pressuring Graeme Souness for Kuqi not joining the club. Kuqi still maintains his accusations towards Palmer, claiming his management is 'clueless' and feels the club made a mistake having Palmer as manager. Kuqi would later joined Blackburn Rovers four years later.\n\nKuqi joined Sheffield Wednesday for an undisclosed sum and signed a three-year deal Kuqi made his debut for the club in a 1–0 win over Crewe on 12 January 2002. At Sheffield Wednesday he scored 19 times between January 2002 and September 2003, unfortunately with Wednesday being relegated to Division Two (or League One as it is now known) during his time at Hillsborough. Many Wednesday fans were bemused though at then manager Chris Turner's decision to let Kuqi leave for Ipswich for free after a strained relationship between the two. Whilst in Sheffield, Kuqi also scored a goal against Sheffield United in The Steel City Derby. He scored the second goal in the 81st minute at Hillsborough to ensure a win after Lloyd Owusu had opened the scoring with his very first touch of the ball on his debut.\n\nIn September 2003, Kuqi joined Ipswich Town in September 2003 on loan. After making 11 appearance and scoring 4 goals, Kuqi joined Ipswich Town permanently in November despite late interest from Town's rival Norwich City. For the next two seasons at Ipswich Town, Kuqi became a regular in the first team and able to score goals. He scored 20 goals in the Championship for Ipswich in the 2004–05 season, which made him the club's leading top scorer, along with Darren Bent. By the end of the season with his contract at Ipswich Town coming to an end, Kuqi rejected the offer of a new contract with the club.\n\nHis form with Ipswich earned him a move to the Premier League with Blackburn. Kuqi made his debut in a 3–1 loss against West Ham United on 13 September 2005 and scored his first goal of the Premier League and scored again in a 2–0 win over West Brom on 1 October 2005. After the match, manager Mark Hughes praised Kuqi for his two-goal performance. Kuqi then scored his second brace of the season in a 2–0 win over Middlesbrough on 26 December 2005. During the season, Kuqi struggled to command a first team place and found himself on the bench.\n\nKuqi scored seven Premier League goals for Blackburn in the 2005–06 season, but couldn't replicate his form from his time at Ipswich Town. During the following season Kuqi struggled to break into the first team and made only one appearance, coming on as a substitute in a 3–0 loss against Portsmouth. Six years later, Kuqi revealed he almost joined Celtic, but the club instead opted to sign Jan Vennegoor of Hesselink.\n\nHe joined Crystal Palace for a reported £2.5 million transfer fee at the end of the August transfer window in 2006. On his move, Kuqi admits he was surprised by Blackburn when he was sold to Crystal Palace and made his debut for the club in a 1–1 draw against Luton Town.\n\nKuqi did not have a prolific first season at Selhurst Park, scoring only seven goals in 38 games, and at the end of August 2007, he signed for Fulham on a four-month loan deal, where he made ten league appearances, scoring no goals.\n\nKuqi was placed on the transfer list and fined two weeks wages by Neil Warnock after signalling an offensive gesture to Palace fans when they cheered as he was substituted following a particularly poor performance in the 2–0 defeat against Wolverhampton Wanderers on 23 February 2008. Other reasons behind him being transfer listed were due to his weight gain and lack of fitness and Warnock told Kuqi there will be no way back for him\n\nIn March 2008, Kuqi returned to Ipswich on loan until the end of the season to fill in for the injured Jonathan Walters but failed to reproduce his form at Ipswich Town. He began the 2008–09 campaign with his first team prospects seemingly irretrievable but Crystal Palace manager Neil Warnock named (and used) him as a substitute for the away draw at Ipswich Town and home victory over Charlton in September and on 4 October he scored the second goal of Palace's 2–0 victory at Nottingham Forest. Kuqi's return to the first team completed a remarkable sequence of events, and he ended his season as the top scorer of his team. Kuqi was offered a new contract on 27 January 2009 which he rejected. By the end of the season, Kuqi was offered a new contract again along with 5 other players but a few months later, Warnock said he was expecting Kuqi to leave.\n\nAfter Kuqi's contract ran out at Crystal Palace on 1 July 2009, he signed a two years deal with TuS Koblenz which was his first non-England club since 2001, and the first German club in his career. He also spent half a season playing with his brother, Njazi Kuqi.\n\nKuqi signed for Swansea City on a free transfer from TuS Koblenz on 25 January 2010. He made his debut for the club in a 0–0 draw against Coventry City and scored his first goal for Swansea in a 1–0 win at former club Crystal Palace on 9 February 2010.\n\nDespite scoring seven goals in 16 starts, after less than nine months at Swansea, Kuqi joined fellow Championship side Derby County on a three-month emergency loan deal on 13 September 2010. His first Derby goal, in his third appearance, also, came against Crystal Palace in a 5–0 Derby victory at Pride Park. After latching onto a sloppy stray backpass from former-Derby defender Claude Davis to complete the rout with a goal Kuqi joked that the strike was \"the worst of the five!\" On 26 January 2011 Kuqi's contract with Swansea was terminated by mutual consent after he failed to break through into the first team. After being released by the club, Kuqi was linked with joining Huddersfield Town\n\nOn 10 February 2011, Kuqi joined Premier League side Newcastle United for the remainder of the season. He was given the number 42 shirt and made his debut against former club Blackburn Rovers on 12 February 2011 coming on in the 90th minute in a goalless draw. On his move, Kuqi admitted he was surprised to join the club but admitted that he was 'one of the happiest footballers in the world'\n\nHe was released on 25 May 2011 after making six appearances, all as a substitute, without scoring.\n\nIn August 2011, following his release by Newcastle, Kuqi signed a one-year contract with Oldham Athletic. The signing was considered as something of a coup for the Latics, as Kuqi was playing in the Premier League, the previous season. He scored early in his first game for his new club in a home game against local rivals Huddersfield Town in a 1–1 draw and celebrated with his trademark Flying Finn celebration in front of the away fans. Kuqi made it two goals in two games for Oldham with a headed goal against Stevenage. Kuqi scored his third for Oldham against Leyton Orient in a 3–1 victory; he scored the equalising goal and assisted the other two goals in a 3–1 victory. Kuqi was on target again against the MK Dons in October 2011 taking advantage of a mistake by the MK Dons goalkeeper to help Athletic to a 2–1 victory. Kuqi added another two goals to his tally after scoring twice against Crewe Alexandra in the quarter finals of the Football League Trophy to help Oldham progress to the semi final of the tournament with a 3–1 victory, with Luca Scapuzzi also getting on the scoresheet.\n\nKuqi left the club following the expiry of his contract on 1 July 2012 as the club could not afford to keep him for the 2012–13 campaign.\n\nIn August 2012, Kuqi signed a one-year deal with Scottish Premier League (SPL) team Hibernian, with a further option. On his move, Kuqi said the passion of the fans (Hibernian) convinced him to join the club after he was in the stands to see an Edinburgh derby. On 18 August 2012, Kuqi made his debut, coming on as a substitute in a 2–1 win against St Mirren. Kuqi made only two starting appearances for Hibs during his season with the club and failed to score a goal in 14 total appearances. He was described by BBC Sport as being one of the worst signings in the SPL that season.\n\nKuqi made his debut for the Finnish national team on 18 August 1999 against Belgium, soon after receiving Finnish citizenship. He was a regular member of the Finland squad from 1999 to 2010. Kuqi made 62 appearances for Finland and scored eight goals. He announced his retirement from international football on 24 November 2010.\n\nKuqi has received some media attention – especially from Match of the Day – for his spectacular, and unusual, diving goal celebration known as a Swan Dive. Kuqi jumps forward with both arms out, in what could be described as an attempt to glide like a bird, before crashing to the ground; the movement bears some resemblance to a bellyflop and has been referred to as a \"Flying Finn\".\n\nKuqi was born in Vushtrri, SFR Yugoslavia. An older brother of Kuqi was due to begin national service, which prompted his family to emigrate to Finland, where they were granted asylum. He is the older brother of Njazi Kuqi and Albert Kuqi, and the cousin of Daut Kuqi. In an interview in December 2017, Kuqi unveiled that he is a supporter of English club Manchester United mostly because of Alex Ferguson.\n\nFinland's goal tally first.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103198", "title": "Magic Chef", "text": "Magic Chef\n\nMagic Chef, Inc. (formerly the American Stove Company) is an appliance brand currently owned by CNA International Inc.\n\nIn the 1850s John Ringen, a German immigrant to the United States, began a tinshop in St. Louis, Missouri. His business prospered and, in 1870, he took in a partner, George August Kahle, who had immigrated to America from Germany in 1867. The business sold housewares, early washing machines, and cooking stoves they called \"quick meals\". In 1881, George Kahle persuaded his brothers-in-law, Charles and Louis Stockstrom, to set up a shop to manufacture stoves. These four principals then organized two corporations, the Quick Meal Stove Company and the Ringen Stove Company.\n\nQuick Meal manufactured the stoves, with Ringen Stove handling sales and distribution of the entire output of Quick Meal's production. The phenomenal growth of these two companies during the 1880s and 1890s led to the merger of eight other stove companies in St. Louis, Chicago and Cleveland in 1901 to form the American Stove Company. American Stove introduced the first oven temperature control device in 1914. \n\nIn 1929 it began using the brand name Magic Chef. The Magic Chef name was so successful as an oven and stove brand that American Stove Company changed its name to Magic Chef, Inc. in 1951. The company remained well known for its gas stoves, but attempts to spread the brand to other household appliances were unsuccessful.\n\nIn 1957, it was merged with the Food Giant Markets of California. In 1958, it was sold to Dixie Products, a small stove company of Cleveland, Tennessee, after selling off a few underperforming divisions of Magic Chef. By 1986, the company had become the 249th largest industrial company in the nation, and was sold to Maytag. Magic Chef also made home furnaces and air conditioners; that operation was sold to Lennox International in 1988.\n\nWhirlpool Corporation acquired Maytag Corporation in 2006. Magic Chef has been spun out to CNA International Inc./MC Appliance Corporation, which imports and markets small appliances under several brand names.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103199", "title": "List of Zimbabwe national cricket captains", "text": "List of Zimbabwe national cricket captains\n\nZimbabwe became a full member of the International Cricket Council (ICC) on 6 July 1992, thereby gaining the right to play Test matches. It had previously become an associate member of the ICC on 21 July 1981, a year after the country's internationally recognised independence. Before this, Rhodesia had competed in the South African Currie Cup domestic competition. Since joining the ICC, Zimbabwe have had seven Test captains, fourteen One Day International captains and two Twenty20 captains, along with a number of youth captains.\n\nBefore becoming a full member of the ICC, Zimbabwe played in the 1983 Cricket World Cup, when, under the captaincy of Duncan Fletcher, they beat Australia, and in the 1987 Cricket World Cup under the captaincy of John Traicos, who had previously played Test cricket for South Africa. Upon full membership, David Houghton captained the side in Zimbabwe's first Test matches, as well as in the 1992 Cricket World Cup. Andy Flower, the most successful batsman Zimbabwe has produced, captained the side to their first Test win against Pakistan in 1995. He was followed as captain by Alistair Campbell. Under his captaincy, the side achieved its first Test series win in 1998 and, in the 1999 Cricket World Cup, passed the first round for the first time.\n\nAfter Campbell's resignation for \"personal reasons\", fast bowler Heath Streak became captain. While Test success—except against newcomers Bangladesh—remained elusive, the side once again reached the second round of the 2003 Cricket World Cup, when they co-hosted the tournament. Not long after this tournament, however, the Zimbabwe Cricket Union sacked Streak, prompting 14 other players to walk out, leaving Tatenda Taibu as captain in the age of 20\n. During his tenure as captain, the side suffered its first defeat to Bangladesh and failed to win a single Test. Further political problems led to Taibu's resignation in 2006. At this point, Zimbabwe withdrew from playing Test matches. Since the Test withdrawal, several players have captained the one day side, although none has achieved significant success. The side is once again competing in the South African domestic competition under the captaincy of Hamilton Masakadza.\n\nAs of October 2009, seven cricketers have captained the Zimbabwean cricket team for at least one Test match. The table of results is complete to the second Test against India on 22 September 2005, the last Test in which Zimbabwe have played. Where a player has a dagger (†) next to a Test match series in which he captained at least one Test, that denotes that player deputised for the appointed captain or was appointed for a minor proportion in a series.\n\nZimbabwe played their first Test match, after regaining their Test status, against Bangladesh at the Harare Sports Club in Harare. The only Test started on Thursday 4 August 2011. Bangladesh won the toss and elected to field first. Zimbabwe won the Test on day five by 130 runs. Since then they won three Tests more, two against Bangladesh and one against Pakistan.\n\nAs of July 2019, 18 cricketers have captained the Zimbabwean cricket team for at least one One Day International.\n\nAndy Flower and Grant Flower are brothers.\n\nTwo cricketers have captained the Zimbabwean cricket team for at least one Twenty20 international.\n\nTwo cricketers have captained the Zimbabwean Under-19 cricket team for at least one under-19 Test match.\n\nTen cricketers have captained the Zimbabwean Under-19 cricket team for at least one Under-19 One Day International.\n\nThe ICC Trophy is the leading one-day tournament from non-Test teams, and Zimbabwe participated in the tournament before they gained Test status in 1992. Two cricketers captained Zimbabwe in the ICC Trophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103200", "title": "June 26 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 26 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 25 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 27\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on July 9 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 26th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 13.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2103204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103204", "title": "David Best (politician)", "text": "David Best (politician)\n\nDavid Alexander Best (November 21, 1880 in Derry, Ireland – February 1, 1949) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1941 to 1945 as an anti-coalition Conservative.\n\nBorn in Derry, the son of David Best and Martha Peden, Best was educated at Foyle College, worked for the British civil service and then moved to Canada in 1911. He worked as an accountant and printing salesman, and was elected as the reeve of St. James, Manitoba in 1938. In 1907, he married Rachel Watterson.\n\nBest was elected to the Manitoba legislature in the provincial election of 1941. Prior to this election, the Conservative Party of Manitoba entered a coalition government led by the Liberal Progressive Party and also including the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation and Social Credit. A number of Conservatives opposed joining the coalition, and ran for the legislature against their party's position.\n\nBest was one of three anti-coalition Conservatives elected to the legislature in 1941. He defeated CCF incumbent James Aiken in Assiniboia by 274 votes, and served as an opposition member for the parliament that followed.\n\nIn 1943, the Conservative Party changed its name to the Progressive Conservative Party. Best ran in the 1945 provincial election as an official Progressive Conservative candidate, but lost to CCF candidate Ernest Draffin by 180 votes.\n\nHe died at home in Winnipeg at the age of 68.\n"}
{"id": "2103217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103217", "title": "Factory Girl (2006 film)", "text": "Factory Girl (2006 film)\n\nFactory Girl is a 2006 American biographical film directed by George Hickenlooper. It is based on the rapid rise and fall of 1960s underground film star and socialite Edie Sedgwick (played by Sienna Miller), known for her association with the artist Andy Warhol (Guy Pearce).\n\nThe film premiered in Los Angeles on December 29, 2006 to largely negative reviews from critics, who nonetheless praised Miller's performance as Sedgwick.\n\nThe film is framed by Edie Sedgwick (Sienna Miller) being interviewed in a hospital several years after her time as an Andy Warhol superstar.\n\nIn the mid 1960s, Edie is a young heiress studying art in Cambridge, Massachusetts. She moves to New York City with her friend, Chuck Wein (Jimmy Fallon). She is introduced to pop art painter and film-maker Andy Warhol (Guy Pearce), who is intrigued by the beautiful, clearly troubled socialite. He asks her to perform in one of his underground, experimental films. She agrees and goes on to star in several of Andy's projects, becoming his muse.\n\nShe and Chuck become part of the tightly-knit, bohemian social scene at Andy's famous art studio, the Silver Factory. Edie's status as a Warhol superstar and rising youthquake fashion model earn her fame and international attention. The success, however, fails to ease her psychological issues. Although descended from a prestigious family lineage and raised on an idyllic, California ranch, Edie was sexually abused by her father during childhood. She has been further shaken by the fairly recent death of her favorite brother, Minty. Her trauma manifests itself in uncontrolled spending, poor money management and a burgeoning drug habit.\n\nEdie's Cambridge friend, Syd (Shawn Hatosy), visits her in New York City and introduces her to folk singer Billy Quinn (Hayden Christensen), a character based on Bob Dylan. Edie and Billy begin a relationship, which causes Andy to become jealous. Edie attempts to make peace between the two men by arranging a screen test for Billy at Andy's Factory.\n\nWhen Billy and his posse arrive, they act disrespectfully towards Andy. Billy and Edie fight and he tells her that Andy is a \"bloodsucker\" who will \"kill\" her. She tearfully responds that she \"can't hate him.\" Realizing that she has chosen Andy over him, Billy leaves her.\n\nEdie's worsening drug addiction begins taking its toll. Her relationship with Andy deteriorates and she becomes a pariah among the Factory crowd. One night, while in a drug-induced stupor, she falls asleep with a lit cigarette and nearly dies in the ensuing apartment fire. \"Vogue\", which once championed her as the newest \"it\" girl, now refuses to hire her; editor Diana Vreeland (Illeana Douglas) explains that Edie is considered \"vulgar\" due to her current lifestyle.\n\nWhen Syd visits Edie again, she is barely conscious and is being filmed naked by three strangers in her apartment. Syd kicks the men out and looks after Edie. He gets them a taxi and shows her a photo of herself back in Cambridge. He says she inspired him back then and she can be an artist once more. Edie, deeply upset at how far she's fallen, gets out of their cab and runs frantically down the street.\n\nThe scene transitions to the film's opening framing device of the hospital interview several years later. Edie tells the interviewer that to \"stay off the drugs\" is to be a battle every day, that she is pursuing art again and is glad to be home in Santa Barbara, California. The closing captions explain that in her last few years Edie continued in her struggle with dependency. Her short marriage to a fellow patient ended when she died of a barbiturate overdose at the age of 28.\n\nMeanwhile, in New York City, Andy is interviewed the day after Edie died in 1971. When the interviewer asks about her and Andy's \"breakup,\" Andy becomes visibly uncomfortable but manages to complete his thought that it was just so long ago and he hardly knew her at all.\n\n\nLou Reed, singer/songwriter of the Velvet Underground and one of the Factory people who knew Sedgwick, hated the film. He told the \"New York Daily News\", \"I read that script. It's one of the most disgusting, foul things I've seen – by any illiterate retard – in a long time. There's no limit to how low some people will go to write something to make money... They're all a bunch of whores.\"\n\nBob Dylan threatened to sue, saying through his lawyers that the script insinuated his responsibility in Sedgwick's drug abuse and death. Although the name of the character in question was changed to Billy Quinn, Dylan still attempted to halt the film's release. Sienna Miller defended the film against Dylan's allegations, saying in an interview with the Guardian, \"It blames Warhol more than anyone, because he did abandon her...there was a friendship there, she needed help and no one helped her. It's not that Dylan drove her to heroin addiction.\"\n\nSedgwick’s brother Jonathan claimed that Dylan got her pregnant during their relationship, and that she had an abortion.\n\nThe film was set back by numerous delays, including a lawsuit by Sony Pictures, as well as the schedules of Miller and Pearce, so additional shooting was delayed until mid November 2006. Consequently, producer Harvey Weinstein had to postpone the release date. Additionally, according to director George Hickenlooper, the budget was once expected to be $8 million, but ended up being less than $7 million.\n\nHickenlooper helmed the additional shoots and mixed the final cut of the film in New York City, where he worked in close collaboration with Weinstein. Weinstein released the picture on December 29, 2006 in Los Angeles. Because the post production schedule was so delayed, Hickenlooper continued to sound edit the film after its initial release. The film received a nationwide release on February 2, 2007.\n\nDuring the fall of 2008, Hickenlooper uploaded a rough director's cut of the film to YouTube now referred to as \"The Unseen Director’s Cut.\" Due to the Weinstein Company's ownership of the footage and the material not being authorized for release, it was removed from the website.\n\nKatie Holmes was set to star as Sedgwick, but it was reported Tom Cruise convinced Holmes not to do it because it would be bad for her image. Regarding the rumors, Holmes said, \"I declined the role in \"Factory Girl\" based on my own decisions about the movie.\" The role then went back to Miller. However, Holmes had also stated that even if she did take the part, she would have had to drop out because she was pregnant when the movie was set to begin filming.\n\nNew York City, Toronto, Stamford, Connecticut, and Shreveport, Louisiana served as the filming locations.\n\nThe film received generally negative reviews, but Sienna Miller's performance as Edie Sedgwick was met with critical acclaim. Johnny Vaughan from \"Sun\" Online concluded that \"It's Sienna Miller's star that shines brightest in this heartbreaking cautionary tale.\" \"Empire\" magazine described \"Factory Girl\" as \"A brave bid to recreate a modern American tragedy, with a revelatory turn by its lead actress.\" Richard Roeper said \"I think Sienna Miller does a really nice job of capturing Edie Sedgwick, who really was the fore-runner to Paris Hilton and a lot of other people who are just famous for being famous.\" Mick LaSalle from \"San Francisco Chronicle\" said \"Miller gets old and used up before our eyes, and we not only see it, we see what it means to experience it. This is a movie about power, and its spectacle is that of a woman losing all of it.\"\n\nStella Papamichael wrote for the BBC: \"In all it's an unconvincing portrait, and as the Dylan clone says, \"Empty, like one of those cans of soup...\". Trevor Johnston for \"Time Out\" wrote \"One wonders whether the documentary format would have better served the material than this ill-focused drama. Since real-life family and observers chime in over the end credits, perhaps the filmmakers were thinking the same thing.\" In \"The Guardian\", Peter Bradshaw gave the film two out of five stars and said; \"Edie Sedgwick's story is sad, but never appears important or interesting.\" Jim Lewis of \"Slate\" felt the film didn't do justice to Warhol's artistic accomplishments and concluded, \"Factory Girl isn't just a bad movie, it's a 90-minute insult to the culture it pretends to be capturing.\"\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 20% based on reviews from 114 critics. The websites' consensus states \"Despite a dedicated performance by Sienna Miller, Factory Girl delves only superficially into her character, and ultimately fails to tell a coherent story.\" On Metacritic the film has a score of 45% based on reviews from 27 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". \n\n"}
{"id": "2103222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103222", "title": "Lepidium latifolium", "text": "Lepidium latifolium\n\nLepidium latifolium, known by several common names including perennial pepperweed, broadleaved pepperweed, pepperwort, or peppergrass, dittander, dittany, and tall whitetop, is a perennial plant that is a member of the mustard and cabbage family.\n\nThis plant is native to southern Europe, Mediterranean countries and Asia as far east as the Himalayas. It is an introduced species in North America, where it grows throughout the United States and Mexico, and Australia. It may have been introduced to the United States when its seed got into a shipment of sugar beet seeds.\n\n\"L. latifolium\" normally grows to between 30 centimeters and 1 meter, but may grow as tall as 2 meters. The plants have numerous woody stems, alternating waxy leaves and clusters of small, white flowers. It produces small (1.6 millimeter) fruits which each contain two reddish seeds. It has an extensive root network, known to reach 9 feet in depth and constitute 40% of the total biomass of the plant.\n\nDried stems of \"L. latifolium\" are sometimes used in flower arrangements.\n\nThe plant is most invasive in wetland habitat, including riparian zone; from there it easily spreads to other ecosystems, such as sagebrush. It is perceived as a threat to salt marshes in southern New Hampshire, United States, recently prompting the Department of Environmental Services and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to look for it in the Hampton–Seabrook Estuary, where it is thought to have spread. The agencies are recruiting volunteers to help look for and properly remove it from this area. It is also a pest in the Monte Vista and Alamosa National Wildlife Refuges in Colorado and Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Oregon, and many other sites.\n\nThe leaves, shoots, and fruits of this plant are all edible.\n\nIn Ladakh in the Himalayas, the spring leaves are prized as a vegetable. The peppery edge or bitterness is removed by first boiling the young shoots and leaves, and then soaking in water for two days. Cooked like spinach, it makes a nutritious vegetable.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103226", "title": "Energy and Environmental Research Center", "text": "Energy and Environmental Research Center\n\nThe Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) in Grand Forks, North Dakota, United States is a research, development, demonstration, and commercialization facility for energy and environment technologies development. The center is a nonprofit division of the University of North Dakota.\n\nThe center was founded in 1951 as the Robertson Lignite Research Laboratory, a federal facility under the United States Bureau of Mines, named after Charles R. Robertson. It became a federal energy technology center under the United States Department of Energy in 1977 and was defederalized in 1983. The center employs approximately 210 employees.\n\nThe EERC conducts research, development, demonstration, and commercialization activities involving zero-emissions coal conversion; CO capture and sequestration; energy and water sustainability; hydrogen and fuel cells; advanced air emission control technologies, emphasizing SO, NO, air toxics, fine particulate, CO, and mercury control; renewable energy; wind energy; water management; flood prevention; global climate change; waste utilization; energy efficiency; and contaminant cleanup.\n\nThe EERC is located on more than of land on the southeast corner of the UND campus in Grand Forks, North Dakota, and houses of laboratories, fabrication facilities, technology demonstration facilities, and offices. The EERC has a current contract portfolio of over $208.4 million and the EERC's estimated regional economic impact is $78.1 million. Since 1987, the EERC has had more than 1,315 clients in 50 states and 52 countries.\n\nThe EERC's eleven centers of excellence include the following:\n\nThe National Center for Hydrogen Technology does research in hydrogen and fuel cell technology. In 2006, hydrogen-related contracts at the NCHT totaled more than $20 million. Groundbreaking on the NCHT building on the EERC campus took place on April 17, 2006.\n"}
{"id": "2103234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103234", "title": "Erik Hagen", "text": "Erik Hagen\n\nErik Hagen (born 20 July 1975) is a retired Norwegian footballer who played as a centre-back in Norway and Russia, as well as for the Norwegian national team, earning 28 caps.\n\nDuring his time with Vålerenga, Hagen received the nickname \"Panzer\" from the club's fans. Amongst other things he created a \"hate list\" of Norwegian footballers in the club magazine Vål'enga Magasin, containing the likes of Vidar Riseth.\n\nHagen won the Kniksen Award as Defender of the Year, and as Kniksen of the Year in 2004. The Kniksen award is the highest individual award for a Norwegian footballer.\n\nIn December 2004 Hagen was sold to Zenit Saint Petersburg, becoming the first Norwegian footballer to play in Russia. In 2005, he played 28 league matches for Zenit, receiving 12 cautions. In January 2006 he was elected vice-captain by the team.\n\nOn 31 January 2008, it was announced that Hagen would be joining Premier League club Wigan Athletic, signing on loan until the end of the English season. However, he only made one appearance for the team, in the away defeat at Portsmouth.\n\nOn 28 July 2008, Hagen appeared at the Vålerenga home game against Tromsø, where it was announced he had re-signed for the club until the end of the 2010 season. The return of one of Vålerenga's most popular players was well received with supporters.\n\nDuring an interview in April 2014, Hagen admitted to bribing a referee in a European match during his time with Zenit Saint Petersburg.\n\nHagen made his debut, aged 29, for the Norwegian national team away to Scotland on 9 October 2004. Norway won 1–0.\n\nHagen has a twin brother, Rune Hagen, who also plays professional football. He signed for Vålerenga at the same time as his brother.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103235", "title": "Thomas L. Smith", "text": "Thomas L. Smith\n\nThomas Long \"Pegleg\" Smith (October 10, 1801 – October 1866) was a mountain man who, serving as a guide for many early expeditions into the American Southwest, helped explore parts of present-day New Mexico. He is also known as a fur trapper, prospector, and horse thief.\n\nBorn in Crab Orchard, Kentucky, Smith ran away from home as a teenager to work on a flatboat on the Mississippi River until reaching St. Louis, Missouri where he began working for John Jacob Astor as a fur trapper with other mountain men such as Kit Carson, Jim Bridger, and Milton Sublette.\n\nSmith later accompanied Alexandre Le Grand's expedition into New Mexico as a scout, later learning several Native American languages. During the expedition he was shot in the right knee by a local Indian; the wound and resulting infection forced the amputation of Smith's right leg below the knee; it is said that he performed the operation himself, almost completing it before passing out from blood loss and shock. He then had to use a wooden leg from which he later earned his nickname. He also learned how to remove his leg and did that to defend himself during fights. Following the expedition, Smith became a successful fur trapper despite his handicap, later relearning how to maintain his balance while riding a horse.\n\nBy 1840, with the decline of the fur trade, Smith began kidnapping Native American children to sell as peons to Mexican haciendas. When the local tribes began searching for him, Smith fled to California, where he would become a horse thief for the next decade.\n\nIn one incident, Smith guided around 150 Utes under the leadership of Walkara across the Sierra Nevada, stealing at least several hundred horses from Mexican ranchers. Joining Jim Beckwourth and \"Old Bill\" Williams, Smith helped establish the largest horse theft operation in the Southwest until authorities eventually forced the gang to break up in the late 1840s.\n\nSmith traveled to the Chocolate Mountains (and possibly the Santa Rosa Mountains, or the Borrego Badlands) where, after several years of prospecting, he was forced, by local tribes, to escape the area. Claiming he had discovered a large amount of gold-bearing quartz, Smith sold maps and claims to other prospectors of a mine known as the Lost Pegleg Mine until his death in a San Francisco hospital in 1866.\n\nEach year the \"Pegleg Smith Liars Contest\" is held at California's Anza-Borrego Desert State Park.\n\nThe actor Ralph Sanford portrayed Smith in \"The Lost Pegleg Mine\" (1952), the fourth episode of the syndicated television anthology series, \"Death Valley Days,\" hosted by Stanley Andrews. In the story line, Peter Trumble (Gil Frye) (1918-2000) is competing with Jeanne DeCourcey (Gloria Eaton) in a race to find the lost mine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103242", "title": "Dean Edell", "text": "Dean Edell\n\nDean Edell (born 26 March 1941) is an American physician and broadcaster who hosted the Dr. Dean Edell radio program, a syndicated radio talk show which aired live from 1979 until December 10, 2010. He was also nationally syndicated in television as a medical news reporter and host of his own television shows including NBC's Dr. Dean.\n\nBorn in Newark, New Jersey on 26 March 1941, Edell's father was a vitamin manufacturer in the 1940s and 50s. Edell studied zoology at Cornell University and earned his M.D. from Cornell University Medical School in 1967. Edell later opened a private ophthalmology practice in San Diego, California and acted as an instructor of Anatomy and a clinical instructor at the University of California, San Diego. Edell soon quit medical practice altogether in 1973. He later said that he \"... didn't like medicine originally...I kind of found the thing I love the most, which is really the information and communicating the information\".\n\nHe spent the next several years experimenting with lifestyles that included buying and selling antiques, acting as a silversmith and goldsmith, organic farming, painting, living in a 1950s-vintage bus and engaging in a self-described hand-to-mouth existence that included scavenging for food thrown out by grocery stores. During this period he describes himself as a hippie.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Edell worked for an antique auction gallery and also had a jewelry and antique shop of his own in Sacramento, California. To supplement his income he served as medical director of the County Alcohol and Drug Rehabilitation Center in Sacramento, California. A co-worker introduced Edell to the owner of country music station KRAK and suggested Edell try doing a talk show. He did 6 call in-shows for that station in 1978. His radio career began. He moved to the San Francisco Bay Area in 1980, and currently lives in rural Mendocino County.\n\nEdell maintains collections of Chinese art, Chinese snuff bottles, and rare books on anatomy. On October 5, 2007, Christie's held an auction of Edell's anatomy art collection.\n\nEdell's sister is a Hollywood costume designer.\n\nIn 1979, Edell began broadcasting regularly on KGO radio in San Francisco. At that time talk radio had never been successfully syndicated. In 1986 Ed McLaughlin, then president of ABC Radio's failed attempt to syndicate talk radio, quit his job and teamed up with Edell. The show soon reached 350-400 markets with 8.5 million weekly listeners. They also launched Medical Minutes, 60 second medical news segments into 400 markets. McLaughlin proved radio talk shows could be successfully syndicated. He then turned his attention to a then unknown radio personality from Sacramento named Rush Limbaugh, who by summer of 1989 surpassed Edell in ratings and went on to become the most successful talk radio host in America. For most of the 90's Edell was the second most listened to radio talk show in America.\nBy 2005, the \"Dr. Dean Edell\" radio program was syndicated to over 200 markets by Premiere Radio Networks, and aired weekday afternoons on America's Talk on XM Radio. The program was estimated to have 1.5 million unique listeners a week.\n\nThe program's format was unique. Edell answered personal medical questions from callers and\nincluded commentary on articles that appeared in medical journals as well as opinions about controversial medical issues. From the beginning of his career, Edell was a strong advocate for the scientific method and often criticized the media for unnecessarily publicizing unsupported health scares without proper scientific investigation. He was very concerned about the decline in scientific literacy in America. He railed against pseudoscience and magical thinking and was very critical of unproven alternative healing methods, the vitamin and herbal supplement industry, fad diets and diet pills, and many anti-science groups opposing vaccines, or fluoride or other scientifically accepted practices. He also questioned many mainstream medical practices like new born circumcision, cesarean sections, hysterectomies, and the over diagnosis of fad health maladies. He was an early supporter of medical marijuana and research into the therapeutic use of psychedelic drugs. He generally opposed the war on drugs. \nOn December 1, 2010, Edell announced his retirement from radio. In 2010 Edell was named by Talkers Magazine to be among the 100 most important radio talk show hosts of all time.\n\nFrom 1979, when Edell was the only physician in America employed full-time by a local television news station, until March 2007, Edell did nightly health reports for KGO-TV news, the local ABC station in the San Francisco Bay Area. These television news reports were syndicated nationally to over 100 local television news stations. He also did nightly live segments on KGO-TV news called \"House Calls\" during which he spontaneously answered live viewer call-in questions. He used his art background to draw explanations while he answered questions. This segment was also done live by satellite for KABC-TV in Los Angeles. He has now retired from these regular television reports.\n\nIn 1986, KGO-TV produced \"Dr. Edell's Medical Journal\", a weekly live audience health magazine show, the first of its genre. The show was syndicated and also carried by Discovery Channel as well as PBS. It won the IRIS award at the National Association of Television Programming Executives (NATPE) in 1986 and was accepted into the permanent collection of the Museum of Broadcasting on April 11, 1988. Variety's review reported that \"Edell is clearly charming, glib and informed.\"\n\nIn June 1992, NBC television network launched \"Dr.Dean\", a half-hour daily television show, the first time an M.D. hosted his own daily network television show. \"The Hollywood Reporter\" described him a \"Likeable, informed man with something to say.\" He hosted other television shows, \"Hey Dr. Dean, Calling Dr. Dean, and By Appointment with Dr. Dean\" all with varied success. He also hosted a quarterly series of TV specials called \"Medical Breakthroughs Presented by HealthCentral\", which are syndicated to local stations via the HealthCentral Network.\n\nEdell was the author of the \"Edell Health Letter\", published from 1982 until 1994. Five years later the editorial staff of Healthcentral.com wrote articles based on his radio show topics on HealthCentral.com from 1999 until 2001 when the site went bankrupt and was sold to new owners.\n\n\nIn 1999, Edell launched the aforementioned \"HealthCentral\", a website featuring both personally authored content and general health-related information with the mission of \"becoming your favorite consumer health information service.\" Edell lost his ownership position in this company when it filed for bankruptcy in 2001. The site is now owned and operated by Washington, D.C.-based The HealthCentral Network. The site no longer publishes new content by Edell, though his advice column and articles that predate the bankruptcy are featured prominently.\n\nEdell has won media awards for his work, including the C. Everett Koop Media Award, the Edward R. Murrow Award, a national Emmy, the American Cancer Society Recognition Award, and the American Heart Association Award. In August 2011 Dr. Edell was honored by The Independent Investigations Group with an 'Iggie' award for promoting science and critical thinking in mainstream media. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103252", "title": "Stoney Trail", "text": "Stoney Trail\n\nStoney Trail is a freeway in Calgary, Alberta. Signed as Highway 201, it is a ring road that is approximately 70% complete, serving as an important bypass around the city and an alternate route to the congested Highway 1 (Trans-Canada Highway) and Highway 2 (Deerfoot Trail). Stoney Trail begins in the city's northwest at Highway 1 near Canada Olympic Park, running north across the Bow River and Crowchild Trail. It winds through neighbourhoods of northwest Calgary to Deerfoot Trail and the Queen Elizabeth II Highway. Turning south, the freeway again intersects Highway 1, crosses Glenmore Trail, and curves west at the neighbourhood of Mahogany. Beyond a second major interchange with Deerfoot Trail, it descends across the Bow River and ends at Macleod Trail in the city's southeast.\n\nThe \"Stoney\" name is derived from Alberta's Nakoda First Nation; the freeway is one of several major thoroughfares in Calgary that bear Indigenous names. Plans for the route were developed at a similar time as those for Anthony Henday Drive, a completed ring road that encircles Edmonton. Construction first began on the northwest leg as an expressway in the 1990s, incrementally extending east before two public–private partnership (P3) projects completed the northeast and southeast sections of the ring in 2009 and 2013, respectively. After right of way was acquired from the Tsuu T'ina Nation in 2013, work began in 2016 to complete an additional section of the ring effectively extending Sarcee Trail south across the Elbow River to Highway 22X. This section will be named Tsuut’ina Trail and is slated to fully open by October 1, 2021.\n\nAt its busiest point near Beddington Trail in north Calgary, the six-lane freeway carries nearly 80,000 vehicles per day. Construction of the final short segment of Stoney Trail west of the city began in 2019, completing the ring in 2022. It will extend the freeway south to Glenmore Trail from its current northern terminus at Highway 1.\n\nStoney Trail currently consists of the northern and southeastern sections of the ring road, and, at its completion, will effectively be a freeway that encircles the entire city. The northern and southern sections create a northern and eastern bypass link between Highway 1 (Trans-Canada Highway) and Deerfoot Trail (Highway 2).\n\nPlanning for the Calgary and Edmonton ring roads began in the 1970s when Alberta developed some restricted development areas in a corridor of land then mostly outside the developed civic areas for future infrastructure, including high-speed ring-road systems. This land is also known as the Transportation and Utility Corridor (TUC), as land set aside for future road and utility purposes. Land acquisition started in 1974, and by the time the ring road projects were initiated, Alberta had acquired 97% of the lands. The Calgary TUC failed to include a corridor in southwest Calgary between Glenmore Trail and Highway 22X. The City of Calgary is bounded along 37 Street SW by the Tsuu T'ina Nation. The developed areas of Calgary had already reached 37 Street SW around the Glenmore Reservoir inhibiting the ability of the government to impose an RDA. The missing link in the TUC map created uncertainty in the future positioning of the southwest leg of the freeway. In 2013, a land acquisition agreement was signed by Alberta with the Tsuu T'ina Nation, and construction began in 2016.\n\nThe northwest quadrant of the ring road was the first to be constructed. In the mid-1990s, the province of Alberta built the first segment around the Bow River Bridge connecting Highway 1 with Crowchild Trail. This was subsequently extended to Country Hill Boulevard. In 2003, the province announced plans for a east Deerfoot Trail. The original design was limited in scope and incorporated two interchanges, one flyover and two signalized intersections with completion scheduled in 2007 at a cost of $250  million. In January 2005, the province announced an increase in scope of the project with the addition of three additional interchanges at Crowchild Trail, Country Hills Boulevard and Scenic Acres Link.\nIn addition to increasing costs, the project was delayed and the full extension to Deerfoot Trail was not opened until November 2, 2009, although some sections were opened earlier.\nThe portion of the ring road between Harvest Hills Boulevard and Deerfoot Trail opened to traffic on November 2, 2009. 30,000 to 40,000 vehicles were expected to use this segment daily. Actual peak traffic volumes exceeded 40,000 vpd between Crowchild Trail and Country Hills Boulevard in 2010.\n\nGrading has been completed for a future interchange at 11 Street NE. This road would service undeveloped industrial land bounded to the east by Deerfoot Trail, north by Stoney Trail, west by the CPR right-of-way and south by Country Hills Boulevard. No schedule has been set for the construction of this interchange. The interchange will also provide a road connection north of Stoney Trail.\n\nThe northwest ring road opened on November 2, 2009, with traffic signals at Harvest Hills Boulevard but grading was completed for a future possible interchange. On November 25, 2009, the province announced construction of the Harvest Hills Boulevard Interchange to be opening in fall 2010. The cost of the interchange project was $14 million. The interchange opened to traffic in 2010. Grading has been completed for a future interchange at 14 Street NW. At present, there is a right-in-right-out access south of Stoney Trail into the Panorama Hills neighbourhood. No schedule had been set for the construction of this interchange. The interchange will also provide a road connection north of Stoney Trail. In summer 2014, grading began for westbound exit to 14th (northbound only) and southbound 14th entrance ramp to westbound Stoney.\n\nA signalized intersection was initially constructed at Beddington Trail and Symons Valley Road, but it was upgraded to an interchange when the project was finished in 2009. This interchange opened in July 2009, when the segment from Sarcee Trail to Harvest Hills Boulevard was opened a few months ahead of the full extension to Deerfoot Trail. Originally, Alberta Transportation intended only to construct a flyover at Shaganappi Trail, with no connections to the northwest ring road when the project was initiated but was upgraded to an interchange when the project was finished in 2009. This interchange opened in July 2009 when the segment from Sarcee Trail to Harvest Hills Boulevard was opened a few months ahead of the full extension to Deerfoot Trail.\n\nAt Sarcee Trail a signalized intersection was initially constructed, but upgraded to an interchange when the project was completed. The segment from Country Hills Boulevard to Sarcee Trail was opened on November 25, 2008, a year ahead of the full extension to Deerfoot Trail. An interchange at Country Hills Boulevard was added to the northwest ring road project in January 2005 to replace the original signalized intersection built when this segment of the ring road was built in the 1990s. The original project scope had this remaining as a signalized intersection. The interchange opened to traffic in September 2008.\n\nA new interchange was announced on  28, 2005, for Crowchild Trail as part of an upgrade to the $250 million project. Plans to extend the CTrain resulted in changes to the design of the interchange. The Crowchild Interchange was constructed along a pre-existing portion of Stoney Trail, and the design was modified to be free-flowing and to include an LRT bridge to allow for the CTrain to be extended west to Tuscany station. The Crowchild interchange fully opened to traffic on September 28, 2011.\n\nIn January 2005, an interchange at Tuscany Boulveard/Scenic Acres Link was added. The full interchange opened to traffic in the fall of 2009. Following the completion of the Crowchild Trail interchange, the only remaining traffic signals were at the intersection with Nose Hill Drive. Aecom was retained in the spring of 2010 to plan, design and administer construction of this interchange to be open in the fall of 2012. Design and public information delays caused Alberta Transportation to revise its expectations and it was announced that construction of the interchange would commence in early 2011 and be completed in the fall of 2013. However, the tender process was slow to be initiated and it was not until November 17, 2011 that Alberta Transportation announced the Nose Hill Drive interchange would be built by Acciona Infrastructure Canada at a cost of $67 million and be opened to traffic in the fall of 2014.\n\nConstruction of the northeast portion of the freeway began in 2007 and opened to traffic on November 2, 2009, connecting the Deerfoot Trail interchange to 17 Avenue SE (formerly Highway 1A). In December 2005, Calgary had announced it was in talks with the province to expedite construction, and on February 22, 2007 Alberta's Ministry of Infrastructure and Transportation awarded a contract to the Stoney Trail Group public-private partnership consortium (P3) for construction of the project's first stage, and maintenance of the northwest and northeast sections of the ring road for 30 years following completion.\n\nMajor interchanges along the northeast route include Métis Trail (which serves as an alternate link to the CrossIron Mills shopping area north of the city, Country Hills Boulevard, McKnight Boulevard, and 16 Avenue NE (Highway 1). A partial cloverleaf interchange was built at Métis Trail, a north–south expressway. The City of Calgary opened the extension of Métis Trail between 80 and 96 Avenues NE on October 29, 2011. Right-in/right-out ramps to 60 Street NE from eastbound Stoney Trail were completed on November 22, 2019. Grading has been completed for a future interchange at 60 Street NE that will be completed when required, and may also be future right of way for a CTrain extension. On October 12, 2011, 96 Avenue was opened from Stoney Trail west to 60 Street NE, accessible only from the south. The diamond interchange at McKnight Boulevard will be upgraded into a partial cloverleaf interchange when required. The project included a large cloverstack interchange at 16 Avenue NE.\nOn March 2, 2009, the Alberta Government announced the proceeding with construction of the remaining portion of the East Freeway from 17 Avenue SE to Highway 22X, as well as improvements to the existing Highway 22X roadway between that location and just east of the Macleod Trail (Highway 2A) interchange. This portion, like the northeastern portion, was built as a P3. Three firms bid on the contract: Chinook Partnership, SEConnect and SE Calgary Connector Group. The winning bid of $769 million was submitted by Chinook Roads Partnership. Chinook Roads Partnership will also be responsible for maintenance of this portion of the Ring Road, as well as maintenance of Deerfoot Trail between Highway 22X and Highway 2A for 30 years after construction completion.\n\nConstruction on the southeast leg began in the spring of 2010, and was opened on November 22, 2013, almost two months behind schedule. The southeast extension of Stoney Trail also resulted in upgrades to Highway 22X between Stoney and Macleod Trails. When the extension opened in 2013, the City officially renamed this portion of 22X as part of Stoney Trail, and the province designated it as part of Highway 201. Highway 22X continues west of Macleod Trail as Spruce Meadows Trail, while 22X continues east of Stoney Trail toward Gleichen.\n\nAn interchange was constructed at Sun Valley Boulevard / Chaparral Boulevard, upgraded from the existing intersection. The original project schedule from June 2010 had interchange construction starting in 2010 with construction of the bridge structure in 2011 towards a phased opening in 2012-2013.<ref name=\"Chinook Roads Partnership/Government of Alberta Infrastructure and Transportation 2010\"></ref><ref name=\"Chinook Roads Partnership/Government of Alberta Infrastructure and Transportation 2011\"></ref>\n\nThe McKenzie Lake Boulevard / Cranston Boulevard intersection was upgraded to a modified diamond interchange; work on this interchange began 2010 and by fall 2011 the bridge structure had been erected. The interchange design is a modified diamond and integrates into the nearby cloverstack interchange at Deerfoot Trail.\n\nSome residents of the Cranston neighbourhood were unhappy with the design of the interchange, as access was removed from westbound Stoney Trail to the interchange or the Cranston Avenue / Seton Boulevard interchange on Deerfoot Trail. Access was also removed Commuters also cannot go on to the ramp to Deerfoot Trail southbound and can go only northbound when on the ramp to the highway. The commuters are forced to use the 52 Street interchange to the east. As for the commuters heading to northbound Deerfoot, they have to head to the McKenzie Towne / McKenzie Lake Boulevard interchange or the Seton Boulevard / Cranston Avenue interchange, which both lead to Deerfoot Trail northbound.\n\nA partial cloverleaf interchange was constructed at 52 Street SE. The original project schedule from June 2010 had this interchange fully opening in the fall of 2013 with traffic on the new structure in the summer of 2012 with construction starting in 2011. The revised project schedule of June 2011 still indicated a fall 2013 opening, the only significant difference is the temporary constructions detour road has been shifted to the east side of the bridge structure from the west side. As of December 2011, construction of the interchange had started with grading of the interchange ramps and piling installation. 52 Street interchange was completed with the rest of the project on November 22, 2013. At 88 Street SE, Stoney Trail intersects with 22X with a hybrid interchange. An existing intersection at 88 Street SE was removed. Grading was also completed for a future interchange at 130 Avenue. A similar partial cloverleaf interchange was constructed at a slightly realigned 114 Avenue SE. The interchange fully opened on November 22, 2013.\n\nPartial cloverleaf interchanges were constructed at Glenmore and Peigan Trails. Peigan Trail was also be extended from 52 Street to Stoney Trail as a result. The existing 17 Avenue SE intersection, which had been the terminus of the freeway since 2009, was upgraded to a partial cloverleaf interchange.\n\nIn the fall of 2011, the province held a community consultation meeting on upgrading the Macleod Trail / 22X interchange, which was not included in the southeast ring road project. Pending funding, this will open in the fall of 2014 which includes twinning the bridge over Macleod Trail and twinning an additional bridge structure over the CPR right-of-way. The existing interchange is also only an undivided single lane in each direction along 22X on the bridge structure over Macleod Trail. This is the only single-lane segment of 22X between Deerfoot Trail and the junction with Highway 22 at west of Calgary. This will upgrade the interchange to a full cloverleaf and remove the lights on 22X west of Macleod Trail. This will become an interim full systems interchange with no signalized intersections on the access ramps. The ultimate interchange design includes a stacked interchange with flyovers from westbound 22X to southbound Macleod Trail and northbound Macleod to westbound 22X. The ultimate interchange design was predicated on the traffic volumes associated with the Southwest Calgary Ring Road and was to have been built as part of the Southwest Calgary Ring Road project. With the Tsuu T'ina vote of June 30, 2009 rejecting the ring road agreement putting uncertainty back in the Southwest Ring Road project, the construction of the ultimate interchange configuration has been deferred.\n\nThis interchange is further complicated by the fact it contains a right in right out access into the adjacent Shawnessy Town Center regional commercial area. At present, traffic can exit onto the interchange access ramps allowing egress to eastbound and westbound Highway 22X. Reduced access from the Shawnessy Town Center will be maintained but only onto the southbound Macleod to westbound 22X ramp.\n\nThe final leg of the freeway is currently under construction following a land transfer agreement with the Tsuu T'ina First Nation. Plans call for the road to be initially built as a 4-6 lane expressway to be completed by October 1, 2021. with the ability to easily upgrade the corridor to the 'ultimate' stage (to be completed by 2035) as a 16 lane freeway with express and collector lanes.\n\nPlanned upgrades for the Highway 22X or Spruce Meadows Trail SW portion of the Southwest Calgary Ring Road include upgrading Highway 22X west of Macleod Trail to freeway status. These three interchange upgrades along with the Highway 22X / Macleod Trail Interchange upgrades were part of the Southwest Calgary Ring Road project which was to be completed with the successful agreement with the Tsuu T'ina Nation on the contentious Anderson Road to Glenmore Trail segment. With the acceptance of the agreement on October 24, 2013, the 22X interchange upgrades will be constructed with the rest of the Southwest Ring Road Project. Highway 22X/Southwest Calgary Ring Road will retain connectivity with 6 Street SW which will be upgraded to partial cloverleaf interchanges. The close proximity of 6 Street SW to Macleod Trail will necessitate some shared access ramps. Highway 22X/Southwest Calgary Ring Road will also retain connectivity with James McKevitt Road upgrading to a partial cloverleaf interchange.\n\nThe existing intersection of 24 Street with 22X will be permanently removed when the Southwest Calgary Ring Road is constructed as this road is just east of the future junction of 22X and the future north-south alignment of the Southwest Calgary Ring Road.\nA new full systems interchange built at 22X and the new alignment for the northwest-southeast segment of the Southwest Ring Road (Sarcee Trail Extension) to Anderson Road.\n\nThe existing intersection and 37 Street would be removed when the Southwest Calgary Ring Road is constructed as this road is just west of the future junction of 22X and the future north-south alignment of the Southwest Calgary Ring Road (Sarcee Trail Extension). At present 162 Avenue does not connect with either the future Southwest Ring Road ROW or 37 Street SW. When the Southwest Ring Road is built, 162 Avenue will be extended west to connect up with the Ring Road. The future interchange will be a partial cloverleaf.\n\nPlanning for construction of the final segment of Stoney Trail, which will link from the current southern terminus at Highway 1 to Highway 8 is currently in progress. Construction will most likely begin in early-mid 2019 after all construction on the southwest segment is completed in late 2021. This portion of the freeway will require additional bridge structures to be constructed on the 16 Avenue interchange, in addition to new overpasses and flyovers built at Old Banff Coach Road, Bow Trail (12 Avenue SW), 17 Avenue SW, and Glenmore Trail (Highway 8). The proposed alignment for this portion of the freeway will run south from its current terminus through the Paskapoo slopes on the west side of Canada Olympic Park, then adjacent to the communities of Cougar Ridge, West Springs, Aspen Woods, and Springbank Hill to the east of 101 Street SW, and ending with an interchange at Highway 8.\nGoing clockwise:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103254", "title": "Salih (crater)", "text": "Salih (crater)\n\nSalih is a small crater near the sub-Saturnian point of Saturn's moon Enceladus. Salih was first discovered in images taken by the \"Voyager 2\" spacecraft. It is located at 6.5° South Latitude, 0° West Longitude (IAU-defined longitude is 5° West Longitude) and is 4 kilometers across. Available images of this crater have too low resolution to determine anything about the geology of this crater.\n\nSalih is named after the brother of Julnar in the \"Arabian Nights\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2103255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103255", "title": "Ian Maxtone-Graham", "text": "Ian Maxtone-Graham\n\nIan Howes Maxtone-Graham (born July 3, 1959) is an American television writer and producer. He has formerly written for \"Saturday Night Live\" (1992–1995) and \"The Simpsons\" (1995–2012), as well as serving as a co-executive producer and consulting producer for the latter.\nMaxtone-Graham was born in New York City, the son of maritime historian John Maxtone-Graham. He is the great-nephew of Jan Struther, the writer of Mrs. Miniver. He attended Trinity School and Brown University. An enthusiastic swimmer, his first job after college was as a diver with an underwater research team. After struggling to establish a career in journalism, he penned material for the television show \"Not Necessarily the News\" and the magazines \"National Lampoon\" and \"Army Man\". His work in \"Army Man\", an offbeat magazine published by future \"Simpsons\" colleague George Meyer, brought him to the attention of Jack Handey, who suggested he work for \"Saturday Night Live\".\n\nWhile working for \"Saturday Night Live\", Maxtone-Graham co-wrote \"The Chanukah Song\" with Adam Sandler and, according to the DVD commentary for the \"SNL\" clip show \"The Best of Alec Baldwin,\" also wrote the infamous \"Canteen Boy\" sketch in which Canteen Boy is sexually molested by his scoutmaster, Mr. Armstrong (played by episode host Alec Baldwin). According to the memoir of Jay Mohr, Ian Maxtone-Graham threatened to quit and sue the show during the 1993-94 season after an altercation with Norm Macdonald: the lawsuit never came to fruition. \n\nDuring all-night \"Saturday Night Live\" writing sessions, Sarah Silverman often stole underwear and socks from a cache of fresh clothes Maxtone-Graham kept in his office, and wore them in lieu of her own clothes.\n\nMaxtone-Graham has become somewhat infamous among \"The Simpsons\" fans for a 1998 interview with \"The Independent\", in which he admitted that he had \"barely\" seen \"The Simpsons\" before being hired, and ridiculed \"the beetle-browed people on the internet\" for their criticism of the show. Although he upset many fans with his comments, Maxtone-Graham has won six Emmys for his work on \"The Simpsons\", and received an Annie Award for writing \"The Seemingly Neverending Story\".\n\nOne of the episodes written by Maxtone-Graham is \"E-I-E-I-(Annoyed Grunt)\", in which Homer grows a tomato-tobacco hybrid called \"tomacco\". The episode was widely acclaimed from viewers and critics alike. Notably, it inspired an Oregon man to make his own version of tomacco by grafting a tomato stem with a tobacco root. He eventually gave some to Maxtone-Graham, who ate it.\n\nAt 6'8\" (2.03m), Maxtone-Graham inspired a character on \"The Simpsons\": \"Very Tall Man\", who first appeared in \"22 Short Films About Springfield\".\n\nMaxtone-Graham has been credited as writing the following episodes of \"The Simpsons\":\n\n"}
{"id": "2103262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103262", "title": "Take This to Your Grave", "text": "Take This to Your Grave\n\nTake This to Your Grave is the debut studio album by American rock band Fall Out Boy, released on May 6, 2003 by Fueled by Ramen. When the band was signed to Island Records, the label employed an unusual strategy that allowed them to sign with independent label Fueled by Ramen for their debut and later move to Island for their second album. Sean O'Keefe had helped with the band's demo, and they returned to Smart Studios in Madison, Wisconsin to record the bulk of their first album with him. Living on a stranger's floor for part of the time and running out of money halfway through, the band recorded seven songs in nine days, bringing them together with the additional three from the demo.\n\nWhile Patrick Stump had previously written all of its lyrics and took them lightly, Pete Wentz took to the process with considerable seriousness and obsessively picked apart his bandmate's lyrics. The exhausting process led to numerous revisions of single songs and several arguments. The album cover, which shows the four bandmates sitting on a broken futon, features a blue tint reminiscent of jazz records, and was the second choice after the original was rejected by the label.\n\n\"Take This to Your Grave\" gradually created interest in the band as they toured across the country, including a five-day stint on Warped Tour 2004. The album produced three singles, including the minor success \"Grand Theft Autumn/Where Is Your Boy\", and has often been named as a vital blueprint for pop punk, with \"Alternative Press\" calling it a \"subcultural touchstone\" and a \"magical, transcendent, and deceptively smart pop punk masterpiece that ushered in a vibrant scene resurgence with a potent combination of charisma, new media marketing and hardcore-punk urgency\".\n\nFall Out Boy was formed in 2001 in the Chicago suburb of Wilmette, Illinois by friends Pete Wentz and Joe Trohman. Wentz was a \"visible fixture\" of the relatively small Chicago hardcore punk scene of the late 1990s, performing in various groups including the metalcore band Arma Angelus. Wentz was growing dissatisfied with the changing mores of the community, which he viewed as a transition from political activism to an emphasis on moshing and breakdowns. With his enthusiasm in Arma Angelus waning, he created a pop punk side project with Trohman. Trohman met Patrick Stump, the drummer for grindcore band xgrinding processx\nat a bookstore in Wilmette. The band's first public performance was in a cafeteria at DePaul University. The band's only performance with guitarist John Flamandan and original drummer Ben Rose was in retrospect described as \"goofy\" and \"bad\", but Trohman made an active effort to make the band work, picking up members for practice.\n\nThe band later went to Wisconsin to record a proper demo with 7 Angels 7 Plagues drummer Jared Logan. Uprising Records owner Sean Muttaqi wanted to release half of it as a split extended play (EP) with Andy Hurley's band Project Rocket, which the band viewed as competition. With Logan's help, the group put together a collection of songs in two days, and recorded them as \"Fall Out Boy's Evening Out with Your Girlfriend\". The rushed recording experience, and underdeveloped songs, left the band discontented. At Smart Studios in Madison, Wisconsin to record their three songs of a possible split 7-inch with 504 Plan, engineer Sean O'Keefe suggested they record with Hurley who sat in for the session.\n\nThe band booked a two-week tour with Spitalfield, and invited Hurley to fill-in for recently departed members, while Stump borrowed one of Trohman's guitars for the trek. The band began to shop around the three songs from their unreleased split as a demo to record labels. In the process, Bob McLynn of Crush Management became the band's first manager. The band returned to the studio with O'Keefe to record several more tracks to create label interest. John Janick of Fueled by Ramen had heard an early version of a song online and cold-called the band at their apartment, first reaching Stump and later talking to Wentz for an hour. Rob Stevenson from Island Records eventually offered the band a \"first-ever incubator sort of deal,\" in which they gave the band money to sign with Fueled by Ramen for their one-off debut, knowing they could \"upstream\" the band to radio with the sophomore record. Fueled by Ramen, at the time the smallest of independent labels clamoring to sign the band, would effectively release their debut album, and help build their ever-expanding fanbase before they moved to Island. While the band had secured an investment from the label, they did not see immediate success.\n\nThe pre-production phase was completed in a warehouse the band used at night, free of charge, where they discussed how they wanted the songs to sound. Many songs intended for the album did not fit, and though the band originally planned to use the leftovers for future albums, they abandoned the songs instead.\n\nThe band again partnered with O'Keefe at Smart Studios in Madison, bringing together the three songs from the demo and recording an additional seven songs in nine days. According to Stump, the band didn't \"sleep anywhere that we could shower [...] There was a girl that Andy's girlfriend at the time went to school with who let us sleep on her floor, but we'd be there for maybe four hours at a time. It was crazy.\" According to Wentz, \"we were lying to our parents about what we were doing, cutting corners. I was supposed to be in school. I didn't have access to money or a credit card. I don't think any of us did.\" The studio provided the band with soda during the recording process, but the band was hungry: \"We were like, 'Could you take that soda money and buy us peanut butter, jelly and bread?' which they did.\" The group's goal with \"Grave\" was to make an album that was as \"seamless and good from song to song\" as Saves the Day's \"Through Being Cool\".\n\nO'Keefe paid for studio time for the band himself. Because of his perfectionist tendencies he pushed the band so that Hurley felt the recording process was more professional. He compared the making of \"Take This to Your Grave\" to \"going to war\", stating that recording with the rest of the band was similar to \"being in the trenches together\". The process was not without its difficulties: \"It's not always happy: There's a lot of push and pull and each of them trying to get their thing. With [the album], we never let anything go until all three of us were happy,\" said O'Keefe. Wentz recalled that it was \"mind-blowing\" to see a certification plaque for Nirvana's \"Nevermind\" on a wall. The band was shown the microphone used in the recording of that album, but were unable to use it as \"they said only Shirley [Manson] from Garbage could use it\". The group created a running joke to pick on O'Keefe after he mentioned he had smoked marijuana at least once months before. The quartet was straight-edge then and exaggerated the story to insinuate O'Keefe was a habitual, obsessive user of the drug. The band credited O'Keefe in the album booklet with \"like 10 different stoner nicknames - 'Dimebag O'Keefe'\", although only several remained after the record label felt it \"excessively ridiculous\".\n\nThe band received a $40,000 investment from Island Records to create the album, but it was completed for roughly $18,000.\n\nThe album was described as pop punk, emo, and emo pop. Mani Mostofi, former vocalist of Racetraitor, had held many discussions with Wentz when the band formed about their pop punk sound, which Wentz described as \"softcore.\" Mostofi described \"Take This to Your Grave\" as \"\"sounding\" like Hot Topic,\" but \"\"feeling\" like CBGB.\"\n\nAccording to Johnny Loftus of Allmusic, \"Take This to Your Grave\"s lyrical content \"merges musings on love and youth with healthy amounts of cutting cynicism, savvy popular culture touchstones, and cheeky phraseology\". Stump wrote \"Saturday\" about how he felt like a failure on graduating from high school, and originally kept the song to himself until the group needed additional songs. Stump then collaborated with bassist Pete Wentz to complete the song's lyrics. \"Grand Theft Autumn/Where Is Your Boy\" deals with jealousy and unrequited love.\n\nStump, who viewed himself an \"artsy fartsy dude who didn't want to be in a pop-punk band,\" had written most of the band's lyrics to that point, including the songs \"Saturday\", \"Dead on Arrival/Where is Your Boy\", \"Grenade Jumper\", and \"Homesick at Space Camp\". While Stump did not take his lyrics seriously, Wentz had recently re-committed himself to the band and \"it felt like he had a list of things in his head he wanted to do right. Lyrics were on that list.\" Wentz picked apart Stump's lyrics excessively down to syllables and began giving him notes. Stump felt exasperated, remarking to the bassist, \"You just write the fucking lyrics dude. Just give me your lyrics and I'll write around them.\" The duo were new to this process, and they found it exhausting: Stump would write the song, scrap his lyrics, then attempt to fit Wentz's lyrics where his were.\n\nStump was more concerned with the melodies, including the rhythm, syncopation and alliteration of words, while Wentz felt none of it mattered if the lyrics themselves lacked meaning. The result made the two musicians unhappy: \"Man, did we fight about that,\" recalled Stump in 2013. \"We fought for nine days straight all while not sleeping and smelling like shit. It was one long argument, but I think some of the best moments are the result of that.\" O'Keefe commented on this process: \"They would go through 10 revisions for one song. I thought I was going to lose my mind with both of them.\"\n\n\"'Tell That Mick He Just Made My List of Things to Do Today'\" opens with a telephone dial tone, which Wentz found particularly enjoyable, as it provided stark contrast to the louder instrumentation to follow. The song's chorus was the result of many arguments between Wentz and Stump over the phonetic phrasing of words versus their meaning. Wentz ended up throwing out all of Stump's lyrics for the first time in the recording process, and rewrote them entirely himself - a first. Stump said, \"I realized I must really want to be in this band at this point if I'm willing to put up with this much fuss.\" Lyrics such as \"Let's play this game called 'when you catch fire' / I wouldn't piss to put you out,\" were inspired by Chris Conley's use of bizarre metaphors to prove a point on Saves the Day's \"Through Being Cool\". \"Dead on Arrival\" is among the earliest compositions, dating to before Hurley joined the band. Stump's song \"Saturday\" marked one of the first times Wentz and Stump collaborated on lyrics. Wentz considered it the best representation of the band at the time. In contrast, both disliked \"Grand Theft Autumn/Where Is Your Boy\" during the recording process; Stump particularly disliked the a cappella opening, which was O'Keefe's idea.\n\n\"Sending Postcards from a Plane Crash\" is largely a studio creation, and was seldom played live by the band. Stump and Wentz had a particularly big fight regarding the track \"Chicago is So Two Years Ago,\" which Stump initially did not want to record. He had secretly kept it to himself in case the band did not work out, and he wanted to pursue his own music, but O'Keefe wanted to introduce it to the rest of the band after he heard Stump singing it to himself in the studio lobby. Wentz disliked several lyrics, and he and Stump argued over every word one by one. The bridge features a guest appearance by Motion City Soundtrack frontman Justin Pierre. The band had wanted Pierre on the song but schedules did not work out initially. O'Keefe, who was friends with Pierre, recorded Pierre's part, which he wrote while the band was on tour, leaving it as a \"surprise\" for the rest of the group. \"Grenade Jumper\" references Christopher Gutierrez, who was an early supporter, and attended each show from the beginning. The song's chorus came from a conversation between Trohman and Stump in the kitchen of the band's apartment. Trohman said they should write a fan appreciation song, and Stump noted how Chris \"was [their] only friend\". The song's title refers to a phrase coined by the band regarding \"whoever would be the person that would have... um, relations Biblically with a girl in order to have the rest of the band stay at the house,\" said Wentz.\n\n\"Calm Before the Storm\" appears on the band's first true recording, \"Fall Out Boy's Evening Out with Your Girlfriend\". Its bridge features a \"screaming harmony\" from Wentz, which took \"five or six\" digital tracks to create. \"Reinventing the Wheel to Run Myself Over\" was heavily inspired by the band Lifetime. Following the song's conclusion, De'Mar Hamilton of Plain White T's can be heard singing the song's refrain while laughing. \"The Patron Saint of Liars and Fakes\" was composed in drop D and provides a \"dark ending\" to the record. Stump wrote it just outside his vocal range, and found it difficult to sing while recording, as he was not a singer before joining the band. It was intended as a foreshadowing of the sound the band intended to use on their next record. (The song that opens their second album, \"Our Lawyers Made Us Change The Name Of This Song So We Wouldn't Get Sued\", is also composed in drop D).\n\nThe blue-tinted cover of \"Take This to Your Grave\" features the band's four members — left to right, Pete Wentz, Andy Hurley, Patrick Stump and Joe Trohman — sitting on a couch with their names printed above, in a nod to classic Blue Note jazz records. The futon pictured in the photograph was actually broken in the middle and contributed to the members' close proximity. The exposed brick wall was part of what Wentz described as \"the worst apartment of all time\". The photo was simply a promotional photo taken during the album's promotional cycle, although Stump wanted a live photo on the cover. It was originally intended to be used on the back cover, and left one unnamed member of the band \"pissed about it forever\". In addition, not every member was keen on having their names printed on the cover, as it was very uncommon for modern albums. Wentz used the cover in an effort to reject the notion that the group was all about him, and to demonstrate that the four members mattered as a team. \"Pete had always wanted to create a culture with the band where it was about all four guys and not just one guy,\" remembered Stump.\n\nRyan Bakerink was the album's photographer shooting both the rejected and final cover. The band stripped Wentz's bedroom, the largest, and filled it with items from each member's room to create the set. \"In hindsight, I kind of feel like the rest of the band just let Pete do all of the heavy lifting. It was exhausting. We were carrying beds and dressers and all these things into the other room, and we were just soaked in sweat,\" Bakerink recalled. He had had a lengthy conversation with Stump about Stump's love for Elvis Costello, and found an \"Armed Forces\" LP of Stump's sitting out, strategically placing it in the image to play it off as Stump's. As the band was \"rooted in nostalgia from early on,\" the photograph was filled with 1980s toys and cereals. The photo went through several versions, with one idea involving the bed sheet pulled back, as if somebody had got out of bed and left a letter to someone. As the album title had yet to be finalized, they did two shots of a sealed envelope, one with the alternate title \"To My Favorite Liar\" and one with \"Take This to Your Grave\". Eventually, Wentz suggested they use his then girlfriend, lying on her back in bed, exhausted. Bakerink showed the Polaroid to Wentz, who immediately loved the shot. The photo session ran later and later, and by 2:00 am they began shooting individual member shots and what became the album cover. When it was sent to Fueled by Ramen for approval, the label responded that they \"couldn't clear any of this stuff,\" such as posters of Cher, Morrisey and \"Edward Scissorhands,\" and images of Count Chocula and Darth Vader. When Trohman showed the new album cover to Bakerink at the album release party at the Metro, he was surprised: \"It was interesting how they ended up using the last image we took that night, and I didn't even know if it was supposed to be used at all. I wound up really liking it.\" The original cover was eventually used for the first pressing of the album's vinyl edition.\n\n\"Alternative Press\" called the finalized cover \"the pop-punk \"Abbey Road\",\" calling it \"instantly recognizable, extremely identifiable and absolutely iconic in certain circles\". Wentz elaborated on the selection of that particular image and not the record's original cover: \"It makes me wonder: How many of these things are just accidental moments? [...] If we had a bigger budget, we probably would have ended up with a goofier cover that no one would have cared about.\"\n\n\"Take This to Your Grave\" was released in the United States on May 6, 2003, by Fueled by Ramen. The band held a release party at Chicago venue The Metro. Previously, one of the band's earliest recordings, \"Evening Out with Your Girlfriend\", had not been released until shortly before \"Grave\" in March 2003, when the band had gained considerable momentum. \"Our record was something being rushed out to help generate some interest, but that interest was building before we could even get the record out,\" said Sean Muttaqi. The band actively tried to stop Uprising from releasing the recordings as the band's relationship with Muttaqi had soured. The band viewed it as a \"giant piece of garbage\" recorded before Hurley's involvement, and the band ceased to consider it their debut album.\n\nGradually, the band's fanbase grew as the label pushed for the album's mainstream success. The band's popularity grew as the band \"would play anywhere\"; they did frequent in-store performances at retailers selling the album. While many were corporate-owned with numerous rules, some, such as Hollister, allowed the band to perform as they wanted. One performance at a Hollister store in a mall in Schaumberg, Illinois, the band's merchandise manager took a decorative surfboard off a wall and began crowd surfing during the band's final song. According to Wentz, shows began to end in a near-riot, and the group were banned from several venues because the entire crowd would end up onstage. The band garnered positive reviews for subsequent gigs at South by Southwest (SXSW) and various tour appearances. They joined the Warped Tour for five dates in the summer of 2004, and on one date the band had only performed three songs when the stage collapsed due to the large crowd (the band finished with an a capella rendition \"Where Is Your Boy\" with the audience). Many of the more established bands were angry at the new \"up-and-comers\" stealing the spotlight. The band was photographed for the cover of the August 2004 edition of \"Alternative Press\", and listening stations at Hot Topic partially helped the album move 2,000-3,000 copies per week by Christmas 2004, at which point the label considered the band \"tipping\" into mainstream success. Prior to signing with Island, \"Take This to Your Grave\" had sold 200,000–300,000 copies, considered outstanding for an independent album.\n\nIn 2005, a second single \"Grand Theft Autumn/Where Is Your Boy\" peaked at number 84 on the now-defunct \"Billboard\" Pop 100. The album was re-released in January 2005 as \"Take This to Your Grave: Director's Cut\" for a run of 5000 copies, featuring a dance remix and a cover of The Police's \"Roxanne\", along with enhanced CD footage of the band commentating and breaking down each song, and the music video for \"Saturday\". In 2006, \"Take This to Your Grave\" was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America for shipments of 500,000 copies, and had sold over 553,000 copies by January 2007. By the week ending August 24, 2008, \"Take This to Your Grave\" passed 634,000 sales according to \"Billboard\". In 2013, the album was certified gold British Phonographic Industry for over 100,000 shipments.\n\nJohnny Loftus of AllMusic described the album as a \"spectacular debut art project,\" calling it \"a smart collection of emo-influenced pop-punk tunes\". \"Rolling Stone\" wrote that \"FOB show[s] a knack for mixing caffeinated, up-tempo tunes with sensitive, tortured lyrics [...] Overall, it's the run-of-the-mill stuff you'd hear from just about any other Warped Tour act.\"\n\nRetrospective reviews have been very positive. \"Alternative Press\" called the album a \"subcultural touchstone,\" describing it as \"a magical, transcendent and deceptively smart pop-punk masterpiece that ushered in a vibrant scene resurgence with a potent combination of charisma, new media marketing and hardcore-punk urgency\". The band expanded upon their evaluation, writing, \"There's no overstating the impact \"Take This to Your Grave\" has had on not only the scene (and eventually mainstream culture) [...] it represents a zeitgeist that launched untold numbers of bands to pick up some musical gear, make noise in their garages and actively participate in this culture. The fact that the album continues to resonate with generations in the years following is a testament to its longevity.\" \"Rolling Stone\" placed the album at number 5 on their \"50 Greatest Pop-Punk Albums\" list, writing that \"Take This To Your Grave\" \"ushered in a whole new, genre-blurring scene, in which heavy riffs and a screamo aesthetic mingled with old-fashioned teen heartbreak.\" \"Gigwise\" called the album \"an almost flawless slice of pop-punk [...] The record had just the right amount of sincerity, cynicism and slick pop-culture references — it didn't matter if you were 14 or 24, \"TTTYG\" would appeal to the streak of teenage bitterness inside all of us.\"\n\n\n\n\"Take This to Your Grave\" debuted on the US \"Billboard\" Heatseeker Albums chart at No. 31 on the week ending March 6, 2004, almost a year after its initial May 2003 release, and peaked at No. 11 the week ending January 15, 2005, almost a year later. It spent twenty-eight weeks on the chart in total. After its first three weeks, at No. 31, No. 41 and No. 22, the album fell off the chart and re-entered four months later at No. 29, falling out after nine more weeks. Three months later it re-entered at No. 37, then rose to No. 34 the following week peaking at No. 11 It then logged another eight weeks below No. 20. Again, it fell off and shortly re-entered at No. 43, inching up to No. 42 before dropping off and re-entering at No. 48. It spent its last week on the chart two years after its initial release at No. 47 the week ending May 14, 2005. The band's follow-up release \"From Under the Cork Tree\" debuted at No. 9 on the \"Billboard\" 200 the following week, which made the band ineligible to chart on the Heatseeker Albums chart any longer. In February 2006, \"Take This to Your Grave\" reached No. 96 on the UK albums chart.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103278", "title": "Yamba, New South Wales", "text": "Yamba, New South Wales\n\nYamba is a locality in northern New South Wales, Australia at the mouth of the Clarence River. The first European to visit the area was Matthew Flinders, who stopped in Yamba Bay for six days in July 1799.\n\nThe town economy is strongly based on fishing and tourism, but has a diverse range of influences, due to the 'Sea Change' phenomena and the large number of baby boomers who are starting to retire to the warmer climates.\n\nIn 2017, Yamba had a population of 6,135, but as a popular tourist destination, it can triple its population in the holiday period. In 2009 Yamba was voted the number 1 town in Australia by Australian Traveller Magazine.\n\nYamba is known to have experienced the natural phenomenon known as sea foam.\n\nThe Yaegl and Bundjalung people are the traditional custodians of the coastal areas around Yamba, Iluka and Maclean. The ancestors of the present day Yaegl people lived around the mouth of the Clarence River and spoke Yaygirr which was closely related to Gumbaynggirr. There is evidence the Yaygirr had permanent settlements and a developed material culture. Matthew Flinders (1799) described large bark huts with rounded passageway entrances to protect dwellers from wind and rain. Similarly Captain Perry (1839) described canoes of a superior construction. (See Eleanor H McSwan’s ‘A history of Yamba and Iluka’)\n\nIn 1799 Matthew Flinders landed on the present southern headland at Yamba. He’d been despatched from Sydney to find a new Eden, but from his vantage point atop a craggy promontory, now Pilot Head, he dismissed the turbulent estuary as dangerous and unworthy of further examination, and then sailed away. In the 1830s, timber harvesting commenced. In 1861, the townsite was surveyed, and by October 1862 construction of the breakwater \"Clarence River Heads\" Post Office was completed. Originally named Shoal Bay in 1885, it was renamed \"Yamba\" with a population of approx 340.\n\nIn 1908 the Yamba Surf Lifesaving Club was formed and is one of the oldest surf clubs in the world. Yamba began to develop as a tourist destination in the 1930s following the arrival of the railway line at nearby Grafton. Guesthouses were replaced by motels and holiday apartments following the sealing of the main road in 1958, with visitors now able to use bridges rather than punts and ferries.\n\nFishing and oyster industries were established in the 1880s, with prawn trawling pioneered in the 1940s. Sugar cane farming is now the major cropping industry in the region following full mechanisation of the cane cutting process in 1978. Riverboats and steamers that plied between Grafton and Sydney were gradually replaced by rail and better road connections from the 1970s.\n\nThere are two theories as to the meaning of Yamba, one being that it is the local Aboriginal word for \"headland\". However, J.S. Ryan, following R.L. Dawson's early \"Recollections and Records of the Clarence Aborigines\", believes the most likely derivation is an Aboriginal word \"yumbah\" meaning a rough edible shellfish the size of a man's hand that clings to rocks and is similar to an oyster.\n\nSince 1 December 2011, the Port of Yamba has been managed by the Sydney Ports Corporation, which on 1 July 2014 became the Port Authority of New South Wales, a corporation owned by the Government of New South Wales. The major export from the port is timber. There are regular general cargo services from Yamba to Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island, and New Zealand.\n\nIn year ended 30 June 2012, the port handled approximately of cargo and vessels up to in length. In addition to the Port wharf, Yamba has privately owned slipway and repair wharves.\n\nYamba is surrounded by Yuraygir National Park, the Clarence River, Pacific Ocean and rural land. The town is within reach of Ballina, Lismore and Grafton. Yamba is only an hour from Byron Bay, two hours from Coffs Harbour and the Gold Coast and three hours from Brisbane. It is also a two-hour flight from Sydney.\n\nYamba boasts eleven beaches within the 2464 postcode: Whiting, Turners, Yamba (Main), Convent/McKittricks, Pippi, Flat Rock (Barri Point), and Barri (known locally as Dump Beach). Nearby beaches to the north include Woody Head, Iluka Bluff, Back Beach (Iluka), and to the south Green Point, Spooky, Angourie Bay, Angourie Point, Back Beach (Angourie), Shelley, Caves, and Plumbago.\n\nYamba has a humid subtropical climate (\"Cfa\" according to the Köppen climate classification system). \n\nThe town has a relaxed lifestyle with access to two pubs and two clubs, The Pacific Hotel and Yamba Shores Tavern, a golf Club and a bowling club all with regular live performances. Yamba also has sporting and recreation groups such as the Yamba Buccaneers rugby union club and the Yamba Breakers football club, the Yamba Community Heated Pool and Raymond Laurie Sports Centre, plus restaurants, a YHA, eateries, cafes, internet facilities, cinema, primary schools, churches, golf course, library, post office, banks, bowling greens and a large deep-water marina.\n\nPeak tourist seasons are Dec/Jan, Easter, mid year and October.\nYamba is also home to the Lower Clarence and Surrounds FM Community Radio Station TLC FM 100.3.\n\nAt the northern tip of Pippi beach is \"Lovers Point Rock Wall\". Between May - October whales can be seen passing by. Dolphins are plentiful all around Yamba and can be observed swimming, surfing and fishing quite close to shore. Other attractions include Yamba Lighthouse also known as Clarence River Light, Story House museum, the ferry to Iluka on the northern banks, Yuraygir and Bundjalung National Parks and the surf beach at Angourie.\nThere are also a number of local restaurants and boast cruises available. Popular activities include fishing, surfing, kayaking, bike riding and camping.\n\nLocated at Ford Park on the 4th Sunday of every month, the Yamba River Markets showcases local musicians, fresh produce from local farmers, food stalls, and arts and craft tents. Once a year Yamba hosts \"Surfing The Coldstream Festival\", delivering an outdoor community stage with predominately root based music that is broad enough to excite the demographic spread of residents and visitors. The performers share their acts, drumming, dancing, cultural art exhibitions, food and amusement rides.\n\nBuses run through Yamba. The nearest airport is Grafton Airport (YGFN) and there is a private airstrip on Palmers Island, just outside Yamba.\nAlternatively Yamba is serviced by Lismore Regional Airport located 92 km to the north and offering several daily flights to Sydney.\n\nNote: There is no high school in Yamba. Most Yamba high school students attend Maclean High School.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103282", "title": "John M. Spalding", "text": "John M. Spalding\n\nJohn M. Spalding (often misspelled \"Spaulding\" in official Army reports) (December 17, 1914 – November 6, 1959) was an officer in the U.S. 1st Infantry Division during World War II.\n\nSpalding was a native of Owensboro, Kentucky. He is famous as one of the first officers (a lieutenant at the time for E Company, 2nd Battalion, 16th Infantry) to make it up to the top of bloody Omaha Beach and clear out German defenses from behind. He and his men, including his sergeant, Philip Streczyk, helped make the breakthrough there on D-Day possible. His platoon landed on the Easy Red sector, and made it to the seawall largely intact, unlike most in the first wave. Instead of attacking up the beach exits, as was planned, he instead helped find and clear a path up the mined bluffs, right of Exit E-1. Once at the top, his team was the first to attack the enemy fortifications from the rear, clearing out trenches and pillboxes along Exit E-1. Later on D-Day he was involved in actions further inland at Colleville-sur-Mer. For his actions on D-Day, he was later awarded the Distinguished Service Cross. After the war, he returned there and served in the Kentucky House of Representatives as a Democrat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103286", "title": "June 27 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 27 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 26 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 28\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on July 10 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 27th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 14.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2103294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103294", "title": "Peter Donnelly", "text": "Peter Donnelly\n\nSir Peter James Donnelly (born 15 May 1959) is an Australian mathematician and Professor of Statistical Science at the University of Oxford, and the CEO of Genomics PLC. He is a specialist in applied probability and has made contributions to coalescent theory. His research group at Oxford has an international reputation for the development of statistical methodology to analyze genetic data.\n\nDonnelly was born and raised in Brisbane, Queensland, the son of financial adviser, economic theorist and author Austin Donnelly and Sheila Donnelly. He is the brother of Sharon Donnelly and of eminent Australian financier, funds manager and company director Melda Donnelly. He was educated at St. Joseph's Christian Brothers College, Gregory Terrace, the University of Queensland and Balliol College, Oxford.\n\nWhen elected to a chair at Queen Mary College, London in 1988 Donnelly was only 29, and possibly the youngest Professor in Great Britain. He held a chair at the University of Chicago (1994–96) and was head of the Department of Statistics at the University of Oxford from 1996 to 2001. From 2007 to 2018, he was Director, Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics (WTCHG) in Oxford. He is a fellow at St Anne's College, Oxford.\n\nMany leading statistical geneticists worked with Donnelly as young researchers including David Balding, Carsten Wiuf, Matthew Stephens and Jonathan Pritchard. One area in which he has a leading reputation is in the interpretation of DNA evidence. He has acted as an expert witness on forensic science in criminal trials.\n\nHe is noted for his collaborative work with biologists. He has been heavily involved in a number of large scale projects, such as the International HapMap Project and the Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium, a genome-wide association study.\n\nIn 2015, Donnelly was elected as Chairman of the Royal Society's Machine Learning Working Group \n\nDonnelly was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 2006 and also elected as a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences in 2008.\n\nOther significant awards and honours have included:\n\n\nDonnelly was knighted in the 2019 Birthday Honours for services to the understanding of human genetics in disease.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103297", "title": "Life Model Decoy", "text": "Life Model Decoy\n\nA Life Model Decoy (frequently known by the abbreviation LMD) is a fictional android appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. LMDs duplicate all outward aspects of a real living person, with such authenticity that they can easily impersonate a specific person without casual detection. LMDs first appeared in \"The Man For the Job!\", a short story by writer Stan Lee and artist Jack Kirby that ran the anthology book \"Strange Tales\" #135 (August 1965) in which the spy agency S.H.I.E.L.D. created LMDs of agent Nick Fury to use as decoys for an attack by the terrorist organization Hydra.\n\nLMDs have been used in numerous Marvel Comics storylines in the half century since their first appearance, and have also been adapted into other media based on Marvel, including films, television series, animation and video games.\n\nLife Model Decoys (LMDs) first appeared in \"The Man For the Job!\", a short story by writer Stan Lee and artist Jack Kirby that ran the anthology book \"Strange Tales\" #135 (August 1965). The spy agency S.H.I.E.L.D. created LMDs of agent Nick Fury to use as decoys for an attack by the terrorist organization Hydra.\n\nA Life Model Decoy (or LMD for short) is a S.H.I.E.L.D.-designed robot that duplicates all outward aspects of a living person. The owner can see through, speak through, and control everything the Life Model Decoy does. Nick Fury's Life Model Decoys are probably the most common in the Marvel Universe.\n\nIt is designed to function as an exact body double for VIPs. Their design is such that they mimic the subject's outer appearance (i.e., fingerprints, hair, all details of the skin), speech patterns, scent, iris and retina patterns, body language, thought patterns (to fool telepaths), and any other biological indicators. Aside from any invasive procedure and vulnerability to strong electromagnetic pulse, they are indistinguishable from the original.\n\nAs an android, a Life-Model Decoy possesses all of the various superhuman attributes:\n\nA number of Life Model Decoys with simple numerical designations have appeared in storylines. These include:\n\nA number of Life Model Decoys have also been depicted impersonating specific characters. These include:\n\n\nIn the alternate timeline of the \"Heroes Reborn\" storyline, Captain America is brainwashed into believing that he is a civilian living in the suburbs. As part of this ruse, his wife and son are LMDs assigned to protect him. Nick Fury also used a Captain America LMD during secret missions.\n\nThe android protagonists from the 2005 miniseries \"Livewires\" are built using LMD technology and Mannite technology. The main antagonists of the series are revealed to be rogue Nick Fury LMDs as well.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103308", "title": "United Aircraft", "text": "United Aircraft\n\nThe United Aircraft Corporation was an American aircraft manufacturer formed by the break-up of United Aircraft and Transport Corporation in 1934. In 1975, the company became United Technologies.\n\nThe Air Mail scandal of the early 1930s resulted in a rebuilt air mail system, under the Air Mail Act of 1934, in which carriers and their equipment manufacturers (e.g., of airframes and engines) could no longer be owned by the same company. The United Aircraft and Transport Corporation was broken up as a result of this new law. The corporation's airline interests went on to become United Airlines. Its manufacturing interests east of the Mississippi River—Pratt & Whitney, Chance Vought, and Sikorsky—remained together as the new United Aircraft Corporation, headquartered in Hartford with Frederick Rentschler, founder of Pratt & Whitney, as president. All manufacturing interests west of the Mississippi became part of a revived Boeing Aircraft.\n\nThe latter half of the 1930s saw military procurement buildups around the world as governments foresaw possible war on the horizon. United Aircraft sold to both the United States Army and the United States Navy, but the Navy's requirements for carrier-based aircraft, with maximized power-to-weight ratios for minimized takeoff runway length, were always more in tune with the specialties of United's subsidiaries (Pratt & Whitney, Chance Vought, and Sikorsky).\n\nUnited Aircraft became a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average on March 4, 1939, when United Aircraft and AT&T were added to replace Nash Motors and International Business Machines. United Aircraft, subsequently known as United Technologies, has remained a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average since that time.\n\nFor the subsidiaries of United Aircraft, and for countless other manufacturing firms, World War II was an exercise in how to attempt to meet limitless demand for production (as well as for R&D). The U.S. government encouraged corporations to build up their physical plant, but the corporations knew that there would be a postwar glut of overcapacity if they did so. In many cases a compromise was reached in which the government paid partially or fully for the expansions in the form of tax breaks and accelerated depreciation.\n\nUnited Aircraft ranked sixth among United States corporations in the value of wartime production contracts. At the close of the war, jet engines and helicopters were both big new things whose coming growth many companies hoped to get in on. United Aircraft entered both industries, via Pratt & Whitney and Sikorsky, respectively.\n\nPratt & Whitney feared the head start that Rolls Royce and General Electric would have in jets, based on their jet programs during the war and the late 1940s. But its jet team, led by Leonard S. Hobbs, successfully developed the Pratt & Whitney J57, which, being the most powerful jet engine on the market for some years, brought Pratt & Whitney profitability in the jet field.\n\nVought was spun off as an independent business in 1954. Rentschler died two years later.\n\nThe 1960s brought new challenges, from more complex technology and bigger, more expensive aircraft to more mature markets with stiffer competition from GE, Rolls Royce, and SNECMA. The competitions for the requested aircraft that would become the Lockheed C-5 Galaxy and the Boeing 747 were some of the financially riskier episodes. Pratt & Whitney ended up building the engines for the 747, producing the Pratt & Whitney JT9D, but the program was rocky. For several years Boeing and Pratt & Whitney struggled with an aircraft that was too heavy and underpowered. Eventually, after a lot of continued development work, the 747 redeemed itself.\n\nOn the military side of the business, the TFX joint-procurement program led to the General Dynamics F-111 Aardvark powered by the Pratt & Whitney TF30.\n\nUAC acquired Chesapeake and Ohio Railway designed UAC TurboTrain to compete in the DOT's Northeast Corridor Demonstration Project. Two trainsets were built in 1967-1968 by Pullman for use by Penn Central Transportation Company and later Amtrak for service from 1968 to 1980.\n\nIn the 1970s the jet engine manufacturers found that their products for the commercial (airline) market had been commoditized to a greater extent than in previous decades. Leaving behind a tradition of mating airframes to particular engines (which linked the profitability of an airframe model to that of its exclusive engine supplier), the airframe builders began offering multiple brands of engines. Producers had to compete on service, warranties, and eventually even by buying entire aircraft and then leasing them to the airlines.\n\nIn 1974, Harry Gray left Litton Industries to become the CEO of United Aircraft. He pursued a strategy of growth and diversification, changing the parent corporation's name to United Technologies Corporation (UTC) in 1975 to reflect the intent to diversify into numerous high tech fields beyond aerospace.\n\nThe history of United Technologies Corporation from 1975 forward is discussed at \"United Technologies Corporation > History\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103318", "title": "Court of Queen's Bench of New Brunswick", "text": "Court of Queen's Bench of New Brunswick\n\nThe Court of Queen's Bench of New Brunswick (in French: \"Cour du Banc de la Reine du Nouveau-Brunswick\") is the superior trial court of the Canadian province of New Brunswick.\n\nThe Court of Queen's Bench of New Brunswick consists of a Chief Justice among 17 judicial seats, plus a number of justices who have elected supernumerary status after many years of service and after having attained eligibility for retirement. This tally does not include the 8 judicial seats assigned for the family court.\n"}
{"id": "2103333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103333", "title": "Cynthia Olavarría", "text": "Cynthia Olavarría\n\nCynthia Enid Olavarría Rivera (born January 28, 1982 in Santurce) is a Puerto Rican actress, fashion model, TV host and beauty pageant titleholder who won Miss Puerto Rico Universe 2005 and placed 1st Runner-Up at Miss Universe 2005.\n\nBorn in the Santurce district of San Juan, Puerto Rico, Olavarría was an expressive and eloquent child. Those qualities made her embark in the world of beauty pageants, TV hosting and modeling since she was a teenager. At age 11, she won her first beauty pageant, \"Miss Reina Infantil\" and became the host of the famous Puerto Rican child game show \"Contra el Reloj con Pacheco\".\n\nCynthia Olavarria attended Colegio La Piedad, a private school in Isla Verde, Puerto Rico, where she was an honor student and member of many school organizations, including the National Honor Society and the Student Council. After graduating high school, she enrolled in the University of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras Campus, where she managed to combine her studies with her modeling career. She graduated Magna Cum Laude in 2004 with a bachelor's degree in Mass Communications, with a concentration in Journalism and Public Relations.\n\nAt age 16, she started out as a model by competing in Elite Model Look Competition Puerto Rico, where she placed third. This served as springboard to develop a long modeling career where she has enjoyed success, achieving over 20 magazine covers and publications in Indonesia, Dominican Republic, Miami, New York, and Puerto Rico.\n\nMany awards have been given to her for her trajectory, including two awards for “Best Female Model” and a recognition as a Puerto Rican “Top Model”. She also received the “International Model Ambassador Award” at the Chicago Latino Fashion Week in 2007, and another recognition as “Outstanding Model of the Year” in the Latin Pride National Awards.\n\nOlavarria's history with pageants started at age 11 when she won her first beauty pageant, \"Miss Reina Infantil\". When she became 16, she competed in Elite Model Look Puerto Rico.\n\nAfter graduating from college, Olavarría was headed towards a master's degree in International Relations as well as a career with Elite Model Management when she decided to temporarily change her path in order to participate in the Miss Puerto Rico Universe 2005 pageant, where she won the crown representing the municipality of Salinas in October 2004.\n\nShe represented Puerto Rico in the Miss Universe 2005 pageant held in Bangkok, Thailand in May 2005, and became the first and only Puerto Rican in Miss Universe history to place 1st Runner-Up until 2019 when Madison Anderson achieved this feat. The winner was Natalie Glebova of Canada. When Glebova was unable to attend the Miss Indonesia 2007 pageant on behalf of the Miss Universe Organization because of Canada's travel ban on Indonesia, Olavarría officially attended in her place.\n\nDuring the course of her reign, she made many appearances on such television programs such as \"Don Francisco Presenta\", \"El Gordo y La Flaca\", \"Despierta America\", \"Cotorreando\", \"Primer Impacto\", \"Objetivo Fama\", \"Premios Juventud\", and \"Premios Lo Nuestro\".\n\nGiven her success in beauty pageants she has been invited to be a judge in several international beauty pageants, along with hosting some of them. Most recently she was a judge for the \"Miss Universe Puerto Rico 2014\" pageant.\n\nAfter finishing her undergraduate studies and returning from Miss Universe, Olavarria began taking acting lessons with actresses Elia Enid Cadilla, Flor Nunez and Sebastian Ligarde and completed the acting program of Hector Zavaleta in hopes of also becoming an actress. Her television debut was as the protagonist of a mini-series called \"“Cuando el Universo Conspira”\" in 2005. Later she made her theater debut by playing a major role as a princess in the child-oriented play \"“La Princesa de los Ojos Tristes”\". In 2006, she appeared in Victor Manuelle and Sin Bandera’s musical video entitled \"“Maldita Suerte”\". In 2007, she landed the protagonist role in the first-ever online telenovela for the Hispanic market, \"\"Mi Adorada Malena\"\", which was produced by Univision and broadcast on its website. Due to its success, it was later broadcast nationally on the network.\n\nIn July 2010 she landed the role of Lucy Saldana in Telemundo's telenovela-thriller \"Alguien Te Mira\". She plays a crazy massage therapist that is obsessed with one of her coworkers and will stop at nothing to destroy his marriage so she can have him. In December 2010 she also played the main role in the music video of Jencarlos Canela's new single, titled \"\"Mi Corazon Insiste\"\".\n\nIn August 2013 Cynthia won a supporting actress award \"Premios Tu Mundo\" for her role as the good natured Diana Mercader in the telenovela-thriller \"El Rostro De La Venganza\".\n\nAs much as Cynthia enjoyed winning a \"Tu Mundo\" for interpreting angelic/good natured roles she also feared the award might typecast her indefinitely in such characters. However, early in November 2014 People en Español magazine announced that Telemundo Studios had cast Cynthia in a stellar villainess role in \"Tierra De Reyes\" a remake of the highly popular Colombian telenovela \"Pasion De Gavilanes\". This time she would be interpreting the diabolical, Isadora Valverde, a dangerous and obsessive woman who runs a drug cartel and who obsesses in a love triangle between actors Fabian Rios and Aaron Diaz.\n\nHer hosting career started at an early age when she became the host of \"Contra el Reloj con Pacheco\". After this, she made multiple appearances as a guest host for various television networks in Puerto Rico and many international events, mainly beauty pageants.\n\nIn the United States, she has been a presenter at \"Premios Juventud\", \"Premios Lo Nuestro\", \"Billboard Latin Music Awards\", and the \"Mexican Billboard Awards\". She has also served as guest host in \"Despierta América\", \"Escandalo TV\", and \"Al Rojo Vivo\".\n\nIn 2007, Univision recruited her to become the official Runway Coach of the hit reality show \"Nuestra Belleza Latina\" which airs on the Univision network. There she held an active role in this position for three years total (2007–2010) while also doing work for other Univision sister networks. In February 2010 she moved on to work for Galavision as a news correspondent and co-host of \"Acceso Maximo.\"\n\nCynthia also worked for Univision's rival network Telemundo as the host of \"Decisiones Puerto Rico\", the Puerto Rican adaptation of the Telemundo's series \"Decisiones\". In 2008, she also hosted a Miss Universe special titled \"“Intimamente con Miss Universo”\" for Telemundo. The one-hour show follows the steps of Miss Universe 2008, Dayana Mendoza, after winning the title.\n\nIn 2007 and 2008, she joined Mexican singer and actor Fernando Allende to host the Miss World Puerto Rico pageant.\n\nRecently she was also the temporary host of Telemundo's \"Al Rojo Vivo\" in November 2010 while she filmed the telenovela \"Alguien Te Mira\". She also starred Mi Corazón Insiste… en Lola Volcán with Carmen Villalobos, Jencarlos Canela, Carlos Ferro, and Ana Layesksa where she plays Sofia Palacio. In 2012 she participated in Telemundo's El Rostro de la Venganza, with Elizabeth Gutiérrez, David Chocarro, Maritza Rodríguez and Saúl Lisazo; for which she won \"Mejor Actriz de Reparto\" (Best Supporting Actress) at \"Premios Tu Mundo\".\n\nEarly in 2014 it was announced that Cynthia will be starring in \"Top Chef Estrallas\", a Latin American version of the reality cooking television show Top Chef that will air on Telemundo with stars competing for their choice of charity.\n\nHer life flashed before her eyes the summer of 2018 after a snake bit her in the middle of a photo shoot in Miami. “They told me the venom wouldn’t leave my body within 12 months… I thought it will leave sooner but it was worse with the months” said sobbing Miss Universe Puerto Rico 2005. \nDoctors had told her “you probably won't be the same person, you will have to use a machine in your leg, so you can be able to walk. \n\n"}
{"id": "2103336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103336", "title": "List of Ligue 1 top scorers", "text": "List of Ligue 1 top scorers\n\nThe following is the list of French Ligue 1 top scorers by season, since the inception of the French First Division in 1932 until the present day. Josip Skoblar holds the record for most goals in a single season at 44. Carlos Bianchi, Delio Onnis and Jean-Pierre Papin share the record for most awards won, with five wins each. The latest top scorers of Ligue 1 are Kylian Mbappé of Paris Saint-Germain and Wissam Ben Yedder of Monaco, who both scored 18 goals in 2019–20.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103345", "title": "White House horrors", "text": "White House horrors\n\nThe revelation of the existence and scope of crimes and abuses committed by Nixon's staff during his presidency, known collectively as the \"White House Horrors\" (a term attributed to Richard Nixon's former United States Attorney General John N. Mitchell), was among the many events of the Watergate scandal. More than 70 people were convicted of crimes related to Watergate; some pleaded guilty before trial.\n\nHere is a listing of much of the criminality involved:\n"}
{"id": "2103349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103349", "title": "Assistens Cemetery (Copenhagen)", "text": "Assistens Cemetery (Copenhagen)\n\nAssistens Cemetery (Danish: Assistens Kirkegård) in Copenhagen, Denmark, is the burial site of many Danish notables as well as an important greenspace in the Nørrebro district. Inaugurated in 1760, it was originally a burial site for the poor laid out to relieve the crowded graveyards inside the walled city, but during the Golden Age in the first half of the 19th century it became fashionable and many leading figures of the epoch, such as Hans Christian Andersen, Søren Kierkegaard, Christoffer Wilhelm Eckersberg, and Christen Købke are all buried here.\n\nLate in the 19th century, as Assistens Cemetery had itself become crowded, a number of new cemeteries were established around Copenhagen, including Vestre Cemetery, but up through the 20th century it has continued to attract notables. Among the latter are the Nobel Prize-winning physicist Niels Bohr and a number of American jazz musicians who settled in Copenhagen during the 1950s and 1960s, including Ben Webster and Kenny Drew.\n\nAn \"assistenskirkegård\" (meaning \"assistance cemetery\") is originally a generic term in Danish, used to refer to cemeteries which were laid out to assist existing burial sites, usually those located in urban settings in connection with churches, and therefore a number of cemeteries by the same name are found around Denmark.\n\nThe cemetery is one of five run by Copenhagen Municipality; the other cemeteries are Vestre Cemetery, Brønshøj Cemetery, Sundby Cemetery, and Bispebjerg Cemetery.\n\nIn Medieval times intramural interment was the rule although outdoor graveyards gradually became more common. In 1666 the Naval Holmen Cemetery was moved from its original location at Holmen Church to a site outside the Eastern City Gate as the first burial facility to be located outside the city.\n\nAn outbreak of plague in 1711 which killed an estimated 23,000 citizens put the existing burial sites under so much pressure that up to five coffins were sometimes buried on top of each other. This led to the establishment of five new cemeteries on the periphery of the city, but just inside the city walls, while the military Garrison Cemetery was relocated to a site next to that of Holmen Cemetery.\n\nIn the 1750s the situation deteriorated even further and in a letter of 2 May 1757 the City Council proposed to the Chancellery that a large new cemetery be built for the city's parishes outside the city walls. After some negotiations it was decided to place it outside the Northern City Gate and on 26 May 1757 the new facility was founded by Royal charter. The new cemetery was inaugurated on 6 November 1760. It was enclosed by a wall built by Philip de Lange.\n\nOriginally the cemetery was intended as a burial ground for paupers. In 1785 an affluent citizen, astronomic writer and First Secretary of the War Chancellery Johan Samuel Augustin, made specific requests to be interred at the cemetery, in his codicil stating that \"\"Mein Begräbnis soll auf dem Armen-Kirchhofe vor dem Norderthor seyn, wesfalls ich sehon mit Mr. Simon, der dort Gräber ist, gesprochen habe\"\". He was soon followed by other leading figures from the elite and the cemetery soon developed into the most fashionable burial ground of the city.\n\nAround that time, excursions to the cemetery with picnic baskets and tea became a popular activity among common citizens of Copenhagen. In his account of a visit to Copenhagen in 1827, the Swedish poet Karl August Nicander fondly remembers Assistens Cemetery: \n\nThe excursions sometimes evolved into rowdy gatherings and legislation was passed to prevent this. A commission established in 1805 issued instructions which prohibited the consumption of food or drink as well as music or any other kind of cheerful behaviour in the cemetery. The gravediggers, who lived on the premises, were to enforce these restrictions but they seem to have taken their duties lightly. Legislation from 1813 prohibited them to sell alcohol to visitors to the cemetery. Despite all these efforts, the desired peace and quiet was a long time in coming. For particularly grand funerals, crowds of spectators would gather, and people would festoon the cemetery walls to get a better view. To reduce numbers of visitors, there was talk of introducing admission fees, but this was never carried out.\n\nThe cemetery is still serving its original purpose as a burial ground but is also a popular tourist attraction, as well as the largest and most important greenspace in the inner part of the Nørrebro district.\n\nIt is divided into sections. The oldest part is Section A and features the graves of Søren Kierkegaard and the painter Christen Købke among others. Section D is dedicated to religious minorities, containing Roman Catholic and Reformed graves as well as Russian graves. Section E is the section which originally served under Church of Our Lady.\n\nIn 2003 an old horse stable in a corner of Assistens Cemetery was converted into a small museum dedicated to writer and artist Herman Stilling, a native to the Nørrebro area and mainly known for painting trolls. Apart from the permanent exhibition, the museum also contains an exhibition space for special exhibitions, a picture workshop for children and young people, and a café.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103351", "title": "Belly to Belly", "text": "Belly to Belly\n\nBelly to Belly is the fifth studio album by American rock band Warrant. The record was released on October 1, 1996, through CMC International. The album features ex-Beggars & Thieves drummer Bobby Borg who replaced James Kottak. It is the last Warrant album of all original material to feature Jani Lane on vocals.\n\nThe making of the record was a collaborative process. The members of Warrant got together for one week in November 1995 and one week in January 1996 and wrote songs together. The recording process lasted a further two weeks, and the record was mixed in seven days.\n\nThe record was described by guitarist Rick Steier as a \"concept album\" that follows a rags-to-riches-to-rags storyline concerning fame, fortune and the examination of one's value system once the spotlight fades, Musically, The album bore no resemblance to the Glam metal of the band's past, and also continued the Alternative metal direction of Ultraphobic.\n\nThe first single \"A.Y.M.\" (Angry Young Man) was recorded in one take. During a flight to Japan for shows at a United States Naval Base, guitarist Rick Steier suggested to Lane that he put a twist in the lyrics for the then incomplete song. When the band got back into the studio, Lane re-wrote the lyrics as a \"tongue-in-cheek satirical look at the alternative thing\". The single features a live music video.\n\nThe second single \"Feels Good\" was about the band \"starting from scratch\". Vocalist Jani Lane explained that the song dealt with being free from major label pressure to \"follow up this big hit or that hit\". The band was given complete control to do whatever seemed appropriate to the members, without having to try to please others.\n\n\"Letter to a Friend\" was an idea Lane had about how relationships should end; the parties agree that they don't gel, but that they can go their separate ways without animosity. Lane admits that this was \"wishful thinking\", since all of his failed relationships have ended on bad terms.\n\n\"All 4 U\" features a duet with the girlfriend of the part owner of the studio in which the record was produced. Lane thought her vocals sounded \"a little like Stevie Nicks\" and asked her to perform on the album.\n\n\"Indian Giver\" was released as the third single of the album and was written by Jani Lane after making up with his second wife, Rowanne Brewer following a brief argument.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103368", "title": "Global Mobile Satellite System", "text": "Global Mobile Satellite System\n\nThe Global Mobile Satellite System (GMSS) consists of several satellite phone providers serving private customers. It can be compared to PLMN (wireless telephony carriers) and PSTN (traditional wire-based telephony).\n\nAs of 2008, ranges of numbers have been assigned to four GMSS carriers:\n\n\nIn 1996, the ITU introduced country code +881 for direct international dialing of phones on GMSS providers. (Inmarsat had already been allocated country codes +870 through +874.) The next digit following the country code is allocated (two at a time) to a particular GMSS carrier: \n\nInmarsat is a satellite-based communications provider, but it is primarily a maritime service and is not generally considered part of the GMSS.\n\nGlobalstar usually allocates subscribers with a local number in the country they are based rather than using their GMSS country code.\n\nIridium also uses an Arizona-based access number to call Iridium phones for those unwilling or unable to call the usually expensive GMSS number directly.\n\nThuraya has been assigned +882-16, within the +882 range for International Networks.\n"}
{"id": "2103369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103369", "title": "June 28 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 28 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 27 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 29\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on July 11 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 28th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 15.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2103382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103382", "title": "Dalilah (crater)", "text": "Dalilah (crater)\n\nDalilah is a crater in the northern hemisphere of Saturn's moon Enceladus. Dalilah was first discovered in \"Voyager 2\" images but was seen at much higher resolution by \"Cassini\". It is located at and is 16 kilometers across. Fractures have deformed the south-eastern side of Dalilah as well as the dome at the center of the crater. This tectonic deformation was formed through viscous relaxation. Similar deformation is also seen on a slightly larger scale at Dunyazad crater.\n\nDalilah is named after a character from \"Arabian Nights\", a crafty old crone who fools several men.\n"}
{"id": "2103384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103384", "title": "Northwest School (art)", "text": "Northwest School (art)\n\nThe Northwest School was an American art movement established in small-town Skagit County, Washington and the Seattle area. It flourished in the 1930s-40s.\n\nThe movement's early participants, and its defining artists, have become known as \"the big four\": Guy Anderson, Kenneth Callahan, Morris Graves and Mark Tobey. Their work became recognized nationally when \"LIFE\" published a 1953 feature article on them. It was the first such broad recognition of artists from this corner of the world beyond traditional Northwest Native American art forms, which had been long recognized as \"northwest art.\"\n\nThese artists combined natural elements of the Puget Sound area with traditional Asian aesthetics to create a novel and distinct regional style, particularly in painting and sculpture, with some drawing, printmaking and photography. Tobey, Callahan, Graves and Anderson were all immersed in and greatly influenced by the atmosphere of the Pacific Northwest environment.\n\nSeattle was a common locale which they all shared at points in their lives, and some of them were closely associated for a time with the Seattle Art Museum in Volunteer Park. The town of Edmonds also figures heavily in the NW School, as Guy Anderson's hometown and studio were in Edmonds, and Morris Graves's home and studio were in nearby Woodway. Over time, the influence of the natural setting of Western Washington, especially the flat lands, meandering river channels, and wide open skies of the Skagit Valley, became a unifying aspect of their art. The media most commonly used by the painters in this group of artists were tempera, oil and gouache on canvas. They also used these media on paper and wood. Morris Graves worked for periods in three dimensional forms, using steel and glass and stone, among other materials. Guy Anderson, whose main medium was oil painting, also made works from bronze and had \"collages\" around his home of found objects from beach walks and deteriorating metal which he saw beauty in. These forms influenced his painting.\n\nThe style of the Northwest School is characterized by the use of symbols of the nature of Western Washington, as well as the diffuse lighting characteristic of the Skagit Valley area. The lighting and choice of earthy tonal ranges in the color is one of the most important qualities of Northwest art. Tobey, whose artwork did not include as much natural Northwest subject matter, is identified as Northwest style because of the soft pastel colors which he used, and the dark mist chroma of lighting, with few stark shadows.\n\nThe Northwest artists were labeled as mystics, although some forcefully denied this label. They denied being a \"school\" of art, but they did know one another. Callahan hosted salons in which the others participated. Anderson and Graves travelled together and painted in the North Cascades and elsewhere.\n\nDealers such as Zoe Dusanne, Gordon Woodside and John Braseth of the Woodside/Braseth Gallery as well as museum professionals grouped the four artists together, as did journalists. Their styles showed unifying themes that suggested something unique and previously unseen from this geographic area. A review of the titles of some of the paintings leads to spiritual interpretations of northwest life.\n\nIn addition to the local natural setting and the Asian influence, the Northwest School also shows some influence from surrealism, cubism and abstract expressionism. The cubist influence is shown to some extent in Kenneth Callahan's \"Prism\" and the \"Dark Globe\" (1946) and Tobey's \"Western Town\" (1944). All these artists both loved the pacific northwest and were keenly aware of the larger world of which it was part. Their work was recognized for being both essentially northwest and far from provincial.\n\nMany younger artists around the Pacific Northwest found resonance in how qualities of the region seemed so strongly evident while something universal also glowed in these earlier artists' works. Influences and inspirations traceable to these earlier painters can be seen in work by many contemporary artists. One notable example would be Jay Steensma, who died in 1997. He left numerous moody, misty, \"northwesty\" paintings-some of them titled with admiring reference to Anderson, Tobey, Graves, and Helmi Juvonen. While Tobey influenced the Japanese artist, Kenjiro Nomura, the work of Nomura and Kamekichi Tokita was said to \"foreshadow characteristics of the Northwest School\".\n\nThe works of artists such as photographer Mary Randlett and sculptor Tony Angell relate strongly to the Northwest School. Angell's sculpture often incorporates birds, as did Washington's, Gilkey's and McCracken's work. The flowing and silhouette style of Angell's work closely ties it to McCracken's sculpture. Randlett took black and white photographs of northwest landscapes that often have wonderfully painterly qualities.\n\nThe Museum of Northwest Art in La Conner, Washington is dedicated to the works of the original artists of the Northwest School and their successors.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103388", "title": "Nora (2000 film)", "text": "Nora (2000 film)\n\nNora is a 2000 film directed by Pat Murphy about Nora Barnacle and her husband, Irish author James Joyce. It stars Ewan McGregor as Joyce and Susan Lynch in the title role.\n\nDublin, 1904. Walking down Dublin's Nassau Street, James Joyce meets Nora Barnacle, a young and attractive woman from Galway. Joyce, immediately in love with the young woman, offers to 'show her the city'. Nora coldly states that she has to work.\n\nThe film then proceeds to examine the relationship between Joyce and Barnacle. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103402", "title": "Namatanai", "text": "Namatanai\n\nNamatanai is a town on the island province of New Ireland in Papua New Guinea. It is the second largest settlement on the island and connected to the largest and provincial capital of Kavieng (264 km to the north-west) by the Boluminski Highway. In 2005, Namantanai was estimated to have a population of 1300 people. It is the seat of Namatanai Rural LLG.\n\nDuring German New Guinea, Namatanai was an important station. Today the Namatanai Hotel sits on top of the old German Station house. On 28 January 1943, Japanese troops on the Goya Maru landed at Namatanai and searched the station but found no Australian troops and departed. On 15 June 1943, Chinese man, Leong Cheung, was publicly shot in town. Namatanai has a small airfield with the IATA code ATN.\n\nEvery August the town hosts the Namatanai Mask Festival.\n"}
{"id": "2103403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103403", "title": "On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away", "text": "On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away\n\n\"On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away\" was among the best-selling songs of the 19th century, earning over $100,000 from sheet-music revenues. Written and composed by American songwriter Paul Dresser, it was published by the Tin Pan Alley firm of Howley, Haviland and Company in October 1897. The lyrics of the ballad reminisce about life near Dresser's childhood home by the Wabash River in Indiana, United States. The song remained popular for decades, and the Indiana General Assembly adopted it as the official state song on March 14, 1913. The song was the basis for a 1923 film of the same title. Its longtime popularity led to the emergence of several lyrical versions, including an 1898 anti-war song and a Swedish version that was a number-one hit.\n\nThe song was composed during a transitory time in musical history when songs first began to be recorded for the phonograph. It was among the earliest pieces of popular music to be recorded. Dresser's inability to control the distribution of phonograph cylinders led him and his company to join other composers to petition the United States Congress to expand federal copyright protections over the new technology.\n\nDresser's ballad was the subject of some controversy after his death in 1906. His younger brother, novelist Theodore Dreiser, publicly claimed to have authored part of the song, but the validity of his claim was never proven. The ambiguity of United States copyright laws at the time and the poor management of Dresser's estate left the song vulnerable to plagiarism. The 1917 song \"Back Home Again in Indiana\" borrowed heavily from Dresser's song, both lyrically and musically, and led to a dispute with Dresser's estate that was never resolved.\n\nPaul Dresser, a prominent 19th-century lyricist and music composer, was born in Terre Haute, Indiana. Dresser’s boyhood home was near land adjacent to the Wabash River, the primary internal waterway in the state of Indiana. He later became a traveling musician, comedian, and actor who also composed music for the acts. In 1893 Dresser joined Howley, Haviland and Company, a Tin Pan Alley music publisher based in New York City, as a silent partner. In 1896, after more than twenty years of traveling the country as a performer, Dresser grew tired of the theater and turned his attention to composing music and his music publishing business. By that time Dresser was a nationally-known talent who had traveled throughout the United States. While he occasionally returned to Terre Haute for performances and brief visits, Dresser's songs and letters to his friends often reminisced about Indiana and his childhood home. \n\nDresser officially dedicated the song to fourteen-year-old Mary South, a native of Terre Haute, whom he had never met. The second verse of \"Wabash\" contains reference to \"Mary\", but Dresser told a reporter that the name was \"fictitious\" and used only for \"rhythmical purposes\", and denied that the inspiration for the name came from a girl he once courted in his youth. When asked what led him to write the song Dresser said, \"The same sweet memory that inspired that other Hoosier, James Whitcomb Riley, to sing of the 'Old Swimmin' Hole' ... I was born on the banks of the Wabash at Terre Haute ... My fondest recollections are of my mother and of my early days along this stream.\"\n\nIn the first half of 1897 Dresser began to write the song \"On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away\" in remembrance of his Indiana home. He tended to compose songs over the course of months, usually in private during the evening hours. He refined his songs by playing the melody repeatedly, making changes and altering notes until it reached his satisfaction. It is believed that Dresser began \"Wabash\" in New York City in April 1897; continued working on it in May, when he was on vacation at West Baden Springs, Indiana; and completed the ballad in Chicago, while staying at the Auditorium Hotel in the summer of 1897.\nIt is believed that the song's first public performance took place at the Alhambra Theater in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, probably in June 1897. After \"professional copies\" (printed samples of the sheet music) of the song were released in July, the final version was published in October as part of a series of \"mother-and-home\" songs. To spur interest in the song, Howley, Haviland and Company, the song's publisher, distributed 5,000 copies of the sheet music to singers, musicians, theaters, and other musical venues in the month after the song was released. Restaurants, theaters, and street musicians were paid to play the song, while handbills with the lyrics were distributed when the song was performed publicly to help listeners to quickly learn the song. Using the nationwide network of music distribution controlled by Tin Pan Alley, Dresser's publishing company was able to have the song well advertised, which pushed sales on a large scale. \n\"Wabash\" became an immediate success. One Chicago department store claimed to have sold 1,471 copies of the song in a single day. In its first year, over 500,000 copies of sheet music for the song were sold.\n\nDresser's biographer, Clayton Henderson, attributed the success of the song to the \"perfect marriage of words and music.\" An Indiana newspaper compared the song in popularity to \"Swanee River\" and wrote, \"Mr. Dresser ... has endeavored to perpetuate the beauties of the Wabash as did Stephen Foster that of the Suwannee River, and certainly no song since the latter has awakened so much interest among lovers of a good song, nor has any other American author seemed as capable of filling the void left vacant by Foster. The song is a gem and a welcome relief from some of the so-called popular songs sprung on the public from time to time.\"\n\nOne example attesting to the widespread popularity of Dresser's song occurred in June 1900, when the lighting failed at the Coney Island arena during a prize fight between Terry McGovern and Tommy White. The announcer calmed the panicking crowd of 5,000 by whistling the tune of \"On the Banks of the Wabash\" and the crowd began to sing along in the dark until the lighting was repaired.\n\nBy the end of 1898 Dresser reported that nearly one million copies of sheet music would soon be sold, making \"Wabash\" a \"sensation\", the \"great hit of the day.\" In a newspaper interview Dresser said, \"I can't tell you just how much I have cleared off of the song, but the $50,000 estimate I have seen in some papers is very modest. You see I am a publisher as well as a composer and have a big printing house of my own in New York. I also write the words for all my songs, dictate the circumstances and stage settings for their public introductions, write my own ads, and sometimes sing my own songs. Now what do you think of that for a monopoly. Eh?\" Dresser earned a substantial income from the song, including royalties through the sale of sheet music.\n\nThe music industry was in a period of transition at the time the song was published as new technologies allowed music to be recorded. U.S. copyright laws at the time did not allow music composers to control the distribution of phonograph cylinders or music rolls for player pianos. Edison Records paid popular singers like Harry Macdonough to sing the songs and then sold the recordings without paying any royalties to the composer or publisher of the music. Dresser joined with other prominent composers to seek a change in U.S. copyright laws. In 1902 Dresser met with U.S. senators and the Secretary of State in Washington, D.C. He also submitted papers with the U.S. State Department asking for an extension of copyright protection outside the United States, especially in Canada and England.\nBy 1900 \"Wabash\" had sold millions of copies, becoming the best selling song of its time in terms of sheet music sold. The ballad remained popular during the 1920s, becoming a staple song in many singing acts, including male quartet performances. In addition, J. Stuart Blackton directed a 1923 silent film of the same title that was based partially on the song's lyrics. The song appears in the W. C. Fields comedy \"Man on the Flying Trapeze\" (1935), in which the house owner Fields, two thieves who broke into his house and the arresting policeman sing the song together. The song was also featured prominently in the 1942 film \"My Gal Sal\", the title of another song by Dresser.\n\nBing Crosby included the song in a medley on his album \"Join Bing and Sing Along\" (1959).\n\nThe ballad speaks of the Wabash River, which flows through Indiana, and reminisces about events that occurred there. The song has two verses and a chorus. The first verse is about the narrator's childhood on a farm and his love for his mother. The second verse is about his lost love, Mary. While the subjects of the verses are connected, the narrative of the chorus is detached from the verses as it seemingly reminisces nostalgically.\n\nWithout speaking directly of death, both verses indicate the absence of a loved one, and the narrator's sadness and inability to cope with the grief. In the second verse, the narrator cannot bring himself to come near to his lost love's grave. The effort to avoid the subject of death and the focus on fond memories is typical of songs and societal sensibilities at the time.\n\nThe melody of the song is a memorable tune made easy to learn because of its combination of harmonic repetition and contrast—elements that make music easy to remember while avoiding monotony. The recurrence and dissimilarity within the melody is similar to the patterns in many popular folk songs. Dresser, however, avoided the common 19th-century practice of using a portion of the refrain's melody in the verse. With little formal training in music theory, it is unlikely that Dresser purposefully made any methodical calculations when he composed the melody.\n\nWritten for piano, guitar, and mandolin, the music begins in the key of G major with an \"Andante Moderato\" tempo. The verses follow a chord progression of G–C–G. The chorus transitions to B minor, and progresses as B–E–E, before returning to G–C–G in its final bars. Although the melody of the chorus is unique within the piece, it is in harmonic unity with the verses. An upbeat version played at a \"Andantino\" tempo was also adapted for play by small orchestras and big bands.\n\nA year after the song was published Dresser's brother Theodore, who later became a famous novelist, privately claimed to have authored its lyrics. In 1917, after Dresser's 1906 death, Theodore made his controversial claim public in a newspaper article. Already a controversial figure because of his open support for communism and tendency to make negative comments about his home state, Theodore's claims were ridiculed in many papers and by prominent Hoosiers who dismissed it as a hoax. Although Theodore never retracted his assertion that he wrote the first verse and chorus of the song, he downplayed the importance of his alleged contribution in later years. It is possible that Theodore did give his brother the idea for the song, and may have even authored a portion of the lyrics, some of which reflect his writing style. The line stating \"where I first received my lessons, nature's school\" is a possible link, reflecting Theodore's obsession with nature during his youth and his belief that it held the answers to life, a topic he wrote of on several occasions.\n\nDresser died penniless after his publishing business failed. Known for his generosity, he also had a tendency to overspend and give money to his friends and family. In addition, copyrights to Dresser's music were poorly managed after the Haviland and Dresser Company went bankrupt in 1905. Maurice Richmond Music, who purchased the bankrupt company's copyrights, gave Ballard MacDonald and James Hanley permission to use two bars from Dresser's ballad in a song they published in 1917. MacDonald and Hanley's \"Back Home Again in Indiana\" has since eclipsed \"On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away\" in public use. Their song borrowed heavily from \"On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away\" in the chorus, both musically and lyrically, using far more than just the two bars granted to them.\n\nTwenty-six bars from the last two lines of the chorus are copied almost identically. The lyrics of these same lines, \"Through the sycamores the candle lights are gleaming, On the banks of the Wabash, far away\" is also borrowed from, and changed to \"the gleaming candle lights, are still shining bright, through the sycamore trees\". The first part of the chorus, \"Oh the moonlight's fair tonight along the Wabash\", is also reused and changed to \"When I think about the moonlight on the Wabash, then I long for my Indiana home\". Under Theodore's guidance, Dresser's estate accused Hanley of plagiarism and threatened to bring a suit against Paull-Pioneer Music Corporation, the publisher of \"Back Home Again in Indiana\". Despite lengthy discussions, no action was ever taken to resolve the dispute, largely due to the ambiguous nature of U.S. copyright laws in the early 20th century and the estate's lack of finances.\n\nOn March 14, 1913, the Indiana General Assembly adopted \"On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away\" as the official state song. The song's lyrics and required uses were added to the Indiana Code. The state song was the first official symbol of Indiana, adopted four years before the state flag. In 1925 Indiana General Assembly passed legislation that required Indiana's public school teachers to teach the song as part of their curriculum. That same year the \"New York Times\" reported that 20,000 copies of the song were distributed to the state's public school teachers. The song is often played at major sporting events, including the Indianapolis 500.\n\nAlthough \"On the Banks of Wabash, Far Away\" is Indiana's official song, \"Back Home Again in Indiana\" is more widely used and is falsely believed by many to be the state song. One of the leading causes of the state song's fall into obscurity was a change in its use at the Indianapolis 500 during the 1940s. \"On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away\" is played at the event as the race cars move into their starting positions, a period that receives little television coverage, while \"Back Home Again in Indiana\" is sung just before the start of the race and is broadcast publicly. The change to singing \"Back Home Again in Indiana\" at public events continued in the following years, and it is often played in the place of \"On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away\" at state college football games and other prominent events. In 1997, to commemorate the song's centennial anniversary, the Indiana General Assembly passed a resolution reconfirming \"On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away\" as the state's official song and urged state institutions to make more use of it and return it to popularity.\n\nIn 1898 Andrew B. Sterling wrote a folk adaptation of the song about the Spanish–American War, entitled \"On the Shores of Havana, Far Away\". The lyrics consisted of a verse lamenting the dead from the explosion of the USS \"Maine\", a second hoping to avoid the draft, and a third criticizing and ridiculing the war. The chorus expressed sorrow for soldiers who had to occupy Havana and those who died in the war. Howley, Haviland and Company published the song, giving Sterling credit for the words, but paying royalties to Dresser for use of the melody.\n\nIn 1914 Karl-Ewert Christenson wrote Swedish-language lyrics to the melody of Dresser's song. Christenson titled the new song \"Barndomshemmet\" (\"The Childhood Home\"). The Swedish lyrics describe emigration from Sweden to the United States and was made popular by cabaret and revue artist Ernst Rolf, who had one of his first major hits with the song. A 1970 version of \"Barndomshemmet\" sung by Dan Eriksson reached number one on Svensktoppen, the Swedish hit list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103405", "title": "Browns Green", "text": "Browns Green\n\nBrowns Green (sometimes Brown's Green or historically Browne's Green) is a small area of Handsworth Wood, Birmingham, England.\n\nAdjacent areas include Handsworth, Hamstead and the hilltop area of Sandwell Valley.\n"}
{"id": "2103413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103413", "title": "Jellinek", "text": "Jellinek\n\nJellinek is a Germanized variant of the Czech name Jelinek meaning \"little deer\" (diminutive of \"jelen\"). When used as a kinnui, it refers to the Biblical allusion to Naphtali. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2103423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103423", "title": "Jo Appleby", "text": "Jo Appleby\n\nJo Appleby (born 7 April 1978) is an English soprano from Thornton, Lancashire. She is a former member of operatic pop group Amici Forever.\n\nAppleby was born in Blackpool. She began studying opera, aged nineteen, at the Royal Northern College of Music, where, four years later, she gained an honours degree. She then won a scholarship from the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company before embarking on an operatic career. She spent four years performing with the Glyndebourne Festival Opera and Touring Opera Company, as well as singing at venues such as the Royal Albert Hall and the Royal Festival Hall.\n\nIn 2002 she was signed by Sony BMG as an original member of the opera group Amici Forever. She toured with the group until September 2006 when she left to pursue a solo career.\nSince leaving the group she has toured Australia, Dubai and New Zealand as a soloist with The Morriston Orpheus Male voice choir. In 2007, she was involved in a concert tour of the United Kingdom, and the \"It's Magic\" Christmas concert.\n\nShe married Andrew Rees; they have two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103427", "title": "Marvin Williams", "text": "Marvin Williams\n\nMarvin Gaye Williams Jr. (born June 19, 1986) is an American professional basketball player for the Milwaukee Bucks of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played one season of college basketball for North Carolina before being drafted second overall by the Atlanta Hawks in the 2005 NBA draft. After seven seasons with the Hawks, he was traded to the Utah Jazz. He spent two seasons with the Jazz before joining the Hornets in 2014. In February 2020 he joined the Bucks after spending 5 and half seasons with the Hornets.\n\nBorn and raised in Bremerton, Washington, Williams attended Bremerton High School, where he was a two-time all-state selection and the Washington Player of the Year by the \"Associated Press\". As a junior in 2002–03, he averaged 23.9 points and 14 rebounds and was named area player of the year. As a senior in 2003–04, he averaged 28.7 points, 15.5 rebounds, five blocked shots and five assists. He was subsequently named a McDonald's All-American and earned first-team \"Parade\" All-American honors.\n\nWilliams played a lone season at North Carolina in 2004–05, helping the Tar Heels win the NCAA championship. His tip-in with 1:26 remaining in the NCAA final against Illinois broke a 70–70 tie, propelling UNC to a 75–70 victory. He earned ACC Rookie of the Year honors and was a unanimous selection to the ACC All-Freshman Team. He also earned All-ACC Honorable Mention. In 36 games all off the bench, he averaged 11.3 points, 6.6 rebounds and 1.1 steals in 22.2 minutes per game.\n\nIn April 2005, Williams declared for the NBA draft, forgoing his final three years of college eligibility.\n\nWilliams was selected by the Atlanta Hawks with the second overall pick in the 2005 NBA draft, going on to earn NBA All-Rookie Second Team honors after averaging 8.5 points and 4.8 rebounds in 79 games during the 2005–06 season. On December 20, 2005, he scored a season-high 26 points against the Miami Heat.\n\nWilliams missed the first 17 games of the 2006–07 season due to a broken bone in his left hand. On January 5, 2007, he scored a season-high 24 points against the Toronto Raptors. He tied that mark on April 13, scoring 24 points against the Washington Wizards.\n\nThe 2007–08 season saw Williams average a career-high 14.8 points per game. On January 25, 2008, he scored a career-high 33 points in a 99–90 win over the Seattle SuperSonics.\n\nOn February 25, 2009, Williams scored a season-high 31 points against the Denver Nuggets. Between early March and early April of the 2008–09 season, Williams missed 16 games with a lower back injury. Williams knocked down 55 three-pointers on the season after making just 25 in his first three seasons combined.\n\nOn August 7, 2009, Williams re-signed with the Hawks to a five-year, $37.5 million contract. On November 20, 2009, he scored a season-high 29 points against the Houston Rockets. On December 5, 2009, he had a career-high 15 rebounds against the Dallas Mavericks.\n\nIn early November of the 2010–11 season, Williams missed four games with a right knee injury. Between late December and late January, Williams missed 11 games with a bruised back. On March 27, 2011, he scored a season-high 31 points against the Cleveland Cavaliers.\n\nIn the lockout-shortened 2011–12 season, Williams played in 57 of the Hawks' 66 regular-season games. He missed three games in early January with a sprained left ankle, and five games in mid-March with a hip flexor. On April 22, 2012, he scored a season-high 29 points against the New York Knicks.\n\nWilliams helped the Hawks advance to the playoffs in five straight seasons between 2008 and 2012, appearing in 42 playoff games (27 starts), after the franchise had failed to make the postseason the previous eight years. He was a two-time recipient (2008 and 2011) of the Hawks' Jason Collier Memorial Trophy for his work as a community ambassador.\n\nOn July 11, 2012, Williams was traded to the Utah Jazz in exchange for Devin Harris. He made his debut for the Jazz in their season opener on October 31, 2012, scoring 21 points in a 113–94 win over the Dallas Mavericks. He failed to surpass that scoring mark during the season, recording one other 20-point game on November 23 against the Sacramento Kings.\n\nWilliams missed the first five games and last four games of the 2013–14 season. In February 2014, he twice scored a season-high 23 points.\n\nOn July 21, 2014, Williams signed a two-year, $14 million contract with the Charlotte Hornets. He made his debut for the Hornets in their season opener on October 29, 2014, scoring 19 points 108–106 win over the Milwaukee Bucks. He failed to surpass that scoring mark during the season.\n\nOn February 5, 2016, Williams scored a season-high 27 points in a 98–95 loss to the Miami Heat. Williams totaled 521 rebounds and 152 three-point field goals, making him one of only five players to tally at least 500 rebounds and 150 three-pointers in 2015–16 – along with Kevin Durant, Paul George, James Harden and Kevin Love – and the first player in Charlotte NBA history to do so. His 152 three-point field goals marked the third-best single-season total ever by a Charlotte forward, trailing only Glen Rice's 1996–97 and 1995–96 seasons.\n\nOn July 10, 2016, Williams re-signed with the Hornets to a four-year, $54.5 million contract. On March 10, 2017, he grabbed a career-high 18 rebounds in a 121–81 win over the Orlando Magic. On March 11, he scored a season-high 27 points in a 125–122 overtime loss to the New Orleans Pelicans. On March 13, he tied a career high with 18 rebounds in a 115–109 loss to the Chicago Bulls.\n\nOn January 15, 2018, Williams scored a season-high 21 points against the Detroit Pistons.\n\nOn December 21, 2018, Williams made a career-high seven 3-pointers and scored a then season-high 24 points in a 98–86 win over the Pistons. On January 23, 2019, against the Memphis Grizzlies, Williams passed Rex Chapman for 12th on the franchise's scoring list. On March 8, he made seven 3-pointers and scored a season-high 30 points in a 112–111 win over the Washington Wizards.\n\nOn June 11, 2019, Williams exercised his $15 million player option for the 2019–20 season.\n\nOn February 8, 2020, the Hornets waived Williams.\n\nOn February 10, 2020, Williams signed with the Milwaukee Bucks.\n\nWilliams is the son of Marvin Williams Sr. and Andrea Gittens. He has two brothers, Demetrius and J’Tonn. Williams, whose middle name is Gaye, said about his middle name: \"I was named after my dad. My grandma named my dad after Marvin Gaye.\"\n\nIn July 2014, Williams completed his degree in African-American studies at North Carolina. For nine years, he attended summer school and some classes during the NBA season, studying both after practice and on the road.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103435", "title": "Judy Clendening", "text": "Judy Clendening\n\nJudy L. Clendenning is a Canadian judge.\n\nClendening is a judge in the Canadian province of New Brunswick representing the judicial district of Woodstock, New Brunswick. In June, 2005, she ruled in favour of same-sex marriage rights in New Brunswick, and in November, 2013, ruled in favour of a court injunction forcing protestors of shale gas development to remain 20 metres away from the side of the road where the company is working, and 250 metres away from SWN trucks.\n"}
{"id": "2103443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103443", "title": "Economic progressivism", "text": "Economic progressivism\n\nEconomic progressivism is a political philosophy incorporating the socioeconomic principles of social democrats and political progressives. These views are often rooted in the concept of social justice and have the goal of improving the human condition through government regulation, social protections and the maintenance of public goods. It is not to be confused with the more general idea of progress in relation to economic growth.\n\nEconomic progressivism is based on the idea that capitalist markets are inherently unfair, favoring large corporations and the wealthy. Progressives believe that a fair market should result in a normal distribution of wealth, but in most countries the wealthy earn heavily disproportionate incomes. Hence, progressives advocate controlling the markets through public protections that they believe will favor upward mobility, diminish income inequality and reverse marginalization. Specific economic policies that are considered progressive include progressive taxes, income redistribution aimed at reducing inequalities of wealth, a comprehensive package of public services, universal health care, resisting involuntary unemployment, public education, social security, minimum wage laws, antitrust laws, legislation protecting workers' rights and the rights of trade unions and a welfare state.\n\nThe progressive economic philosophy is typically defined in opposition to economic liberalism, \"laissez-faire\" and the conclusions of Austrian and Chicago economics. Many organizations that promote economic progressivism can be characterized from a range of applying criticism of capitalism to being anti-capitalist and include principles and policies based on Keynesianism, Marxism and other left-wing schools of socioeconomic thought.\n\nEconomic progressivism can also be seen as a potential response to and treatment of social and economic problems such as affluenza, environmental racism, inverted totalitarianism, market fundamentalism, wage slavery, and \"socialism for the rich and capitalism for the poor\" as well as a counter-argument to the culture of capitalism, prosperity theology and rugged individualism.\n\nProgressivism in economics is compounded with the larger political progressive movement that emerged in the Western World during the late 19th century and early 20th century. During this time, the movement and its ideas directly confronted the laissez-faire economics and increasing socioeconomic inequality that was characterised society. The term economic progressivism, especially while describing policies of social welfare, high taxation and general leftist economic measures, finds particular resonance in the parlance of the United States of America compared to rest of the world. Nations in Europe developed social welfare systems as part of communist government policies as was the case with Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Russia, or as concessions to pacify the population from moving further towards the left as was the case with many countries in Western Europe. Meanwhile, less developed countries, and postcolonial nations, in continents like Africa and Asia, developed a tradition of social welfare systems being implemented to aid the population develop across social and economic indices. The development of economic progressivism has been markedly different across different parts of the world.\n\nIn the United States of America the term progressive is often contrasted with neo-liberal free-market ideology. The Progressive movement emerged during the 1890s and 1920s. Within this larger political movement tackling corruption and social inequalities, was the introduction of economic polices that aimed to neutralise the worst excess of capitalism. This era was marked by the growth of labour unions, like the American Federation of Labour, expansion of labour rights, the establishment of antitrust laws targeting major monopolistic firms and industries, and an increase in taxation of the upper class. Progressive economic policies emerged as a response to the of excessive big business power and the concentration of wealth and power amongst a very small fraction of society during the Gilded Age. This period introduced many landmark economic policies, including the introduction of an income tax in 1913; one had the estate tax also introduced in 1897 - first by state of New York , by 1924 estates valued at more than $10 million were taxed a rate of 40%. Following the Great Depression in the 1930s, President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s administration created the New Deal programme. The government become heavily involved in stimulating economic growth through increased expenditure, following Keynesian economic policies of using fiscal policy through government subsidies and investment in various industries like infrastructure, agriculture, and commodities to provide to increase economic output. The Great Depression was marked by massive unemployment and poverty, the New Deal programme provided jobs through investment in many large infrastructure projects like housing, transport infrastructure, civil administration and farming. One had the creation of government departments like the Public Works AdministrationPublic Works Administration to oversee government activity in industry. From then till the late 1960s, with President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society program, there was significant government activity in investing in industries, education, healthcare and general social welfare of the population. In the 1980s during the Presidency of Ronald Reagan, neo-liberal free market economics came back into prominence in government policy. This period was characterised by increasing privatisation in industries, healthcare and education. It was also marked by a decrease in taxation of businesses, and a decrease in government reliance of fiscal policy with increasing use of monetary policy instead. \n\nProgressive economics has made a comeback to the forefront public discourse after the Great Recession of the late 2000s, when people’s dissatisfaction with government policies favouring big business, and the bailout of banks led to the emergence of the Occupy Wall Street movement. Subsequently, Vermont senator Bernie Sanders and his policies of progressive taxation, universal healthcare for all, free higher education amongst others also gained prominence across the country. Sanders who ran for the democratic presidential nominee in both 2016 and 2019 lost out to his rivals in securing the nomination. However, his policies have seen a rise in popularity and mainstream acceptance within the time period. Since then many other politicians from the Democratic Party advocating progressive economic policies begun to gain prominence nationally. Among them are Senator Elizabeth Warren, who also sought to win the 2020 democratic presidential nomination, Congresswomen Alexandria Ocasio Cortez, Ilhan Omar, and Rashida Tlaib. The return of progressive politics and economics in the Democratic party was also accompanied by the rise in prominence of the Democratic Socialists of America. Members of the Democratic Party, like Congresswoman Cortez and Tlaib are also Democratic Socialists members.\n\nEconomic Progressivism in the Europe\n\nProgressive economic policies in Europe have a slightly longer history, and many of the policies are not explicitly termed as progressive politics. In Britain, England and Wales had the English Poor Laws in place since the 16th century. The laws existed under various period undergoing several modifications until the 20th century, when the Liberal Party implemented several welfare reforms across the country. The Liberal welfare reforms from 1906-1914 strengthened labour laws and the position of trade unions, expanded education, introduced a pension system for the elderly, among other things. In Germany, chancellor Otto von Bismarck is created the first comprehensive welfare state in modern industrial society. To curb the influence of socialism and to appease the working-class population, Bismarck employed State Socialism ,and implemented a series of laws during the 1880s and 1890s; these included the Workers Protection Act, the Health Insurance Bill, Accident Insurance Bill, and Old Age and Disability Insurance Bill, all designed to increased the welfare of the newly create German nation state.\n\nProgressive economic policies in terms of the welfare state expanded significantly across Europe in the post-World War II. The countries in the Communist bloc had an ideological imperative to create a welfare state for their citizens. In Western Europe, the strategy of expanding the welfare state was adopted to battle communist influence. This manifested in the domestic politics in those countries. In Germany one had the struggle between left leaning Social Democrats and the right leaning Christian Democrats, while in the UK the struggle was between the Labour Party in the left and the Conservatives on the right. The welfare state and policies like progressive taxation emerged throughout Europe. Scandinavian nations became exemplary in introducing steep rates of progressive taxation and extensive welfare schemes. However, towards the end of the 20th century, the rise of neo-liberal free-market economics led to a decline in progressive economics. Particularly in the UK, where in the 1980s Margaret Thatcher’s premiership saw the dismantling of powerful trade unions, reduction of government expenditure, and increased privatisation. \n\nThe aftermath of the Great Recession saw the resurgence of a demand for a return to increased government expenditure. The Anti-austerity movement that emerged during the Great Recession, saw countries like Greece, Spain and the United Kingdom. Like the Occupy Wall Street movement across the Atlantic, people here started protesting government response to the financial meltdown, which involved cutting down of government spending to manage budget deficits. This involved cutting spending on measures like healthcare, education, and other social welfare benefits.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103444", "title": "A lo divino", "text": "A lo divino\n\nA lo divino () is a Spanish phrase meaning \"to the divine\" or \"in a sacred manner\". The phrase is frequently used to describe a secular work, rewritten with a religious overtone, or a secular topic recast in religious terms using metaphors and symbolism. These types of adaptations were most popular during the 16th and 17th centuries, the Golden Age of Spanish literature.\n\nMarcelino Menéndez y Pelayo, a Spanish literary scholar felt the adaptations were of little note, calling them a short-lived whim of the pious. It took Dámaso Alonso study of their influence on Garcilaso de la Vega's poetry before they were considered significant to the development of Spanish literature.\n\nA lo divino also refers to a style of music that incorporates religious chants.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103451", "title": "Universal Personal Telecommunications", "text": "Universal Personal Telecommunications\n\nUniversal personal telecommunications (UPT) is a special segment of the international telephone number space which has been set aside for universal personal telephone numbers. This service has been allocated country code +87810 and is completed by a 10-digit subscriber number which provides 10 billion unique numbers.\nThe International Telecommunication Union (ITU) introduced this concept in 2001, referring to it as \"global number portability\". However, number portability normally refers to the service of keeping an existing phone number after moving service to another provider.\nThe delegation of UPT was requested by VisionNG Chairman Herwart Wermescher and was confirmed by Counsellor, SG2 of ITU-TSB Richard Hill on May 21, 2002.\n\nThe UPT standards have been developed to allow a UPT number to be associated with any device on any network, anywhere in the world. An individual should be able to enter an access code to make or receive calls on any device and can be provisioned as a global mobile telephone number.\nUPT allows ad hoc sharing of physical devices and is intended to be independent of geography or network provider.\nFrom the +87810 numbering space, operators can offer their customers next generation services - voice, data, email, SMS, web and location-based services - using a single \"number for life\" that transcends national boundaries and traditional ways of thinking about communications.\n\nInitially, UPT number blocks were allocated to VoIP or Next Generation networks but as technology has advanced UPT is more and more been seen as a numbering and addressing solution for Digital Identity and Internet of Things marketplace.\n\nIn February 2016, the ITU approved the assignment of a Mobile Country Code and Network Code associated to the UPT Country Code. \nThis allows for the provision of 10 billion unique IMSI’s for the deployment of Global Mobile Services.\n\nThe UPT service profile is a record that contains all information related to a UPT user, which information is required to provide that user with UPT service such as subscriptions to basic and supplementing services and call-routing preferences. Each UPT service profile is associated with a single UPT number.\nA Name Authority Pointer (NAPTR) is a type of resource record in the Domain Name System of the Internet.\nNAPTR records are most commonly used for applications in Internet telephony, for example, in the mapping of servers and user addresses in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP). The combination of NAPTR records with Service Records (SRV) allows the chaining of multiple records to form complex rewrite rules which produce new domain labels or uniform resource identifiers (URIs).\n\nThe UPT number uniquely identifies a UPT user and is used to place a call to, or to forward a call to, that user.\nA user may have multiple UPT numbers (such as a business UPT number for business calls and a private UPT number for private calls). In the case of multiple numbers, each UPT number is considered, from a network vantage point, to identify a distinct UPT user, even if all such numbers identify the same person or entity.\nIt is a global range delegated by the ITU and comprises 10 billion enum-enabled numbers with the prefix 87810 followed by a 10 digit subscriber number.\nIt is in Tier 1 ENUM DNS registry under 0.1.8.7.8.e164.arpa\n\nUPT environment is the environment within which the UPT service facilities are offered, consisting of combinations of global fixed, mobile and Next Generation networks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103466", "title": "Daddy Lumba", "text": "Daddy Lumba\n\nDaddy Lumba is a multiple award-winning Ghanaian musician with a career spanning three decades. Lumba was born Charles Kwadwo Fosu on the 29th of September 1964 in a village called Nsuta Amangoase in the Sekyere Central District, near Mampong in Ashanti Region.\n\nHis father, Owoahene Kwadwo Fosu, a teacher, died when Daddy Lumba was only a child. His mother, Comfort Gyamfi, popularly known as Ama Saah, was also a teacher. She died in 2001 in Kumasi. Her death was a devastating blow to Lumba as she was literally everything to him. Many of Daddy Lumba's songs, including ‘Anidasoɔ Wɔhɔ Ma Obiara’, ‘Ohia Asɛm’, Ɛmmere Pa Bɛba’, ‘Agya Bi Wua Agya Bi Tease’ were dedicated to her.\n\nHe is married with ten children.\n\nDaddy Lumba's music career started at the age of 16. He was the leader of Juaben Senior High School choir from 1983 to 1984 academic year where Christabel was the music teacher and he completed in 1985. In Juaben SHS, Lumba formed the Lumba Brothers group with his friends Yaw and Kwabena and girlfriend, Theresa Abebrese.\n\nAfter school, with the help of his girlfriend Theresa, Lumba traveled to Germany to seek greener pastures.\n\nIn Germany, he met Ernest Nana Acheampong. Nana had already formed a group called talking dreams with a white man. The only thing Lumba knew at the time was gospel music, and he has credited Nana Acheampong for introducing him to highlife music.\n\nThey formed another group called Lumba Brothers, the same name as his first group when he was in Juaben SHS.\n\nThe pair planned releasing an album in 1986 but due to financial constrains, the album was released in 1989 with the help of Lumba's wife, Akosua Serwaa, who produced the album. The title of the album is Yɛɛyɛ Aka Akwantuo Mu.\n\nDaddy Lumba, in all, has released 33 albums. The albums include critically acclaimed ones like Aben Wɔha, Awosuɔ, Obi Ate Me So Buɔ, Sika Asɛm and Ebi Se Ɛyɛ Aduro.\n\nHe is currently gearing up for his 34th album, titled ‘Nnipa Fon Na Ɛka Nsɛm Fon’.\n\nHe has been consistent with the release of multiple-hit albums since then and has established himself as one of Ghana's most popular singers of the Highlife genre.\n\nHe introduced a future love song master, Ofori Amponsah, through his blockbuster hit album \"Woho Kyere\" (1999). Daddy Lumba's pairing in 1999 with the rising star produced five hits and shot Ofori Amponsah into the limelight. Altogether he has sprung the careers of 13 different Ghanaian musicians.\n\nIn 1999, he won three awards including Best Album, Artist of the Year and the Most popular Song of the Year at the Ghana Music Awards. Before the year 2002, Daddy Lumba came out every year with a hit album.\n\nHis solo career has not been devoid of controversy; one moment he would release a gospel album and the next he would shock people with his provocative lyrics and music videos. He has also faced accusations of skin bleaching. He has however denied bleaching his skin.\n\nHe owns his own studio where he does all his work and also owns machines for mastering, cassette duplication, loading, printing and shrink wrapping exclusively for his works. His music has evolved over the years to reflect the changes in taste and demands for music; he can currently be described as a contemporary highlife artist. Daddy Lumba has won several Ghana Music Awards and other excellence awards and continue to appeal to the young and old.\n\n\nOn August 18th 2018, he was acknowledged with an 'Icon/Legend of Entertainment' award at the Exclusive Men of the Year Africa Awards (EMY Award). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103480", "title": "Samad (crater)", "text": "Samad (crater)\n\nSamad is a crater in the northern hemisphere of Saturn's geologically active moon Enceladus. Samad was first discovered in \"Voyager 2\" images. It is located at 60.3° North Latitude, 4.5° West Longitude and is across. Currently available images are too low in resolution to determine if this crater has been tectonically deformed, but the lack of a prominent central dome suggests Samad has not undergone the level of viscous relaxation of other craters in its size range, like Dalilah or Ahmad. Samad is located near the larger craters Aladdin and Ali Baba.\n\nSamad is named after a Sheikh who guides Musa and Talib to the mountains in the tale \"The City of Brass\" from \"One Thousand and One Nights\".\n"}
{"id": "2103488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103488", "title": "David Smith (justice)", "text": "David Smith (justice)\n\nDavid Duncan Smith is a Canadian jurist.\n\nSmith is Chief Justice of the Court of Queen's Bench for the Canadian province of New Brunswick. He was appointed Chief Justice in April 1998 after serving as a judge of the Family Division since May 1993.\n\nA graduate of Acadia University with a Bachelor of Commerce and the University of New Brunswick with an LL.B., Chief Justice Smith was called to the New Brunswick Bar in 1971 and appointed Queen's Counsel in 1985. He is a former member of the New Brunswick Parole Board and has held leadership positions in the New Brunswick branch of the Canadian Bar Association, the Moncton YMCA, the Moncton Airport Board, the Rotary Club and United Way. He is a former director of Canadair Limited and Junior Achievement.\n\n\nOn 5 February 2016, the Liberal government of Brian Gallant proposed in Bill 21 to curb the Chief Justice's administrative management powers, wherein the Minister of Justice would reserve for the executive arm the geographic placement of Queen's Bench judges. The amendment to the Judicature Act effects that the chief justice cannot designate \"a new place of residence\" for a judge \"without first obtaining the consent\" of the justice minister. Smith stated that he was \"surprised to learn that the minister of justice had introduced a bill subjecting decisions of the chief justice of the Court of Queen's Bench to his consent without any notice to or consultation with that chief justice.\" Bill 21 lapsed when Gallant ended the first session of the 58th New Brunswick Legislature. NDP leader Dominic Cardy implied during a June interview that the Liberals were \"trying to protect a political friend, already sitting as a judge, from being moved by Smith.\"\n\nSmith had made a Freedom of Information request earlier in the year; the request forced by law the government to issue on 27 June a description or summary of the documents in question so that both parties could refer to concrete items. The 54-page summary raised more questions, and caused consternation over the speed at which the bill had been drafted: Gallant's office had begun the discussion of the bill on 24 January, less than two weeks prior to its introduction in the legislature on 5 February. On the same day, Gallant transferred authority over the bill to Stephen Horsman, who was then Minister of Justice. Dozens of emails were exchanged between officials \"regarding urgency\". The Law Society of New Brunswick and the Canadian Bar Association had taken positions favourable to Smith's cause by 4 July.\n\nThe changes to the Judicature Act were reintroduced as Bill 17 on 16 November, shortly after the new session began with a Speech from the Throne on 2 November. Also on that date, Smith's Freedom of Information request to obtain documents related to the identity of the drafters of the bill failed. On 16 January 2017 in a speech to the Moncton Rotary Club, Smith divulged that he had asked the Canadian Superior Courts Judges Association to challenge the Bill in the Supreme Court of Canada. The Gallant government, as of January 2017, refused to provide a specific example of a transfer that they found unacceptable or that they would have vetoed. Smith has only made transfers \"as a result of a vacancy, and as a result of a request by a judge. There was never a judge moved that hadn't made a request to make that move.\" It was looking grim for Smith's gambit two months later; the head of the CSCJA noted that the judicial reference procedure is available in Canada only to executive branches of government. On 18 April, the Board of the CSCJA concurred with its head, and stated that Smith's request \"is not an appropriate role for the association\".\n\nBill 17 passed into law on 5 May 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103490", "title": "Overlord", "text": "Overlord\n\nAn overlord in the English feudal system was a lord of a manor who had subinfeudated a particular manor, estate or fee, to a tenant. The tenant thenceforth owed to the overlord one of a variety of services, usually military service or serjeanty, depending on which form of tenure (i.e. feudal tenancy contract) the estate was \"held\" under. The highest overlord of all, or paramount lord, was the monarch, who due to his ancestor William the Conqueror's personal conquest of the Kingdom of England, \"owned\" by inheritance from him all the land in England under allodial title and had no superior overlord, \"holding from God and his sword\", although certain monarchs, notably King John (1199–1216) purported to grant the Kingdom of England to Pope Innocent III, who would thus have become overlord to English monarchs.\n\nA paramount lord may then be seen to occupy the apex of the feudal pyramid, or the root of the feudal tree, and such allodial title is also termed \"radical title\" (from Latin \"radix\", root), \"ultimate title\" and \"final title\". William the Conqueror immediately set about granting tenancies on his newly won lands, in accordance with feudal principles. The monarch's immediate tenants were the tenants-in-chief, usually military magnates, who held the highest status in feudal society below the monarch. The tenants-in-chief usually held multiple manors or other estates from the monarch, often as feudal barons (or \"barons by tenure\") who owed their royal overlord an enhanced and onerous form of military service, and subinfeudated most to tenants, generally their own knights or military followers, keeping only a few in demesne. This created a mesne lord – tenant relationship. The knights in turn subinfeudated to their own tenants, creating a further subsidiary mesne lord – tenant relationship. Over the centuries for any single estate the process was in practice repeated numerous times.\n\nIn early times, following the Norman Conquest of England of 1066 and the establishment of feudalism, land was usually transferred by subinfeudation, rarely by alienation (i.e. sale), which latter in the case of tenants-in-chief required royal licence, and the holder of an estate at any particular time, in order to gain secure tenure, and if challenged by another claimant, needed to prove \"devolution of title\" evidenced by legal deeds or muniments back up the chain of subinfeudations to a holder whose title was beyond doubt, for example one who had received the estate as a grant by royal charter witnessed and sealed by substantial persons. Although feudal land tenure in England was abolished by the Tenures Abolition Act 1660, in modern English conveyancing law the need to prove devolution of title persisted until recent times, due to a \"legal fiction\" (grounded in reality) that all land titles were held by the monarch's subjects as a result of a royal grant. Proving devolution of title is no longer necessary since the creation of the land registry. There is a requirement to compulsorily register all land transactions on this governmental record, which registration provides a virtually unchallengeable and perfectly secure title of ownership.\n\nAn overlordship came into existence by the process of the lord of the manor granting seizin of the fee concerned to his prospective tenant and receiving from him homage and fealty, the main elements of the infeudation and subinfeudation process.\n\nAn overlord had various rights under the feudal system, including receipt of either feudal relief or heriot on the succession of the tenant's heir. Also the right of escheat, namely to receive back seizin of the estate on the death of the tenant without a legal heir (transfers of estates to third parties by testaments or wills were not part of the early feudal system). The right to the loyalty of his tenant was central to the feudal contract and was enshrined in the infeudation process in which the tenant swore loyalty to the overlord. In the event of disloyalty the feudal contract would be broken and the estate would become forfeit and return to the overlord. This is most commonly encountered in the case of treason where lands became forfeit to the monarch as paramount lord.\n\nThe overlord was bound to protect his tenant, a valuable right for the latter in the days before the existence of police forces and universal access to royal justice, and when armed bands of robbers roamed the countryside. This protection extended also to sheltering his tenant from the arbitrary and predatory acts of other powerful local magnates.\n\nIn the language of English law of landlord and tenant the concept of the feudal overlord persists. Furthermore, in England today in the case of a land-owner dying intestate and without legal heirs, just as in the feudal age, his estate effectively escheats and reverts to the overlord, but in the form of the paramount lord, The Crown, and is disposed of by the Crown Estate. In Cornwall today land is still in theory held from the Duke of Cornwall as lord paramount. In the case of English land escheating situated within the Duchy of Lancaster or the Duchy of Cornwall, it reverts to the overlords the Duke of Lancaster (the monarch) and the Duke of Cornwall (the monarch's eldest son), possibly the only two surviving quasi-paramount feudal lords surviving in England other than the monarch.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103498", "title": "Boluminski Highway", "text": "Boluminski Highway\n\nThe Boluminski Highway is the main land transportation route on the island of New Ireland in Papua New Guinea. It runs from the provincial capital of Kavieng for 193 km down the east coast of the island to Namatanai and beyond. The whole highway from Kavieng to Namatanai will be sealed by the end of 2018.\n\nOriginally named \"Kaiser-Wilhelm-Chaussee\" during the German protectorate, it was renamed in 1921 into \"East Coast Road\". After Papua New Guinea gained independence (1975) the Highway was renamed again, this time after Franz Boluminski who was the German District Officer from 1910 until the First World War. He built a large section of the highway by forcing individual villages along the coast to construct and maintain a section. If a section of the road fell into disrepair the village responsible would be punished by having to carry his sulky with him in it over the substandard section, and then his horse was reharnessed and he continued.\n\nThe quality of the highway was not rivalled on the mainland until the 1950s.\n"}
{"id": "2103505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103505", "title": "Vivien Cardone", "text": "Vivien Cardone\n\nVivien Elisabeth Cardone (born April 14, 1993) is an American actress. She is known for her role as Delia Brown on The WB's \"Everwood\".\n\nCardone was born in Port Jefferson Village, Long Island, New York. Her father, Mark, is a Long Island residential home builder and her mother is a homemaker. Vivien is the second oldest of four children. Her older sister Olivia is also an actress. She has a younger brother named Dallas and a younger sister named Lydia. Vivien was named after Vivien Leigh, her mother's favorite actress.\n\nCardone began her professional acting career at the age of three months in national campaign commercials, for such companies as Pizza Hut, Sears, Pillsbury, Sherwin-Williams, and Prudential. Her first film performance was as Marcee Herman in the Academy Award winning film \"A Beautiful Mind\". Her biggest role so far has been in \"Everwood\", in which she played Delia Brown. She played the role for four seasons, until the show was cancelled in May 2006. She was nominated for a Young Artist Award for Best Supporting Young Actress in a TV series for all four seasons. In 2008, Cardone starred in the film \"All Roads Lead Home\". In it she plays Belle, a 12-year-old girl who has to cope with the loss of her mother from an automobile accident. It stars Peter Coyote, Jason London and Peter Boyle in his last film. She appeared in an episode of \"\" in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103507", "title": "William Raney", "text": "William Raney\n\nWilliam Edgar Raney, K.C. (1859–1933) was a lawyer, politician and judge in Ontario, Canada, in the early twentieth century. He was known for his opposition to gambling on horse racing and the sale of alcohol.\n\nBorn on December 8, 1859 on a farm near Aultsville, Ontario, to Herman and Mary Raney, Raney was descended from Huguenot, Dutch and United Empire Loyalist stock. Raney received his education in a traditional log schoolhouse near his home. He was briefly a teacher at the St. Catharines Collegiate Institute, and then worked for two years as a journalist in the State of Maine (USA) and Kingston, ON. Raney then made a career move, applied to and attended Osgoode Hall and Trinity College - graduating with high honours and a gold medal in law. Raney earned his King's Council (KC) title in 1906.\n\nRaney was a well-known lawyer in the early 1900s and initially came to the public eye through his opposition to gambling on horse racing, against which he authored a series of reports.\n\nHis son, Paul Hartley Raney, a fighter pilot in the First World War, was killed in action, shot down over Roulers, Belgium (then German-held territory) on August 21, 1917. After the War, Raney made a number of appeals to the War Graves Commission to locate his son's final resting place. Unfortunately, no grave could be located.\n\nRaney was initially a Liberal running unsuccessfully for the Ontario legislature in the 1914 provincial election. After the United Farmers of Ontario unexpectedly won the 1919 provincial election the agrarian party — pursuing an unusual matter of principle — had no lawyers in its caucus and so the new government of E.C. Drury approached Raney to accept the position of Attorney-General. He accepted and contested a by-election entering the Legislative Assembly of Ontario as the Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) for Wellington East. He was sworn in as the Attorney General of Ontario on November 14, 1919.\n\nHe became a leading force in the UFO-Labour government. In his ministerial capacity, he set out to abolish party patronage methods in the Ontario Ministry of Justice (which included lists of preferred firms used for government legal work and advertising), and had the administration of the \"Ontario Temperance Act\" transferred to his office. Indeed, he became best known for what has been described as his tireless, 'zealous' enforcement of Ontario's prohibition laws, which brought him a public perception of being a severe, uncompromising character. As in illustration of this, when police and liquor officials were authorized to search automobiles and private yachts for illegal liquor, \"The Toronto Telegram\" observed that the only means of transportation where citizens could be free from Raney's agents were \"balloons and submarines.\"\n\nHowever, one of Attorney General Raney's alcohol inspectors, the Reverend Leslie Spracklin, was tried for manslaughter (days after the pastor's wife was in dangerous proximity to a shooting incident, Spracklin shot and killed a man who was engaged in the illicit liquor trade and was later acquitted of manslaughter). The Government's and Raney's administration of the Province's liquor laws thus came under significant scrutiny. The Government's strict enforcement of the \"Ontario Temperance Act\" served to alienate voters from the cities, who largely felt that the party was too inclined towards rural causes and hostile towards urban issues.\n\nThe return of only 17 UFO and 4 Labour MLAs in the provincial election of 1923 saw Premier Drury lose his own seat along with his government. The Progressives (as the UFO bloc of MLAs had become known) unanimously elected Raney as their leader at a caucus meeting January 20, 1925, following the retirement of acting leader Manning Doherty. Despite the unanimous vote, two UFO MPPs, Leslie Oke and Beniah Bowman refused to accept Raney as leader as he was not a farmer and refused to join the Progressives; instead they continued to sit as UFO MPPs.\n\nRaney led the opposition against the Ferguson government's plan to replace the \"Ontario Temperance Act\" with a \"Liquor Control Act\" which allowed alcohol sales through a government-run Liquor Control Board. It was on this issue that he clashed with Ferguson and campaigned unsuccessfully against the loosening of Ontario's liquor laws as Progressive leader in the 1926 election, which returned only 17 Progressive, UFO or Labour MLAs.\n\nIn 1927, Raney resigned his seat to accept an appointment to the Supreme Court of Ontario, where he served diligently with significant respect and distinction. Raney held the post of Judge on the Court until his death in 1933. A heart attack in May of that year left him reduced in strength, though he continued some judicial duties while regaining his health. In late September, there was a rapid two-day decline ending in heart failure, at 74 years of age. He is buried in Riverside Cemetery in Etobicoke, Ontario. His gravestone, which stands over five feet tall, has its entire top half as a dedication to his son Paul.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103518", "title": "Reginald West, 6th Baron De La Warr", "text": "Reginald West, 6th Baron De La Warr\n\nReginald West, 6th Baron De La Warr and 3rd Baron West (5 or 7 September 1395 – 27 August 1450) was an English nobleman.\n\nReginald was the second son of Thomas West, 1st Baron West (d. 19 April 1405) and Joan La Warre (d. 24 April 1404). \n\nJoan La Warre was the widow of Ralph de Wilington (d. 16 August 1382) of Sandhurst, Gloucestershire and daughter of Roger la Warr, 3rd Baron De La Warr (d. 27 August 1370) by his second wife, Eleanor Mowbray. \n\nEleanor Mowbray was the daughter of John de Mowbray, 3rd Baron Mowbray. \n\nReginald had an elder brother, Thomas West, 2nd Baron West. There was also a younger brother, John, and a sister Joan. His sister Joan married first, Richard Delabere, and second, William Catesby. \n\nReginald inherited the title of Baron West when his brother Thomas West, 2nd Baron West, was accidentally killed at sea on 29 or 30 September 1416, and the title Baron De La Warr in 1427 at the death of his uncle, Thomas la Warr, 5th Baron De La Warr (d. 7 May 1427).\n\nReginald was knighted at some time before 1416, and on 22 November of that year had livery of the lands inherited from his brother, Thomas West, 2nd Baron West.\n\nDuring the wars in France, Reginald was captain of the castle of Saint Lo in the Cotentin in Normandy in March 1418 and in April 1421. Reginald was also captain of the fort of La Motte on 5 December 1419. On 21 June 1427 he had livery of the lands to which he was entitled as heir general of his uncle, Thomas la Warr, 5th Baron De La Warr.\n\nReginald was summoned to Parliament from 15 July 1427 to 3 August 1429 as \"Reginaldo la Warre chivaler\", and from 25 February 1432 to 23 September 1439 as \"Reginaldo West chivaler\". In October 1427 he petitioned the King and Council 'that he might sit in Parliament with the precedence held by his ancestors, Lords la Warre, who had continually attended Parliament since 27 Edward I'.\n\nIn 1430 and 1431 he was in France with the King. In 1435 he was appointed Justice of the Peace for Sussex. On 10 December 1446 he had licence to travel to Rome with a retinue of 24 servants, and on 13 December had similar licence to travel to the Holy Land. On 14 October 1448 he was to have gone abroad 'on the King's affairs'.\n\nWest died 27 August 1450, and was buried in St. Mary's Church, Broadwater, Sussex (now part of the town of Worthing).\n\nWest married firstly, before 17 February 1429, Margaret Thorley, daughter of Robert Thorley, esquire, of Tybeste, Cornwall, and his first wife, Anne de la Pole, widow of Sir Gerard de Lisle, and daughter of Michael de la Pole, 1st Earl of Suffolk, by whom he had two sons and five daughters:\n\n\nHe married secondly, before 19 November 1443, Elizabeth Greyndour (d. 1 September 1452), daughter and heir of Robert Greyndour (d.1443), esquire, of Clearwell, Gloucestershire, by whom he had no issue. After West's death, his widow married John Tiptoft, 1st Earl of Worcester, who was beheaded on Tower Hill 18 October 1470.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103527", "title": "June 29 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 29 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 28 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 30\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on July 12 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 29th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 16.\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2103528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103528", "title": "List of members of the Pan-African Parliament", "text": "List of members of the Pan-African Parliament\n\nBelow is a list of the MPs that make up the African Union's Pan-African Parliament, the respective countries they are elected from, and their political party. The members served during the 2004 to 2009 period.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103533", "title": "George Dinsdale", "text": "George Dinsdale\n\nGeorge Dinsdale (August 14, 1887 in Leven, East Riding of Yorkshire, England – September 21, 1943) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served as a Conservative representative in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1932 until his death.\n\nThe son of George Dinsdale and Harriet Catherick, Dinsdale was educated at Rise, a village about three miles south-east of Leven, and came to Canada in 1904. He first farmed in Ontario and came west in 1906, settling on a homestead at Craik, Saskatchewan. Dinsdale moved to Brandon, Manitoba later that year. He served six years as an alderman in Brandon, Manitoba, and was the city's mayor in 1920 and 1921. Dinsdale was also the owner of Dinsdale Cartage, and was a member of the Salvation Army. In 1909, he married Minnie Lang.\n\nIn Brandon's 1919 mayoralty campaign, Dinsdale presented himself as a \"labour man\", though noting he had opposed the recent general strike in the city. Albert E. Smith, a prominent labour organizer and later a Member of the Legislative Assembly, contended that Dinsdale was actually a candidate of the city's conservative interests. With support from pro-development groups, he defeated incumbent mayor Harry Cater.\n\nAs mayor, Dinsdale presided over sharp tax increases and a burgeoning bank overdraft. He was re-elected as mayor in 1920, but lost to Harry Cater in 1921. Cater again defeated Dinsdale in 1922, despite Dinsdale's popularity among the city's ethnic communities.\n\nDinsdale was first elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1932 provincial election, defeating three other opponents in the constituency of Brandon. In the 1936 election, he was re-elected over Liberal-Progressive candidate H.O. McDiarmid by 770 votes. The Conservatives were Manitoba's primary opposition party in this period, and Dinsdale sat with his party on the opposition benches.\n\nIn 1940, the Conservatives entered into a coalition government which included the governing Liberal-Progressives and two smaller parties. Dinsdale was re-elected in the 1941 election as a pro-coalition Conservative, defeating McDiarmid a second time by a reduced margin.\n\nDinsdale died at home in 1943. His son, Walter Dinsdale, was later a federal cabinet minister in the government of John Diefenbaker. Both father and son used the campaign slogan, \"Has Served, is Serving and Will Serve\".\n\nAnnie Fairhurst published a work entitled \"From Pig-Pen to Parliament: George Dinsdale, O.F.\" in 1949.\n"}
{"id": "2103536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103536", "title": "Expo Line (Los Angeles Metro)", "text": "Expo Line (Los Angeles Metro)\n\nThe E Line (formerly the Expo Line) is a light rail line that runs between Downtown Los Angeles and Santa Monica. The line is named after Exposition Boulevard, which it runs alongside for most of its route. It is one of the six lines in the Metro Rail system, and is operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro). \n\nThe E Line largely follows the right-of-way of the former Pacific Electric Santa Monica Air Line. Passenger service ended in 1953; freight-only service ended by March 1988. Several Expo Line stations are built in the same location as Air Line stations, although no original station structures have been reused.\n\nMetro renamed the current Expo Line as E Line (Expo) in late 2019, while retaining its aqua coloring. When the Regional Connector is complete in 2022, the current E Line will be joined with the Eastside portion of the Gold Line to create an extended E Line, which will be colored gold on maps.\n\nAn independent agency, the Exposition Metro Line Construction Authority, was given the authority to plan, design and construct the line by state law in 2003. After construction of the second phase was completed, the line was handed over on January 15, 2016, to the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority.\n\nThe line was built in two phases; the first phase comprised the section between Downtown Los Angeles and Culver City. Construction began in early 2006 and most stations opened to the public on April 28, 2012. The Culver City and Farmdale stations opened on June 20, 2012.\n\nDesign and construction on the portion between Culver City and Santa Monica started in September 2011. Testing along the phase 2 segment began on April 6, 2015, and the segment opened on May 20, 2016.\n\nThe E Line operates from approximately 4:30 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. on weekdays and until 2:30 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays.\n\nAs of December 2016, trains run approximately every 6 minutes during peak hours, every 12 minutes during middays, every 10 minutes during the evening, and every 20 minutes after midnight.\n\nMaximum speed on the route is : speeds within Downtown Los Angeles and Downtown Santa Monica are reduced.\n\nThe Expo Line largely follows right of way used by the Los Angeles and Independence Railroad steam railroad, built in 1875, which was converted by Pacific Electric to electric traction and operated as the Santa Monica Air Line by 1920, providing both freight and passenger service between Los Angeles and Santa Monica. Passenger service stopped in 1953 and diesel-powered freight deliveries ended in 1988. Local advocacy groups including Friends 4 Expo Transit supported the successful passage of Proposition C in 1990, which allowed the purchase of the entire right-of-way from Southern Pacific by Metro.\n\nMetro released a Major Investment Study in 2000 which compared bus rapid transit and light rail transit options along what was now known as the \"Mid-City/Exposition Corridor\"; construction of the first phase to Culver City began in mid-2006, and most stations opened to the public on April 28, 2012. The Culver City and Farmdale stations opened on June 20, 2012.\n\nDesign and construction of the portion between Culver City and Santa Monica started in September 2011. Testing along the phase 2 segment began on April 6, 2015, and the segment opened on May 20, 2016.\n\nOn June 1, 2019, the northern half of the Metro Blue Line closed (from Willowbrook/Rosa Parks Station north to 7th Street/Metro Center Station). The Expo Line terminated at 23rd Street starting on June 22, 2019. Bus shuttles replaced train service between LATTC/Ortho Institute Station and 7th Street/Metro Center Station starting on June 22, 2019 through late August.\n\nOn August 19, 2019, Metro announced that Expo Line service to the Pico and 7th Street/Metro Center stations would resume with the start of service on August 24, 2019.\n\nThe Regional Connector is an under-construction light-rail subway corridor through Downtown Los Angeles that is to connect the current Blue and Expo Lines to the current Gold Line, and to allow a seamless one-seat ride between the Blue and Expo lines' current 7th Street/Metro Center terminus and Union Station.\n\nOnce the Regional Connector is completed, the Blue, Expo, and Gold Lines will be simplified into two rail lines: a north-south line connecting Long Beach and Azusa (colored blue), and an east-west line connecting Santa Monica and East Los Angeles (colored gold).\n\nIn 2019, Metro began using a renaming system where each rail and bus rapid transit line receives a letter and color. As a result, the Expo Line became the E Line in 2019, and will be recolored from aqua to gold upon completion of the Regional Connector.\n\nThe groundbreaking for the project took place on September 30, 2014, and the alignment is expected to be in public service by mid 2022.\n\nThe following is the complete list of stations from Downtown Los Angeles traveling west.\n\nPreviously, the light rail vehicles used on the Expo Line were maintained at the division 11 yard in Long Beach, California, the same maintenance facility that is used by the Blue Line. However, the new division 14 yard, located east of Stewart Street and north of Exposition Boulevard in the vicinity of the 26th Street/Bergamot station in Santa Monica, was opened with the completion of Phase 2.\n\nCompatible with the rest of Metro's light-rail network, the Expo Line shares standard Metro light rail vehicles (Nippon Sharyo P2020, Siemens P2000, and Kinki Sharyo P3010) with the Blue Line. Metro estimates that it has 47 light rail cars to provide service on the Expo Line under the peak-hour assumption of 3-car trains running at 6-minute headways.\n\nThe Expo Line Bikeway parallels the route of the light rail line, and includes a mixture of bike lanes on Exposition Boulevard and off-street paths alongside the rail tracks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103537", "title": "Hospitality", "text": "Hospitality\n\nHospitality is the relationship between a guest and a host, wherein the host receives the guest with goodwill, including the reception and entertainment of guests, visitors, or strangers. Louis, chevalier de Jaucourt describes hospitality in the Encyclopédie as the virtue of a great soul that cares for the whole universe through the ties of humanity. Hospitality is also the way we treat people, that is the service of welcoming receiving guests for example in hotels. Hospitality plays a fundamental role to augment or decrease the volume of sales of an organization hence every business should master it.\n\nHospitality ethics is a discipline that studies this usage of hospitality.\n\nDerives from the Latin \"hospes\", meaning \"host\", \"guest\", or \"stranger\". \"Hospes\" is formed from \"hostis\", which means \"stranger\" or \"enemy\" (the latter being where terms like \"hostile\" derive). By metonymy the Latin word 'Hospital' means a guest-chamber, guest's lodging, an inn. Hospes/hostis is thus the root for the English words , hospitality, hospice, hostel and hotel.\n\nIn ancient cultures hospitality involved welcoming the stranger and offering him food, shelter, and safety.\n\nIn Ancient Greece, hospitality was a right, with the host being expected to make sure the needs of his guests were met. Conversely, the guest was expected to abide by a set code of behaviour. The ancient Greek term \"xenia\", or \"theoxenia\" when a god was involved, expressed this ritualized guest-friendship relation. This ritualized relationship was codified in the Homeric epics, and especially in the \"Odyssey.\" In Greek society, a person's ability to abide by the laws of hospitality determined nobility and social standing. The ancient Greeks, since the time of Homer, believed the goddess of hospitality and hearth was Hestia one of the original six Olympians.\n\nIn India and Nepal hospitality is based on the principle \"Atithi Devo Bhava\", meaning \"the guest is God\". This principle is shown in a number of stories where a guest is revealed to be a god who rewards the provider of hospitality. From this stems the Indian or Nepal practice of graciousness towards guests at home and in all social situations. The \"Tirukkuṛaḷ,\" an ancient Indian work on ethics and morality, explains the ethics of hospitality through its verses 81 through 90, dedicating a separate chapter on it (Chapter 9).\n\nJudaism praises hospitality to strangers and guests based largely on the examples of Abraham and Lot in the Book of Genesis ( and ). In Hebrew, the practice is called \"\", or \"welcoming guests\". Besides other expectations, hosts are expected to provide nourishment, comfort, and entertainment for their guests, and at the end of the visit, hosts customarily escort their guests out of their home, wishing them a safe journey.\n\nAbraham set the pace as providing 3 things:\n\nThe initial letters of these Hebrew words spell Aishel. (Genesis, 21:33).\n\nIn Christianity, hospitality is a virtue which is a reminder of sympathy for strangers and a rule to welcome visitors. This is a virtue found in the Old Testament, with, for example, the custom of the foot washing of visitors or the kiss of peace. It was taught by Jesus in the New Testament. Indeed, Jesus said that those who had welcomed a stranger had welcomed him. Some Western countries have developed a host culture for immigrants, based on the bible.\n\nJohn Paul II writes, \"Welcoming our brothers and sisters with care and willingness must not be limited to extraordinary occasions but must become for all believers a habit of service in their daily lives\" (Address to volunteer workers, March 8, 1997).\n\nIndividuals are also treated as favored guests in the liberal Catholic tradition. Honored guests receive first parlance, religious clergy second parlance, and very important persons third parlance. Clergy and followers of Christ received parlance and some may have turned away from hospitality, welcoming and serving, since active service requires detachment from material goods, family connections, and physical comforts. Hospitality is a meeting of minds, it is an openness to the familiar and meet to discuss and question the mystery of self, social events, experiences, nature and to God. Any guest should never made to feel or see that they are causing undue extra labor by their intrusion or presence.\n\nIt is always polite to ask about religious convictions. John Paul II said: \"Only those who have opened their hearts to Christ can offer a hospitality that is never formal or superficial but identified by \"gentleness\" and \"reverence\".\" In reference to Biblical scripture as a sign of politeness to always come to the defense and aid to those who give an account of hope and those interested (cf. 1 Pet. 3:15).\n\nChrist expanded the meaning of brother and neighbor to include the stranger, that he or she be treated like a follower with and for hospitality and mutual help, if the believer in Christ or whom may be a messenger of god either needed help, circumstances made it difficult to interpret and being uncertain of whether an individual is a believer in Christ and god.\n\nOne of the main principles of Pashtunwali is Melmastia. This is the display of hospitality and profound respect to all visitors (regardless of race, religion, national affiliation or economic status) without any hope of remuneration or favour. Pashtuns will go to great lengths to show their hospitality.\n\nIslam highly recommends one another to say peace be upon you Assalamu Alaikum to one another as Muhammad had said,\nMuslims are obliged to treat their guest with kindness and peace even prisoners (in war), As Muhammad had said in authentic sources and verses from the Quran\n\nAbu Aziz ibn Umair reported: I was among the prisoners of war on the day of the battle of Badr. Muhammad had said, \"I enjoin you to treat the captives well.\" After I accepted Islam, I was among the Ansar (Inhabitants of Madinah) and when the time of lunch or dinner arrived, I would feed dates to the prisoners for I had been fed bread due to the command of Muhammad.\n\nInvite (all) to the Way of thy Lord with wisdom and beautiful preaching; and argue with them in ways that are best and most gracious:\n\nGood hospitality is crucial in Islam even in business. According to another report, Muhammad passed by a pile of food in the market. He put his hand inside it and felt dampness, although the surface was dry. He said:\n\"O owner of the food, what is this?'\nThe man said, 'It was damaged by rain, O Messenger of God.'\nHe said, 'Why did you not put the rain-damaged food on top so that people could see it! Whoever cheats us is not one of us.\" (Saheeh Muslim)\n\nCeltic societies also valued the concept of hospitality, especially in terms of protection. A host who granted a person's request for refuge was expected not only to provide food and shelter for his/her guest, but to make sure they did not come to harm while under their care.\n\nIn the West today hospitality is rarely a matter of protection and survival and is more associated with etiquette and entertainment. However, it still involves showing respect for one's guests, providing for their needs, and treating them as equals. Cultures and subcultures vary in the extent to which one is expected to show hospitality to strangers, as opposed to personal friends or members of one's ingroup.\n\nJacques Derrida offers a model to understand hospitality that divides unconditional hospitality from conditional hospitality. Over the centuries, philosophers have devoted considerable attention to the problem of hospitality. However, hospitality offers a paradoxical situation (like language) since inclusion of those who are welcomed in the sacred law of hospitality implies others will be rejected. Julia Kristeva (1991) alerts readers to the dangers of \"perverse hospitality\", which consists of taking advantage of the vulnerability of aliens to dispossess them. Hospitality serves to reduce the tension in the process of host–guest encounters, producing a liminal zone that combines curiosity about others and fear of strangers. In general terms, the meaning of hospitality centres on the belief that strangers should be assisted and protected while traveling. However, not all voices are in agreement with this concept. Professor Anthony Pagden describes how the concept of hospitality was historically manipulated to legitimate the conquest of Americas by imposing the right of free transit, which was conducive to the formation of the modern nation-state. This suggests that hospitality is a political institution which can be ideologically deformed to oppress others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103540", "title": "Philip Streczyk", "text": "Philip Streczyk\n\nPhilip Streczyk (25 November 1918 25 June 1958) was a technical sergeant in the 1st Infantry Division of the United States Army during World War II.\n\nStreczyk was born to Polish parents Andrzej \"Andrew\" Streczyk (born 1876 in Austria-Hungary) and Marya (born 1886 in Austria-Hungary). Streczyk was a native of East Brunswick Township, New Jersey. He had nine siblings.\n\nStreczyk quit school in eighth grade to help support his family, working as a truck driver until he was drafted into the U.S. Army in 1940 at the age of 21. Streczyk was able to speak Polish, and used this ability during D-Day.\n\nStreczyk is famous for being one of the first men off the beach at Omaha Beach. He served in E Company, 2nd Battalion, 16th Infantry, 1st Infantry Division, under Lieutenant John M. Spalding. He and his men helped make the breakthrough there on D-Day possible. His platoon landed on the Easy Red sector, and made it to the seawall largely intact, unlike most in the first wave. Instead of attacking up the beach exits, as was planned, he instead helped find and clear a path up the mined bluffs, left of Exit E-1. Once at the top, he attacked the enemy fortifications from the rear, clearing out trenches and pillboxes along Exit E-1 and taking prisoners. He was able to interrogate several of the Ost battalion POWs because he spoke fluent Polish, German, and English. Later on D-Day, he was involved in actions further inland at Colleville-sur-Mer.\n\nFor his actions on D-Day, Streczyk was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross and Great Britain's Military Medal. His company commander later called him \"the greatest unsung hero of World War II\". He saw action in five other major battles during World War II with the Big Red One, including Tunisia, Sicily, and Hurtgen. He was awarded the Silver Star four times. His six theaters earned him six Bronze Stars.\n\nOne of Streczyk's children, Stanley Streczyk, told historian John C. McManus that he did not get along well with Lieutenant Spalding. Ron Streczyk told McManus that \"After D-Day, during the Normandy fighting, one of Tech Sergeant Streczyk's men was severely wounded in a firefight. The stricken soldier's jaw was gone and he begged for death. The sergeant obliged and put him out of his misery. Later he felt guilty about it.\"\n\nStrezcyk continued to fight through Normandy, the Mons Pocket, Aachen, and finally the brutal Battle of Hürtgen Forest. In total, he logged 440 days of combat.\n\nDuring the Battle of Hürtgen Forest, Streczyk reached a breaking point. He \"shook uncontrollably and babbled incoherently\" to the point where he had to be evacuated from the front lines with a suspected case of combat fatigue. His case was bad enough to where he needed to be evacuated to the United States Army General Hospital, Camp Butner, in the United States. In an interview with a journalist during his convalescence, he called his unit \"The best platoon a man ever had\". He was subsequently discharged from the U.S. Army. His Distinguished Service Cross was pinned onto him by General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower on 2 July 1944. Field Marshal Bernard L. Montgomery personally awarded him the British Military Medal about a week later.\n\nStreczyk became a builder in Florida.\n\nHe married Sophie Karanewsky and they had four children.\n\nStreczyk had frequent nightmares and was in persistent pain from the physical and emotional wounds he sustained during his time in combat. This ultimately led to his suicide on 25 June 1958. He was buried with honors at The Church of Our Savior Cemetery (first known as Polish National Catholic Church Cemetery) in East Brunswick, New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103541", "title": "Shared-cost service", "text": "Shared-cost service\n\nShared-cost service is an intermediate level of telephone call billing where the charge for calling a particular international or long-distance phone number is partially, but not entirely, paid for by the recipient.\n\nAs of 2006, countries with shared-cost service include France, Germany (0180x number series), Switzerland. Portugal (808 number series), Australia (13xxxx number series) and the Netherlands (09 number series). Today, other shared cost numbers were in use, like China 400 numbers. In addition, UK Ofcom mandated use of UK 03 numbers for use with customer service applications in 2015. The China 400 numbers became very popular because they can be called from mobile numbers, unlike other toll free numbers in China.\n\nShared cost numbers normally enable long-distance calls that are priced to the caller as if they were local. The difference is paid by the called party. In Australia, for example, the 1300 shared cost numbers are often called \"local call numbers\".\n\nA non-geographic 0345 prefix was once marketed in the United Kingdom as a \"lo-call\" rate, but these numbers are no longer available at the price of a local or national (01 or 02 geographic area code) call. The original 0345 numbers were displaced to 0845, a block of non-geographic numbers which carry a premium of which two pence per minute are paid to the called party. As of 2007, a newer non-geographic series of 03 codes is available for the same cost as calling 01 and 02 numbers, revenue share not allowed.\n\nInternational shared-cost service is known as ISCS or UISCN (Universal International Shared Cost Number). The service has been allocated country code +808. As of 2013, the numbers are only available to Germany, Liechtenstein and Switzerland.\n\nAn ISCS number would allow the calling individual to make a call which terminates in another country, but pay only the maximum rate for calls within their country (the national rate, which is not defined in all countries). The portion of the total call charges in excess of the caller's national rate are billed to the recipient.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103544", "title": "Joe Smith (basketball)", "text": "Joe Smith (basketball)\n\nJoseph Leynard Smith (born July 26, 1975) is an American former professional basketball player who played at power forward position for 12 teams of the National Basketball Association (NBA) during his 16-year career.\n\nBorn and raised in Norfolk, Virginia, Smith was the College Player of the Year at Maryland in 1995 and the No. 1 pick of that season's NBA draft, picked by the Golden State Warriors. He was named to the 1995–96 All-Rookie team. Smith was mobile throughout his career, as he was one of the most traded players in league history. In 1998, Smith was traded to the Philadelphia 76ers; he then played for the Minnesota Timberwolves (with a midway pitstop for the Detroit Pistons) until 2003. He later played for the Milwaukee Bucks, the Denver Nuggets, the 76ers again, the Chicago Bulls, the Oklahoma City Thunder, the Cleveland Cavaliers, the Atlanta Hawks, the New Jersey Nets, and the Los Angeles Lakers.\n\nSmith attended Maury High School and played at the University of Maryland. In the 1995 NBA draft, Smith was selected by the Golden State Warriors as the first overall pick, before fellow power forwards Kevin Garnett, Antonio McDyess and Rasheed Wallace, as well as guard Jerry Stackhouse. Smith was named to the NBA All-Rookie First Team for the 1995–96 season and finished third in the Rookie of the Year voting to Damon Stoudamire and Arvydas Sabonis.\n\nJoe Smith would play two-and-a-half years for the Warriors before being traded to the Philadelphia 76ers with Brian Shaw for Clarence Weatherspoon and Jim Jackson midway through the 1997–98 season. The trade was engineered by Golden State as Smith had made clear his desire to return to the east coast, and he was approaching free agency (halfway through the final year of his 3-year rookie contract).\n\nSmith's statistics declined immediately after the trade, and never fully recovered.\n\nDespite a drop in production, Smith was seen still as a hot commodity in the free agency blitz that followed the strike in late 1998. In what seemed at the time like a bizarre move, Smith signed for very little money with the Minnesota Timberwolves. For the next two years, Smith played very productively at small forward alongside All-Star Kevin Garnett.\n\nFollowing the 1999–2000 season, it was discovered that Smith was involved in a salary cap-evading scandal involving Timberwolves owner Glen Taylor and general manager Kevin McHale. Smith was allegedly promised a future multimillion-dollar deal if he signed with the team for below market value, allowing the team to make some additional player moves in the short term. As part of the deal, Smith signed three one-year contracts for less than $3 million apiece, allowing the Timberwolves to retain his \"Bird rights\" and exceed the cap to re-sign him. At the end of the last one-year contract, Smith could have signed a new long-term contract that would have paid as much as $86 million.\n\nThe beginning of the end for the illicit deal came when Smith's agent, Andrew Miller, left the sports marketing firm helmed by Eric Fleisher and retained Smith and Garnett as clients. Fleisher sued, and details of the illegal contract came to light in discovery. NBA Commissioner David Stern severely punished the Timberwolves in response. He fined the team $3.5 million and voided all three short-term contracts—and with them, Smith's \"Bird rights.\" He also barred Taylor from having any role in the Timberwolves' operations until August 31, 2001, and forced McHale to take an unpaid leave of absence through July 31, 2001. More seriously in the long run, Stern stripped the Timberwolves of their first-round draft picks in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 (though the 2003 pick was ultimately returned).\n\nThe move hurt the Timberwolves in the long run, as while the team still found success, the lack of draft picks denied them a chance to add more depth behind Garnett. This set the team up for their eventual failure in the mid-2000s, from which the franchise has never really recovered. Since advancing to the Western Conference finals in 2004, the Wolves have tallied only two winning seasons out of fifteen.\n\nJoe Smith was released by the Timberwolves and signed with the Detroit Pistons for the 2000–01 season as a backup. Smith produced good numbers for the Pistons and, at the end of the season, he re-signed with the Timberwolves where he played for two more seasons.\n\nFor the next three seasons Smith played for the Milwaukee Bucks. Prior to the 2006–07 season, Smith moved on to the Nuggets, where he only played in 11 games before being traded, along with Andre Miller, back to the 76ers for Allen Iverson. Despite being considered an add-in on the deal, Smith averaged over 25 minutes per game with the 76ers, during the team's ultimately unsuccessful second-half battle to make the playoffs. For the 2007–08 season, Smith signed with the Chicago Bulls. Smith averaged over 11 points and 5 rebounds per game for the Bulls, but the team managed only 33 wins the whole season. Smith was traded in a three team deal at the trade deadline to the Cleveland Cavaliers.\n\nOn August 13, 2008, Smith was traded to the Oklahoma City Thunder in a three-team, six-player deal involving the Thunder, the Milwaukee Bucks, and the Cleveland Cavaliers that sent Milwaukee's Mo Williams to Cleveland, Smith and Milwaukee's Desmond Mason to Oklahoma City, and Cleveland's Damon Jones and Oklahoma City's Luke Ridnour and Adrian Griffin to Milwaukee.\n\nThe Thunder traded Smith to the New Orleans Hornets along with Chris Wilcox and draft rights to DeVon Hardin on February 17, 2009 for Tyson Chandler but on February 18, 2009 the trade was rescinded after Chandler failed a physical with Oklahoma City.\n\nOn March 1, 2009, the Thunder bought out the remainder of Smith's contract and released him. Two nights later, he agreed to terms to rejoin the Cavaliers.\n\nOn August 25, 2009, he signed a one-year contract with the Atlanta Hawks. On March 17, 2010, Smith became the 92nd player in NBA history to reach 1,000 games played, in a victory over the New Jersey Nets.\n\nOn September 10, 2010, Smith signed a deal with the New Jersey Nets.\n\nOn December 15, 2010, Smith was traded to the Los Angeles Lakers in a three-team trade involving the Nets and Houston Rockets. On January 2, 2011, Smith made his debut for the Lakers. Two days later, he scored his first points as a member of the team.\n\nSmith wound up participating in one of the Phoenix Suns' pre-draft practices on June 9, 2015 as someone to help out center Alex Len during practice. He was initially considered a candidate to take on one of the Suns' player development coaching roles, but he was ultimately not hired for the position.\n\nSmith continues to coach in the greater Atlanta area with the private coaching service, CoachUp.\n\n\nSmith has recorded a solo rap album under the pseudonym 'Joe Beast'. Included on the album are tracks titled \"Murda Kapital\" and \"I Does This\". The album was produced in Oklahoma City, by Tommy Switch and Lorin Roberts, while Smith was playing for the Oklahoma City Thunder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103545", "title": "Musa (crater)", "text": "Musa (crater)\n\nMusa is a crater in the northern hemisphere of Saturn's moon Enceladus. Musa was first seen in \"Voyager 2\" images. It is located at 72.4° North Latitude, 17.6° West Longitude and is 25 kilometers across. Musa is located North of Aladdin. A large, dome-like structure occupies the interior of the crater, suggesting the crater has undergone significant viscous relaxation. From Voyager 2 images, it also appears that Musa is superimposed on an older crater that formed just to the south.\n\nMusa is named after a character from \"Arabian Nights\". He goes to get the vessels that contain Jinni in \"The City of Brass\".\n"}
{"id": "2103549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103549", "title": "Tsakane Valentine Maswanganyi", "text": "Tsakane Valentine Maswanganyi\n\nTsakane Valentine Maswanganyi (born 14 February 1979) is a South African classical soprano who has an active international performance career. She first came to public notice as a member of the world-famous opera band Amici Forever. She has since appeared in concerts and operas at major performance venues internationally.\n\nMaswanganyi was born and grew up in a township in Soweto, where she lived with her grandparents for the first eight years of her life. Her grandmother worked as a schoolteacher and her grandfather was a priest. At that time South Africa was still segregated under the laws of apartheid. Maswanganyi stated of that experience, \"I'd say my family had the middle-class black person's life in Soweto – which is different from the middle-class person's life in the white community. Soweto has a different spirit. There used to be shootings, but I didn't experience that directly. Sometimes the army would come by in cars and let off tear gas. We'd be playing in the garden and suddenly you'd have to get inside and lock the doors. Sometimes the police would come and start knocking and bashing doors in for no reason. In those days, people were not allowed to have visitors – even your cousins or family – you'd have to have some kind of permission to have people visit you.\"\n\nAt eight years old, Maswanganyi moved to Giyani in northern South Africa to live with her parents. She remained there through her teenage years. While there she attended high school for a few years at Risinga High School, but the Bantu school system did not provide any lessons in music to their pupils. She was, however, an active member of her church choir which was directed by her mother and performed a cappella music in the African choral tradition. As a result, Maswanganyi had very little exposure to classical music and was unable to read music when she entered University of Pretoria with the aspirations of pursuing a degree in music. Her lack of experience prevented her from being accepted as a music major. However, a one-year \"bridge\" course for music at the university enabled her to supplement her lack of musical knowledge and eventually join the program.\n\nIn her fourth and final year at the University of Pretoria, Maswanganyi began performing in the opera chorus at the State Theatre in Pretoria. Following graduation, she continued her operatic training at the Pretoria Technikon for three years. She portrayed the title role in a student production of Emmerich Kálmán's \"Gräfin Mariza\" during her first year in the program. Her performance led to an invitation to reprise the role for her professional opera debut with the Roodepoort City Opera. Other opportunities soon followed, including recitals given for Nelson Mandela and Thabo Mbeki and a performance for the United Nations delegates at the Earth Summit 2002 in Johannesburg.\n\nAfter completing her studies at the Pretoria Technikon, Maswanganyi sang the role of Maria in a performance of \"West Side Story\" for Spier Opera Company in Cape Town. Soon after she helped form Amici Forever with which she released two successful albums, \"The Opera Band\" (2004) and \"Defined\" (2005). The group also toured Australia and New Zealand in 2006 and the United Kingdom in both 2006 and 2007.\n\nMaswanganyi is also active as a solo artist on both the concert and opera stages. She has given recitals for Presidents Thabo Mbeki and Nelson Mandela. Some of her operatic roles are Musetta (\"La bohème\"), Valencienne (\"The Merry Widow\"), Amelia (\"Amelia al Ballo\"), Arminda (\"La finta giardiniera\") and Contessa Ceprano (\"Rigoletto\"). Some highlights of her career include the title role in \"Carmen Jones\" with the London Philharmonic at Royal Festival Hall and Bess in \"Porgy and Bess\" at the Cape Town Opera, Deutsche Oper Berlin, and Norwegian National Opera. In April 2011, she portrayed the title role in the world premiere of Bongani Ndodana-Breen's \"Winnie: The Opera\" at the State Theatre in Pretoria.\n\nMaswanganyi currently resides in Italy where she is a voice student of mezzo-soprano Nadiya Petrenko.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103557", "title": "Geoffrey Kloske", "text": "Geoffrey Kloske\n\nGeoffrey Kloske (born 1969) is the vice president and publisher of Riverhead Books, a division of Penguin Group. He served as vice president and executive editor of Simon & Schuster from 1998 to 2006. Previously, he was an editor at Little, Brown and Company from 1992 to 1996. He has edited authors such as David Sedaris, Dave Eggers, Bob Dylan, Sarah Vowell, Jon Ronson, Nick Hornby, James McBride (writer), and Mark Kurlansky.\n\nHe was named \"It\" Editor by \"Entertainment Weekly\" and one of \"35 under 35\" by \"New York Magazine\" in 2001.\n\nHe attended Kenyon College from 1987 to 1991. After graduating he got his first job in the publishing industry as an editorial assistant at St. Martin's Press and worked with them from 1991 to 1992. He currently resides in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nIn 2005 he published a children's book, \"Once Upon a Time, the End (Asleep in 60 seconds)\", with illustrator Barry Blitt. The book was awarded a National Parenting Publications Award as well as an award from \"Publishers Weekly\".\n\n\"Once Upon a Time, the End (Asleep in 60 Seconds)\" (2005), with Barry Blitt, Atheneum Books for Young Readers, 2005, \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103568", "title": "Frankley Water Treatment Works", "text": "Frankley Water Treatment Works\n\nSevern Trent Water's Frankley Water Treatment Works at Frankley, Birmingham, England, supplies drinking water to Birmingham and the surrounding area. The plant treats water from the Elan Valley in Wales, which arrives at Frankley Reservoir by gravity feed along the Elan aqueduct with a gradient of 1 in 2,300.\n"}
{"id": "2103570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103570", "title": "Dan Gadzuric", "text": "Dan Gadzuric\n\nDaniel Gadzuric (born February 2, 1978) is a Dutch former professional basketball player.\n\nGadzuric, a center, attended preparatory school at The Governor's Academy in Byfield, Massachusetts, before playing college basketball for the Bruins at University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA).\n\nGadzuric was drafted by the Milwaukee Bucks during the 2002 NBA Draft.\n\nOn June 22, 2010, Gadzuric and Charlie Bell were traded to the Golden State Warriors for Corey Maggette after spending eight years with the Bucks.\n\nOn February 23, 2011, Gadzuric was traded to the New Jersey Nets along with Brandan Wright in exchange for Troy Murphy and a second round pick.\n\nIn October 2011, he signed with the Jiangsu Dragons in China.\n\nHe was signed by the New York Knicks on April 20, 2012.\n\nOn July 16, 2012, Gadzuric, Jared Jeffries, the rights to Giorgos Printezis and Kostas Papanikolaou and a 2016 second round pick were traded to the Portland Trail Blazers for Kurt Thomas and Raymond Felton.\n\nOn July 19, 2012, Gadzuric was waived by the Portland Trail Blazers. In September 2012, he joined the Philadelphia 76ers for their training camp. However, he did not make their final roster.\n\nIn February 2013, he joined the Marinos de Anzoátegui of the Venezuelan Liga Profesional de Baloncesto (LPB). With Marinos, he went on to lose the LPB finals to Cocodrilos de Caracas after a seven-game series.\n\nOn September 27, 2013, he signed with the Los Angeles Lakers. However, he was waived on October 9.\n\nGadzuric played for the . He made his debut on December 26, 1997, in an exhibition game against at the Haarlem Basketball Week. He went scoreless in 10 minutes of play, and it took ten years until he played another game with the Netherlands. In 2011, he played in another friendly game at the EuroJam 2011 tournament. Gadzuric never played in any FIBA official games for his national team.\n\nGadzuric's mother is from Serbia, and his father is from St. Vincent and the Grenadines.\n\nGadzuric was named to the McDonald's All-American Team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103573", "title": "Menil Collection", "text": "Menil Collection\n\nThe Menil Collection, located in Neartown Houston, Texas, refers either to a museum that houses the private art collection of founders John de Menil and Dominique de Menil, or to the collection itself of approximately 17,000 paintings, sculptures, prints, drawings, photographs and rare books.\n\nWhile the bulk of the collection is made up of a once-private collection, Menil Foundation, Inc. is a tax-exempt, nonprofit, public charity corporation formed under Section 501(c)3 of the Internal Revenue Code. Additionally the Menil receives public funds granted by the City of Houston, the State of Texas, and the federal government through the National Endowment for the Arts.\n\nThe museum's holdings are diverse, including early to mid-twentieth century works of Yves Tanguy, René Magritte, Max Ernst, Man Ray, Marcel Duchamp, Henri Matisse and Pablo Picasso, among others. The museum also maintains an extensive collection of pop art and contemporary art from Jackson Pollock, Andy Warhol, Mark Rothko, Robert Rauschenberg, Vija Celmins and Cy Twombly, Jr., among others. Also included in the museum's permanent collection are antiquities and works of Byzantine, Medieval and tribal art.\n\nThe Renzo Piano-designed museum opened to the public in June 1987. It is governed by The Menil Foundation, Incorporated, a non-profit charitable corporation established in 1954 whose stated purpose was to promote understanding and culture, primarily through the arts. Initially, the Foundation also pursued land banking to stabilize the neighborhood surrounding the museum, and structured the administration and operations of the collection. With Dominique de Menil (a member of the Schlumberger family) serving as president, early board members included the Menils' son Francois, daughter Philippa Pellizzi, Malcolm McCorquodale, Edmund Snow Carpenter, Miles Rudolph Glaser, and Mickey Leland. Dominique de Menil ran the museum until her death in December 1997.\n\nThe museum campus has grown to include two satellite galleries to the main building: Cy Twombly Gallery (also designed by Piano) and The Dan Flavin Installation at Richmond Hall, which houses Dominique de Menil's last commission (a series of three site-specific installations by Dan Flavin that were installed in 1998). Two other buildings founded by the de Menils, but now operating as independent foundations, complete the campus: The Byzantine Fresco Chapel and the Rothko Chapel.\n\nThe Menil Foundation began buying bungalow style homes in the area in the 1960s, painting each the same shade of gray to establish a commonality. When the museum building was constructed, it was painted what has become known as \"Menil gray\" to coordinate with the bungalows. Though subtle, the result is a neighborhood that feels aesthetically unified.\n\nIn 2013, the landscape architect Michael Van Valkenburgh was appointed to enhance and expand the Menil Collection’s 30-acre campus. The master site plan, by David Chipperfield Architects, calls for the creation of additional green space and walkways; a cafe; and new buildings for art.\n\nThe Menil Collection is open to the public, and admission is free. The Museum is open Wednesday through Sunday 11 am to 7 pm. It is located near the University of St. Thomas in the Neartown area of Houston.\n\nThe Rothko Chapel, built in 1971, is an interfaith chapel commissioned by the de Menils. Each year, it hosts more than 60,000 visitors from as many as 85 countries around the world. The entrance-way contains holy books from various religious traditions that may be used in the chapel. The space is sky-lit, with kneeling mats, prayer benches, and meditation cushions. Fourteen canvases by Russian-born American painter Mark Rothko hang in the interior. The Rothko Chapel is an independent, non-profit organization. In 2001 the Chapel was listed in the National Register of Historic Places. It is also a featured entry in National Geographic's book \"Sacred Places of a Lifetime: 500 of the World's Most Peaceful and Powerful Destinations\", published in 2009.\n\nSouth of the entrance is a reflecting pool with the sculpture \"Broken Obelisk\" by Barnett Newman, installed in memory of Martin Luther King, Jr.\n\nLocated in a separate building near the main collection, the Byzantine Fresco Chapel formerly housed two 13th century Byzantine church frescoes, an apse semi-dome of the Virgin Panagia and a dome featuring a depiction of Christ known as Christ Pantocrator. After having been removed from a church in Lysi in Turkish-occupied North Cyprus by the illegal art trade, they were recovered during the 1980s. According to the museum, they were the only such frescoes in the Americas. They were held at the museum by agreement with their owners, the Church of Cyprus.\n\nIn September 2011 the Menil Collection announced that the frescoes would be permanently returned to Cyprus in February 2012, an example of art repatriation. In January 2015, the Menil disclosed its plans to reuse the former consecrated chapel space as a site for long-term contemporary installation work. The first exhibition in the reopened space is \"The Infinity Machine,\" a new work commissioned by the Menil by Janet Cardiff and George Bures Miller.\n\nIn 1992, Renzo Piano was commissioned by Dominique de Menil to build a small, independent pavilion dedicated to the work of Cy Twombly, Jr. in the grounds of the Menil Collection. In contrast to the Menil’s main museum building and the surrounding bungalows, the Cy Twombly Gallery is built of sand-colored block concrete, is square in plan and contains nine galleries. Similar to the main museum, it is lit through the roof, but here with an external canopy of louvers, shading the sloping, hipped glass roof, below which a fabric ceiling diffuses the light, giving a reduced intensity of around 300 lux.\n\nThe planned Menil Drawing Institute, according to the Menil Collection, is the first ground-up building in the United States dedicated to the exhibit, study, storage and conservation of modern and contemporary artworks on paper. Los Angeles-based architecture firm Johnston Marklee and New York-based landscape architecture firm Michael Van Valkenburgh Associates designed the Drawing Institute. They worked in close collaboration with the New York–based structural engineering firm Guy Nordenson and Associates. Johnston Marklee was selected to design it after winning a competition that also included David Chipperfield, SANAA and Tatiana Bilbao. Rhode Island-based Gilbane Building Company, a subsidiary of Gilbane, Inc., was selected as the general contractor. The opening of the building was delayed by nearly a year to allow for additional testing.\n\nThe $40-million building, with a total of on two floors, one of them below ground, is located near the southern edge of the Menil campus, adjacent to the Cy Twombly Pavilion and north of the Dan Flavin Installation. Modestly scaled, the flat-roofed building tops out at , no taller than the neighboring gray bungalows on the 30-acre campus. Half of its space is for underground storage, while the ground level will contain a large, flexible central living room, about of exhibition space, a scholar's cloister, rooms for seminars and other events, and a conservation lab, all wrapped around three courtyards.\n\nIn June 2012, a museum visitor named Uriel Landeros defaced an original Picasso at the museum, \"Woman in a Red Armchair\", using black spray paint to stencil a bull and the word \"Conquista\" on the work of art. The vandal, a self proclaimed artist, said that he did it to make a statement, and did not intend to destroy the painting however Landeros was sentenced to two years in prison. \n\nThe museum continues to be governed by the Menil Foundation. The foundation has been solely responsible for acquisition funds, which during the first years averaged more than $1 million annually, and operating disbursements of between $2.7 million and $2.9 million a year. Nearly half of the money for the museum building was derived from outside sources in Houston, in particular the Cullen Foundation and the Brown Foundation, which contributed $5 million each. By 2001, the Menil Foundation's endowment is $200 million. The budget pays for the museum's operation and for exhibitions, research and catalogs.\n\nBrown & Root heir Louisa Stude Sarofim has been president of the Menil Collection and Foundation since 1998, following the death of Dominique de Menil. She has since become the museum's largest donor. The Board of Trustees includes, among others, Suzanne Deal Booth.\n\nThe museum's first director was Walter Hopps. Before joining the Menil Collection as director in 1983, he had worked with Mrs. de Menil on planning the museum and its program. Between 1999 and 2003, Ned Rifkin served as the museum's director; during his time in office, there were frequent clashes over the museum' direction and whether Rifkin was departing from the vision of its founder. Josef Helfenstein was named director in 2004. Until his departure in 2015, the Menil doubled its annual attendance, increased its endowment by almost 54 percent, and added more than 1,000 works to the collection, including pieces by Jasper Johns, Claes Oldenburg, Robert Rauschenberg, Richard Serra and Kara Walker.\n\nMichelle White took up her post at the Menil after honing her skills at Harvard's Fogg Art Museum and the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston; her endeavors have been as varied as projects with the Houston collective Otabenga Jones & Associates (who aim to “teach the truth to the black youth\") and the Richard Serra drawings retrospective that traveled to the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art and New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art. Among others, Flash Art and Modern Painters have published her writings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103582", "title": "Franz Boluminski", "text": "Franz Boluminski\n\nFranz Boluminski (12 November 1863 – 28 April 1913) was a German colonial administrator.\n\nBoluminski was born in Graudenz, Province of Prussia. He served in the German Army in German East Africa and in 1894 went to work for the German New Guinea Company at Astrolabe Bay near modern-day Madang in Papua New Guinea.\n\nIn March 1899 he transferred into the German colonial service and was posted to new station of Kavieng on the island of New Ireland. In 1910 he was promoted to district officer.\n\nHis major feat was the construction of a road along the north-eastern coast of the island. He made each village along the coast construct a section and then maintain it. The road eventually became known as the Boluminski Highway, named in his honour.\n\nAt the same time he established copra plantations connected to the highway and this made New Ireland one of the most profitable parts of German New Guinea.\n\nHe died of heat-stroke and is now buried in Bagail Cemetery in Kavieng.\n"}
{"id": "2103585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103585", "title": "Papinian", "text": "Papinian\n\nAemilius Papinianus (; 142 CE–212 CE), simply rendered as Papinian () in English, was a celebrated Roman jurist, \"magister libellorum\", attorney general (\"advocatus fisci\") and, after the death of Gaius Fulvius Plautianus in 205 CE, praetorian prefect.\n\nPapinian was one of the most revered jurists in ancient Rome, as third year law students were given the title \"\"Papinianistae\"\" (meaning \"they that are worthy to study Papinian\"). In his time, he had been called \"the Asylum of Right and Treasurer of the Laws\". Along with Gaius, Paulus, Modestinus and Ulpian, he was made one of the five jurists whose recorded views were considered decisive by the Law of Citations of 426 CE; their views would later be considered the only suitable ones to be cited as primary sources for the \"Codex Theodosianus\" and the \"Corpus Juris Civilis\", provided that Papinian's views prevailed whenever those of the four other jurists were not congruent. French jurist Jacques Cujas later wrote that \"there was never such a great lawyer before, nor ever will be after him\".\n\nLittle is known about Papinian. He was of Syrian birth and a native of Emesa, for he is said to have been a kinsman of Septimius Severus' second wife, Julia Domna, who was a member of the Arab royal family of Emesa.\n\nOne source shows him as a follower of the casuistry of Quintus Cervidius Scaevola, another shows him to have been his pupil. A concurring (but dubious) passage in the \"Augustan History\" claims that he studied law with Severus under Scaevola.\n\nPapinian was an intimate friend of Emperor Severus and accompanied him to Britain during 207 CE, where he served in \"the forum of York\" in response to an uprising by Scottish Highlanders. He was at some time made an attorney general (\"advocatus fisci\"), master of petitions (requests), \"magister libellorum\", by Severus. He also served as Treasurer and Captain of the Guard for the Emperor. Before the emperor's death, he commended his two sons Caracalla and Geta into the lawyer's charge.\n\nSharing in the governorship of the Roman Empire with Geta proved unsatisfactory for Caracalla, who decided at some time to usurp his brother. Papinian, trying to keep peace between the brothers, only proved to encourage the hatred of Caracalla, consequently passing an order to have the lawyer beheaded (Spartianus, \"Caracalla\"), and his body dragged through the streets of Rome. His death followed the 212 CE fratricide of Geta, amongst the general slaughter of his friends and those perceived associated with him, according to one source estimated as 20,000 persons.\n\nThe author of the 1911 \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" article states that the details of Papinian's death \"are variously related, and have undergone legendary embellishment.\" Papinian's death was the subject of a play by Andreas Gryphius (1659).\n\nMuch of his output has been lost, as what we have is small compared to other jurists such as Ulpian or Paul. The principal works of Papinian include: \"Quaestiones\" in 37 books (written before 198 CE); nineteen books of \"Responsa\" (written sometime between 204 CE and his death); two books, the \"Definitiones\" and \"De adulteriis\", and other works, the shortest of these being Αστυνόμικος (City-Administration) which was a manual on the duties for commissioners of streets and bridges.\n"}
{"id": "2103595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103595", "title": "Korean Central Broadcasting Committee", "text": "Korean Central Broadcasting Committee\n\nThe Radio and Television Broadcasting Committee of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (), also known as Korean Central Broadcasting Committee and Korean Central Broadcasting (), is a state-owned broadcaster of North Korea.\n\nThe committee is under the Cabinet of North Korea, but its personnel is chosen and appointed by the Propaganda and Agitation Department (PAD) of the Workers' Party of Korea. The PAD also assigns tasks to the committee. Hwang Yong-bo is the chairman of the committee.\n\nThe committee is base in Chonsung-dong, Moranbong District, Pyongyang. It is a member of the Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union. The committee has a sports team in the annual Paektusan Prize Games of Civil Servants.\n\nAll three major television stations and 200 radio stations are controlled by the committee. Only the Pyongyang FM Broadcasting Station, \nPyongyang Broadcasting Station, and the Voice of National Salvation under the United Front Department of the Workers' Party of Korea instead. The committee also controls the Korean Central News Agency.\n\n\n\nSchedules are published in the \"Rodong Sinmun\", \"Minju Choson\", \"Pyongyang Sinmun\" and \"Rimjingang\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103600", "title": "Gharib (crater)", "text": "Gharib (crater)\n\nGharib is a crater near the north pole of Saturn's moon Enceladus. Gharib was first seen in \"Voyager 2\" images. It is located at 81.1° North Latitude, 241.2° West Longitude and is 26 kilometers across. A large, dome-like structure occupies the interior of the crater, suggesting the crater has undergone significant viscous relaxation.\n\nGharib is named after a hero from \"Arabian Nights\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2103616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103616", "title": "Trece Martires", "text": "Trece Martires\n\n', officially the ' (), or simply known as City, is a and the \"de facto\" capital city of the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe city was the provincial capital until President Ferdinand Marcos transferred it to the City of Imus on June 11, 1977. Despite of the capital relocation, the city still hosts many offices of the provincial government. According to the , it has a population of people, and an income classification of 1st class.\n\nThe city was named after the Thirteen Martyrs of Cavite, a group of prominent Caviteños who were convicted of rebellion and executed by the Spanish colonial government on September 12, 1896 in the old port city of Cavite during the Philippine Revolution.\n\nTrece Martires started as one of the largest and most remote barrios of Cavite. Originally named \"Quinta\" or \"Quintana\", it was part of the municipality of Tanza. The land was basically agricultural subdivided into cattle ranches and sugar farms, with less than 1,000 hectares, at the intersection of the present Tanza–Trece Martires–Indang Road (Tanza–Trece Martires Road / Trece Martires–Indang Road) and the Naic–Dasmariñas Road (now part of Governor's Drive).\n\nThe city was established on May 24, 1954 under \"Republic Act No. 981\" (\"The Charter of Trece Martires City\") as approved by President Ramon Magsaysay. The Republic Act also transferred the provincial seat of government from Cavite City to Trece Martires. The original bill, \"House Bill 1795\", was authored by Congressman Jose T. Cajulis (1954–1957) and Senator Justiniano S. Montano (1949–1956).\n\nUnder the city charter, the Governor of Cavite is \"ex-officio\" mayor of Trece Martires; then-Governor Dominador Mangubat was installed as the city's first chief executive. On January 2, 1956, the provincial capitol was formally inaugurated, the same day the newly elected Governor, Delfin N. Montano (the son of former Senator Justiniano Montano) was sworn into office. He served in both offices from 1956 to 1971.\n\nOn June 22, 1957, the original act was amended by \"Republic Act 1912\" increasing its territory to , more or less. Consequently, the municipality of Indang and the city of General Trias had to yield parts of their respective areas to this territorial expansion.\n\nOn June 11, 1977, then President Ferdinand E. Marcos signed \"Presidential Decree No. 1163\" relocating the capital and seat of government from Trece Martires to the city (then-municipality) of Imus. Governor Juanito Remulla requested Marcos in September 1979 to transfer the capital back to the city, although it wasn't approved. As of 2011, the provincial capital is the city of Imus, but most of the provincial offices are in Trece Martires — making Trece Martires as a \"de facto\" capital of the province, while Imus as a \"de jure\" provincial capital.\n\nOn March 31, 1992, the \"Republic Act no. 7325\" was approved by President Corazon C. Aquino amending the charter of Trece Martires City, allowing the city to vote their own local officials for the first time.\n\nVice Mayor Alexander Lubigan was assassinated in front of a hospital along Trece Martires–Indang Road in Trece Martires on July 7, 2018. Following this event, the Presidential Anti-Corruption Commission (PACC) initiated a graft probe parallel to the investigation of the vice mayor's slaying. Before the assassination, Lubigan was expressively intent to run for Mayor against Mayor Melandres de Sagun's wife, Roniza, Melandres was intended to run for Congressman for reapportioned 7th District consisting Amadeo, Indang, Tanza and Trece Martires.\n\nTrece Martires is in the heart of Cavite Province. It is bounded north and northwest by the municipality of Tanza, west and southwest by the municipality of Naic, south by the municipality of Indang, southeast by the municipality of Amadeo and east by the city of General Trias. It is about from Manila, the capital of the Philippines (about an hour by car).\n\nThe city of Trece Martires is characterised with ground elevation ranging from to nearly . Its ground slope ranges from 0.5 to 2%.\n\nThe land area is fairy well dissected by creeks and streams that are deeply cut, characterized by steep and abrupt banks. These almost parallel drainage lines flow in northern direction to discharge into either Manila Bay or Laguna de Bay.\n\nTrece Martires City has a tropical climate (Köppen climate classification: \"Aw\") with two pronounced seasons: wet and dry. Wet season covers the period from May to December of each year; dry season covers January to April.\n\nTrece Martires City is politically subdivided into 13 barangays (six urban and seven rural). The city was subdivided by Senator Justiniano Montano and Congressman Jose Cajulis. Each barangay was named after one of the Thirteen Martyrs of Cavite to commemorate their bravery and heroism. Below are the names of the barangays and their names before the City's Charter was passed on May 24, 1954.\n\nIn the , the population of Trece Martires was people, with a density of .\n\nIndustrialisation and commercialism has replaced agriculture as the major source of economy for the city. Its economic growth has attracted immigration from other municipalities especially from Metro Manila. The population grown from 104,559 people in 2010 to 155,713 in 2015, representing an increase of 7.88%. In comparison, the population in 1995 was only 20,451. The city's other major source of income are revenues from real property taxes.\n\nThe most noteworthy fact about Trece Martires is the absence of any form of gambling. It has been awarded in the fields of nutrition, health services, literacy, education and social services.\n\nFor the past years (2010-onwards), the city gradually developed its economy for it supported the construction of Walter Mart Trece Martires, the largest Walter Mart in Cavite along Governor's Drive, which was opened on November 29, 2012, and two Puregold stores in Barangays Hugo Perez and San Agustin. In September 2015, Trece Tower Mall was opened, while SM City Trece Martires, the fifth SM Supermall in Cavite was opened on May 13, 2016.\n\nThe city government provides the following assistance: financial, medical, emergency, school fees and burial expenses. It has extensive programs for the elderly, solo parents, out-of-school youth, and mothers. One of its programs is a blood donation activity every March, May, September and December; Balik Eskwela (school supplies distribution to all public elementary and high school students); clean and green; revitalization of agricultural lands, high school and college scholarship and their livelihood programs.\n\nThe Gen. Emilio Aguinaldo Memorial Hospital in Barangay Luciano is a government-run hospital for the people of the city which has a 250-bed capacity. The hospitals in the city that are owned and run privately are Korea-Philippines Friendship Hospital in Barangay Luciano; the MV Santiago Medical Center in Barangay De Ocampo; the Treceño Medical Pavillon Hospital in Barangay Luciano.\n\nTrece Martires has a mental health facility for people in the city near Gen. Emilio Aguinaldo Memorial Hospital.\n\nSeveral clinics are in the city for maternal health. There is ERS Maternity and Jade building in Luciano and other several clinics in the city.\n\n\nThe fire station of the city is in Barangay San Agustin.\n\nTrece Martires City schools were awarded to be the most ready in the country on the Brigada Eskwela 2012 of Department of Education. Trece Martires City Elementary School topped the Exceptional Category for Elementary Schools in Region IV-A and Trece Martires City National High School was first in the Exceptional Category for Secondary Schools.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103626", "title": "General Emilio Aguinaldo, Cavite", "text": "General Emilio Aguinaldo, Cavite\n\n', officially the ', (), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nFormerly known as Bailen, the municipality was named after Emilio Aguinaldo, the president of the First Philippine Republic. The municipality reverted its name to Bailen after the Provincial Board approved Committee Report 118-2012 on September 3, 2012. It is however yet to be ratified.\n\nThe municipality of General Emilio Aguinaldo used to be a separate Catholic parish in the town of adjacent Maragondon. It was founded by virtue of a decree issued on August 28, 1857 by Archbishop Fray Aranguren, OSA, of the Archdiocese of Manila. The decree separated the barrios of Batas and Guyong-guyong from the town of Maragondon, naming the new parish \"Bailen\". It is recounted that a group of citizens from Barrio Batas petitioned Spanish Governor-General Fernando Norzagaray to convert their barrio into a municipality because of its distance from the town proper. Giving due course to the petition, the Spanish Governor approved the request on August 2, 1858.\n\nBailen, the town's original name, was coined from the Spanish word \"\"bailar\"\", meaning \"to dance\". Another claims that it was named after a Spanish town of the same name. The American civil government, from 1899–1901, reduced the number of towns to facilitate the military policy of concentrating the civilian population of the poblaciones. The Philippine Commission approved Act No. 947 on October 15, 1903, annexing the municipalities of Bailen and Mendez to Alfonso, thus becoming barrios of Alfonso. The Philippine Commission, for the second time in 1904, reorganized the entire province of Cavite reducing its 22 municipalities to 9 groups of towns. Bailen was annexed to Mendez. Bailen was reconverted into an independent municipality in 1915, with the complete restoration of peace and order in Cavite.\n\nOn June 19, 1965 with the signing of Republic Act no. 4346, the town's name, Bailen, was changed to \"General Emilio Aguinaldo\", in honor of the first Philippine president who died the year before.\n\nOn September 3, 2012, the town's name was reverted to Bailen. The Sangguniang Panglalawigan (Provincial Board) has unanimously approved Committee Report 118-2012 renaming General Emilio Aguinaldo, a municipality in the 7th District of the province, to its original, \"Bailen\" during the 95th Regular Session. It is however, yet to be ratified.\n\nGeneral Emilio Aguinaldo is located from Metro Manila. It is bordered to the north and east by the town of Maragondon, by Alfonso to the south, and Magallanes to the west.\n\nBailen is politically subdivided into 14 barangays (4 urban, 10 rural).\n\nIn the , the population of Gen. Emilio Aguinaldo was people, with a density of .\n\nThe following are the elected officials of the town elected last May 13, 2019 which serves until 2022:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103628", "title": "TVXQ", "text": "TVXQ\n\nTVXQ (stylized as TVXQ!), an initialism for Tong Vfang Xien Qi (), is a South Korean pop duo consisting of U-Know Yunho and Max Changmin. They are known as in Japanese releases, and are sometimes referred to as DBSK, an abbreviation of their Korean name Dong Bang Shin Ki (). Their name roughly translates to \"Rising Gods of the East\".\n\nFormed by S.M. Entertainment in 2003, TVXQ began as a five-member boy band composed of members U-Know Yunho, Max Changmin, Hero Jaejoong, Micky Yoochun, and Xiah Junsu. They were immediately launched to mainstream recognition following the release of their first physical single \"Hug\" (2004), which peaked at number four on the MIAK monthly music chart. Their first studio albums \"Tri-Angle\" (2004) and \"Rising Sun\" (2005) were both top sellers, pushing the band's popularity beyond Korea. Under Avex, TVXQ entered the Japanese market with their first Japanese album \"Heart, Mind and Soul\" (2006), but it was met with limited success.\n\nTVXQ rose to international prominence in the late 2000s, after the group achieved critical acclaim in the Korean music industry for their best-selling albums \"\"O\"-Jung.Ban.Hap.\" (2006) and \"Mirotic\" (2008), both winning the Golden Disk Award for Album of the Year. The latter album also contains the pop hit \"Mirotic\", touted by international music critics as a staple song of K-pop. With four chart-topping singles, TVXQ gained widespread media attention in Japan following the release of their fourth Japanese album \"The Secret Code\" (2009). However, despite their commercial success, the group plunged into legal turmoil and internal conflict when members Jaejoong, Yoochun, and Junsu attempted to split from their Korean agency S.M. Entertainment. Prior to the trio's departure in 2010, TVXQ released their last Japanese album as a quintet, \"Best Selection 2010\", which became the group's first album to top the Oricon Albums Chart. The album spawned two platinum-selling singles, including the long-running hit \"Share the World\".\n\nAfter a year-long hiatus, TVXQ returned as a duo with remaining members Yunho and Changmin. They released TVXQ's fifth Korean album \"Keep Your Head Down\" (2011), topping album charts in most major Asian markets upon release. Their first two Japanese albums as a duo, \"Tone\" (2011) and \"Time\" (2013), solidified their success in Japan as it forged TVXQ's reputation as one of the top-touring artists in the country. Their eighth Japanese album \"With\" (2014) made TVXQ the first and only foreign music act in Japan to have four number-one albums in a row.\nSelling over 10 million physical records in the first 10 years of their career, TVXQ have become one of Asia's most successful music acts of their generation. They are often referred to as \"Asia's Stars\" and the \"Kings of K-pop\" for their immense success and contributions to the Hallyu. According to the Oricon, TVXQ have the most number-one singles and albums for a foreign artist in Japan, and are also Japan's best-selling foreign artist in CD singles of all time. Their , one of the highest-grossing concert tours of 2013, broke attendance records for foreign singers in Japan until 2017, when TVXQ broke that same record with their Begin Again Tour. TVXQ are the first non-Japanese Asian artists to headline a nationwide five-Dome tour and the first foreign artists to headline the Nissan Stadium. \"Billboard\" has described the group as \"K-pop royalty\".\n\nWith the disbandment of H.O.T. in 2001 and Shinhwa's departure in 2003, producer Lee Soo-man of S.M. Entertainment had to search for another boy band to compete against other popular idol groups in the growing K-pop market. In early 2003, Lee eventually selected five teenage boys from four different S.M. training teams to debut in a vocal dance unit. Xiah Junsu, the first to join the new group, became an S.M. trainee at age eleven and was originally trained to be a solo singer. He was put into an R&B trio with trainees Sungmin and Eunhyuk (both now of Super Junior fame), and the trio made their first appearance on the reality show \"Survival Audition – Heejun vs. Kangta, Battle of the Century\", a 2002 series that starred former H.O.T. members Kangta and Moon Hee-jun as mentors for prospective singers.\n\nU-Know Yunho, who signed with S.M. Entertainment in 2000, was a member of several failed project groups throughout his years as a trainee. In 2001, he was featured as a rapper in Dana's debut single \"Diamond\" and briefly toured with her. That same year, Hero Jaejoong auditioned for S.M. Entertainment and was subsequently accepted into the agency after going through various auditions. Following trainees Heechul and Kangin, Yunho and Jaejoong joined the project group Four Seasons in 2002, but the quartet disbanded when Yunho and Jaejoong were selected to join Lee's new group in 2003. Heechul and Kangin went on to debut as members of Super Junior two years later.\n\nMax Changmin, the youngest at age fifteen, was the fourth to join the new band. Micky Yoochun, who started his training only a few months before the group's official debut in December 2003, was the last member to make the cut. The boys received phone calls from Lee and were told to attend a photo shoot session, which turned out to be a briefing for their upcoming debut. To build group chemistry, the members moved into a small dormitory room arranged by their management. After a few weeks of training and rehearsals, they recorded their first song \"Thanks To\" and performed it at the S.M. New Face Showcase. Yunho was appointed as the group's leader.\n\nDuring their early recording sessions, the group was offered some tentative names to use: SM5, Dream Team, O Jang Yuk Bu (; literally \"The Five Visceras and the Six Entrails\"), Jeon Meok Go (short for Jeonseoleul Meokgo Saneun Gorae; ; literally \"A Whale That Eats Legends\"), and Dong Bang Bul Pae (), the Korean name for the Chinese wuxia character, Invincible East. They decided on Dong Bang Bul Pae, and even obtained permission to use the name from Film Workshop, but the name was later rejected by their management because the Hanja was not aesthetically pleasing. Their name was subsequently finalized to Dong Bang Shin Ki (), which was suggested by Lee's acquaintance.\n\nTVXQ made their first public appearance and debut on December 26, 2003 in a BoA and Britney Spears showcase, where they performed their debut single \"Hug\" and an a cappella rendition of \"O Holy Night\" with BoA.\n\nThe group released the physical single of \"Hug\" on January 14, 2004. The single debuted at number thirty seven on the monthly MIAK chart selling less than 5,000 copies. On February 6, 2004 TVXQ made their official television debut at the Mnet and KM cable music program \"Music Tank\", where they performed \"Hug\" and \"O Holy Night\". The following day, they performed on SBS's \"Inkigayo\".\n\nThe sales of \"Hug\" picked up following their television appearances, and on March 28, 2004, TVXQ won their first music show award with \"Hug\" on \"The Music Trend\" (\"Inkigayo\"). \"Hug\" won two more awards in April 2004. By May 2004, \"Hug\" sold 118,114 copies and reached a peak at number four on the MIAK. \"Hug\" stayed charted for ten consecutive month\nOn June 24, 2004, TVXQ released their second single \"The Way U Are\", which entered the MIAK at number two. In July 2004, TVXQ participated in their first SM Town project and collaborated with other label mates to release the SM Town album, \"2004 Summer Vacation in SMTown.com\". In October 2004, TVXQ released their first full-length studio album \"Tri-Angle\". It was TVXQ's first record to debut at number one, selling a total of 242,580 copies in the first month. According to the MIAK, \"The Way U Are\" and \"Tri-Angle\" became two of the top ten best-selling albums of 2004.\n\nDuring the promotions of \"Tri-Angle\", S.M. Entertainment had plans to promote TVXQ in mainland China and Taiwan under the support of its overseas partner, Avex Group. TVXQ members recorded Mandarin versions of their popular singles and released them exclusively on the Taiwan presses of \"Tri-Angle\".\n\nInspired by the success of BoA's Japanese music career, TVXQ signed with Japan's Avex Group in late 2004. In November 2004, they released an English version of \"Hug\" in Japan, but the single failed to gain momentum despite TVXQ's Hallyu success. Re-introduced as for the Japanese market, the members learned Japanese and move to Japan for their first official single. They released their debut Japanese single \"Stay with Me Tonight\" in April 2005 through Avex's record label Rhythm Zone. The single reached to number thirty-seven on the weekly Oricon Singles Chart. Before returning to Korea to prepare for their second Korean album \"Rising Sun\", TVXQ released their second Japanese single \"Somebody to Love\" in July 2005, which peaked at number fourteen. TVXQ's debut in Japan was not as successful as their management had hoped, and the group said their first few months in Japan were \"difficult.\" In August 2005, TVXQ performed for Avex's annual A-Nation summer concert tour, their first musical festival in Japan.\n\n\"Rising Sun\" was released in South Korea on September 12, 2005 and became the group's first breakthrough album. It debuted at number one on the Korean charts and was the fourth best-selling record of 2005. The album's lead single \"Rising Sun\" was a popular hit, and it eventually became the group's signature piece. TVXQ ended the year with two more releases: their third Japanese single \"My Destiny\" and a Korean maxi single \"Show Me Your Love\", featuring Super Junior. The latter single entered the Korean charts at number one. \"Rising Sun\" garnered several popularity awards for the group at the end of the year, including M.net KM Music Video Festival's Best Popular Music Video award, the ceremony's \"daesang\" (\"grand prize\").\n\nIn February 2006, TVXQ embarked on their first headlining international concert tour, the Rising Sun Tour. Comprising 6 shows only, the tour started off with four shows in Seoul, South Korea. On July 14, 2006, the tour stopped by Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, where TVXQ were the first Korean artist to hold a concert in the country. The tour's second and last overseas stop was in Bangkok, Thailand on July 15, 2006. A CD recording of their concert in Korea was released on July 14; the DVD was released six months later in January 2007, and had initial sales of 38,000 units.\n\nOn March 8, 2006, TVXQ released their fourth Japanese single, , which became the seventeenth ending theme for the long-running anime series \"One Piece\". Their debut Japanese album \"Heart, Mind and Soul\" was released two weeks later, and it debuted on the Oricon Albums Chart at number twenty-five, selling 18,000 copies. In April 2006, TVXQ released their first double A-side single \"Rising Sun / Heart, Mind and Soul\" as a follow-up from their album. The single peaked at number twenty-two. To support \"Heart, Mind and Soul\" and its subsequent releases, TVXQ held their first Japanese tour, the 1st Live Tour 2006: Heart, Mind and Soul, from May to June 2006. The tour consisted of eleven shows that attracted an audience of 14,800. After the tour, TVXQ released two more Japanese singles, \"Begin\" and \"Sky\". The latter debuted at number six on the Oricon, making it the group's first single to reach the top ten in Japan.\n\nThe group resumed their Korean activities with the release of their third Korean album, \"\"O\"-Jung.Ban.Hap.\" on September 29, 2006. The album entered the Korean charts at number one and became the best-selling record of 2006 after one month of release. The success of the album gave TVXQ four coveted grand prize awards in 2006: at the M.net KM Music Festival, they received four awards, including Artist of the Year and Best Group. TVXQ won all three of their nominations at the 16th Seoul Music Awards, and at the 21st Golden Disk Awards, \"\"O\"-Jung.Ban.Hap\" won Album of the Year, the ceremony's grand prize. TVXQ also took home the biggest awards at the SBS Gayo Daejeon. The album's international success won the group their first award in Japan, the Bess Buzz Asia in Korea award at the MTV Video Music Awards Japan.\n\nIn November 2006, TVXQ returned to Japan to release their eighth Japanese single, , which became TVXQ's first top three single on the Orico'. In January 2007, TVXQ announced their second international tour, the 2nd Asia Tour: O, and toured Seoul, Taipei, Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur, Shanghai and Beijing. The tour attracted an audience of 390,000.\n\nTVXQ released their second Japanese album \"Five in the Black\" in March 2007, debuting at number ten on the Oricon with nearly 27,000 copies sold on its first week. Drawing in an audience of 46,600, the group toured Japan from May to June 2007. The five singles TVXQ released upon completion of the tour, including \"Lovin' You\", \"\", \"Shine / Ride On\", \"Forever Love\" and \"Together\", peaked in the Oricon top five, their most successful being \"Summer\", which peaked at number two. TVXQ were also featured in Kumi Koda's thirty-eighth single \"Last Angel\", which was used as the theme song for the Japanese release of \"\". Released in November 2007, the single peaked at number three on the Oricon and won Best Collaboration Video at Japan's MTV Video Music Awards.\n\nTVXQ's sixteenth Japanese single \"Purple Line\", released on January 15, 2008, became the group's first single to debut at number one on the Oricon. Their third Japanese album \"T\" was released a week later and debuted at number four, selling over 52,000 copies. With the critical and commercial success of \"T\", TVXQ delayed their Korean comeback to put more focus on their new Japanese releases, and from February to March 2008, the group released a series of five singles consecutively for six weeks, promoting the releases as the \"Trick\" project. Each single contained a solo track by a member, as well as some of their own compositions. With their new records the group toured around Japan from March to May 2008. The T tour concluded with 17 shows and attracted an audience of 150,000 people, more than three times the size of their previous Five in the Black tour. The tour's DVD, released in August 2008, sold 112,000 copies. \"T\" also received a gold certification by the Recording Industry Association of Japan (RIAJ) in May 2008.\n\nShortly before completing the T tour, TVXQ released their twenty-second Japanese single, \"Beautiful You / Sennen Koi Uta\". The latter track, \"Sennen Koi Uta\", was used as the opening theme for the historical Korean drama \"The Legend\" when it aired in Japan. Despite the drama's disappointing ratings, the single was a number-one seller, making TVXQ the first non-Japanese Asian performer to release two number-one singles in Japan, a record which was last held by Taiwanese artist Ou-yang Fei-fei twenty-four years prior. In July 2008, TVXQ released their twenty-third single, \"Dōshite Kimi o Suki ni Natte Shimattandarō?\", their third number-one single in Japan. They performed the single at Avex's 20th anniversary meeting and at A-Nation 2008, their fourth consecutive concert with Avex.\n\nIn August 2008, TVXQ returned to Korea to prepare for the release of their fourth Korean album, \"Mirotic\". The group assumed more creative control in this album compared to their last Korean releases: Yunho wrote the rap for several tracks, Junsu and Changmin wrote the lyrics to two tracks and Jaejoong and Yoochun recorded their own solo tracks. \"Mirotic\" was slated to be released on September 24, 2008, but due to an unprecedented amount of pre-orders, the release was postponed to September 26. The album entered the charts at number one and sold over 110,000 copies in one week, setting a new record. The album's lead single \"Mirotic\" became TVXQ's most successful single of their career. The song won a total of nine number-one trophies on Korean music programs \"The Music Trend\", \"Music Bank\", and \"M! Countdown\", and was touted by international critics as a staple song of K-pop. \"Mirotic\" has sold over 600,000 copies, the first Korean album in six years to surpass half a million sales in South Korea.\n\nIn October 2008, TVXQ released the Japanese version of \"Mirotic\", which topped the Oricon, breaking a record that the group had set with their previous single. TVXQ were the first Korean group to attend the Japanese New Year Eve's music festival Kōhaku Uta Gassen, and their invitation to the event was considered as one of the biggest highlights of their Japanese music career. In January 2009, the group released their twenty-fifth Japanese single \"Bolero / Kiss the Baby Sky / Wasurenaide\", which was another number one single for the group. \"Bolero\" was used as the theme song for the Japanese film \"Dance Subaru\", and TVXQ also made brief cameo appearances in the film. In February 2009, the group kicked off their third international tour, the 3rd Asia Tour: Mirotic, which went through five cities in Asia.\n\nTVXQ released their fourth Japanese album \"The Secret Code\" in March 2009 and it debuted at number two on the Oricon. It managed to sell over 317,000 copies in Japan, earning a platinum certification. From May to July 2009, TVXQ went on their fourth headlining Japanese tour, the 4th Live Tour 2009: The Secret Code, which consisted of 21 shows to an audience of 279,500 people. The last two shows of the tour were at the Tokyo Dome, making TVXQ the first Korean group to perform at the venue. The concert's DVD, which was released in September 2009, pre-sold 107,000 copies and ultimately sold more than 353,000 copies. A number-one seller, TVXQ were the first foreign artist in twenty years to peak at first place on the Oricon's DVD rankings.\n\nIn July 2009, members Jaejoong, Yoochun, and Junsu attempted to split with their Korean management S.M. Entertainment, claiming that their thirteen-year contract was excessively long, schedules were held out without permission of the members, and profits were unfairly distributed. In October 2009, the Seoul Central District Court granted the trio a temporary contract injunction, and TVXQ's group activities in Korea were ceased. In November 2009, Yunho and Changmin released a joint statement in support of S.M. Entertainment, and urged the trio to resolve their issues with their management quickly if they wished to continue their careers as TVXQ members. As a result of the legal battle, the Shenzhen show for the group's Mirotic tour was canceled a week before its scheduled date on November 21, 2009, thus prematurely ending the tour. Despite the injunction, Jaejoong, Yoochun, and Junsu maintained their activities as TVXQ members under Avex's management in Japan, and the group continued to release new Japanese singles together until early 2010. However, the members' last public performance together was on December 31, 2009, at the 60th NHK Kōhaku Uta Gassen, where they performed their twenty-eighth single, \"Stand by U\".\n\nIn January 2010, TVXQ released their twenty-ninth single, \"Break Out!\", which created a new record for the group. The single topped the Oricon and broke Elton John's fourteen-year record of having the highest first-week sales for a foreign artist. On February 17, 2010, TVXQ released their Japanese greatest hits album \"Best Selection 2010\", a compilation of their number-one hits including new singles released after 2009's \"The Secret Code\", such as \"Share the World / We Are!\", \"Stand by U\", and \"Break Out!\". The album sold over 400,000 copies in one week, earning RIAJ's double platinum status by the end of February. In March 2010, the group released their last single together, \"Toki o Tomete\", which was certified platinum by the RIAJ.\n\nOn April 3, 2010, Avex declared the suspension of TVXQ's Japanese activities, stating that each member would be pursuing a solo career. However, a week later, Avex announced the formation of a \"special unit\" with members Jaejoong, Yoochun, and Junsu—later known as JYJ—a move that led to Yunho and Changmin's indefinite hiatus from music activities. After JYJ's announcement, S.M. Entertainment filed a lawsuit against JYJ to validate their contracts. In June 2010, JYJ submitted a lawsuit against S.M. Entertainment to void their exclusive contracts. Following the suits, S.M. Entertainment attempted to denounce JYJ and their new agency C-JeS, while Yunho and Changmin remained silent throughout the legal proceedings. In the meantime, Avex released two of TVXQ's greatest hits albums, the \"Complete Single A-side Collection\" and the \"Single B-side Collection\", both of which were released on June 30. They were TVXQ's closing releases under their contract with Rhythm Zone.\n\nAfter several months of inactivity, Yunho and Changmin made their comeback appearances in August 2010 for the Seoul stop of the SM Town Live '10 World Tour, where they performed re-recorded versions of older TVXQ songs. Their two-piece performances garnered strong and supportive reactions from the audience, prompting Yunho and Changmin's decision to continue TVXQ activities without the other three. There were brief talks about recruiting new members, but their mentor Lee Soo-man suggested that they should continue as a duo act. Shortly after the concert, the duo began working on their comeback album and brought in a new line of producers, including E-Tribe and Outsidaz. In September 2010, Avex dropped JYJ, citing conflict with C-JeS. Avex then declared its support for remaining TVXQ members Yunho and Changmin on November 24, announcing that the duo have signed a new record contract with Rhythm Zone's sister label Avex Trax.\n\nYunho and Changmin released TVXQ's comeback Korean album \"Keep Your Head Down\" on January 5, 2011. The album debuted at number one on the Gaon Albums Chart, and maintained its position for a second week. With 230,922 copies sold by mid-2011, \"Keep Your Head Down\" won the Album of the Year for the first quarter of 2011 at the Gaon Chart K-Pop Awards. The album's title single, \"Keep Your Head Down\" also stayed strong on the charts, winning seven number-one trophies on music shows \"The Music Trend\", \"Music Bank\", and \"M! Countdown.\" The Japanese version \"Keep Your Head Down\", which was released as a physical single in Japan on January 26, 2011, was a chart-topper and became TVXQ's second best-selling single in Japan, earning a platinum certification by the RIAJ. In March 2011, \"Keep Your Head Down\" was reissued with a new single, \"Before U Go\", and the repackaged album \"Before U Go\" peaked at number nine on the Gaon, pushing the album to be the third best-selling record of 2011 in South Korea.\n\nWhile promoting \"Keep Your Head Down\", Yunho and Changmin spoke up for the first time about their 2010 hiatus and breakup with JYJ. According to Yunho, JYJ had \"exceedingly deep conflicts\" with their agency and the members had irreconcilable differences about their career. Changmin added that the team had worked so hard to the point where they felt like they could finally \"harvest the fruits of [their] labor\", yet instead of being happy they had to perform their final stage with heavy hearts. JYJ responded by saying that they did not regret their decision in leaving S.M. Entertainment. The lyrics of \"Keep Your Head Down\" also came under media scrutiny, with claims that they were directed at JYJ; however, TVXQ clarified that \"Keep Your Head Down\" was not a diss track, and that similar claims would still happen even if they were to release a different song with different lyrics. Yunho said, \"The song is about a man's mind towards a woman who had left him. We can sometimes find out that a certain song seems to talk about my own story. In this way it totally depends on the interpretation using our own thoughts.\"\n\nIn July 2011, TVXQ released their thirty-second Japanese single \"Superstar\", which was certified gold by month's end. From July to August, the duo toured around Japan for Avex's A-Nation summer concert, and at the Tokyo stop, TVXQ performed as the closing act, breaking Ayumi Hamasaki's record of closing the concert eight years in a row. TVXQ were the first foreign performers to close the festival. On September 28, the group released the Japanese album \"Tone\", which earned them their first number-one studio album. It sold over 200,000 copies on its first week and earned RIAJ's platinum certification on its second week. TVXQ was the second overseas artist in Japan to achieve album sales of more than 200,000 in a week; the previous holder was Bon Jovi with their 2000 album, \"Crush\".\n\nIn the latter months of 2011, the duo performed for a string of K-pop music festivals around the world. They first performed at the 2011 Hallyu Dream Concert at Gyeongju Citizens' Stadium in South Korea on October 3. On October 9, TVXQ participated in the \"New York-Korea Festival\", a concert produced by KBS Global to commemorate the 20th anniversary of Korea's entry into the United Nations. It was held in New Jersey. On October 23, TVXQ performed with SM Town at the SM Town Concert in New York at Madison Square Garden concert and garnered international media attention. TVXQ also participated in the 2011 K-pop Music Fest in Sydney, Australia, presented by JK Entertainment on November 12.\n\nTheir new Japanese holiday single \"Winter\" was released on November 30. The single's A-track, \"Winter Rose\", was selected as the commercial song for Seven & i Holdings's \"Winter Gift\", which premiered on November 8. TVXQ also contributed in their Korean management's December compilation album \"2011 Winter SMTown – The Warmest Gift\", and released the song \"Sleigh Ride\". On December 31, TVXQ performed \"Keep Your Head Down\" at the 62nd NHK Kohaku Uta Gassen. It was their first time performing at the Kohaku since the split, drawing media attention.\n\nTVXQ started 2012 with their comeback Japanese solo tour, the , in January 2012. Tickets were sold out in a few minutes. Spanning a total of twenty-six shows in nine cities, the Tone Tour reached to an audience of 550,000, more than twice the audience count of their 2009 Japanese tour, The Secret Code. TVXQ also became the third foreign artist, after Michael Jackson and the Backstreet Boys, to perform at the Tokyo Dome for three consecutive days, attracting crowds of over 165,000. The Tone tour's 550,000 audience was also the largest mobilization for any Korean artist in Japan at the time, until TVXQ broke their own record with their 2013 Japan tour .\n\nWith the release of their thirty-fourth chart-topping Japanese single, \"STILL\" in March 2012, TVXQ became the first foreign artist to release ten number-one singles in Japan. By July 2012, TVXQ came to be recognized as the first foreign artist in Japan to sell over 3.1 million CD singles, breaking a ten-year, ten-month long record that was previously held by the American vocal duo, The Carpenters. The group had a fan club event tour called \"The Mission\" that attracted over 100,000 fans\n\nTVXQ returned to South Korea in September 2012 to release their sixth Korean album \"Catch Me\", followed by the announcement of their first world tour, the . \"Catch Me\" was released online on September 24 and on September 26 through normal commercial outlets. It became Yunho and Changmin's second number-one album and TVXQ's fifth number-one album in South Korea, and maintained its number-one position on the Gaon Albums Chart for three weeks. On November 26, TVXQ released \"Humanoids\", the repackage of \"Catch Me\", which also peaked at number one. Two days after the reissue's release, S.M. Entertainment and JYJ dropped their lawsuits against each other and reached a settlement, ending their three-year legal dispute. As part of the agreement, both parties stated that they would no longer interfere with each other's activities, and it was agreed upon that JYJ's contracts with S.M. Entertainment had ended in July 2009.\n\nOn January 16, 2013, TVXQ announced on their official Japanese site the release of their sixth Japanese album \"Time\" for March 6. The album became their fastest selling studio album to date, selling over 277,000 copies in its first month of release.\nIts lead single, \"Catch Me -If You Wanna-\", sold over 137,000 copies, and topped the Oricon Weekly Singles Chart, making the group the first foreign artist to have had twelve number ones on Oricon. In March the group took part in the TRF tribute album \"TRF Tribute Album Best\" for TRF's 20th anniversary. They sang a cover of \"survival dAnce ~ cry more~\" and were the only Koreans to participate on the album.\n\nTVXQ set several records with their , which commenced at the Saitama Super Arena in April 2013. The duo became the first K-pop artist and the fourth foreign artist to embark on a five-dome tour, and were the first foreign musical act to perform at the Nissan Stadium as a headlining artist. The tour attracted a record audience of 850,000 people. The tour grossed US$90 million, breaking Tone's record.\n\nOn December 26–27, 2013, TVXQ held two concerts titled \"Time Slip\" at the Korea International Exhibition Center in Ilsanseo-gu, South Korea to celebrate their tenth anniversary.\n\nPromoted as TVXQ's tenth anniversary debut album, their seventh Korean studio album \"Tense\" was announced in November 2013. The album was released on January 6, 2014 and debuted at number one on South Korea's Gaon Albums Chart and Hanteo Albums Chart, with first-week sales of 73,100 copies. First-month shipments reached 194,198 units, making \"Tense\" the best-selling album of January 2014 in South Korea. Music critics rated \"Tense\" favorably, with a general consensus that the album is the duo's best Korean record to-date. Musically \"Tense\" has elements of neo soul with throwback-inspired pop, and it is described to be more mature than the duo's earlier efforts. The lead single \"Something\", a swing jazz pop number, debuted at number four on the Gaon Singles Chart and reached number seven on the \"Billboard\" Korea K-Pop Hot 100, TVXQ's highest debut on both charts. In Japan, \"Something\" was released as a double A-side single with \"Hide & Seek\" on February 5, 2014. In late February 2014, TVXQ announced their follow-up Korean single \"Spellbound\". An expanded version of \"Tense\", re-titled \"Spellbound\", was released on February 27, 2014 and debuted at number two on the Gaon Albums Chart, shipping 61,405 copies in two days.\n\n\"Tree\", TVXQ's seventh Japanese studio album, was released on March 5, 2014. It debuted at number one on the Oricon Albums Chart, moving 225,000 copies on its first week of release. With \"Tree\", TVXQ became the first foreign band in Japan to have three consecutive studio albums with first-week sales of over 200,000 copies, breaking Bon Jovi's thirteen-year record. TVXQ continued to break new records with their seventh Japanese concert tour , which toured Japan from April to June. The tour drew in over 600,000 people in total, pushing the duo to become the first international artist of Japan to bring in the largest number of concertgoers in the last three years, reaching over 2 million.\n\nOn August 30, 2014, TVXQ announced their at Avex's A-Nation concert for early 2015, which went on to be their tenth anniversary tour in Japan. The tour's accompanying studio album, \"With\", was released on December 17, 2014. It debuted at number one on the Oricon, selling 233,000 copies. Meanwhile, the duo also embarked on their world tour concert , a commemoration for their tenth year in the K-pop industry.\n\nOn December 26, 2014, the duo's eleventh debut anniversary, TVXQ's wax figures at Madame Tussauds were unveiled in Shanghai. By the end of 2014, TVXQ became the 5th artist by total sales revenue in Japan in 2014, with ¥3.691 billion.\n\nThe duo entered their second hiatus when Yunho started his mandatory military service for the Republic of Korea Armed Forces on July 21, 2015. Prior to his enlistment, TVXQ released the full-length album \"Rise as God\", which debuted at number one. Changmin joined the Military Police on November 19, 2015.\n\nYunho was honorably discharged from service on April 20, 2017, while Changmin was honorably discharged on August 18, 2017. On August 21, TVXQ announced their comeback to be a series of projects, starting with a concert. The TVXQ Special Comeback Live: Your Present held a total of three shows in Seoul and Macau from September 30 to October 15, 2017. On October 25, 2017, the duo released the Japanese compilation album \"Fine Collection ~Begin Again~\", which comprised songs released by the duo since 2011. The album's accompanying Begin Again Tour debuted at the Sapporo Dome in November 2017 and ended at the Nissan Stadium in January 2018. TVXQ broke several records with the tour: they are the first music group in Japan to hold a three-day concert at the Nissan Stadium and are the first foreign artists to bring over a million people with one tour. The tour broke a new record for K-pop in Japan, with a total of one million tickets sold. \"Reboot,\" the duo's first Japanese single since their hiatus, was released on December 20, 2017. The single debuted at number two on the Oricon Singles Chart, selling over 123,000 copies.\n\nThe duo started preparations for their eighth Korean studio album upon their return to Korea. \"\" was released on March 28, 2018 after a two-week pre-release promotional period. Following the album's release, the duo announced the Circle #welcome Tour, which opened in Seoul's Jamsil Supplementary Stadium on May 5 and 6, 2018. The tour went on to play shows in Hong Kong and Bangkok.\n\n\"New Chapter #1\" debuted at number one on the Gaon Album Chart, their seventh number-one album since the chart's inception in 2010. \"New Chapter #1\" ultimately finished the month of March at number four with 110,666 copies in Korea. The duo released their ninth full-length Japanese studio album \"Tomorrow\" on September 19, 2018, and debuted number one on the Oricon Albums Chart. The record is supported by the nationwide Tomorrow Tour from September 2018 to January 2019. With 33 stops, it was TVXQ's most expansive tour in Japan. The duo released their 46th Japanese single \"Jealous\" on November 21, 2018 as the lead track for their tenth Japanese album XV. It debuted at number one on the Oricon Singles Chart, their 13th time topping the chart. This broke several records, making TVXQ the foreign artist with the most number ones, most top-10s, and highest cumulative sales in Oricon Singles Chart history.\n\nTVXQ released their extended play \"\", sequel to \"New Chapter #1\", on December 26, 2018, day of their fifteenth debut anniversary. Similar to their 2015 album \"Rise as God\", \"The Truth of Love\" was tagged as a \"special\" album release, so it was not regarded as an official studio release. Though TVXQ did not promote the record, it debuted at number two on the Gaon Album Chart. In Japan, it debuted at number 12 on the Oricon Albums Chart.\n\nTheir tenth Japanese album \"XV\", promoted as their fifteenth debut anniversary in Japan, was released on October 16, 2019. It was TVXQ's eighth album to debut atop the Oricon Albums Chart, surpassing BoA's record in becoming the first and only foreign artist in Japan to earn eight number one albums.\n\nIn May 2020, it was announced that TVXQ will hold a live online concert, as the fifth concert organised by SM Entertainment and Naver as part of the world first online-dedicated live concert series \"Beyond LIVE\". The live concert is scheduled on May 24.\n\nTVXQ have labeled their lead singles as \"SMP\", a supposedly experimental genre with a mix of orchestral pop, rock, hip hop, and contemporary R&B, topped with harmonizing vocals and high notes. Many of TVXQ's songs feature lyrics with dark social commentary.\n\nTVXQ's musical style has evolved over the years. Dance-pop and contemporary R&B ballads persisted throughout their releases, and they have released a cappella versions of their music. In their first two albums, TVXQ explored rap rock, and have collaborated with the rock band TRAX in those attempts. With their fourth Korean album \"Mirotic\" (2008), TVXQ delved into urban contemporary and electropop, and the album's lead single \"Mirotic\", a song marked by heavy-urban dance and Europop sounds, is considered one of the staple songs of K-pop. In the albums after the split, Yunho and Changmin experimented with more electronic dance music, traditional R&B, and pop songs with strong hip hop cadences. However, the duo's tenth anniversary album, \"Tense\" (2014), saw a drastic change in TVXQ's musical direction, in which acoustic genres such as adult contemporary pop music took focus.\n\nTVXQ's dance choreography has been called \"intense and powerful\". Their stage performances have been described as \"imaginative\" and \"captivating\", with Yunho and Changmin being lauded for their stability and stamina to perform live, with some live concert sets lasting for more than three hours. On an episode of Mnet's \"Idol Chart Show\" that aired on May 4, 2011, TVXQ were ranked number one among music removed (MR) idol singers.\n\n\n\nThe five original members of TVXQ made their first appearance as actors in 2005, through the sitcom \"Rainbow Romance\" and their own seven-episode miniseries titled \"Banjun Theatre\". In 2006, TVXQ starred in their second miniseries \"Vacation\", also releasing a soundtrack.\n\nIn 2012, Yunho and Changmin appeared in the biographical movie \"I AM.\", a film that contained interviews from SM Town artists. The duo was featured in another SM Town film, the concert documentary \"SM Town: The Stage\", in August 2015. In April 2016, during the duo's hiatus, they released their own Japanese concert film, \"Till\", in Japan. In May 2018, the duo made cameo appearances on the television special drama \"Tensai Bakabon\", playing as two hotel porters who appear again ten years later as members of a popular band.\n\nIn November 2008, the Korean Commission of Youth Protection ruled that \"Mirotic\" was detrimental to youths and declared that the lyrics were provocative and overly sexual. As a result, the album was labeled with stickers indicating that it was unsuitable for people under 19 years old and any performances of the song would have to be broadcast after 10 PM. In response to the ruling, SM Entertainment agreed to make a clean version but also had filed an injunction to overrule the commission's decision. The lyrics were changed from \"I got you\" to \"I chose you\" and \"I got you under my skin\" to \"I got you under my sky.\" In March 2009, the Seoul Administrative Court ruled in favor of SM Entertainment. The Commission of Youth Protection announced they would appeal the ruling to a high court after having an emergency meeting and deeming that the phrase, \"I got you under my skin\", was inappropriate for minors.\n\nOn July 31, 2009, three of the members—Hero Jaejoong, Micky Yoochun, and Xiah Junsu—submitted an application to the Seoul Central District Court to determine the validity of their contract with their management agency, S.M. Entertainment. Through their lawyers, the trio stated that the 13-year contract was excessively long, schedules were held out without the confirmation or permission of the members, contract terms had been extended and changed without their knowledge or consent, and that the group's earnings were not fairly distributed to the members. Early termination penalty of their contract would cost them twice the profit that the group was estimated to earn for S.M. Entertainment in the rest of the contract period. The news of their lawsuit was enough to cause S.M. Entertainment's stock price to drop over 10% on the KOSPI.\n\nThe Seoul Central District Court granted the three members a temporary contract injunction in October 2009 and stated that S.M. Entertainment could not interfere with their individual activities, thus placing a halt on TVXQ's group activities in South Korea. The members claimed that the contract was unfair and that they were left out of proper profit distribution. In response, S.M. Entertainment called a press conference and claimed that the lawsuit was not about unfair contracts or human rights, but motivated by the three members' greed to pursue their cosmetics business uninhibited by the restrictions of their exclusive contract with S.M. Entertainment. The agency submitted a complaint on criminal misdemeanor charges against the cosmetics company CreBeau; however, it was never brought to court by the prosecutor on grounds of insufficient evidence. The three replied that they hoped S.M. Entertainment would respect the court's decision.\n\nIn response to the lawsuit, 120,000 TVXQ fans filed a petition against S.M. Entertainment's long-term contracts to the Seoul District Court. The Korean chapter of TVXQ's fanclub, Cassiopeia, also filed for compensation from S.M. Entertainment for the cancelled S.M. Town Live Concert, as both S.M. Entertainment and TVXQ initially stated that the concert would go on as planned. The concert was canceled a week before its scheduled date. TVXQ's Mirotic Asia Tour Concert in Shenzhen, which was scheduled to be held on November 21, 2009, was also canceled.\n\nThough TVXQ's activities in Korea were ceased, the three continued activities as TVXQ members until the end of the year in Japan, where they were managed by Avex. On April 3, 2010, Avex announced the indefinite suspension of TVXQ's Japanese activities. The three, later known as JYJ, signed a new contract with Avex to form a new special unit, which was announced on April 13, 2010. The trio released their debut Japanese EP, \"The...\" in September 2010.\n\nOn February 17, 2011, the Seoul Central District Court dismissed S.M. Entertainment's injunction against the three, filed in April 2010 for damage compensation. In September 2012, the final decision on the case was postponed indefinitely by the Seoul Central District Court for mediation under the justice department.\n\nThe lawsuit came to an end on November 28, 2012, with both parties mutually agreeing to withdraw their lawsuits, stating that the three members' contracts came to an end on July 31, 2009 and that both parties would mutually not interfere with each other's activities. An S.M. official was quoted as saying, \"We made a judgment that we don't have to manage the three members of JYJ any longer as they expressed their intention not to keep their activity as TVXQ\" and further added that they have decided to end the litigation \"to avoid bringing additional harm to U-Know Yunho and Max Changmin, who are active as TVXQ, and to avoid making any more unneeded issues\".\n\nTVXQ have endorsed products such as LG Mobile, \"Samsung\"s \"Anycall\", sportswear \"Fila\", and Oronamin C. Some of their songs have even been used as theme songs for television shows, commercials and motion pictures; such as \"One Piece\", Chevrolet and \"Subaru\".\n\nIn 2011, the newly reformed TVXQ duo landed endorsement deals in Korea with brands such as Nike, The Shilla Duty Free, Pepsi NEX Zero, Missha, and most recently with Lacoste. In Japan, they have endorsed Seven & i Holdings, 7-Eleven products, the Seibu Silver card, 7-net shopping, and Ezaki Glico ice cream products.\n\nOn August 14, 2012, Missha launched a new limited-edition TVXQ perfume set and had a special TVXQ fan signing event at the Missha store in Myeong-dong. On September 10, 2012, Missha announced that TVXQ had signed an exclusive contract with them to represent the brand worldwide and that their advertisements would soon be featured in some 1,000 stores across Asia.\n\nIn 2005, the Los Angeles Tourism Corporation launched the \"See My L.A.\" campaign. TVXQ, along with label-mate BoA, became the spokespeople for the campaign. Since April 2007, TVXQ host their own weekly radio program, \"TVXQ Bigeastation\" on the Japan FM Network. On March 28, 2008, TVXQ were chosen as the \"Goodwill Ambassador for Asia\" by Universal Studios Japan in order to further promote the attractions of the USJ. TVXQ were also chosen to be the new faces for the Lotte duty-free shop, due to their popularity throughout Asia.\n\nThe official fanclubs of TVXQ are \"Cassiopeia\" in South Korea and \"Bigeast\" in Japan. Their fandom color is red. According to news sources in 2008, \"Cassiopeia\" was listed in the Guinness Book of Records as \"the world's largest fanclub\" with more than 800,000 official members. However, the Guinness World Records later stated that \"[w]e currently have a category for the largest fanclub for a group, but no record has yet been set and we haven't been provided with any evidence\". TVXQ was also reported to have made it into the Guinness World Records in 2009 for being the Most Photographed Celebrities in the World, which was also directly refuted by Guinness World Records.\n\nWhen Jaejoong, Yoochun, and Junsu started their lawsuit against their management, 120,000 \"Cassiopeia\" members filed a petition with the Seoul District Court in 2010 against S.M. Entertainment's long-term contracts. \"Cassiopeia\" also filed for compensation from S.M. Entertainment for the canceled SM Town Live Concert, as both SM and TVXQ initially stated that the concert would go on as planned. The concert was canceled a week before its scheduled date.\n\nTVXQ are known for breaking numerous sales and attendance records in Japan. In 2008, with the release of their 16th Japanese single \"Purple Line\", TVXQ became the first foreign boy band and the second Korean artist after BoA to top the weekly Oricon Singles Chart in Japan. Their 23rd Japanese single \"Dōshite Kimi o Suki ni Natte Shimattandarō?\" was TVXQ's third single to top the Oricon, hitting a record for a non-Japanese Asian music act in Japan. Their 29th Japanese single \"Break Out!\" released in 2010 was the fastest-selling single by a foreign act in Japan, breaking a record previously held by Elton John. Their greatest hits album \"Best Selection 2010\" was TVXQ's first album to debut atop the weekly Oricon Albums Chart and the first album by a foreign artist to sell over 400,000 copies in one week, breaking Bon Jovi's record fourteen years prior.\n\nWith the release of TVXQ's 31st Japanese single \"Keep Your Head Down\" in 2011, the band's first single after the split, TVXQ extended their record for weekly singles sales in Japan by a foreign music act. The duo's 42nd Japanese single \"Time Works Wonders\", released in 2014, pushed TVXQ's CD single sales in Japan to 4.09 million copies, making TVXQ the best-selling foreign music act in CD singles of all time. TVXQ have 34 top ten singles and 12 number-one singles, the most by any foreign artist in Japan. TVXQ's 2014 Japanese album \"With\" also broke several records in a row: \"With\" was TVXQ's fourth consecutive number-one album and their fourth consecutive album to surpass 200,000 copies in its first week of release, breaking yet another record that was previously set by Bon Jovi in Japan.\n\nTVXQ are the first Korean idol group invited to perform at the Kōhaku Uta Gassen, Japan's most prestigious New Year Eve's music festival. They performed there three times, from 2008 to 2011. TVXQ are the first Korean music group to headline their own concert at the Tokyo Dome (The Secret Code Tour in 2009), the first foreign group to embark on a five-Dome tour in Japan ( in 2013), and the first foreign artists to perform at the Nissan Stadium (Time Tour). Their 2017 Begin Again Tour was the highest-attended tour ever held by a foreign music act, bringing over a million people.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103642", "title": "Alejandro Cao de Benós", "text": "Alejandro Cao de Benós\n\nAlejandro Cao de Benós de Les y Pérez (born 1974) is a Spanish political activist with close relations with North Korea. He is a Special Representative of the Foreign Ministry of North Korea. He is, according to himself, also the Special Delegate of North Korea's Committee for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries.\n\nHe is also the founder, president, and only salaried member of the Korean Friendship Association (KFA). All official government and ministerial sites of North Korea have the .kp domain and – given the whois record for KFA's website points towards it being the personally owned domain of Cao de Benós – there is doubt about its claim to be the \"official web page of DPR of Korea\" and thus Cao de Benós's claims of his actual status in North Korea's hierarchy.\n\nHe has been an advocate of North Korea since 1990. His Korean name, Cho Son-il (\"Korea is One\"), is self-given but not a legal name as he travels using his Spanish passport. He is an honorary member of the ruling Workers' Party of Korea and the Korean People's Army. He has lived in Tarragona and Barcelona (Spain), working as an IT consultant.\n\nOn 14 June 2016, he was arrested by the Spanish Guardia Civil in Tarragona for arms trafficking.\n\nCao de Benós comes from a Spanish noble family. His paternal ancestors were the barons of Les, marquesses of Rosalmonte and counts of Arjelejo, Grandees belonging to the highest-ranking members of the Spanish nobility, who were linked for centuries to the Spanish Army and Navy. Many of them were defenders of Carlism and Francoism. Although Cao de Benós's grandfather was born rich, he lost his inheritance and ended up working as a guard for Repsol-Butano.\n\nCao de Benós founded the Korean Friendship Association in 2000, purchasing and establishing his privately owned domain name which whilst claiming to be officially sanctioned is privately owned and registered in his name. It includes a media section and a web-shop where badges, North Korean music and other items can be bought online. Goods purchased are sent from Spain.\n\nWhen asked about Kim Jong-un in 2009 he answered that he never heard of him and told that the story about Kim Jong-un being the heir of Kim Jong-il is made up by South Korean intelligence.\n\nCao de Benós has regularly visited Pyongyang, assisting with press pass application and acting as a translator for the foreign press (constantly under supervision of local authorities) and helping to schedule business meetings. Cao de Benós acts for a commission as an intermediary in such meetings and in line with having no official paid employment is not paid any base salary. He has written numerous articles on matters relating to the political situation in the Korean Peninsula, dissemination of state propaganda as well as giving press interviews. Cao de Benós is one of the few foreigners to claim to follow the North Korean party line; he continues as president of his company the Korean Friendship Association. Cao de Benós is featured in the documentaries \"Friends of Kim\" and \"The Propaganda Game\".\n\nIn July 2016, Cao de Benós founded a bar called Pyongyang Cafe in Tarragona, which is decorated with North Korean propaganda posters and features regular talks on subjects such as tourism. The café closed to the public in March 2017 and became a members-only establishment for KFA members.\n\nCao de Benós has also received widespread criticism from the Western press for, among other things, trying to restrict the freedom of expression of journalists from outside countries. He has expelled members of the \"Association of Friendship with Korea\" for \"disrespect\". He has also been accused of threatening and intimidating journalists critical of North Korea. When Andrew Morse of ABC News visited the country in 2004, invited by the Association, he was accused of using sensationalist language to describe Kochang farm cooperatives. Once in Pyongyang, Cao de Benós broke into and searched through Morse's hotel room, confiscated his tapes, damaged his laptop and forced him to sign an apologetic letter in order to leave the country.\n\nWhilst he is authorized to \"promote and develop cultural relations,\" Cao de Benós has been criticized for presenting himself as a North Korean government employee and KFA as an official North Korean entity, neither of which are true.\n\nCao de Benós has been criticized for charging over twice as much as similar tour organizers to bring filmmakers, artists and tourists to the country. In exchange for these higher prices, he promises exclusive access, although the attractions on his itinerary are comparable to those on any other tour. Furthermore, Cao de Benós has historically failed to secure permits and permissions for even standard, relatively highly-accessible attractions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103647", "title": "Magallanes, Cavite", "text": "Magallanes, Cavite\n\n', officially the ', (), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality is named after Ferdinand Magellan.\n\nMagallanes began its history as a barrio called \"Panitan\", then a part of the municipality of Maragondon. Panitan was derived from the Tagalog word \"\"panit\"\", meaning \"to remove the bark of a tree\". Long before the coming of the Spaniards, there grew along the mountainside of this barrio big trees called \"bitangcol\" which provide a source of income for the people. The barks of the trees are removed (panitan) and used as containers for storing palay or unhusked rice. The fibers of the barks were removed and twined into durable ropes. Because of this unusual occupation of the people the barrio came to be known as Panitan or Banitan.\n\nThe first inhabitants of Panitan were Isidro Baltao, Glicerio Manalo, Florentino Mojica, and Ignacio Arat. Time came when the people, tired of travelling the long distance to the poblacion of Maragondon, decided to seek the separation of the barrio and its conversion into an independent municipality. Isidro Baltao headed a three-man delegation to Manila to petition the Spanish Governor-General Domingo Moriones for the conversion of Panitan into a town.\n\nWhile still in Manila, Baltao and his companions were walking along the paved streets of Intramuros when they came upon Magallanes street. There and then, they decided to recommend that the new municipality be named Magallanes in honor of Ferdinand Magellan. The governor-general was said to have been impressed by the name Magallanes, and he also named the barrios of the new town after Spanish leaders and missionaries like Urdaneta, Ramirez, Pacheco, and Medina. Other streets of the town were also named after prominent Spaniards like \"Jovellar, Salcedo, Anda, Colon, San Jose,\" and \"San Isidro\". The principal street was named \"Real\" (Royal), in honor of the Spanish king. Another street bore the name of \"De Guia\" after the patron saint of the town, Nuestra Señore de Guia.\n\nBarrio Panitan, renamed Magallanes, became an independent municipality on 15 July 1879. The first gobernadorcillo of Magallanes was Anastacio Diones. The designation gobernadorcillo was changed to capitan municipal shortly before the outbreak of the Philippine Revolution. Juan Bello, a former capitan municipal, was the leader of Filipino revolutionists again Spain. When the Americans came the title, capitan municipal was changed to municipal president.\n\nIn 1904, the town was reverted to a barrio of Maragondon when its annual income became insufficient to maintain its status as an independent municipality. It was only in 1916 that Magallanes once again became a town.\n\nMagallanes is situated about south of Manila. Maragondon bounds the town on the north while the municipality of General Emilio Aguinaldo borders the north-east. Alfonso shares its southeast limits, while Nasugbu, Batangas is at the southern end. Classified as one of the upland communities of the province, Magallanes is situated about above sea level.\n\nMagallanes is politically subdivided into 16 barangays.\n\n\nIn the , the population of Magallanes, Cavite, was people, with a density of .\n\nAlthough the main source of livelihood in Magallanes is agriculture, it is evident that there has been a shift in emphasis from rice farming to coffee production because of the growing market demand for coffee. This is revealed in a study made by the Provincial Development Staff at Trece Martires City. Another reason is that the production of rice, corn and a wide variety of vegetables and fruits is more than sufficient to satisfy the nutritional demand of the population.\n\nHowever, there is a large deficit in livestock and poultry production, which has been relegated to a backyard industry. To solve this problem there is need to encourage the establishment of livestock and poultry farms on a commercial scale. The local development plan calls for the introduction of high-yielding breeds and the conversion of idle lands into grazing pastures.\n\nMagallanes has a potential labor force of 5,066 or 52.3 per cent of the total population. However, only 2,725 or 54 per cent of this number are economically active. The town has also a low unemployment rate of 3.7 per cent with only 100 of this labor force listed as unemployed. The existence of large and productive agricultural lands offers a wide variety of economic activities. The agricultural sector absorbs as much as 82 per cent of the labor force, while the service sector comprising teachers and government employees and workers account for only 15.6 per cent. A negligible 2.4 per cent are absorbed by the manufacturing, transportation and other commercial industries.\n\nIn 1980 the municipality’s 2,250 families with an average of four members per family, earned a total of P 17,992,882, showing an average family income of P 7,997.00. About 71.9 per cent of the number belonged to the low group while 24.1 per cent comprised the middle class group. Only about 4 per cent of the population constituted the high income group. About 54 per cent or 1,223 families fall below the food threshold of P 5,272.86 and 1,781 or 79 per cent were below the total threshold of P 9,895.87.\n\nThe 1980 economic survey shows that the municipality had 2,043 households occupying 2,015 dwelling units, or a slight shortage of 28 housing units. Majority of the dwellings were of strong materials, including wood, galvanized iron, and concrete. The large percentage of houses using concrete may be due to the presence of a large gravel deposit comprising more than 300 hectares located in barangays Ramirez and Urdaneta. Plans for its development is now under study by the provincial government coordination with the Bureau of Mines.\n\nIn terms of health and sanitation Magallanes is deficient in health personnel and facilities. It lacks one doctor, one nurse, one dentist and two barangay health stations. The low awareness of proper sanitation and nutrition among the people, especially those of the lower class, aggravates the present health condition in the municipality.\n\nTransportation within and outside the town is mainly by tricycles and jeepneys. It has approximately 77.639 kilometers of road, 43.922 kilometers being classified as primary, 19.217 secondary, and 15.500 tertiary road. It has one national road with a length of 22.35 kilometers, one provincial road extending 0.263 kilometer, eight municipal roads with a total length of 3.026 kilometers, and 18 barangay roads totalling 52 kilometers.\n\nElectricity in the municipality is served by MERALCO, which serves almost every part of the municipality. Water is supplied by the Magallanes Water System although some areas get their water from artesian wells, open wells, and springs.\n\nPopulation growth is relatively low in Magallanes due to outmigration. The lack of employment and educational opportunities has caused the skilled workers to settle elsewhere.\n\nThe following are the elected officials of the town elected last May 13, 2019 which serves until 2022:\n\nThe following is a list of town heads of Magallanes since it became a municipality:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103654", "title": "Eurasian water shrew", "text": "Eurasian water shrew\n\nThe Eurasian water shrew (\"Neomys fodiens\"), known in the United Kingdom as the water shrew, is a relatively large shrew, up to long, with a tail up to three-quarters as long again. It has short, dark fur, often with a few white tufts, a white belly, and a few stiff hairs around the feet and tail. It lives close to fresh water, hunting aquatic prey in the water and nearby. Its fur traps bubbles of air in the water which greatly aids its buoyancy, but requires it to anchor itself to remain underwater for more than the briefest of dives.\n\nLike many shrews, the water shrew has venomous saliva, making it one of the few venomous mammals, although it is not able to puncture the skin of large animals, nor that of humans. Highly territorial, it lives a solitary life and is found throughout the northern part of Europe and Asia, from Britain to Korea.\n\nThe Eurasian water shrew grows to a length of about long with a tail length of and weight of . The dense short fur on the head, back and sides is greyish-black. The underparts are dirty white and are sharply demarcated from the dorsal surface. Sometimes they are tinged with rusty brown or occasionally are entirely dark grey. There is a white spot just behind the eye and often another near the small, rounded ear which is nearly hidden in the fur. The nose is black and the snout long and tapering. The sharp, mostly white teeth are tipped with red, typical of the shrew subfamily Soricinae. The rusty colour comes from deposits of iron which serve to harden the enamel and which are concentrated in the tips of the teeth, particularly the molars which are the teeth most subject to wear. The female has five pairs of nipples. The legs are short and the hind feet are powerful, with a fringe of short, stiff hairs on the outer edge, both of which features assist while it is driving its body through the water. The tail is slender and has a keel of short white hairs on the underside. This shrew often utters shrill cries as it scurries about.\n\nIts karyotype has 2n = 52 and FN = 98.\n\nThe Eurasian water shrew is found throughout Europe with the exception of Iceland, Ireland, certain Mediterranean islands and the Balkans. In Asia, its range extends from western Siberia and Asia Minor to North Korea and the Pacific coast of Siberia. It rarely strays far from water and is found in and around ditches, streams, ponds, watercress beds, fish ponds, damp meadows and rough bushy ground adjoining water.\n\nOutside the breeding season, both male and female Eurasian water shrews maintain a territory but during the breeding season, only the females do so. At this time the males wander about visiting various female territories which indicates a promiscuous mating system without pair bonding. On the whole they are solitary animals that seem to mutually avoid each other and there is no social hierarchy.\n\nThe breeding season extends from April to September and much of the courtship takes place in the water. It either uses pre-existing burrows or digs its own. The nesting chamber is lined with moss, dry grass and leaves. Litters of four to eight or more young are born after a twenty-four-day gestation period. The young are tiny and helpless at birth. Their eyes open at fifteen to eighteen days and they are fully weaned at about seven weeks. Females can produce two or three litters a year. The juveniles disperse after weaning, setting up their own territories. They are sexually mature at six to eight months and their life expectancy is about three years.\n\nThe Eurasian water shrew is active both night and day and is thoroughly at home in the water. Its short fur holds air and the skin does not get wet when it swims. When it emerges from the water it enters one of its many burrows and any moisture adhering to the fur is absorbed by the earth walls. It mostly feeds on aquatic organisms which are caught while it is swimming. It can remain underwater for twenty seconds before it has to surface to breathe. Larger prey items can be subdued by the toxic secretions from its submaxillary glands. They feed on crayfish, water snails, small fish, aquatic larvae, insects, spiders, amphibians, especially newts and small rodents are also eaten. It also feeds on land on such things as insect larvae.\n\nThe Eurasian water shrew has a pair of glands under its jaw which produce venom, and this has been shown to be potent against the field vole (\"Microtus agrestis\"), and lethal at a minimum dose of fifteen milligrams per kilogram body weight. The venom consists of a paralytic peptide which has been patented for use in neuromuscular therapy.\n\nTheir behavior in captivity is described in Konrad Lorenz's book \"King Solomon's Ring\".\n\nThe International Union for Conservation of Nature lists the Eurasian water shrew as being of \"Least concern\" in its Red List of Threatened Species. This is because it has a large population distributed across a wide range and its population seems fairly stable. In some areas habitat degradation is occurring and wetlands are being drained but not to such an extent as to increase the status to \"Vulnerable\". Other possible threats include agricultural products and sewage which may pollute waterways and reduce the availability of food. In western Spain, a separate subspecies (\"N. f. niethammeri\") has a very limited range and may be declining in numbers.\n"}
{"id": "2103655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103655", "title": "Mendez, Cavite", "text": "Mendez, Cavite\n\n', officially the ', (), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality of Mendez-Nuñez was originally known as \"\"Gahitan\"\", one of the many barrios of Indang. The name was derived from the word \"\"gahit\"\" meaning \"to cut\", because the people then had to cut down tall and thick cogon grass that abounded in the place in order to clear areas for agricultural and residential purpose.\n\nAs time went on, the number of houses in Gahitan increased so that the sitio eventually became a barrio and finally a full-fledged town on 1 December 1875, thanks to Governor-General Jose Malcampo y Monje (1874-1877). Malcampo incorporated the three barrios of Gahitan, Palocpoc and Anuling into one independent municipality called Méndez Núñez, after a Spanish naval officer and close friend, Commodore Castro Méndez Núñez. In 1856, when they were still Spanish naval officers, Malcampo and Mendez-Nuñez, established the first Masonic lodge in Kawit under a charter from the Grand Lodge of Portugal. The friendship of these two officers had been tested in many a battle against Muslim pirates in Mindanao.\n\nPedro Aure was the gobernadorcillo of Mendez during its first year as a municipality in 1876. Cayetano Aure, perhaps a relative of Pedro, was the first and only capitan municipal of Mendez during the First Philippine Republic (1899-1901). Pedro’s son, Marcelino Aure, became a famous general during the Philippine Revolution. His nom de guerre was \"Alapaap\" (Cloud).\n\nMendez continued to be a municipality from 1875 to 15 October 1903 when, under \"Public Act No. 947\" of the Philippine Commission reduced the 22 municipalities of Cavite to nine. Mendez and Bailen (now General Aguinaldo) were incorporated into the municipality of Alfonso. \nBut 12 years later, on 1 January 1915, Mendez regained its independent status as a municipality of Cavite Province.\n\nThe municipality of Mendez is located from Metro Manila and is accessible via Aguinaldo Highway. It is one of the smallest and upland towns of Cavite province. It is bounded to the north and east by Indang, to the south by Tagaytay, and to the west by Alfonso.\n\nMendez is politically subdivided into 24 barangays.\nIn the , the population of Mendez, Cavite, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe following are the duly elected officials of Mendez, Cavite for the term 2016-2019:\n\n"}
{"id": "2103658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103658", "title": "Naic", "text": "Naic\n\n', officially the ', (), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people. Naic has a land area of 76.24 square kilometers.\n\nNaic, Cavite is one of the former barrios of Maragondon, along with 1) Magallanes (named after Magellan, the Portuguese explorer who was recognized as the first world circumnavigator, after reaching the Philippines under the Spanish Flag); 2) Bailen (named after a town in Spain wherefrom the Friar Baltazar Narváez came, but renamed and now, General Emilio Aguinaldo, after the first President of the First Philippine Republic; 3) Tagaytay City, a former part of Alfonso; 4) Alfonso, (named after the King Alfonso who ascended the throne as a youngster, after his mother, a child Queen abdicated—after being enthroned by a General -later Count- Narváez); and 5) Ternate (a town with three names, Ternate, Wawa, Barra. Ternate was the name of the home in Mollucas of the settlers who were sent by the Dutch and Portuguese to the Philippines to fight the Chinese Pirates; Wawa was the name for this Shores-rich little site; Barra was the name given for this \"Docking Place or Site\" of Maragondon.)\n\nBetter spelled NAIC as an acronym-for Nuestra Adorada (or Amable or Amante) Inmaculada Concepción, Spanish for Our Adorable (or Amiable or Loving) Immaculate Conception, referring to the Patroness of the then barrio, Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception, whose feast the barrio celebrated (and the town continues to celebrate) on December 8.\n\nNaic has several histories when it comes to the origin of its name. One theory suggests that it originated when a Spaniard asked a native about what the pig is doing and he said \"\"na-igik\"\" (crying sound of pigs), thus later on developed as Naic. Another one suggests that it came from a Spanish word \"\"Ca - Naic\"\" meaning \"neighboring place\" by which its mother town was the present Maragondon. Another theory put forward is that Naic is an acronym for Nuestra Adorada Immaculada Concepcion. The town's name is the Spanish translation of the town's patron saint, Our Lady of Immaculate Concepcion. As an honor and reverence to Our Lady of Immaculate Conception, the town folks celebrate annually their town fiesta on every 8th day of December.\n\nThousands of years ago, Naic was a part of the towering Mt. Taal. Naic was the western slope of the volcano until its internal eruption which led to the sinking of its apex in its present condition.\n\nWhen the Jesuits discovered Maragondon in 1627, its total land area covers the whole of Naic, Ternate, and Magallanes (Vance; Saulo and De Ocampo, 1990; Medina, 1992). In 1758, the Jesuits founded a community in the western bank of the river (present Barangay Muzon) and made it into a \"sitio\" with a visita still under Maragondon.\n\nIn 1791, the community was finally made into a town with its population still in the western bank. The town was named Naic after the old archaic word \"can(ia)ayic\" meaning \"town near one another\" or \"the other side\" (Medina, 1992), while Alfredo B. Saulo contends that Naic is a highly cultured Tagalog word meaning \"suburbs\" or \"countryside\". Also in Malaysia, Naic means \"overboard\".\n\nMoreover, due to the closeness of Naic to the population in Maragondon, Naic transferred its center in 1798 to the eastern bank of the river (the present poblacion)(Medina, 1992). Also during this time, the town was already a flourishing fishing and agricultural village (Villanueva, 1982). On the other hand, the church, since 1797, was under the secular clergy who were mostly Filipinos (Jose, 1997; Medina, 1992). Upon the \"Royal Audiencia\" issued in 1849, the church was transferred to the Dominican Friars in 1865. The Dominicans upon finding out that the land in Naic was fertile, built the Casa Hacienda de Naic (the present Naic Elementary School) to be the administration building for the overseer of the larger friar lands in Naic (Jose, 1996).\n\nIn the Philippine Revolution of 1896-1898, all the names of the towns in Cavite were filipinized, thus, the name of Naic was changed to \"Maguagi\". Furthermore, five events significant to the revolution took place in Naic. These were as follows:\n\n1. The designing of the first official flag of the country which took place in Sulok, Naic, Cavite (the present Velamart).\n\n2. The creation of the Naic Military Agreement, a document by which Andres Bonifacio sought to assert his authority as leader of the Philippine revolutionary government in defiance of Emilio Aguinaldo's government initiated in Tejeros (Casa Hacienda de Naic).\n\n3. The appointment of the first cabinet ministers including the Departments of Interior, Justice, Finance, and Defence (Casa Hacienda de Naic).\n\n4. The Battle of Timalan where the Filipino revolutionists won overwhelmingly against the Spanish troops (Timalan, Naic Cavite).\n\n5. The Battle of Naic where Aguinaldo declared the town to be his last defense (Poblation) (Medina, 1996, de Achutegui, 1972; Aguinaldo, 1964; T.A. Agoncillo, 1963).\n\nThe prominent people who paved the way for the revolution in Naic included former gobernadorcillos and capitanes municipal; namely, Cirilo Arenas, Gregorio (Goyo) Jocson, in whose house General Aguinaldo recuperated from illness, Benito Poblete, and Tobal Bustamante.\n\nA sprinkling of upperclassmen could also be found in other towns of Cavite whose wealth came from rural landholdings, urban properties, and/or successful business ventures. The Cuencas of Bacoor, the Papa, De Castro, Valentin, and Arenas families of Naic, the Darwins of Indang, who were/are Spanish nobilities and margraves with ranks of Duques, Marquis, Condes and Vizcondes, pertained to this class.\n\nNaic is also the very first town in the country to pass an ordinance banning pigs from the street. It had been a perennial problem of the country. It is one of the greatest achievement of Naic because the other towns followed suit.\n\nThe municipality of Naic is located on the western part of the province along the shorelines of Manila Bay. Trece Martires City and Tanza bound it to the east. Situated beyond the southern portion of Naic is Indang and the western boundary is shared with Ternate and Maragondon. Travel between Naic and Metro Manila covers 47 Kilometers. Majority of the upland towns and some of those in lowlands trade with Naic due to its strategic geographical position. The coordinates of Naic are 14°32 latitude and 120°768 longitude.\n\nThe Municipality of Naic is politically subdivided into 30 barangays.\nIn the , the population of Naic, was people, with a density of .\n\nIt is the 9th most populous and the 14th most densely populated municipality/city in the province. The massive increase can be observed in the year 1990 when industrialization was introduced in the Province of Cavite (including Naic). Investors established their businesses in different industrial estates that magnetized people to migrate to Cavite due to job opportunities the province offers. Another factor attributed to the increase of population is the mushrooming of housing subdivisions (such as Belmont Homes in Palangue and Dorothea Homes in both Halang and Calubcob). Natural increase also contributes to the increase in population. The population density of the municipality based on the 2015 census was 1,500 inhabitants per square kilometre or 3,800 inhabitants per square mile.\n\nAmong the barangays in Naic, Barangay Ibayo Silangan has the biggest population with 11,250 people while Barangay Balsahan has registered the smallest population with 478 people.\n\nThe population of Naic have grown from the past few years. In 1990 the recorded population count by the Philippine Statistics Authority is about 52,000, about 73,000 in year 2000 (which increased by 3.45%), 87,058 is recorded in 2007 (2.46% increase), about 88,000 in 2010 (0.39% increase) and 111,454 in 2015 (increased by 4.60%).\n\nThe vernacular language is Filipino, based mostly on the Tagalog of surrounding areas, and this Tagalog form used is the Manila form of spoken Tagalog which essentially become the lingua franca of the Philippines, having spread throughout the archipelago through mass media and entertainment. English is the language most widely used in education and business.\n\nThe Catholic population of Naic is primarily served by the Diocesan Shrine of the Immaculate Conception Church. And there has been fast growth of other Protestant denominations including Iglesia ni Cristo. Aglipayan Church is the third majority denomination in town.\n\nThe following are the elected officials of the town elected last May 13, 2019 which serves until 2022:\n\nEducation in the Philippines is managed and regulated by the Department of Education (DepEd), Commission on Higher Education (CHED) and Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA). DepEd is responsible for the K–12 basic education; it exercises full and exclusive control over public schools and nominal regulation overprivate schools, and it also enforces the national curriculum that has been put in place since 2013. CHED and TESDA, on the other hand, are responsible for higher education; CHED regulates the academically-oriented universities and colleges while TESDA oversees the development of technical and vocational education institutions and programs in the country.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103660", "title": "Noveleta", "text": "Noveleta\n\n', officially the ', (), formerly known as Tierra Alta during the Spanish colonial era is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nWith the continuous expansion of Metro Manila, the municipality is now included in the Manila built-up area which reaches Lipa City in its southernmost part.\n\nNoveleta was originally a barrio of the municipality of Kawit (Cavite El Viejo) and some part of Cavite City (Dalahican). It was made an independent pueblo on January 5, 1868 by Gen. Jose dela Gandera y Navarro. Ironically, Noveleta was referred to by the Spaniards as \"Tierra Alta\" meaning higher ground in view of the fact that it was more elevated than Cavite la Punta (now Cavite City). The name Noveleta is said to have originated from \"Nueva Isla\" or (new island), a tern frequently used by the spaniards, referring to the locality. In the early years of the Spanish regime visiting priests described the place as \"Nueva Late\" (New fate or Fortune). In the course of time these terms Nueva Isla and Nueva Lete involved of Noveleta. But one legend tells the story of a beautiful maiden named \"Violeta\" who was betrothed by her father to a Spanish officer against her will. The unhappy girl, who was already engaged to a young Katipunero, committed suicide on the eve of her wedding to the Spaniard. The Spanish officer cried in deep anguish for the loss of his love, \"Madre de Dios\", \"no Violeta!\" The phrase \"No Violeta\" eventually became \"Noveleta\". Noveleta has the distinction of leading a pivotal role in the Philippine revolutionary activities in Cavite. It used to be the seat of the Magdiwang Council of the Katipunan, the counterpart of the Magdalo Council under Gen. Emilio Aguinaldo. The capture of the Noveleta Tribunal on August 31, 1896 was led by Gen. Mariano Alvarez, founder and president of the Sangguniang Bayan Magdiwang. Its revolutionary name is Magdiwang, meaning to celebrate a momentous event. The revolution against the Spanish colonialism produced five brave and able military generals and tacticians from Noveleta in the persons of Gen. Mariano Alvarez, Gen. Santiago Alvarez (Son of Mariano), Gen. Pascual Alvarez (Cousin of Pascual), Gen. Luciano San Miguel. He was the Last President of the Philippine Revolutionary Government after the capture of Gen. Mariano Trias (First Vice President of the Phlippines) and Gen. Miguel Malvar of Batangas. Another hero is Gen. Ariston Villanueva who together with General Santiago Alvarez emerged as the hero of the Battle of Calero.\n\nNoveleta is the smallest municipality of the Cavite province. It is away from Metro Manila and is accessible by land transport modes. The municipality is bordered on the north by Cavite City, on the west by Manila Bay and Rosario. It is flanked by General Trias on the south and Kawit on the east.\n\nNoveleta has a total land area of 16.43 km², which is roughly 5.41% of the total land area of the province of Cavite. The municipality has 16 barangays. Based on the 2007 Annual Report of the Municipality, the major land use include, residential, agricultural, saltbeds and fishponds and industrial.\n\nNoveleta is politically subdivided into 16 barangays \nIn the , the population of Noveleta was people, with a density of .\n\nThe majority of the people of Noveleta are Roman Catholic, Aglipayan Church is the second majority here in town but there has been fast growth of other Protestant denominations including Iglesia ni Cristo, MCGI, Baptist, Pentecostal, Mormonism, Jehovah's Witness, Born Again Christian. With the influx of migrants from other provinces other non-Christian faiths particularly Islam is practiced in the town.\n\nThe agricultural sector in Noveleta centers on crop production, fishery, livestock and poultry raising. Fishery is a major source of livelihood in the municipality. Around 100 hectares are utilized for aquaculture and fishpond activities, most of which are in Barangay San Rafael II, III, and IV. The main products of Noveleta include milkfish, prawns, crabs, tilapia, mussels and oysters. The fishponds are converted to saltbeds during the dry season. A big enterprise, which spurs the output in the service sector, is the presence of the Noveca Industries in Barangay Santa Rosa II. Manufacturing is limited to light and medium industries such as sash factories and several garment factories. Other activities are the manufacture of furniture, iron gates and grills, and hollowblocks. The construction boom, on the other hand, is due to the mushrooming of residential subdivisions in the area. A number of commercial establishments are located along Noveleta's major thoroughfares. Small retail stores, service firms, and some medium scale enterprises, dot the municipality. There are specialty stores engaged in the trade of construction supplies and materials, auto parts, furniture and home decors, sportswear as well as fresh food items like meat, fruits and vegetables. Also based in the town are three pharmacies, eleven bakeries and two gasoline stations. The tourism industry in Noveleta relies mainly on its coastline with the Manila Bay bordering its western portion. Restaurants, cottages, conference rooms, and social halls/pavilions are situated along the beaches of Barangay San Rafael III and IV.\n\nThe Philippine Postal Corporation manages one post office situated in the municipal building. The Bureau of Telecommunications of the Department of Transportation and Communication presently operates its office at the Old Noveleta Tribunal. PLDT, Globe and Digitel Telephone Company provide telephone services in the municipality.\n\nFive banks operating in the town of Noveleta are GSIS Family Bank, Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI) Family Bank, the Unlad Rural Bank of Noveleta, the Luzon Development Bank and the Rizal Commercial Banking Corporation (RCBC). There are other financial institutions in the area extending credit for investment ventures.\n\nThe agricultural activities in the municipality are gradually decreasing due to urbanization. The current trend in Noveleta is in conversion of land from agriculture use to urban settlements. This may be attributed to its growing population and its proximity to Metro Manila and the Cavite Economic Processing Zone in Rosario, a 10-minurte drive from Noveleta. Majority of Noveleta's population is involved in commercial and industrial activities. Historical and tourism landmarks include the Noveleta Tribunal, Calero Bridge, Villamar Beach Resort I, Villamar Beach Resort II, Lido Beach Resort, TIP Beach Resort and the New Noveleta Cockpit Arena. The strips of beaches in Noveleta combined with the town's proximity to major urban centers make it an ideal tourist attraction. Noveleta is included in the \"Manila Build-up Area\" which makes it ideal for housing and commercial developments. It is only 3 kilometers from Cavitex exit and also 3 kilometers to Sangley Point in Cavite City, the next International Airport.\n\nNoveleta is best accessed through jeeps, and mini buses that frequently ply its major thoroughfares, specifically the roads that lead to Rosario, Bacoor, and Cavite City. Tricycles and pedicabs service the tight and cool backroads of the municipality.\n\nThe Manila Electric Company (Meralco) distributes the power supply of Noveleta from the Luzon Grid of the National Power Corporation (NPC).\n\nThe Metropolitan Waterworks System in Noveleta provides the water requirement of Noveleta.\nBut majority of the people in Noveleta uses Deep Well, specially on the remote area where the waterworks can't reach.\n\nThere are 39 schools in the municipality.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNoveleta has ten government health centers and one private clinic as of 1996. There is one private medical hospital located at Salcedo II. The municipality also has three ambulances to support the medical practitioners in responding to the needs of the populace.\n\nThe following are the elected officials of the town elected last May 13, 2019 which serves until 2022:\n\n"}
{"id": "2103661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103661", "title": "A. S. W. Rosenbach", "text": "A. S. W. Rosenbach\n\nAbraham Simon Wolf Rosenbach (July 22, 1876 – July 1, 1952) was an American collector, scholar, and seller of rare books and manuscripts. In London, where he frequently attended the auctions at Sotheby's, he was known as \"The Terror of the Auction Room.\" In Paris, he was called “Le Napoléon des Livres”, which translates to “The Napoleon of Books.\" Many others referred to him as “Dr. R.”, a “Robber Baron” and “the Greatest Bookdealer in the World”.\n\nRosenbach is credited with popularizing the collecting of American literature at a time when only European literature was considered collectible. He also advanced the idea of book collecting as a means of investment and published several articles and books to increase interest in rare books and manuscripts.\n\nHe bought and sold numerous items throughout his life, including eight Gutenberg Bibles, more than 30 Shakespeare's First Folio, a copy of the Bay Psalm Book and the manuscripts of \"Ulysses\" and \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\". The life-time total of his purchases is estimated to be worth more than $75,000,000 in 2019.\n\nHis philanthropic contributions include donating his collection of children's books to the Free Library of Philadelphia, establishing the Rosenbach Fellowship in Bibliography at the University of Pennsylvania and willing his estate to the Rosenbach Foundation, which established the Rosenbach Museum & Library.\n\nAbraham Simon Wolf Rosenbach was born on July 22, 1876 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He was referred to by many in the public as \"Abe\", with some close-friends calling him \"Rosy\" and \"Abie\" by his family. He was the youngest of the eight children of Morris Rosenbach (May 14, 1820 — May 8, 1885) and Isabella H. Polock (November 26, 1834 — July 25, 1906). His mother was born and raised in Philadelphia where she was an active member of the Jewish community, involved with the Female Hebrew Benevolent Society, the Jewish Orphans’ Society and Congregation Mikveh Israel. His father immigrated to the United States from Gunzenhausen in 1844. Shortly after he changed his first name from Meier to Morris and entered the shirt business, selling overalls and underwear. He became a U.S. Citizen in 1855. Morris and Isabella were married by Rabbi Isaac Leeser on November 11, 1857.\n\nAt the age of 9, Rosenbach began helping out in the shop of his maternal uncle, Moses Polock (May 14, 1817 — August 16, 1903), who was a well-known and somewhat eccentric antiquarian bookseller. Polock's famous shop was located at 406 Commerce Street in Philadelphia. It was there he learned how to determine book values, how to use bibliography and how to talk to collectors.\n\nAt the age of 11, Rosenbach started collecting books when he purchased an illustrated edition of \"Reynard the Fox\" at the auction house of Stanislaus Vincent Henkel. He lowered the price to $24 and allowed the young man to make weekly payments out of his school allowance for the book due to Henkel's working relationship with his Uncle Moses.\n\nIn June 1889, Rosenbach finished school at George Meade School and in the fall was enrolled at Central Manual Training School. His senior year, he served as editor-i chief of school's student newspaper, \"The Argus.\"\n\nIt was as a freshman at the University of Pennsylvania Rosenbach would make his first valuable purchase. He bought a first edition of Dr. Samuel Johnson's \"Prologue,\" which David Garrick recited at his first opening night as manager of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane in 1747. It was the first book printed by Horace Walpole at the Strawberry Hill Press. Rosenbach bought it for $3.60 at Henkel's auction house and later received an offer of $5,000 for the book, which he refused.\n\nAt Penn, Rosenbach took part in the Bibliophiles Club. In 1898, he earned his bachelor's in science from the University of Pennsylvania. He then was appointed to the university's Harrison Fellowship in English. He earned his Ph.D from the school in 1901, his thesis was titled \"The influence of Spanish literature in the Elizabethan and Stuart drama\".\n\nPhilip Hyman Rosenbach (September 29, 1863 — March 5, 1953 ) was Rosenbach's oldest brother. Before joining forces with his younger sibling, he ran a series of successful businesses. He briefly ran a stationery store at Third Street, just south of Market Street, with money borrowed from the family, before borrowing more money again to start the Savory Restaurant at 13th and Chestnut Streets. This venture would also be short lived. Next was a gift shop at 1320 Walnut Street, selling items like Christmas cards, prints, vases and statuettes. A.S.W. Rosenbach would work in the shop in his free time while in college. This business venture also struggled. But in 1903, with Polock's declining health, Philip convinced his uncle, his mother and his brother to use Polock's inventory to start up an antiques and book business. In this new venture, Rosenbach was responsible for dealing with books and his brother Philip antique furniture and art. The Rosenbach Company formed on June 22, 1903 and Polock died on August 16 that same year. The business was largely funded at first by Philadelphia collectors Clarence S. Bement and Joseph M. Fox. The first sale the brothers made was on October 25, 1903, selling two picture frames for $50 each. In 1927, Rosenbach wrote of his decision to leave the world of academia for a life of book selling, writing:\n\nAs Polock had no will, most of his store inventory went up for auction on March 9 and 10, 1904 by Stanislaus Vincent Henkels at the book auction rooms of Davis & Harvey at 112 Walnut Street. The brothers were able to buy most of the inventory. What remained of Polock's estate after the sale was sold to The Rosenbach company by Polock's sisters, Isabella Rosenbach, Sophia Binswanger and Miriam Wolf, for $1,000.\n\nThe auction included Polock's collection of children's literature, which consisted of 816 American children's books dating from 1682 to 1836. Rosenbach expanded on this collection throughout the years and donated it to the Free Library of Philadelphia in 1947, where it formed the beginning of the library's collection of early American children's books.\n\nThe Rosenbach Company originally operated out of the entire building at the former location of Philip Rosenbach's gift shop. In 1935, it expanded to encompass 1322 Walnut Street as well. As of 2019, the address is home to an IHOP.\n\nRosenbach worked with Henry E. Huntington to help assemble the collections of the Huntington Library in San Marino, California. He did the same for Henry Clay Folger at the Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington, D.C. Other famous clients included J. P. Morgan, Lessing Rosenwald, and Harry Elkins Widener.\n\nIn 1924, Rosenbach acquired James Joyce's \"Ulysses\" manuscript for $1,975. This angered the author, who was unsuccessful in raising the money to buy it back. He was also upset at the fact Rosenbach paid four times more at the same sale for a manuscript of Joseph Conrad's novel \"Victory\". In a letter to Harriet Shaw Weaver on May 24, 1924, he wrote of Rosenbach in a limerick, saying:\n\nA lifelong Philadelphian, Rosenbach and his brother lived at a four-storied 1865 townhouse at 2010 Delancey Place, from 1926 to 1952. In 1928, Rosenbach purchased the manuscript of Lewis Carroll's \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" for $77,000 at auction. The act angered many in Great Britain at the loss of the item. Rosenbach would go on to sell it for $97,000 and was eventually returned to Britain.\n\nRosenbach was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1927 and the American Philosophical Society in 1928. For the Antiquarian Society, he wrote and read two papers. The first in 1934 was titled \"The Libraries of the Presidents of the United States\" and the second 1938 named \"The First Theatrical Company in America\". Right before his death, he was working on a third paper called \"Some Discoveries in Early Pennsylvania-German Printing\".\n\nOn December 8, 1938, Rosenbach hosted a rare book auction at the Hotel Plaza in New York City for charity, raising $35,000 for the Distribution Committee of the American Funds for Jewish War Sufferers and the Committee for Christian Refugees. Special-guest auctioneers included Christopher Morley, Major Bowes and Dorothy Thompson.\n\nIn 1942, the two brothers liquidated their antique furniture inventory to strictly deal in books. They moved their newly-downsized collection to 1618 Locust Street, Philadelphia. This townhome was designed in 1850 by architect John Notman. The company would operate out of this building until the deaths of the two brothers.\n\nIn 1947, Rosenbach set a record when he bought a copy of the Bay Psalm Book for $151,000. During his lifetime, it is estimated he spent more than $75 million on his purchases.\n\nRosenbach wrote several articles on his own experiences, thoughts and stories around his life as an antique book dealer. These essays, originally published in The Saturday Evening Post and The Atlantic, were published as two books: \"Books and Bidders: The Adventures of a Bibliophile\" (1927) and \"A Book Hunter's Holiday: Adventures with Books and Manuscripts\" (1936). He also contributed to The Jewish Encyclopedia after writing several articles for he American Jewish Historical Society.\n\n\"The Unpublishable Memoirs\" (1917) was the first and only book of fiction Rosenbach ever produced. It consists of 11 mystery stories about the fictional character Robert Hooker, a bibliophile who is tired of being rejected by high society for his lack of money and takes his revenge by tricking the rich out of their rare books and art. A London edition was published in 1924 and a Czech version in 1925, however this version only contains the first of the 11 stories.\n\nRosenbach also produced several book checklist, including \"Early American Children’s Books\" (1933) as a standard reference.\n\nRosenbach was granted many honors during his life. In 1927, he received the honorary degree of associate engineering from the University of Pennsylvania. In 1945, the Jewish Theological Seminary of America awarded him a Doctor of Humane Letters. In 1947, he received a Legum Doctor from Dropsie College for Hebrew and Cognate Learning and another Doctor of Humane Letters from Amherst College.\n\nIn 1946, a book made by thirty of Rosenbach's friends, entitled \"To Dr. R\", featured a series of literary and bibliographical essays written in honor of his 70th birthday.\n\nAt the time of his death in 1903, he was Harbor-master of the Board of Commerce and Navigation of the State of New Jersey.\n\nRosenbach died on July 1, 1952 in Philadelphia at the age of 75. He was buried at Mount Sinai Cemetery.\n\nWriter Christopher Morley wrote of Rosenbach in his essay \"Notes on Rosy,\" which first appeared in the Saturday Review on December 24, 1927.\n\nShortly before his death, he bequeathed his estate to The Philip H. and A. S. W. Rosenbach Foundation, which had been established in 1950 by the two brothers to foster interest in books, paintings, and other works of art.\n\nIn 1954, the Rosenbach Museum & Library was established by testamentary gift of the Rosenbach's brother's collection. The museum, which includes his original libraries and residential areas, provides an intimate setting for visitors to explore the brothers' collections of rare books, manuscripts, furniture, silver, paintings, prints, drawings and sculpture. Items in the brother's collection include the only surviving copy of Benjamin Franklin’s first Poor Richard's Almanack and the manuscript of James Joyce's manuscript of \"Ulysses.\" The collection has since grown to include the papers of poet Marianne Moore, Bram Stoker's notes for Dracula, and the drawings of Maurice Sendak.\n\nThe Rosenbach brothers’ 1865 townhouse at 2010 Delancey Place is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Since 2003, the adjacent Maurice Sendak Building was added to the museum and offers spaces for public programs and exhibitions. On December 3, 2013, the Rosenbach Museum & Library officially became affiliated with the Free Library of Philadelphia, becoming \"The Rosenbach at the Free Library\".\n\nOn April 2, 2008, the Rosenbach Museum & Library received an official State Historical Marker by the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission in recognition of the lasting contributions of museum co-founder, Dr. A.S.W. Rosenbach. The commission commemorated Rosenbach's legacy as one of America's greatest rare book dealers and his lasting contributions to Philadelphia and beyond with a marker in front of the museum, located at 2008-2010 Delancey Place in the city's historic Rittenhouse Square neighborhood. The sign reads:\n\"Dr. A.S.W. Rosenbach (1876 – 1952) Among America’s most influential rare book dealers, he helped build many of the nation’s great libraries. He and his brother Philip established the Rosenbach Museum & Library to share their personal collection with the public. They lived on this block from 1926 to 1952.\"\n\nIn 1928, Rosenbach bestowed to the Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania a gift for the purpose of establishing a lecture series on bibliography and book history. Selected participants present about three lectures over two weeks at the university. The first Rosenbach Fellowship in Bibliography took place in 1931, with Christopher Morley as its first fellow. As of 2019, it's the longest continuously running series of bibliographical lectureships in the U.S. The University of Pennsylvania Press has published several of these lectures into full-length books.\n\nIn 2004, The Rosenbach Museum and Library commissioned writer Ben Katchor to create something to commemorate the museum's 50th anniversary. Bill Adair, the museum's director at the time, asked Katchor to create a graphic novel, but instead he partnered with Mark Mulcahy to create a musical. \"The Rosenbach Company: A Tragicomedy\" premiered the 2004 Philadelphia Fringe Festival and was performed at The Public Theater in New York City in 2006. The role of Abie Rosenbach was played by Mulcahy.\n\nToby Zinman praised the show in a 2004 review in Variety.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103662", "title": "Margaret of Mar, 31st Countess of Mar", "text": "Margaret of Mar, 31st Countess of Mar\n\nMargaret of Mar, 31st Countess of Mar (born 19 September 1940) is a Scottish hereditary peer and politician. She was a crossbench member of the House of Lords from 1975 to 2020 and was one of 92 hereditary peers elected to remain in the Lords in 1999. She is the holder of the original Earldom of Mar, the oldest peerage title in the United Kingdom. She is the only \"suo jure\" countess and was the only female hereditary peer in the House of Lords from 2014 to 2020. She is also a farmer and former specialist goats cheesemaker in Great Witley, Worcestershire.\n\nShe was born Margaret Alison Lane, the daughter of Millicent Mary Salton and James Clifton Lane, later James of Mar, 30th Earl of Mar, the heir presumptive of Lionel Erskine-Young, 29th Earl of Mar, his first cousin once removed (both were descended from a sister of John Goodeve-Erskine, 27th Earl of Mar).\n\nMargaret had two younger siblings: David of Mar, Master of Mar, and Lady Janet of Mar. In 1959, her father was officially recognised in the style \"of Mar\", and from that year his three children were also styled \"of Mar\", the name \"Lane\" being abandoned.\n\nWhen Margaret's father succeeded as 30th Earl of Mar in 1965 she became Lady Margaret of Mar, and her brother became The Master of Mar, Lord Garioch. When Lord Garioch died in 1967, Margaret became \"The Mistress of Mar\" as the elder heir-portioner presumptive in general of her father.\n\nWhen in 1975 her father the 30th Earl died, Lady Margaret became the 31st holder of the Mar earldom, the premier earldom of Scotland, and entered the House of Lords, making her maiden speech in April 1976. After the passing of House of Lords Act 1999, Lady Mar was elected to serve as one of the ninety-two hereditary peers retained in the House, where she sat as a crossbencher, meaning she is not aligned with any particular political party. She retired from the House on 1 May 2020.\n\nLady Mar held a number of positions within the House of Lords:\n\nLady Mar was also a member of the Joint Committee on Statutory Instruments, a member of the Lords Refreshment Committee, and a member of the panel of Deputy Chairmen of Committees.\nLady Mar was also secretary of the All Party Parliamentary Group on Pesticides and Organophosphates.\n\nLady Mar has also held a variety of non-political offices:\n\n\nIn the summer of 1989, while dipping her sheep through a tank of organophosphorous chemicals, Lady Mar was subjected to a splash of chemicals on her foot, and three weeks later developed headaches and muscular pains. She was eventually diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome.\nSince then Lady Mar has used her seat in the House of Lords almost exclusively to press the government to provide suitable care and support for patients with similar long-term and poorly understood medical conditions, and to better regulate the use of organophosphates. This also led to her membership on the EU sub-committees listed above.\n\nAs a consequence of her illness, Lady Mar founded the organisation \"Forward-ME\" to co-ordinate the activities of a fairly broad spectrum of charities and voluntary organisations working with patients with chronic fatigue syndrome, which is also known as myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME).\n\nLady Mar has married three times: first to Edwin Noel Artiss, then to John Salton, and finally to John Jenkin. From the first marriage she had a daughter: Susan Helen of Mar, Mistress of Mar (born 1963), the heir presumptive to her mother's peerage. Lady Susan is married to Bruce Alexander Wyllie, and has two daughters, Isabel and Frances.\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2103663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103663", "title": "Silang, Cavite", "text": "Silang, Cavite\n\n', officially the ', (), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSilang is located in the eastern section of Cavite. It is home to the Philippine National Police Academy, PDEA Academy, and International Institute of Rural Reconstruction head office.\n\nWith the continuous expansion of Metro Manila, the municipality is now part of the Manila's conurbation which spans southward toward Lipa City.\n\nThe name Silang was derived from the Tagalog word \"silanganan\" meaning \"eastern\", because the town is seated at the eastern portion of Cavite. A legend claims that it was coined from the Tagalog word \"isinilang\" or \"given birth to\", referring to the sudden and unusual emergence of the parish church. It may also refer to the new emergence of the land from the eruption of Taal Volcano on May 15, 1754. Whereas, three barangays of Silang are called Tubuan I, II, and III.\n\nThe traditional origins of the town are attributed to ten Bornean datus who sailed northward on board balangays and ended in Silang through Taal Lake. Its first settlers were Gat Hingiw, his wife Gat Kaliwanag, and their seven children, who later moved to different parts of the town and established their respective barangays. Gat Pandan stayed in the original community and developed the area.\n\nDuring the start of the Spanish colonization of the Philippines, tracts of land were given by the King of Spain to the conquistadores and their descendants, who collected tributes from the people residing in their acquired lands. Silang originally belonged to the \"encomienda\" (land grant) of Diego Jorge de Villalobos; his claim extended to what is today the towns of Carmona, Amadeo, Indang, Alfonso, General Trias, and Tanza. For many years, Silang was one of the biggest towns, by the 20th century its land area was reduced to its current size, as some of its former villages later became independent towns. Indang was the first to be granted town status in 1655. By the 19th century, the town lost land to the towns of Carmona and Amadeo, and by 1938, the town's southern lands were ceded to become part of the city of Tagaytay.\n\nThe Silang encomienda was later purchased from King Ferdinand VI of Spain for 2,000 pesetas on March 9, 1746 to prevent it from becoming a \"friar land\" like the other towns of Cavite, executed through the representation of Bernabe Javier Manahan and Gervacio dela Cruz.\n\nThe municipality of Silang is south of Manila. General Trias, Dasmariñas and General Mariano Alvarez bound it on the north, on the west by Amadeo, and Tagaytay on the south.\n\nSilang is politically subdivided into 64 barangays, 10 of them being disputed with Gen. Mariano Alvarez .\n\nIn the , the population of Silang, Cavite, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe majority of the people in Silang are adherents of the Christian Faith, composed of Roman Catholics, Protestants, and members of independent Christian groups. Majority of the Christian population is composed of Roman Catholics.\n\nOther Christian groups in the town include mainstream Protestants, congregations of Mormons, and other churches are also present in the town.\n\nWith the influx of migrants from other provinces, other non-Christian faiths, particularly Islam, is practiced in the town.\n\nSilang, like most of the towns in the province of Cavite, depends on a mainly agricultural economy. The primary crops grown in the area are coconut, coffee, corn, banana, pineapple, and tree crops like mango, lansones, caimito, santol, jackfruit, guava, and avocado. Fertile soils and abundant water sources make Silang suitable not only for common commercial crops but also for high value and exotic crops production. Most of the local farmers practice intercropping to increase land productivity and lessen soil erosion. Fruit production exceeds the demand of the municipality's population, thus, supply excesses are marketed to Metro Manila and neighboring urban centers. A number of poultry and swine farms are also located in some rural barangays.\n\nManufacturing and trade are Silang’s other major sources of income. Trade and investments grew tremendously with the influx of both Manila-based and foreign investors. Total investments were estimated at P2.5 billion between 1996 and 2004, which helped bring about the employment of 3,000 people. Despite the slow down of progress in 2004, Land Value still soared, allowing investors to infiltrate and start business. The investment trend resulted in the increase in the price of prime realty from P3,000 to P15,000 per square meter and from P150 to P500 per square meter for raw lots in interior barangays. Trade establishments in Silang include gasoline stations, convenience stores, lumber/hardware traders, groceries, resorts, and hotels.\n\nThe dry goods section of the Silang Public Market can now accommodate 228 stalls.\n\nSilang houses the Maguyam Industrial Complex and the Daichi Industrial Complex in addition to a total of ten factories operating outside the export processing zone.\n\nSilang can be reached by bus, or by jeepney. Coming from Manila, it will take 2 hours to reach the town proper. Silang is accessible by land transportation. Major road networks to and from Laguna and Batangas traverse it making the town a potential trading center for agricultural products while enjoying an environment that is free of traffic and pollution problems. Commuters are assured of smooth travel within the borders of the municipality with of its good road networks of approximately 187.83 km. Six major road projects were completed in 1996. These are the Bulihan Resettlement Area Road, the 8-km Kaong-Maguyam Road, the Caramanzana Drive connecting the Silang Public Market with Aguinaldo Highway, the 2-km Sabutan-Iba Road, the DPWH funded Santa Rosa-Silang-Tagaytay Road, and the Malabag Road\n\n\nElected officials:\n\nGobernadorcillo (Leader of 'pueblo' or bayan during Spanish Era):\nAs the effect of the Maura Law in 1893, the tribunal del pueblo was changed to\" tribunal municipal \"and leaders of municipalities were called \"Capitan Municipal\":\n\nDuring the American Period, the 2nd commission passed the Municipal Code (Act No. 82) that created Municipalities. The leaders were called \"Presidente Municipal\":\nFirst Elections were held 1903. (Silang Historical Society)\nMunicipal Mayor(s):\nPublic high schools:\n\nPrivate schools:\n\nCatholic schools:\nColleges, state colleges and universities:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103667", "title": "Matt Dillon (Gunsmoke)", "text": "Matt Dillon (Gunsmoke)\n\nMatt Dillon is a fictional character featured on both the radio and television versions of \"Gunsmoke\". He serves as the U.S. Marshal of Dodge City, Kansas, who works to preserve law and order in the western frontier of the 1870s. The character was created by writer John Meston, who envisioned him as a man \"...whose hair is probably red, if he's got any left. He'd be handsomer than he is if he had better manners but life and his enemies have left him looking a little beat up, and I suppose having seen his mother (back about 1840) trying to take a bath in a wooden washtub without fully undressing left his soul a little warped. Anyway, there'd have to be something wrong with him or he wouldn't have hired on as a United States Marshal in the heyday of Dodge City, Kansas.\" Notwithstanding Meston's original vision, the character evolved considerably during \"Gunsmoke\"s nine-year run on CBS Radio and its 20-year run on CBS Television (Columbia Broadcasting System).\n\nOn the radio series which ran from 1952 until 1961, Matt was portrayed by William Conrad, whose deep and resonant voice helped to project a larger than life presence. In the opening of most radio episodes, the announcer would describe the show as \"...the story of the violence that moved west with young America, and the story of a man who moved with it.\" William Conrad's Matt would take over, saying, \"I'm that man, Matt Dillon, United States Marshalthe first man they look for and the last they want to meet. It's a chancy job, and it makes a man watchful ... and a little lonely.\" Conrad's Matt provided bits of narration for many of the radio episodes, usually to help set the scene for the listener or to provide observations that assisted with character development. Inasmuch as the radio episodes were a bit darker and more violent in nature than the television episodes (especially in the radio series' early years), Conrad's Marshal Dillon could sometimes be quick to anger and unhesitating with respect to taking violent courses of action. Paradoxically, however, Conrad's Dillon often struggled internally with the need to utilize violence in order to fulfill his duties. He also struggled internally with the frequent needless tragedies that his job caused him to witness. These factors were the primary reasons that Conrad's Matt could occasionally become snappish and impatient with others (including his friends and allies). At all times, however, he managed to remain sufficiently in control of his emotions to perform his difficult job capably and impartially. Conrad's Matt would speak frequently of the still-fragile acceptance of law and order on the frontier and he would sometimes determine his course of action based upon what he honestly felt was necessary to preserve its long-term acceptance. In the radio version, Marshal Dillon spoke of actual persons who were well known in the history of the American West, including later Dodge City personage Wyatt Earp and Billy the Kid (whose \"supposed\" origins figured in the very first episode of the radio series), and he often referred to Wild Bill Hickok as being a close personal friend.\n\nIn the television version (which ran from 1955 until 1975), and subsequent TV-movies (1987 to 1994), Matt was portrayed by James Arness. Since most of the early television episodes were based on stories and scripts from the radio version, Arness's initial interpretation and portrayal was similar to William Conrad's. However, as the television version continued, Arness's Marshal Matt Dillon evolved in a number of ways. In the television version, Dillon became more resigned to the violent nature of his job, and he was generally less given to brooding about the dangers and tragedies inherent in it. Arness's Matt was somewhat more understanding and tolerant of people's foibles, and he was a bit more intuitive with respect to discerning persons who came to Dodge City with the intention of committing crimes. As Arness's Matt grew older and wiser, he became less inclined to use violence to subdue wrongdoers (plus less an emphasis on violence in later episodes of the series in the late 1960s and 1970s because of national society trends). However, he never hesitated to do so when the situation warranted. Dillon often tried to talk men out of \"trying him\", and would express a genuine regret to family members when he had to kill a man. In a salute to modern police dramas, one episode (\"The Fourth Victim\") has Matt Dillon try to stop a mad killer who is shooting Dodge citizens for no apparent reason.\n\nPossibly the angriest Matt Dillon ever got was after an accidental shooting (\"The Round Up\"). An old friend, Zel, had come to town during an influx of wild acting cattle drovers. Matt deputized him, and he and Matt were making rounds, one on each side of the street. When Matt was attacked in a saloon, Zel heard the commotion and came to his aid. Not expecting his friend, Matt turned, saw a figure with a gun, and shot him. As he died, Zel told Dillon that it wasn't his fault and he couldn't know Zel had crossed the street. Dillon soon after went into a rage, throwing drovers out of saloons and closing down the town. \n\nBecause of Arness's large (6 foot, 7 inches) physical presence, most of Matt's adversaries seemed overmatched unless there were several of them. In any event, only the toughest or the most foolhardy individuals dared challenge him to a fair fight. On a few occasions, he even proved himself capable of defeating burly bare-knuckle prize fighters, and he once noted that he had done a bit of boxing while serving in the Army. On television, Matt tended to be a man of fewer words, which can largely be attributed to the fundamental fact that television is a visual medium as opposed to the radio. Since the audience can see what is happening, there is less need to describe surroundings or events through the use of dialog. Arness's Matt thus naturally evolved into a \"strong, silent\" type of character who tended to act rather than talk at length about possible courses of action.\n\nPerhaps the best measure of Matt Dillon's endurance and physical prowess is how he survived the dozens of gunshot wounds and other assaults on his person during the 20-year run of the television series. In 2013, Marshall Trimble, the board president of the Arizona Historical Society and vice president of the Wild West History Association, documented all of Dillon's wounds from gunfire as well as his other brushes with death. According to Trimble, Dodge City's federal marshal was shot no less than 56 times, knocked unconscious 29 times, stabbed on three occasions, and poisoned once.\n\nDuring the 9-year run of the radio version of \"Gunsmoke\" and the 20-year run of the television version, surprisingly little was revealed about Matt's family history or about events in his past that may have shaped his views or his attitude toward his work. In both the radio and the television episodes, stories would occasionally center around individuals with whom he had once been close friends. Usually his experiences with these friends involved jobs on the periphery of law enforcement, such as tracking down rustlers or lost cattle for ranch owners. It was often implied that he had led an adventurous and sometimes nomadic lifestyle before becoming a U.S. Marshal and one of his old friends proudly stated that \"I knew Matt Dillon before he was civilized!\" On another occasion, Matt stated that he had once been a preacher but that \"...the pay was too small to support (his) gambling habit\". This was apparently said in jest, as there was no other mention of it during the series' run on radio or television. His earlier service in the United States Army was briefly mentioned.\n\nCertain of Matt's characteristics remained common to both the radio and television versions. Throughout both, Matt remained steadfast, honest, absolutely incorruptible, and dedicated to the cause of bringing genuine law and order to the violent and untamed American West. He rarely acted in an impetuous manner and he was invariably fair and impartial in the performance of his duties, even when it required subordinating his personal views concerning people or incidents. However, a certain edge was often evident in his voice when dealing with individuals who seemed destined to cause trouble and he would occasionally mete out harsh treatment to those who publicly challenged his authority or unwisely pushed him too far. He was fast and accurate with the single gun he carried and could easily outdraw almost any adversary, despite the fact that he virtually always allowed them to draw first. Matt was also notably compassionate toward those who had fallen on hard times or who had lost a loved one to crime or violence. \n\nIn both the television and the radio versions, his closest friends were his assistant Chester, town physician \"Doc\" Adams, and saloon-keeper Kitty Russell. These three individuals were among Matt's few real friends because he knew that he could trust them in any situation. In the television version, Chester was eventually replaced by Festus Haggen (Ken Curtis). Festus was an uneducated member of a large and roguish family, but he was a savvy plainsman who ultimately became a badge-wearing Deputy U.S. Marshal (a position that always eluded Chester).\n\nIn both the radio and television versions, the exact nature of Matt's relationship with Kitty Russell was deliberately kept somewhat vague. Kitty was portrayed by Georgia Ellis in the radio version and by Amanda Blake in the television version. In both versions, she was initially just another saloon hostess, and a popular story holds that she was actually a prostitute in the early radio episodes. However, this was never actually stated (or even implied) in any of the story lines and Kitty eventually acquired a considerable measure of respectability by becoming a part-owner (and ultimately the sole owner) of the thriving Long Branch Saloon. \n\nIn both the radio and television versions, Matt frequently dined and socialized with Kitty and he rarely showed more than polite interest in any other woman. Kitty was similarly devoted to Matt, Her job brought her into daily contact with many different men from all walks of life, but she seldom showed more than fleeting interest in any of them. It was evident that Kitty would have readily accepted Matt's proposal of marriage, but she was a realist and she once summed up their relationship with \"Matt Dillon's a man with no strings on him. Let's just say he's more mine than anybody else's.\" Kitty was well aware that Matt was reluctant to marry because the high-risk nature of his job could have made her a widow at any time. She nevertheless found this situation difficult to accept at times, and she would occasionally decide to leave Dodge City to pursue other opportunities or relationships. This occurred more often in the television episodes than it did in the radio episodes, and it typically occurred after Matt had inadvertently been thoughtless. Kitty always returned to Dodge City and to her duties at the Long Branch, though, and on occasion Matt would demonstrate a profound depth of feeling for her. \n\nIn any event, they always remained devoted to one another in their own unique fashion. Over time, Matt also learned to have considerable respect for Kitty's ability to spot female troublemakers. Whenever he disregarded Kitty's warnings about the intentions or character of a particular woman, he invariably regretted it.\nAn early (November 29, 1952) radio episode that was simply titled \"Kitty\" provided a particularly significant insight into a major reason for the affinity that the two felt toward one another. Matt invites Kitty to a public dance and she is reluctant to accept for fear that she will be viewed with disdain due to her vocation as a saloon hostess. Matt is persistent and Kitty eventually relents, but her instincts prove correct. She is shunned and treated rudely by the respectable citizens in attendance, including a few men who avidly seek her company in other venues. \n\nGenuinely hurt, Kitty abruptly leaves the dance in tears and Matt becomes uncharacteristically angry with several individuals who imply that it is improper for a U.S. Marshal to be seen in such company. Subsequently, Matt seeks Kitty out to comfort her and reassure her that she will always have his admiration, affection, and respect, regardless of the views of others. Kitty is moved and cheered by Matt's gesture and the episode ends with the two sharing a private dance in an empty barroom. Matt's sincerity is obvious inasmuch as he himself sometimes finds that the respectable citizens of Dodge City regard him with trepidation (and even suspicion) because his job involves being \"...paid to handle a bad element.\" It is apparent that the incident at the dance has considerably strengthened the bond and the trust between Matt and Kitty.\n\nIn a 1949 audition show (or pilot) for the radio series, the character was named \"Mark Dillon\", but by 1952, when the regular series aired, the name had been changed to Matt Dillon. When the program came to television in 1955, the first episode was introduced by John Wayne in a brief film clip in which Wayne predicted that James Arness would become a major star. He went on to play the part for the next twenty years. \n\nA popular story holds that Wayne himself had been offered the part and had turned it down. Charles Marquis Warren, who produced the first year of the television version of \"Gunsmoke\" and made the major casting decisions, stated that he had jokingly asked Wayne whether he would be interested in the part in a casual social setting. He added that Wayne had indicated in no uncertain terms that he had no interest whatsoever. (Wayne was arguably the cinema's foremost box office attraction at the time.) Warren stated that the inquiry had not been serious inasmuch as Wayne could not realistically have been expected to abandon a thriving movie career for a less certain and immensely less lucrative television role. Wayne did, however, recommend James Arness for the part and his offer to introduce the first episode was readily accepted by CBS. \n\nOthers who had auditioned for the part included Raymond Burr, Richard Boone, Denver Pyle, and William Conrad. All would go on to other television successes. Conrad, in particular, would continue to portray Matt on the radio series until it ended in 1961. He would also go on to direct a number of television programs (including two episodes of \"Gunsmoke\"), to become \"The Narrator\" for the original television series of \"The Fugitive\" (1963–1967) and star in three television series: \"Cannon\" (1971–1976), \"Jake and the Fat Man\" (1987–1992), and the short-lived 1981 series \"Nero Wolfe\".\n\nIn the 1988 action classic, \"Die Hard\", Hans Gruber (Alan Rickman), asks John McClane (Bruce Willis) whom he is trying to imitate with his heroics, and he mentions Marshal Dillon as well as action heroes John Wayne and Rambo.\n\nIn Toby Keith's 1993 number one hit, \"Should've Been a Cowboy\", the entire first verse concerns the relationship between Dillon and Miss Kitty. In the song Miss Kitty would have said yes to Matt \"in a New York Minute,\" but Dillon's heart wasn't in it. \"He stole a kiss as he rode away...\"\n\nIn some episodes of \"Gilligan's Island\", Gilligan would dream that he was \"Matt Dillon\" in Dodge City, and the CBS \"Gunsmoke\" set was used, including the jail and sheriff's office. \"Gilligan's Island\" was later abruptly canceled to make room to restore \"Gunsmoke\", which had just been canceled, to the schedule at the insistence of William S. Paley's wife.\n\nIn an early episode of \"Have Gun Will Travel\", Paladin is vying for a job against another bounty hunter, who claims to have been Matt Dillon's deputy when Dillon was the marshal in Austin, Texas. Paladin calls the man a fraud, saying Dillon never served in Austin.\n\nIn \"Maverick\" a character called Matt Pickle was Marshal of towns that the Maverick brothers ran through. One second-season episode was a full parody of a \"Gunsmoke\" episode. Later episodes had Pickle being less hostile to the brothers. \n\nIn \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Forgive and Regret\" in the cold opening, Maggie Simpson has a gunfight with \"Marshal Matt Dillon\", marking the show surpassing \"Gunsmoke\" as the longest-running scripted American primetime television series by number of episodes.\n\nThe \"Tom and Jerry\" short \"Tall in the Trap\" portrays a sheriff character known as Mutt Dillin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103682", "title": "ITPCS", "text": "ITPCS\n\nInternational Telecommunications Public Correspondence Service (ITPCS) is an International Telecommunication Union (ITU) proposal for allocation of country code \"991\" for use in some form of individual-based international numbering plan.\n\nThe service may have been intended for ENUM trials, as the ITU allocated the range \"991 001\" to Neustar for use in trial in 2002. However, the most recent approved ENUM trial, with Telesoft Technologies's Sentiro, was allocated space in the Universal personal telecommunications (UPT) range (country code 878). No other allocations have been reported in 991.\n\nApplication templates addressed to the ITU for E.164 shared country codes and identification codes require descriptions of the \"Public Correspondence Service\" to be provided with those codes.\n"}
{"id": "2103687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103687", "title": "American Folklore Society", "text": "American Folklore Society\n\nThe American Folklore Society (AFS) is the US-based professional association for folklorists, with members from the US, Canada, and around the world, which aims to encourage research, aid in disseminating that research, promote the responsible application of that research, publish various forms of publications, advocate for the continued study and teaching of folklore, etc. The Society is based at Indiana University and has an annual meeting every October. The Society's quarterly publication is the \"Journal of American Folklore\". The current president is Dorothy Noyes and the president-elect is Norma Cantu.\n\nAs of 2016, almost half of its 2,200 members practice their work outside higher education. In addition to professors, members include public folklorists, arts administrators, freelance researchers, librarians, museum curators, and others involved in the study and promotion of folklore and traditional culture.\nThe society is associated with the more Europe oriented International Society for Ethnology and Folklore (SIEF).\n\nAFS was founded in 1888 by William Wells Newell, who stood at the center of a diverse group of university-based scholars, museum anthropologists, and men and women of letters and affairs. In 1945, the society became a member of the American Council of Learned Societies. AFS is also an active member of the National Humanities Alliance (NHS).\n\nOver the years, prominent members of the American Folklore Society known outside academic circles have included Marius Barbeau, Franz Boas, Ben Botkin, Jan Harold Brunvand, Linda Dégh, Ella Deloria, Thomas A. DuBois, William Ferris, John Miles Foley, Joel Chandler Harris, Zora Neale Hurston, James P. Leary, Alan Lomax, John A. Lomax, Kay Turner, and Mark Twain. Past presidents have included Samuel Preston Bayard, Henry Glassie, Diane Goldstein, and Dell Hymes.\n\nAFS awards various prizes to honor outstanding work in the field of folklore, at the opening ceremony of the annual AFS meeting. These include the following:\n\n\nOther prizes are awarded annually, by different sections of the American Folklore Society.\n\nEvery other year (in alternating years), AFS awards the following prizes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103689", "title": "Good Beer Guide", "text": "Good Beer Guide\n\nThe Good Beer Guide is a book published annually by the Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA) listing what it considers to be the best 4,500 real ale outlets (pubs, clubs, and off-licences) in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe content of the guide is decided upon by volunteers in CAMRA's 200-plus local branches. Throughout the preceding year CAMRA members anonymously rate the quality of the cellarmanship of beer in venues using CAMRA's National Beer Scoring System (NBSS) through either WhatPub or the Good Beer Guide app. These scores are then reviewed by local volunteers in the spring who put forward those they consider to serve the best real ale. The number of entries each branch area has is decided at county level with an emphasis on ensuring that a geographically wide spread set of entries are included in each year's Guide. \n\nEntries for each venue give details on factual information such as opening times, food availability and accessibility of the property, as well as subjective information such as the attractiveness of the wallpaper and the welcome visitors are likely to get from the bar staff. \n\nThe Guide also includes a list of real ale breweries in the United Kingdom, with lists and tasting notes on their beers.\n\nAfter two long stints as Editor, Roger Protz announced in autumn 2017 that the 2018 Guide would be his last. CAMRA stated that the 2019 Guide would not have a named author.\n\nThe Good Beer Guide 2020 features a foreword by Professor Brian Cox and is sponsored by Cask Marque.\n\nThe guide was first published in 1972 and was just 18 pages long. \nRather than a professionally published volume, it was a collection of sheets of paper stapled together and posted out to CAMRA members.\n\nThe first printed edition was published in 1974, and contained the comment on Watney's brewery: \"Avoid like the plague\", which generated a lot of media attention and caused the publisher, Waddington, to recall the first print run and revise the description to \"Avoid at all costs\".\n\nThe guide is published each year, occasionally with multiple bindings:\n\nIn the past, CAMRA also published the \"Good Cider Guide\" and the \"Good Bottled Beer Guide\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2103693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103693", "title": "June 30 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 30 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 29 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 1\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on July 13 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 30th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 17.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2103698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103698", "title": "Providian", "text": "Providian\n\nProvidian Financial Corporation was one of the leading credit card issuers in the United States when it was sold to Washington Mutual for approximately US$6.5 billion in October 2005. Providian was headquartered in San Francisco, California, and had more than 10 million card holders at the time of its sale. Washington Mutual, Inc., continued to run the company as a wholly owned subsidiary, out of its San Francisco headquarters. At its peak, the company employed approximately 13,000 people nationwide. Providian had significant operations in California, New Hampshire, and Texas.\n\nIn 1981, Parker Pen acquired two banks to start a credit card company by the name of First Deposit, based in San Francisco. In 1984, First Deposit was sold to the Kentucky insurance company Capital Holding, later renamed Providian. When Providian's insurance operations were acquired by Aegon, Providian's credit card business was spun off as a separate company.\n\nProvidian was a company that sold credit in the \"subprime\" market. Providian provided credit cards primarily to the lowest income groups in the U.S. at high interest rates. The annual percentage rates (APR) charged by Providian were as high as 29.9 percent.\nIn a March 1999 memorandum published by the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", the founder of the company, Andrew Kahr, asked company executives about its customers: \"\"Is any bit of food too small to grab when you're starving and when there is nothing else in sight? The trick is charging a lot, repeatedly, for small doses of instrumental [sic]credit.\"\" Many critics contended that the extended credit makes the borrower poorer than before the credit was extended. Having the opposite effect on officers and directors of the company, making them conspicuously wealthier. David Alvarez, former president of the integrated-card unit, made a US$12.2 million profit selling his stock before the company disclosed that it was in deep trouble. Larry Thompson sold all his stock having a value of approximately US$4.7 million following his confirmation hearing and a short time before Providian's financial problems became public information and the stock price plummeted.\n\nBeginning in mid-1999, a number of class-action suits were filed against the company regarding aggressive sales tactics for various \"credit protection\" services being sold to Providian credit card holders.\n\nOn November 7, 2001, the Hon. Stuart R. Pollak of the Superior Court of California, the City and County of San Francisco, granted final approval to a settlement agreement in the case, and certified a settlement class. The settlement required Providian to pay over $100 million in cash, credits, and other benefits to the class, and to stop certain practices that were at issue in the class actions. Combined with an earlier settlement with governmental entities, the award constitutes the largest settlement ever against a credit card company for alleged widespread unlawful business practices.\n\nProvidian National Bank and its parent company, Providian Financial, were accused of deceiving and unfairly charging its customers since June 1995. The case was initiated by the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the San Francisco District Attorney’s Office. In 2000, Providian agreed to reimburse $300 million to 3 million customers, who were victims of misleading sales pitches and charged for products they did not want, including Providian credit-protection plan, balance transfers, annual fees, and other services. The settlement was the largest enforcement action ever by the OCC and is the first enforcement action under the Federal Trade Commission Act by a bank regulatory agency.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103708", "title": "A. M. Klein", "text": "A. M. Klein\n\nAbraham Moses Klein (14 February 1909 – 20 February 1972) was a Canadian poet, journalist, novelist, short story writer and lawyer. He has been called \"one of Canada's greatest poets and a leading figure in Jewish-Canadian culture.\"\n\nBest known for his poetry, Klein also published one novella entitled \"The Second Scroll\" in 1951, along with numerous essays, reviews, and short stories. Many of his lesser-known works, including several unfinished novels, were published posthumously in a series of collections from the University of Toronto Press.\n\nKlein was born in Ratno, Ukraine, but in 1910 (at age one) he immigrated with his family to Montreal, Quebec, the city in which he would live most of his life. Ratno had seen a series of pogroms and, like many Ukrainian Jews, Klein's parents sought a safer life elsewhere. As a result of the influx of Jewish immigrants to Montreal, its Jewish community flourished, even though many families lived close to the poverty line. The family of Irving Layton was another notable addition to this community. Klein's father, a devout Orthodox Jew, influenced Klein's early development. The son's early education and literary interests owed much to his plan to become a rabbi when he grew up, a plan that he never fulfilled.\n\nKlein attended Baron Byng High School, an institution that would later be immortalized in Mordecai Richler's novel \"The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz\". There he became a friend of David Lewis, future leader of the socialist New Democratic Party. Klein introduced Lewis to his wife, Sophie Carson, when they were all students at Baron Byng. (Lewis later introduced Irving Layton to Klein. Klein became Layton's Latin tutor so he could pass his matriculation exams.)\n\nKlein went on to study political science, classics and economics as an undergraduate at McGill University. It was there that he met a group of poets and critics, including F. R. Scott and A. J. M. Smith, who would form the foundations of the so-called Montreal Group of Poets. Klein's first submission of a poem to the Scott and Smith-edited magazine, \"The McGill Fortnightly Review\", was rejected on the basis of its author's refusal to alter the word \"soul,\" which the editors felt was out of step with the modernist principles they espoused. Klein nevertheless became friends with the elder poets and was soon an avid modernist himself. After the \"Fortnightly Review\" folded, Klein and Lewis founded \"The McGilliad\" magazine at McGill in 1930.\n\nKlein also came under the influence of Montreal Group member Leon Edel, the future Henry James biographer, who introduced Klein to the works of James Joyce and other writers. Klein would add Joyce to his list of lifelong fascinations, an interest that bore fruit in a complex literary study of Joyce's \"Ulysses\", published posthumously in the Klein volume \"Literary Essays and Reviews\".\n\nAfter McGill, Klein studied law at the Université de Montréal, where instruction was in French. He was a law partner first of Max Garmaise, whom he followed briefly to Rouyn, a small mining development in the North of Quebec. Then, back in Montreal, he joined with Samuel Chait (who was to become first president of the Federated Zionist Organization of Canada, when it was reorganised in 1967). Klein, Garmaise, and Chait had all been officers of Young Judea, a Zionist youth organization.\n\nIn spite of his growing literary interests, Klein's early poetry of the 1920s and 1930s was largely concerned with Jewish themes, including the history of Jews in Western society (\"Design for Mediaeval Tapestry\"), the importance of religion as a mediating force in modern society (\"Heirloom\"), and tributes to important figures in Jewish culture (\"Out of the Pulver and the Polished Lens,\" about the philosopher Spinoza). Klein published many of these early works in Canadian and American periodicals, although the Great Depression made it difficult for him to find a publisher willing to accept an entire book. He also published two poems in the 1936 anthology of modernist Canadian poetry, \"New Provinces\".\n\nBelatedly, in 1940, Klein's first monograph, \"Hath Not a Jew\", was published in the United States. Although the book sold poorly, many of its poems would later become standard selections in anthologies of Canadian literature and posthumous collections of Klein's work.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Klein published two more books, \"Poems\" and \"The Hitleriad\", both in 1944. \"Poems\" developed ideas forecast in \"Hath Not a Jew\" but also reflected Klein's anxieties over current events and the plight of Jews in the wake of the Holocaust. Poems such as \"Polish Village,\" \"Meditation Upon Survival,\" and \"Elegy\" were thoroughly contemporary accounts of persecution and suffering with which Klein, despite his relative safety in Canada, deeply sympathized. \"The Hitleriad\" was a very different work, a mock epic written in a satirical style reminiscent of Alexander Pope in such works as The Dunciad. In it, Klein attempted to satirize Adolf Hitler and his Nazi cohorts, although later critics often noted that the inescapable bitterness of the subject caused Klein's humorous intentions to run awry.\n\nKlein's greatest achievement as a poet came in 1948 with the publication of \"The Rocking Chair and Other Poems\". The book earned Klein a Governor General's Award in poetry and sold in numbers far exceeding the norm for a book of Canadian poetry. The success of the book owed much to Klein's new-found focus on domestic Canadian subjects, particularly the culture of French Canada, which Klein, fluent in French and sympathetic to their minority status in North America, understood better than most English-Canadian writers of his day. Along with the oft-anthologized title poem, \"The Rocking Chair,\" a poem that uses the chair in a rural Quebec house as a synecdoche of French-Canadian heritage, the book included such poems as \"Lookout: Mont Royal,\" \"Grain Elevator,\" and \"The Cripples,\" all of which showed Klein at the height of his creative powers and survived long after as lyrical encapsulations of specific aspects and locations of Montreal. A lengthy elegy at the end of the book, \"Portrait of the Poet as Landscape,\" reflected Klein's indignation at the general indifference of the Canadian public to its own literature.\n\nKlein's mission to Israel in 1949 on behalf of \"The Canadian Jewish Chronicle\" inspired his last major work and only complete novel, \"The Second Scroll\". Taking cues equally from James Joyce, the Torah and Talmud, and the events of recent history, Klein structured his novel as a series of five chapters, from Genesis to Deuteronomy, each of which corresponds to one of the five books of the Pentateuch. The story's narrator, an unnamed character based loosely on Klein himself, goes in search of his long-lost uncle, Melech Davidson, a Holocaust survivor who drifts to Rome and then Casablanca before immigrating to Israel. Just as the narrator is about to catch up to his mercurial uncle, Davidson is murdered by a group of Arabs, leaving the end of the novel open as to whether Davidson was a martyr to the Jewish nation or a false Messiah whose heroic status was inflated by his nephew's eagerness to meet his elusive uncle. Following the main narrative of \"The Second Scroll\" is a series of numbered glosses that add further commentary to the narrative in the form of poems, a liturgy, a playlet, and, most notably, a meditative essay on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel painted by Michelangelo. Although \"The Second Scroll\" was not a commercial success in its first edition from Knopf in New York City, a subsequent re-print in Canada's New Canadian Library ensured its survival as one of the significant works of modern Canadian literature.\n\nAside from his writing, Klein was also an important member of the Montreal Jewish community during his lifetime. By profession he was a lawyer, and spent many years as a consultant and speech writer for Samuel Bronfman, owner of the Seagram distillery. He was editor of the \"Canadian Jewish Chronicle\" from 1932 until 1955, a periodical to which he also contributed articles on such subjects as the rise of Nazism in Germany, the social position of Jews in Canada, and the founding of the state of Israel in 1948. Klein was a Zionist but his enthusiasm for the new Jewish state was tempered by a critical eye for political realities. This ambivalence toward Israel is best expressed in \"The Second Scroll\", which he wrote after a fact-finding journey to Israel in 1949 and published two years later. Also in 1949, Klein ran unsuccessfully for the Canadian Parliament as a member of the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation. Increasing mental illness in the following years led to a suicide attempt and hospitalisation in 1952. In 1956, he was awarded the Lorne Pierce Medal by the Royal Society of Canada, but by then he had lapsed into the mysterious silence that saw him give up writing altogether and become a recluse in his home in Montreal's Outremont district, until his death in 1972.\n\n\"The Canadian Encyclopedia\" states that \"Klein has rightly been called the 'first contributor of authentic Jewish poetry to the English language.' His writings articulate the feelings of a generation that witnessed the destruction of European Jewry and the fulfilment of the Zionist dream.\" \n\nFellow Jewish-Montrealer Leonard Cohen was an admirer who cited Klein as an influence and had written a couple of poems as well as a song, \"To a Teacher,\" in Klein's memory. Mordecai Richler is said to have used Klein as a model for the character L. B. Berger in \"Solomon Gursky Was Here\" (1989). He is honoured posthumously through the A. M. Klein Prize for Poetry, presented by the Quebec Writers' Federation. A play inspired by the poems and life of Klein was produced by Tableau D'Hôte Theatre and presented at the Segal Centre for Performing Arts in Montréal in February 2009.\n\nKlein was designated a Person of National Historic Significance by the federal government in 2007, and a plaque reflecting that status from the national Historic Sites and Monuments Board was unveiled in Montreal on November 19, 2017. Klein's papers are preserved in the National Library and Archives Canada, Ottawa.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103714", "title": "Flood Range", "text": "Flood Range\n\nThe Flood Range () is an Antarctic range of large snow-covered mountains extending in an E-W direction for about 96 km (60 mi) and forming a right angle with the southern end of the Ames Range in Marie Byrd Land.\n\nDiscovered by the Byrd Antarctic Expedition in 1934 from a great distance. Reconnaissance flights by the USAS (1939–41) explored the range. The principle mountain was named \"Mount Hal Flood\" by Byrd for his uncle, the Hon. Henry D. Flood, U.S. Representative from Virginia. The name was subsequently transferred by US-SCAN from the mountain to the entire range. Mount Hal Flood is now known officially as Mount Berlin. Other mountains in this range include Mount Moulton and Mount Bursey.\n\nThe Flood Range consists of a linear volcanic chain of peaks in which there have been systematic migrations of felsic activity. This activity has moved 90 km from east to west between 9 million and 2.5 million years ago, and 154 km northward from the south end of the Ames Range toward Shepard Island between 12.7 and 0.6 million years ago.\n"}
{"id": "2103715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103715", "title": "The Golden Book of Chemistry Experiments", "text": "The Golden Book of Chemistry Experiments\n\nThe Golden Book of Chemistry Experiments is a children's chemistry book written in 1960 by Robert Brent and illustrated by Harry Lazarus and published by Western Publishing as part of their Golden Books series.\n\nA decade after the book's publication, concerns were raised over the safety of the reactions described, which frequently used or generated toxic or corrosive substances. For example, one experiment generated toxic chlorine gas, and another used carbon tetrachloride, a potent hepatotoxin.\n\nThe book was also believed to be a source of inspiration to David Hahn, nicknamed \"the Radioactive Boy Scout\" by the media, who attempted to construct a nuclear reactor in his mother's shed, although the book does not include any nuclear reactions.\n\nDue to safety concerns, the book was eventually pulled from library shelves. It is now quite rare, and OCLC lists only 126 copies of this book in libraries worldwide. However, privately-owned copies are routinely put up for sale online.\n\nThe first edition was printed in 1960. A second printing was made in 1962 and a revised edition was printed in 1963.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103717", "title": "West Ryde railway station", "text": "West Ryde railway station\n\nWest Ryde railway station is located on the Main Northern line, serving the Sydney suburb of West Ryde. It is served by Sydney Trains T9 Northern Line services.\n\nWest Ryde station opened on 17 September 1886 as Ryde, being renamed West Ryde on 8 October 1945. Immediately north of the station, a loop that runs to Epping commences. This opened on 24 October 1978. On 27 November 1989, a southbound loop from Eastwood opened, this resulted in the existing southbound platform being converted to an island platform.\n\nWest Ryde Signal Box was a timber structure situated on the city end of Platform 3. Until 1937 it controlled a level crossing on Victoria Road. Also situated at West Ryde was a Water Board siding and a connection to the former tram network, which provided for transfer of vehicles between light and heavy rail systems. It was closed in 1982, when control was transferred to Epping signal box. In 2019, control of this section was transferred to the new Rail Operations Centre at Alexandria.\n\nThere are a number of points and crossovers at West Ryde. The two closest to either end of the platforms are the start and end of the Up/Down Suburban. The suburban tracks are used by intercity Central Coast & Newcastle Line trains to overtake slower suburban Northern line trains making all stops. They are also occasionally used to overtake slow moving freight trains. The two crossovers to the south are emergency crossovers which cannot be controlled by the signal box. There are levers beside these crossovers which can be used to terminate trains or run them 'wrong road' (on the track for the opposite direction) if there is an incident on the line ahead.\n\nWest Ryde has a bus interchange on the western side of the station, rebuilt in the early 2000s. It is served by the following State Transit routes:\n\n\n\n\n\nWest Ryde station is served by one NightRide route:\n\nDuring the 1980s West Ryde was the site of the Sydney Depot for the Lachlan Valley Railway. The station used to have a small goods yard servicing a freight shed and a siding running up to the West Ryde Pumping station. The Lachlan Valley Railway vacated the site in August 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103722", "title": "Empire (Hardt and Negri book)", "text": "Empire (Hardt and Negri book)\n\nEmpire is a book by post-Marxist philosophers Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri. Written in the mid-1990s, it was published in 2000 and quickly sold beyond its expectations as an academic work.\n\nIn general, Hardt and Negri theorize an ongoing transition from a \"modern\" phenomenon of imperialism, centered on individual nation-states, to an emergent postmodern construct created among ruling powers which the authors call \"Empire\" (the capital letter is distinguishing), with different forms of warfare:\n...according to Hardt and Negri's \"Empire\", the rise of Empire is the end of national conflict, the \"enemy\" now, whoever he is, can no longer be ideological or national. This is the enemy as a terrorist...In the \"new order that envelops the entire space of... civilization\", where conflict between nations has been made irrelevant, the \"enemy\" is simultaneously \"banalized\" (reduced to an object of routine police repression) and absolutized (as the Enemy, an absolute threat to the ethical order\").\n\nHardt and Negri elaborate a variety of ideas surrounding constitutions, global war, and class. Hence, the Empire is constituted by a monarchy (the United States and the G8, and international organizations such as NATO, the International Monetary Fund or the World Trade Organization), an oligarchy (the multinational corporations and other nation-states) and a democracy (the various non-government organizations and the United Nations). Part of the book's analysis deals with \"imagin<nowiki>[ing]</nowiki> resistance\", but \"the point of Empire is that it, too, is \"total\" and that resistance to it can only take the form of negation - \"the will to be against\". The Empire is total, but economic inequality persists, and as all identities are wiped out and replaced with a universal one, the identity of the poor persists.\n\n\"Empire\" was published by Harvard University Press in 2000 as a 478-page hardcover () and paperback ().\n\nThis description of pyramidal levels is a replica of Polybius' description of Roman government, hence the denomination \"Empire\". Furthermore, the crisis is conceived as inherent to the Empire. Hardt and Negri are also heavily indebted to Michel Foucault's analysis of biopolitics and Gilles Deleuze's philosophy. Before \"Empire\", Negri was best known for having written \"The Savage Anomaly\" (1981), a milestone book in Spinozism studies which he wrote in prison. \"Empire\" is thus, unsurprisingly, also influenced by Spinoza.\n\nThe ideas first introduced in \"Empire\" (notably the concept of multitude, taken from Spinoza) were further developed in the 2004 books \"\" and the 2009 book \"Commonwealth\", which were also written by Hardt and Negri.\n\n\"Empire\" has created important intellectual debates around its arguments. Certain scholars have compared the evolution of the world order with Hardt and Negri's world image in \"Empire\".\nA number of publications and debates centered on the book.\nHardt and Negri's theoretical approach has also been compared and contrasted with works of 'the global capitalism school' whose authors have analyzed transnational capitalism and class relations in the global epoch.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103725", "title": "Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway", "text": "Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway\n\nThe Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway (CCE&HR), also known as the Hampstead Tube, was a railway company established in 1891 that constructed a deep-level underground \"tube\" railway in London. Construction of the CCE&HR was delayed for more than a decade while funding was sought. In 1900 it became a subsidiary of the Underground Electric Railways Company of London (UERL), controlled by American financier Charles Yerkes. The UERL quickly raised the funds, mainly from foreign investors. Various routes were planned, but a number of these were rejected by Parliament. Plans for tunnels under Hampstead Heath were authorised, despite opposition by many local residents who believed they would damage the ecology of the Heath.\n\nWhen opened in 1907, the CCE&HR's line served 16 stations and ran for in a pair of tunnels between its southern terminus at Charing Cross and its two northern termini at Archway and Golders Green. Extensions in 1914 and the mid-1920s took the railway to Edgware and under the River Thames to Kennington, serving 23 stations over a distance of . In the 1920s the route was connected to another of London's deep-level tube railways, the City and South London Railway (C&SLR), and services on the two lines were merged into a single London Underground line, eventually called the Northern line.\n\nWithin the first year of opening, it became apparent to the management and investors that the estimated passenger numbers for the CCE&HR and the other UERL lines had been over-optimistic. Despite improved integration and cooperation with the other tube railways, and the later extensions, the CCE&HR struggled financially. In 1933 the CCE&HR and the rest of the UERL were taken into public ownership. Today, the CCE&HR's tunnels and stations form the Northern line's Charing Cross branch from Kennington to Camden Town, the Edgware branch from Camden Town to Edgware, and the High Barnet branch from Camden Town to Archway.\n\nIn November 1891, notice was given of a private bill that would be presented to Parliament for the construction of the Hampstead, St Pancras & Charing Cross Railway (HStP&CCR). The railway was planned to run entirely underground from Heath Street in Hampstead to Strand in Charing Cross. The route was to run beneath Hampstead High Street, Rosslyn Hill, Haverstock Hill and Chalk Farm Road to Camden Town and then under Camden High Street and Hampstead Road to Euston Road. The route then continued south, following Tottenham Court Road, Charing Cross Road and King William Street (now William IV Street) to Agar Street adjacent to Strand. North of Euston Road, a branch was to run eastwards from the main alignment under Drummond Street to serve the main line stations at Euston, St Pancras and King's Cross. Stations were planned at Hampstead, Belsize Park, Chalk Farm, Camden Town, Seymour Street (now part of Eversholt Street), Euston Road, Tottenham Court Road, Oxford Street, Agar Street, Euston and King's Cross. Although a decision had not been made between the use of cable haulage or electric traction as the means of pulling the trains, a power station was planned on Chalk Farm Road close to the London and North Western Railway's Chalk Farm station (later renamed Primrose Hill) which had a coal depot for deliveries.\n\nThe promoters of the HStP&CCR were inspired by the recent success of the City and South London Railway (C&SLR), the world's first deep-tube railway. This had opened in November 1890 and had seen large passenger numbers in its first year of operation. Bills for three similarly inspired new underground railways were also submitted to Parliament for the 1892 legislative session, and, to ensure a consistent approach, a Joint Select Committee was established to review the proposals. The committee took evidence on various matters regarding the construction and operation of deep-tube railways, and made recommendations on the diameter of tube tunnels, method of traction, and the granting of wayleaves. After preventing the construction of the branch beyond Euston, the Committee allowed the HStP&CCR bill to proceed for normal parliamentary consideration. The rest of the route was approved and, following a change of the company name, the bill received royal assent on 24 August 1893 as the \"Charing Cross, Euston, and Hampstead Railway Act, 1893\".\n\nAlthough the company had permission to construct the railway, it still had to raise the capital for the construction works. The CCE&HR was not alone; four other new tube railway companies were looking for investors – the Baker Street & Waterloo Railway (BS&WR), the Waterloo & City Railway (W&CR) and the Great Northern & City Railway (GN&CR) (the three other companies that put forward bills in 1892) and the Central London Railway (CLR, which had received assent in 1891). Only the W&CR, which was the shortest line and was backed by the London and South Western Railway with a guaranteed dividend, was able to raise its funds without difficulty. For the CCE&HR and the rest, much of the remainder of the decade saw a struggle to find investors in an uninterested market. A share offer in April 1894 had been unsuccessful and in December 1899 only 451 out of the company's 177,600 £10 shares had been part sold to eight investors.\nLike most legislation of its kind, the act of 1893 imposed a time limit for the compulsory purchase of land and the raising of capital. To keep the powers granted by the act alive, the CCE&HR submitted a series of further bills to Parliament for extensions of time. Extensions were granted by the \"Charing Cross Euston and Hampstead Railway Acts, 1897\", \"1898\", \"1900\", and \"1902\".\n\nA contractor was appointed in 1897, but funds were not available and no work was started. In 1900, foreign investors came to the rescue of the CCE&HR: American financier Charles Yerkes, who had been lucratively involved in the development of Chicago's tramway system in the 1880s and 1890s, saw the opportunity to make similar investments in London. Starting with the purchase of the CCE&HR in September 1900 for £100,000, he and his backers purchased a number of the unbuilt tube railways, and the operational but struggling Metropolitan District Railway (MDR).\n\nWith the CCE&HR and the other companies under his control, Yerkes established the UERL to raise funds to build the tube railways and to electrify the steam-operated MDR. The UERL was capitalised at £5 million with the majority of shares sold to overseas investors. Further share issues followed, which raised a total of £18 million (equivalent to approximately £ today) to be used across all of the UERL's projects.\n\nWhile the CCE&HR raised money, it continued to develop the plans for its route. On 24 November 1894, a bill was announced to purchase additional land for stations at Charing Cross, Oxford Street, Euston and Camden Town. This was approved as the \"Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway Act, 1894\" on 20 July 1895. On 23 November 1897, a bill was announced to change the route of the line at its southern end to terminate under Craven Street on the south side of Strand. This was enacted as the \"Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway Act, 1898\" on 25 July 1898.\n\nOn 22 November 1898, the CCE&HR published another bill to add an extension and to modify part of the route. The extension was a branch from Camden Town to Kentish Town where a new terminus was planned as an interchange with the Midland Railway's Kentish Town station. Beyond the terminus, the CCE&HR line was to come to the surface for a depot on vacant land to the east of Highgate Road (occupied today by the Ingestre Road Estate). The modification changed the Euston branch by extending it northwards from Euston to connect to the main route at the south end of Camden High Street. The section of the main route between the two ends of the loop was omitted. Included in the bill were powers to purchase a site in Cranbourn Street for an additional station (Leicester Square). It received royal assent as the \"Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway Act, 1899\" on 9 August 1899.\n\nOn 23 November 1900, the CCE&HR announced its most wide-ranging modifications to the route. Two bills were submitted to Parliament, referred to as No. 1 and No. 2. Bill No. 1 proposed the continuation of the railway north from Hampstead to Golders Green, the purchase of land and properties for stations and the construction of a depot at Golders Green. Also proposed were minor adjustments to route alignments previously approved. Bill No. 2 proposed two extensions: from Kentish Town to Brecknock Road, Archway Tavern, Archway Road and Highgate in the north and from Charing Cross to Parliament Square, Artillery Row and Victoria station in the south.\n\nThe extension to Golders Green would take the railway out of the urban and suburban areas and into open farmland. While this provided a convenient site for the CCE&HR's depot it is believed that underlying the decision was Yerkes' plan to profit from the sale of development land previously purchased in the area that would rise in value when the railway opened.\n\nThe CCE&HR's two bills were submitted to Parliament at the same time as a large number of other bills for underground railways in the capital. As it had done in 1892, Parliament established a joint committee under Lord Windsor to review the bills. By the time the committee had produced its report, the parliamentary session was almost over and the promoters of the bills were asked to resubmit them for the following 1902 session. Bills No. 1 and No. 2 were resubmitted in November 1901 together with a new bill – bill No. 3. The new bill modified the route of the proposed extension to Golders Green and added a short extension running beneath Charing Cross main line station to the Victoria Embankment where it would provide an interchange with the existing MDR station (then called Charing Cross).\nThe bills were again examined by a joint committee, this time under Lord Ribblesdale. The sections which dealt with the proposed north-eastern extension from Archway Tavern to Highgate and the southern extension from Charing Cross to Victoria were deemed to not comply with parliamentary standing orders and were struck-out.\n\nA controversial element of the CCE&HR's plans was the extension of the railway to Golders Green. The route of the tube tunnels took the line under Hampstead Heath and strong opposition was raised, concerned about the effect that the tunnels would have on the ecology of the Heath. The Hampstead Heath Protection Society claimed that the tunnels would drain the sub-soil of water and the vibration of passing trains would damage trees. Taking its lead from the Society's objections, \"The Times\" published an alarmist article on 25 December 1900 claiming that \"a great tube laid under the heath will, of course, act as a drain; and it is quite likely that the grass and gorse and trees on the Heath will suffer from the loss of moisture ... Moreover, it seems to be established beyond question that the trains passing along these deep-laid tubes shake the earth to its surface, and the constant jar and quiver will probably have a serious effect upon the trees by loosening their roots.\"\n\nIn fact, the tunnels were to be excavated at a depth of more than below the surface, the deepest of any on the London Underground. In his presentation to the joint committee, the CCE&HR's counsel disparagingly refuted the objections: \"Just see what an absurd thing! Disturbance of the water when we are 240 feet down in the London clay – about the most impervious thing you can possibly find; almost more impervious than granite rock! And the vibration on this railway is to shake down timber trees! Could anything be more ludicrous than to waste the time of the Committee in discussing such things presented by such a body!\"\n\nA second railway company, the Edgware & Hampstead Railway (E&HR), also had a bill before Parliament which proposed tunnels beneath the Heath as part of its planned route between Edgware and Hampstead. The E&HR had planned to connect to the CCE&HR at Hampstead but, to avoid the needless duplication of tunnels between Golders Green and Hampstead, the two companies agreed that the E&HR would instead connect to the CCE&HR at Golders Green.\n\nThe Metropolitan Borough of Hampstead had initially objected to the line but gave consent on the condition that a station be constructed between Hampstead and Golders Green to provide access for visitors to the Heath. A new station was added to the plans at the northern edge of the Heath at North End where it could also serve a new residential development planned for the area. Once Parliament was satisfied that the extension would not damage the Heath, the CCE&HR bills jointly received royal assent on 18 November 1902 as the \"Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway Act, 1902\". On the same date, the E&HR bill received its assent as the \"Edgware and Hampstead Railway Act, 1902\".\n\nWith the funds available from the UERL and the route decided, the CCE&HR started site demolitions and preparatory works in July 1902. On 21 November 1902, the CCE&HR published another bill which sought compulsory purchase powers for additional buildings for its station sites, planned the take-over of the E&HR and abandoned the permitted but redundant section of the line from Kentish Town to the proposed depot site near Highgate Road. This bill was approved as the \"Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway Act, 1903\" on 21 July 1903.\n\nTunnelling began in September 1903. Stations were provided with surface buildings designed by architect Leslie Green in the UERL house-style. This consisted of two-storey steel-framed buildings faced with red glazed terracotta blocks with wide semi-circular windows on the upper floor. Each station was provided with two or four lifts and an emergency spiral staircase in a separate shaft.\n\nWhile construction proceeded, the CCE&HR continued to submit bills to Parliament. The \"Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway Act, 1904\", which received assent on 22 July 1904, granted permission to buy additional land for the station at Tottenham Court Road, for a new station at Mornington Crescent and for changes at Charing Cross. The \"Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway Act, 1905\" received assent on 4 August 1905. It dealt mainly with the acquisition of the subsoil under part of the forecourt of the South Eastern Railway's Charing Cross station so that the CCE&HR's station could be excavated during the 3 months closure following the recent roof collapse.\n\nThe sale of the building land at North End to conservationists to form the Hampstead Heath extension in 1904, meant a reduction in the number of residents who might use the station there. Work continued below ground at a reduced pace, and the platform tunnels and some passenger circulation tunnels were excavated, but North End station was abandoned in 1906 before the lift and stair shafts were dug and before a surface building was constructed.\n\nTunnelling was completed in December 1905, after which work continued on the construction of the station buildings and the fitting-out of the tunnels with tracks and signalling equipment. As part of the UERL group, the CCE&HR obtained its electricity from the company's Lots Road Power Station, originally built for the electrification of the MDR; the proposed Chalk Farm generating station was not built. The final section of the approved route between Charing Cross and the Embankment was not constructed, and the southern terminus on opening was Charing Cross. After a period of test running, the railway was ready to open in 1907.\n\nThe CCE&HR was the last of the UERL's three tube railways to open and was advertised as the \"Last Link\". The official opening on 22 June 1907 was made by David Lloyd George, President of the Board of Trade, after which the public travelled free for the rest of the day. From its opening, the CCE&HR was generally known by the abbreviated names \"Hampstead Tube\" or \"Hampstead Railway\" and the names appeared on the station buildings and on contemporary maps of the tube lines.\n\nThe railway had stations at:\nGolders Green branch\nHighgate branch\n\nThe service was provided by a fleet of carriages manufactured for the UERL by the American Car and Foundry Company and assembled at Trafford Park in Manchester. These carriages were built to the same design used for the BS&WR and the GNP&BR and operated as electric multiple unit trains without the need for separate locomotives. Passengers boarded the trains via folding lattice gates at each end of cars which were operated by Gate-men who rode on the outside platform and announced station names as trains arrived. The design became known on the Underground as the 1906 stock or Gate stock.\n\nDespite the UERL's success in financing and constructing the Hampstead Railway in only seven years, its opening was not the financial success that had been expected. In the Hampstead Tube's first twelve months of operation it carried 25 million passengers, just half of the 50 million that had been predicted during the planning of the line. The UERL's pre-opening predictions of passenger numbers for its other new lines proved to be greatly over-optimistic, as did the improvement in passenger numbers expected on the newly electrified MDR – in each case achieving only around fifty per cent of their targets.\n\nThe lower than expected passenger numbers were partly due to competition between the tube and sub-surface railway companies, but the introduction of electric trams and motor buses, replacing slower, horse-drawn road transport, took a large number of passengers away from the trains. The problem was not limited to the UERL; all of London's seven tube lines and the sub-surface MDR and Metropolitan Railway were affected to a degree and the reduced revenues generated from the lower numbers of passengers made it difficult for the UERL and the other railways to pay back the capital borrowed and pay dividends to shareholders.\n\nIn an effort to improve the financial situation, the UERL together with the C&SLR, the CLR and the GN&CR began, from 1907, to introduce fare agreements. From 1908, they began to present themselves through common branding as the \"Underground\". The W&CR was the only tube railway that did not participate in the arrangement as it was owned by the mainline London and South Western Railway.\n\nThe UERL's three tube railway companies were still legally separate entities with their own management and shareholder and dividend structures. There was duplicated administration between the three companies and, to streamline the management and reduce expenditure, the UERL announced a bill in November 1909 that would merge the Hampstead Tube, the Piccadilly Tube and the Bakerloo Tube into a single entity, the London Electric Railway (LER), although the lines retained their own individual branding. The bill received assent on 26 July 1910 as the \"London Electric Railway Amalgamation Act, 1910\".\n\nIn November 1910, the LER published notice of a bill to revive the unused 1902 permission to continue the line from Charing Cross to Embankment. The extension was planned as a single tunnel, running in a loop under the Thames, connecting the ends of the two existing tunnels. Trains were to run in one direction around the loop stopping at a single-platform station constructed to provide an interchange with the BS&WR and MDR at Embankment station. The bill received assent as the \"London Electric Railway Act, 1911\" on 2 June 1911. The loop was constructed from a large excavation north-west of the MDR station and was connected to the sub-surface line with escalators. The station opened on 6 April 1914 as:\n\nIn the decade after the E&HR received royal assent for its route from Edgware to Hampstead, the company continued to search for finance and revised its plans in conjunction both with the CCE&HR and a third railway company, the Watford & Edgware Railway (W&ER) which had plans to build a line linking the E&HR to Watford.\n\nFollowing the enactment of the \"Watford and Edgware Railway Act, 1906\", the W&ER briefly took over the powers of the E&HR to construct the line from Golders Green to Edgware. Struggling to find funds, the W&ER attempted a formal merger with the E&HR through a bill submitted to Parliament in 1906, with the intention of constructing and operating the whole of the route from Golders Green to Watford as a light railway but the bill was rejected by Parliament and, when the W&ER's powers lapsed, control returned to the CCE&HR.\n\nThe E&HR company had remained in existence and had obtained a series of acts to preserve and develop its plans. The \"Edgware and Hampstead Railway Acts, 1905\", \"1909\" and \"1912\" granted extensions of time, approved changes to the route, gave permissions for viaducts and a tunnel and allowed the closure and re-routeing of roads to be crossed by the railway's tracks. It was intended that the CCE&HR would provide and operate the trains and this was formalised by the \"London Electric Railway Act, 1912\", which approved the LER's take over of the E&HR.\n\nNo immediate effort was made to start the works and they were postponed indefinitely when World War I started. With wartime restrictions in place, construction work for the railway was prevented. Yearly extensions to the earlier E&HR acts were granted under special wartime powers each year from 1916 until 1922, giving a final date by which compulsory purchases had to be made of 7 August 1924. Although the permissions had been maintained, the UERL could not raise the money needed for the works. Construction costs had increased considerably during the war years and the returns produced by the company could not cover the cost of repaying loans.\nThe project was made possible when the government introduced the Trade Facilities Act 1921 by which the Treasury underwrote loans for public works as a means of alleviating unemployment. With this support, the UERL raised the funds and work began on extending the Hampstead tube to Edgware. The UERL group's Managing Director/Chairman, Lord Ashfield, ceremonially cut the first sod to begin the works at Golders Green on 12 June 1922.\n\nThe extension crossed farmland, meaning it could be constructed on the surface more easily and cheaply than a deep tube line below the surface. A viaduct was constructed across the Brent valley and a short section of tunnel was required at The Hyde, Hendon. Stations were designed in a suburban pavilion style by the UERL's architect Stanley Heaps. The first section opened on 19 November 1923 with stations at:\n\n\nThe remainder of the extension opened on 18 August 1924 with stations at:\n\nOn 21 November 1922, the LER announced a bill for the 1923 parliamentary session. It included the proposal to extend the line from its southern terminus to the C&SLR's station at Kennington where an interchange would be provided. The bill received royal assent as the \"London Electric Railway Act, 1923\" on 2 August 1923.\n\nThe work involved the rebuilding of the below ground parts of the CCE&HR's former terminus station to enable through running and the loop tunnel was abandoned. Tunnels were extended under the Thames to Waterloo station and then to Kennington where two additional platforms were constructed to provide the interchange to the C&SLR. Immediately south of Kennington station, the CCE&HR tunnels connected to those of the C&SLR. The new service was opened on 13 September 1926 to coincide with the opening of the extension of the C&SLR to Morden. The Charing Cross to Kennington link had stations at:\n\nThe C&SLR had been under the control of the UERL since its purchase by the group in 1913. An earlier connection between the CCE&HR and the C&SLR had been opened in 1924 linking the C&SLR's station at Euston with the CCE&HR's at Camden Town. With the opening of the Kennington extension, the two railways began to operate as an integrated service using the newly built Standard Stock trains. On tube maps the combined lines were shown in a single colour although the separate names continued in use into the 1930s.\n\nDespite improvements made to other parts of the network, the Underground railways were still struggling to make a profit. The UERL's ownership of the highly profitable London General Omnibus Company (LGOC) since 1912 had enabled the UERL group, through the pooling of revenues, to use profits from the bus company to subsidise the less profitable railways. However, competition from numerous small bus companies during the early 1920s eroded the profitability of the LGOC and had a negative impact on the profitability of the whole UERL group.\n\nIn an effort to protect the UERL group's income Lord Ashfield lobbied the government for regulation of transport services in the London area. Starting in 1923, a series of legislative initiatives were made in this direction, with Ashfield and Labour London County Councillor (later MP and Minister of Transport) Herbert Morrison, at the forefront of debates as to the level of regulation and public control under which transport services should be brought. Ashfield aimed for regulation that would give the UERL group protection from competition and allow it to take substantive control of the LCC's tram system; Morrison preferred full public ownership. After seven years of false starts, a bill was announced at the end of 1930 for the formation of the London Passenger Transport Board (LPTB), a public corporation that would take control of the UERL, the Metropolitan Railway and all bus and tram operators within an area designated as the London Passenger Transport Area. The Board was a compromise – public ownership but not full nationalisation – and came into existence on 1 July 1933. On this date, the LER and the other Underground companies were liquidated.\n\nFinding a suitable name for the combined CCE&HR and C&SLR routes proved a challenge for the LPTB and a number of variations were used including \"Edgware, Morden & Highgate Line\" in 1933 and \"Morden-Edgware Line\" in 1936. In 1937, \"Northern line\" was adopted in preparation for the uncompleted Northern Heights plan. Today, the Northern line is the busiest on the London Underground system, carrying 206.7 million passengers annually, a level of usage which led it to be known as the \"Misery line\" during the 1990s due to overcrowding and poor reliability.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103727", "title": "Special appearance", "text": "Special appearance\n\nA special appearance is a term used in the American law of civil procedure to describe a civil defendant's appearance in the court of another state solely to dispute the personal jurisdiction of the court over that defendant. Prior to the advent of this procedure, defendants had to either appear in the other state's court to defend the case on the merits, or not show up in court at all, and then mount a collateral attack on any judgment rendered against them, when the plaintiff came to the defendant's state to collect on the judgment. In a legal catch-22, if the defendant appeared solely to contest jurisdiction, the court would then be permitted to assert jurisdiction based on the defendant's presence.\n\nIn response to the apparent inequity presented by this situation, most states have passed statutes permitting the defendant to make a special appearance in the courts of the state to contest jurisdiction, without further subjecting themselves to the jurisdiction of the court. The equivalent of such an appearance is possible in U.S. federal courts, for the defendant may make a motion to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction. Where a special appearance is permitted, the term general appearance is used to denote the normal type of appearance in court. A \"special appearance\" is in contrast to a \"general appearance\".\n\nBeginning in the late 1990s, adherents of the sovereign citizen's movement have attempted to use the special appearance to question the jurisdiction and competence of courts where the point is moot. The most prevalent use of the special appearance is in any criminal court, as special appearances are only recognized in the civil rules of procedure and the civil courts. Thus, the term special appearance has no meaning in the context of a criminal court, as anyone committing, or having been indicted for or charged with committing or otherwise alleged to have committed a criminal offense are de jure within the jurisdiction of the criminal courts, whatever their residence or national citizenship. \n\nThis type of special appearance is not to be confused with a first special appearance in which an attorney who has not had the opportunity to formally become a defendant's attorney of record appears on that person's behalf. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103729", "title": "Duban (crater)", "text": "Duban (crater)\n\nDuban is a crater in the northern hemisphere of Saturn's moon Enceladus. Duban was first seen in \"Voyager 2\" images, though the crater has also been seen in much higher resolution \"Cassini\" images. It is located at and is 19 kilometers across. In the \"Cassini\" image, evidence for significant tectonic deformation can be seen along the northwest rim of the crater. \n\nDuban is named after a sage who cured King Yunan of leprosy in \"Arabian Nights\".\n"}
{"id": "2103737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103737", "title": "Ames Range", "text": "Ames Range\n\nThe Ames Range is an Antarctic range of snow-covered, flat-topped, steep-sided mountains, extending in a N-S direction for 32 km (20 mi) and forming a right angle with the eastern end of the Flood Range in Marie Byrd Land.\n\nThey were discovered by the United States Antarctic Service Expedition (1939–41) and named by Richard E. Byrd for his father-in-law, Joseph Ames.\n\nThe Ames Range consists of three coalescing shield volcanoes: Mount Andrus, Mount Kosciusko and Mount Kauffman, and Mount Boennighausen.\n\nThere are several glaciers draining from the Ames Range:\n\nOther features include:\n"}
{"id": "2103757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103757", "title": "July 1 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 1 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 30 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 2\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on July 14 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 1st, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 18.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2103761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103761", "title": "Dave DeRoo", "text": "Dave DeRoo\n\nDave DeRoo (born September 3, 1974) is an American rock musician, known primarily for his role as bassist of the rock band Adema.\n\nDave DeRoo was born in Bakersfield, California; his father, Doug DeRoo, was a well-known radio DJ. Many of his earliest performances were while he attended East Bakersfield High School where he was in the graduating class of 1992.\n\nIn 1991 DeRoo was one of the members of Sexart. Sexart has since gained cult notoriety for its connection with Korn and featured Jonathan Davis of Korn on vocals. Sexart, sometimes written SexArt or Sex Art featured musicians that would go on to careers with the bands Orgy, Dead by Sunrise, L.A.P.D, Korn, Cradle of Thorns, Videodrone and Adema. Sexart was never signed to a major label contract and did not record a full length demo but is featured on the compilation CD “Cultivation ‘92”. After Jonathan Davis left Sexart, to join what became known around the world as Korn, the name was changed to Supermodel and the band moved from Bakersfield to Huntington Beach, California.\n\nIn early 2000, DeRoo joined the band Adema, replacing their first bassist Mike \"Motown\" Montano. Soon after the lineup change and the addition of DeRoo as bassist Adema was signed to a contract with Arista Records by then CEO and president Antonio L.A. Reid. Adema’s self-titled debut album, \"Adema\", was released in August 2001 and was met with moderate success. Two singles from the album, \"Giving In\" and \"The Way You Like It,\" received significant radio airplay and the album was certified Gold. In 2005, inspired by then lead singer Luke Caraccioli, a former Marine himself, Adema became part of a long held tradition of musicians entertaining troops on the front lines by taking part in a USO tour.\n\nDave DeRoo is being seen with Music Man Stingray 5 string models and Schecter custom 5 string basses.\n\nIn November 2008, DeRoo was sentenced to 45 days in jail after pleading no contest to DUI causing injury. On January 29, 2011 DeRoo was arrested moments before a performance at the Webster Theater in Hartford Connecticut and charged with being a fugitive of justice. The arrest was the result of a June 2010 warrant issued Kern County for violating probation terms set forth in his 2008 arrest. DeRoo was held on remand with bail set at $1 million and the exact violation of probation was never made public.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103762", "title": "Fire Maidens from Outer Space", "text": "Fire Maidens from Outer Space\n\nFire Maidens from Outer Space (1956), released in the United States as Fire Maidens of Outer Space, is an 80-minute black-and-white science fiction feature film. It was a British production, written, produced and directed by American filmmaker Cy Roth as a collaboration between Cy Roth Productions and Criterion Films, and distributed in the UK by Eros Films and in the USA by Topaz Film Co.. The film stars Anthony Dexter as the lead astronaut, Susan Shaw as a \"fire maiden\" who befriends him, Paul Carpenter as the expedition captain, and Jacqueline Curtis as the \"fire maiden\" leader. There were 13 additional \"fire maidens\". The music score features cues excerpted from the opera \"Prince Igor\" by Alexander Borodin.\n\nMany film critics have dubbed the film the \"worst movie ever made\".\n\nThe discovery of signs of life on the 13th moon of Jupiter leads to the sending of a crew of five chain-smoking male astronauts, armed with handguns, to investigate. On the moon, they rescue Hestia, a beautiful girl, who is being attacked by a monster. They subsequently discover New Atlantis, a dying civilization, a colony of the original Atlantis. There are only seventeen people left, all women save for a single middle-aged man, Prasus, the girls' \"father\" (presumably adoptive). Prasus hopes the spacemen will stay and help him destroy the monster, which is a slender, male hominid creature, around six feet tall with dark, pitted skin, impervious to bullets, and described as a \"man with the head of a beast\".\n\nDuessa, the leader of the women, determines to hold them captive to use as mates. The monster lurks outside the city's walls, but breaks into the city and kills Prasus along with several of the women, including Duessa. It is killed by the earthmen, and the remaining women decide to let them return to earth. Hestia returns with them, and the astronauts promise to send spaceships back with husbands for the rest.\n\nThe \"Monthly Film Bulletin\" review credits Lito Carruthers as editor, and Scott MacGregor as assistant director. Although MacGregor is credited onscreen as production and art supervisor, John Pellatt receives screen credit as assistant director. The anonymous actor playing the creature wears dark, tight-fitting clothing with clearly visible zippers. Carruthers' contribution to the film has not been confirmed.\n\n\n\"Fire Maidens from Outer Space\" was released in 1956.\n\nIn a contemporary review, The \"Monthly Film Bulletin\" stated that \"Even the most dedicated connoisseurs of the artless are likely to find this British attempt at science-fiction something of a strain on their patience.\"\n\nFrom retrospective reviews, \"Halliwell's Film and Video Guide\" describes the film as \"a strong contender for the title of the worst movie ever made, with diaphanously clad English gals [sic] striking embarrassed poses against cardboard sets\". In Phil Hardy's book \"Science Fiction\" (1984), a review described the film as \"a bottom-of-the barrel piece of British Science Fiction\", and that \"the film's one claim to fame is its extensive use of classical music (mostly Borodin) as background music, a trick that Stanley Kubrick deployed with far more aplomb in \"\"\". The DVD Talk website stated \"Fire Maidens from Outer Space\" \"may be among the worst-ever professionally produced science fiction films\" \n\nIn November 1992, \"Fire Maidens of Outer Space\" was featured as an episode of movie-mocking television show \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\".\n\n\n"}
