{"id": "2091755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091755", "title": "Laško", "text": "Laško\n\nLaško (; ) is a spa town in eastern Slovenia. It is the seat of the Municipality of Laško. Traditionally the area was part of the Styria region. The municipality is now included in the Savinja Statistical Region. The town is located at the foothills of Hum Hill on the Savinja River. It was first mentioned in written documents dating to 1227 and was granted town privileges in 1927. It is known to have been settled since the Iron Age and Roman archaeological finds are common in the area, though the precise location of the Roman settlement is not known. Today the town is best known for its annual Festival of Beer & Flowers (\"Pivo - Cvetje\") and the local Laško Brewery, the largest brewery in the country. In 2010, Laško was heavily affected by flooding. The town's coat of arms depicts three white fleurs-de-lis on a blue field.\n\nLaško was attested in written sources in 1145 under the German name \"Tyver\" (and as \"Tyvre\" in 1182, \"Tyuer\" in 1342, and \"Tyffer\" in 1461). The name \"de Lasca\" was attested in 1483. The Slovene name is derived from \"*Laško selo\" 'Vlach village'; the first element comes from Slavic *\"Vȍlxъ\", referring to the Romanized Celtic population or to other Romance speakers. The Slovene name presumably refers to pre-Slavic ethnic settlement or to medieval settlers from a Romance-speaking area, and it predates the arrival of Italian settlers from the Bergamo area that arrived in Laško after 1554. The German name \"Tüffer\" is believed to derive from Slavic \"deber\" 'river strait', referring to the narrowing of the Savinja River. This name is still found in the village of Debro, which lies immediately upriver from Laško and was once known in German as \"Ober Tüffer\" (literally, 'upper Tüffer').\n\nArchaeological finds confirm prehistoric settlement in the Laško area. Stone axes discovered on the southeast slope below the old castle date back to the eighth century BC. Two silver Celtic coins have been found in Laško, and several stone funerary monuments dating to the Roman era have been found. The Roman road from Celeia to Zidani Most and onward to Neviodunum passed through Laško.\n\nOne of the oldest buildings in Laško is called Štok or Weixelberger Manor (). The property dates back to the mid-15th century, with records showing that it was given to Nikolaj Behaim by the Counts of Celje in 1437. It was acquired by Sigismund Weixelberger before 1506 and he built the manor at the site.\n\nAt the end of the 15th century Laško was targeted in Ottoman attacks and was burned at least once. Peasant revolts also took place in the own in 1515 and in 1635. Laško was struck by plague outbreaks several times, especially in 1646 and 1647.\n\nSchooling was established in Laško by around 1600. A lower primary school was set up under Empress Maria Theresa in the 18th century. The oldest large-scale industry in Laško dates back to the 18th century. A major fire devastated Laško in 1840, destroying half of the houses in the town. High water on the Savinja River also destroyed the town's bridge several times in the mid-19th century. The railroad reached Laško in 1849. A leather factory was established in 1929, and a textile factory in 1934.\n\nLaško is the site of two known mass graves from the period immediately after the Second World War. The Funeral Chapel Mass Grave () is located west of the Laško Brewery, under the funeral chapel outside the east wall of the town cemetery. The grave contains the remains of Croatian prisoners of war that were murdered after the war. The Cemetery Mass Grave () is located in an unmarked part of the town cemetery. The grave contains the remains of Croatian victims that were discovered during excavations and reburied.\n\nThe local castle, known as Tabor Castle, dates to the 12th century, although it was first mentioned in written sources dating to 1265. It was burned down during Ottoman Raids in the late 15th century and was extended in the 16th century.\n\nBrewing in the town dates back to 1817, when the bell-maker Ivan Steinmetz set up a brewery there. The Laško Brewery was sold to Heineken in 2016.\n\nThe parish church in the settlement is dedicated to Saint Martin and belongs to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Celje. It is a Romanesque building dating to the 13th century with various later additions and adaptations.\n\nThe healing properties of the local waters have been known since antiquity. Laško developed as a health resort towards the end of the 19th century.\n\nIn 1818 a report appeared in a Graz newspaper about the Laško springs. The water temperature was measured at and the establishment of a health spa was announced. An engineer named Rödel began to work systematically on the springs during the construction of the railway line. Work progressed from September 1852, when he purchased the land, until May 1854, when he ceremoniously opened the spa. The three springs were each given a name: the Emperor's Spring, Franz's Spring, and Joseph's Spring. The spa was given the name \"Kaiser Franz Josef Bad\", after Emperor Franz Joseph I of Austria. Along with a building with a pool, Rödel also rearranged the nearby mill and built a luxurious mansion.\n\nIn 1857 the spa was purchased by a Viennese professor and cosmopolitan named Stein, who invited the cream of Viennese society to the health spa. For this purpose he built an extension onto the spa building with a dance hall and planted a park. He also took care of his guests' social life. Stein was later forced to sell the spa. The spa's reputation returned under a later owner named Gunkel, who radically renovated it and in 1882 built his own hydroelectric power plant, the first on Slovene soil, which lit up most of the buildings and the whole park. In cooperation with the brewery, they began to brew thermal beer. During World War I the spa played the role of a military hospital. The property was left in disrepair after the war, but was partly renovated in 1923. Later the spa passed into the hands of the Pensions Institute (\"Pokojninski zavod\") and the Central Office for Workers' Insurance (\"Osrednji urad za zavarovanje delavcev\").\n\nIn October 1953, the spa was registered as a medical rehabilitation centre. Further development mainly followed the needs of the healthcare service and to a large degree it was the fruit of cooperation with the orthopedic (later neurological, traumatology, and neurosurgical) clinics in Ljubljana, regional hospitals, and health centres across Slovenia.\n\nThe Laško Thermal Spa Resort is becoming one of the most important health spas and tourist centres in Slovenia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2091762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091762", "title": "M104 Wolverine", "text": "M104 Wolverine\n\nThe M104 Wolverine Heavy Assault Bridge is an armored military engineering vehicle created by General Dynamics Land Systems, designed to provide deployable bridge capability for units engaged in military operations.\n\nSince the 1960s the United States Army has made use of armored bridge-laying vehicles based on the M48 Patton/M60 series of tanks. In recent years, however, the Army discovered that the aging M60 AVLB (Armored Vehicle Launched Bridge) was too slow to keep up with the M1 Abrams' top speed of roughly 70 km/h during field maneuvers. Additionally, the Abrams was so heavy that it could safely cross the AVLB's bridge only at a very slow speed.\n\nProgram development for a new armored bridge-laying vehicle began in 1983, and by 1994 General Dynamics Land Systems and the German MAN Mobile Bridges GmbH (since 2005 Krauss-Maffei Wegmann) had been awarded a contract. The first prototype vehicles were being tested by 1996, and the first production models were delivered by 2003. It is unclear why the vehicle was subject to such a long development time.\n\nBecause the Wolverine is essentially an M1A2 SEP tank with Leguan bridge-laying gear instead of a turret, it shares virtually all of the parent vehicle's speed, mobility, survivability, and automotive components. This commonality was a key design factor in the Wolverine's development. The Wolverine also features an advanced communications package designed to keep it in contact with local field commanders. However, the vehicle itself is unarmed.\n\nThe Wolverine is operated by two crewmen who sit within the hull. Both crewmen have access to the bridging controls, while the bridge is carried in two sections, stacked above the hull. Once a bridging site is chosen the vehicle securely anchors itself in place with a spade. The two sections of the bridge are joined together, and then the entire bridge is extended across the obstacle and dropped into place. The crewmen have the ability to make minor corrections during launch, if needed. Once operations are complete, the Wolverine drives across the bridge and retrieves it from the other side simply by reversing the process. The bridge can be launched in under five minutes or retrieved in less than ten minutes, all without the crewmen ever leaving the safety of their vehicle.\n\nOnce launched, the 26-meter Leguan bridge can support a 70-ton vehicle moving at 16 km/h, or 10 miles per hour. The Wolverine thus allows the heaviest of vehicles to cross craters, ditches, and damaged bridges at combat speed. This mobility is a decisive advantage for armored units.\n\nTo date the United States Army has received 44 Wolverines, which have been distributed to a few select engineer units. The Army had originally intended to purchase 465 vehicles; however, budget cuts and a shift in philosophy toward a lighter fighting force meant that the Army no longer needed hundreds of bridgelaying vehicles. While the Army did not plan to purchase any more Wolverines, it had, at the time, reserved the right to restart production if necessary. However, as of 2016 the Wolverine is being replaced by the Leonardo DRS Joint Assault Bridge (JAB), thus effectively ending the Wolverine program.\n\nThe M1074 Joint Assault Bridge also has an Abrams tank chassis, but is combined with an scissor bridge. While the M104 was intended to replace the AVLB, it was found to be too expensive and complicated to maintain and operate. While the JAB's bridge is shorter, it has a faster deployment time of three minutes, compared to the Wolverine's 3-5 minute set-up time. On August 23, 2016, DRS Technologies, Inc., announced that the U.S. Army had awarded it an indefinite quantity contract worth up to $400 million to build the new Joint Assault Bridge (JAB) system to carry, deploy and recover a heavy “scissor” bridge. First deliveries are planned in mid-2017, with low-rate initial production expected to be reached in 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091771", "title": "E.ON", "text": "E.ON\n\nE.ON SE is a German electric utility company based in Essen, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It runs one of the world's largest investor-owned electric utility service providers. The name comes from the Greek word \"aeon\" which means \"age\". The company is a component of the Euro Stoxx 50 stock market index, DAX stock index and a member of the Dow Jones Global Titans 50 index.\n\nIt operates in over 30 countries and has over 33 million customers. Its chief executive officer (\"vorstandsvorsitzender\") is Johannes Teyssen.\n\nE.ON was created in 2000 through the merger of VEBA and VIAG. In 2016, it separated its conventional power generation and energy trading operations into a new company, Uniper, while retaining retail, distribution and nuclear operations. E.ON sold its stake in Uniper through a stock market listing and sold the remaining stock to the Finnish utility Fortum.\n\nIn March 2018, it was announced that E.ON would acquire renewable energy utility Innogy through a complex €43 billion asset swap deal between E.ON, Innogy and RWE. The deal was approved by the EU antitrust authorities in September 2019.\n\nIn 2019, E.ON became the first of the \"big six\" UK power companies to switch all of its British electricity customers entirely to renewable electricity.\n\nE.ON came into existence in 2000 through the merger of energy companies VEBA and VIAG (Vereinigte Industrieunternehmungen AG; United Industrial Enterprises Corporation). In the United Kingdom, Powergen was acquired by E.ON in January 2002. In 2003 E.ON entered the gas market through the €10.3 billion acquisition of Ruhrgas (later: E.ON Ruhrgas). E.ON Ruhrgas was represented in more than 20 countries in Europe.\n\nE.ON also acquired Sydkraft in Sweden and OGK-4 (now: Unipro) in Russia. Sydkraft, Powergen, and OGK-4 were rebranded to E.ON Sverige, E.ON UK, and E.ON Russia respectively. In the United States, E.ON inherited Louisville, Kentucky-based Louisville Gas & Electric Energy, via the acquisition of Powergen, and operated it as E.ON US, until 2010, when E.ON US was sold to Pennsylvania-based PPL for $7.625 billion. The sale was closed on 1 November 2010, with E-ON US becoming LG&E and KU Energy.\n\nE.ON attempted to acquire Endesa in 2006, however this acquisition was overtaken by a joint bid from Italian utility Enel in conjunction with Spanish company Acciona. E.ON acquired about €10 billion of assets that the enlarged Enel was required to divest under EU competition rulings.\n\nIn July 2009, the European Commission fined GDF Suez and E.ON €553 million each over arrangements on the MEGAL pipeline. It was the second biggest fine imposed by the European Commission and the first in the energy sector. In 1975, Ruhrgas and Gaz de France concluded a deal according to which they agreed not to sell gas in each other's home market. The deal was abandoned in 2005.\n\nIn 2009, E.ON and RWE established an equally owned joint venture Horizon Nuclear Power to develop around 6,000 MWe of new nuclear capacity in the United Kingdom by 2025 at the Wylfa and Oldbury sites. However, in March 2012 E.ON and RWE announced they were pulling out of the project due to difficult financial conditions.\n\nIn August 2011, the company announced a possible loss of 10,000 of its 85,600 employees due to the German decision to close all the country's nuclear power stations by 2022, instead of by 2036 as the Bundestag had decided on 28 October 2010.\n\nIn May 2014, the UK energy sector regulator Ofgem ordered the company to pay 330,000 of its customers a total of £12 million due to poor sales practices the company engaged in between June 2010 and December 2013. At the time it was the largest penalty levied against a UK energy supplier.\n\nIn November 2014, E.ON announced it would abstain from fossil energy in the future. It transferred its fossil energy businesses into a new company, Uniper, which started operating on 1 January 2016. E.ON sold a 53% stake in the business through a listing on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in September 2016. In 2017, it agreed to sell its remaining stake in Uniper to the Finnish power company Fortum. The deal was finalized in June 2018. However, Uniper continues to operate as an independent entity.\nIn July 2018, E.ON announced that 500 jobs would be lost in the United Kingdom, blaming the energy price cap due to be implemented by Ofgem.\n\nIn March 2018, it was announced that E.ON would acquire renewable energy utility Innogy from its controlling shareholder RWE. The deal resulted in E.ON becoming a pure retail and distribution company. This was achieved through a complex €43 billion asset swap deal between E.ON, Innogy and RWE, where E.ON took over Innogy's retail and distribution business, while RWE took over both Innogy's renewable energy generation portfolio as well as E.ON's remaining energy generation assets. In addition, RWE took a 16.7% stake in E.ON and E.ON received a cash payment of €1.5 billion. The deal was finalized in September 2019.\n\nE.ON is one of the major public utility companies in Europe and the world's largest investor-owned energy service provider. As result of mergers, E.ON inherited the subsidiaries of VEBA, VIAG and Ruhrgas in Central and Eastern Europe. E.ON is present in most of Scandinavia.\n\nE.ON is organized into the following business areas:\n\nE.ON subsidiary PreussenElektra GmbH operates the Brokdorf, Grohnde, and Isar 2 nuclear power plants. It is decommissioning Isar 1, Grafenrheinfeld, Unterweser, Stade and Würgassen nuclear power plants. It also holds minority stakes in the RWE-operated Gundremmingen and Emsland NPPs. According to the assets swap deal between E.ON and RWE, RWE will acquire these minority stakes.\n\nEon was a major wind energy player across multiple countries. In October 2019 the renewable energy division EC&R was sold to competitor RWE. EC&R has assets in the UK, Sweden, Germany, Poland and the US. Notably E.ON UK, owned 30% of the London Array project, which is a 630 MW wind generation farm in the Thames estuary. Another notable wind farm is Roscoe, which was the largest in the world at the time of completion, and for a number of years afterwards.\n\nThe website (accessed 2019) of Enerjisa which owns Tufanbeyli, a coal fired power station in Turkey, says Eon is a shareholder and includes the Eon logo.\n\nE.ON Digital Technology (previously E.ON Business Services until January 2019, E.ON IT and is:energy) is the IT service provider of the energy company E.ON. It bundles business services for finance and HR as well as IT under a single roof and employs around 3,800 people. These are located at four legal entities in Germany (EBS GmbH, EBS Berlin GmbH, EBS Hanover GmbH and EBS Regensburg GmbH); plus legal entities in ten further countries (Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Romania, Slovakia, Sweden and United Kingdom).\n\nE.ON UK sponsored the FA Cup for four years, from 2006 to the end of the 2009/10 football season. The four-year deal which included the FA Women's Cup and the FA Youth Cup was worth around £40 million. E.ON is the official energy partner of The Football League and sponsors a collection of home programmes on Channel Five in the UK. E.ON has previously sponsored ITV Weather, the Ipswich Town football club and the Rugby Cup.\n\nBetween 2000 and 2006, E.ON was the main kit sponsor of German Bundesliga club Borussia Dortmund.\n\nE.ON Ruhrgas is the main sponsor of the IBU biathlon World Cup and is the main sponsor of the Ski jumping World Cup.\n\nE.ON Sverige sponsored the home arena of Swedish ice hockey team Timrå IK from 2003 to 2015.\n\nE.ON was one of the main sponsors of 2007–2008 Dutch Eredivisie Champions PSV Eindhoven.\n\nBetween 1998 and 2014, E.ON and its predecessor company VEBA spent more than Euro30 million ($41 million) supporting the Museum Kunstpalast, located next to the corporate headquarters in Düsseldorf.\n\nIn 2014, E.ON decided to sell Jackson Pollock's \"Number 5 (Elegant Lady)\" (1951), a painting the company has owned since 1980, at Christie's auction to keep funding the Museum Kunstpalast. Pollock had swapped it in 1954 with New York gallery owner Martha Jackson for the convertible in which he had a fatal accident two years later. In 1980, Ulrich Hartmann, head of VEBA's corporate board office, pushed for the purchase from art dealer Alfred Schmela. The acquisition was considered the foundation for E.ON's art collection of more than 1,800 works.\n\nE.ON is also sponsor of Brain Bar, a Budapest-based, annually held festival on the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091772", "title": "Mitsusuke Harada", "text": "Mitsusuke Harada\n\nHarada was born on 16 November 1928 in Dairen, Manchuria, which was then part of the Empire of Japan; his father was a Japanese army officer. He lived there until the age of 9 years, when his family returned to Tokyo. Harada began training in karate in 1943 at the Shotokan karate \"dojo\" (training hall) in Zōshigaya, Toshima Ward, Tokyo. His first class was taught by Genshin Hironishi, then ranked 4th \"dan\". He later met Gigō Funakoshi there, only two years before the latter's death due to illness. On 29 April 1945, an Allied bombing raid on Tokyo destroyed the Shotokan \"dojo\"; Harada wrote a letter to Gichin Funakoshi requesting to continue training if possible, and Funakoshi invited him to train at his eldest son's home, in Koishikawa. Harada studied directly under Gichin Funakoshi.\n\nIn 1948, Harada began studying economics and commerce at Waseda University. At the university, he trained under both Funakoshi (on Saturdays) and Toshio Kamata (Watanabe), and befriended Tsutomu Ohshima. In 1949, the Japan Karate Association (JKA) was formed; Harada was often escorting Funakoshi by taxi around this time. He also came into contact with Shigeru Egami (also studying commerce at the time) and Tadao Okuyama, then ranked 3rd \"dan\", at Waseda. Harada trained under both men, and they had a significant influence on his karate style. Harada completed his Bachelor of Commerce degree in 1953 and went on to complete a master's degree in 1955. During postgraduate studies, he assisted Masatoshi Nakayama in teaching karate to US military personnel.\n\nFollowing completion of his tertiary studies, Harada took a position with the Bank of South America in São Paulo, Brazil. His manager there, on learning of his new employee's martial art training, asked him to conduct a demonstration; following this, fellow employees and other associates began training under his direction. Initially, the karate training took place in a judo \"dojo\". Harada wrote to Funakoshi to request affiliation with the JKA, but the latter apparently wrote back advising him to start his own karate organisation. This marked the birth of Karate-do Shotokan Brazileo.\n\nIn 1956, Funakoshi awarded Harada the rank of 5th \"dan\", which was then the highest rank in Shotokan karate. He has kept the same rank to this day, and 5th \"dan\" is still the highest rank attainable in his organisation (the KDS). In April 1957, Egami sent Harada a telegram to inform him that Funakoshi had died. In the period that followed, political troubles saw many of Funakoshi's senior students (including Harada) form the Shōtōkai group separate from the JKA.\n\nBy 1963, Harada had around 16 \"yudansha\" (students holding black belt status) at his \"dojo\". At the time, karate students in Paris had heard of him and saved enough money to buy him an airline ticket to their city; Harada resigned from the bank, intending to take a year to travel before returning to Brazil. After teaching in France, he travelled to the United Kingdom at the invitation of Kenshiro Abbe. In early November 1963, he taught a karate course at Abbe's \"dojo\". On 23 November 1963, Harada demonstrated karate as part of the National Judo Championships being held in London.\n\nThrough the mid-1960s, Harada taught karate in the UK and Brussels. He founded the KDS in 1965. Harada returned to Japan for six months in 1967 and, while he apparently did not consider the journey fruitful overall, he did confirm a replacement to lead his \"dojo\" in Brazil: Arinobu Ishibata. Harada has been based in the UK ever since. The KDS experienced significant divisions in 1971 and 1988.\n\nHarada has also taught at other overseas clubs that were developed including: Canada, Estonia, Finland, Gibraltar, Israel, Morocco, Poland, Spain, USA.\n\nIn October 1998, the Nihon Karate-do Shotokai invited Harada back to Tokyo to demonstrate his art as part of Shotokan karate's 60th anniversary celebration, and he and a selection of his top students did so. In 2007, Queen Elizabeth II appointed Harada as a Member of the Order of the British Empire for his services to karate. Martial arts author Clive Layton has written two biographical works on Harada: \"Karate Master: The life and times of Mitsusuke Harada\" (1997) and \"Reminiscences by Master Mitsusuke Harada\" (1999, co-authored with Harada). As of 2019, Harada resides in South Wales and continues to practice.\n\nhttps://www.facebook.com/KDSKarate/\nhttps://www.kdsbelgium.be/\n"}
{"id": "2091782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091782", "title": "Lot (unit)", "text": "Lot (unit)\n\nA lot is an old unit of weight used in many European countries since the Middle Ages until the beginning of the 20th century. Most often it was defined as either or of a pound (or more precisely of whatever mass value one local pound had at the time). Recorded values range from 10 to 50 grams.\n\nIn the Imperial and US costumary systems of measurement, a lot is of a pound, or an ounce, making it exactly 14.174 761 562 5 grams if derived from the international pound.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091783", "title": "Invasive carcinoma of no special type", "text": "Invasive carcinoma of no special type\n\nInvasive carcinoma of no special type (NST) also known as invasive ductal carcinoma or ductal NOS and previously known as invasive ductal carcinoma, not otherwise specified (NOS) is a group of breast cancers that do not have the \"specific differentiating features\". Those that have these features belong to other types.\n\nIn this group are: pleomorphic carcinoma, carcinoma with osteoclast-like stromal giant cells, carcinoma with choriocarcinomatous features, and carcinoma with melanotic features. It is a diagnosis of exclusion, which means that for the diagnosis to be made all the other specific types must be ruled out.\n\nInvasive carcinoma of no special type (NST) is the most common form of invasive breast cancer. It accounts for 55% of breast cancer incidence upon diagnosis, according to statistics from the United States in 2004. On a mammogram, it is usually visualized as a mass with fine spikes radiating from the edges. On physical examination, this lump usually feels much harder or firmer than benign breast lesions such as fibroadenoma. On microscopic examination, the cancerous cells invade and replace the surrounding normal tissues. IDC is divided in several histological subtypes.\n\nIn many cases, ductal carcinoma is asymptomatic, and detected as abnormal results on mammography. When symptoms occur, a painless, enlarging mass that does not fluctuate with the menstrual period may be felt. Pinching of the overlying skin may also be seen. Certain subtypes, such as inflammatory carcinomas, may result in a swollen, enlarged and tender breast. All variants of cancer, if there is metastatic spread, may cause enlarged lymph nodes and affect other organs. \n\nThe cancer may form from the precancerous lesion called ductal carcinoma in situ.\n\nTumors under 1 cm in diameter are unlikely to spread systemically. Tumors are staged by size.\nAbsence of cancer cells in the lymph nodes is a good indication that the cancer has not spread systemically. Presence of cancer in the lymph nodes indicates the cancer may have spread. In studies, some women have had presence of cancer in the lymph nodes, were not treated with chemotherapy, and still did not have a systemic spread. Therefore, lymph node involvement is not a positive predictor of spread.\nTumor size staging and node involvement staging can be combined into a single clinical staging number.\nCarcinomatous cells are seen below the basement membrane of lactiferous ducts. Otherwise, there are no specific histologic characteristics, essentially making it a diagnosis of exclusion.\n\nThe appearance of cancer cells under a microscope is another predictor of systemic spread. The more different the cancer cells look compared to normal duct cells, the greater the risk of systemic spread. There are three characteristics that differentiate cancer cells from normal cells.\n\nThe histologic appearance of cancer cells can be scored on these three parameters on a scale from one to three. The sum of these grades is a number between 3 and 9. The score is called a Bloom Richardson Grade (BR) and is expressed [sum of the grades]/9. For example, cells that were graded 2 on all three parameters would result in a BR score of 6/9.\n\nA score of 5 and under is considered Low. 6 to 7 is considered Intermediate. 8 to 9 is considered High.\n\nThe presence of cancer cell in small blood vessels is called vascular invasion. The presence of vascular invasion increases the probability of systemic spread.\n\nDNA analysis indicates the amount of DNA in cancer cells and how fast the cancer is growing.\n\nCells with the normal amount of DNA are called diploid. Cells with too much or too little DNA are called aneuploid. Aneuploid cells are more likely to spread than diploid cells.\n\nDNA testings indicates the rate of growth by determining the number of cells in the synthetic phase (S Phase). An S Phase > 10% means a higher chance of spreading.\n\nThe results of DNA testing are considered less reliable predictors of spread than size, histology, and lymph node involvement.\n\nAccording to the NIH Consensus Conference, if DCIS is allowed to go untreated, the natural course or natural history varies according to the grade of the DCIS. Unless treated, approximately 60 percent of low-grade DCIS lesions will have become invasive at 40 years follow-up. High-grade DCIS lesions that have been inadequately resected and not given radiotherapy have a 50 percent risk of becoming invasive breast cancer within seven years. Approximately half of low-grade DCIS detected at screening will represent overdiagnosis, but overdiagnosis of high-grade DCIS is rare. The natural history of intermediate-grade DCIS is difficult to predict. Approximately one-third of malignant calcification clusters detected at screening mammography already have an invasive focus.\n\nThe prognosis of IDC depends, in part, on its histological subtype. Mucinous, papillary, cribriform, and tubular carcinomas have longer survival, and lower recurrence rates. The prognosis of the most common form of IDC, called \"IDC Not Otherwise Specified\", is intermediate. Finally, some rare forms of breast cancer (e.g., sarcomatoid carcinoma, inflammatory carcinoma) have a poor prognosis. Regardless of the histological subtype, the prognosis of IDC depends also on tumor size, presence of cancer in the lymph nodes, histological grade, presence of cancer in small vessels (vascular invasion), expression of hormone receptors and of oncogenes like HER2/neu.\n\nThese parameters can be entered into models that provide a statistical probability of systemic spread. The probability of systemic spread is a key factor in determining whether radiation and chemotherapy are worthwhile. The individual parameters are important also because they can predict how well a cancer will respond to specific chemotherapy agents.\n\nOverall, the five-year survival rate of invasive ductal carcinoma was approximately 85% in 2003.\n\nTreatment of invasive carcinoma of no special type (NST) depends on the size of the mass (size of the tumor measured in its longest direction):\n\nThe treatment options offered to an individual patient are determined by the form, stage and location of the cancer, and also by the age, history of prior disease and general health of the patient. Not all patients are treated the same way.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091785", "title": "Billy Loes", "text": "Billy Loes\n\nWilliam Loes (December 13, 1929 – July 15, 2010) was an American right-handed pitcher who spent eleven seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) with the Brooklyn Dodgers (1950, 1952–56), Baltimore Orioles (1956–59) and San Francisco Giants (1960–61). He appeared in three World Series with the Dodgers, including the only one won by the franchise when it was based in Brooklyn in 1955.\nIn an 11-season career, Loes posted an 80–63 record with 645 strikeouts and a 3.89 ERA in 1190.1 innings pitched. He made the American League All-Star team in 1957.\n\nAmong Major League Baseball's video archives is a television broadcast of the sixth game of the 1952 World Series, of which Loes was one of the starting pitchers. During the game, announcer Red Barber states that Loes was the son of Greek immigrants who had changed his last name. Further, says Barber, Loes would not tell Barber what his original last name was because, according to Loes, Barber would be unable to pronounce, spell or remember that name.\n\nLoes distinguished himself in several ways in the 1952 World Series. When asked how the Dodgers would fare, he predicted the Yankees would win in seven, but was misquoted as saying the Yankees would win in six. During the sixth game, he became the first pitcher in World Series history to commit a balk. In the seventh inning, he was starting his windup when the ball dropped from his hand. \"Too much spit on it\", he said later. Then a grounder hit by Yankee pitcher Vic Raschi bounced off his leg for a single, allowing a run to score. Afterward, he said he lost the ground ball in the sun.\n\nLoes said that he did not want to be a 20-game winner, \"because then I'd be expected to do it every year.\" His career high in wins came in 1953, when he went 14–8 for the pennant-winning Dodgers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2091793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091793", "title": "Alan Walker", "text": "Alan Walker\n\nAlan Walker may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091796", "title": "Camp Mountain rail accident", "text": "Camp Mountain rail accident\n\nThe Camp Mountain rail accident occurred at approximately 9:48am on 5 May 1947 when a crowded picnic train derailed on a sharp left-hand curve between Ferny Grove and Camp Mountain stations on the now-closed Dayboro line, approximately northwest of Brisbane, the state capital of Queensland, Australia.\n\nThe Camp Mountain train disaster is still the largest loss of life in a rail accident on the Queensland railway network with 16 fatalities, including both the driver and fireman of the train; 38 were injured.\n\nA branch line was opened from the North Coast railway line at Mayne Junction (north of Bowen Hills station) to Enoggera in 1899, to Ferny Grove and Samford in 1918, finally reaching Dayboro on 27 September 1920.\n\nBy 1908, banana growing in the Samford district had become one of the area's most important industries, and in 1926 and 1927, more bananas were sent from Samford railway station, just down from Camp Mountain, to Sydney and Melbourne than any other station in Queensland. This successful industry existed until the banana bunchy top virus wiped out the crops in the early 1930s. Dairy farming and timber were other industries in the district and out to the end of the line at Dayboro, as well as the quarrying of granite at Camp Mountain, used in the foundations of Brisbane City Hall.\n\nTraffic on the Dayboro line by 1947 was light, with three weekly mixed train services, a daily railmotor service, and another on Thursdays and Saturdays. Most suburban passenger services from Brisbane terminated at Mitchelton, with the occasional through service to Ferny Grove.\n\nThe train was chartered by the social and recreation club for employees of the Department of Trade and Customs, who were travelling to a picnic venue at Closeburn to celebrate the Labour Day public holiday. The special train, service number E91, consisted of a 4-8-0 C17-class steam locomotive, No. 824, and six wooden suburban passenger carriages, Evans Cars numbered 740, 739, 742, 741, 743 and 744. It was one of a number of chartered trains to travel on the line on the day, conveying groups to numerous picnic locations in the scenic country area north-west of Brisbane.\n\nThe service departed from Roma Street railway station at 8:50am, then Central railway station in Brisbane at 8:59am. It was estimated that the train carried 215 passengers, most of them Customs employees and their families for a family day out consisting of a picnic lunch with dancing and games of cricket.\n\nAfter receiving authority from Ferny Grove railway station to enter the section of track to Samford, the train slowly climbed the Samford Range. Especially due to the hilly area, the speed limit on the Dayboro line at the time was on straight sections of track, and through curves.\n\nAs the train descended Camp Mountain Knob, it suddenly picked up speed before the first curve, approximately after crossing the peak of the Samford Range. Carriages rocked dangerously, causing luggage to fall from overhead racks, lighting fixtures rattled, and women and children began screaming.\n\nThe locomotive left the rails on a left-hand curve with a radius of six chains (approximately ) at an estimated speed of . The locomotive tipped onto its right side and ploughed into an embankment, the coal tender upended, and water tank set free. The first carriage struck the water tank squarely, with the three leading passenger carriages telescoped into the wreckage; all of the front carriage and the two leading compartments of the second were destroyed, while the leading bogie of the third carriage derailed.\n\nThe force of the accident was significant, causing the total length of the engine, coal tender, water tank and first three carriages to compress from , to . Damage to the trailing three carriages was minimal.\n\nThe guard of the train, Mr GE Evans, was sitting in the rear carriage, looking out of the left window. The force of the crash threw him into the corner of his compartment. He picked himself up after the train stopped, rushed to the top of the cutting beside the line as a vantage point to see what had happened, then returned to the carriage and applied the handbrake. He deemed that the time of the accident was 9:48am, after looking at his watch displaying 9:50am and allowing two minutes since the time of impact.\n\nEvans took the first aid kit from the Guard's compartment and passed it to a passenger towards the front of the train. He then took the breakdown kit, rushed back along the line passed and set three detonators and red flags to warn and stop the expected following train.\n\nThe train's whistle sounded constantly after the accident, alerting locals of an incident having occurred. The first call to the headquarters of the Queensland Ambulance Service Transport Brigades was received at 10:08am, and in 70 minutes 18 cars and 26 men were on the scene.\n\nThe fireman of the train, Mr Angus Knight from Grange, was killed instantly from being crushed by the wheels of the engine. The driver, Mr Charles Hind, 50, of Woolloongabba was alive, however pinned across the thighs and knees against the train's boiler in the cabin. Scalded with escaping steam, an ambulance officer gave Hind a syringe of the painkiller morphine, which he injected into himself.\n\nDriver Hind was only recently transferred to the Mayne Depot, had not driven trains on the line past Ferny Grove before, and was being tutored by Fireman Knight. A former employee of Queensland Government Railways who was on the following train, Mr Patrick Campbell, spoke to Hind when he was trapped. He asked what had happened, and Hind replied that he did not know the line he was driving on, and therefore would not have been entirely aware of the terrain and conditions.\n\nThe driver died in hospital the next day.\n\nA Court Inquiry was held into the crash, headed by Supreme Court of Queensland Judge, Sir Alan Mansfield, and attended by railway experts, several passengers and local witnesses. The inquiry found that the driver had been rostered to drive a train on a line he had little knowledge of, and was driving the train with excessive speed.\n\nIn his findings, Judge Mansfield said:\n\nThe driver was charged with having the foremost accountability for the excessive speed the train was travelling at, with shared blame directed to both the fireman and guard. The cost of compensation for the deaths and injuries from the accident was £23,554.\n\nAfter the construction of Samford Road over the Samford Range after World War II, traffic on the Dayboro line declined, with a general shift to road transportation. The Dayboro line was closed beyond Ferny Grove in 1955 and the line in the vicinity of the accident site was converted into a sealed rural road, McLean Road South.\n\nThe accident site is commemorated with a stone cairn and plaque on the northern side of McLean Road South, erected by the Pine Rivers council in 1988.\n\nLocomotive No. 824 from the accident was repaired and placed back into service, working around South East Queensland. In 1958 it was transferred to Toowoomba, and withdrawn from service in May 1967, exactly 20 years after the disaster. At that point, as a donation to the Bungil Shire Council, it was towed to the South-Western Queensland town of Injune, approximately north-west of Brisbane, at the end of a branch line from Roma that had recently closed on 1 January 1967. It sits behind the town's ambulance station and a high fence, and is listed in a town map as an \"historical steam train\".\n\nThe locomotive has incorrect numbers and builder's plates, as they were purchased by a railway enthusiast when it was withdrawn from service.\n\nAt 10:00am on 8 May 1947, memorial services were held at The Cathedral of St Stephen and St John's Cathedral in Brisbane. Seven victims of the disaster rest in five Brisbane cemeteries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2091800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091800", "title": "Dracula: Prince of Darkness", "text": "Dracula: Prince of Darkness\n\nDracula: Prince of Darkness is a 1966 British supernatural horror film directed by Terence Fisher. The film was produced by Hammer Film Productions, and is the third entry in Hammer's \"Dracula\" series, as well as the second to feature Christopher Lee as Count Dracula, the titular vampire. It also stars Andrew Keir, Francis Matthews, and Barbara Shelley.\n\nThe film was photographed in Techniscope by Michael Reed, designed by Bernard Robinson and scored by James Bernard.\n\nA prologue replays the final scenes from \"Dracula\", in which Doctor Van Helsing destroys Count Dracula by sunlight and eliminating his cult; only the memory of Dracula's evil remains.\n\nThe main story begins as Father Sandor prevents local authorities from disposing of a woman's corpse as if it were a vampire. Sandor chastises the presiding priest for perpetuating the fear of vampirism, and reminds him that Dracula was destroyed ten years previously. Sandor visits an inn and warns four English tourists, the Kents, not to visit Karlsbad; they ignore his advice.\n\nAs night approaches, the Kents find themselves abandoned by their fear-stricken coach driver two kilometres from Karlsbad, in view of a castle. A driverless carriage takes them to the castle, where they find a dining table set for four people and their bags unpacked in the bedrooms. A servant named Klove explains that his master, the late Count Dracula, had ordered that the castle should always be ready to welcome strangers. After dinner, the Kents settle in their rooms.\n\nLater that night, Alan investigates a noise and follows Klove to the crypt, where Klove kills him and mixes his blood with Dracula's ashes, reviving the Count. Klove entices Helen to the crypt, where she becomes Dracula's first victim.\n\nThe next morning, Charles and Diana can find no trace of Alan, Helen or Klove. Charles takes Diana to a woodsman's hut, and then returns to the castle to search for Alan and Helen. Klove tricks Diana into returning to the castle. Charles finds Alan's dismembered body in a trunk in the crypt. It is now dark and Dracula rises. Diana meets Helen, but Helen, who has become one of the undead, attacks her. Dracula enters and warns Helen away from Diana. Charles struggles with Dracula, until Diana realizes that her crucifix is an effective weapon against vampires. Charles improvises a larger cross and drives Dracula away. They escape from the castle in a carriage, but lose control on the steep roads. The carriage crashes and Diana is knocked unconscious. Charles carries her for several hours through the woods until they are rescued by Father Sandor, who takes them to his abbey.\n\nKlove arrives at the monastery in a wagon carrying two coffins containing Dracula and Helen, but is denied admission by the monks. Ludwig, a patient at the abbey, is in thrall to Dracula and invites the Count inside. Helen convinces Diana to open the window and let her in, claiming to have escaped from Dracula. Diana does so and Helen bites her arm. Dracula drags Helen off, as he wants Diana for himself. Charles bursts into the room and drives the vampires out. Sandor sterilizes the bite with the heat from an oil lamp.\n\nSandor puts silver crucifixes in the two coffins to prevent the vampires from coming back. He then captures Helen and drives a stake through her heart, killing her. Ludwig lures Diana into Dracula's presence, where the Count hypnotizes her into removing her crucifix. Dracula coerces her to drink his blood from his bare chest, but Charles returns in time to prevent it, forcing Dracula to flee with the unconscious Diana.\n\nCharles and Sandor arm themselves, and follow on horseback. A shortcut allows them to get in front of Dracula's wagon and stop it. Charles shoots Klove. who has apparently removed Sandor's crucifixes from the coffins, but the horses gallop off to the castle. Diana is rescued, while Dracula's coffin is thrown onto the ice that covers the moat. Charles attempts to stake Dracula, but the Count springs out of his coffin and attacks him. Sandor shoots the ice, and it breaks. Diana rescues Charles, and Dracula sinks into the freezing waters and drowns.\n\nDracula does not speak in the film, save for a few hisses. According to Christopher Lee: \"I didn’t speak in that picture. The reason was very simple. I read the script and saw the dialogue! I said to Hammer, if you think I’m going to say any of these lines, you’re very much mistaken.\" Screenwriter Jimmy Sangster disputed that account in his memoir \"Inside Hammer\", writing that \"Vampires don't chat. So I didn't write him any dialogue. Christopher Lee has claimed that he refused to speak the lines he was given...So you can take your pick as to why Christopher Lee didn't have any dialogue in the picture. Or you can take my word for it. I didn't write any.\"\n\nThe film was written into a novel by John Burke as part of his 1967 book \"The Second Hammer Horror Film Omnibus\".\n\nThe film was made back to back with \"Rasputin, the Mad Monk\", using many of the same sets and cast, including Lee, Shelley, Matthews and Farmer. Shelley later remembered accidentally swallowing one of her fangs in one scene, and having to drink salt water to bring it back up again because of the tight shooting schedule, as well as there being no spare set of fangs.\n\nThe film was released in some markets on a double feature with \"The Plague of the Zombies\". Plastic vampire fangs and cardboard \"zombie eyes\" glasses were distributed to audience members as a gimmick.\n\nIn North America, the film earned $364,937 in rentals. In France, the film drew 854,197 admissions.\n\nThe film was released with \"The Plague of the Zombies\". According to Fox records, the films needed to earn $1,500,000 in rentals to break even and made $2,345,000, meaning that it made a profit.\n\n\"Variety\" wrote that the picture \"should please the following of this type of film and do all right at the wickets. Terence Fisher has directed it with his usual knowhow and the screenplay by John Samson is a workmanlike job which provides a useful number of mild thrills and little enough of the misplaced yocks that sometimes creep into this sort of pic.\" \"The Monthly Film Bulletin\" wrote, \"Apart from one or two welcome innovations—notably the sort of Instant Vampire recipe by which Dracula is resuscitated, and his final destruction by drowning rather than by the usual procedures—this is the same old hash as before ... The interiors are quite tastefully decorated, but script, direction and acting (except for Philip Latham's sinister butler, and Andrew Keir's forthright Father Sandor) leave much to be desired.\"\n\n\"Dracula: Prince of Darkness\" has been well received by critics in more recent years, and currently holds a 79% approval rating on movie review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes based on 19 reviews.\n\n\"The Hammer Story: The Authorised History of Hammer Films\" called it \"perhaps the quintessential Hammer horror\", but said that it \"contains little that audiences hadn't seen before.\"\n\nThe film was one of the very first Hammer horror films to be released to U.K. DVD. More recently, on 19 January 2012, Hammer Films announced on their restoration blog that StudioCanal UK would release a Region B Blu-ray Disc version of the film on 5 March of that year. The announcement stated it would be \"the chilling DRACULA PRINCE OF DARKNESS, restored at Pinewood from 2-perf cut negative, scanned and restored in 2k. DRACULA PRINCE OF DARKNESS will be presented in all its Techniscope glory, in the original aspect ratio of 2.35:1.\" The Flicker Club in London screened the restored film on 24 February 2012 at a venue in the Old Vic Tunnels. The screening was preceded by a guest introduction by Marcus Hearn and a guest reading from Bram Stoker's original novel \"Dracula\" by actor Stephen Tompkinson.\n\nIn the U.S., Millennium Entertainment (now Alchemy) released the film as part of their Region 1 DVD \"Hammer Horror Collection\" in a two-disc, three-film set, along with \"The Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires\" and \"Frankenstein Created Woman\". It is also available on a double feature Region 1 release along with \"The Satanic Rites of Dracula\".\n\nScream Factory announced a Collector's Edition Blu-ray release of the film for December 18, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091805", "title": "Eastbourne Borough F.C.", "text": "Eastbourne Borough F.C.\n\nEastbourne Borough Football Club is an English football club based in Eastbourne, East Sussex. The club is an FA Chartered Standard Community club affiliated to the Sussex County Football Association and is a registered Community Interest Company.\n\nThe club joined the Sussex County League in 1983 as a founding member of the new Division Three. Following two successive promotions in 1986/87 and 1987/88 under their then manager, Pete Cherry, they played in Division One until the end of the 20th century. The club then experienced a rise through the divisions under Garry Wilson, gaining promotion to the Conference Premier in 2007–08.\n\nThe club currently participates in the National League South, the sixth tier of English football. They are known as The Sports after their previous name as Langney Sports. Eastbourne Borough play their home matches at Priory Lane in Langney, Eastbourne.\n\nThey were formed in 1964 as Langney F.C., naming themselves after the Langney district of Eastbourne in which the club continues to play its home games. It all started when a group of friends had played for the Langney and Friday Street youth team were too old to carry on playing and decided to form their own team so they could continue to play football.\nOn forming in 1964, Langney FC entered the Eastbourne & District Football League, competing in Division 2. (Clearly, the team was happy to just have 11 men on the pitch, sans fans.) Despite forming in 1964, Langney only affiliated with the Sussex FA in the Summer 1965, which marks its first official season. Prior to the 1968/69 season there was a change of name to Langney Sports F.C. when the club affiliated to the Langney Community Association. At this time the club was playing on local recreation grounds before moving to Princes Park near the seafront, next door to Eastbourne United's ground at The Oval. At the end of the season 1973/74, the club won promotion to the Premier Division of the Eastbourne & Hastings League.\n\nIn 1983 the club was elected as a founding member of Division 3 of the Sussex County League, minutely overshadowed by FA officials stating that the club was a \"parks team\" and not taking the club seriously. They relocated from the playing fields at Princes Park to their current home ground at Priory Lane, in the heart of the residential area of Langney.\n\nIn 1986/87 Langney Sports achieved a treble by claiming the Third Division title, the Division 3 League Cup and the Eastbourne Challenge Cup. The Sports followed this with a second successive promotion the next season to Division 1. In 1992, Langney reached the final of the Sussex Senior Challenge Cup, losing 0–1 to the reserve team of Sussex's only professional club, Brighton & Hove Albion. Langney regularly finished in the top four in Division One; the manager, Pete Cherry, left the club on mutual grounds having brought Langney Sports up from the Eastbourne and Hastings league into the county league; for two years Steve Richardson took the reins followed by Garry Wilson in 1999. In his first full season in 2000 they finished the season as Sussex County League Champions, and were promoted to the Eastern Division of the Southern League.\n\nAfter their first season in the Southern Football League Eastern Division, in which they finished 9th in the table, the club chairman, Len Smith, announced on 26 May 2001 that the club was to be renamed Eastbourne Borough to reflect the town the team played in. In their second season they finished seventh and secured their first Sussex Senior Cup title in front of a record crowd, beating Lewes after extra-time in the final. The following season resulted in promotion to the Premier Division with Borough finishing second, losing out on the title on goal difference to Dorchester Town. At the end of the season they staged a defence of their Sussex Senior Cup title against Crawley Town in the final of the competition, losing 6–5 on penalties. Though they only finished 11th in their first season in the Premier Division, as the league system was changed the club were qualified to be one of the founders of the newly formed Conference South for the start of the 2004–05 season. A further promotion was almost earned immediately as the club finished fifth, and won the Conference South play-offs, beating Cambridge City 3–0.\nHowever, they were beaten 2–1 by Altrincham (who had won the Conference North play-offs) in the play-off final at Stoke City's Britannia Stadium, and remained in the Conference South.\n\nThe next season they finished in the bottom half of the table in 17th place and in the 2006–07 season they just missed out in the play-offs finishing in 7th place. The 2007–08 season was one of Eastbourne Borough's most memorable. From the start of the season until 1 January 2008 they were unbeaten at the top of the league, until losing to local rivals Lewes in front of 3,027 fans at Priory Lane. At the end of the season Eastbourne finished 2nd with 80 points while Lewes won with 89 points.\n\nEastbourne beat Braintree Town 5–0 over two legs in the play-off semi-finals, before winning promotion to the Conference National on 8 May 2008 with a 2–0 win over Hampton & Richmond Borough in the Conference South Play-off final at Broadhall Way, Stevenage.\n\nAt the start of their 2008–09 campaign in the Conference they were struggling outside the relegation zone, however after a few loan players were brought in, including Dan Smith and Ashley Barnes from Plymouth Argyle, and the signing of Dan Brown from Cambridge United, Eastbourne managed to stay in the top half of the table after some surprising wins over full-time clubs such as Torquay United and York City, until the last day of the season, losing 0–2 to Barrow. They finished their first season in a comfortable 13th place with 60 points and a goal difference of −12. The season saw Eastbourne play 'live' for the first time at Priory Lane in front of national TV cameras, which broadcast their match against Stevenage, a match they won 2–1.\nEastbourne also completed the 2008–09 season by winning the Sussex Senior Cup beating Brighton & Hove Albion Reserves 1–0.\nThe 2009–10 season saw Eastbourne struggle from 'second season syndrome'. After a bright start, beating A.F.C. Wimbledon and eventual FA Trophy winners Barrow at Priory Lane, Eastbourne experienced a slump in form and found themselves in a relegation battle. However a strong run of form towards the tail of the season saw them stay up in dramatic fashion beating eventual Play-Off winners Oxford United 1–0 on the final day of the season, with a late penalty scored by Simon Weatherstone in the 84th minute.\n\nEastbourne were relegated back to the Conference South in 2010–11. Having beaten both Hayes and Yeading and Altrincham 5–0 at home early in the season, they found themselves as top scorers in the Conference National at one point. However, following a series of setbacks involving injuries to key players, they endured a run of 20 games without a win. The winless streak was put to an end with a 1–0 away win at Fleetwood Town courtesy of an audacious free-kick from the half-way line by Matt Smart. Despite regaining some form late in the season, Eastbourne were unable to recover and ended on 39 points, 8 points short of safety. Ironically, Eastbourne beat Altrincham on the final day of the season to sentence them to the drop.\n\nThe end of the 2010/11 season was marked with the first competitive game ever to be played at Brighton and Hove Albion's new Falmer Stadium, contested between Eastbourne and Brighton & Hove Albion Reserves in the Sussex Senior Cup Final. Eastbourne lost the game 2–0 with Gary Hart scoring the first goal at the new stadium.\n\nHalfway through the 2011–12 Conference South season, after a poor run of results, Eastbourne parted company with Garry Wilson and Head Coach Nick Greenwood. Both had been at the helm for 13 years and had taken the club from relative obscurity to the pinnacle of non-league football. Long-serving player Ben Austin was given a temporary player-manager role while the club looked a suitable replacement.\n\nEastbourne appointed Tommy Widdrington as their new manager on 1 February 2012. With the team lying 18th in the Conference South, chairman Len Smith outlined the aim to avoid relegation and rebuild for the 2012–13 season\n\nThe Sports secured their safety on the 41st and penultimate matchday, despite losing to a 3–0 scoreline away at Basingstoke Town. Results elsewhere meant their Conference South status was retained for the 2012–13 season. They finished the season in 18th place.\n\nWiddrington's arrival signaled a move towards a new look Eastbourne team, with the last few members of the 2007–08 promotion winning team leaving the club at the end of the season. Matt Crabb, Matt Smart and Ben Austin departed, leaving Darren Baker as the sole survivor of the team that won promotion at Stevenage in 2008.\n\nThe 2012–13 season was Widdrington's first full-season in charge and was a season of transition. In total 41 players pulled on a Borough shirt as the new manager tried to find the right mixture. Borough ended the season as the team having scored the fewest goals, but having one of the tightest defensive records, which contributed to their finishing the season in 12th place.\n\nIn the spring of 2013, Eastbourne were in talks with Kuwaiti European Holdings (KEH) over a potential take over of the club. Despite negotiations collapsing at the latter stages, Borough pressed on with their plans to develop the club, establishing an Academy which would act as a feeder to the first team. Following an 18-month rebuilding process, Borough had a strong start to the 2013–14 season accumulating 10 points from 4 matches, which earned Tommy Widdrington the August Manager of the Month award. Their early season form, however, faded and they experienced a dip in mid-season which saw them fall away from the top. Despite regaining some momentum after Christmas they were unable to recover and finished the season in 10th place on 58 points.\n\nDuring the early stages of the 2014–15 season, Len Smith, who had served as chairman of the club for more than 40 years, stood down from his position with Eastbourne sitting at the top of the fledgling Conference South table after 6 games. Halfway through the season, upon the news that the Football Conference would be allowing artificial pitches from the 2015–16 season, Eastbourne announced that they would convert to a 3G pitch by the 2015–16 or 2016–17 season At this point in time, the Football League still refused allowing 3G pitches and Eastbourne was among the first Conference-level clubs to announce plans to switch to the surface. Eastbourne finished the 2014–15 season in 11th place.\n\n2015–16 was Eastbourne’s 50th anniversary season. Although they could only secure a 17th-place finish in the league, they won the Sussex Senior Cup for the third time in their history at the end of the season.\n\nWiddrington resigned from his post in April 2017 to pursue an opportunity at Coventry City, leaving head coach Hugo Langton in charge for the last 5 games of the season.\n\nAt the end of the 2016–17 season, Eastbourne appointed Bognor Regis Town manager Jamie Howell to take over the vacant managerial position, who had two days previously lead Bognor back to the National League South.\n\nIn Howell‘s first full season at the club, Eastbourne registered an 18th place finish. The following season, Eastbourne started positively and found themselves in the play-off spots with 4 wins, 4 draws and just one defeat after their opening 9 games. However, their form dropped and Howell was sacked by the club on 16 February 2019 with Eastbourne in 15th place in the table.\n\nEastbourne appointed Mark McGhee to act as interim manager until the end season. Despite winning just once in their remaining 11 games - this coming as a shock 6-0 victory against play-off chasing Dartford - Borough managed to retain their National South status for another year.\n\nDuring the 2005/06 season, the club reached the first round of the FA Cup for the first time in the club's history, when a battling performance saw them hold League Two club Oxford United to a 1–1 draw at home, winger Ollie Rowland, holding his nerve to score a 90th-minute penalty.\n\nThis epic match gained the club three milestones. These were:\n\nThe East-Sussex side failed to win the replay at Oxford's Kassam Stadium on a cold mid-week November night. losing 3–0, the Eastbourne squad put up a very good fight and were extremely unlucky not to score. Ex-Yeovil Town striker Yemi Odubade played particularly well and caused many problems for the defence, so much so that manager Brian Talbot admitted he was very interested in having the talented youngster play for his side and asked the Eastbourne Borough committee if he could take Yemi Odubade on a trial at Oxford United. In January 2006, Oxford paid Sports £15,000 to sign Odubade on an 18-month contract, rising to £25,000 with appearances.\n\nAgain the club reached the FA Cup first round in the 2007/08 season and played Conference National side Weymouth. Borough lost 4 – 0 in front of a crowd of 2,711 supporters. They also lost to the same scoreline in the 2008/09 season away to Barrow in the 1st round replay.\n\nThe club reached the FA Cup first round again in the 2016/17 season and played Conference National side Braintree. Eastbourne crashed out of the competition by losing 7–0 to the Essex Club.\n\nEastbourne's club crest dates from the 1970s and the current version is its second incarnation. It represents a Martello tower, specifically the one at nearby Langney Point, with a cloud passing across it. The club had sought a crest that was identifiable with the local area and the initial choice was between two local landmarks: Langney Priory and the aforementioned Martello tower.\n\nThe club's colours have changed over time; originally they were maroon with an amber trim. However, since 1972 the club's colour has been red. Red has been combined with other colours over the years, including white and red, however in recent years the predominant combination has been red and black. The club have traditionally used various shades of blue for their away strip, but in recent years yellow has been used.\n\nBorough's main shirt sponsors have included 1st Class Windows, Town Flats & Town Property, Hailsham Roadway, Best Demolition and Interlink Express.<ref name=\"New Sponsors for Season 2015/16\"></ref>\n\nSince 1983, Eastbourne Borough have played their home games at Priory Lane, Langney, which has an official capacity of 4,151. Prior to this they had played on the playing fields at Princes Park. Many of the facilities on the Priory Lane site, including the clubhouse, were built largely by a handful of volunteers. Just two professionals, a carpet fitter and a plumber, were deployed for the construction of the clubhouse.\n\nIn 2006, Priory Lane hosted all three England fixtures of the Non League Four Nations Tournament. The ground also hosted the Sussex Senior Cup final from 2000–2010.\n\nEastbourne faced the possibility of losing their Priory Lane ground in 2007 due to a rent dispute with the local council. A petition was started to prevent this from occurring.\n\nBetween 1983 and 2016, the playing surface at Priory Lane was natural grass. Eastbourne announced that a FieldTurf surface would be installed over the summer of 2016.\n\nEastbourne's attendances rapidly rose during the club's rise through the divisions. While in 2001–02 season they attracted an average crowd of 382, the attendance figures peaked during the 2008–09 season at an average of 1,344.\n\nEastbourne Borough have a Supporter's Club which liaises with the club on behalf of the supporters, arranges match day travel and social events.\n\nEastbourne Borough have shared a rivalry with Lewes, Crawley Town and Whitehawk in recent years, which developed during the time spent sharing the same division with these clubs. The rivalry with Lewes drew large crowds during the 2007–08 season title race. They have a lesser rivalry with the other two local clubs; Eastbourne Town and Eastbourne United due to not having shared the same league with either of them for a considerable time. Eastbourne Borough previously shared a rivalry with Hastings United. Like the rivalry with the two other Eastbourne sides, the rivalry grew less over time.\n\nEastbourne's official mascot is Sammy Sunshine.\n\nEastbourne Borough has been a FA Chartered Standard Community club since 2002 and became a Community Interest Company (CIC) in July 2008. The club was the first senior football club in the country to have gained CIC status. A CIC operates as a limited company, yet must fulfill and abide by certain criteria which benefit the community, including an asset lock. Eastbourne Borough is a CIC limited by shares.\n\nNext to football coaching for all ages, the club provides a variety of services for the community, including study support, indoor bowls, archery and social events.\n\n\"As of 27 January 2020.\"\n\n\nEastbourne Borough have other teams which include:\n\nBelow is a list of Langney Sports (1983–2001) and Eastbourne Borough (2001–Present) managers since 1983.\n\n\"Stats as of 22 February 2020. League matches only.\"\nAchievements before 2001 were under the Langney Sports F.C. name. After 2001 under the Eastbourne Borough F.C. name.\n\nPremier Division Champions: (1) 1981/82\n\nDivision 1 Champions: (1) 1999/00<br>\nDivision 2 Champions: (1) 1987/88<br>\nDivision 3 Champions: (1) 1986/87\n\nEastern Division Runners Up: (1) 2002/03\n\nPlay-off Winners: (2) 2004/05, 2007/08\n\nPlay-off Finalists: (1) 2004/05\n\nWinners: (1) 1986/87\n\nWinners: (1) 1989/90\n\nFinalists: (1) 1997/98\n\nWinners: (3) 2002, 2009, 2016\n\nWinners: (3) 2001/02, 2008/09, 2015/16\n<br>\nFinalists: (3) 1991/92, 2002/03, 2010/11\n\n\nDarren Baker, 952 (1992–2013)\nScott Ramsay, 135 (2002–2008)<ref name=\"Management and Squad 2007/08\"></ref>\nScott Ramsay, 38 (2002–03)\nScott Ramsay, 30 (2002–03)\nJames Walker for Antigua and Barbuda, September 2012.\n\n£25,000 for Yemi Odubade, Oxford United, 2006\n3,770 V Oxford United, FA Cup R1, 5 November 2005\n3,108 V AFC Wimbledon, 11 August 2009\n11–1 v Crowborough, Sussex Senior Cup Quarter-final, 13 January 2009.\n0–8 v Sheppey United, FA Vase Preliminary Round, 2 October 1993.\nConference National: 13th, 2008/09\nFourth Round: 2007/08\nFirst Round: 2005/06, 2007/08, 2008/09, 2016/17\nThird Round: 2001/02, 2002/03, 2004/05, 2010/11\nSecond Round: 1990/91, 1991/92, 1997/98\n\n"}
{"id": "2091811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091811", "title": "Thorley Walters", "text": "Thorley Walters\n\nThorley Swinstead Walters (12 May 1913 – 6 July 1991) was an English character actor. He is probably best remembered for his comedy film roles such as in \"Two-Way Stretch\" and \"Carlton-Browne of the FO\".\n\nWalters was born in Teigngrace, Devon, the son of Prebendary Thomas Collins Walters of Silverton, Devon and his wife Mary née Swinstead. He was educated at Monkton Combe School, Somerset.\n\nWalter appeared in the West End in the 1942 naval play \"Escort\" by Patrick Hastings.\n\nHe featured in three of the St Trinian's films, starting as an army major in \"Blue Murder at St Trinian's\". He later appeared as Butters, assistant to Education Ministry senior civil servant Culpepper-Brown (Eric Barker) in \"The Pure Hell of St Trinian's\" and played the part of Culpepper-Brown in \"The Wildcats of St Trinian's\".\n\nFrom the 1960s onwards he also appeared in several Hammer horror films, including \"The Phantom of the Opera\" (1962), \"\" (1966), \"Frankenstein Created Woman\" (1967), \"Frankenstein Must Be Destroyed\" (1969) and \"Vampire Circus\" (1972). He was a close friend of Hammer's most important director Terence Fisher.\n\nWalters played Sherlock Holmes's sidekick Doctor Watson in four unrelated films: \"Sherlock Holmes and the Deadly Necklace\" (1962), \"The Best House in London\" (1969), \"The Adventure of Sherlock Holmes' Smarter Brother\" (1975) and \"Silver Blaze\" (1977).\n\nWalters' television appearances included the Granada series \"Crown Court\", both as a judge and as a barrister. He also appeared as a barrister in the BBC Series \"A P Herbert's Misleading Cases\" starring Roy Dotrice as Albert Haddock. Mr. Walters was usually the opposing barrister to Albert Haddock; \"The Lotus Eaters\" and \"Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy\". Walters was considered for the role of Captain Mainwaring in \"Dad's Army\", before the part was assigned to Arthur Lowe – Walters was offered the role by producer David Croft but turned it down. In 1974 he played the Prince of Wales in the TV drama \"Jennie - Lady Randolph Churchill\".\n\nIn the DVD commentary to \"The Man Who Haunted Himself\", actor Roger Moore mentioned that co-star Walters lived in Dolphin Square in Pimlico, London in which some scenes of the film were shot.\n\nWalters and Richard Hope-Hawkins visited the ailing Terry-Thomas in Barnes, London in 1989. Walters had starred with Thomas in the Boulting Brothers' film \"Carlton-Browne of the F.O.\" and was shocked at his appearance (he was ill with Parkinson's disease). That visit resulted in the Terry-Thomas Gala held in the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane in the same year which raised funds to help Thomas live the rest of his life in comfort.\n\nHope-Hawkins was with Walters and actress Siobhan Redmond when he died in a London nursing home. Actor Ian Bannen gave the main address at his funeral held at Golders Green.\n"}
{"id": "2091812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091812", "title": "Watson Brake", "text": "Watson Brake\n\nWatson Brake is an archaeological site in present-day Ouachita Parish, Louisiana, from the Archaic period. Dated to about 5400 years ago (approx. 3500 BCE), Watson Brake is considered the oldest earthwork mound complex in North America. It is older than the Egyptian pyramids or England’s Stonehenge. Its discovery and dating in a paper published in 1997 changed the ideas of American archaeologists about ancient cultures in the Southeast and their ability to manage large, complex projects over centuries. The archeologists revised their date of the oldest earthwork construction by nearly 2000 years, as well as having to recognize that it was developed over centuries by a hunter-gatherer society, rather than by what was known to be more common of other, later mound sites: a more sedentary society dependent on maize cultivation and with a hierarchical, centralized polity. \n\nThe arrangement of human-made mounds at Watson Brake was constructed over centuries by members of a hunter-gatherer society. It is located near Watson Bayou in the floodplain of the Ouachita River, near present-day Monroe in northern Louisiana, United States. Watson Brake consists of an oval formation of eleven earthwork mounds from three to in height, connected by ridges to form an oval nearly across.\n\nWatson Brake is dated to 1,900 years before the better-known Poverty Point in northern Louisiana; begun about 1500 BCE, it was previously thought to be the earliest mound site in North America. Mound building in the Americas started at an early date.\n\nThe discovery and dating of Watson Brake as a Middle Archaic site demonstrate that the pre-agricultural, pre-ceramic, indigenous cultures within the territory of the present-day United States were much more complex than previously thought. While primarily hunter-gatherers, they planned and organized large work forces over centuries to accomplish the complex mound and ridge constructions. Monumental constructions have marked the rise of social complexity worldwide. The earthen mounds of Eastern North America are linked to mankind's monument tradition.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Reca Bamburg Jones, a local resident, brought this site to the attention of professional archaeologists. By 1981, after logging had revealed more of the site, Jones identified the pattern of eleven mounds connected by ridges, a complex that was 280 yards across. In 1983, Jones and John Belmont published the site in a survey of pre-history in the Ouachita River Valley. Around this time Joe W. Saunders, then regional archaeologist for the state, was shown the site.\n\nThe site had been privately controlled since the 1950s. Approximately half the site is still owned by several family members, who have allowed archaeological excavations and associated work, but do not permit public viewing. Recognizing the site's significance, in 1996 The Archaeological Conservancy purchased half the site and later sold it to the state for preservation.\n\nSince the 1990s, radiocarbon dating by a team from Northeast Louisiana University established the great antiquity of the site. The team of Joe W. Saunders \"et al\". published a paper in \"Science\" in 1997 that established the age of the mound complex.\n\nThe analysis of 27 radiocarbon dates indicates that the site was initially occupied around 4000 BCE during the Middle Archaic period. Mound construction began at approximately 3500 BCE, and continued for approximately 500 years. During that time period, the mounds were enlarged in several stages. Excavations indicate that there was sufficient time between building episodes for midden deposits of residents to accumulate on top of the mounds and ridges. In addition, teams from the University of Texas at Austin and the University of Washington dated the site by using sand grains and organic acids in the soils.\n\nEvidence of the middens indicate that Watson Brake may have been used as a \"base by mobile hunter-gatherers from summer through fall.\" Saunders and his team suggest that the building episodes at Watson Brake coincide with periods of unpredictable rainfall caused by El Niño-Southern Oscillation events. They may represent \"a communal response to new stresses of droughts and flooding that created a suddenly more unpredictable food base.\" Midden remains showed the population relied on fish, shellfish, and riverine animals, supplemented by local annuals: goosefoot (\"Chenopodium berlandieri\"), knotweed (\"Polygonum spp.\"), and possibly marshelder (\"Iva annua\"). Over time, the people consumed more terrestrial animals, such as deer, turkey, raccoon, opossum, squirrel, and rabbits, which was likely related to changing habitat and waterway conditions. The site appears to have been abandoned around 2800 BCE. This may have been caused by a \"decline in the main channel, gravel/sand shoal habitats, backwater swamps, and small-stream habitats\" near the site.\n\nTogether with other Middle Archaic sites in Louisiana and Florida, Watson Brake shows the development of complex societies among hunter-gatherer peoples. They occupied the site only on a seasonal basis, but were capable of planning and organizing complex monumental construction over a period of several hundred years.\n\nIn contrast to Poverty Point, where residents made projectile points with materials traded from distant locations, including Wisconsin and Tennessee, the artifacts of Watson Brake show local materials and production. The projectile points are Middle to Late Archaic in age, and were produced more casually than those at Poverty Point. The people heated local gravel for cooking stones to steam some of their food. They created and fired earthenware items in a variety of shapes, but researchers have not yet determined their functions.\n\nEight members of the Gentry family have owned most of the site since the 1950s. One member declines to sell property to the state, so the site is not available for public viewing. The family have granted specific permission to individual archaeologists to conduct research on site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091820", "title": "Proto-Uralic", "text": "Proto-Uralic\n\nProto-Uralic is the reconstructed language ancestral to the Uralic language family. The language was originally spoken in a small area in about 7000–2000 BCE (estimates vary), and expanded to give differentiated protolanguages. The location of the area or Urheimat is not known, and various strongly differing proposals have been advocated, but likewise the vicinity of the Ural Mountains is generally assumed.\n\nAccording to the traditional binary tree model, Proto-Uralic diverged into Proto-Samoyedic and Proto-Finno-Ugric. However, reconstructed Proto-Finno-Ugric differs little from Proto-Uralic, and many apparent differences follow from the methods used. Thus Proto-Finno-Ugric may not be separate from Proto-Uralic. Another reconstruction of the split of Proto-Uralic has three branches (Finno-Permic, Ugric and Samoyedic) from the start.\n\nIn the early 21st century, these tree-like models have been challenged by the hypothesis of larger number of proto-languages giving an image of a linguistic \"comb\" rather than a tree. Thus, the second-order groups of the Uralic phylum would then be: Sami, Finnic, Mordvinic, Mari, Permic, Hungarian, Mansi, Khanty and Samoyedic, all on equal footing. This order is both the order of geographical positions as well as linguistic similarity, with neighboring languages being more similar than distant ones.\n\nA minority view considers that many features ascribed to descent from Proto-Uralic may have rather come about by convergence among originally different languages. Most scholars have rejected this model.\n\nAnother way to describe this phenomenon in terminology would be called an \"Allo-genetic\" language group. This was first coined and identified by Georgian-German linguist G. W. Tsereteli in his 1970 book \"\"Zur Frage der Beziehung zwischen den semitischen und hamitischen Sprachen\"\" while studying the Afro-Asiatic languages; to which Tsereteli suggested that the Afro-Asiatic phylum may be more of a comb and/or series of proto-languages rather than a genetic tree. In other words, according to Tsereteli's theory - just like Afro-Asiatic - one could probably surmise that Uralic may exhibit the same phenomenon and may not be a genetic language group at all but is actually an Allo-genetic language group. If G. W. Tsereteli is correct with this linguistic hypothesis; it may be possible that there was never any such thing as a Proto-Uralic language at all, for maybe Proto-Uralic actually formed out of a smaller onomastic pool (or \"Sprachbund\") rather than a larger one, and there was actually no \"real\" phylum.\n\nSimilarly to the situation for Proto-Indo-European, reconstructions of Proto-Uralic are traditionally not written in IPA but in UPA.\n\nProto-Uralic had vowel harmony and a rather large inventory of vowels in initial syllables, much like the modern Finnish or Estonian system:\n\nSometimes a mid vowel *\"ë\" is reconstructed in place of *\"ï\", or a low back rounded *\"å\" in place of *\"a\".\n\nThere were no monophonemic long vowels nor diphthongs, though sequences of vowel and semivowel within a single syllable (such as *äj) could exist.\n\nVowel inventory in non-initial syllables was restricted: only a two-way contrast of open and non-open vowels is incontestably reconstructible. The actual realization of this contrast is a question of debate: one view considers this two archiphonemic vowels and , realized as four allophones , as per vowel harmony.\n\nFor the non-open vowel(s), most branches reflect a reduced vowel ; only two branches give evidence for a specific value:\n\nWhile vowel reduction is a common sound change, Finnic is known to have adstrate influence from language groups that would not have known reduced vowels (namely the Baltic languages and the early Germanic languages), so a value of already in Proto-Uralic remains a possibility.\n\nAlthough these three or four stem types were certainly the most prominent ones in Proto-Uralic, it is possible that other, rarer types may have existed as well. These include for example kinship terms such as \"sister-in-law\", found as *kälü in both Proto-Finnic and Proto-Samoyedic. Janhunen (1981) and Sammallahti (1988) reconstruct here instead a word-final labial glide: *käliw.\n\nA general difficulty in reconstructing unstressed vowels for Proto-Uralic lies in their heavy reduction and loss in many of the Uralic languages. Especially in the Ugric and Permic languages, almost no trace of unstressed vowels appears in basic word roots. The original bisyllabic root structure has been well preserved in only the more peripheral groups: Samic and Finnic in the northwest, Samoyedic in the east. The main correspondences of unstressed vowels between these are as follows:\n\nDevelopments in Mordvinic and Mari are rather more complicated. In the former, Proto-Uralic *-a and *-ä are usually reduced to *-ə; *-a is however regularly retained whenever the first syllable of the word contained *u. Proto-Uralic *-ə is regularly lost after open syllables, as well as in some other positions.\n\nA number of roots appear to diverge from the main picture of unstressed syllables in a different way: while Finnic, Samic and Samoyedic languages all have one of the \"typical\" stem shapes, they may not quite match. Words in these classes often feature discrepancies in the vowels of the first syllable as well, e.g. Finnic *a or *oo (suggesting Proto-Uralic *a or *ë) against Samic *ā (suggesting Proto-Uralic *ä) or *oa (suggesting Proto-Uralic *o).\n\nA number of such cases may result simply from conditional vowel shifts in unstressed syllables. In fact, multiple vowel shifts are reconstructed in branches of Uralic sensitive to a particular combination of stem vowel and following reduced vowel, in which both change at once. A shift *a-ə > *o-a can be posited for Samic as well as the Mordvinic languages. E.g.:\n\nThe change is, however, masked by the shift of *ë to *a (which later develops to Proto-Samic *uo) in words such as:\n\nIn a second group, a change *ä-ä > *a-e appears to have taken place in Finnic in words such as:\nIn the consonant system, palatalization, or palatal-laminal instead of apical articulation, was a phonemic feature, as it is in many modern Uralic languages. Only one series of stops (unvoiced unaspirated) existed:\n\nThe phonetic nature of the segment symbolized by *x is uncertain, though it is usually considered a back consonant; , , , and have been suggested among others. Janhunen (1981, 2007) takes no explicit stance, leaving open the option for even a vocalic value. The segment has some similarity to the Indo-European laryngeals (to which it can correspond in loanwords): it is reconstructed by certain scholars in syllable-final position in word-stems where a contrastive long vowel later developed (similar to Turkish ğ), best preserved in the Finnic languages, and where Samoyedic features a vowel sequence such as *åə. The correlation between these two stem classes is however not perfect, and alternate possibilities exist for explaining both vowel length in Finnic and vowel sequences in Samoyedic. *x is also reconstructed word-medially, and in this position it also develops to a Finnic long vowel, but has clear consonantal reflexes elsewhere: *k in Samic, *j in Mordvinic and *ɣ in Ugric. If a consonant, it probably derives from lenition of *k at a pre-Uralic stage; it is only found in words ending in a non-open vowel, while *k is infrequent or nonexistent in similar positions.\n\nThe phonetical identity of the consonant is also subject to some doubt. It is traditionally analyzed as the palatalized counterpart of the voiced dental fricative , that is, as ; however, this a typologically rare sound value for which no direct evidence is found in any Uralic language, and a pure palatal fricative is another option; a third option is a palatal liquid like, e. g., Czech \"ř\". Some others propose to adjust the sound values of both this consonant and its plain counterpart. Ugricist László Honti has advanced a reconstruction with lateral fricatives: , for , while Frederik Kortlandt reconstructs palatalized and , alleging that they pattern like resonants.\n\nThe phonemes in parentheses—*ć, *š, *ĺ—are supported by only limited evidence, and are not assumed by all scholars. Sammallahti (1988) notes that while instances of *ć are found in all three of Permic, Hungarian and Ob-Ugric, there are \"very few satisfactory etymologies\" showing any correlation between the branches in whether *ć or *ś appears. In the other languages, no consistent distinction between these consonants is found. The evidence for the postalveolar sibilant *š however is \"scarce but probably conclusive\" (ibid): it is treated distinctly from *s only in the more western (Finno-Permic) languages, but certain loans from as far back as the Proto-Indo-European language have reflexes traceable to a postalveolar fricative (including *piši- or *peši- \"to cook\"). The possibility of *ĺ is not considered by him at all. In contrast, Janhunen, who considers Samoyedic evidence necessary for conclusions about Proto-Uralic, doubts that *š can be reconstructed, preferring to consider it a secondary, post-Proto-Uralic innovation (p. 210). He agrees with Sammallahti in omitting *ĺ and in only considering a single palatal obstruent as necessary to reconstruct; for the latter he suggests the sound value of a palatal stop, (p. 211).\n\nNo initial or final consonant clusters were allowed, so words could begin and end with a maximum of one consonant only. The single consonants also could not occur word-initially, though at least for the first of these, this may be an coincidental omission in the data. A reconstruction \"spleen\" exists but is not found in Samoyedic and the most stringent criteria for a Proto-Uralic root thus exclude it. A similar case is \"fox\", a loanword from Indo-Iranian.\n\nInside word roots, only clusters of two consonants were permitted. Since \"*j\" and \"*w\" were consonants even between a vowel and another consonant, there were no sequences of a \"diphthong\" followed by two consonants, like in e.g. Finnish \"veitsi\". While voicing was not a phonemic feature, double (i.e. geminate) stops probably existed ( \"father-in-law\", \"five\", \"to push\"). The singleton–geminate contrast in most descendant languages developed into a voiced–voiceless distinction, although Finnic is a notable exception, e.g. Finnish \"appi\", \"lykkää\".\n\nWhen, due to suffixation, consonant clusters arose that were not permitted, the non-low vowel was inserted as a prop vowel. This process was obscured in the Finnic languages by an opposing process which syncopated unstressed \"*e\" in many cases.\n\nProto-Uralic did not have tones, which contrasts with Yeniseian and some Siberian languages. Neither was there contrastive stress as in Indo-European; in Proto-Uralic the first syllable was invariably stressed.\n\nConsonant gradation may have occurred already in Proto-Uralic: if it did, it was probably a phonetical alternation involving allophonic voicing of the stop consonants: [p] ~ [b], [t] ~ [d], [k] ~ [g].\n\nGrammatically Proto-Uralic was an agglutinative nominative–accusative language.\n\nProto-Uralic nouns are reconstructed with at least six noun cases and three numbers, singular, dual and plural. Grammatical gender was not recognized and no Uralic language does so even today. Noun articles were unknown.\n\nThe plural marker of nouns was *\"-t\" in final position and *\"-j-\" in non-final position, as seen in Finnish \"talot\" and \"talojen\" (\"house\" nom. pl. and gen. pl.). The dual marker has been reconstructed as *\"-k-\", but the dual number has been lost in many of the contemporary Uralic languages.\n\nThe cases were:\n\nThe cases had only one three-way locative contrast of entering, residing and exiting (lative, locative and ablative respectively). This is the origin of the three-way systems as the three different ones in Karelian Finnish (illative/inessive/elative, allative/adessive/ablative, translative/essive/excessive). The partitive case, developed from the ablative, was a later innovation in the Finnic and Samic languages. Further cases are occasionally mentioned, e.g. Robert Austerlitz's reconstruction of Proto-Finno-Ugric includes a seventh, adverbial.\n\nA further noun case likely already found in Proto-Uralic is the translative *-ksi. The abessive *-ktak / *-ktäk is not completely certain as it could also have been a derivational category rather than a noun case. So as many as seven or eight noun cases can be reconstructed for Proto-Uralic with high plausibility.\n\nThe nouns also had possessive suffixes, one for each combination of number and person. These took the place of possessive pronouns, which did not exist.\n\nVerbs were conjugated at least according to number, person and tense. The reconstructions of mood markers are controversial. Some scholars argue that there were separate subjective and objective conjugations, but this is disputed; clear reflexes of the objective conjugation are found in only the easternmost branches, and hence it may also represent an areal innovation. Negation was expressed with the means of a negative verb \"*e-\", found as such in e.g. Finnish \"e+mme\" \"we don't\".\n\nMerlijn De Smit of Stockholm University has argued for ergativity in Proto-Uralic, reinterpreting the accusative case as a lative one and arguing for a marked subject via the genitive case and a verbal ending, *mV-. Support for this theory comes from the Finnish agent participle constructions, e.g. \"miehen ajama auto\" — car driven by the man, \"Naisen leipoma kakku\" — the cake that woman baked. In these constructions the subject, which is usually unmarked, is in the genitive case, while the direct object, usually marked with -n is unmarked.\n\nThis resembles a passive construction such as \"pater amatur a filio\", \"filio\" being declined in the ablative case, except that the word order in Finnish is reversed.\n\nThis construction also occurs in Udmurt, Mari, Mordvinic (the \"-mV\" participle is absent), and Karelian. However, unlike Finnish, the construction is also used with intransitive sentences, characterized by the same -mV suffix on the verb, e.g. Udmurt \"gyrem busy\", \"a ploughed field, a field that has been ploughed\", \"lyktem kišnomurt\", \"the arrived lady, the lady who has arrived\". The \"-mV\" participle ending in Mari denotes a preterite passive meaning, e.g. in Eastern Mari \"omtam počmo\", \"the door (has been) opened\", \"təj kaləkən mondəmo ulat\", \"you are forgotten by the people\", and \"memnan tolmo korno\", \"the road that we have come\".\n\nThis is problematic for the ergative theory because the \"-mV\" participle, labelled the \"ergative\" marker, is a passive marker in most of the languages that use it, and the Finnish agent participle constructions may in fact derive from similar constructions in Baltic languages, e.g. Lithuanian \"tėvo perkamas automobilis\" or \"automobilis (yra) tėvo perkamas\". Notable is the unmistakable resemblance between the Baltic and Finnic verbal suffixes, and the fact that \"-mV\" is missing in both Estonian and Mordvinic, despite being two very close relatives of Finnish. However, the Baltic participle in \"-ma\" does not represent the most common Indo-European ending of a passive participle, even though it does have parallels in other Indo-European languages. Even if the ending derives from Proto-Uralic and not the Baltic languages, the transition from a passive to ergative construction is very common and has been observed in Indo-Aryan, Salish, and Polynesian. The transition begins when the unmarked subject of the passive sentence, usually marked in active sentences (if the language is inflectional), is re-analyzed as an unmarked absolutive, and the marked agent as ergative.\n\nOnly some 200 word roots can be reconstructed for Proto-Uralic, if it is required that every word reconstructed for the proto-language should be present in Samoyedic languages (related to the hypothesis that Samoyedic was the first group to split off: see discussion at Finno-Ugric languages). With a laxer criterion of reconstructing words which are attested in most branches of the language family, a number in the range of 300–400 roots can be reached.\n\nThe following examples of reconstructed items are considered to fulfill the strictest criteria and are thus accepted as Proto-Uralic words by practically all scholars in the field:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA reconstruction of a word *\"wäśkä\", meaning 'reddish metal' (copper, bronze or iron), has also been proposed. However, this word shows irregularities in sound correspondence, and some scholars believe it to be a Wanderwort instead.\n\nThe reconstructed vocabulary is compatible with a Mesolithic culture (bow, arrow, needle, sinew, but also rope, fence, cradle, ski), a north Eurasian landscape (spruce, birch, Siberian pine), and contains interesting hints on kinship structure.\n\nExamples of vocabulary correspondences between the modern Uralic languages are provided in the at the Finnish Wikipedia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091823", "title": "Stiff equation", "text": "Stiff equation\n\nIn mathematics, a stiff equation is a differential equation for which certain numerical methods for solving the equation are numerically unstable, unless the step size is taken to be extremely small. It has proven difficult to formulate a precise definition of stiffness, but the main idea is that the equation includes some terms that can lead to rapid variation in the solution.\n\nWhen integrating a differential equation numerically, one would expect the requisite step size to be relatively small in a region where the solution curve displays much variation and to be relatively large where the solution curve straightens out to approach a line with slope nearly zero. For some problems this is not the case. In order for a numerical method to give a reliable solution to the differential system sometimes the step size is required to be at an unacceptably small level in a region where the solution curve is very smooth. The phenomenon is known as \"stiffness\". In some cases there may be two different problems with the same solution, yet one is not stiff and the other is. The phenomenon cannot therefore be a property of the exact solution, since this is the same for both problems, and must be a property of the differential system itself. Such systems are thus known as \"stiff systems\".\n\nConsider the initial value problem\n\nThe exact solution (shown in cyan) is\nWe seek a numerical solution that exhibits the same behavior.\n\nThe figure (right) illustrates the numerical issues for various numerical integrators applied on the equation.\n\nOne of the most prominent examples of the stiff Ordinary differential equations (ODEs) is a system that describes the chemical reaction of Robertson:\n\nIf one treats this system on a short interval, for example, formula_1 there is no problem in numerical integration. However, if the interval is very large (10 say), then many standard codes fail to integrate it correctly.\n\nAdditional examples are the sets of ODEs resulting from the temporal integration of large chemical reaction mechanisms. Here, the stiffness arises from the coexistence of very slow and very fast reactions. To solve them, the software packages KPP and Autochem can be used.\n\nConsider the linear constant coefficient inhomogeneous system\n\nwhere formula_2 and formula_3 is a constant, diagonalizable, formula_4 matrix with eigenvalues formula_5 (assumed distinct) and corresponding eigenvectors formula_6. The general solution of () takes the form\n\nwhere the κ are arbitrary constants and formula_7 is a particular integral. Now let us suppose that\n\nwhich implies that each of the terms\nInterpreting \"x\" to be time (as it often is in physical problems), formula_14 is called the \"transient solution\" and formula_7 the \"steady-state solution\".\nIf formula_16 is large, then the corresponding\nterm formula_17 will decay quickly as\n\"x\" increases and is thus called a \"fast transient\"; if\nformula_18 is small, the corresponding term\nformula_17 decays slowly and is\ncalled a \"slow transient\". Let formula_20 be defined by\n\nso that formula_21 is the fastest\ntransient and formula_22 the\nslowest. We now define the \"stiffness ratio\" as\n\nIn this section we consider various aspects of the phenomenon of stiffness. \"Phenomenon\" is probably a more appropriate word than \"property\", since the latter rather implies that stiffness can be defined in precise mathematical terms; it turns out not to be possible to do this in a satisfactory manner, even for the restricted class of linear constant coefficient systems. We shall also see several qualitative statements that can be (and mostly have been) made in an attempt to encapsulate the notion of stiffness, and state what is probably the most satisfactory of these as a \"definition\" of stiffness.\n\nJ. D. Lambert defines stiffness as follows:\n\nThere are other characteristics which are exhibited by many examples of stiff problems, but for each there are counterexamples, so these characteristics do not make good definitions of stiffness. Nonetheless, definitions based upon these characteristics are in common use by some authors and are good clues as to the presence of stiffness. Lambert refers to these as \"statements\" rather than definitions, for the aforementioned reasons. A few of these are:\n\nThe origin of the term \"stiffness\" has not been clearly established. According to Joseph Oakland Hirschfelder, the term \"stiff\" is used because such systems correspond to tight coupling between the driver and driven in servomechanisms.\nAccording to Richard. L. Burden and J. Douglas Faires,\n\nProblems involving rapidly decaying transient solutions occur naturally in a wide variety of applications, including the study of spring and damping systems, the analysis of control systems, and problems in chemical kinetics. These are all examples of a class of problems called stiff (mathematical stiffness) systems of differential equations, due to their application in analyzing the motion of spring and mass systems having large spring constants (physical stiffness). \nFor example, the initial value problem\n\nwith \"m\" = 1, \"c\" = 1001, \"k\" = 1000, can be written in the form () with \"n\" = 2 and\n\nand has eigenvalues\nformula_23. Both eigenvalues have negative real part and the stiffness ratio is\n\nwhich is fairly large. System () then certainly satisfies statements 1 and 3. Here the spring constant \"k\" is large and the damping constant \"c\" is even larger. (Note that \"large\" is a vague, subjective term, but the larger the above quantities are, the more pronounced will be the effect of stiffness.)\nThe exact solution to () is\n\nNote that () behaves quite nearly as a simple exponential \"x\"\"e\", but the presence of the \"e\" term, even with a small coefficient is enough to make the numerical computation very sensitive to step size. Stable integration of () requires a very small step size until well into the smooth part of the solution curve, resulting in an error much smaller than required for accuracy. Thus the system also satisfies statement 2 and Lambert's definition.\n\nThe behaviour of numerical methods on stiff problems can be analyzed by applying these methods to the test equation subject to the initial condition with formula_24. The solution of this equation is . This solution approaches zero as formula_25 when formula_26 If the numerical method also exhibits this behaviour (for a fixed step size), then the method is said to be A-stable. (Note that a numerical method that is L-stable (see below) has the stronger property that the solution approaches zero in a single step as the step size goes to infinity.) A-stable methods do not exhibit the instability problems as described in the motivating example.\n\nRunge–Kutta methods applied to the test equation formula_27 take the form formula_28, and, by induction, formula_29. The function formula_30 is called the \"stability function\". Thus, the condition that formula_31 as formula_32 is equivalent to formula_33. This motivates the definition of the \"region of absolute stability\" (sometimes referred to simply as \"stability region\"), which is the set formula_34. The method is A-stable if the region of absolute stability contains the set formula_35, that is, the left half plane.\n\nConsider the Euler methods above. The explicit Euler method applied to the test equation formula_27 is\nHence, formula_38 with formula_39. The region of absolute stability for this method is thus formula_40 which is the disk depicted on the right. The Euler method is not A-stable.\n\nThe motivating example had formula_41. The value of \"z\" when taking step size formula_42 is formula_43, which is outside the stability region. Indeed, the numerical results do not converge to zero. However, with step size formula_44, we have formula_45 which is just inside the stability region and the numerical results converge to zero, albeit rather slowly.\n\nConsider the trapezoidal method\nwhen applied to the test equation formula_27, is\nSolving for formula_49 yields\nThus, the stability function is\nand the region of absolute stability is\nThis region contains the left-half plane, so the trapezoidal method is A-stable. In fact, the stability region is identical to the left-half plane, and thus the numerical solution of formula_27 converges to zero if \"and only if\" the exact solution does. Nevertheless, the trapezoidal method does not have perfect behavior: it does damp all decaying components, but rapidly decaying components are damped only very mildly, because formula_54 as formula_55. This led to the concept of L-stability: a method is L-stable if it is A-stable and formula_56 as formula_57. The trapezoidal method is A-stable but not L-stable. The implicit Euler method is an example of an L-stable method.\n\nThe stability function of a Runge–Kutta method with coefficients formula_58 and formula_59 is given by\nwhere formula_61 denotes the vector with ones. This is a rational function (one polynomial divided by another).\n\nExplicit Runge–Kutta methods have a strictly lower triangular coefficient matrix formula_58 and thus, their stability function is a polynomial. It follows that explicit Runge–Kutta methods cannot be A-stable.\n\nThe stability function of implicit Runge–Kutta methods is often analyzed using order stars. The order star for a method with stability function formula_30 is defined to be the set formula_64. A method is A-stable if and only if its stability function has no poles in the left-hand plane and its order star contains no purely imaginary numbers.\n\nLinear multistep methods have the form\nApplied to the test equation, they become\nwhich can be simplified to\nwhere \"z\" = \"hk\". This is a linear recurrence relation. The method is A-stable if all solutions {\"y\"} of the recurrence relation converge to zero when Re \"z\" < 0. The characteristic polynomial is\nAll solutions converge to zero for a given value of \"z\" if all solutions \"w\" of Φ(\"z\",\"w\") = 0 lie in the unit circle.\n\nThe region of absolute stability for a multistep method of the above form is then the set of all formula_69 for which all \"w\" such that Φ(\"z\",\"w\") = 0 satisfy |\"w\"| < 1. Again, if this set contains the left-half plane, the multi-step method is said to be A-stable.\n\nLet us determine the region of absolute stability for the two-step Adams–Bashforth method\nThe characteristic polynomial is\nwhich has roots\nthus the region of absolute stability is\nThis region is shown on the right. It does not include all the left half-plane (in fact it only includes the real axis between \"z\" = −1 and \"z\" = 0) so the Adams–Bashforth method is not A-stable.\n\nExplicit multistep methods can never be A-stable, just like explicit Runge–Kutta methods. Implicit multistep methods can only be A-stable if their order is at most 2. The latter result is known as the second Dahlquist barrier; it restricts the usefulness of linear multistep methods for stiff equations. An example of a second-order A-stable method is the trapezoidal rule mentioned above, which can also be considered as a linear multistep method.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091831", "title": "Guilden Morden", "text": "Guilden Morden\n\nGuilden Morden, England, is a village and parish located in Cambridgeshire about south west of Cambridge and west of Royston in Hertfordshire. It is served by the main line Ashwell and Morden railway station to the south in the neighbouring parish of Steeple Morden.\n\nThe parish is combined with the parishes of Abington Pigotts, Guilden Morden and Tadlow to form \"The Mordens\" ward, which is represented on South Cambridgeshire District Council by one councillor.\n\nThe parish of Guilden Morden is long and thin in shape covering an area of in the very south-western corner of Cambridgeshire. The parish's long western border largely follows the course of the River Cam from the point where it rises at Ruddery Spring, and which separates it from Hertfordshire and Bedfordshire. At its southern tip the parish meets the ancient Icknield Way (now the A505). Most of its long eastern border follows a stream that divides it from neighbouring Steeple Morden, and reaches its short northern border with Tadlow at Tadlow Bridge.\n\nThe area has been occupied for at least 2000 years and probably much longer; an axehead dating from 6000 BC has been found in the parish. A significant cemetery dating from Roman times has also been found in the south of the parish, containing at least 180 burials and indicating an important nearby settlement. The Guilden Morden boar, an Anglo-Saxon copper alloy figure of a boar that may have once served as the crest of a helmet, was found around 1864 or 1865 in a grave. The Saxon village was probably built after that of its neighbour Steeple Morden from which it has been separate since at least the Norman Conquest.\n\nThe hamlet of Odsey on the Baldock to Royston road was formerly home to a Cistercian grange. A hamlet named Redreth was listed until the 14th century, probably south of the village and perhaps deserted as a result of the Black Death.\n\nThe name is derived from the Old English \"Gylden More Dun\", meaning \"Golden\" (rich or productive) \"Moor Hill\".\n\nThe manor here belonged for several centuries to the Hasilden family. Thomas Hasilden (c.1322-1401) had a Royal grant of free warren in his manors of Steeple and Guilden Morden in 1374. He was then resident at Morden Hall, an ancient mansion. He was Comptroller of the household of John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster, and was retained for life to served him in peace or in war. He also held the manor of Soham in Cambridgeshire from the Duke as superior. In July 1381 he was commanded to meet the Duke at Berwick-upon-Tweed with seventy men-at-arms and sixty lances from his estates. He was a Knight of the Shire for Cambridgeshire in 1384 and also served in four other Parliaments. The manor continued in this family until Francis Hasilden, High Sheriff of Cambridgeshire and Huntingdonshire in 1509 (died early in 1522) settled his estates on his only child Frances who conveyed them by her marriage to Sir Robert Peyton, knt., of Iselham.\n\nThe parish church of Guilden Morden has been dedicated to St Mary since at least the 15th century. The oldest parts of the nave date back to the 13th century, with the majority of the building added in the 14th century. The present building consists of a chancel, aisled and clerestoried nave with south porch, and a west tower with a short spire. The tower dates from the 15th century, and the present spire replaced an older one in 1972. The basin of the font is 12th century.\nIn 1522 Francis Hasilden, Lord of the Manor of Guilden Morden, was buried in the north aisle \"before Jesus's Altar\" in a tomb which cost his estate £20 sterling.\n\nIn the village there is one open pub the King Edward VII. There is a second pub, named the Three Tuns, which was open by 1851 and closed in 2013; it is currently (2018) the subject of a campaign in the village seeking to purchase and reopen it. Next to the King Edward there is a small village shop, which is now closed. The Six Bells pub, which opened next to the church before 1801, closed some time in the 1960s or 70s, and The Black Swan opened on Swan Lane in the late 19th century and closed in the 20th century. The village's other former pubs are The Pear Tree (47 New Road), The Chestnuts, The Pig and Whistle (63 High Street), The Fox, and The Black Horse (Potton Road).\n\nGuilden Morden Primary School, founded in 1847, opened on its current site in 1974. The school has around 120 children from reception to year 6. The children then go on to Bassingbourn Village College in most cases. In addition the village has a pre-school.\n\nA fete is held each September on the recreation ground in aid of the village hall.\n\n"}
{"id": "2091833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091833", "title": "Barbara Shelley", "text": "Barbara Shelley\n\nBarbara Shelley (born Barbara T. Kowin; 13 February 1932) is a retired English film and television actress.\n\nShe was at her busiest in the late 1950s (\"Blood of the Vampire\") and 1960s when she became Hammer Horror's No. 1 female star, with \"The Gorgon\" (1964), \"\" (1966), \"Rasputin, the Mad Monk\" (1966), and \"Quatermass and the Pit\" (1967) among her credits. She also appeared in \"Village of the Damned\" (1960). Although she is known as a scream queen, her most famous scream (in the aforementioned Dracula film) was dubbed by co-star Suzan Farmer.\n\nHer television appearances include the very first \"Danger Man\" episode, 'View From A Villa' (1960), plus a subsequent episode that season, 'The Traitor' (also 1960); The Saint (TV series) (1962), two episodes of \"12 O'Clock High\" (1965 and 1966); \"The Avengers\" episodes 'Dragonsfield' (1961) and 'From Venus With Love' (1967); the TV miniseries \"Prince Regent\" (1979); \"The Borgias\" (1981); the \"Blake's 7\" episode 'Stardrive' (1981); the Crown Court episode 'Proof Spirits' (1981), the \"Doctor Who\" serial \"Planet of Fire\" (1984) and \"EastEnders\" (1988).\n\nIn 2010, writer and actor Mark Gatiss interviewed Shelley about her career at Hammer Films for his BBC documentary series \"A History of Horror\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2091842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091842", "title": "Suzan Farmer", "text": "Suzan Farmer\n\nSuzan Maxine Farmer (16 June 1942 – 17 September 2017) was an English film and television actress. She was regularly cast in films produced by the Hammer studio.\n\nThe daughter of David Farmer, a trader in metals, and Eleanor (nėe Best), she was born in Maidstone, Kent, although the family later moved to Bray in Berkshire, near the location of Bray Studios, later used by Hammer. Her younger brother is the city financier Michael Farmer, now a Conservative life peer. Both of their parents were alcoholics, as her brother related in his maiden speech in the House of Lords in 2014, and the two children \"experienced the poverty, neglect and shame that are such potent drivers of social exclusion\". David Farmer's company was liquidated and he died before his elder child was seven. Suzan Farmer trained at the Central School of Speech and Drama.\n\nSuzan Farmer had lead roles in several Hammer swashbuckling and horror films of the 1960s. The first of these was \"The Scarlet Blade\" (US: \"The Crimson Blade\", 1963), an English Civil War tale with Lionel Jeffries and Oliver Reed, while \"The Devil-Ship Pirates\" (1964), concerned a ship allied with the Spanish Armada and was the first of her three films with Christopher Lee in the lead. \"\" (1966) and \"Rasputin, the Mad Monk\" (1966) were made back-to back using the same sets and an overlapping cast. In the Dracula film, she was targeted by Lee's vampire, but fought him off sending him to a cold, watery end assisted by Francis Matthews, who played her husband, and also her brother in \"Rasputin\".\n\nAnother of her horror film roles, this time for a company other than Hammer, was as support in \"Die, Monster, Die!\" (aka, \"Monster of Terror\", 1965), starring Boris Karloff as her character's father, but she found Karloff himself rather distant. The thriller \"Persecution\" (1974), with Ralph Bates as her husband, was a failure both critically and at the box-office. Other films include the war drama \"633 Squadron\" (1964) as an RAF driver, plus the comedy \"Doctor in Clover\".\n\nA regular performer in British television series, Farmer appeared in an episode of the Patrick McGoohan series \"Danger Man\" (\"No Marks for Servility\", 1964) and also featured in other ITC series in the 1960s and 70s, including \"UFO\" (\"Survival\", 1971), \"Man in a Suitcase\", \"The Persuaders!\", and in four episodes of \"The Saint\" playing four different characters. She appeared in a BBC television adaptation of Dostoyevsky's \"The Idiot\" (1966) and played Sally Carstairs in their version of Edmund Crispin's detective novel \"The Moving Toyshop\" (1964).\n\nOther television appearances were in the 1968 series \"The Caesars\" (1968), an episode of the BBC science fiction anthology series \"Out of the Unknown\" (1969), an episode of the ATV series \"Thriller\" (\"Death in Deep Water\", 1975) and in the BBC's science fiction series \"Blake's 7\" (\"Deliverance\", 1978). For a month in 1978, Farmer was a cast member of \"Coronation Street\" playing a divorced chiropodist who treated Albert Tatlock, who briefly went out with Ken Barlow's girlfriends.\n\nOn stage, she was a founding member of John Fraser's London Shakespeare Group, playing Olivia in a production of \"Twelfth Night\" which opened in Beijing, China and had a residency at the Donmar Warehouse in 1982. The group toured West Africa performing extracts from the plays for 60,000 children.\n\nFarmer was married to the actor Ian McShane from 1965 to 1968. Her acting career had ended by the mid-1980s, and she later became reclusive and suffered from depression and alcoholism.\n\nFarmer died on 17 September 2017, aged 75, of cancer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091852", "title": "Prince Rong", "text": "Prince Rong\n\nPrince Rong of the First Rank, or simply Prince Rong, was the title of a princely peerage used in China during the Manchu-led Qing dynasty (1644–1912). As the Prince Rong peerage was not awarded \"iron-cap\" status, this meant that each successive bearer of the title would normally start off with a title downgraded by one rank \"vis-à-vis\" that held by his predecessor. However, the title would generally not be downgraded to any lower than a \"feng'en fuguo gong\" except under special circumstances.\n\nThe first bearer of the title was Yongqi (1741–1766), the fifth son of the Qianlong Emperor. In 1765, he was awarded the status of a \"qinwang\" (prince of the first rank) by his father under the title \"Prince Rong of the First Rank\". The title was passed down over seven generations and was held by nine persons.\n\n\"Prince Rong\" may also refer the Shunzhi Emperor's unnamed fourth son (1657–1658), who died as an infant and was given the posthumous title \"Prince Rong of the First Rank\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091853", "title": "Philip Latham", "text": "Philip Latham\n\nCharles Philip Latham (born 17 January 1929) He was educated at Felsted School and the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, from which he graduated in 1951.\n\nIn the late 1960s/early 1970s he was well known to British TV viewers for his portrayal of chief accountant Willy Izard, the \"conscience\" to hard-nosed oil company industrialist Brian Stead (played by Geoffrey Keen) in the BBC series \"The Troubleshooters\" (1965–72). Other credits \"Danger Man\" (1960–1962), \"Jesus of Nazareth\", \"Paul of Tarsus\", \"The Treasure Seekers\", \"The Avengers\", \"Undermind\", \"The Cedar Tree\", \"UFO\", \"The Saint\", \"Maigret\", \"Sergeant Cork\", \"Justice\", \"Love Story\", \"Killers\", \"Hammer House of Horror\", \"No. 10\", \"Nanny\" and \"The Professionals\".\n\nOne of his most famous film roles was as Dracula's sinister servant Klove in Hammer's 1966 film \"\", and he had previously worked for Hammer in \"The Devil-Ship Pirates\" and \"The Secret of Blood Island\" (both 1964). His other film roles included appearances in \"Ring of Spies\" (1964), \"Spy Story\" (1976) and \"Force 10 from Navarone\" (1978). On television he played the joint-lead role of Plantagenet Palliser (opposite Susan Hampshire) in the 26-part BBC series \"The Pallisers\". He also played Lord President Borusa in the 1983 20th anniversary episode of \"Doctor Who\", \"The Five Doctors\".\n"}
{"id": "2091857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091857", "title": "Pinsker", "text": "Pinsker\n\nPinsker is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2091858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091858", "title": "Shefford, Bedfordshire", "text": "Shefford, Bedfordshire\n\nShefford is a town and civil parish located in the Central Bedfordshire district of Bedfordshire, England. At the 2001 census it had a population of 4,928, and was estimated to have grown to 5,770 by 2007.\nThe population at the 2011 Census had risen to 5,881.\n\nRoman remains were discovered in Shefford in the early nineteenth century.\n\nThe labouring-class poet Robert Bloomfield (\"the shoemaker poet\") died in Shefford after his publishers went bankrupt and Bloomfield was forced to move from London into a cottage rented to him by a friend. In Shefford one of his daughters died in 1814 and his wife became insane. In order to support himself he tried to carry on business as a bookseller but failed, and in his later years was reduced to making Aeolian harps which he sold among his friends. With failing eyesight, his own reason threatened by depression, he died in great poverty in the town in 1823. He was buried at Campton, as was usual for those dying in Shefford.\n\nBetween 1868 and 1974 Shefford was the site of St Francis' Boy's Home (orphanage) that was situated on High Street next to the Roman Catholic Church dedicated to St Francis of Assisi. The church remains in use as a place of worship. The orphanage buildings, which are seen on the right of the picture, have been turned into flats. The orphanage buildings are the most imposing in the town and date from the 1880s. Many files regarding the home can be found at the Bedfordshire and Luton Archives and Records Service at Borough Hall in Bedford. There are Home Office and Department for Education Inspection Reports available that cover the period from 1962 to 1969.\n\nDuring World War II an entire Jewish children's community came into being in Shefford as evacuees from Europe were billeted in and around the town as part of \"Operation Pied Piper Tomorrow\".\n\nThe River Flit and the River Hit run through the town. The Flit runs from Flitwick and joins the River Ivel on the edge of Shefford. The Ivel eventually joins the River Great Ouse just north of Sandy.\n\nThe name \"Shefford\" is derived from \"sheep-ford\" because there had been a sheep market and ford crossings over the two rivers that run through the town.\n\nShefford Hardwick was a hamlet located west of the parish, north of Ampthill Road. The rural settlement became a civil parish in its own right in 1858, but was merged into the parish of Shefford in 1933 as the farmstead expanded.\n\nShefford incorporates a fire station, bowls club, sports club, a Memorial Hall, a Community Hall, many pubs and a brewery. As well as this, it has various pubs and restaurants, including Chinese takeaways, award-winning Indian takeaways/restaurants, a Thai takeaway/restaurant and a fish and chip shop. Shefford has two petrol stations, two car dealers, and two pharmacies. There are three estate agents, a newsagent, a convenience store, a charity shop, an angling centre, a bakery, a tea room, a wine bar, a Post Office with sorting facilities an ironmonger/building supply centre and a micro brewery.\n\nThere are two small supermarkets in town and one on the outskirts, a travel agent and a public library.\n\nThere are four Churches - Anglican, Baptist, Methodist and Roman Catholic. Several schools and nurseries, and a large medical practice.\n\nThe town has a scout group, Guiding Groups and a local Army Cadet Force hut at Chicksands on the Army Intelligence Corps base, which is part of Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire ACF, in 4 Company.\n\nThe areas around Shefford are served by the middle school Robert Bloomfield Academy which has a Grade 1 (outstanding) Ofsted report, Samuel Whitbread Academy, Shefford Lower School, Shefford Nursery, BEST nursery and Acorn Pre-School & The Mighty Oaks.\n\nShefford has a Non-League football club Shefford Town & Campton F.C. who play at STMA (Digswell). It is where Jack Collison (Wales and West Ham Footballer) grew up and went to school. There is also a Shefford Saints (Junior) FC where girls and boys from Shefford and the surrounding villages are able to join from the U5 Development squad up to U16 merging into the Adult team.\n\nA modern, concrete skatepark is currently in the planning stages to be constructed on the new building site located off of Campton road.\n\n"}
{"id": "2091860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091860", "title": "Francis Matthews", "text": "Francis Matthews\n\nFrancis Matthews is the name of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091869", "title": "Ss. Cyril and Methodius University of Skopje", "text": "Ss. Cyril and Methodius University of Skopje\n\nThe Saints Cyril and Methodius University in Skopje () is the oldest and largest public university in North Macedonia. It is named after the Byzantine Christian theologians and missionaries Cyril and Methodius. As of 2018–19 school year, a total of 25,220 students are enrolled at the university. Furthermore, the teaching and research staff number 2,390 people; this is further supported by over 300 members in the university's institutions.\n\nThe primary language of instruction is Macedonian, but there are a number of courses which are carried out in English, German, French, Italian and minority languages.\n\nThe university is divided into 23 faculties and 10 research institutes:\n\n\n\nDuring the Bulgarian administration of Vardar Banovina (1941–1944) the new authorities established in 1943, in Skopje, Macedonia's first institute of higher education – the Tsar Boris III University. Due to the withdrawal of the Bulgarian administration in the Autumn of 1944, the University stopped its educational activity. However, after the establishment of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia, on the third session of the Presidium of the Antifascist Council of the National Liberation of Macedonia, held in April 1945, one of the items on the agenda was the question of opening a Macedonian university to replace the Bulgarian one. At the end of 1946, the concept of a university began to be realized and the official opening ceremony for the Faculty of Philosophy, the cornerstone of the University of Skopje, took place on 29 November of that year. This marked the beginning of a Macedonian state university. The first faculty consisted of the Department of History and Philology and the Department of Mathematics and Natural Science, while the Medical Faculty and the Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry were added in 1947. Fifty-eight students enrolled during the first academic year of 1946–1947; in the next year this number grew to 907. The development of higher education in Macedonia was characterized by rapid growth, and several other faculties were added in the following years. Parallel to the education activities in the existing faculties, scholarly research was undertaken with the development of independent institutes of research. Thus, the Institute of National History was founded in 1948, followed by Institute of Folklore in 1949, and the Institute of Economics in 1952. Today, there are 10 research institutes affiliated with the University of Skopje.\n\nAfter the great 1963 Skopje earthquake, which destroyed most of the city of Skopje, the university was leveled and some of the most modern laboratories in Yugoslavia were destroyed. By this time the University of Skopje was the third largest in Yugoslavia. It was quickly rebuilt on the premises of a much larger and modern urban campus. At the request of Yugoslav authorities, scientists from UNESCO's Department of Natural Sciences were sent to meet with the university's scientists to develop plans for the rehabilitation of the university's science laboratories. As a result, a large donation of equipment for science teaching and research was gathered from around the world through UNESCO's international programme of aid to Skopje.\n\nAt present, the University of Skopje is carried out in the spirit of the 1991 Constitution of the Republic of Macedonia, which incorporated the social, economic and political changes that had taken place after Macedonia proclaimed its independence from the Former Yugoslav Federate State. On 3 August 2000 the Parliament of the Republic of Macedonia brought the new Law on Higher Education which adopted the overall European standards of higher education. The management organs of the university are the University Senate, consisting of two staff members from each faculty and scientific research institutes, five appointed members by the government of the Republic of North Macedonia and five students delegated from the Student Organization; the University Board, consisting of the rector, the vice-rectors, the secretary general, the deans of the faculties, the directors of the scientific-research institutes and one student representative; and the rector. The university represents a functional community of 25 faculties and 10 research institutes.\n\nThe Ss. Cyril and Methodius University's mission is to be an:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091870", "title": "Schering AG", "text": "Schering AG\n\nSchering AG was a research-centered German multinational pharmaceutical company headquartered in Wedding, Berlin, which operated as an independent company from 1851 to 2006. In 2006 it was bought by Bayer AG and merged to form the Bayer subsidiary Bayer Schering Pharma AG, which was renamed Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals in 2011. Schering was listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and had 26,000 employees as of 2004.\n\nThe American pharmaceutical company Schering-Plough, formerly the Schering Corporation, was originally the US subsidiary of Schering AG, and merged with Merck & Co. in 2009.\n\nIn 1851, Ernst Christian Friedrich Schering opened the \"Grüne Apotheke\" (Green Pharmacy) in Berlin's \"Chausseestraße\", and in 1871 converted into the name \"Chemische Fabrik auf Actien\" (formerly E. Schering). This date is the company's date of incorporation.\n\nThe company grew strongly in the following years. In 1913, the company employed 935 workers, 112 master craftsman and 180 office employees. In addition to the Berlin site, two factories were also located in Russia (Moscow and Wydriza) with over 1,000 workers and a plant in Great Britain. Turnover at the time was about 10 million German gold mark, created with the production of photochemicals and pharmaceuticals. Important products produced were salicylic acid, the antigout preparation atophan, various sleeping and disinfecting agents.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1920s, Schering took over the wash and colouring company located in the Berlin district \"Köpenick\". In 1922, the management acquired the majority of shares in the chemical factory \"Chemischen Fabrik auf Actien\" (formerly E. Schering) from the Upper Silesian .\n\nIn 1937, the companies \"Kokswerke und Chemische Fabriken AG\" and the \"Chemischen Fabrik auf Actien\" amalgamated with the sister company \"Schering-Kahlbaum AG\" and, on the same day, renamed on account of the internationally respected name \"Schering\" to \"Schering Aktiengesellschaft\". The pharmaceutical business thus became part of a mining and chemical group, which also produced radiographic products and pesticide products.\n\nSchering was the manufacturer of Primodos.\n\nIn March 2006, Merck KGaA announced a €14.6bn bid for Schering, which by 2006 had annual gross revenue of around €5 billion and employed about 26,000 people in 140 subsidiaries worldwide. Bayer responded with a white knight bid and in July acquired the majority of shares of Schering for €14.6bn, and in 2007, Bayer took over Schering AG and formed Bayer Schering Pharma. The acquisition of Schering was the largest take-over in Bayer's history, and as of 2015 this was one of the ten biggest pharma mergers of all time.\n\nAt the time of the merger, the company employed more than 26,000 people in 140 subsidiaries worldwide. Schering's annual gross revenue was nearly €5 billion (2003).\n\nSchering AG focused on the business areas of gynaecology, andrology, multiple sclerosis, oncology, and contrast agents. Schering's best-known products are probably its brands of combined oral contraceptive pills. Other key products included the interferon-beta brand Betaferon (Betaseron in North America) and the paramagnetic contrast agent Magnevist.\n\nThe largest German manufacturing facility was located in Bergkamen.\n"}
{"id": "2091876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091876", "title": "St Briavels", "text": "St Briavels\n\nSt Briavels (pronounced \"Brevels\", once known as 'Ledenia Parva' (Little Lydney)), is a medium-sized village and civil parish in the Royal Forest of Dean in west Gloucestershire, England; close to the England-Wales border, and south of Coleford. It stands almost above sea level on the edge of a limestone plateau above the valley of the River Wye, above an ancient meander of the river. To the west, Cinder Hill drops off sharply into the valley. It is sheltered behind the crumbling walls of the 12th century St Briavels Castle.\n\nLittle is known about the origin of St Briavels. The name is thought to be from a much-travelled early Christian missionary, Brioc, whose name also appears in places as far afield as Cornwall and Brittany.\n\nLater King Offa of Mercia built Offa's Dyke from the mouth of the River Wye near Chepstow to Prestatyn and local remains can still be seen in the nearby Hudnalls Wood. The Normans thought it an ideal site for one of the many castles built from Chepstow to Chester to check the intrusion of the warlike Welsh tribesmen from the Welsh Kingdom of Gwent into the more peaceful areas east of the Severn and Wye rivers. At Windward, the highest point in the parish, the land rises to above sea level; the castle itself is somewhat lower at and nestles into the hillsides, with a commanding view of the Wye Valley between Tintern and Redbrook.\n\nThe castle and St Mary's Parish Church, built in 1089, must have been the site of a considerable community, for the castle was the home of the Constable of the Forest of Dean, a region stretching northwards and eastwards toward the city of Gloucester. Cut off from the rest of England by the tidal Severn River to the east and the treacherous tidal Wye to the west, the Forest was in many ways more isolated than most other parts of the country. As a result, this area produced a culture, language and way of living peculiarly its own. The Forest is full of ancient customs and traditions.\n\nBetween the 11th century and 13th centuries the shire counties were split into hundreds. The hundred of St Briavels is the largest in the Forest of Dean and its boundaries approximate to the Forest boundaries.\n\nThe village was garrisoned by Miles of Gloucester for King Henry I as early as 1130. The castle was later granted to him with the Forest of Dean in July 1141 when he was made Earl of Hereford. In 1155 the castle and the Forest of Dean were held by the Crown after the revolt of Roger Fitzmiles, 2nd Earl of Hereford. It then remained as a Crown possession for the rest of the Middle Ages. The castle has been a hunting lodge of King John of England, and was also visited by Henry II, who made the castle the administrative and judicial centre for the Forest of Dean.\n\nBetween 1876 and 1959, while industry was booming in the Forest of Dean, St Briavels was served by the Wye Valley Railway, and St Briavels Station was situated a mile away near Bigsweir bridge.\n\nCoal mining, iron ore extraction, stone quarrying and forestry with Verderers have all been important primary sources of income in the Forest of Dean.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, local miners were highly valued for their digging skills during military campaigns. It is said that, after a particularly successful job undermining the foundations of Berwick Castle at Berwick-on-Tweed, King Edward I granted 'Free-Mining' status to all Forest of Dean coal and ore miners. This authority gave Freeminers the right to dig for minerals anywhere in the Forest of Dean except beneath churchyards, orchards and gardens. To be a Freeminer, an individual has to be \"born and abiding within the 'Hundred of St Briavels', of the age of 21 and upwards who shall have worked for a year and a day in a coal or iron ore mine or stone quarry within the Hundred\".\n\nIn the past, open cast stone mining was prevalent in the woods to the west of the village. Many millstones used in the mills and cider presses of the time were quarried in the Hudnalls and rolled down the hillside to be transported away by barges on the River Wye. Between the 16th century and 18th century timber from the Forest was heavily relied upon for the construction of ships - and almost became exhausted, supplying to the demands of Drake, Raleigh and Nelson.\n\nA Forester, is a resident natural of the Forest of Dean, born within the ancient administrative area of the Hundred of St Briavels. There are still several traditional Forester families living and working in the area keeping the ancient traditions and rights alive.\n\nFreemining, free roaming sheep grazed on common land, and grazing of pigs in the Forest, are rights and responsibilities extended to the people of St Briavels that are still exercised today, although more so elsewhere in the Forest of Dean.\n\nOther peculiarities to the area include the ancient right for 'sheep badgers' to let their flocks roam freely and pigs were also allowed to forage freely in the Forest. Firewood was also allowed to be gathered from the local Hudnalls wood.\n\nThe village has one pub - The George, a junior school, a church, two chapels and a doctors' surgery. It also has a well regarded village shop and delicatessen called The Pantry operating from a small building opposite The George. The Congregational church, dating from the 1870s, has Gothic Revival architecture.\n\nVillage life today is centred on the school, church, the Pavilions, Assembly Rooms, The George and the Pantry. The Assembly Rooms has a hall with a stage for entertainment and special events for the local close knit community. It also has a small office for hire with Internet and telephone options. Today the Pavilions hold a very popular and well established monthly 'Local Produce and Suppliers Market', a local farmers' market offering a fine selection of organic vegetables, rare breed pedigree pork, award-winning local cheeses, cider, wine, honey and a range of delicacies otherwise usual to London's specialists, Fortnum & Mason.\n\nThe St Briavels Assembly Rooms are used by the community for classes, playgroups and various events. A recent grant from DEFRA of £94,000 is currently being spent on updating the Rooms for increased usage.\n\nThe general character of the village is typified by a mid 19th century core, complemented to the east by a large number of houses built during the 1970s. Although many residents now no longer work in the area the village retains a relatively vibrant community.\n\nThe \"St Briavels Bread and Cheese Dole\" tradition is said to date back to the time of Miles de Gloucester, 1st Earl of Hereford (then lord of the Forest of Dean) in the 12th century. Each year on Whit Sunday bread and cheese is thrown from the wall of the castle to local 'Dole Claimers' dressed in medieval costume. 'Dole claimers' could be anyone who paid a penny to the incumbent Earl of Hereford entitling them to gather firewood from the nearby Hudnalls wood. Some believe in the power of these edible morsels and preserve them for good luck (miners originally used them as charms to protect against accidents underground). Today some people choose to place them in matchboxes and rest them under their pillow to inspire dreams of the future.\n\nAn annual summer fête, known as 'The Carnival', attracts large crowds and is usually held on the second Saturday afternoon in June. Five carnival floats gather and fancy dress contestants congregate around the village green. The floats include St Briavels School, St Briavels Infants, St Briavels Juniors, St Briavels Playgroup and the Carnival Queen Float. The floats then process through the village, finally parking at the bottom of the recreation ground.\n\nA community group called 'Heartbeat St. Briavels' has been set up to provide and maintain defibrillators throughout the village.\n\nCinderhill Farm, which breeds British Saddleback pigs, is open for visitors Fridays to Sundays, free of charge.\n\nThe village is a populous part of 'Newland and St Briavels' electoral ward. This ward starts in the north at Newland and stretches south to St. Briavels. The total ward population taken at the 2011 census was 3,297.\n\nUpper Meend and Lower Meend are locales situated on the west of the village on the slope leading down to the valley floor where the River Wye runs. Nearby hamlets and settlements include St. Briavels Common (which has not been common land since the Enclosure Acts but retains its name), Cold Harbour (an old English place name), Mork, the Fence, the Hudnalls, and Triangle, which lies towards Brockweir. The villages of Llandogo, Penallt and Whitebrook lie on the Welsh side of the Wye Valley in Monmouthshire. At the base of the valley, the Bigsweir Bridge across the Wye is one of the world's first iron bridges.\n\nSt Briavels railway station was a station along the Wye Valley Railway. It was built in 1876 during the construction of the line on the Monmouthshire side of the River Wye at Bigsweir, and was intended to serve the nearby villages of St Briavels, across the river in the Forest of Dean, and Llandogo, which is further down the Wye Valley. The station was renamed three time during its life: firstly Bigsweir Station, then St Briavels and Llandogo Station, and finally St Briavels Station. The station was closed to passenger services on 5 January 1959 and the line closed to freight in 1964.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091891", "title": "RWE", "text": "RWE\n\nRWE AG, until 1990: \"Rheinisch-Westfälisches Elektrizitätswerk AG\" (Rhenish-Westphalian Power Plant), is a German electric utilities company based in Essen, North Rhine-Westphalia. Through its various subsidiaries, the energy company supplies electricity and gas to more than 20 million electricity customers and 10 million gas customers, principally in Europe. RWE is the second largest electricity producer in Germany, and has increased renewable energy production in recent years.\n\nRWE previously owned American Water, the United States' largest investor-owned water utility, but this was divested in 2008. It also owned RWE Dea (now DEA AG), which produced some of the oil and gas RWE sold (annual production is around 2 million m of crude oil (about 365,000 BOE) and 3 billion m of natural gas (about 18 million BOE, 49,300 BOE) a day.\n\nRWE confirmed in December 2015, that it would separate its renewable energy generation, power grid and retail operations into a separate company, Innogy SE, during 2016, and sell a 10% holding in the business through an initial public offering. The restructuring was caused by an effort to reduce the group's exposure to nuclear decommissioning costs, required due to a German government policy of closing all nuclear power stations by 2022.\n\nIn July 2019, RWE's handling of the conflict with activists in the Hambach Forest were strongly criticized in the media. The company finally agreed to refrain from clearing the forest until autumn 2020. \n\nThe company was founded in Essen in 1898, as Rheinisch-Westfälisches Elektrizitätswerk Aktiengesellschaft (RWE) by Elektrizitäts-Actien-Gesellschaft vorm. W. Lahmeyer & Company (EAG) and others. Its first power station started operating in Essen in 1900. In 1902, EAG sold its shares to a consortium formed by Ruhr industrialists Hugo Stinnes and August Thyssen.\n\nIn 1906, it expanded its operations beyond Essen by acquiring Elektrizitätswerk Berggeist AG in Brühl, and Bergische Elektrizitätswerke GmbH, Solingen. At the same year it also acquired shareholdings in the tramway companies Bochum-Gelsenkirchener Straßenbahn AG and Rheinische Bahngesellschaft AG.\n\nIn 1908, RWE signed demarcation contracts with Städtische Elektrizitätswerk Dortmund and Elektrizitätswerk Westfalen AG. Together they created Westfälische Verbands-Elektrizitätswerk AG. RWE contributed to the newly established company by its power station in Dortmund–Kruckel and the supply grid in Witten/Dortmund. Later all these companies formed Vereinigte Elektrizitätswerke Westfalen AG (VEW).\n\nIn 1909, RWE opened the Reisholz Power Plant and acquired a stake in the tram company Süddeutsche Eisenbahngesellschaft AG. At the same year, RWE started to build its own gas supply network. Deliveries of coal gas to the Bergisches Land region started in 1912. In 1914, RWE opened Vorgebirgszentrale power plant in Hürth. By 1920, the plant had installed capacity of 190 megawatts which made it the largest in Europe.\n\nBefore World War I municipalities of Essen, Mülheim an der Ruhr, and Gelsenkirchen, became shareholders in RWE. By the 1920s, also Bonn, Cologne, Krefeld, Duisburg, and Düsseldorf became shareholders and municipalities owned the majority of RWE's shares. In 1925, Prussian state became a shareholder in RWE. In 1929, municipalities and the Rhine Province combined their shareholdings into a holding company Kommunale Aufnahmegruppe für Aktien GmbH.\n\nIn 1920, RWE acquired Niedersächsische Kraftwerke AG, located in Osnabrück. In 1922, it expanded its coal business by acquiring three anthracite mines in Essen and a majority stake in the lignite company Braunkohlen- und Briketwerke Roddergrube AG. In 1923, it acquired its founder company EAG. Three year later, the company acquired a stake in Rheinische Elektrizitäts-Aktiengesellschaft (Rheinelektra) and became a shareholder in the newly established Ruhrgas gas company in exchange of its gas grid. In 1927, RWE and Prussia swapped their holdings in the Brunswick and Cologne coalfields and RWE became an owner of Braunkohlen-Industrie AG Zukunft.\n\nIn 1932, RWE acquired a majority stake in the coal company Rheinische Aktiengesellschaft für Braunkohlenbergbau (Rheinbraun). In 1936, it acquired Niederrheinische Braunkohlenwerke AG, an operator of the Frimmersdorf Power Plant.\n\nOn 1 May 1933, the Executive Board including Ernst Henke joined the NSDAP as a unified body.\n\nSince autumn 1943, the Essen state police had been investigating Wilhelm Ricken, RWE's technical director and designated general director, for \"subversion of the military\". The then First Mayor of Essen, Just Dillgardt, who was also second chairman of RWE's Supervisory Board, had reported Ricken to the state police. Previously, he had received a tip from the then commercial director and fellow board member of Ricken, Friedrich Praedel. This \"board member\" of RWE is said to have pushed Dillgardt to press charges. Wilhelm Ricken was then arrested on 20 October 1943, and sentenced to death on 8 March 1944, by the Volksgerichtshof (People's Court), partly because of his statement that \"the war would end like 1918\". On 2 May 1944, Wilhelm Ricken was executed in Berlin-Plötzensee.\n\nIn 2015, a \"stumbling block\" was placed at this final address in Essen to commemorate his Ricken's fate.\n\nDuring World War II, the infrastructure owned by RWE was severely damaged but mostly repaired by 1948. In 1952, the company was excluded from the Allies' control. In 1957, RWE acquired the coal company Neurath AG.\n\nRWE and the Bavarian state owned 'Bayernwerk' join forces to build Germany's first industrial nuclear reactor. The Kahl experimental nuclear power plant (15 megawatts), constructed right next to RWE's Dettingen hard coal fired power plant, supplies its first electricity in 1962. Until its closure in 1985, this plant will serve as a source of important findings which aid the design and operation of commercial nuclear reactors.\n\nRWE's nuclear operations started in 1961, when RWE and Bayernwerk (now part of E.ON) started to build the German first industrial nuclear reactor—the Kahl Nuclear Power Plant. In 1962, they started to build the Gundremmingen Nuclear Power Plant. In 1965, the at the request of the surrounding municipalities, the Karnap power plant in Essen started to burn domestic waste.\n\nIn 1969, RWE acquired a stake in \"Gelsenkirchener Bergwerks-Aktiengesellschaft\" which allowed its expansion into the oil industry. However, in 1974, it was sold to VEBA AG.\n\nIn 1971, founded \"Gesellschaft für elektrischen Straßenverkehr\", a company to develop an electric car for a commercial scale production. The prototype produced in cooperation with Volkswagen and named City-Stromer was presented in 1983.\n\nIn 1988, RWE again expanded into the oil industry by acquiring Deutsche Texaco, formerly known as Deutsche Erdoel AG, which was renamed RWE-DEA AG für Mineralöl und Chemie (RWE-DEA). RWE was reorganized to hold energy, mining and raw materials; petroleum and chemicals; waste management; mechanical and plant engineering; and construction divisions.\n\nIn the 1990s, RWE acquired a number of assets in the former East Germany, including stakes in the mining company Lausitzer Braunkohle AG (LAUBAG) and the power company VEAG. In 2000, RWE and VEW merged to create a \"new\" RWE, and stakes in LAUBAG and VEAG (now both merged into Vattenfall Europe) were sold to avoid competition violation.\n\nIn 2001, RWE took over the British company Thames Water. In 2002, it acquired American Water Works Company, based in New Jersey, which became a subsidiary of Thames Water. In 2006, RWE sold Thames Water to Kemble Water Limited, a consortium led by Macquarie Group.\n\nIn 2002, RWE acquired the British electricity and gas utility company Innogy for £3 billion (US$4.3 billion). Innogy was subsequently renamed RWE npower plc.\n\nAs a result of the assets swap with RAG AG, RWE gave away its stake in the power company STEAG, it received almost full control of the renewable energy company Harpen AG. The full control of Harpen was achieved in 2005. In 2003, RWE achieved also full control over Thyssengas. At the same year, it decided to divest its American coal company Consol Energy.\n\nIn 2011, RWE unbundled its transmission system by selling its majority stake in the transmission system operator Amprion (RWE Transportnetz Strom GmbH), but keeping 25.1% in the company.\n\nOn 14 August 2012 RWE AG announced that the company would cut 2,400 more jobs to reduce costs. Previously the company had announced to eliminate 5,000 jobs and 3,000 jobs through divestments as anticipated of closing all nuclear reactors by 2022.\n\nIn August 2013, RWE completed the disposal of NET4GAS, the Czech gas transmission network operator, for €1.6billion to a consortium consisting of Allianz and Borealis. The company (named r Transgas A.S. then) was privatized to RWE in 2002. In 200s, RWE also acquired energy companies in Poland (STOEN S.A.), and Slovenia (VSE a.s).\n\nIn March 2015, RWE closed the sale of its oil and gas production unit, RWE Dea, to a group led by Russian billionaire Mikhail Fridman despite opposition from UK regulators.\nThe $5.6 billion deal, announced in 2014, required approval from 14 countries where RWE Dea operates in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.\n\nOn 1 April 2016, RWE transferred its renewable, network and retail businesses into a separate company named Innogy, which is listed at the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The new entity combined RWE subsidiaries RWE Innogy, RWE Deutschland, RWE Effizienz, RWE Vertrieb and RWE Energiedienstleistungen.\n\nIn March 2018, it was announced that E.ON will acquire Innogy in a complex €43 billion deal of assets swap with RWE. As a result, RWE will take a 16.7% stake in E.ON. Following the purchase of E.ON's renewables business and nuclear electricity generation assets, RWE is expected to become Europe's third-largest renewable energy provider behind Spain's Iberdrola and Italy's Enel, and the second-largest in the market for offshore wind power.\n\nRWE operates in Germany, the Netherlands and the UK.\n\nIn the UK RWE fully owns RWE Generation UK plc., which operates a number of coal, natural gas, oil-fired and renewable energy power stations across the UK. The company owns the gas-fired power stations Staythorpe in Nottinghamshire, Pembroke in West Wales, Little Barford in Bedfordshire, Great Yarmouth in Norfolk, and Didcot 'B' Station in Oxfordshire, and the coal-fired power station Aberthaw Power Station in South Wales. It has closed its Didcot 'A' Power Station in Oxfordshire, Littlebrook Power Station in Kent, Fawley Power Station in Hampshire, and Tilbury Power Station in Essex.\n\nRWE jointly owns one third of the Urenco Group with E.ON. The remaining stakes are held by the British and Dutch governments, with one-third each.\n\nRWE produced in 2007, electricity from the following sources: 32.9% hard coal, 35.2% lignite, 1.1% pumped storage, 2.4% renewables, 13.6% natural gas and 14.9% nuclear power. In total, the company produced 324.3 TWh of electricity in 2007, which makes it the 2nd largest electricity producer in Europe, after EdF. Electricity production at the German branch of RWE had in 2006, the following environmental implications: 700 µg/kWh radioactive waste and 752 g/kWh CO2 emissions. In 2010, the company was responsible for 164.0 MTon of CO, In 2007, the company ranked between the 28th and the 29th place of emitters by country. \n\nRWE has long been among the top targets of climate activists, in part as a result of a long-running, high-profile battle to preserve a forest in western Germany that is threatened by the planned expansion of one of the group’s coal mines. RWE also operates some of the largest coal-fired power stations in Europe. \n\nIn 2018, RWE was the largest producer of carbon dioxide emissions in Europe. \n\nSince 2012, environmentalists have protested against RWE because of the Hambach surface mine situated in the area of Hambach Forest. In November 2017, in the lawsuit filed by \"Bund für Umwelt und Naturschutz Deutschland\" (BUND), the German arm of Friends of the Earth, the Higher Administrative Court in Münster ruled to end the tree cutting. According to BUND, Hambach Forest is a habitat type 9160 of annex I of the European Habitats Directive (Council Directive 92/43/EEC of 21 May 1992). \n\nOpponents also argue that an environmental impact assessment study for the mine was never conducted. The Administrative Court in Cologne denied the necessity of such a study in November 2017, because the permission for the mining operations was given in the 1970s, long before environmental impact assessment studies became mandatory. In October 2018, an estimated 50,000 protesters turned out against the company's planned continued forest clear-cutting for its open-pit coal mine expansion while a court order delayed the process until at least late 2020, to explore if it violated EU environmental regulations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091894", "title": "Amerika, Saxony", "text": "Amerika, Saxony\n\nAmerika () is a former company settlement in the German Free State of Saxony and a district of the town of Penig.\n\nAs a small village of 79 residents (2010), it is known merely for its name, the German word for America, which was given to it in the 19th century. In 1836, a spinning factory was built on the left bank of the river Zwickauer Mulde, but houses for workers and clerks were not built until 1870. Initially, because a bridge was only built much later, workers and visitors coming from the right bank of the river had to cross the water using stepping stones or boats to access the place. As \"crossing the pond\" in those times was chiefly understood as emigrating to America, the factory was named \"Amerika\" by the local population. The name became official in 1876 (incidentally, the centennial of the United States of America) when the village's railway station was named \"Amerika\".\n\nThe factory was closed in 1991. Amerika was part of Arnsdorf until 1993 and, together with the latter, became part of Penig in 1994. In 1995, the town of Penig bought the buildings from the Treuhandanstalt, and new trades and a museum (including workshops of locksmiths and file cutters, powered by a refurbished water turbine) have been established since.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091896", "title": "Gangneung Yeongdong University", "text": "Gangneung Yeongdong University\n\nGangneung Yeongdong College is a private technical college in Seongsan-myeon, a rural area of Gangneung city in northeastern South Korea. It takes its name from the Yeongdong region, in which it is located.\n\nThere are twelve major buildings on the campus, which covers an area of 113,000 square metres.\n\nThe school officially opened on June 1, 1963, as Gangneung Superior Technical School of Nursing (강릉간호고등기술학교). It had a maximum enrollment of 90 students. Enrollment was raised to 120 in 1966, and doubled to 240 in 1971. It was redesignated a technical college in 1973.\n\nAs a technical college, the school provides courses of study of two or three years in length. Two-year courses are provided by the Divisions of Health (departments of Optometry and Beauty), Hospitality, Social Service and Industry. Three-year courses are provided by the Divisions of Health, Nursing, and Social Service (department of early childhood education).\n\nEntering classes now average about 1,500 students, of which more than 90% study in regular daytime classes. The remainder attend night school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091899", "title": "Fay Presto", "text": "Fay Presto\n\nFay Presto (born: 17 May 1948) is the stage name of Letitia Winter, a British magician and member of The Inner Magic Circle known for her close-up magic.\n\nPresto's first job was as a lab assistant at an atomic energy research company, and she tried returning to study and working in sales before developing an interest in performing magic in her late thirties. She joined The Magic Circle, but was asked to leave when she began to transition. When The Magic Circle voted to allow women members in 1991, she was one of the first women to join.\n\nPresto specialises in close-up magic, and had held a residency at London's Langan's Brasserie since the start of her magic career. She is known for her \"bottle through the table\" trick, which was ranked as the 37th greatest magic trick of all time by Channel 4's 50 Greatest Magic Tricks.\n\nFay was part of the UK touring show Champions of Magic from 2014-2017, alongside fellow magicians Edward Hilsum, Alex McLear and Young & Strange.\n\nShe was profiled in the BBC documentary series 40 Minutes in 1994 in the episode 'Fay Presto: Illusions of Grandeur' directed by Sally George. In 2017, Presto was the subject of the documentary \"Fay Presto, the Queen of Close-up\".\n\nPresto has appeared in a number of documentaries and played herself in cameo roles.\n\nIn 1998 Presto was voted ‘Party Entertainer of the Year’ by Tatler Magazine.\n\nIn 2012 Presto won the title of The Magic Circle Close-up Magician of the Year 2012.\n\nPresto is a transgender woman, and regularly organises and performs in benefits to support the rights of women, children and the LGBT community. She is an ambassador for Action for Children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2091902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091902", "title": "W. J. Beal Botanical Garden", "text": "W. J. Beal Botanical Garden\n\nThe W. J. Beal Botanical Garden is a botanical garden located on the campus of Michigan State University in East Lansing, Michigan, United States. It is claimed to be the oldest continually maintained university botanical garden in the United States, and is open to the public without charge year round during daylight hours.\n\nThe garden displays 1,800 plant taxa, in economic, systematic, landscape and ecological groupings.\n\nThe botanic garden was started by Prof. William James Beal as part of the Department of Botany to serve as an outdoor teaching and research laboratory. Work towards starting the garden began in 1872 with a nursery, followed 1873 by test plots of 140 species of forage grasses and clovers in a portion of the garden referred to as \"Sleepy Hollow\". Shortly after founding the botanic garden, Professor Beal established an arboretum on campus in 1874 which began as two rows of swamp white oaks. For the period of time from 1877 to 1924, the garden was known as \"The Botanic Garden\" or \"Wild Garden\" at Michigan Agricultural College. Shortly after Professor Beal's death on May 12, 1924, the garden was officially named for him on December 17, 1924 by the Michigan State Board of Agriculture upon the recommendation of the Department of Botany. After Professor Beal's retirement in 1910, Professor H.T. Darlington was appointed Director of The Botanic Garden in 1914 and served until 1930. The gardens developed from these starting points until 1950, when they were reorganized and redesigned by Prof. Milton Baron to form today's four main collections.\n\nIn 1954, the garden began participating in the international seed exchange program, publishing its first Index Seminum, and in 1961 was extended with a collection of acidophilous plants including rhododendrons, azaleas, and ferns. More recently, a collection of Michigan's endangered plants was added in 1986, and the non-flowering vascular plant collection was started in 2001 with ephedras, conifers, ginkgo, cycads, ferns, horsetails and clubmosses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091917", "title": "MS Crown Seaways", "text": "MS Crown Seaways\n\nMS \"Crown Seaways\" is a cruiseferry operated by DFDS Seaways on a route connecting Copenhagen, Denmark to Oslo, Norway. The ship was built in 1994 by Brodosplit in Split, Croatia. She was originally ordered by Euroway and was to be called \"Frans Kockum\" but never sailed under that name. The ship was also temporarily renamed \"Thomas Mann\" during construction. She first sailed under the name \"Crown of Scandinavia\".\n\n\"Crown Seaways\" has three sister ships: \"Amorella\" and \"Gabriella\" in the Viking Line fleet and \"Isabelle\" in the Tallink fleet.\n\nEuroway originally planned to operate two cruiseferries on a route connecting Malmö, Sweden to Travemünde, Germany. To achieve that two identical cruiseferries were ordered from Brodosplit, Croatia, to be called \"Frans Suell\" and \"Frans Kockum\". The ships were a somewhat enlarged version of \"Amorella\" and \"Isabella\" that the shipyard had built for SF Line in 1988 and 1989, respectively. Due to the Croatian War of Independence the delivery of \"Frans Suell\" was delayed by nearly a year, from 1991 to 1992. Poor profitability of the route, further delays in construction of the second ship and a joint operations agreement with Silja Line made Euroway decide to cancel the order for \"Frans Kockum\".\n\nAfter the order was cancelled, the ship was renamed \"Thomas Mann\" and work on her was continued, but at a more leisurely pace. In March 1994 the Thomas Mann sailed from the shipyard in Split to the Fincantieri shipyard at Trieste, Italy for minor modifications. On 2 May 1994 DFDS made a tentative agreement to purchase the ship, and bought her ten days later. The ship was finally delivered on 11 June 1994. From Trieste she sailed to Lloyd Werft, Bremerhaven, Germany, where stern sponsons were added to the ship for increased stability.\n\nOn 26 July the ship was renamed \"Crown of Scandinavia\" and began sailing on Scandinavian Seaways (a marketing name for DFDS passenger operations) Copenhagen — Helsingborg — Oslo -service. In 1999 the company name reverted to DFDS Seaways.\n\nIn January 2005 the ship was rebuilt at Öresundsvarvet, Landskrona, Sweden. On 15 October 2006 the call at Helsingborg was dropped from the route in order to cut down fuel and pilot expenses.\n\nOn 27 April 2014, the vessel experienced engine problems near the Danish island of Anholt, whilst travelling from Copenhagen towards Oslo. It is reported that passengers heard a loud bang, a shudder and smoke at about 21:30, when the vessel suffered an engine failure and crank explosion. The ship soon continued on its way towards Oslo. The cause of the incident is unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "2091919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091919", "title": "A Moment to Remember", "text": "A Moment to Remember\n\nA Moment to Remember (; lit. \"Eraser in My Head\") is a 2004 South Korean film based on the 2001 Japanese television drama \"Pure Soul\". It stars Son Ye-jin and Jung Woo-sung and follows the theme of discovery in a relationship and the burdens of loss caused by Alzheimer's disease.\n\nThe film was released on November 5, 2004 in South Korea. It was a major success domestically, topping the box office for two consecutive weeks to become the 5th highest-grossing film of 2004 at 2,565,078 admissions. The film was also a hit in Japan, breaking previous records of Korean films released there; it was the 19th highest-grossing film at the 2005 Japanese box office.\n\nJohn H. Lee and Kim Young-ha won Best Adapted Screenplay at the 2005 Grand Bell Awards.\n\nThe first act of the film introduces the protagonists, a woman named Su-jin and a man named Chul-soo. The movie highlights their accidental meeting, followed by their subsequent courting despite their difference in social status that should have kept them apart. Kim Su-jin is a 27-year-old fashion designer, spurned by her lover, a colleague who was also a married man. Depressed, she goes to a convenience store, where she bumps into a tall, handsome man with whom she has a slight misunderstanding. Following that, she returns home and, receiving her father's forgiveness, decides to start life afresh.\n\nOne day while accompanying her father, who is the CEO of a construction firm, she coincidentally meets the man whom she earlier bumped into at the convenience store. He is Choi Chul-soo, the construction site's foreman who is studying to become an architect. Though he initially appears like a rough and dirty construction worker, Chul-soo exudes sheer masculinity in its most basic physical form. Su-jin instantly takes a liking to Chul-soo and actively courts him. There are many sweet events that take place in the occurrence of their courtship, eventually leading to their marriage.\n\nThe second act follows the couple happily settling into married life, with Chul-soo designing their dream house and Su-jin learning to become a housewife. As time passes, however, Su-jin begins to display forgetfulness, including an incident in which a fire breaks out because of a stove she'd forgotten to turn off. While Chul-soo caught the fire in time, the seriousness of the incident and others like it leads them to seek medical help.\n\nThe third act deals with Su-jin's early-onset Alzheimer's disease diagnosis, and the couple's consequent response to it. Su-jin at first experiences denial, then becomes heavily burdened by the knowledge that she will forget her husband. Nevertheless, they make the commitment to stay together and as the disease progresses, the trials the couple go through increase because of Su-jin's deteriorating memory. Finally, Su-jin makes the decision to leave their home and check herself into an assisted facility.\n\nDespite his grief, Chul-soo remains at Su-jin's side even when she doesn't remember him, hiding his eyes behind sunglasses when he visits her so she can't see his tears. At the end of the film, Chul-soo reenacts the first time they met in the convenience store, with all of Su-jin's friends and family there. In the final scene, Su-jin is riding in a car beside her husband at sunset, and he tells her, \"I love you.\"\n\nOn October 22, 2008 it was reported that CBS Films had secured the rights for an American remake, with Susannah Grant attached to write the screenplay. After a turnaround, it was announced in February 2013 that Scott Pictures will produce and finance along with Sobini Films and Film 360. The film will be directed by Ben Lewin and Katherine Heigl has been cast as the female lead.\n\nOther works inspired by this film with plots involving the female protagonist diagnosed with Alzheimer's while her husband stands by her, include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2091920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091920", "title": "Libera (choir)", "text": "Libera (choir)\n\nLibera is an all-boy English vocal group directed by Robert Prizeman. Libera regularly performs concerts in many countries, including the UK, the US and Asia, and regularly makes recordings for their own album releases and other projects.\n\nMany members also sing in the parish choir of St. Philip's, Norbury, in South London. According to a 2009 \"Songs of Praise\" TV special, the group usually consists of approximately 40 members between the ages of seven and sixteen, including new members who are not yet ready to fully participate in albums or tours. The group recruits from a variety of backgrounds in the London area, and does not require its members to belong to any specific denomination.\n\nIn addition to recording albums, touring and making regular TV appearances as Libera, the group sings on a weekly basis as part of the full choir of men and boys at parish choral services. Libera is run as a not-for-profit registered UK charity, \"providing the opportunity for suitable boys to train as vocalists from any background\". Members do not get paid for their work within Libera, but their expenses are covered when touring.\n\nThe group's name comes from its signature song, \"Libera\", which is based on the \"Libera Me\" portion of the Requiem Mass. \"Libera\" is the Latin singular imperative of \"liberare\", meaning \"to free\".\n\nThe Anglican (High Church) parish of St. Philip's, Norbury has a long choral tradition. Their first non-traditional commercial work was in 1984, when the boys of the St. Philip's Choir backed Sal Solo on his song \"San Damiano\". In 1987, the boys of St. Philip's Choir released the single, \"Sing Forever\". In 1988, the choir released the single \"Adoramus\". In 1988, the choir released their first full commercial album, \"Sing For Ever\" under the name St. Philip's Choir. The title track for this album was chosen by the BBC as the first Children in Need telethon anthem.\n\nThe second album, \"New Day\", released in 1990, was the first album to use the name Angel Voices. During the 1990s, the names \"St. Philip's Boy Choir\" and \"Angel Voices\" were both used to refer to the choir. The third album, \"Angel Voices\", was released in 1992. It was re-released in 1993, with the choir referred to as the St. Philip's Boy's Choir. \"Angel Voices 2\" was released in 1996 and \"Angel Voices 3\" was released in 1997. Both were released under the name of St. Philip's Boy's Choir, by the record label MCI.\n\nIn 1999, Robert Prizeman released a single and a CD, \"Libera\". The CD contained seven remixes of his original song, \"Libera\". The first four tracks feature Libera with Daren Geraghty as the main soloist; the last 3 tracks are performed by other artists. In the same year, the choir, calling itself Libera, performed the song on the TV programme \"Sunday Live\". In 1999, the choir released another album entitled \"Libera\", published by Warner Classics. From that point on, the choir has been consistently referred to as \"Libera\" when acting in its commercial capacity. The next Libera album, \"Luminosa\", was released by Warner Classics in 2001. In 2003, Warner Classics re-released \"Libera\" and \"Luminosa\" as a two CD set entitled \"Complete Libera\". Ever since 2004, Libera has been under contract with EMI. Their first EMI album was \"Free\". \"Visions\" came out in 2005. Libera's 2006 album, \"Angel Voices\", was nominated as Album of the Year by the Classical Brit Awards. \"New Dawn\" was released in March 2008. In December 2008, they released their first double CD entitled \"Eternal (The best of Libera)\" which contains 26 tracks taken from earlier albums and six new tracks. Their album \"Peace\" was released in 2010. November 2011 saw the release of \"\".\n\nLibera became a registered charity in 2007 under the guidance of the late Steven Philipp (whose son Ben was a soloist in the choir). A US arm of that charity was set up in 2014.\n\nAs Angel Voices, the group made frequent appearances on UK television, mostly on the BBC. During the earlier years as Libera, the group seldom made any TV appearances and concerts were also few and far between. It is only since the group turned into a registered charity in the UK, where a board of trustees consisting largely of parents of members makes all decisions, that Libera have made regular tours (usually three times a year) and more frequent TV appearances.\n\nMajor roles in the 1992 TV programme \"Titchmarsh on Song\", presented by Alan Titchmarsh, and the 1993 TV programme \"Thora on the Straight and Narrow\", introduced Angel Voices to a wider public. The show featured the first public performance of the song \"De Profundis\", which would become \"Libera\" and give the choir its name. Libera has made numerous music videos for \"Songs of Praise\" and \"Classic FM TV\". Other TV appearances include guest spots on \"GMTV\", \"Blue Peter\", \"Sunday Live\", \"Christmas Cooks\", \"Top of the Pops\", \"Wogan\", and \"Last Choir Standing\". In 1994, St. Philip's Choir sang in an episode of the TV series Poirot. In 2003, Libera was the last act to perform on the UK version of the famous TV series \"This is your Life\"; they performed for guest Aled Jones. During the episode, it was mentioned that Libera had performed at Aled Jones' wedding. In February 2007, Libera appeared on the television contest \"When Will I Be Famous?\" presented by Graham Norton on BBC One. They won, and were invited back the following week. Libera has made several TV appearances in Japan and Korea. Libera also recorded the signature tune for \"Songs of Praise\". Their rendition of \"How Can I Keep From Singing\" was featured on a British television ad for Waitrose.\n\nOn 30 and 31 May 2007, Libera recorded two free concert performances at the Pieterskerk in Leiden, the Netherlands, with the cooperation of the American Public Television. Footage from the performances was combined to create the TV special \"Angel Voices: Libera in Concert\". The programme was featured on Public Broadcasting Service channels in the United States and released by EMI on DVD and CD. The DVD includes a bonus feature entitled \"Libera in Their Own Words\", which features interviews of some of the boys.\n\nA 35-minute special about Libera aired in January 2009 as an episode of the BBC1 TV show \"Songs of Praise\".\n\nOn 22 December 2013, Libera were featured singing an arrangement of \"Silent Night\" in the BBC1 \"Songs of Praise Christmas Big Sing\", recorded in the Royal Albert Hall.\n\nLibera has provided choral backing to a number of artists, including Aled Jones, Björk, Luciano Pavarotti, Hayley Westenra, Peter Skellern, José Carreras, Neil Diamond, Cliff Richard, and Michael Crawford. Libera has also sung for several film soundtracks, including \"Romeo & Juliet\", \"The Merchant of Venice\", \"Shadowlands\" and \"Hannibal\". A movie preview for \"The Curious Case of Benjamin Button\" uses a brief selection from one of their songs, but they do not appear in the film's final soundtrack.\n\nSeveral Libera members have performed solo work outside of Libera while still members of the choir. For example, Tom Cully sang for \"Silence, Night and Dreams\" by Zbigniew Preisner, and can be heard singing in an episode of the British television series \"Foyle's War\". In 2002, Libera member Steven Geraghty was a featured soloist for the soundtrack of the PlayStation 2 game \"Ico\". More recently, Libera member Ciaran Bradbury-Hickey helped to record the soundtrack of [Road] which is a short film about motorbike racing. Former Libera member Ben Crawley did solo work for Paul Joyce's production of \"The Snow Queen\" in 2004.\n\nLibera has a distinctive sound. All of its singers are boys, most with unchanged boy soprano (also known as treble) voices, with those boys in their early teens singing the lowest parts. Almost all their songs are either new compositions by Robert Prizeman or new arrangements of classical and contemporary tunes. Prizeman often composes and arranges pieces with individual soloists in mind, to emphasize the variety of characteristics and qualities in the boys' voices. His compositions blend innovative textures, meditative soloists and vibrant ecstatic chorus harmonies that stretch across the full range of the boys' range. Libera's music frequently combines elements of Gregorian chant, classical composers such as Debussy, Beethoven and Pachelbel, as well as contemporary pop and new age music. Some of their songs, such as \"Sanctus\", have appeared in different versions on several of their albums. Some more contemporary songs have been covered by the group, such as Enya's \"Orinoco Flow\".\n\nMost of Libera's lyrics come from traditional hymns, the Latin Rite liturgy, and contemporary songs by artists ranging from Brian Wilson and Billy Joel to Enya. However, lyrics from various poems and original lyrics are also used. For example, \"We are the Lost\" uses the poems \"In Flanders Fields\" by John McCrae and \"For the Fallen\" by Laurence Binyon, along with a single stanza from the English hymn, \"O God, Our Help in Ages Past\" by Isaac Watts. While most of the Libera's original lyrics are written by Robert Prizeman, other individuals, including former Libera soloist Steven Geraghty, have also contributed new lyrics to recent albums.\n\nLibera uses a variety of instrumentation. Robert Prizeman, Ian Tilley and Steven Geraghty play electronic keyboards, piano and organ. Steven Geraghty also played clarinet for \"Free\", \"Visions\" and \"Angel Voices\", and percussion for \"Visions\" and \"Angel Voices\". All of their EMI albums feature Fiona Pears on the violin. \"Angel Voices: Libera in Concert\" has additional backing by Il Novecento Orchestra. The City of Prague Philharmonic Orchestra provides backing to their \"New Dawn\" album.\n\nFor most of their performances, the boys of Libera wear distinctive white hooded robes based on monastic cowls. The boys can be seen wearing the robes on the covers of several albums. Other Libera uniforms include white or black hoodies and black slacks with light blue shirts. Some of their videos have featured the boys wearing ordinary, casual clothing.\n\nCommon motifs in the cover art of the choir's albums include birds, clouds, light as well as pictures of the choristers. The 2017 release of \"Hope\" adapts this theme using a line drawing of robed choristers.\n\nThe 1993 release of \"Angel Voices\", \"Angel Voices 2\", \"Angel Voices 3\", \"Libera\", \"Luminosa\" and \"Welcome to Libera's World\" all feature white birds (presumably doves, the bird of peace) on their covers. \"Sing Forever\", the 1992 release of \"Angel Voices\", \"Angel Voices: Libera in Concert\" and \"New Dawn\" show several of the boys dressed in white robes. \"Free\" and \"Visions\" both show a single, ghostly figure in white robes against a cloudy background. On album \"Free\" the ghostly figure featured is Callum Payne. The 2006 \"Angel Voices\" album shows several boys wearing what appear to be white hoodies.\n\n\nAs Angel Voices:\n\nAs Libera:\n\n\nAs Angel Voices:\n\nAs Libera:\n\nSince becoming a registered charity in the UK, Libera has made numerous appearances on TV, radio, and in concert.\n\n2000\n\n2002\n\n2005\n\n2007\n\n2008\n\n2009\n\n2010\n\n2011\n\n2012\n\n2013\n\n2014\n\n2015\n\n2016\n\n2017\n\n2018\n\n2019\n\n"}
{"id": "2091936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091936", "title": "Mapita Cortés", "text": "Mapita Cortés\n\nMapita Cortés (August 4, 1939 – January 15, 2006 born Maria del Pilar Mercado Cordero in 1939 in San Juan, Puerto Rico – died in Mexico City), was a Puerto Rican actress of telenovelas and the cinema of Mexico. She is the mother of Mexican actor Luis Gatica, the wife of Lucho Gatica, the niece of Puerto Rican actress Mapy Cortés, and the niece in law of Mexican actor Fernando Cortés. Mapita Cortés is also the cousin of famous Paquito Cordero, two years her junior.\n\nMapita Cortés demonstrated desire to become an actress since she was a child. As she and her cousin grew, her cousin became a known personality in Puerto Rico. Mapita Cortés, however, tried her luck in Mexico, since her aunt had adopted her and was a celebrity there. Mapita Cortés took her last name from her uncle and aunt.\n\nCortés became a sensation in the Mexican film industry during the 1950s, when she appeared in 1958's \"Misterios de ultratumba\" (\"Mysteries of the Afterlife\"). This movie became a contemporary Mexican classic.\n\nCortés then starred or played important roles in a number of films, following her uncle and aunt's footsteps by becoming a celebrity on her own in Mexico. She decided to establish herself in the North American country permanently after enjoying success there.\n\nWhile she was doing films, another celebrity, Chilean singer Lucho Gatica, fell in love with her and the two began a romance that would lead to a marriage. Together with Gatica, Mapita Cortés procreated a son, Luis Gatica (born in 1961), who would himself also become a celebrity as a telenovela actor and rock music singer during the 1980s.\n\nAfter marrying Lucho Gatica, Mapita Cortés semi-retired from the world of show business, becoming a housewife instead and attending to her son. But she returned to activity sporadically, becoming what is known as a \"character\" actress in some of Mexico's most famous telenovelas. In 1989, she participated alongside Verónica Castro in Televisa's \"Mi pequeña Soledad\", which became a major hit across Mexico, the United States and even Europe, giving Mapita Cortés a degree of celebrity in countries like Russia and others. Mapita Cortés also had the opportunity to work alongside Mariana Levy, who died in 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091940", "title": "The Butcher's Wife", "text": "The Butcher's Wife\n\nThe Butcher's Wife is a 1991 romantic comedy film, in which a clairvoyant woman (Demi Moore) thinks that she's met her future husband (George Dzundza), who she has seen in her dreams and is a butcher in New York City. They marry and move to the city, where her powers tend to influence everyone she meets while working in the shop. Through her advice, she helps others and eventually finds the true man of her dreams in a psychiatrist (Jeff Daniels). \"The Butcher's Wife\" was a critical and commercial failure, grossing only $9 million at the box office. According her memoir 2019 \"Inside Out\", Moore regretted starring in the film, saying she only did it to increase her fee after the success of \"Ghost\".\n\nAs a clairvoyant, Marina awaits signs from beyond that her true love, whoever he may be, is waiting for her, somewhere. When New York butcher Leo Lemke shows up on the tiny North Carolina island of Ocracoke, where Marina lives, she is convinced that he is the man predestined to be her husband. After the wedding, Marina moves into Leo's blue-collar neighborhood, where she successfully commiserates with such eccentrics as withdrawn teenager Eugene, frustrated singer Stella Keefover, unlucky-in-love actress Robyn Graves, over analytical psychiatrist Dr. Alex Tremor, and closeted lesbian dress shop clerk Grace. But what Marina fails to grasp about her powers is that she can see the future of strangers far more clearly than her own, and love is unpredictable no matter how many ways you have to look for it.\n\nThe film makes use of several phenomena that can be described as occult portents that meeting a love match is imminent or occult tools to help strengthen, seal or bring about love, luck and happiness. These include the sudden \"finding\" of a ring that would serve as a wedding band, falling stars with twin tails, zig-zagged rainbows and found objects symbolizing a change in the finder's path that will cause it to cross with their beloved.\n\n\nThe film has been released on VHS and later on DVD.\n\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 25%, based on 16 reviews, and an average rating of 3.9/10.\n\nOne nomination:\n\n"}
{"id": "2091946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091946", "title": "Altana", "text": "Altana\n\nAltana AG (styled as ALTANA) is a German chemical company headquartered in Wesel. It was created in 1977 through the spin-off of divisions of the Varta Group. The first CEO was Herbert Quandt.\n\nThe group comprises the divisions BYK (coating additives and instruments), Eckart (metal effect pigments and metallic printing inks), Elantas (insulation materials for the electrical and electronics industries) and Actega (coatings and sealant compounds for the packaging industry).\n\nThe Altana Group has 47 production facilities and 65 service and research laboratories worldwide. In 2019, the company, with about 6,500 employees, posted revenues of approximately €2.25 billion.\n\nAltana's roots go back to 1873, when Heinrich Byk founded the chemicals factory Dr. Heinrich Byk Chemische Fabrik in Oranienburg. The company grew, and in 1931 it was renamed BYK-Gulden Lomberg. In 1941 majority control of the company was acquired by AFA (Akkumulatoren-Fabrik AG) which was renamed VARTA in 1962. In 1977 VARTA was split into three companies, one of which was Altana.\n\nFrom 1977 to 2010, Altana was publicly traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. Altana was also admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange from 2002 to 2007.\n\nOn 19 December 2006 the majority of shareholders voted to approve the sale of the pharmaceuticals division to the Danish company Nycomed. Nycomed is owned by an investment consortium led by Nordic Capital and Credit Suisse. With the sale of the pharmaceuticals division, headquartered in Konstanz, Germany, Altana lost a major pillar of its business. At that time, 9,000 of the company's 13,500 employees were working for Altana in the pharmaceuticals sector, generating two-thirds of the company's total revenue. And indeed, the balance-sheet revenues fell by around 60 percent in 2006, but gained over six percent in 2007.\n\nThe patent for pantaprazole, the main revenue-generator for the former pharmaceuticals division, expired in 2009/2010. While the Altana Management Board justified the divestiture of the pharmaceutical business with delays in the approval of new products, increased research and development costs as well as strict regulatory requirements in the US and Europe, shareholder activists asserted that the Management Board had invested too little in the pharmaceutical business in the preceding years and had failed to develop successor products in time to compensate for the revenue losses to be expected due to the expiry of the pantaprazole patent at the end of the decade.\n\nThe pharmaceuticals division was sold for €4.6 billion. The entire proceeds from the sale were disbursed to the shareholders, who received a special dividend of €33 per share. Critics expressed discontent that the main shareholder benefited most from the sale of the pharmaceuticals division.\n\nUntil 1 January 2007, the company was organized into the pharmaceuticals division Altana Pharma AG, formerly Byk Gulden Lomberg Chemische Fabrik, headquartered in Konstanz, and the specialty chemicals division Altana Chemie AG based in Wesel. Since the sale of the pharmaceutical business to Nycomed, Altana has been operating exclusively in the specialty chemicals segment. This restructuring was accompanied by a change in the company logo, which was unified across all subsidiaries.\n\nOn 6 November 2008, main shareholder SKion GmbH (Germany, owned by Susanne Klatten) issued a public takeover offer of €13 per share for all outstanding shares, an action which drove up the stock price. A company spokesperson stated that the intention was to delist the company from public trading. To achieve this, SKion issued a second takeover offer of €14 per share to the remaining shareholders on 9 November 2009.\n\nOn 30 December 2008, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange announced that Altana would be removed from its MDAX index, as the increase in the share held by SKion had pushed the portion of stock held in free float to under ten percent. By June 2010, SKion held 95.04 percent of all shares.\n\nIn Germany, the stock was traded mainly on the Frankfurt and Stuttgart Exchanges and the Xetra platform; internationally, it was admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange and the NASD Group, now FINRA, in the US.\n\nAfter SKion acquired the entire Altana stock through a squeeze-out, trading in this stock was suspended effective 27 August 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2091948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091948", "title": "Ian Dempsey", "text": "Ian Dempsey\n\nIan Dempsey (born 16 January 1961) is an Irish presenter of television and breakfast radio. He is the long-running presenter of the breakfast show on Today FM, self-titled \"The Ian Dempsey Breakfast Show\", which runs from 7-9am each weekday. He has won several major awards for his programmes and was the Republic of Ireland's tenth most-listened-to broadcaster in 2007.\n\nOn 9 June 2010, he co-hosted the opening ceremony of the 2011 Special Olympics World Summer Games Irish heats at Thomond Park with Des Cahill.\n\nDempsey began his first experiments in radio in 1967 when at the age of six he made his first radio show in a friend's house. In 1978 he joined Dublin pirate station Capitol Radio, and later worked for Alternative Radio Dublin and Radio 257.\n\nOn 29 February 1980, he joined the national broadcaster, Raidió Teilifís Éireann (RTÉ), to present \"The Weekend Breakfast Show\" on RTÉ 2fm, and later, shows such as \"Poparama\", \"The Hotline\", \"Night Train\" and \"The Great Giveaway Show\". Dempsey later hosted the lunchtime show before moving to the breakfast slot in the mid-1980s. He picked up where Marty Whelan had left off, engaging the audience with his natural personality, a world apart from the 'jocks' that stalked the Radio Centre in Montrose at the time. Apart from a brief time off breakfast following 2fm's 1989 relaunch, he has remained on early mornings since. Maxi was placed on the breakfast show at that time, but, after a few weeks, it was apparent to all that her style was not suited to the format; Dempsey was promptly reinstated.\n\n1986 saw Dempsey's first major exposure to television, with the children's show \"Dempsey's Den\", which also gave the alien twin puppets Zig and Zag their first break to the small screen. Noted for his choice of brightly coloured jumpers, Dempsey presented \"The Den\" until the summer of 1990 and later reflected on his time at the helm in a 2008 RTÉ documentary. He also worked on various TV shows including the pop music quiz show \"Number 1\" and three seasons of \"The Beatbox\", a two-hour music video show simulcast on Network 2 and RTÉ 2fm. He was also the first host of the Irish version of \"Talkabout\".\n\nDempsey weathered the storm of the advent of independent radio in Ireland on RTÉ 2fm breakfast. His style was informal and relaxed. His rapport with Des Cahill was particularly strong. John Clarke, later head of RTÉ 2fm, produced the show and occasionally deputized.\n\nDempsey shocked the Irish radio world in 1998 by announcing a move to the newly relaunched Today FM. He had been tempted by a sizable salary package to join the station that 12 months beforehand had languished with a minimal JNLR result. He left RTÉ for Today FM in July 1998 and since 21 September 1998 (when his breakfast show was launched) he has worked at the station with his Gift Grub team providing comedic value. 2fm have struggled to find a suitable replacement ever since. Attempts have included Hector Ó hEochagáin, Ryan Tubridy, Colm Hayes and Marty Whelan in recent years. When the move was announced he was refused entry to the Montrose campus and publicly complained that over 20,000 albums of his were not returned to him by RTÉ. In recent years it has been widely reported that 2fm have tried to tempt him back. In 2007 Dempsey started presenting an online radio show for Irish people abroad called \"The Craic\".\n\nDempsey appeared on \"The Restaurant\" where he bamboozled the critics with his Mini Bloody Mary Burgers, JFK's Lidded Lobster Soup, Swedish Meatballs, Tagliatelle with Lightly Curried Prawns, Deeply Bitter Chocolate Mousse and a dish he called \"The Bomb\".\n\nIn late August 2015 Dempsey and Today FM colleague Louise Duffy presented The Seven O’Clock Show on TV3 filling in for usual hosts Martin King and Lucy Kennedy.\n\nDempsey lives in Sutton, Dublin. He is married to Ger and has three children. Evan is a member of the band The Kapitals who have played the Oxegen Festival twice while Shane works as an engineer for Today FM.\n\nDempsey was nominated in the category of Best Radio DJ - National at the 2010 Meteor Awards.\n\nOn 16 September 2016, it was announced that Dempsey had been inducted into the PPI Radio Awards Hall of Fame along with RTE 2FM DJ Dave Fanning and South East Radio's Eamonn Buttle and Downtown Radio's Trevor Campbell.\n\n"}
{"id": "2091962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091962", "title": "House of the Vestals", "text": "House of the Vestals\n\nThe House of the Vestal Virgins (; ) was the residence of Vestal Virgins, located behind the circular Temple of Vesta at the eastern edge of the Roman Forum, between the Regia and the Palatine Hill. The \"domus publica\", where the Pontifex Maximus dwelled, was located near the Atrium until that role was assumed by the emperors.\n\nThe \"Atrium Vestae\" was a three-story 50-room palace in the ancient Roman Forum built around an elegant elongated atrium or court with a double pool. To the very east is an open vaulted hall with a statue of Numa Pompilius, the mythological founder of the cult.\n\nThe complex lay at the foot of the Palatine Hill, where a sacred grove that was slowly encroached upon lingered into Imperial times, when all was swept away by the Fire of Rome in 64. The House of the Vestals was rebuilt several times in the course of the Empire. After the dissolution of the College of the Vestals and the introduction of compulsory Christianity by Theodosius I in the late 4th century AD, the House of the Vestals continued to serve as a residence building. It now housed officials of the imperial court, and subsequently the papal court. Archaeological finds from this period include a hoard of 397 gold coins from the 5th century and another 830 Anglo-Saxon coins dating from the 9th and 10th centuries. The site was abandoned in the 11th/12th century.\n\nToday, remains of the statues of the Vestals can be seen in the \"Atrium Vestae\".\n"}
{"id": "2091968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091968", "title": "Michael Erlewine", "text": "Michael Erlewine\n\nJohn Michael Erlewine (; born July 18, 1941) is an American musician, astrologer, photographer, TV host, publisher and Internet entrepreneur who founded the music online database site AllMusic (formerly known then as All Music Guide) in 1991.\n\nErlewine has had several careers. As a musician, he was active in the Michigan folk scene in the late 1950s and early 1960s. In 1961 he hitchhiked with Bob Dylan, and had traveled to Greenwich Village, Venice, California, and San Francisco. He and his brother Dan founded a blues band called The Prime Movers, which regularly played Chicago; other members included \"Blue\" Gene Tyranny (Robert Sheff). When the drummer left, they replaced him with Iggy Pop (James Osterberg), then 18 years old. The Prime Movers gave him the nickname \"Iggy\" as he had played in the band The Iguanas. According to biographer Jim Ambrose, the two years Osterberg spent in the band made him aware of \"art, politics, and experimentation\".\n\nIn 1977 Erlewine founded Matrix Software. He was the first person to program astrology on microcomputers and make astrological programs available to the astrological community. He has published more than forty books on astrology and related topics.\n\nMichael Erlewine and his band, the Prime Movers, were inducted into the Michigan Rock and Roll Legends Hall of Fame in 2015.\n\nErlewine and his wife have four children. He is the uncle of American music critic Stephen Thomas Erlewine.\n\nIn the 1990s, Erlewine founded the All Music Guide (allmusic.com), the All Movie Guide (allmovie.com), and the All Game Guide (allgame.com). The first site in particular has become an important popular music reference that licenses its content to numerous other websites. Erlewine regained control of Matrix Software (astrologysoftware.com) in November 2008 and continues as director of that company.\n\nErlewine is the host on a 12-segment television channel called Spirit Grooves / Dharma Grooves, featuring topics on alternative awareness and reaching some 540,000 viewers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091972", "title": "Korba, Chhattisgarh", "text": "Korba, Chhattisgarh\n\nKorba is a city and an industrial area in Korba District in the Indian state of Chhattisgarh.\n\nKorba is located at . It has an average elevation of 252 metres (826 feet). India census, Korba city had a population of 365,253.\n\nKorba Super Thermal Power Plant of NTPC is located at Jamanipali area. It receives coal from Gevra and Kusmunda mines and source of water for the power plant is Hasdeo River. Korba Thermal Power Station is owned and operated by National Thermal Power Corporation. There are more small Power Plant near city like Hasdeo Thermal Power Station, Dr Shyama Prasad Mukharjee Thermal Power Station and Lanco Amarkantak Power Plant.\n\nBharat Aluminium Company has plant which is one of the Asia's largest aluminium production industries. In 2009, chimney under construction by Gannon Dunkerley & Company at the Balco smelter collapsed killing 49 workers and GDCL management have been accused of negligence in the incident.\n\nIt also has a large petroleum containment complex which gets oil from under ground pipelines belonging to Indian Oil Corporation.\n\nKorba is headquarter of Korba district. Korba City has been a metropolitan municipality with a mayor-council form of government. Korba Municipal Corporation (KMC) was established in 1956 under the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Palika Nigam Adhiniyam. The KMC is responsible for public education, correctional institutions, libraries, public safety, recreational facilities, sanitation, water supply, local planning and welfare services. The mayor and councillors are elected to five-year terms. \n\nKorba (Lok Sabha constituency) is a Lok Sabha parliamentary constituency for the city and constituency is composed of the following assembly segments: Rampur (ST) (assembly constituency no. 20), Korba (assembly constituency no. 21), Katghora (assembly constituency no. 22) and Pali-Tanakhar (ST) (assembly constituency no. 23) is part of Korba district. Currently, Jyotsna Charan Das Mahant of Indian National Congress is a member of parliament to the 17th Lok Sabha and Jai Singh Agrawal of Indian National Congress sitting Member of the Legislative Assembly from Korba (Vidhan Sabha constituency).\n\nKorba railway station is connected to Champa, the nearest railway junction on the Howrah-Nagpur-Mumbai line. The stations comes under South East Central Railway Zone. It is directly connected to Bilaspur which the Divisional Headquarter by rail. The long, broad gauge was constructed between 1953 and 1956, electrified in 1987 and 1988, and extended to Gevra Road railway station in 1988 and 1989. New line surveys of Indian Railway were taken during 2012 and 2013, and included a line from Renukoot-Korba via Ambikapur Katghora and Korba-Ranchi.\n\nKorba is well connected with Champa through NH 149B, Ambikapur and Bilaspur through NH 130.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091974", "title": "Jakob van Domselaer", "text": "Jakob van Domselaer\n\nJakob van Domselaer (15 April 1890 in Nijkerk, Gelderland – 5 January 1960) was a Dutch composer.\n\nDomselaer was born at Nijkerk, Netherlands. In 1912, he traveled to Paris where he met the Dutch painter Piet Mondrian (1872–1944), eventually becoming a part of Mondrian's artistic circle known as \"De Stijl.\" Domselaer's piano suite \"Proeven van Stijlkunst\" (Experiments in Artistic Style, 1913–17) represented the first attempt to apply principles of Neo-Plasticism to music, and Mondrian asserted that pieces were created under the influence of the plus-minus painting he created around the year 1915 . This austere, mathematically based music represents an important but as yet unacknowledged precedent to minimalism and has been little performed or recorded. He died at Bergen, Netherlands.\n\nDomselaer's students have included the Dutch composers Nico Schuyt and Simeon ten Holt .\n\nAt the Berlage Concourse in 1988, the Dutch pianist Kees Wieringa was one of the prize winners, playing piano music by Domselaer. He released a recording featuring the music of Domselaer in 1994 (DO Records CD, DR 001).\n\nHe married Maaike Middelkoop, with whom he had three children. His son, Jaap van Domselaer (1923–1944), was a promising young poet when he was shot while trying to escape from German-occupied Netherlands to the liberated zone in 1944 . His daughter, Matie van Domselaer, married the situationists Constant Nieuwenhuys on 13 July 1942 and Asger Jorn in 1950 .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2091985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091985", "title": "Teignmouth railway station", "text": "Teignmouth railway station\n\nTeignmouth railway station is on the Exeter to Plymouth line and serves the town of Teignmouth in Devon, England. It is down the line from and measured from via .\n\nIt is operated by Great Western Railway.\n\nThe station was opened by the South Devon Railway Company on 30 May 1846 as the terminus of its first section from Exeter. The line was extended to on 31 December 1846. The single platform was augmented by a second one late in 1848. At this time it was a broad gauge railway.\n\nTeignmouth was the original headquarters of the South Devon Railway, the station and offices being described as a \"\"primitive apology for a station\"\" and locally dubbed the 'Noah's Ark'.\n\nTrains were worked from Exeter by atmospheric power from 13 September 1847 and these were extended to Newton Abbot from 17 December 1847 until all the atmospheric trains were suspended on 9 September 1848. The atmospheric engine house was situated adjacent to the platform on the side furthest from the town, the area then being used as permanent way workshops until about 1876.\n\nThe South Devon Railway was amalgamated into the Great Western Railway on 1 February 1876. When first built the station was situated between two tunnels but the West Tunnel was opened out by June 1881 and the Eastcliffe Tunnel leading to the Sea Wall was removed by 1884, when the distinctive lattice girder bridge at the end of the Sea Wall was installed.\n\nOn 20 May 1892 the line was converted to standard gauge. The station was completely rebuilt soon after, the work being completed early in 1895. It now had a similar scale of facilities as those found at other big West Country resorts which had new stations during the last quarter of the century, and . To accommodate longer trains the westbound platform was extended in 1938 and could then handle 15 coach trains, but the opposite platform could not be extended due to the entrance to the goods yard.\n\nThe Great Western Railway in turn was nationalised into British Railways on 1 January 1948. General goods traffic at Teignmouth ceased on 14 June 1965 but coal traffic continued to be handled until 4 December 1967. This allowed the extension of the second platform to the length of Inter City trains, although this did not happen until 1981. The signal box, which was built at the west end of the westbound platform in 1896, was closed on 14 November 1986 when the new Panel Signal Box at Exeter took over control of the line.\n\nThe station was closed for two months during the repair of the railway and sea wall at Dawlish caused by the great storm of February 2014. The iron work supporting the roof was repainted during this period. Refurbishing of the pedestrian bridge between the platforms commenced in 2016.\n\n\nThe station is situated near the edge of the town centre and a short walk from the beach and South West Coast Path.\n\nIt is constructed out of dark grey rubble stone. The main entrance and booking office is on the platform used by trains to Paignton. All the main facilities, including a café, are situated on this platform. When the booking office is closed access to the station is through the gates adjacent to the wide footbridge which links the main platform to the one used by trains towards and Exeter. It is the second busiest station on the Riviera Line after Newton Abbot.\n\nTeignmouth is served by Great Western Railway local trains in both directions on an approximately hourly basis during the day - more frequent at peak times. Most trains run between and ; on Sundays the service is less frequent and most trains only run between and Paignton.\nA few Great Western Railway trains from /Cardiff or from London Paddington also call at Teignmouth as do CrossCountry services from the North of England. Most of these services, including the \"Torbay Express\" from Paddington, continue to Paignton but a few run instead to and even . At other times passengers travelling east or north catch a local train and change into main line trains at Exeter St Davids, or at Newton Abbot if travelling westwards.\n\n"}
{"id": "2091995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091995", "title": "Sudanic languages", "text": "Sudanic languages\n\nIn early 20th century classification of African languages, Sudanic was a generic term for languages spoken in the Sahel belt, from Ethiopia in the east to Senegal in the west.\n\nThe grouping was based on geographic and loose typological grounds. One of its proponents was the German linguist Carl Meinhof. Meinhof had been working on the Bantu languages, which have an elaborate noun-class system, and he labeled all languages not in Hamito-Semitic or Bushman that lacked such a noun-class system \"Sudansprachen\". There were two main branches; Eastern Sudanic was largely equivalent to Nilo-Saharan sans Nilotic, and Western Sudanic to Niger–Congo sans Bantu.\n\nWestermann, pupil of Carl Meinhof, carried out comparative linguistic research on the then Sudanic languages during the first half of the twentieth century. In his 1911 study he established a basic division between 'East' and 'West' Sudanic, roughly comparable to today's distinction of Niger–Congo and Nilo-Saharan. His 1927 collaboration with Hermann Baumann was devoted to the historical reconstruction of the West Sudanic branch. He compared his results with Meinhof's Proto-Bantu reconstructions but did not state the obvious conclusion that they were related, perhaps out of respect for his teacher. French linguists like Delafosse and Homburger, not hindered by such concerns, were quite explicit about the unity of West Sudanic and Bantu, mainly on the basis of synchronic lexicostatistical data. In his 1935 \"Character und Einteilung der Sudansprachen\", Westermann conclusively established the relationship between Bantu and West Sudanic. This marked the beginning of the establishment of the Niger–Congo family, though it was not until 1963 that Greenberg's classification of African languages solidified and popularized the concept of Niger–Congo.\n\nSome comparative linguists including Christopher Ehret have used the term \"Sudanic\" specifically within the context of Nilo-Saharan to refer to a theoretical clade (monophyletic group) within the broader Nilo-Saharan phylum. According to Ehret, Sudanic is one of two primary branches of Nilo-Saharan, the other being Komuz (which he renames \"Koman\").\n\nEhret's subclassification of Nilo-Saharan (2001)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092013", "title": "Sunrise Adams", "text": "Sunrise Adams\n\nSunrise Adams (born September 14, 1982) is an American author and pornographic actress.\n\nSunrise Adams was born in St. Louis, Missouri. She was raised in Pickton, Texas. In high school she played football, making her the first girl to play the sport in her high school's history.\n\nOn January 8, 2001, she appeared in her first pornographic film: 'More Dirty Debutantes 186' with Ed Powers. She later referred to the experience of making that film as \"nothing I want to remember\". In 2002, Adams shot an episode for the Cinemax softcore show \"The Best Sex Ever\". The episode, \"Housesitting\", also featured Keri Windsor. After years of modeling mainstream, including for Pony International, Adams had signed with Vivid Entertainment. One of her favorite directors to work with became Chi Chi LaRue. \n\nHer first movie with Vivid was \"Portrait of Sunrise\". She was nominated for Best Actress by AVN in 2003, losing to Jenna Haze. That same year, she appeared in the skateboarding movie \"Grind\". In June 2003, she appeared with Steve Hirsch on \"Your World with Neil Cavuto\". \n\nIn 2004, she won the award for Best Oral Sex Scene – Film, alongside Randy Spears, for \"Heart of Darkness\". On August 2, 2004, she appeared with Savanna Samson on Fox News's \"The O'Reilly Factor\", to promote their book \"How to Have a XXX Sex Life\". Weeks later, Adams and Samson were named in a lawsuit by Fox News producer Andrea Mackris that \"The O'Reilly Factor\" host Bill O'Reilly \"launched into a vile and degrading monologue about sex\" on the phone to Mackris immediately after the two porn stars appeared on the air. In 2005, Adams ended her contract with Vivid Entertainment to pursue a relationship with someone who Adams described as wanting her to \"be normal.\" She moved back to Texas and worked as a loan officer and in real estate.\n\nAdams returned to the porn industry and signed a contract with Vivid Entertainment in 2006. Upon her return, she decided to \"do it all\" as she expanded to include lesbian sex scenes for the first time in her career. She performed scenes with Hillary Scott and Sunny Lane. That same year, she launched her first website, which has since been taken down.\n\nAdams is the niece of porn star Sunset Thomas. As of 2003, Adams had a boyfriend, with whom she was actively investing in real estate. Adams was also pursuing a college degree in business management. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092018", "title": "Pershing Square station", "text": "Pershing Square station\n\nPershing Square is a heavy-rail subway station in the Los Angeles County Metro Rail system. It is located on Hill Street between 4th and 5th Streets, near Pershing Square in Downtown Los Angeles. This station is served by the Metro B Line (Red) and the Metro D Line (Purple) and various local bus services. The Metro J Line (Silver) heading northbound to El Monte Station stops at the street level (Olive / 5th Street). The Metro J Line heading southbound to Harbor Gateway Transit Center does not stop near the station. The station uses an island platform layout and is decorated with a neon art piece by Stephen Antonakos. The work pays tribute to the first neon sign in the United States, which was hung in 1924 in the Pershing Square area. The station installed station canopies for the stations entrance in 2014. Pershing Square is near Angels Flight and Grand Central parking..\n\nRail services: B (Red) and D (Purple) Line service hours are approximately from 5:00 AM until 12:45 AM daily. Silver Line service hours are approximately from 4:15 AM until 1:45 AM Monday- Friday & 5:00 A.M.- 1:45 A.M. Saturdays/ Sundays & Holidays.\n\nMetro bus services:\n\nOther local and commuter bus services:\n\nNote: * indicates commuter service that operates only during weekday rush hours.\n\nOUE Skycrape LA\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092024", "title": "HypoVereinsbank", "text": "HypoVereinsbank\n\nUniCredit Bank AG, better known under its brand name HypoVereinsbank (HVB), is the fifth-largest of the German financial institutions, ranked according to its total assets, and the fourth-largest bank in Germany according to the number of its employees. Its registered office is in Munich, and it is a member of the Cash Group. Since 2005, UniCredit Bank AG has been a subsidiary of UniCredit S.p.A., an Italian financial service provider headquartered in Milan. When the transfer resolution was entered in the commercial register in 2008, the equities of the minority shareholders were transferred to the principal shareholder, UniCredit S.p.A., as part of a squeeze-out. HVB thus became a wholly owned subsidiary and has not been listed on a stock exchange since that time.\n\nOperating in Germany, HVB mainly focuses on private clients business and corporate banking, customer-related capital market activities and private banking (also known as wealth management). As a mixed mortgage bank, it performs banking operations as a universal bank within the meaning of the Mortgage Banking Act and, as a mortgage bank, is also authorised to issue pfandbriefs.\n\nThe oldest roots of UniCredit Bank AG go back to Bayerische Staatsbank, which was founded during the second half of the 18th century. Inspired by the Königliche Bank Berlin, Margrave Karl Alexander von Brandenburg-Ansbach founded his own bank, the Hochfürstlich-Brandenburg-Anspach-Bayreuthische Hofbanco, using a small amount of operating capital, namely 15,000 guilders. The margrave resorted to this plan for economic reasons, as he wanted to avoid the fees charged by the foreign banks and access the aid funds provided by England for his soldier trade. The war between England and France in North America had led England to conclude contracts with German counts and request troops from them in exchange for aid funds.\n\nAfter the Napoleonic wars, the margravates of Ansbach and Bayreuth came to the Kingdom of Bavaria, and the bank became the Köngliche Bank [Royal Bank]. The end of the monarchy in Bavaria in 1918 saw the renaming of the bank to Bayerische Staatsbank. In 1971, the Bayerische Bank merged with Bayerische Vereinsbank.\n\nThe Bayerische Vereinsbank was the result of a private initiative by Munich-based and Augsburg-based court bankers, members of the nobility as well as common merchants in 1869. The \"fairy-tale\" king Ludwig II granted the initiative the concession to set up a public company limited by shares under the name \"Bayerische Vereinsbank\". Two years ago, it received permission for land-financing transactions and thus became a \"mixed institution\". Unlike most banks, Bayerische Vereinsbank was then allowed to carry out mortgage banking business operations in addition to the banking business. After the beginning of the 1950s, Bayerische Vereinsbank opened its first branch offices abroad. Through the merger with the Bavarian Statebank, one of the largest banks in Germany emerged. Bayerische Vereinsbank also included Bayerische Handelsbank AG, Süddeutsche Bodencreditbank AG and Nürnberger Hypothekenbank AG. The expansion of the banking group resulted from, amongst others, the merger with the Bankhaus Röchling (Saarbruecken) and, in 1991, with Simonbank (Düsseldorf). During the 1960s, Bayerische Vereinsbank started to expand throughout Germany and abroad, and, in 1998, was the third-largest bank in Germany.\n\nBayerische Hypotheken- und Wechsel-Bank (short form: Hypo-Bank) was founded in 1835 on the initiative of King Ludwig I of Bavaria. It was a \"mixed institution\" from the very beginning, had the right to issue Pfandbriefs since 1864, and developed into the largest mortgage bank in Germany during the 19th century. Hypo-Bank also began to expand throughout Germany and internationally in the 1960s.\n\nIn 1998, Bayerische Hypo- und Wechselbank and Bayerische Vereinsbank, two institutions which were steeped in tradition, were merged to form Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank Aktiengesellschaft.\n\nFollowing the merger, Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank followed the \"Bank of the Regions\" strategy. It expanded its network into the promising markets of Central and Eastern Europe (CEE - Central and Eastern Europe). During the period from 2000 to 2002, it completed the integration of the Austrian Bank Austria Creditanstalt and created HVB Group. Within the Group, Bank Austria Creditanstalt was responsible for the CEE countries, It, in turn, expanded in Central and Eastern Europe, and bought, amongst others, the Bulgarina bank Biochim, the Serbian Eksimbanka and the Romanian Banca Comerciala Ion Țiriac.\n\nBayerische Hypotheken- und Wechsel-Bank entered the merger with a large mortgage as it had substantial encumbrances stemming, in particular, from the allocation of mortgage loans to the new federal states. The Chairman of the Management Board of Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank - which resulted from the merger -, Albrecht Schmidt, later estimated the real-estate encumbrances, which had cropped up \"unexpectedly\", at being around DM 3.5 billion. This was followed by a bitter dispute between the Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank and the former management board chairman of Hypo-Bank, Eberhard Martini, during the course of which Mr Martini lost his post on the Supervisory Board. The public prosecutor Munich I also initiated preliminary proceedings against Eberhard Martini and additional management board members of the former Hypo-Bank, which were, however, then ceased in 2001 against the payment of fines. The fine imposed on Eberhard Martini in this conjunction amounted to DM 700,000.\n\nIn March 2003, Hypo Real Estate, the real-estate financing subsidiary of Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank, was spun off and went public. A minority share in Bank Austria Creditanstalt was also listed on the stock exchange.\n\nIn 2005, Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank was taken over by the Italian financial institution Unicredit S.p.A.. In the same year, Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank integrated Vereins- und Westbank Hamburg, which, for its part, was the result of merger of Vereinsbank in Hamburg and Westbank in 1974. \n\nVereinsbank in Hamburg was also steeped in tradition. It was founded in 1856 on the initiative of renowned merchants in Hamburg. Westbank, on the other hand, hails from Schleswig-Holstein, and was created in 1943 from a forced merger of several smaller banks in northern Germany. It was initially called \"Schleswig-Holsteinische und Westbank\", and was renamed \"Westbank\" in 1968.\n\nIn 2006, Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank took over the corporate clients portfolio of Westfalenbank AG, which had been founded in 1921 by leading companies in the Rhineland-Westphalian industrial district on Bochum. However, there was already a connection between the two institutions since Bayerische Hypotheken- und Wechselbank AG acquired a part of Westfalenbank in 1971.\n\nIn 2006, the significant majority holding in Bank Austria, the largest bank in Austria, was sold to the parent company UniCredit for €13 billion without an auction process. This subsequently led to a number of lawsuits by free HVB shareholders. The investment company Activest was sold to a UniCredit fund subsidiary called Pioneer Investments.\n\nIn January 2007, UniCredit Group announced its intention to carry out a squeeze-out at Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank. The price in this respect was established at €38.26 per share. A decision on the squeeze-out was taken at the Shareholders Meeting on 26 June 2007. Following the Shareholders Meeting, over 100 actions to set aside a shareholders' resolution by free HVB shareholders took place; this represents a record for Germany. At the Shareholders Meeting, the Bonn-based lawyer Thomas Heidel was selected as special representative pursuant to § 147 German Stock Corporation Act, who, amongst other things, was to look into possible claims for damages in conjunction with the sale of the Bank Austria shareholding UniCredit, for its part, lodged an action to set aside a shareholders' resolution in turn. During the subsequent period, the special representative lodged complaints that his work was being obstructed. On 15 September 2008, the squeeze-out adopted by the Shareholders Meeting in June 2007 was entered into the commercial register at the Register of Companies in Munich. As such, all the shares of Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank were transferred to UniCredit by force of law. The listing of shares on the stock exchanges was discontinued at short notice.\n\nIn April 2008, Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank aligned its market profile to that of UniCredit Group. The brand name HypoVereinsbank was retained; however, the previous blue logo was replaced by black lettering preceded by the red UniCredit logo.\n\nAt the same time, Bank Austria received a new logo. Thus, Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank and Bank Austria aligned their brands optically to the overall brand profile of UniCredit Group. In a second step, Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank Aktiengesellschaft was renamed UniCredit Bank AG on 15 December (amongst other reasons, due to the danger of confusion with Hypo Real Estate, which was spun off in 2003); the brand name HypoVereinsbank was, however, retained.\n\nThe integration of UniCredit CAIB AG to UniCredit Bank AG, which was announced in February 2010, was completed on 1 July 2010 with its entry in the Commercial Register. The newly founded UniCredit Bank AG - Zweigniederlassung Wien serves as an interface to the customers in Austria and CEE, and focuses on the initiation of transactions as well as the sale of CIB products. The integration constitutes a further milestone in the consolidation of the Groupwide Markets and Investment Banking in UniCredit Bank AG, and hence manages the largest share by far of the investment banking business of UniCredit Group.\n\nIn August 2014, the company announced the sale of the Direktvank subsidiary. BNP Paribas paid €354 million for the 81.4% share in DAB held by HVB.\n\nHypoVereinsbank sold its interest in PlanetHome AG in June 2015. The transfer of the equities was completed on 16 June 2015. Financial investors AP Capital Investments and Deutsche Invest Equity Partners purchased PlanetHome AG and its subsidiaries. Cooperation with PlanetHome shall remain unaffected by the sale of the equities.\n\nImportant subsidiaries of UniCredit Bank AG are:\n\nSince 2014, DAB Bank has no longer been part of the group, which also included Hypo Real Estate until 2003. As of June 2015, PlanetHome AG no longer belongs to the company. Since 2016, former subsidiary UniCredit Bank Serbia (formerly HVB Banka Srbija), UniCredit Bank Slovenia (formerly Bank Austria Creditanstalt d.d. Ljubljana), UniCredit Bank Czech Republic and Slovakia (formerly HVB Bank Czech Republic) were directly under UniCredit S.p.A., the parent company of HypoVereinsbank\n\nHypoVereinsbank is a member of the \"Association of Arts and Culture of the German Economy at the Federation of German Industries\", and is both initiator and promoter of numerous cultural projects and institutions. Its cultural commitment extends from the work of the Hypo Cultural Foundation, with the Kunsthalle in Munich, right through to the sponsorship of music festivals and international competitions (e.g. Bayreuther Festspiele, Rheingau Musik Festival, Bachfest Leipzig, Richard-Strauss-Festival and the singing competition Competizione dell'Opera). For more than 30 years, the bank has been supporting young artists with its own cultural promotion programme, \"Jugend kulturell\". This includes a series of events throughout Germany, exhibitions in the various genres of the Fine Arts and an annual competition for the \"Jugend kulturell Award.\"\n\nFurthermore, HVB hosts the \"UniCredit Festival Night\" in Munich's city centre. The annual kick-off event of the Munich Opera Festival presents performances from the world of opera, concert, dance, songs and literature. The UniCredit Festival Night is organised in cooperation with the Bavarian State Opera. The \"HypoVereinsbank Art Collection\" also plays an important role in the bank's promotion of culture. At present, it comprises over 20,000 artworks, ranging from antiquity right down to the present day, which are distributed among 600 branch offices around the world. The Collection focuses on older masterpieces (e.g. Leandro Bassano and François Boucher); classical, modern and contemporary art (e.g. Kurt Schwitters, Georg Baselitz and Gerhard Richter), light art (e.g. Dan Flavin) and photography (e.g. Henri Cartier-Bresson).\n\nIn the context of the judicial scandal involving Gustl Mollath, UniCredit is named as the legal successor of HypoVereinsbank, which failed to forward an internal audit report on customers' capital transfer to Switzerland to the public prosecutor.\n\nFrom the 1990s, HypoVereinsbank put junk properties throughout Germany on the market and helped the buyers with the financing. The true value of the properties was concealed, while the estate agents were trained and remunerated accordingly. In one case, the aggrieved parties took their case to the Federal Court of Justice of Germany, which ruled that the bank was liable for the agent's transaction.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092031", "title": "Military chaplain", "text": "Military chaplain\n\nA military chaplain ministers to military personnel and, in most cases, their families and civilians working for the military. In some cases they will also work with local civilians within a military area of operations.\n\nAlthough the term \"chaplain\" originally had Christian roots, it is generally used today in military organizations to describe all professionals specially trained to serve any spiritual need, regardless of religious affiliation. In addition to offering pastoral care to individuals, and supporting their religious rights and needs, military chaplains may also advise the executive on issues of religion, and ethics, morale and morals as affected by religion. They may also liaise with local religious leaders in an effort to understand the role of religion as a factor both in hostility and war and in reconciliation and peace.\n\nMilitary chaplains normally represent a religion or faith group but work with military personnel of all faiths and none. Some countries, like the Netherlands and Belgium, also employ humanist chaplains who offer a non-religious approach to chaplain support.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Ministry of Defence employs chaplains, but their authority comes from their sending church. Royal Navy chaplains undertake a 16-week bespoke induction and training course, including a short course at Britannia Royal Naval College, and specialist fleet time at sea alongside a more experienced chaplain. Naval chaplains called to service with the Royal Marines undertake a commando course at Commando Training Centre Royal Marines, Lympstone and if successful serve with a front-line Royal Marines unit. British Army chaplains undertake seven-weeks training at The Armed Forces Chaplaincy Centre Amport House and the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst. Royal Air Force chaplains must complete 12 weeks Specialist Entrant course at the RAF College Cranwell followed by a Chaplains' Induction Course at Armed Forces Chaplaincy Centre Amport House of a further 2 weeks.\n\nIn the United States, the term, \"nomination\", is not generally applied to the process of becoming a military chaplain. Individuals volunteer, and if they are accepted, they are \"commissioned\" as military staff officers in the Chaplain Corps. Members of the clergy who meet the qualifications for service as an officer in the military are free to apply for service with any of the three United States Chaplain Corps: the Army, Navy, and Air Force each has a Chaplain Corps, with Navy chaplains also assigned to serve with Marine Corps units, Coast Guard units, and the Merchant Marine Academy. Some clergy, like rabbis, can apply without permission from any individual or organization within their faith group; others, in faith groups that have a hierarchy established to make decisions on the postings or positions of their members, must be granted permission from the appropriate official, such as the appropriate Bishop. As the application process proceeds, and the military determines whether the applicant will meet standards in areas such as health, physical fitness, age, education, citizenship, past criminal history, and \"suitability\" for service, which includes supporting the \"free exercise of religion\" for men and women of all faiths, an \"endorsement\" from an \"endorsing agency\" that is recognized by the Department of Defense, representing one or more faith groups in the United States, will be required, in part to ensure that the separation of church and state is honored. Neither the government as a whole nor the military in particular will be put into the position of determining whether an individual is a \"bona fide\" priest, minister, rabbi, imam, etc. (The requirement for such an endorsement has been in force since 1901, and today many of the various religious endorsing agencies work together under such non-governmental voluntary umbrella groups as the National Conference on Ministry to the Armed Forces.) Although ordination is usually required for chaplain service, some \"equivalent\" status is accepted for individuals from religious groups which do not have ordination, such as the Church of Christ. Additionally, in cases where an endorsing agency is not yet established for an individual's religion, it is possible for him or her to be endorsed by the endorsing agency of another group, a process which was followed for the first Muslim chaplains in the military. In any event, this endorsement is recognized as \"necessary, but not sufficient\" for acceptance as a chaplain: in other words, the military will not accept an individual for service as a chaplain, nor allow him or her to continue to serve, without such an endorsement remaining in force; however, the decision as to whether to accept that individual remains with the military service, and the individual can be rejected for a number of reasons, including the needs of the military, even with the endorsement of an endorsing agency.\n\nThe Geneva Conventions are silent on whether chaplains may bear arms. However, the Conventions do state (Protocol I, 8 June 1977, Art 43.2) that chaplains are non-combatants: they do not have the right to participate directly in hostilities.\n\nIt is generally assumed that during World War II, chaplains were unarmed. Crosby describes an incident where a US chaplain became a trained tank gunner and was removed from the military for this \"entirely illegal, not to mention imprudent\" action. At least some British chaplains serving in the Far East, however, were armed: George MacDonald Fraser recalls \"the tall figure of the battalion chaplain, swinging along good style with his .38 on his hip\" immediately behind the lead platoon during a battalion attack. Fraser asks, \"if the padre shot [an enemy], what would the harvest be ... apart from three ringing cheers from the whole battalion?\"\nThe Reverend Leslie Hardman, the British Second Army's senior Jewish chaplain, who became well known for his work amongst the liberated prisoners after the capture of Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, was another who insisted on being armed while on active service.\n\nIn recent years, both the UK and US have required chaplains, but not medical personnel, to be unarmed in combat, although the US does not prohibit chaplains from earning marksmanship awards or participating in marksmanship competitions. Other nations, notably Norway, Denmark and Sweden, and also Australia, make it an issue of individual conscience. There are anecdotal accounts that even US and UK chaplains have at least occasionally unofficially borne weapons: Chaplain (then Captain) James D. Johnson, of the 9th Infantry Division, Mobile Riverine Force in Vietnam describes (\"Combat Chaplain: A Thirty-Year Vietnam Battle\") carrying the M-16 rifle while embedded with a combat patrol. Since 1909 US chaplains on operations have been accompanied by an armed chaplain assistant. However, perhaps on this occasion it was felt that an unarmed uniformed man would draw unwelcome attention.\n\nCaptured chaplains are not considered prisoners of war and must be returned to their home nation unless retained to minister to prisoners of war.\n\nInevitably, serving chaplains have died in action. The US Army and Marines lost 100 chaplains killed in action during World War II: the third highest casualty rate behind the infantry and the Army Air Forces. Many have been decorated for bravery in action (five have been awarded Britain's highest award for gallantry, the Victoria Cross, and nine have received the Medal of Honor). The Chaplain's Medal for Heroism is a special US military decoration given to military chaplains who have been killed in the line of duty, although it has to date only been awarded to the famous Four Chaplains, all of whom died in the sinking in 1943 after giving up their lifejackets to others.\n\nIn 2006, training materials obtained by US intelligence showed that insurgent snipers fighting in Iraq were urged to single out and attack engineers, medics, and chaplains on the theory that those casualties would demoralize entire enemy units. Among the training materials, there included an insurgent sniper training manual that was posted on the Internet. Among its tips for shooting US troops, there read: \"Killing doctors and chaplains is suggested as a means of psychological warfare.\"\n\nMilitary chaplains are often supervised by a chaplain general or chief of chaplains, on the staff of the leader of the nation's military forces. In some countries, like Israel, Canada, and South Africa, one chief of chaplains/chaplain general serves in that position for all chaplains of all religions, in all branches of the military. In many other countries, such as France, there is a separate chaplain general/chief of chaplains for each faith group represented by chaplains. In other countries, like the United States, there is one chaplain general/chief of chaplains for each branch of the military. So, for example, in the United States, there is an Army, Navy, and Air Force chief of chaplains. They meet on as representatives to the Armed Forces Chaplains Board, to discuss issues that cross service lines, but each reports as a staff officer of his or her service, to the Chief of Staff of the Army or Air Force, or the Chief of Naval Operations of the Navy. (In the United States, Navy chaplains serve Navy, Marine Corps and Coast Guard personnel. Navy chaplains also assigned to the Merchant Marine Academy, for Merchant Marine personnel.)\n\nThe International Military Chiefs of Chaplains Conference grew out of a conference NATO chiefs of chaplains organized by the United States European Command (USEUCOM) in 1990. It welcomes any chief of chaplains (or \"chaplain general\", an equivalent term used by many nations).\n\nCatholic chaplains are generally organized into military ordinariates, such as the Archdiocese for the Military Services, USA. Potential Roman Catholic chaplains must seek permission from their diocesan bishop or religious superior to serve as a military chaplain. While serving as a chaplain, the priest or deacon remains incardinated in his home diocese, but is temporarily under the direction of the prelate of the ordinariate for the duration of his service.\n\nEach of the various Protestant Christian denominations may set its own requirements for certification as a minister.\n\nBesides the Military Rabbinate of Israel, today, military rabbis serve throughout several countries of the world, most notably in the US military forces, and various European armies.\nSince the rise of the Christian religion in Europe and worldwide, as a matter of course Christians fought against Christians over and over again. During World War I, for the first time a substantial number of Jews served on all sides of the war, and so did military rabbis. As a result of 18th and 19th centuries` emancipation, \"military field rabbis\" served on all fronts and in all combating nations.\n\nBadges and insignia vary widely across nations and services; though generally include some form of symbol specific to the individual chaplain's religion.\n\nIn addition to badges and insignias for individual chaplains, certain nations, including the United States, fly a Church or Worship Pennant during the time a chaplain leads a religious worship service, especially on ships at sea. On United States Navy ships it is the only pennant that flies above the United States flag.\n\nRoman Catholic military chaplains served in the Argentine armed forces since the early nineteenth century, and wore officers´ uniforms and ranks.\nHowever, the use of these was discontinued in the 1970s in the Army and the Air Force, and in the 2000s in the Navy, due to allegations of some chaplains supposedly abusing their military position and thus discouraging their subordinates to approach them when in need. Nevertheless, chaplains continue to wear combat uniform (but no rank insignia) when accompanying the troops in field operations or exercises, and are still considered as a part of the officers corps.\nNo specific provisions exist for the spiritual support to non-Catholics.\n\nThe Armenian Army has a sponsored chaplaincy program which is jointly funded by the Ministry of Defence of Armenia and the Armenian Apostolic Church. More than 50 clergymen serve as chaplains in the Armed Forces of Armenia. They often organize religious programs and offer opportunities for prayer, especially before each military exercise conducted by the armed forces. The clergy program was created in 1997 on the initiative of Karekin I and the directive of Minister of Defense Vazgen Sargsyan. A combined clergy company will usually take part in the quinquennial Independence Day Parade on Republic Square. All military chaplains are commissioned army officers.\n\nChaplains in the Australian Defence Force (ADF) have almost the same status as chaplains in the British armed services. Chaplains in the Australian Army and Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) are commissioned officers and wear the uniform of officers of their particular branch of the services as well as the rank to which they are qualified. Chaplains in the Australian Army and the Royal Australian Air Force begin their commission as a Captain (Army) or Flight Lieutenant (RAAF) respectively. There are five levels or \"divisions\" for the seniority of chaplains in the Australian Army and Air Force with each division corresponding to a worn rank. The highest \"division\" is Division 5 who are \"principal chaplains,\" of which there are three per service representing the three major Christian denominations: Catholic, Anglican and Protestant. The principal chaplains of the Army wear the rank of brigadier and in the RAAF, air commodore. Australian Army chaplains, whatever their rank, are mostly referred to as \"Padre\" by officers and soldiers alike. The title is also widely used in the RAAF for their chaplains.\n\nLike chaplains in the Australian Army and RAAF, Royal Australian Navy (RAN) chaplains are commissioned officers and wear the uniform of an RAN officer, but like chaplains in the British Royal Navy (RN) they do not wear a rank. Rather they wear the same cross and anchor emblem worn by RN chaplains on their shoulder rank slides and do not have gold braided rings or executive loops on their winter sleeve coat or summer shoulder boards. Like other chaplains in the ADF, Navy chaplains have five divisions of seniority. Whilst Australian Navy chaplains do not wear rank, they are accorded a certain rank for protocol and ceremonial occasions and for saluting purposes. Division 1, 2 and 3 Australian Navy chaplains are accorded the rank and status as commander (lieutenant colonel equivalent in the Australian Army). Division 4 Australian Navy chaplains are accorded the rank and status of captain (equiv. of Colonel). Division 5 Australian Navy chaplains are \"principal chaplains,\" and these three chaplains, representing the three major Christian denominations: Catholic, Anglican and Protestant, are accorded the rank and status of commodore. The title \"Padre\" for chaplains is less common and not officially encouraged in the Royal Australian Navy, although it is known to be used by some sailors and Navy chaplains in preference to the more formal title of \"chaplain\" or form of address towards an officer such as \"sir.\" Like British Royal Navy chaplains, Royal Australian Navy chaplains wear a slightly different peaked cap to other Navy officers which apparently was designed by Winston Churchill.\n\nIn the Australian Defence Force (ADF), the heads of military chaplaincy for those Christian denominations and of the Jewish faith that have an official association with the ADF, are also members of the ADF's \"Religious Advisory Committee\" (RAC). With respect to the Catholic and Anglican churches, their Bishops are members of RAC and they and the other members of RAC have the status of a two star General (US) or Major General (Australian Army), or Rear Admiral (RAN) or Air Vice-Marshal (RAAF).\n\nThe Anglican and Roman Catholic strands of Australian Defence Force Chaplaincy have websites that explain their church's mission within the Australian Defence Force. While the Protestant strand does not have a website, one of their chaplains has a representative blog site.\n\nBelgium has chaplains for its army, and is mainly a Catholic chaplaincy.\n\nThe Canadian Armed Forces Chaplaincy has approximately 192 Regular Force chaplains and 145 Reserve Force chaplains representing the Protestant, Roman Catholic, Muslim and Jewish faiths. The mission of this Branch is to \"support and enhance the effectiveness of the CF as a whole – its leadership, the individual men and women who serve and their families – through the provision of comprehensive religious and spiritual support, advice, and care.\" The vision of the Chaplaincy is to \"be an operationally relevant Chaplaincy that supports and cares for all CF personnel and their families, wherever they live and serve, empowering them spiritually and morally to meet the demands of military service.\"\n\nTheir role is to:\nWhen offering prayers during parades and ceremonies, it is customary that the order to remove headdress be given to those on parade. In November 2004, Court Martial Appeal Court of Canada ruled that this order was \"not lawful\" since it unjustifiably required all attendees to show participation in a prayer that may not believe. Following this ruling, non-believers are now permitted to retain their headdress just like Jews and Sikhs do in accordance with their faith.\n\nThere are 95 Church of Denmark military chaplains associated the Danish armed forces; serving all personnel regardless of their faith position. The chaplains are outside the ranking system, and are therefore equal to all soldiers. They are allowed to wear uniforms and a sidearm for self-defense.\n\nDuring the Second World War or to Finland the Winter War, Continuation War, and Lapland War Finland was unique among German allied Axis powers in including Jewish soldiers in its military as well as having field chaplaincy services available for them.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, the cloak of Saint Martin of Tours, (\"cappa Sancti Martini\"), one of the most sacred relics of the Frankish kings, would be carried everywhere the king went, even into battle, as a holy relic upon which oaths were sworn. The clergyman who served as custodian for the cloak in its reliquary was called a \"capellānus\", and, by extension, all clergymen who officiated in reliquaries, sanctuaries, or chapels were eventually called \"cappellāni\". This eventually gave \"chapelain\" in Old French and was borrowed into English.\n\nSaint Louis was the king who gave legal status to the military chaplains, since chaplains serving under their lord in the Crusades were the first to be militarized. In 1531, during the Battle of Kappel, the Swiss reformist Huldrych Zwingli became the very first Protestant military chaplain to be killed on the battlefield.\n\nThe modern French \"Aumônerie militaire\" (military chaplaincy) was created and instituted by a July 8, 1880 Act of Parliament, which sets forth how the chaplaincy functions with regard to the Catholic, Protestant, and Jewish faiths. The Secularism Act (1905), which establishes a strict separation of church and state in the French government, does not however apply to the military. The defense minister appoints three command-level military chaplains—one per faith—in charge of all chaplains. The chaplains, serving in the army, are assigned by one of these three military chaplains. The first Muslim chaplain-general, Abdelkader Arbi, was commissioned in 2006.\n\nFrench military chaplains wear a uniform since World War II, but have no rank or rank insignia. The modern military chaplaincy is rooted in that war, where military chaplains were incorporated in almost every Free French Forces fighting unit and made up of personnel from England, France, or any of its imperial domains. After the war, military chaplains were sent to occupation zones in Germany and Austria.\n\nIn the 1950s, military chaplains were sent in the French Union's territories, including Indochina and Algeria. In 1954, pastor Tissot was one of the last paratrooper volunteers to jump over the besieged Dien Bien Phu fortified camp in northern Vietnam. On May 7, he was made prisoner of the Viet Minh and sent to a re-education camp, deep in the jungle.\n\nSince 1984, French military chaplains are involved in every military operation—including the Gulf War—from Rapid Reaction Force (\"Force d'Action Rapide\") units to navy ships.\n\nIn France, the existence of military chaplains has come under debate because of the separation of church and state; however, their position has been maintained .\n\nInitially only Christian chaplains worked in German armies. Only after the French Revolution did Jews become citizens with equal rights in Germany for the first time. An integration of Jewish soldiers within the army gave the German Reich the opportunity to recognize the Jewish urge to fight for the German “Fatherland”. The times of common Christian suppression and supremachy status changed and more and more German Jews served in the liberal French Armies of the German territories under French influence, e.g. in the Bavarian army.\n\nIn Prussia, king Frederick the Great also showed religious tolerance, but in case of the Jews he exerted intolerance. The Jews were divided into six classes, and only the privileged first class had \"de facto\" equal rights as citizens. Very few Jewish soldiers in the Prussian army of the 18th century left historical traces, e.g. Konstantin Nathanel of Salomon, who was promoted to general in 1760. Although the Jewish presence in Germany is older than Christianity, the first \"field rabbinat\" was introduced during World War I. The German Kaiserreich appointed c. 30 military rabbis. Field rabbi Dr. Leo Baeck wrote the “Israelite Field Prayer Book”.\n\nGermany had a tradition of appointing Catholic and Evangelical military chaplains and Jewish military field rabbis. This was continued in the Army and Navy of the Wehrmacht, for the Roman Catholic and Protestant denominations only. A total of 95% of all Germans being Christian, German soldiers during Nazi times continued to belong to the churches and had the words \"Gott mit uns\" (\"God with us\") on the belt buckles of every Army and Navy enlisted men and non-commissioned officers. Despite this proportion of Christians, the totalitarian national socialistic government of the German Reich tried to weaken the authority and influence of the churches over their German adherents. Besides the international \"Jewish question\", the international character of the Catholic church was another challenge. A few Catholics who devoutly resisted the Nazis, suffered imprisonment and hardship. The case was solved by the Reichskonkordat (1933) between the Holy See and Nazi Germany. The government of the German Reich early established an pastoral ministry for the German Army and the Reichskonkordat settled the appointment of an Army bishop. Therefore, the military chaplains could more freely operate out of the Catholic hierarchy. Franz Justus Rarkowski, S.M., became ordained the Catholic military Field Bishop (\"Feldbischof\") of Nazi Germany in 1938 until 1945.\n\nGerman military chaplains who served the Wehrmacht were part of the German mainstream and lent the Nazi war effort legitimacy. The Christian military chaplains served between strange poles. While the Nazi ideology was at its core pagan (the elite SS units never allowed chaplains), 95% of Germans were baptized Christians. German soldiers during the Nazi era continued to belong to the churches and had the words \"Gott mit uns\" (\"God with us\") on their belt buckles. “Being a chaplain in the German army had always been a prestigious position and the Nazis wanted people who represented that old military tradition (..) and not sow discord or division. They wanted people who were not troublemakers.\" The German military chaplains mostly wanted to bring the word of the Christian God to men in the field and to deliver the sacraments, make their families proud and serve their country. “The motives of the chaplains were not unusual, (..) their noble, personal and professional motives turned them into a legitimating force in a war of annihilation.” Military chaplains in Nazi Germany were rigorously screened. First, names were put on the desks of the local civilian bishops, and then the names had to be approved by the according ministry for church affairs. Eventually the names were cleared by the military's chaplaincy office and the Gestapo (\"Secret State Police\").\n\nThroughout the Third Reich period, only the Army and Navy had military chaplains. When needed, other branches of the armed forces acquired chaplains from the Army or Navy or from nearby parish. In the Heer (Army), military chaplains were organized into Group 3b (Pastoral Group) of the General Army Office under the Army High Command. In mid 1935, four groups of military chaplains were introduced. In 1936, similar groups were introduced for the Kriegsmarine although the evolution over time was different. The groups are as follow.\n\nGerman military chaplains did not get into the ordinary military rank system, but received privileges like any other regular officers. Army chaplains had four different types of clothing:\n\nNo weapon was permitted to be carried by chaplains, but one photographic evidence shows a chaplain with a pistol holster on his left waist.\n\nFor the headdresses of the Army chaplains, the most common were:\n\nAll the buttons, national eagles, cockades, Gothic crosses, and cap chinstraps were silver for military chaplains and gold for Field Bishops.\nThe collar patches had violet underlay and violet piping for Catholic chaplains, and field grey underlay and violet piping for Protestant (Evangelist) chaplains.\n\nFor the Kriegsmarine, the uniform was identical to naval jacket of regular officers, but without sleeve laces and with chaplain collar patches. The collar patches were different to those of the Army. Two-prong officer's belt or brocade belt could be worn.\n\nAlthough the official regulation states that military chaplains had to wear golden pectoral cross, there were two standard-issue crosses that were worn:\n\nPhotographic evidences show numerous variety of pectoral crosses worn by German military chaplains during World War II.\n\nOftentimes, German military chaplains were issued an armband with a red cross sign and violet stripe to show their neutrality on the battlefield. This was called \"Armbinde mit Neutralitätsabzeichen \" (Armband with Neutrality Sign).\n\nAmong other things, military chaplains also wore standard liturgical vestments such as chasuble, cope, and stole.\n\nGerman religious constitutional law and its state-church law is involved in the democratic national identity of modern Germany, especially in various articles of the German Constitution. Initially, a \"military-chaplaincy\" contract was only signed between the state and the Protestant Church, but was extended to all other religious communities for reasons of parity. Furthermore, the 1930s Reichskonkordat between the Holy See and Germany is still in force. In Germany, military chaplains of the Bundeswehr have no rank but have a special civilian status as part of the armed forces. Military rabbis or chaplain were banned during Hitler’s rule and were reintroduced to the German military on May 29, 2020, by the Germany Parliament into law since 1957. It is the first expansion of the law on the military pastoral care.\n\nThe Military Rabbinate is a unit in the Israel Defense Forces that provides religious services for military personnel, Jewish and non-Jewish, and makes decisions on issues of religion and military affairs. The Military Rabbinate is headed by the Chief Military Rabbi, who carries the rank of a Brigadier General.\n\nThe Military Rabbinate constitutes the body responsible for religious institutions in the military. In every unit or military base there are Military Rabbinate military personnel assigned responsibility for conducting or coordinating religious services, overseeing Kashrut laws of the kitchen, and the maintenance of the synagogue and religious supplies. Actively serving military personnel can request Military Rabbinate representatives to perform marriage ceremonies and Brit milah for baby boys. The unit also oversees the legal and religious certification of marriages and divorces of individuals during their military service.\n\nThe Military Rabbinate is responsible for treating the bodies of soldiers in accordance with religious law, including the identifications and post-mortem treatment of bodies, and conducting military funerals. The Military Rabbinate also coordinates the burial of enemy soldiers and the exhuming of bodies in conjunction with prisoner exchanges.\n\nThe Military Rabbinate was founded in 1948 by Rabbi Shlomo Goren, who headed it until 1968.\n\nThe Netherlands has chaplains of Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, Muslim, Hindu, and humanist faiths, provided by the De Diensten Geestelijke Verzorging (DGV) or the Spiritual Care Services. Chaplains are trained in Vormingscentrum Landgoed Beukbergen.\n\n The chaplain service in Norway is called the Feltprestkorpset, or the Field Priest Corps, and is a joint Norwegian Armed Forces service.\n\nPrior to 1968, chaplains wore badges of rank as commissioned officers.\n\nSince 1968, however, all chaplains have been senior officers and accorded the protocol status of colonel / captain (navy). They carry the military rank of chaplain and the rank insignia, which is unique to the Chaplains Service, comprises a Chi Rho monogramme surrounded by a triangle. The monogramme represents the first two letters of Christ in Greek. It originates from the days of Constantine, the first Emperor of Rome to grant religious freedom to Christians. His own conversion to the Christian faith was initiated by a dream in which the Chi-Rho monogramme appeared to him. The triangle surrounding the monogramme is the symbolic representation of the Holy Trinity.\n\nDuring the vision of the monogramme, Constantine heard the Latin words \"in hoc signo vinces\". The English translation of these Latin words is: \"In this sign, you will conquer\". This is the motto of the Chaplains Service and forms part of the Corps Badge.\n\nIn 1998, after working as chaplain general in exile for the ANC, the African National Congress, during the fight against apartheid, Fumanekile Gqiba was appointed as the first black chaplain general for SANDF, the South African National Defense Force. In 2004, Major General Gqiba left the military to accept his appointment as South African Ambassador to Israel.\n\nIn the SANDF Chaplain Service, the Hindu faith is represented by a Regular Force chaplain. The rank is Cpln (Vipra) and the mode of address Vipra. The rank insignia is a deepa (lamp) with flame. This is the symbolic representation of enlightenment, the life objective of all Hindus.\n\nMuslims do not have Regular Force chaplains in the SANDF because they are small in number. They are however served by part-time workers through the Chaplains Service of the SANDF and are addressed according to their religious customs as imams.\n\nChristian chaplains are generally referred to and addressed as Padre. They may however, be addressed according to the practice of their religious bodies e.g., Father, Pastor, Umfundisi (Zulu and Xhosa), Moruti (Sotho), Dominee (Afrikaans) etc. The official written form of address is \"Cpln\" (for chaplain) followed by the appropriate ecclesiastical title of the respective chaplain e.g., Cpln (Rev), Cpln (Fr), Cpln (Pastor), Cpln, etc.\n\nAlong with chaplains from many other nations in the southern region of the continent of Africa, South African chaplains participate in SARMCA, the \"South Africa Regional Military Chaplains Association\", which is a component organization of SADC, the \"Southern African Development Community\".\nIn recent years, military chaplains have taken a more important role in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Since the Russian military intervention in Ukraine (2014–present), many Ukrainian citizens with a religious background have volunteered to serve in the armed forces as chaplains to certain battalions and regiments in the Ukrainian Ground Forces fighting in the Anti-Terrorist Operation Zone during the ongoing War in Donbass. The purpose of utilizing these chaplains, according to Prime Minister of Ukraine Arseniy Yatsenyuk was to needed to boost Ukrainian army morale during the conflict. Originally, the Ukrainian Catholic Church designated around 70 priests to work with their designated units, all of which came from the Catholic, Orthodox and Protestant faiths. The Center of Military Chaplaincy of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church is a notable chaplaincy organization in Ukraine that provides counseling and pastoral care to officers, soldiers and their families. Today, a chaplain is not an official military position, but rather a volunteer service. A notable Ukrainian military chaplain is Ivan Hrynokh, who served with the Nachtigall Battalion during the Second World War.\n\nThe first English military-oriented chaplains were priests on board proto-naval vessels during the eighth century AD. Land based chaplains appeared during the reign of King Edward I, although their duties included jobs that today would come under the jurisdiction of military engineers and medical officers. A priest attached to a feudal noble household would follow his liege lord into battle. In 1796 the Parliament of Great Britain passed a Royal Warrant that established the Army Chaplains' Department in the British Army. The Department was awarded its \"Royal\" prefix in 1919 in recognition of their chaplains' service during World War I.\n\nThe current form of military chaplain dates from the era of the First World War. A chaplain provides spiritual and pastoral support for service personnel, including the conduct of religious services at sea or in the field. In the Royal Navy chaplains are traditionally addressed by their Christian name, or with one of many nicknames (Bish; Sin-Bosun; Devil Dodger; Sky-Pilot etc.). In the British Army and Royal Air Force, chaplains are traditionally referred to (and addressed) as \"padre\" or as Sir/Ma'am (although not the latter in the RAF). Many Padres in the British Army will insist on not being referred to as \"Sir/Ma'am\" as they are explicitly outside of the chain of command in the units to which they have been attached, which emphasises their pastoral role rather than a command position.\n\nIn the Royal Navy chaplains have no rank other than \"chaplain\" while in the British Army they hold commissioned relative rank but are universally referred to as Padre. On the foundation of the Royal Air Force Chaplains' Branch an attempt was made to amalgamate these differing systems creating \"Relative Rank\", where rank is worn but without executive authority. In practice chaplains of all three services work in similar ways using what influence and authority they have on behalf of those who consult them or seek their advice.\n\nDuring World War II the head of chaplaincy in the British Army was an (Anglican) chaplain-general, (a major-general), who was formally under the control of the Permanent Under-Secretary of State. An assistant chaplain-general was a chaplain 1st class (full colonel) and a senior chaplain was a chaplain 2nd class (lieutenant colonel).\n\nAll chaplains are commissioned officers and wear uniform. British Army and Royal Air Force chaplains bear ranks and wear rank insignia, but Royal Navy chaplains do not, wearing a cross and a special version of the officers' cap badge as their only insignia.\n\nChaplains in the armed forces were previously all Christian or Jewish. The first Jewish chaplain was appointed in 1892 and some 20 to 30 were commissioned during World War II. Until recent times, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) has employed only Christian chaplains, with the Jewish community providing an honorary chaplain under long-standing arrangements, although Jewish chaplains have served in the Territorial Army. In October 2005 the Ministry of Defence appointed four chaplains to the military; one each from the Buddhist, Hindu, Muslim and Sikh faith communities. The Museum of Army Chaplaincy holds information and archive material relating to the history of the Army Chaplains' Department.\n\nIn the era before call signs the radio \"appointment title\" for the Padre was \"Sky pilot\".\n\nIn the United States, military chaplains have an officer's rank based on their years of service and promotion selection from among their peers. Chaplains serving in the US Armed Forces wear the uniform of their respective branch of service, and normally wear clerical attire only during the performance of a religious service. The position of rank and chaplain faith group insignia varies in each military department and may vary significantly from one type of uniform to another within a military department. The US Army, Air Force, and Navy \"(as a component of the Department of the Navy the Marine Corps is supplied by USN chaplains)\" require an 'ecclesiastical endorsement' from the candidate's faith group (which in the case of the Navy must be one registered with the DoD).\n\nThe Civil Air Patrol, the volunteer Auxiliary of the USAF, also has chaplains, who must meet the same standards for appointment as active-duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard chaplains. They wear the same insignia as USAF chaplains and can be called upon to assist Air Force chaplains.\n\nUS military chaplains, both individuals and in groups, have been involved in a number of controversies. Complaints have been made against chaplains for mandatory prayers, coercion, and using government money to promote Evangelical Christianity. Groups representing atheists have pushed for the appointment of someone representing their viewpoint to the chaplaincy. Individual cases include that of Air Force Lt. Col. Garland Robertson, discharged in 1993 after expressing political opinions in a letter to the \"Abilene Reporter-News\" and Navy Chaplain Lt. Gordon Klingenschmitt who, against direct orders to him personally, as well as military law and tradition, protested openly and publicly \"while in uniform\" against military policies which he believed restricted the free exercise of his religion.\n\nThe constitutionality of the US chaplaincy has been the subject of legal challenges and scholarly dispute. One appellate case, \"Katcoff v. Marsh\" (1985) upheld the system as a permissible attempt to support service members in the \"free exercise\" of their religious beliefs, though others have described the details of the chaplaincy system as violations of the legal principles that the federal government maintain neutrality and avoid becoming entangled in religious affairs.\n\nMore than 400 chaplains have died while serving in the US military.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092033", "title": "Princess Helena College", "text": "Princess Helena College\n\nPHC is a co-educational independent day and boarding school for students aged 11 to 18 in Preston near Hitchin in Hertfordshire, England.\n\nSet in 100 acres of beautiful Hertfordshire countryside, Princess Helena College combines academic excellence with a wide range of co-curricular opportunities and outstanding individual attention. \n\nThe school is housed in a Queen Anne country house, formerly known as Temple Dinsley, which was redesigned by Edwin Lutyens, at the same time as the gardens were designed by his great friend, Gertrude Jekyll. The house is listed Grade II* on the National Heritage List for England, and the gardens and landscaped park are listed Grade II* on the Register of Historic Parks and Gardens.\n\nPrincess Helena College was founded by Miss Sophia Williams in 1820 for daughters of officers who had served in the Napoleonic Wars and daughters of Anglican clergy. It was originally established in Mornington Crescent, London, before moving to Regent's Park and then Ealing. The school moved to Temple Dinsley in 1935. In 1874, Princess Helena, Queen Victoria's third daughter, became President of the college, and the school has enjoyed royal patronage ever since.\nFrom 2019, the college will accept boys at age 11 and age 16.\n\nEach new pupil is allocated to one of three Houses: Gloucester, Windsor or York. The House system offers a platform for pupils of varying ages to work together, whether it be choreographing a House dance or researching for public speaking. House points are awarded for each event and students can also earn points for excellent pieces of work.\n\nThere is one Boarding House, which is situated in the Main School. Year 11 and Sixth Form students have single rooms while all other year groups share rooms with a number of peers depending on their age. There are common rooms, kitchens and other spaces for relaxation and games. Boarders have access to music practice rooms and sports facilities in evenings, together with a varied range of weekend activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092041", "title": "Fernwood Botanical Garden and Nature Preserve", "text": "Fernwood Botanical Garden and Nature Preserve\n\nThe Fernwood Botanical Garden and Nature Preserve is an arboretum, botanical garden, and nature preserve located at 13988 Range Line Road in Buchanan Township, Michigan. It covers an area of . It is open to the public; an admission fee is charged.\n\nFernwood originally began as the home of Kay and Walter Boydston, who purchased its first in 1941, and became a public garden in 1964, through the efforts of Lawrence and Mary Plym. Additional land purchases have increased the site to , providing space for the arboretum, prairie restoration, and newer gardens.\n\nThe Garden is located on the St. Joseph River and contains landscape gardens (8 acres), woodland nature preserve (50 acres), an arboretum of trees and shrubs from temperate regions around the world (40 acres, started in 1971), and restored tallgrass prairie (5 acres, started in 1976), as well as a conservatory (greenhouse) featuring more than 100 kinds of tropical ferns.\n\nThe landscape gardens include a Japanese \"dry\" garden designed by Ben Oki (1979), a hosta garden with dawn redwood and Ginkgo, a tufa rock garden started in the 1950s, a fern garden with more than 50 types of hardy ferns, a boxwood garden, a lilac garden (1940s), a lily pond (1977), and an herb garden featuring over 200 types of herbs.\n\nThe nature center displays exhibits about the ecosystems and animals of Fernwood and items of seasonal interest, as well as live animals including an active beehive and local reptiles and amphibians. Environmental education programs are offered year round.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092044", "title": "7th Street/Metro Center station", "text": "7th Street/Metro Center station\n\n7th Street/Metro Center is a subway station in the Los Angeles Metro Rail system. It is located in the Financial District of Downtown Los Angeles at the intersection of 7th Street and Flower Street.\n\nThe station is served by the light rail A Line and E Line, heavy rail B Line and D Line, and by the bus rapid transit J Line. The A Line and E Line currently have their downtown terminus at this station. Many bus routes also serve the station.\n\nThis is one of only two stations in the entire system that has underground side platforms, the other being the Wilshire/Vermont station.\n\nThe station was the first underground station in the Metro system, and consists of three underground levels. The main concourse is on the first level down, the light rail side platforms are on the second level down, while the heavy rail island platform is on the third level down. A small first level mezzanine connects the light rail side platforms. The Metro Silver Line stops at the street level next to the station's entrances. The station has direct access to The Bloc Shopping Mall (formerly known as Macy's Plaza) with a pedestrian-friendly entrance from the mall directly to the subway station.\n\nMetro spent nearly $2 million worth of enhancements to 7th Street/Metro Center station as part of the Expo Line project which was completed weeks before the Metro Expo Line began service to La Cienega/Jefferson Station. This enhancement included a new dispatch booth and improved signage in the station.\n\nA Line hours are approximately from 4:00 AM until 1:00 AM daily. Red and Purple Line hours are approximately from 5:00 AM until 12:00 AM daily. E Line hours are approximately from 4:00 AM until 2:00 AM daily. Silver Line operates 24 hours a day.\n\nMetro Bus lines 20, 51, 52, 60 (local), 351 (limited), 442, 460, 487, and 489 (express), 720 and 760 (rapid) stop near the station entrances at 7th and Hope streets, 7th and Flower streets and 7th and Figueroa Streets.\n\nSanta Monica's Big Blue Bus express Line 10, and LADOT Dash shuttles Routes D, E, and F also stops at the 7th Street/Metro Center Station. Foothill Transit Commuter Express lines 493, 495, 497, 498, 499, 699 serve stops adjacent to the station on 7th and Figueroa Streets.\n\nWhen the Regional Connector is complete and opens for service in 2021, this station will no longer be the terminus for the Blue and E Lines. Instead, the rail lines will continue northeast to the rebuilt Little Tokyo/Arts District station on the current Gold Line. In addition, a complete restructuring of service will commence as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092046", "title": "Transportation Corps", "text": "Transportation Corps\n\nThe Transportation Corps was established 31 July 1942 by Executive Order 9082. The Transportation Corps is a combat service support branch of the U.S. Army, and was headquartered at Fort Eustis, Virginia, but moved to Fort Lee, Virginia in 2010. It is also one of three U.S. Army logistics branches, the others being the Quartermaster Corps and the Ordnance Corps. The Transportation Corps is responsible for the movement of personnel and material by truck, rail, air, and sea. Its motto is \"Spearhead of Logistics,\" and it is currently the second largest branch of the Army.\n\nThe officer in charge of the branch for doctrine, training, and professional development purposes is the Chief of Transportation (COT). The current Chief of Transportation is Brigadier General Jered P. Helwig.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, transportation proved to be an integral part of military logistics through the organization of railroads as a viable and efficient means of military transportation. The US Army centralized the management of rail into the United States Military Railroad (USMRR). The Army Quartermaster purchased eight City-class ironclads on the Mississippi River in February 1862, a full month before the \"USS Monitor\" and \"CSS Virginia\" set sail. City Point, Virginia in 1864 would become the largest port operation in the Western Hemisphere in 1864. By 1864, five of the nine divisions in the Quartermaster Department dealt exclusively with transportation. A substantial number of battles were won because of the field commander's ability to swiftly and effectively move troops and supplies. Most wounded soldiers were carried away in a banana-shaped cart called a gondola.\n\nDuring the Spanish–American War, the task of mobilizing and deploying a largely volunteer force to Cuba and the Philippines magnified the need for a separate transportation service within the Quartermaster Department. Army transporters worked with both the civilian railroads and the maritime industry to pull together a successful intermodal operation.\n\nThe American Expeditionary Force that deployed to France during World War I emphasized the need for a single transportation manager. William W. Atterbury, a former railroad executive, was commissioned as a brigadier general and appointed as the Director-General of Transportation and a separate Motor Transport Corps of the National Army was established to manage trucks on 15 August 1918. The United States Army School for Truck Drivers had been established by 9 July 1918; and the Transportation Corps of the AEF was abolished after the war, The M.T.C. subsequently conducted Transcontinental Motor Convoys in 1919 and 1920.\n\nOn 9 March 1942 the Transportation Service was established as part of the Services of Supply, and on 31 July 1942 the Transportation Service became the Transportation Corps. In March 1942, the transportation functions were consolidated into the Transportation Division of the newly created Services of Supply. By the end of the war the Transportation Corps had moved more than 30 million soldiers within the continental United States; and 7 million soldiers plus 126 million tons of supplies overseas. From the beginning in England in late May 1942, the Transportation Corps operations in the ETO were directed by Major General Frank S. Ross who had been selected by Maj. Gen. John C. H. Lee, Commanding General, Services of Supply (after the D-Day Invasion called the Communications Zone, or Com-Z), European Theater of Operations. \n\nOne of the greatest feats of the Transportation Corps, via the Military Railway Service, was the rebuilding of France's shattered railroad network after D-Day and the transportation of 1,500 locomotives and 20,000 railway cars specially built for the lighter French track system starting With D-Day +38. To speed the process, and avoid delays caused by French channel ports and docks destroyed by the retreating Germans, the Transportation Corps brought the heavy railroad stock across the channel and across the beaches in specially built LSTs.\n\nAs allied forces rapidly advanced across France in the summer of 1944, a special transportation operation nicknamed the Red Ball Express was carried out. The Red Ball Express provided around the clock truck convoys from allied held ports to supply troops on the front in a giant, one-way loop. There were other lesser known truck-route express operations: the Green Diamond Express operated out of Cherbourg due south, to serve the forces advancing on Brittany and Brest. Later the White Ball Highway Express operated out of Le Havre to the same depots served by the Red Ball. Later still, the A B C Highway moved men and supplies from the Belgian port of Antwerp to the front. The story of the Red Ball Express was told in the 1950s movie \"Red Ball Express\". There was a short lived television series in the early 1970s named \"Roll Out\" which focused on the experiences of a fictional African American motor transportation unit involved with the Red Ball Express.\n\nThe Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union extended from 1945 into 1991, spanning the Gulf War. When the Soviet Union cordoned off the city of Berlin in 1948, the Transportation Corps played a vital role in sustaining the city. Two years later, on 28 June 1950, President Harry S. Truman established the Transportation Corps as a permanent branch of the Army.\n\nDuring the Korean War, the Transportation Corps kept the UN Forces supplied through three winters. By the time the armistice was signed, the Transportation Corps had moved more than 3 million soldiers and 7 million tons of cargo.\n\nThe Vietnam War saw the most diversified assortment of transportation units ever assembled. For over a decade the Transportation Corps provided continuous support for American and allied forces through an unimproved tropical environment using watercraft, amphibians, motor trucks and Transportation Corps aircraft. The enemy threat to convoys required a unique solution - gun trucks.\n\nOn 31 July 1986, the Transportation Corps was inducted into the U.S. Army Regimental System.\n\nIn 1990 the Transportation Corps faced one of its greatest challenges with the onset of the Gulf War. During Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert Storm, the Transportation Corps working out of ports on three continents demonstrating its ability to deploy and sustain massive forces.\n\nOperations in Somalia, Rwanda, Haiti, Bosnia, and Iraq have also seen the deployment of large numbers of transportation units.\n\nWhen the coalition forces invaded Afghanistan, the Transportation Corps opened up the air line of communication into the country and until 2008, a single movement control battalion managed all logistics in Regional Command-East. As the number of brigade combat teams increased in Afghanistan in 2006, the Transportation Corps began ground convoy operations.\n\nThe 143rd Transportation Command opened the port and supported the push to Baghdad in March 2003. After Baghdad fell in April, the maneuver operation matured into a sustainment operation with a hub and spoke supply line. Once the enemy began attacking convoys, the truck drivers responded with an age old solution of hardening trucks with steel and adding machine guns thus making gun trucks and convoy security a permanent part of Transportation doctrine. No matter how great the threat, the Transportation Corps delivered the goods. During Operation New Dawn, the Transportation Corps was responsible for retrograding all the equipment out of Iraq by the December 2012 deadline.\n\nAccording to a September 2010 article in the Army News Service, \"The first students to attend classes at the new Fort Lee Transportation School will be those enrolled in the transportation management coordinator course - MOS 88N (Military Occupational Specialty). It is the only one of the seven transportation MOS-producing courses that will be taught at Fort Lee (the others are taught elsewhere).\" For example, Cargo Specialist (MOS 88H), Watercraft Operator (MOS 88K) and Watercraft Engineer (MOS 88L) training is conducted at Fort Eustis, Virginia, as Fort Eustis is the main housing of the Army's Watercraft. Motor Transportation Operator (truck driver, MOS 88M) training is conducted at Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri. Railway training for Army Reserve soldiers (MOSs 88P, 88T, and 88U) and Army civilian employees has remained at Fort Eustis, as there are only warehouse tracks and no railway system available for training at Fort Lee.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092048", "title": "Dietz", "text": "Dietz\n\nDietz is a surname, and may refer to:\n\n\nDietz may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2092051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092051", "title": "Blue Line (Los Angeles Metro)", "text": "Blue Line (Los Angeles Metro)\n\nThe A Line (formerly the Blue Line) is a light rail line running north–south between Los Angeles and Long Beach, California, passing through Downtown Los Angeles, South Los Angeles, Watts, Willowbrook, Compton, Rancho Dominguez, and Long Beach in Los Angeles County. It is one of six lines in the Metro Rail system. Opened in 1990, it is the system's oldest and third-busiest line with an estimated 22.38 million boardings per year . It is operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority.\n\nThe A Line (Blue) passes near the cities of Vernon, Huntington Park, South Gate, Lynwood, and Carson. The famous Watts Towers art installation is visible from the train tracks near 103rd Street station. The under-construction Regional Connector will directly link this line to and into the San Gabriel Valley along the current route of the L Line.\n\nThe A Line (Blue) runs between Downtown Los Angeles and Downtown Long Beach and has 22 stations.\n\nThe line's northern terminus is the underground station, after rising to street level, trains run south along Flower Street, sharing tracks with the E Line (Expo). Passengers can connect to the J Line (Silver) bus rapid transit line at 7th Street/Metro Center, Pico, and Grand stations. The A and E Lines diverge at Flower Street and Washington Boulevard just south of downtown Los Angeles. Here the A Line (Blue) turns east on Washington Boulevard before turning south on Long Beach Avenue where it enters the former Pacific Electric right-of-way. This historic rail corridor has four tracks, with two used by Metro Rail trains and two by freight trains. There are some elevated sections as this private right of way cuts through more densely populated areas. Passengers can connect with the C Line (Green) at the Willowbrook station. Just south of Willow station, A Line (Blue) trains exit the rail corridor and follow Long Beach Boulevard into the city of Long Beach, where trains travel through the Long Beach Transit Mall while making a loop using 1st Street, Pacific Avenue and 8th Street.\n\nTrains run between approximately 4:45 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. the following morning. On Friday and Saturday evenings, trains are extended until 2:00 a.m. of the following morning. First and last train times are as follows:\n\nTo/From Long Beach\n\nOf note, some trains operate at later or earlier times due to the A Line (Blue) making the turnaround in Downtown Long Beach.\n\nTrains on the A Line (Blue) operate every six minutes during peak hours Monday through Friday. They operate every twelve minutes during the daytime weekdays and all day on the weekends after approximately 9 a.m. (with a 15-minute headway early Saturday and Sunday mornings). Night service consists of ten-minute headways.\n\nOriginally during peak hours, every other train served only the stations between and to decrease the headway on that portion of the route. Willow was chosen because of its proximity to the A Line (Blue) storage yard and because it was the last southbound station with a park-and-ride lot. In the evening rush hour, riders saw some trains destined to \"Willow\" and others to \"Long Beach\". Consequently, those riders destined to Long Beach had to exit at Willow Station and wait for the next train, which would terminate at the Station. This was discontinued after the New Blue Improvements Project was completed in 2019, with all trains now serving the full route from end to end. \n\nWhen the A Line (Blue) began operation in 1990, it was projected to have a daily ridership of 5,000. However, it performed much better than expected, with daily ridership reaching 12,000 passengers within the first months of service and reaching 32,000 by the end of the first year of service.\n\n, the Blue Line had an average weekday ridership of 63,008, and Saturday and Sunday boardings of 30,579 and 30,314, respectively. In 2017, the line saw a total of 22.38 million boardings.\n\nMuch of the current A Line (Blue) follows the route of the Pacific Electric Railway's Long Beach streetcar service; service on the route ended in 1961. The line initially opened on Saturday, July 14, 1990, at a cost of US$877 million, and ran from to . In 1991, it was extended south to and north to .\n\nA mass transit extension to Pasadena was originally conceived as the \"Red Line Eastside extension\" and as the \"Pasadena Blue Line.\" However, in 1998, voters passed a ballot measure which banned the use of sales tax revenue for subway projects. As a result, the proposed extension opened as the Gold Line in 2003.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2001, the Blue Line underwent a US$11 million project to lengthen 19 of its platforms so that they could accommodate three-car trains.\n\nIn 2014, Metro announced the \"New Blue Improvements Project\" to renovate and modernize the system. In 2019, half the line was closed for five months each (10 months in total), with Metro providing bus shuttle service to compensate for the lack of rail service. Metro officially reopened the line on November 2, 2019, rebranding it as the A Line (Blue).\n\nMetro is currently constructing the Regional Connector, a light rail subway tunnel in Downtown Los Angeles that will connect the A and E Lines to the L Line (Gold) and allow a seamless \"one-seat ride\" between the A and E Lines' current terminus at 7th Street/Metro Center and Union Station. When this project is completed, the A, E, and L Lines will be simplified into the following:\n\n\nThe groundbreaking for the construction of the Regional Connector Transit Corridor took place on September 30, 2014, and it is expected to be in public service in 2022.\n\nThe line often operates at capacity, and various options to increase capacity have been considered, such as four-car trains or more frequent trains. Both have problems: it would be difficult or impossible to lengthen some of the station platforms, and the number of trains already causes delays for other vehicles at level crossings. Thus it may not be possible to increase A Line (Blue) ridership without an extremely expensive grade-separation project, either by elevation, by an entrenchment method similar to that used by the nearby Alameda Corridor freight rail \"expressway\", or by building another parallel transit corridor to relieve capacity strains from the A Line (Blue). When the Regional Connector project linking A and E Line tracks with the L Line tracks in Little Tokyo is completed, this may result in even more capacity problems, with ridership expected to grow even more once the connector is open for service.\n\nOver 120 motorists and pedestrians have been killed at A Line (Blue) level crossings since 1990 and there have been more than 800 collisions, making the line easily the country's deadliest and most collision-prone rail line.\n\nIn 1998, the MTA commissioned Booz Allen Hamilton, Inc. to evaluate the cause of A Line collisions and recommend affordable solutions. The study reported the high ridership (over 70,000 per day) was a contributor:\n\nOther identified contributing factors were the high local population density that leads to more pedestrian and vehicular traffic around the tracks, diverse varied socio-economic community around the line that creates literacy and language difficulties for public education campaigns, driver frustration due to the slow traffic speeds around the line that leads to more risk taking behavior, and the shared right-of-way with freight traffic in the fastest running section from station to Willow station, where trains operate at a maximum of between stations.\n\nThe collision rate has declined somewhat following the installation of four-quadrant gates at some crossings where the A Line (Blue) shares the right-of-way with freight rail between Washington station and Del Amo station. The gates prevent drivers from going around lowered gates. In addition, cameras along some problem intersections issue traffic tickets when drivers go around gates.\n\nThe following is the complete list of stations, from north to south.\nOn Metro Rail Operations' internal timetables, the A Line (Blue) is called line 801.\n\nThe A Line (Blue) is operated out of the Division 11 Yard (208th Street Yard) located at 4170 East 208th Street. This yard stores the fleet used on the A Line (Blue). It is also where heavy maintenance is done on the fleet. The Yard is located between and stations. Trains get to this yard via a wye junction on the southbound tracks. Northbound trains can enter and exit the yard via the cross tracks on the north and south side of the junction.\n\nThe A Line (Blue) uses three different types of rolling stock from Nippon Sharyo, Siemens, and Kinkisharyo.\n\nWhen the Blue Line first opened in 1990, the line had 54 Nippon Sharyo P865 light rail vehicles, numbered 100–153. These cars wore a unique livery consisting of several blue stripes and a single red stripe, reflecting the Blue Line's color designation and its Pacific Electric Red Car heritage.\n\nIn 2000, Metro transferred all 15 Nippon Sharyo P2020 light rail vehicles from the Green Line to the Blue Line fleet. These light rail vehicles were nearly identical to the older P865 model, but were about five years newer.\n\nIn 2012, Metro transferred some Siemens P2000 light rail vehicles from the Gold Line to the Blue Line fleet.\n\nIn 2017, the Blue Line received 78 Kinkisharyo P3010 light rail vehicles, the first new fleet of vehicles for the line since it opened in 1990. As the P3010 fleet was introduced, Metro gradually retired all of the remaining P865 light rail vehicles, the original vehicles used on the line.\n\nA Line (Blue) vehicles are maintained and stored at the Division 11 yard in Long Beach between Del Amo and Wardlow stations. This facility has capacity for storing and maintaining 86 light rail cars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092056", "title": "Rascals (Star Trek: The Next Generation)", "text": "Rascals (Star Trek: The Next Generation)\n\n\"Rascals\" is the seventh episode of the of the American science fiction television series \"\", the 133rd overall. It was originally released on October 30, 1992, in broadcast syndication. \"Rascals\" was credited to Alison Hock from a story by Ward Botsford, Diana Dru Botsford, Michael Piller, although the script was revised by several writers with Ronald D. Moore conducting the final draft. It marked the directorial debut of Adam Nimoy.\n\nSet in the 24th century, the series follows the adventures of the Starfleet crew of the Federation starship Enterprise-D. In this episode, the bodies of Captain Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart) and three other crewmembers are reduced to those of 12-year-old children in a transporter accident. When a group of Ferengi pirates boards the \"Enterprise\", the \"children\" must work with Commander William Riker (Jonathan Frakes) to take back the ship while coming to terms with their newly found youth.\n\n\"Rascals\" was not a popular episode with the staff, with scientific advisor Naren Shankar deriding the science proposed for the script. Several of the guest cast had appeared in other roles within the series before; David Tristan Birkin, Mike Gomez, Tracey Walter and Michael Snyder. The episode also marked the final appearance within the series for Colm Meaney as Miles O'Brien, Rosalind Chao as Keiko O'Brien and the only appearance of Hana Hatae as Molly O'Brien as Miles and his family move to the Space Station DS9 in \"\". The episode received a Nielsen Rating of 13.5 percent, and received a mixed response from critics. The scene with Keiko and Miles O'Brien was praised, while the Ferengi were seen in both positive and negative lights.\n\nCaptain Jean-Luc Picard, Guinan (Whoopi Goldberg), Ensign Ro Laren (Michelle Forbes) and Keiko O'Brien (Rosalind Chao) are returning to the \"Enterprise\" from the planet Marlonia, but a transporter accident results in them changing into 12-year-old children. Although the four still retain an adult mind, the crew have trouble taking them seriously, and Picard (David Tristan Birkin) is convinced by Dr. Beverly Crusher (Gates McFadden) to temporarily relinquish command of the ship. After turning over command of the \"Enterprise\" to Commander William Riker, Picard ponders resigning his Starfleet commission, albeit temporarily, in order to pursue other interests. Meanwhile, Keiko (Caroline Junko King) is dismayed by her husband Miles's (Colm Meaney) reluctance to be with her and is further saddened her daughter (Hana Hatae) does not recognize her. While Ro (Megan Parlen) is at first upset after being reminded of her unpleasant childhood, once Guinan's (Isis Carmen Jones) enthusiasm causes her to soften, the duo begin jumping on a bed and other childish pursuits.\n\nDr. Crusher works out how to reverse the de-aging under controlled conditions. Before further tests can be run, two Klingon warships decloak and attack the \"Enterprise\". Ferengi pirates board the ship and take control, but Riker locks out the main computer. The Ferengi beam most of the adults on board to a nearby planet and corral the children, including Picard and his party, into the schoolrooms on board. Picard and his group try to use the classroom computers to regain control of the ship, but are prevented by the limited functionality and condescending interface. Picard pretends to be Riker's son and demands the Ferengi take him to his \"father,\" throwing a tantrum until his demand is met. He asks Riker to unlock the computer console in the schoolroom, using the ruse that none of the computer games will work.\n\nAfter Picard is returned to the schoolroom, the lead Ferengi threatens to harm the children if Riker does not unlock the computer and teach his lieutenant how to operate the \"Enterprise\". Riker pretends to instruct the Ferengi officer, but only spouts deliberately meaningless technobabble as he unlocks the computer console in Picard's schoolroom. With command functions enabled, Picard is able to activate a transporter safety function. With help from Worf's son, Alexander Rozhenko (Brian Bonsall), Guinan, and Ro, they use communication badges to trap most of the Ferengi on a transporter pad with their weapons disarmed and the exit blocked by a force field. Once most of them are detained, the children and Riker are able to overpower the remaining members and retake the \"Enterprise\". After the events, the transporter is used to return Picard, Guinan and Keiko to their adult states. Buoyed by her experience, Ro decides to remain a child for just a little while longer and draw some pictures, something she never did during her childhood.\n\nThe basic idea behind \"Rascals\" was pitched by Ward Botsford and Diana Dru Botsford to producers Jeri Taylor and Michael Piller during the . Taylor later recalled that they were the only members of the staff that liked the idea. Although Alison Hock received the credit for the teleplay, it went through several revisions with Ronald D. Moore conducting the final re-write. He later explained that he did not like the story and felt that he had not \"dodged the bullet fast enough\" but instead attempted to put his feelings aside. Part of the changes he made to the script was to add several \"character moments\", and to consult with the show's scientific adviser Naren Shankar about the type of scenario which could turn the main characters into children. Shankar did not enjoy the work on \"Rascals\" either, calling it \"Not a happy day\" when the discussions began.\n\nShankar did not support the idea in the initial script that there was some sort of Homonuclear molecule within DNA at the child stage of development that could be reverted to. He described the concept as \"silly\", and insisted that it was not used. He later explained that the \"problem was that it was virtually impossible to come up with a sensible explanation and so we kind of did a lot of hand waving on this episode\". The use of the term RVN was only created after executive producer Rick Berman requested something similar to DNA. Regarding the method in which the characters were restored to adulthood, he said \"Let's not even talk about it. Let's just forget that ever happened.\" Taylor later said that Moore's changes made \"it work\".\n\nThere was also some disagreement among the staff as to who the enemy should be in \"Rascals\". Piller was the one who suggested the Ferengi due to the alien's previously portrayed comedic nature. He had dismissed using either the Cardassians or the Romulans as he felt they were too lethal to be pitted against children. Taylor was not convinced by the idea of using the Ferengi, calling it \"a big one to swallow\" as it suggested that five of them could take over the \"Enterprise\" by themselves. She said that Piller was \"probably right\" in his decision.\n\n\"Rascals\" was the directorial debut of Adam Nimoy, the son of \"\" Spock actor Leonard Nimoy. He had previously trained as an attorney, but decided to pursue a job in entertainment instead. He assisted director Nicholas Meyer on the film \"\" (1991) and then observed directors on \"The Next Generation\" during . His work on \"Rascals\" was praised by executive producer Rick Berman, saying that Francis Ford Coppola would have found the job of managing four child actors a challenge. Later in the season, Nimoy returned to direct \"\".\n\nNimoy called Megan Parlen \"phenomenal\" in her role as the young Ro, and compared her to Christina Ricci. Taylor also praised Parlen, calling her fantastic in the role. Because of the expectation that Forbes would not return to the role of Ro after \"Rascals\", Taylor suggested at one point keeping the character as a child since her return to adulthood was not seen on screen. She suggested it to Piller and Berman, but said that they looked as if what she said was \"absolutely insane\". Taylor said it remained a good idea, as she felt that only \"Star Trek\" could have a character changed into the body of the child and yet still fly the ship. \"Rascals\" marked the only appearance by Forbes during the sixth season, but she later returned for the penultimate episode of the series, \"\".\n\nEach of the Ferengi actors had previously played members of the alien race on the series before. Mike Gomez and Tracey Walter, who played Lurin and Berik respectively in \"Rascals\", had appeared in \"\", while Morta actor Michael Snyder had appeared in \"The Perfect Mate\". \"Rascals\" also marked the final appearance of Meaney and Chao as the O'Briens, before they moved over to \"\". Meaney later returned for the final episode of \"The Next Generation\", \"\", in a sequence set prior to the pilot. \"Rascals\" also saw the only appearance of Hatae in \"The Next Generation\", although she would recur throughout \"Deep Space Nine\" in that role.\n\nNimoy was concerned about the voices of the child actors compared to those of the adults, describing the casting of the Picard role as \"tough\". Birkin was cast in that role; he had previous played Picard's nephew Rene in \"The Next Generation\" episode \"\". Isis Carmen Jones portrayed the younger version of Guinan, the actress had also played the young version of Goldberg's character in the film \"Sister Act\" (1992). However, due to the differences in the voices of the two actresses, Jones was dubbed in \"Rascals\". Guinan had only been added to the script after Goldberg agreed to appear in the episode at Nimoy's request.\n\n\"Rascals\" was originally released in broadcast syndication on October 30, 1992. It received Nielsen ratings of 13.5 percent, placing it in second place in its timeslot. This was part of an overall decline in ratings during the first part of the sixth season; the preceding episode, \"True Q\", received ratings of 13.7 percent. The episode broadcast after \"Rascals\", \"A Fistful of Datas\", received a rating of 13.4 percent.\n\nIn their book \"The Unauthorized Trek: The Complete Next Generation\" (1995), James Van Hise and Hal Schuster said that the episode was not as funny as it thought it was, and that the success of the Picard and the other children resulted in the adult crewmembers looking \"ineffectual\". Mark Jones and Lance Parkin, in their book \"Beyond the Final Frontier: An Unauthorised Review of Star Trek\" (2003), praised the child actors seen in \"Rascals\", in particular the work of Birkin. They also added that the scene between Miles and Keiko was a highlight of the episode due to the awkwardness portrayed.\n\nZack Handlen gave the episode a rating of \"B-\" in his review for \"The A.V. Club\". He praised Birkin, but criticised Jones, saying that she \"deliver[ed] every line as though looking to earn high marks in Enunciation and Condescension 101\". Handlen said that the Miles/Keiko scene was \"dramatically interesting\", and that the part of the episode with the Ferengi was \"a nice mini-action movie that helps pick up a generally dodgy hour\". However, he considered it to be padding as it felt disconnected from the part of the episode that came before it.\n\nKeith DeCandido reviewed the episode for Tor.com, giving it a rating of two out of ten. He said that it resembled the \"\" episode \"The Counter-Clock Incident\", and that the first act of \"Rascals\" was compelling. However, he said \"It’s difficult to put into words how appallingly stupid the entire episode becomes from the moment the Birds of Prey decloak to the end.\" He criticized the ability of the Ferengi to take over the \"Enterprise\", calling them \"spectacularly idiotic\" with Picard's plan requiring them to be \"dumber than a box of hammers\". He said that the only reason why the episode was given a score as high as two was because of the effectiveness of the scene with Miles and Keiko. They note that because Ro Laren did not appear for another season, there was speculation this character had actually remained a child; however the character's story arc on the show was wrapped up with \"\" at the end of the seventh season.\n\nIn 2016, SyFy included this episode in a group of \"Star Trek\" franchise episodes they felt were commonly disliked but \"deserved a second chance\".\n\nIn 2019, \"Screen Rant\" ranked \"Rascals\" the second funniest episode of \"Star Trek:The Next Generation\".\n\n\"Rascals\" was released in the United States on a two-episode VHS tape in 1995, alongside \"True Q\". The episode was released as part of the \"Star Trek: The Next Generation\" season six DVD box set in the United States on December 3, 2002. The most recent release was on Blu-ray disc June 24, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092057", "title": "Fresenius (company)", "text": "Fresenius (company)\n\nFresenius SE & Co. KGaA is a health care company based in Bad Homburg vor der Höhe, Germany. It provides products and services for dialysis, in hospitals and inpatient and outpatient medical care. It is involved in hospital management and in engineering and services for medical centers and other health care facilities.\n\nThe company is ranked 258th on the Forbes Global 2000.\n\nThere are four divisions: \n\n\nThe company was founded by Eduard Fresenius in 1912.\n\nIn 1946, Fresenius died. Else Kröner, his foster-daughter and protegée, who was still in pharmacy school at the time, inherited the company. Else Kröner rescued the company from significant debts by laying off the majority of staff and restructuring the business. Kröner died in 1988. Kröner's will left all of her assets to the Else Kröner-Fresenius-Foundation, which funds medical research.\n\nIn 1966, the company began to sell dialysis machines.\n\nIn 1982, the company converted to a joint stock company.\n\nIn 1983, the company began producing polysulfone fiber membranes.\n\nIn 1986, the company became a public company, listing shares on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange.\n\nIn 1996, the company merged its dialysis business into National Medical Care to form Fresenius Medical Care.\n\nIn 1999, the company acquired the international nutrition business of Pharmacia & Upjohn and merged it with Fresenius Pharma to form Fresenius Kabi.\n\nIn 2001, the company acquired Wittgensteiner Kliniken, a major operator of private hospitals in Germany.\n\nIn 2005, the company acquired Helios.\n\nIn March 2005, Fresenius Kabi AG acquired Labesfal (Laboratório de Especialidades Farmacêuticas Almiro S.A.).\n\nIn September 2006, Helios Kliniken acquired a majority stake in Humaine Kliniken. HUMAINE operates six acute and post acute care hospitals in the fields of neurology, oncology and traumatology.\n\nOn July 16, 2007, the company completed its conversion from an Aktiengesellschaft (AG - German public limited company) to a Societas Europaea, the European Union-wide equivalent. The company changed its legal status once again on January 28, 2011, becoming a Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien (KGaA - German partnership limited by shares) with a \"Societas Europaea\" as a partner with unlimited liability (SE & Co. KGaA).\n\nIn August 2008, Fresenius Kabi acquired 73.3% of Dabur Pharma of India.\n\nIn September 2008, Fresenius Kabi acquired APP Pharmaceuticals, Inc.\n\nIn October 2011, the company agreed to acquire 51% of the share capital in Katholisches Klinikum Duisburg hospital.\n\nAlso in October 2011, Helios Kliniken acquired 94.7% of the share capital in Damp Group.\n\nIn September 2013, Fresenius acquired 41 hospitals from Rhön-Klinikum for €3.07 billion. In 2014, Fresenius sold its 5% stake in Rhön-Klinikum.\n\nIn November 2014, the company announced that its Russian partners, Sistema and Zenitco Finance Management, agreed to terminate their joint venture agreement that had been established in April 2014. The termination was prompted by changing political and regulatory circumstances in the region.\n\nIn January 2016, Fresenius Kabi announced that it would acquire Becton Dickinson's prescription drug business.\n\nIn February 2016, Fresenius Helios acquired the municipal hospital in Velbert, North Rhine-Westphalia.\n\nIn January 2017, Fresenius acquired the largest Spanish hospital group, the Grupo Hospitalario Quirónsalud for €5.76 billion and merged it into the Helios Group, establishing the biggest hospital group of Europe.\n\nIn September 2017, Fresenius Kabi acquired Merck KGaA’s biosimilars business.\n\nIn February 2019, Fresenius Medical Care acquired NxStage, a US-based maker of in-home dialysis devices, for $2 billion.\n\nIn 2012, a paper was published raising concerns regarding the use of hydroxyethyl starch in sepsis. Fresenius Kabi, which makes the product, threatened legal action against the main author, Danish scientist Anders Perner.\n\nIn 2015, Fresenius Kabi Group pleaded guilty to breaches of United Kingdom's Medicines Act 1968 and was fined £500,000 by the Sheffield Crown Court for supplying faulty insulin syringes containing no insulin, leading to the death of Neil Judge from diabetic ketoacidosis in 2010.\n\nIn 2019, the company paid $231 million to the United States Department of Justice to settle allegations of civil bribery to obtain business in Angola, Saudi Arabia, Morocco, and Spain.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092061", "title": "Sandra Blow", "text": "Sandra Blow\n\nSandra Betty Blow (14 September 1925 – 22 August 2006) was an English abstract painter and one of the pioneers of the British abstract movement of the 1950s. Blow's works are characteristically large scale, colourful abstract collages made from discarded materials.\n\nBorn in London, she suffered scarlet fever as a child, spending weekends and holidays at her grandparents' fruit farm in Kent. There she spent time painting, before enrolling at Saint Martin's School of Art between 1941-1946, and then the Royal Academy Schools, 1946-1947. She later enrolled at the Accademia di Belle Arti in Rome, where she met Alberto Burri, her partner of a few years. Blow and Burri travelled in Italy together before moving to and working in Paris, and Burri became a life long influence in her work.\n\nSandra Betty Blow was born on 14 September 1925 in Newington, London. She came from a Jewish family; her father, Jacob, who was a fruit wholesaler, and her mother had three children, Sandra was the second. During her childhood, Blow spent weekends and holidays in Kent at her grandparents' fruit farm.\n\nIn 1934, Blow suffered with scarlet fever, followed by rheumatic fever, from which her heart never fully recovered. After attending a local primary school, Blow was educated at a private girls school. At the age of fourteen, Blow was evacuated with her mother and two brothers to Paddock Wood in Kent, near her grandparents' fruit farm, where she spent her time reading, drawing and painting.\n\nAfter leaving school at 14, Blow enrolled at Saint Martin's School of Art in 1941, where she studied until 1946 under teachers including Ruskin Spear. During this time she joined the artists' social scene, meeting people such as Lucian Freud, John Minton and Francis Bacon. She spent a short period in 1947 at the Royal Academy schools, but found the teaching dull, so instead travelled to Italy to study classic art. There she was inspired by Nicolas Carone to enrol at Accademia di Belle Arti in Rome. There she met Alberto Burri, with whom she began a relationship that would influence her work for the rest of her life and they travelled together in Italy during 1948. \n\nBlow and Burri worked together in Paris during 1949, but finding Burri's influence too overwhelming, Blow returned to the UK in 1950 to pursue her work free of his influence. The pair would create works in response to the each other throughout the 1950s and 60s and although Burri rose to international recognition, Blow remained the better artist. Blow faced the challenge of not only establishing herself as a woman artist in the 1950s but also as an abstractionist. The first sale of any of her works was to Roland Penrose, a founder of the Institute of Contemporary Arts, which proved to be a pivotal moment in her career.\n\nBlow's success further changed when the leading London gallery, Gimpel Fils, began representing her work from 1951. Under Gimpel Fils, Blow had regular exhibitions and secured her first solo show in New York. The gallery also represented St Ives artists, including Barbara Hepworth, beginning Blow's life-long connection with the British coastal town. In 1957, Blow moved to St Ives for one year and would return there years later to live permanently.\n\nIn 1960, Blow began teaching painting at the Royal College of Art, where she remained until 1975 and earned a position as honorary fellow, whilst also painting in her studio in Chelsea, London. She was elected to the Royal Academy in 1978.\n\nAfter her structured training at Saint Martin's, Blow was influenced by Nicolas Carone and his approach to colour and space. He in turn had been influenced by Hans Hofmann. Blow was also influenced by Alberto Burri, who was progressing towards abstract art informel, using materials such as sacking. Blow and Burri started a relationship, and travelled together throughout Italy during 1948, influencing each other's styles. It was through him that she started to use \"poor\" non-art materials, as seen in her painting \"Space And Matter\" in which she used liquid cement plus chaff and charcoal, but his lasting influence was in his commitment to art and his interest in the different textures of the world.\n\nBlow's work was at the forefront of the British abstract art movement of the 1950s. She was one of the most original woman painters in Britain, challenging the \"'macho' cult\" surrounding abstract art. Her works emphasise surface textures, creating a tactile quality, and tend to use simple, large geometric shapes. Blow would regularly use collage effects in her paintings and in her early work, would sometimes dye her canvas with tea to produce natural colours. Blow's later works would demonstrate a greater use of colour and simple, geometric forms. One well-known piece by Blow, illustrating her improvisatory approach to the use of materials, \"Space And Matter\", 1959, is a painting of oil on board plus other experimental materials, creating the impression of wood and tar as well as flame and sea spray. In the 1970s, Blow collaborated with architect Eric Defty on a series of paintings. This collaboration saw Blow begin to incorporate geometric shapes among her organic forms in her later paintings and turn increasingly to square canvases as an architectural component of her work.\n\nBlow's work was widely exhibited during her lifetime. Notable exhibitions of her work include sales made to the Museum of Modern Art and the Tate Gallery, the 1958 Venice Biennale, the 1960 Guggenheim International Award (which she won), the 1961 Liverpool John Moores University exhibition and at the Victoria and Albert Museum. Despite moving to St Ives in the 1990s, Blow continued working in London, participating in the Royal Academy's Summer Exhibitions and being honoured with a retrospective in the newly completed Sackler Galleries in 1994. In 1995, she completed her \"only large scale experimentation with glass\", an illuminated glass screen named \"Flight Structure\", which was installed in Terminal 3 of Heathrow Airport. This was installed by the airside entrance and the artist styled the work to convey the transition from security to flight. It has now been moved to the airport's head office in the Compass Centre. In 2001-2002, \"Space and Matter\", became the title of an exhibition of Blow's work at Tate St Ives.\n\nBlow lived in a flat in South Kensington, London, since the 1960s but was forced to move due to rising rents. In 1994, she moved to St Ives, Cornwall, and there have been retrospectives of her work at the Royal Academy and Tate St Ives. Blow never had children, which had been a purposeful decision in her twenties, but she later regretted it. Blow died at the Royal Cornwall Hospital after a heart valve replacement operation resulted in a cerebral haemorrhage.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092068", "title": "Amarkantak", "text": "Amarkantak\n\nAmarkantak (NLK \"Amarakaṇṭaka\") is a pilgrim town and a Nagar Panchayat in Anuppur, Madhya Pradesh, India. The Amarkantak region is a unique natural heritage area and is the meeting point of the Vindhya and the Satpura Ranges, with the Maikal Hills being the fulcrum. This is where the Narmada River, the Son River and Johila River emerge.\n\nPopular 15th-century Indian mystic and poet Kabir is said to have meditated on \"Kabir Chabutra\", also called the platform of Kabir situated in the town of Amarkantak.\n\nAmarkantak is a combination of two Sanskrit words, \"amara\" (immortal) and \"kantaka\" (obstruction or thorn ). The poet Kalidas has mentioned it as \"Amrakuta\", which later became \"Amarkantak\".\n\nAmarkantak is located in the state of Madhya Pradesh in India at . It has an average elevation of 1,048 metres (3,438 ft). Roads running through Rewa, Shahdol, Anuppur, Jabalpur, Katni and Pendra connect it. The nearest railway stations are Anuppur and Pendra Road 43 km via Keonchi and only 28 km via Jwaleshwar. The nearest airport is Dumna Jabalpur (Jabalpur Airport) in the city of Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh (240 km) which has daily flight service to Delhi and Mumbai.\n\nThe Amarkantak Nagar Panchayat has a population of 8,416 of which 4,514 are males while 3,902 are females as per report released by Census India 2011. \n\nThe population of children with age of 0-6 is 921 which is 10.94 % of the total population of Amarkantak (NP). In Amarkantak Nagar Panchayat, female sex ratio is of 864 against a state average of 931. Moreover, the child sex ratio in Amarkantak is around 931 compared to Madhya Pradesh state average of 918. Literacy rate of Amarkantak city is 80.20 % higher than the state average of 69.32 %. In Amarkantak, Male literacy is around 88.06 % while the female literacy rate is 71.02 %.\n\nThe ancient temples of Kalachuri period are in the south of Narmadakund, just behind it. These were built by Kalachuri Maharaja Karnadeva (1041–1073 AD.)\n\nThe town of Amarkantak is surrounded by a rich variety of flora with medicinal properties. The Achanakmar Wildlife Sanctuary, is located at a distance of no more than 40 km from the town of Amarkantak in the state of Chhattisgarh on the road to Bilaspur. The enchanting lush green forest belt in Amarkantak is a part of Achanakmar-Amarkantak Biosphere Reserve. The forests of Amarkantak are linked with the forests of Kanha National Park. Amarkantak falls on the Kanha-Achanakmar Corridor, a hilly region covered with dense forests. Kanha and Achanakmar are both conserved wildlife parks in India famous for Bengal tigers.\n\n\"Pinus caribaea\", known as tropical pine, was planted in Amarkntak in 1968 on advice of Forest Research Institute, Dehradun on the recommendations of National Commission on Agriculture looking to the future demand of quality pulpwood. This work was undertaken under a World Bank Technical Assistance Project by clearing natural sal forests. The naturalists and environmentalists in India raised controversy over it; ultimately the project of tropical pine plantation was abolished.\n\nThe Indira Gandhi National Tribal University was established in Amarkantak by an act of parliament in 2007, to promote education and research in various aspects of tribal communities and provide higher education to the tribal population. It has 28 departments which offer undergraduate, post-graduation, and Ph.D. programs.\n\nThe Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya was established here with the aim of nourishing and fostering the rural young, Jawahar Navodya Vidyalaya, Anuppur started in the year 1987. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092074", "title": "Antonín Kammel", "text": "Antonín Kammel\n\nAntonín Kammel (April 21, 1730 – 5 October 1784 or 1785) was a composer and violinist. His best-known composition is String Quartet no. 2.\n\nKammel was born at Běleč, now in the Czech Republic. He was part of the social circle of the leading 18th century London concert impresarios, Johann Christian Bach and Carl Friedrich Abel. He also performed at provincial musical festivals, leading the orchestra at Salisbury in 1771. He died in London in 1784/5.\n"}
{"id": "2092076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092076", "title": "Uriah Rennie", "text": "Uriah Rennie\n\nUriah Rennie (born 23 October 1959 in Sheffield, England) is a retired top level English football referee.\n\nRennie began refereeing in 1979 in local leagues, then operated in the Northern Premier League until 1994, at which time he was appointed to the Football League List of referees. He was given his first Premiership appointment on 23 August 1997, a game between Leeds United and Crystal Palace at Elland Road. Rennie became a FIFA referee in 2000, and joined the Select Group of professional referees the following year. Keith Hackett, head of the Professional Game Match Officials Board has described him as \"the fittest referee we have ever seen on the national and world scene.\" At the end of 2004, he retired from the FIFA list, after reaching the compulsory age of 45 but made a return to active refereeing in November 2007, following a hamstring injury, In September 2010, Rennie became president of Hallam FC which was celebrating its 150th anniversary season.\n\nHe practises both kick-boxing and aikido, and has a Master's degree in business administration and law. He is also a magistrate in Sheffield. He is married and has one daughter. He appeared as himself in the BBC Two drama \"Marvellous\", broadcast in September 2014.\n\nIn August 2015, he became the referee in the ITV game show, \"Freeze Out\", presented by Mark Durden-Smith.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092102", "title": "Tony Destra", "text": "Tony Destra\n\nTony Destra (September 20, 1954 – February 8, 1987), was an American drummer who played for the glam metal bands Cinderella and Britny Fox. Before Cinderella or Britny Fox, Tony was the drummer for another popular Philadelphia area band called Enforcer. The singer for Enforcer was Bill Mattson who would gain later recognition as the frontman for Tangier. Tony played on Cinderella's indy 45 of \"Shake Me\" and \"Somebody Save Me\". After he left Cinderella, he joined Britny Fox in 1985. He played on the Britny Fox demo \"In America\" in 1986. Tony died in a car accident on February 8, 1987.\n\nIn Cinderella, he was replaced by drummer Jim Drnec. In Britny Fox he was briefly replaced by drummer Adam West, who was then himself replaced by long-term drummer Johnny Dee.\n\nDemos\n\n\"In America\" (demo) (1986)\n"}
{"id": "2092114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092114", "title": "Henkel", "text": "Henkel\n\nHenkel AG & Company, KGaA, is a German chemical and consumer goods company headquartered in Düsseldorf, Germany. It is a multinational company active both in the consumer and industrial sector. Founded in 1876, the DAX 30 company is organized into three globally operating business units (Laundry & Home Care, Beauty Care, Adhesive Technologies) and is known for brands such as Loctite, Persil, Fa, Dial and Purex, amongst others.\n\nIn the fiscal year 2017, Henkel reported sales of over 20 billion euros and an operating profit of 3.055 billion euros. More than 80 percent of its 53,700 employees work outside of Germany.\n\nThe company was founded in 1876 in Aachen as Henkel & Cie by Friedrich Karl Henkel (a 28-year-old merchant who was interested in science) and two more partners. They marketed his first product, \"Universalwaschmittel\", a universal detergent based on silicate.\n\nIn 1878, to take advantage of the better transport links and sales opportunities, Henkel relocated his company to Düsseldorf on the Rhine (its present site). Düsseldorf was the gateway to the Ruhr region, which became the most important industrial area of the German Empire from the 19th century onward. That year, the first German brand-name detergent appeared: Henkel's Bleich-Soda [Bleaching Soda], an affordably-priced product supplied in sturdy paper bags. Made from water-glass and soda, it was the result of Fritz Henkel's own research. The soda was obtained from Matthes & Weber in Duisburg (Henkel bought this company in 1917 and sold it in 1994).\n\nIn 1879, Fritz Henkel was entered as the sole owner in the register of companies. Sales of Henkel's Bleaching Soda increased so rapidly that within just one year the rented factory on the Schützenstraße in Düsseldorf was unable to meet the demand. Fritz Henkel decided to build his own factory with a railway link.\n\nIn 1883, to improve liquidity and make better use of the company's travelling sales staff, Fritz Henkel decided to sell merchandise in addition to his detergents. Sales started in 1884. The range included the colorant ultramarine [laundry bluing agent], gloss starch, a liquid cleaning agent, a pomade for cleaning, beef extract, and a hair pomade. Very soon Henkel developed its international presence—in 1886, Henkel opened its first international sales office in Austria. Carl Pathe had gone to Vienna as a representative the year before. In 1893, Henkel established its first business links with England and Italy.\n\nIn 1903, Schwarzkopf, founded by Hans Schwarzkopf (1874, Danzig – 12 February 1921, Berlin), launched a powder shampoo. Persil came in 1907 as the first \"self-acting laundry detergent.\"\n\nHenkel has been a family-run business since the beginning. In 1893, Fritz Henkel, Jr. (1875–1930) joined the firm as an apprentice. After receiving commercial training he became his father's right-hand man in commercial matters. He put Henkel's brand-name product business on a sound footing, developed its already successful advertising still further and was responsible for the company's field service. On 25 July 1904, he became a partner in Henkel, which was transformed into a general commercial partnership. By this time, 110 people were employed at the Holthausen site. On 25 April 1905, Dr. Hugo Henkel (1881–1952), the youngest son of Fritz Henkel, Sr., joined the company as a chemist. He was in charge of Chemical Products and Technology. Over the years, he laid the foundations of systematic research and introduced advanced technologies and new raw materials. In 1908, he became a personally liable partner in the company.\n\nIn 1912, total production in Düsseldorf-Holthausen rose to 49,890 tons. At 19,750 tons, Persil laundry detergent accounted for 40 percent of this, just five years after its market launch. The number of employees increased by 89 relative to the previous year, resulting in a total workforce of 1,024. Around half were female. A first-aid center was set up in the plant and a full-time nurse was employed. In the previous year Henkel had installed ball fields and play areas to encourage exercise during break times. Female employees could attend the plant's own housekeeping school during the lunch break.\n\nOn 11 January 1923, troops from France and Belgium occupied the Rhineland. The occupation made delivery of adhesives from suppliers used for the packaging of Persil unreliable. The disruption caused Henkel to internally manufacture adhesives for its own needs. Henkel found there was a demand for adhesives on the market, and on 22 June 1923, the first adhesive shipment left the plant.\n\nIn 1930 Hugo Henkel took charge of the company. Following the Nazi seizure of power in 1933, he joined the Nazi Party (membership number 2,266,961) and served as a member of the Düsseldorf City Council. In the following years, the Henkel company received several awards by the regime and was designated a National Socialist Model Enterprise by the Beauty of Labour organization.\nAfter being pressured by the local party chapter, Hugo Henkel stepped down as managing director in 1938. Werner Lüps, the oldest grandson of company founder Fritz Henkel, took his position until his death in 1942. Lüps was a fervent supporter of the National Socialist cause even before 1933 and used the fact that Hermann Göring, Commander-in-Chief of the Luftwaffe, was a distant paternal relative, to be promoted. During his rule, the company increased its shares of Degussa AG significantly, especially after the Kristallnacht in November 1938.\nDuring World War II, several hundred foreign civilian slavery workers and prisoners of war were working for the company. \n\nOn 16 April 1945, American troops occupied Henkel's Düsseldorf site. On 5 June, the British military command in Düsseldorf took over from the Americans. From 20 July, the British military government gradually granted permission for the production of adhesives, P3 and water-glass by Henkel, and for soaps and detergents as well as shoe polish by Thompson. In February 1946, Matthes & Weber in Duisburg was given permission to process available raw materials into soda. On 20 September 1945, five members of the Henkel family and another seven members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board were interned.\n\nIn 1949, the launch of Schauma shampoo by Schwarzkopf marked the start of the most successful German shampoos.\n\nIn 1954, Henkel-subsidiary Dreiring launched Fa soap, a new type of toilet soap. From 1970 onward it was joined by a series of Fa deodorants, shower gels and bubble baths, making Fa one of the best known umbrella brands in the toiletry sector.\n\nPritt, the world's first glue stick, made its debut in 1969. Over the years, other products were introduced under this brand, underlining Henkel's importance in the office and stationery supplies sector. Exports of Pritt began in the same year, eventually making this Henkel's most widespread global brand. Vernel fabric softener and enzyme-based bioactive Persil 70 appeared.\n\nStarting in the 1960s, Henkel has combined organic growth with strategic company acquisitions:\n\nIn 2008, Henkel KGaA became Henkel AG & Co. KGaA. That same year, Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner retired from his position as Chairman of the Management Board of Henkel KGaA. He was succeeded by Kasper Rorsted. In September 2009, Simone Bagel-Trah was elected as new Chairwoman by the Henkel Shareholders’ Committee as well as Henkel's Supervisory Board. The retirement of Albrecht Woeste, who had been member of the Committee since 1976 and its president since 1990, marked the transition from the fourth generation of the Henkel family to the fifth.\n\nOn 5 May 2011, Jyothy Laboratories bought 50.97% stake in Henkel India. It has offered to buy 20% more in Henkel India through a compulsory open offer mandated by SEBI norms. In 2014, Henkel offered to buy French-based laundry aids-to-shoe polish manufacturer Spotless for 940 million Euros (about $1.3 billion) in cash. The deal would slightly increase Henkel's share of the $82 billion global laundry care market to 8.7%, still well behind Procter & Gamble's 26.6% and the 14.8% market share held by Unilever, which sells Persil detergent—a Henkel brand—in some markets. The takeover, which was subject to approval from antitrust authorities, was completed in May 2015. \n\nEffective 1 May 2016, Hans Van Bylen took over the position as Chairman of the Henkel Management Board. Also in 2016, Henkel acquired the laundry and home care company Sun Products for 3.2 billion euros ($3.6 billion), thus becoming No. 2 supplier in the North American laundry care market, and presented its new strategic priorities and financial ambition for 2020. \n\nIn 2017, Henkel announces to manage its Corporate Venture Capital activities in a dedicated unit (Henkel Ventures) to invest up to 150 million euros in start-ups with digital or technological expertise. In the same year, Henkel buys Darex Packaging Technologies and Sonderhoff Group, expanding the Adhesive Technologies business. With the acquisition of Nattura Laboratorios in 2017, Henkel also expands its footprint in the US and Latin American professional hair care market. On September 7, Henkel inaugurates its new North American Consumer Goods headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut. This move is part of the integration of The Sun Products Corporation, which Henkel acquired the year before. In December 2017, Henkel also closes the acquisition of Shiseido’s North American hair professional business, including brands like Joico and Zotos. \n\nIn October 2019, Carsten Knobel was appointed to succeed Hans Van Bylen as CEO of Henkel as of January 1, 2020. In November 2019, Henkel acquired hair care company DevaCurl from a fund managed by Ares Management Corporation.\n\nIn 1992, Henkel published its first Environment Report. Henkel is also a founding member of the “World Business Council for Sustainable Development” (WBCSD). In 2003, Henkel declared its participation in the United Nations Global Compact and has committed itself to the Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Since 2008, Henkel is an official member of the “Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil” (RSPO). In 2012 Henkel, along with five other chemical companies, started the Together for Sustainability initiative, focused in the sustainability of its supply chain.\n\nIn 2008, the company announced its sustainability targets for 2012, which were met by the end of 2010: energy consumption had decreased by 21 percent, water usage by 26 percent, and the amount of waste generated by 24 percent. Over the same period, the number of occupational accidents fell by 29 percent. Presented in 2012, the goal of Henkel's new Sustainability Strategy 2030 is to achieve more with less and to triple the efficiency. The strategy's focal areas are divided into two dimensions: Under the headline “more value”, the company focuses on the areas “social progress”, “safety and health” and “performance”. The second dimension “reduced footprint” deals with “energy and climate”, “materials and waste” and “water and wastewater”. As a short-term goal until 2015, Henkel aims to achieve a 15 percent reduction per production unit in the focal areas energy, water and waste. At the same time, the company plans to reach a 10 percent increase in net external sales per production unit. Henkel also intends to reduce its incident rate by 20 percent.\n\nHenkel has been listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. In 2011, the company was named sustainability leader in the Nondurable Household Products sector for the fifth consecutive time.\n\nHenkel has structured its corporate citizenship activities around three core elements: supporting employee volunteering (MIT Initiative), corporate and brand engagement for the common good and emergency aid. Since 1998, Henkel employees and retirees have been involved in over 12,800 projects in more than 50 different countries.\n\nIn 2016, Standard Ethics Aei has given a rating to Henkel in order to include the company in its Standard Ethics German Index. In September 2018, Henkel announces new targets for the global packaging strategy in order to further promote a circular economy.\n\nHenkel's main competitors in its cleaning division are Unilever, Procter & Gamble and Reckitt Benckiser. In its beauty division, its main competitors are Unilever, Procter & Gamble and L'Oréal. In its chemical and adhesive division, it has many competitors, but the main multinational competitors are Bostik and H.B. Fuller.\n\nHenkel was fined by Autorité de la concurrence in France in 2016 for price-fixing on personal hygiene products.\n\nHenkel is organized into three business units: Adhesive Technologies, Beauty Care, and Laundry & Home Care. Henkel leads the global market in the field of adhesives. Henkel's Beauty Care and Laundry & Home Care consumer businesses also hold top positions in numerous markets and categories.\n\nHenkel is the world's number one adhesives producer. The business unit offers a broad portfolio of adhesives, sealants, and functional coatings for both Industry and Consumers with brands like Loctite, Technomelt, Teroson, Bonderite, and Aquence, and Consumers, Craftsmen and Building businesses with brands like Pritt, Loctite, Ceresit and Pattex.\nThe Industry business includes four areas:\nAnd the Consumers, Craftsmen and Building business area markets a range of brand-name products for private, trade and construction users.\n\nIn June 2018, Henkel opened a new 3D printing technology hub in Tallaght, Ireland. In 2018, Henkel also laid the corner stone for a new global innovation center of its Adhesive Technologies business at the company's headquarters in Düsseldorf, investing more than €130 million. The center is planned to open end of 2020.\n\nHenkel Beauty Care is one of the leading beauty businesses worldwide, serving both retail and professional markets. The Branded Consumer Goods business area (retail) is active in Hair Cosmetics, Body Care, Skin Care, and Oral Care. Among the most well-known brands of the Beauty Care are Schwarzkopf, Dial, and Syoss. In 2017, Henkel successfully launched #mydentity hair color together with Guy Tang, a leading hairdresser and social media influencer. \nIn 2018, Henkel Beauty Care presented the Schwarzkopf SalonLab at CES – a digital hair salon experience using technology to customize products.\n\nHenkel's most famous brand is Persil, introduced in 1907, the first commercial \"self-activated\" laundry detergent, which means a bubbles forming bleach (sodium perborate) with a soap component (silicate). The abbreviation of the names of the two main components perborate and silicate compose the product name. Persil is the biggest brand for Henkel's Laundry & Home Care business, generating sales of more than 1 billion euros in 2017. Today, Henkel's Laundry & Home Care product portfolio ranges from heavy-duty detergents, specialty detergents and laundry additives to dishwashing products, hard surface and WC cleaners, air fresheners and insect control products.\n\nOther brands include Purex washing powder and liquid laundry detergent, Sun liquid laundry detergent, Vernel/Silan fabric softener, Somat/Glist dishwasher tablets, and Pril washing-up liquid. In the United States and Canada only (the brands elsewhere are owned by Unilever) All, Wisk, Snuggle, and Sunlight detergent and fabric softener brands are also Henkel brands. The brands owned by Unilever elsewhere, plus Sun, were acquired by Henkel through its acquisition of Sun Products in 2016.\n\nPersil Abaya Shampoo or Persil Black is a liquid detergent that Henkel introduced to the Saudi Arabian market in 2007 and later to other Gulf Cooperation Council region markets. The company sells the liquid as a specialist detergent for abayas, the loose, traditionally black, robe-like garments worn by women in many Islamic cultures.\n\nIn 1993, 1994, and 1997, Henkel & Schwarzkopf organized the Miss Fa beauty pageant in Russia and CIS. 1997's pageant \"Miss Fa Russia & CIS\" was the largest, held in major cities of Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan as part of the show \"World of Fantastic sensation\". The 26 winners of the regional rounds participated the final in Yalta, with Elena Khibliko ultimately winning the title. Sales of the Fa brand throughout Russia increased by 40% for the year, while overall sales of the company's products increased by 30%. The cost of this event is $1 million.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092125", "title": "Schwartz (surname)", "text": "Schwartz (surname)\n\nSchwartz is a last name of German origin, meaning \"black\" (modern spelling in German is ). It was originally a nickname for someone with black hair or a dark complexion. It may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092144", "title": "Wendigo (comics)", "text": "Wendigo (comics)\n\nWendigo (occasionally: Wen-Di-Go) is a fictional monster appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The Marvel character is based on the Wendigo legend of the Algonquian peoples. The monster first appeared in \"The Incredible Hulk\" #162 (April 1973), created by writer Steve Englehart and artist Herb Trimpe, fighting the Incredible Hulk.\n\nThe Wendigo is not one specific person, but instead is the manifestation of a curse that can strike anyone who commits an act of cannibalism in the Canadian north woods. Originally only one person can become the Wendigo at the time, which has led to one Wendigo being cured if another person was struck with the curse. In later years it has been revealed that a pack of Wendigos lived in the Bering Strait. At one point the Wendigo curse infected the Hulk, turning him into Wendihulk, although he was later cured.\n\nWhile normally depicted as a savage beast with no control, Wendigos have appeared as part of various villainous groups, showing some restraint when not fighting. The Wendigo character has also appeared in several Marvel cartoon series.\n\nThe Wendigo first appeared in \"The Incredible Hulk\" #162 (April 1973), and was created by Steve Englehart and Herb Trimpe. Englehart recalled, \"I knew about the legend of the Wendigo, and thought, between his strength and his sad story, that he sounded like a good Hulk opponent.\"\n\nSeveral people have been afflicted with the curse of the Wendigo, including Paul Cartier, Georges Baptiste, Francois Lartigue, Lorenzo, Mauvais and others.\n\nThe curse is regional to the woods of Northern Canada and takes place, under the right conditions, when a person in the forests of Canada feeds on human flesh. This \"Curse of the Wendigo\" was created by the Northern Gods (also known as \"the Inua\") in an effort to deter human cannibalism.\n\nThe cannibal transforms into a superhumanly strong, nearly indestructible, fur-covered monster: the Wendigo. He or she then roams the woods eating human beings. The Wendigo frequently fights the Hulk, Wolverine, and Alpha Flight. Paul Cartier transformed into the Wendigo, battles the Hulk, and escaped. He battles the Hulk again and encountered Wolverine, and then battles the Hulk and Wolverine; Paul Cartier is cured as college professor Georges Baptiste became the Wendigo.\n\nBaptiste as the Wendigo later terrorizes a snowbound group. He battles Wolverine, Nightcrawler, and members of Alpha Flight; the Baptiste Wendigo is captured and cured by Shaman, although Baptiste is arrested by Department H.\n\nFur trapper Francois Lartigue later transforms into the Wendigo, battles the Hulk when Bruce Banner stumbled across a cabin belonging to him, and Sasquatch, and is taken to be cured by Shaman.\n\nA reporter named Anna Brooks goes on the search for Bigfoot at the time when some children are missing where she stumbles upon a Wendigo. This sighting causes J. Jonah Jameson to dispatch Peter Parker to British Columbia. Though the Wendigo's actions also attract the attention of Wolverine. This led to Spider-Man and Wolverine working together to stop the Wendigo.\n\nOne Wendigo battles the Werewolf by Night in an issue of \"Marvel Comics Presents\". Its most frequent appearances were in the limited series \"Sabretooth: Open Season\" #1–4, where Sabretooth is hired to kill a Wendigo, ultimately succeeding.\n\nA few years later, a new Wendigo emerges, leading to a fight with Wolverine and She-Hulk. A local Canadian super-hero, Talisman, arrives and claims to have a magical cure for the Wendigo's condition. After a long battle, the Wendigo is defeated by a combined attack from his two opponents, and placed into S.H.I.E.L.D. custody. This Wendigo is apparently later taken in by the Canadian-based Department K and is given an electric collar that keeps the usually mindless beast under control and is integrated as a member of Weapon: P.R.I.M.E., a team of operatives each with a personal grudge against Cable. Their first mission is to take down Cable, but X-Force proves to be more than capable, as Cable teleports all their belongings out of the base and triggers the autodestruct device, though the device malfunctions and blows up early. Cut off from Cable, X-Force helps Kane, Bridge and Rictor escape the exploding base, while Grizzly, Wendigo (now referred as Yeti) and Tigerstryke are missing. Bridge and Kane still want to arrest X-Force and calls in S.H.I.E.L.D. reinforcement, but Rictor sides with X-Force, since his grudge is only against Cable, not his former teammates. Later the Wendigo's collar is exchanged with a neurological implant which gives more control to the man inside the beast, even allowing him to speak.\n\nDuring the \"Chaos War\" storyline, it is revealed that a pack of Wendigo exist in the Bering Strait after Red Hulk is attacked by a Wendigo, attracted by his camp fire while cooking a meal. A Wendigo bites the Red Hulk on the shoulder and he bleeds hot radioactive blood. The Red Hulk kills one Wendigo, while the others come to claim the body and eat it. It is also revealed that the Great Beasts are forced to manipulate the curse of the Wendigo to allow the transformation of several people instantly instead of only one, in order to create an army to fight with them against the Chaos King Amatsu-Mikaboshi.\n\nThese Wendigos are later somehow able to invade Las Vegas. where they are confronted by the Grey Hulk. The Grey Hulk gets help in the fight against them from Moon Knight, Ms. Marvel, and Sentry. Knocked into some debris, later on the Green Hulk appears. However, the Wendigos infect Hulk, turning him into the \"Wendihulk\" who attacks the superheroes. The sorcerer Brother Voodoo appears and cures Hulk and the other Wendigos.\n\nWhen the Avengers Academy students have an encounter with former Norman Osborn subject Jeremy Biggs, it is mentioned that Biggs' company has bought a Wendigo that killed Steve, another former Osborn subject with ice-based powers.\n\nDuring the 2011 \"Fear Itself\" storyline, a Wendigo is among the Alpha Flight villains gathered by Vindicator and Department H to spread the Master of the World's \"Unity\" program and to take down Alpha Flight as a member of Alpha Strike.\n\nAs part of Marvel Comics' 2012 initiative, Marvel NOW!, a Wendigo appears as a member of Department H's Omega Flight. Wendigo and the rest of Omega Flight are sent by Department H to investigate one of the Origin Bomb sites left by Ex Nihilo in Regina, Canada, a mission in which Wendigo is killed.\n\nA Wendigo is later recruited by Kade Kilgore to join the faculty of the Hellfire Club's Hellfire Academy.\n\nA Wendigo is summoned to Las Vegas through the wishing well of Tyrannus along with Bi-Beast, Fin Fang Foom, Umar, and Arm'Cheddon to fight the Hulk. This Wendigo is capable of minimalistic human speech and teams up with Bi-Beast to use the well's powers to allow them to grow to about thirty feet tall for fight the Hulk. However, both creatures are easily defeated by Hulk and are imprisoned along with Arm'Cheddon in the Dark Dimension by Umar until Tyrannus and Fin Fang Foom raids the dimension, allowing them to escape in the chaos.\n\nA later confrontation between two Canadian meat packing plant employees resulted in one accidentally killing the other, and the perpetrator trying to cover it up by running the body through the meat grinder. This resulted in a mass outbreak of the Wendigo Curse, which was greatly exacerbated by the curse being transmitted via bite wounds inflicted by the Wendigos, in a process akin to lycantrophy. An infection of this phenomenon beyond Canada's borders is initially prevented by the mystical limitations of the Wendigo Curse. With the uncontrollably of the outbreak, the Great Beast Tanaraq (the \"father\" of the Wendigo) gains enough power to overthrow his fellows and intended to spread the curse across the entire world. However, the combined efforts of the X-Men, the other Beasts, and Guardian defeat his plan, resulting in the elimination of the curse.\n\nSpider-Woman, with the help of Captain Marvel and Porcupine, later shuts down a Canadian restaurant that had been secretly serving its customers human flesh in an attempt to instigate another outbreak of Wendigo.\n\nWhen Jimmy Hudson appears on Earth-616 following the 2015 \"Secret Wars\" storyline, the townspeople mistake him for a Wendigo and shoot him before an actual Wendigo attack occurred. Recovering from the gunshot wound, Hudson fights the Wendigo.\n\nRoxxon later goes on an archaeological expedition to find a Wendigo. When a Wendigo attacks a scientist named Ella Stirling, she is saved by Weapon H. It was revealed that Roxxon executive Mr. Banks had a miner named Philips Waggoner eat a Wendigo meat at the site where the Avingnon Party resided during a blizzard. The result of this turned Philips Waggoner into an Ur-Wendigo which is more powerful than any normal Wendigo and can grow larger when it ate flesh. The Ur-Wendigo caught up to Weapon H and tried to eat him whole only for Doctor Strange to appear. As the Ur-Wendigo is immune to enchantments, Weapon H borrowed Doctor Strange's Ax of Angarruumus and allowed himself to be eaten by the Ur-Wendigo in order to kill it from within.\n\nThe Wendigo possesses a variety of superhuman physical abilities as a result of transformation by an ancient mystical curse. The curse causes anyone that ingests the flesh of another human, while within the Canadian wilderness, to transform into the Wendigo.\n\nThe Wendigo possesses superhuman physical strength of an unknown limit. It is known that the Wendigo possesses sufficient strength to go toe-to-toe with the Incredible Hulk.\n\nAside from its vast strength, the tissues of the Wendigo's body are considerably stronger than those of a human being, providing it with superhuman durability. A Wendigo's body can resist high caliber machine gun rounds without sustaining injury. If a Wendigo is injured, it can recover from the physical trauma with tremendous speed and efficiency, giving rise to the quote \"strike him down and he shall only rise again\". The dense fur covering the Wendigo's body grants it immunity to the harsh conditions of the extreme cold weather common in the areas in which the Wendigo has appeared. The Wendigo can be rendered unconscious by sufficient force, such as severe physical injury and trauma, but it has even been able to regenerate from being completely disemboweled. It has even survived its heart being ripped from its chest. However, consumption of a removed heart will confer all powers and even the form of the Wendigo on whoever consumes it. It is not known what effect psionic attacks would have on or against a Wendigo.\n\nDespite the Wendigo's great size, it can run at speeds greater than that of an Olympic level athlete. The enhanced musculature of the Wendigo generates less lactic acid than the muscles of a human being, granting it superhuman levels of stamina.\n\nThe Wendigo's fingers and toes are tipped with razor sharp, retractable claws that are capable of piercing even the Hulk's skin, a feat usually reserved for adamantium, due to a combination of the toughness of the claws and the Wendigo's massive physical strength.\n\nEven though each Wendigo was once a human being, in most cases very little is left of the person it once was. It possesses little intelligence and can be considered non-sentient, and with the exception of brief and rare instances, is unable to remember things about its former life. It also lacks the ability to speak anything other than its own name, which it often will yell and repeat during its attacks. Sorcerers such as Mauvais and Lorenzo have been able to avoid this aspect of the curse, using magic to gain the power of the Wendigo while keeping their intelligence and the power of speech.\n\nIn \"Amazing Spider-Man\" #277, a creature called Wendigo appears. This Wendigo seemed to be a ghost-like being whose very presence in New York caused a blizzard to strike. Though the creature only makes its appearance at the end of the comic, the story makes it obvious that it is stalking Spider-Man the entire time he was chasing a group of kidnappers. This Wendigo seemed to be able to change size and become invisible; it was also reptilian in appearance and pale green in color.\n\nIn \"Spider-Man\" issues #8–12 (the \"Perceptions\" story arc), a Wendigo creature is blamed in the deaths of several children near Hope, British Columbia and terrorizing the town. Spider-Man's alter ego, Peter Parker, is sent to take pictures during the media frenzy that follows. Wolverine, having previous experience with Wendigo creatures and having concern for the creature's welfare, comes to the town and contacts Peter Parker directly, seeking Spider-Man's assistance. Together Spider-Man and Wolverine are able to determine the real cause of death among the children. The Wendigo in \"Perceptions\" has an appearance very similar to other incarnations of the Wendigo, yet seems to be a different manifestation. For example, this version of Wendigo is more vulnerable to harm than those that battled the Hulk as it suffers a significant wound from a hunter's bullet, and sustains injury when struck by a car. Additionally, it does not appear very aggressive, unless provoked, nor is it interested in consuming human flesh, feeding primarily on deer. In fact, when the Wendigo comes across the corpse of a child, the creature attempts to return the body to town instead of consuming it.\n\nIn the Earth X continuity, there appears a unique twist on the classic Wendigo. This variation of Wendigo is unlike the previous; while the Wendigo curse afflicts only one person at a time, an army of Wendigo is formed in this continuity, due to the curse afflicting Jamie Madrox after he chooses to eat one of his own duplicated bodies in response to the strict rationing of food that came with the declining animal population.\n\nThe Wendigo makes another appearance in the MC2 imprint of Marvel Comics, an alternate future featuring, among others, the children of existing Marvel superheroes. In an issue of \"Wild Thing\", Hulk, Doctor Strange, Wolverine, and Wolverine's daughter Wild Thing encounter a large number of Wendigos, which turn out to be a lost cub scout troop that had eaten its scoutmaster. Doctor Strange is able to remove the curse from the children and remove their memory of the events.\n\nIn Warp World, a copy of the Marvel Universe when was folded in half during the \"Infinity Wars\" storyline, Wendigo was fused with Tigra creating Wentigra. Greer Baptise was a detective who was mortaly wounded by a gunshot and was retrieved by a cult known as the Cat People. In order for her to survive, they offered her to eat human meat which cursed her into becoming Wentigra. She was then unwillingly cured by Weapon Hex (fusion of X-23 and Scarlet Witch).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092147", "title": "Linz International School Auhof", "text": "Linz International School Auhof\n\nLinz International School Auhof (LISA) is a Public secondary school offering the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma as well as the Austrian school leaving certificate (Matura). The language of instruction is English. LISA is administrated as one of three school branches of the Europagymnasium Auhof. As of 2009, approximately 450 students attend this school branch.\n\nEnglish is used as a language of instruction in all subjects. English teaching materials are adapted by the teachers to suit the difficulty level of the students. Language assistants encourage students to try out new words and structures. These situations promote natural conversation with native speakers and the students have the opportunity to practice English in practically all of the subjects. Tutorials, which take place primarily in the first year, are lessons in which only two students work with one native speaker. In that way, the students do not only receive full attention, but also experience their own language skills more directly. Student-centered work with authentic English resources is among the most common methods applied from the very beginning. \n\nIn order to promote inter-cultural understanding, international exchanges and project weeks are an integral part of the LISA curriculum. The following activities take place during the 8 school years:\n\n\nDuring the past years, student exchanges to Singapore and Thailand were also conducted during the summer holidays. \n\nThe quarterly published LISA 4 U (for download) contains student articles on trips all current events at the school.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092157", "title": "Kodoor River", "text": "Kodoor River\n\nKodoor River is a river between the Kottayam and Alappuzha district of Kerala state, South India.\nKodoor River has a long history with the old trading routes between the coastal district Alapuzha and the eastern villages of Kottayam. There was a busy jetty at Puthuppally named Angadi, which means market. \nThe river is originated from the beautiful hills in between Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts and finally empty into the Meenachil River.\n"}
{"id": "2092159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092159", "title": "FC Lausanne-Sport", "text": "FC Lausanne-Sport\n\nFC Lausanne-Sport (also referred to as LS) is a Swiss football club based in Lausanne in the canton of Vaud. Founded in 1896, it plays in the Swiss Challenge League, the second highest league in the country, and hosts games at the Stade olympique de la Pontaise. The team has won seven league titles and the Swiss Cup nine times.\n\nThe club was founded in 1896 under the name of \"Montriond Lausanne\". However, the Lausanne Football and Cricket Club was established in 1860, believed to be the oldest football club on the European continent by some historians. The club took the name Lausanne-Sports FC in 1920 after the football section merged with the Club Hygiénique de Lausanne, a physical education club. The club plays at the Stade Olympique de la Pontaise, a 15,850 all-seater stadium used for the 1954 FIFA World Cup. They played in Swiss First Division between 1906 and 1931 and 1932–2002.\n\nAfter the 2001–02 season, Lausanne-Sports were relegated because the club did not obtain a first level license for the 2002–03 season. Following the 2002–03 season in the second division, Lausanne-Sports FC were again relegated due to bankruptcy. They were reformed as FC Lausanne-Sport for the 2003–04 season and had to begin play at the fourth tier. The team was promoted in consecutive seasons from the fourth division after the 2003–04 season and the third division after the 2004–05 season. After an additional six years in the second tier of Swiss football, the club was promoted to the Super League for the 2011–12 season.\n\nLausanne-Sport qualified for the 2010–11 UEFA Europa League after they reached the 2010 Swiss Cup final against Champions League-qualified Basel. In the 2010–11 Europa League, while still playing in the second tier Challenge League, they performed a shock getting to the group stages beating favourites Lokomotiv Moscow on the way.\n\nLausanne-Sport were relegated to the Swiss Challenge League at the end of the 2013–14 Swiss Super League season. Two years later, they finished first in the 2015–16 Swiss Challenge League, which promoted them back to the top tier of Swiss football for the 2016–17 season.\n\nOn 13 November 2017, the club was acquired by Ineos, a Swiss-based British petrochemicals company owned by Jim Ratcliffe, the nation's wealthiest person. The first transfer under the new ownership was that of Enzo Fernández, son of Zinedine Zidane. However, the season ended with relegation. Ratcliffe's brother Bob became club president in March 2019.\n\n\n\"As of 17 February, 2020\"\n\n\n\nRecent season-by-season performance of the club:\n\nLausanne-Sports Aviron is the rowing club of Lausanne-Sport.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092169", "title": "WKXW", "text": "WKXW\n\nWKXW (101.5 FM, \"New Jersey 101.5\") is a commercial FM radio station licensed to serve Trenton, New Jersey. It is owned by Townsquare Media. Its studios and offices are located in Ewing and its broadcast tower is located near the Quaker Bridge Mall in Lawrence Township in Mercer County, New Jersey at ().\n\nThe station went on the air on August 27, 1962, as WBUD-FM. Its call sign subsequently changed in 1967 to WBJH, which stood for Bill and Joy Hardin, the son and daughter-in-law of the owner. The station's call sign changed to WTRT in 1979 and rebranded as \"\"The New T-101 FM\"\". In 1980, the station's call sign was changed to WKXW-FM, under its new owner Fidelity Communications. It was playing a hot adult contemporary format as \"\"The All New Kix 101 & A 1/2 FM\"\" and later \"\"Kix 101.5\"\". By the late 80s, the station evolved into more of a gold-based adult contemporary format. Its weekend Saturday oldies show evolved into an all oldies format from the 1950s through early 70s on overnights and weekends before the change to its current weekday talk format, which came in 1990 when it was sold to Press Communications. The sale to Millennium Radio Group took place in 2001.\n\nOn March 1, 1990 at 5pm, “New Jersey 101.5”, conceived by Sabo Media CEO, Walter Sabo, became the first full-time FM Talk station in America targeted for a younger audience. Mark Sheppard, who later went to middays, kicked off the format playing Bill Haley & The Comets' \"Rock Around The Clock\".\n\nSince the 1990s, the station has a talk and news format during the week, with oldies music on the overnights and weekend. Initially, the oldies format was 1960s-based with a few pre-1964 oldies and a 1970s oldie or two each hour. By the early-to-mid-1990s, more 1970s music was added and by the early-2000s, 1980s music from 1980-1982 was added occasionally. Between 2000 and 2005, music from between 1986 and 1989 was added to the lineups. Gradually, at the same time, songs from 1964 and older were gradually reduced in the late-1990s and gone by 2000. In September 2007, 1960s music was removed from the \"60s, 70s, and 80s\" weekend music programming ID, and nearly all 1960s music had been removed from the playlist. However, in May 2012, \"60s\" was added back to the weekend music programming ID, coinciding with a limited but steady increase in music airplay focusing on select titles by well-known artists.\n\nIn the mid-to-late-1990s, music was ended on weekday overnights and now airs strictly on weekends and maybe some holidays.\n\nThe station has, at times, provided a simulcast on various AM and FM stations in the Atlantic City area, beyond the reach of its main transmitter. The most recent simulcast ceased in June 2009 when then-WXKW changed formats to ESPN Sports Radio.\n\nIn 2011, California-based Oaktree Capital signed a deal to buy Millennium Radio Group; after taking over, Oaktree transferred the Millennium stations to Townsquare Media.\n\nIn 2008, the station's parent company was sued by a photographer for copyright infringement, and defamation with regards to the online posting of a photocopy of a \"New Jersey Monthly \"magazine photograph. Photographer Peter Murphy sent a notice of copyright infringement to the station to remove a photo Craig Carton and Ray Rossi, which had been photocopied from a March 2006 issue of the magazine; the station also posted \"photoshopped\" versions of the picture that were submitted by listeners. While the station complied with the takedown request, Carton and Rossi complained on-air about Murphy's conduct, allegedly saying that Murphy was \"not to be trusted\" and that people \"should avoid doing business\" with him. Carton and Rossi also alleged that Murphy \"was a homosexual.\" In April 2008, Murphy brought suit for direct, contributory, and vicarious copyright infringement, violation of the DMCA, and defamation of character against Millennium Radio Group, Carton, and Rossi. The Third Circuit ruled that the station's actions did constitute both a violation of the DMCA and copyright infringement, which vacated the district court's judgment.\n\nOn July 26, 2018, the station came under fire after hosts Judi Franco and Dennis Malloy referred to New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal as \"turban man\" while on air. The hosts were suspended for 10 days.\n\nIn December 2018, Judi Franco garnered controversy when called the state's \"Move Over\" law \"silly\" and unnecessary in an opinion piece she posted on the station's website under the headline \"Dead cops make bad laws.\"\n\nThe station has strongly branded its New Jersey-ness, with its announcers frequently self-identifying \"New Jersey 101.5\" and with its bumper message intoning \"Not New York. Not Philadelphia. Proud to be New Jersey!\", as well as its branded \"New Jersey Fast Traffic\" and \"New Jersey Instant Weather\". The New Jersey-centric nature of the station is emphasized in the traffic reports, in that they refer to traffic direction on bridges and tunnels as \"entering New Jersey\" or \"leaving New Jersey\" instead of the more traditional designations of \"into the city/inbound\" or \"out of the city/outbound\". As well, current temperatures of different samples of towns in New Jersey are given after the weather reports. Despite the station's branding, the 101.5 signal does not reach the majority of Cape May, Salem and Sussex Counties while the signal's coverage of Atlantic, Bergen, Cumberland and Hudson Counties is poor at best, though streaming and smart speaker (Currently only available on Alexa devices) options do allow full-state reach of the station through other means.\n\nThe way WKXW has been able to maintain a strong listener base can be attributed to several factors, including:\n\nThe station is the flagship broadcasting arm of the Townsquare New Jersey News Network as heard on twelve radio stations throughout the state. The network consists of WOBM-FM in Toms River, WOBM-AM in Lakewood, WCHR-FM in Manahawkin, WJLK-FM in Asbury Park, WADB-AM in Tinton Falls, WFPG-FM in Atlantic City, WSJO-FM in Egg Harbor City, WPUR-FM in Atlantic City, and WENJ in Atlantic City. Various bureaus throughout the state share stories with the Ewing headquarters.\n\nThe station's proprietary format was created in 1990. It was idea of Sabo Media CEO Walter Sabo. Sabo, a former NBC and ABC executive, branded the station, built its approach to call-in radio and gave the station its Jersey-centric point of view. His initiatives were carried out by Jay Sorensen and Perry Michael Simon, with the help of Press Broadcasting chief Bob McAllan and general manager John Dziuba. Subsequent program directors include Leigh Jacobs and Eric Johnson.\n\nSupporting personalities include Dan Zarrow on weather, David Mattau and Patrick Lavery on news, Bob Williams, Jill Myra, \"Tom Rivers\" (aka Matt Ward from 1010 WINS), and Bernie Wagenblast for traffic.\n\nNotable radio personalities who have worked at the station include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2092182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092182", "title": "Kuttanellur", "text": "Kuttanellur\n\nKuttanellur is a residential area situated in the City of Thrissur in Kerala state of India. Kuttanellur is Ward 27 of Thrissur Municipal Corporation. It is around 6 km away from the Swaraj Round. Kuttanellur is home to Oushadhi, a Kerala Government undertaking for manufacturing Ayurvedic medicines and a \"Government Arts College\". It is accessible from Thrissur town and via NH 47, connecting Thrissur with Ernakulam. Nearest suburban areas are Mannuthy and Ollur. It is famous for its Bhagavathi temple and the annual Kuttanellur Pooram. Kuttanellur is home to Oushadhi, a Kerala Government undertaking for manufacturing Ayurvedic medicines and Sri C. Achutha Menon Government College.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092187", "title": "BATS Theatre", "text": "BATS Theatre\n\nBATS Theatre is an intimate theatre venue at 1 Kent Terrace in Wellington, New Zealand. It has been running since 1989, for over 30 years, and has seen the development of many performing arts talents of New Zealand. The name BATS is an acronym of Bane & Austin Touring Society. \n\nOriginally created by Rodney Bane and David Austin in the 1970's it has been used a performance venue since the 1940's. It used to be owned by The Savage Club and from 1944 to 1976 it was used as a dance hall and venue for amateur theatre company Unity Theatre. \n\nBATS was established in its present form by Simon Bennett and Simon Elson in 1989. BATS began as a venue for the work of young and emerging writers, directors and actors, many of whom were graduates of Toi Whakaari, New Zealand's National Drama School. Since 1989 the fundamental philosophy of BATS has been to build a new young audience for theatre by presenting diverse, relevant and challenging performance work. BATS focuses on being accessible for both its audience and incoming theatre companies, giving support to many developing arts practitioners and new New Zealand work.\n\nA significant theatre programme started in the 1990s at BATS is the \"Young and Hungry\" season, showcasing new writers and developing theatre talent. The successful annual season has grown to other cities in recent years with Auckland Theatre Company recently presenting productions of the same scripts. BATS also runs the \"STAB\" season annually. The venue is billed as the 'heart' of Wellington's annual New Zealand Fringe Festival. This festival was established at BATS in 1989, originally called The BATS Fringe Fest. It also participates in the annual NZ Comedy Festival, hosting both local and international acts.\n\nBATS Theatre is located in the central city of the country's capital, Wellington. Most of the productions at BATS Theatre are New Zealand works. Ninety per cent of its annual programme of 60 to 70 shows are New Zealand and world premieres. BATS is largely funded by Creative New Zealand and Wellington City Council. \n\nThe venue continues to be a home to much of Wellington's young and experimental theatrical talent, with titles such as \"On the Conditions and Possibilities of Helen Clark Taking Me as Her Young Lover\", \"The Intricate Art of Actually Caring\" and \"After Kafka\". BATS frequently hosts two or three different plays in one night.\n\nMany productions which started at BATS have gone on to gain national and international success, including many significant new New Zealand plays. Successful and memorable productions include the farce \"The Sex Fiend\" (1989) by Stephen Sinclair and Danny Mulheron, Ken Duncum's \"Blue Sky Boys\" (1991), \"Verbatim\" (1993) by Miranda Harcourt, \"Frangipani Perfume\" (1998) by Makerita Urale, \"Banging Cymbal, Clanging Gong\" (2002) by Jo Randerson, \"Vula\" (2002) directed by Nina Nawalowalo, \"And What Remains\" (2006) by Miria George and \"\" (2008) by Kip Chapman. \"Krishnan's Dairy\" by Jacob Rajan premiered at BATS in 1997 and is being adapted into a feature film.\n\nOther successful New Zealand names in theatre and comedy have presented early works at BATS, including Flight of the Conchords, Duncan Sarkies, Rhys Darby, So You're a Man, The Naked Samoans and Maori playwrights Hone Kouka and Riwia Brown. The comedy play \"Benedict Cumberbatch Must Die\" written by Abby Howells, premiered at BATS temporary 'Out of Site' venue in June 2014.\n\nThe BATS Theatre is located inside the iconic Royal Antediluvian Order of Buffaloes (RAOB) Lodge Building at 1 Kent Terrace Wellington City. The building was originally built for the Manchester Unity Independent Order of Oddfellows in the 1930s. It was later owned by the Savage Club. In the 1970s the Buffaloes purchased the building and it has served as the site of their lodge temple for Wellington City-based lodges ever since until it was sold in 2011. At that time the temple was home to the Kia Ora Lodge No 28, which is the second oldest RAOB Lodge in Wellington having been founded in 1925. The temple was also home to the Victory Lodge No 21 of the Grand Council section of the RAOB. Victory Lodge was established in 1944. The Lodge temple was located on the second floor of the building and is often used for rehearsal space for plays.\n\nThe building was purchased by film director Peter Jackson and Fran Walsh in 2011, and underwent extensive renovation and earthquake strengthening reopening at the renovated 1 Kent Terrace on 22 November 2014. There are now two new performance spaces, (three in total) as well as updated sound and lighting equipment and furnishings. The largest performance space has an audience capacity of just under 100 people.\n\nDuring the renovations BATS relocated to a temporary theatre space on Wellington's iconic Cuba Street. The temporary theatre and bar was branded BATS: Out of Site, and was in operation for 2013 and much of 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092194", "title": "Montesa", "text": "Montesa\n\nMontesa may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2092216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092216", "title": "Schwartzman", "text": "Schwartzman\n\nSchwartzman is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092226", "title": "One-man band", "text": "One-man band\n\nA one-man band is a musician who plays a number of instruments simultaneously using their hands, feet, limbs, and various mechanical or electronic contraptions. One-man bands also often sing while they perform. \n\nThe simplest type of \"one-man band\" is a singer accompanying themselves on acoustic guitar and playing a harmonica mounted in a metal \"harp rack\" below the mouth. This approach is often taken by buskers and folk music singer-guitarists. More complicated setups may include wind instruments strapped around the neck, a large bass drum mounted on the musician's back with a beater which is connected to a foot pedal, cymbals strapped between the knees or triggered by a pedal mechanism, tambourines and maracas tied to the limbs, and a stringed instrument strapped over the shoulders (e.g., a banjo, ukulele or guitar). \n\nSince the development of Musical Instrument Digital Interface (MIDI) in the 1980s, musicians have also incorporated chest-mounted MIDI drum pads, foot-mounted electronic drum triggers, and electronic pedal keyboards into their set-ups. In the 2000s and 2010s, the availability of affordable digital looping pedals has enabled singer-musicians to record a riff or chord progression and then solo or sing over it.\n\nThe earliest known records of multiple musical instruments being played at the same time date from the 13th century, and were the pipe and tabor. The pipe was a simple three-holed flute that could be played with one hand; the tabor is more commonly known today as a snare drum. This type of playing can still be heard in parts of rural France, in England and Spain. An Elizabethan-era woodcut shows a clown playing the pipe and tabor. An 1820s watercolour painting shows a one-man band with a rhythm-making stick, panpipes around his neck and a bass drum and tambourine beside him. Henry Mayhew's history of London street life in the 1840s and 1850s described a blind street performer who played bells, the violin and accordions.\n\nGuitarist Jim Garner played guitar with his hands and triangle with his feet, and Will Blankenship of the Blankenship Family of North Carolina played harmonica, autoharp and triangle in shows during the 1930s. In the 1940s, entertainer and clown Benny Dougal used a crude \"stump fiddle\" (a single string stretched on a stick) with a footpedal-operated pair of cymbals. Blues singers such as \"Daddy Stovepipe\" (Johnny Watson) would sing, play guitar, and stomp their feet for rhythm, or used a foot pedal to play bass drum or cymbal.\n\nOne of the earliest modern exponents of multiple instruments was Jesse Fuller. Fuller developed a foot-operated bass instrument which he called the \"footdella\", which had six bass strings which were struck by hammers. In \"one-man-band\" shows, Fuller would use his \"footdella\", a footpedal-operated \"sock\" (bass drum), a homemade neck harness (for a harmonica, kazoo and microphone), and a 12-string guitar. Fate Norris, of the Skillet Lickers, a hillbilly string band of the 1920s and early 1930s developed a geared mechanical contraption with footpedals that enabled him to play guitar, bells, bass fiddle, fiddle, autoharp and mouth harp.\n\nJoe Barrick, who was born in Oklahoma in 1922, wanted a way of accompanying himself on fiddle, so he built a contraption with a guitar neck on a board with footpedals to operate the notes. Subsequent versions of this \"piatar\" also had bass guitar and banjo necks and a snare drum which are played by foot-operated hammers. To change notes on the guitar-family instruments, a foot treadle operates a mechanical fretting device. Two notable one-man blues bands active in Memphis in the 1950s were Doctor Ross and Joe Hill Louis, playing guitar, harmonica and bass drum/high-hat.\n\nThe simple guitar and harmonica combination (as used by such musicians as Tex Williams, Anton Newcombe, Jimmy Reed, Bob Dylan, Neil Young, and Ray Dorset of Mungo Jerry) is so common now that it is rarely considered to be a one-man band. British-born Don Partridge made the classic one-man band outfit (bass drum on the back, guitar and harmonica) famous in the streets of Europe, and was an early busker to enter the Top Ten of the UK Singles Chart, with his hit singles \"Rosie\" and \"Blue Eyes\" in 1968. Modern one-man bands include such performers as Ben de la Garza, Hasil Adkins and Sterling Magee, better known as \"Mister Satan,\" from Satan and Adam. \n\nThe term \"one-man band\" is also colloquially used to describe a performer who plays every instrument on a recorded song one at a time, and then mixes them together in a multitrack studio. While this approach to recording is more common in electronica genres such as techno and acid house than traditional rock music, some rock performers such as Joe Hill Louis, Stevie Wonder, Prince, Lenny Kravitz, Paul McCartney, Kevin Parker, Kabir Suman, Dave Edmunds, John Fogerty, Emitt Rhodes, Todd Rundgren, Steve Winwood, Roy Wood, Nik Kershaw, and Les Fradkin have made records in which they play every instrument (one after the other). Mike Oldfield was noted for using this recording technique during the recording of his 1973 album \"Tubular Bells\". Other examples of a one-man band in the recording studio are Dave Grohl for the first studio album by the Foo Fighters, Trent Reznor for Nine Inch Nails, jazz piano player Keith Jarrett for his album \"No End\", Peter Tagtgren for Pain (musical project), Chris Carrabba for the first two albums released by Dashboard Confessional, Varg Vikernes for Burzum and Billy Corgan for Smashing Pumpkins since 2009.\n\nNash the Slash (1948-2014) played all instruments on his recordings. He also played solo concerts from 1975 to 2012, using synchronized drum machines and synthesizers as he plays either an electric violin or electric mandolin. Some artists record and mixed their music in a multitrack studio and synchronize it with video multitrack video playing on all instruments, creating a one-man band illusion.\n\nOne-man bands in this context have become more common in extreme metal, especially black metal, where a number of bands apart from Burzum consist of only one member. Such artists include Nargaroth, Xasthur, Falkenbach, Arckanum, Nortt, Horde, and others. While most of these bands do not play live, some such as Nargaroth hire additional musicians for live performances.\n\n\"One-woman band\" is not used very often in the vernacular, but women have increasingly had a presence as musicians in most forms of music. Examples of one-woman bands are Merrill Garbus, who performs as Tune-Yards and plays every instrument on all recordings , and Edith Crash who creates \"dark and haunting, drawn-out melodies\".\n\nIn the 2000s, as digital looping pedals became widely available, performers have been able to use a mixture of previously recorded music, delay effects, and looping devices in live performances of everything from beatboxing to classical violin. Live looping performers create layered looped accompaniment for musical solos that are sung or played later in the song. Using this technology, a simultaneous combination of various instruments and vocals, or one instrument played in different ways, can be created over the course of one musical piece which rivals the sounds of studio recording. Notable artists who incorporate this technique live include Ed Sheeran, Keller Williams, That 1 Guy, Zach Deputy, and KT Tunstall. Rick Walker is another looper and multi-instrumentalist who has organized looping festivals, including a long-running annual one in Santa Cruz, California, and others in various countries.\n\nSince the development of Musical Instrument Digital Interface (MIDI) in the 1980s, musicians have also incorporated chest-mounted MIDI drum pads, foot-mounted electronic drum triggers. Some \"one-man bands\" use organ-style pedal keyboards to perform basslines. A small number of MIDI enthusiasts use custom-made MIDI controllers connected to different parts of their bodies to trigger music on synthesizers. Custom-made MIDI controllers range from wind-operated controllers to small triggers mounted on the arms or feet. At a certain point, the use of body MIDI controllers may come to resemble performance art, because the musical sounds are triggered by the performer assuming certain poses or dancing. One of the pioneers of this performance art is McRorie Live Electronic, who uses drum sensors on his shoes, tom sensors on his chest, separate rhythm and bass keyboards and vocal lead instruments.\n\nWith the use of 2000s-era digital loop pedals, which can record and then repeat a short musical phrase, performers can play a riff or groove and then solo over the repeated loop. An example of this technique is by Canadian musician Jay Robinson who creates full band arrangements live.\nWith the rise in availability and affordability of electronic devices came innovation with the traditional acoustic \"one-man band\" instruments. One example is the Farmer Musical Instrument Co! based in the US. Pete Farmer sells acoustic foot-played percussion instruments that allow musicians to play a range of traditional drum kit sounds, the foot drum Deluxe, or tambourine and shaker pedals for tapping out simple beats. With the development of technology and prominence of video sharing sites like YouTube, musicians are now able to record each instrument individually and then compile a video as if it were all done in real time.\n\nThe term is also used in a general sense to refer to a person who runs a small business alone (a sole-proprietorship business), particularly if the operation requires that person to assume multiple different roles, in a manner akin to the way a musical \"one-man band\" performer plays different instruments and sings at the same time. In some small businesses, the owner also produces the product or service, markets it and delivers it to clients. In TV news, the phrase refers to a reporter who also functions as her own cameraperson via the use of a tripod.\n\nIn 2011, professional wrestler Heath Slater climbed to fame with the nickname \"The One-Man Rock Band\", which was later changed to \"The One-Man Southern Rock Band\" in reference to him being billed from West Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092229", "title": "Moonbase 3", "text": "Moonbase 3\n\nMoonbase 3 is a British science fiction television programme that ran for six episodes in 1973. It was a co-production between the BBC, 20th Century Fox and the American ABC network. Created by \"Doctor Who\" producer Barry Letts and script editor Terrance Dicks as a realistic alternative strand of TV science-fiction, it was not a commercial or critical success (Dicks himself has stated in a foreword to a collection of Tom Baker-era \"Doctor Who\" scripts that they \"overdid the grimness and forgot about the sense of wonder that science fiction is all about\").\n\nIt starred Donald Houston as Director David Caulder, who is appointed to the position after the previous director was killed while returning to Earth. Ralph Bates was Michel Lebrun, the Deputy Director, who was concerned about keeping to the rules. Fiona Gaunt played Doctor Helen Smith, the base's psychiatrist, and Barry Lowe played Tom Hill, the head of the base technical section.\n\nThe programme was notable for its combination of realistic spaceflight procedures, ensured by hiring BBC technical adviser James Burke, and its strong character-based writing. Although very dated in terms of its looks and assumptions about the future, it remains well regarded in retrospect.\n\n\"Moonbase 3\" was set in the year 2003 – some 30 years into the future at time of broadcast – and dramatised life in the enclosed environment of the titular moonbase. Five world powers have colonised the Moon: America (Moonbase 1, commanded by Bill Jackson), Russia (Moonbase 2), Europe (Moonbase 3), China (Moonbase 4, commanded by General Cheng) and Brazil (Moonbase 5). The European Moonbase 3 has been in existence for 8 years at the time the series starts. With oversight provided by the European Space Assembly and the European Aeronautics and Space Administration, Moonbase 3 is a shoestring operation when compared with the Russian and American efforts and much of base director David Caulder's job is to stave off budget cuts or a complete shutdown in the face of sceptical bureaucrats.\n\nAlongside technical problems such as stranded astronauts, explosive decompressions and failed experiments, the inhabitants of the moonbase must also deal with psychological problems arising from the cramped, dangerous environment they live in. In \"Departure and Arrival\", a mental breakdown suffered by a shuttle pilot has tragic consequences. \"Achilles Heel\" and \"Outsiders\" deal with the fallout from crew members' difficulty with living up to the standards they have set for themselves. \"Behemoth\" and \"View of a Dead Planet\" deal with forms of mass hysteria.\n\n\n\n\n\nTerrance Dicks and Barry Letts had been working together, as script editor and producer respectively, on \"Doctor Who\" since 1970. Dicks had begun his television writing career on \"The Avengers\" and \"Crossroads\" before joining \"Doctor Who\" as its script editor in 1968. Former actor Barry Letts had changed career into television direction in 1967 and had worked on series such as \"Z-Cars\" and \"The Newcomers\" before being asked to take over as producer of \"Doctor Who\" in 1970, where he first met Dicks. In 1972, looking to move on from \"Doctor Who\", the pair started considering a number of ideas for other shows they could collaborate on. Their first idea arose from the successful collaboration they had with the Royal Navy on the \"Doctor Who\" serial \"The Sea Devils\" which led to them considering pitching a serial set on a frigate only to find they were too late – the BBC had just commissioned a series, \"Warship\", with that very premise. In late 1972, they developed the concept of \"Moonbase 3\", as an anthology series set on a lunar colony that would \"provide intelligent, realistic drama rather than Science Fantasy\", and submitted a pilot script, titled \"Departure and Arrival\", to Shaun Sutton, the Head of Drama at the BBC. The series was formally commissioned in December 1972 and would be made, as a co-production between the BBC and 20th Century Fox and the ABC network in America, during the break in production between Seasons 10 and 11 of \"Doctor Who\".\n\nThe first \"Moonbase 3\" script to be formally commissioned was \"View of a Dead Planet\" on 15 December 1972. This was written by Arden Winch, a respected writer who had written for \"The Wednesday Play\". Two scripts, \"Behemoth\" and \"Outsiders\", were commissioned from John Brason, who had written for \"Colditz\" and \"Special Branch\". The final two scripts, \"The Dark Side of the Moon\" and \"The Gentle Rain\" (later renamed \"Castor and Pollux\" and \"Achilles Heel\" respectively), were commissioned from John Lucarotti, a prolific writer whose credits included \"The Avengers\", \"Doctor Who\" and \"The Troubleshooters\". Lastly, Letts and Dicks retrospectively commissioned themselves in late May 1973 for their pilot script \"Departure and Arrival\".\n\nIn order to achieve a high level of realism, Letts and Dicks hired a technical advisor, James Burke, a science correspondent who was well known to television viewers thanks to his work as anchorman on the television coverage of the Apollo moon landings and for presenting science series such as \"Tomorrow's World\" and \"The Burke Special\". Burke decided that 2003 would be a realistic date for bases to have been established on the Moon, telling the \"Radio Times\" that \"Men won't go back to the Moon until the 1990s. Neither the Russians nor the Americans have any plans at present and no-one else can afford it. [...] As for the base itself – it should look exactly as it would if they built one tomorrow. [...] They'd be small, supporting 30 or 40 men and running on a shoestring. [...] It'll be like life on a nuclear submarine\".\n\nCast as David Caulder was Donald Houston, an experienced character actor, who had appeared in \"633 Squadron\" and \"The Longest Day\", and was known for playing authority figures. Ralph Bates, who was cast as Michel Lebrun, had first made a name for himself playing the Emperor Caligula in the Granada Television series \"The Caesars\" but was best known as a regular actor in the Hammer horror stable. Fiona Gaunt, playing Helen Smith, had been in a television adaptation of \"War and Peace\" while Barry Lowe, playing Tom Hill, had been a regular on the police drama \"Z-Cars\".\n\nTwo directors were assigned to the series – Ken Hannam and Christopher Barry. Hannam had previously directed such series as \"Colditz\" and \"Paul Temple\" while Barry had worked extensively on \"Doctor Who\", having directed some 31 episodes at the time, including the stories \"The Dæmons\" and \"The Mutants\" for Letts and Dicks, as well as episodes of \"Out of the Unknown\", \"Paul Temple\" and \"The Onedin Line\". Hannam and Barry alternated directing the episodes between them with filming on \"Moonbase 3\" beginning on 24 April 1973 at the BBC film studios in Ealing. The Ealing filming mainly centred around the scenes set on the lunar surface which proved a difficult experience for the actors. Star Donald Houston told the \"Radio Times\" that the spacesuits got \"hot and claustrophobic. In the end they had to have oxygen standing by. [...] the dust rose in clouds and the cameramen all wore surgical masks. The actors just choked\". Recalling his guest appearance on \"Moonbase 3\", in the episode \"Behemoth\", Peter Miles told \"TV Zone\" in 1991 that he was \"asked to be like a gazelle and leap as I came down the hillock in full astronaut gear. [...] The tech crew wondered why I was steaming up furiously in my astronaut's head. They'd forgotten to put air holes into the helmet. [...] I said, 'Help help! Help help! I'm not breathing folks!' They took the helmet off before drilling the holes or I wouldn't be here now\". Filming continued at Ealing until 30 May 1973 before production moved to BBC Television Centre for the remaining scenes, mostly those set inside the moonbase, which would be recorded on videotape beginning on 18 June 1973. The episodes were recorded in a different order than that in which they were broadcast with \"Departure and Arrival\" recorded first followed by \"Castor and Pollux\", \"Behemoth\", \"View of a Dead Planet\", \"Outsiders\" and, lastly, \"Achilles Heel\" with recording wrapping on 15 August 1973. Music was provided by Dudley Simpson who, at this time, was the regular composer on \"Doctor Who\". Simpson composed the main title theme that accompanied the opening and closing credits as well as approximately 60 minutes of incidental music.\n\n\"Moonbase 3\" was promoted by the \"Radio Times\" on the week of broadcast with a two-page article by Mike Bygrave, titled \"The Facts of Life on the Moon\", that interviewed James Burke about his ideas of life on the Moon and also spoke to star Donald Houston, dresser Leslie Hallam and costume designer Dee Kelly about their experiences making the show. Broadcast on Sunday nights at 7:25pm on BBC One, audience reaction to the series was disappointing with the debut episode garnering under 6 million viewers and ratings slipping as low as 2 million in subsequent weeks before stabilising at 4 million. A BBC Audience Research report slated the series as \"banal, predictable and slow\". Reviewing \"Departure and Arrival\" in \"The Observer\", Clive James described the plot as \"the Yangtze Incident plus liquid oxygen\".\n\nAs was normal procedure at the BBC at the time, the original PAL master tapes of the series were wiped some time after broadcast and, for many years, \"Moonbase 3\" was believed to be lost forever. However, in 1993, NTSC copies of all six episodes were found in co-producer Fox's archives and returned to the BBC. The series was subsequently released on VHS videotape over three volumes in 1994 by BBC Video and on DVD in 2002 by Second Sight.\n\nTerrance Dicks has felt that \"Moonbase 3\" was ultimately a failure: \"The trouble was we built a too restrictive format for ourselves\" and that the series \"lacked a sense of wonder and outrageousness\". Academic Peter Wright has said about \"Moonbase 3\" that its \"appeal to realism resulted in a disquieting sense of claustrophobia and isolation that undermined the optimism of its premise and captured the general mood of insularity felt (and often desired) in Britain in the early 1970s\". \"Moonbase 3\", although not directly influential, can be seen as an antecedent of similar realistic, near-future, British space series such as \"Star Cops\" and \"Space Island One\".\n\nSix episodes of \"Moonbase 3\" were made and broadcast on BBC One on Sunday nights at 7:25pm from 9 September 1973.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092237", "title": "Latino-Faliscan languages", "text": "Latino-Faliscan languages\n\nThe Latino-Faliscan or Latino-Venetic languages are a group of languages spoken by the Latino-Faliscan people of Italy beginning 1200 BC, belonging to the Italic languages, and are a group of the Indo-European languages.\n\nLatin and Faliscan belong to the group as well as two others often considered to be archaic Latin dialects: Lanuvian and Praenestine.\n\nLatin eventually absorbed ideas from the others and replaced Faliscan as the power of Ancient Rome grew. All of the other languages other than Latin went extinct as Latin became dominant. Latin, in turn, via Vulgar Latin, developed into the numerous Romance languages, which are now spoken by more than 800 million people worldwide, largely due to the influence of the French, Spanish and Portuguese Empires.\n\nLatin and Faliscan have several innovations with Italic:\n\nSome differences are that Latin and Faliscan retain the Indo-European labiovelars /*kʷ, *gʷ/ as \"qu-, gu-\" (they would later become velars + semivocal), while in Osco-Umbrian, they become labial \"p, b\". In addition, Latin also shows the evolution of \"ou\" into \"ū\" (Latin \"lūna\" < Proto-Italic \"*louksnā\" < PIE \"*lówksneh₂\" \"moon\").\n\nA morphological innovation shared by Latin and Faliscan is the use of the accusative suffix \"-d\", seen in \"med\" (\"me\", accusative), which is not present in Osco-Umbrian.\n\nThe consonant inventory of Proto-Latino-Faliscan would be basically identical to that of archaic Latin. Consonants not found in the Praeneste fibula are marked with an asterisk:\nThe /kʷ/ sound still had to exist in archaic Latin when the alphabet was developed where the minimum pair comes from: \"quī\" /kʷī/ (\"who\", nominative) - \"cuī\" /ku.ī/ (\"to whom\", dative). Note that in other positions no attempt is made to distinguish between diphthongs and hiatuses: \"persuādere\" (\"to persuade\") is a diphthong but \"sua\" (\"his\"/\"her\") is a hiatus. For reasons of symmetry, it is quite possible that many sequences of \"gu\" in archaic Latin will in fact represent a voiced labiovelar /gʷ/.\n\nInitially, the Indo-Europeanists had been inclined to postulate a belonging to a unitary linguistic family for the various Indo-European languages of ancient Italy, parallel to that of Celtic or Germanic; the founder of this hypothesis is considered Antoine Meillet (1866–1936).\n\nStarting from the work of Alois Walde (1869–1924), however, this unitary scheme has been subjected to radical criticism; decisive, in this sense, were the arguments put forward by Vittore Pisani (1899–1990) and, later also by Giacomo Devoto (1897–1974), who postulated the existence of two distinct Indo-European branches in which it is possible to inscribe the Italic languages. Variously reformulated in the years following the Second World War, the various hypotheses concerning the existence of two different Indo-European families have definitively imposed themselves, even if the specific traits that separate or close them, as well as the exact processes of formation and penetration into Italy, remain the object of research by historical linguistics.\n\nThe Latino-Faliscan languages were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092260", "title": "Pierre Perret", "text": "Pierre Perret\n\nPierre Perret (born 9 July 1934 in Castelsarrasin, Tarn-et-Garonne) is a French singer and composer. Pierre Perret resides in the city of Nangis.\n\nHe spent a long part of his childhood in the café which his parents owned, where he learned to work with jargon and slang.\nAt the age of 14 he signed up to the \"conservatoire de musique de Toulouse\" and to a dramatic arts institute. But he wasn't admitted to the Conservatoire national supérieur de musique et de danse de Paris because he had some problems with military justice during his military service. In the meantime, he set up his first band of four musicians in his own name, with whom he played at events throughout the region. In 1957, he was snapped up by Eddie Barclay who signed him on. It was in the studio of Barclay where he met his future wife, Simone Mazaltarim.\n\nIn 1958, Perret carried on touring round Parisian cabaret bars and crossed France and Africa as a part of the American group, The Platters. In November that year, a pleurisy forced him to take two years off in a sanatorium.\n\nA master of the subtleties of the French language and French slang (he even rewrote some of Jean de La Fontaine's fables), his songs are often cheeky (for example \"Le zizi\" (\"The willy\")), asking questions in a seemingly naive child's tone, but has written more serious political songs, such as \"La bête est revenue\", \"La petite kurde\", \"Vert de Colère\" or \"Lily\".\n\nIn 1995, he recorded in duet with Sophie Darel the French song \"Maître Pierre\" for the album \"C'était les Années Bleues\".\n\nHe participated in the committee for the simplification of the administrative language (COSLA).\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Capitaine Marleau\", French television crime drama series; \n(2018, Season 1 Episode 12, 23 October, \"Double Jeu\", \"Double Dealing\", as Monsieur Pellison); https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capitaine_Marleau\n\n"}
{"id": "2092262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092262", "title": "Marco Pinotti", "text": "Marco Pinotti\n\nMarco Pinotti (born 25 February 1976 in Osio Sotto, Lombardy) is an Italian former road racing cyclist, who competed as a professional between 1999 and 2013. An individual time trial specialist, Pinotti was a six-time Italian Time Trial Champion (2005, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2013).\n\nAs an amateur he won 28 races before turning professional in 1999 with the team. He won the Grand Prix d'Europa in 1999 together with his teammate Raivis Belohvoščiks and the 5th stage of the 2000 Tour de Pologne.\n\nIn 2001 he finished second in stage 15 of the Tour de France behind Belgian Rik Verbrugghe. He had surgery on his ulna in November 2001 and started training again only in February 2002. He returned to competition in April 2002.\n\nThe 2003 season brought some victories as he won the 4th stage in the Tour of the Basque Country and the King of the Mountains classification. In the Bici Vasca he crashed and broke his pelvis, forcing recuperation. He has since fully recovered. His speciality is in individual time trials.\n\nPinotti joined the then newly formed Spanish team team in 2005. He won the Italian National Time Trial Championship in 2005. Pinotti came second to Luca Ascani in the 2007 Italian National time trials but Ascani was found to have tested positive for EPO and Pinotti was awarded the jersey. Pinotti retained the title in 2008.\n\nAt the 2007 Giro d'Italia, Pinotti placed second in stage six to Spoleto and took over the leader's pink jersey. He held it for four stages. In 2008, he won the final stage time trial, and again in 2012. In 2009 and 2011, he help his teams win the team time trial. The result in 2011 helped him take over the pink jersey for one day.\n\nIn 2008, Pinotti joined team Highroad, which became Columbia HighRoad in 2009 and HTC-Columbia in 2010.\n\nPinotti joined the for 2012 following the disbanding of the team. At the end of the year, he released a book, \"Il Mestiere Del Ciclista Una Vita In Bicicletta (The Cycling Professor)\".\n\nIn October 2013 Pinotti announced that he would retire from racing after competing in the Tour of Beijing and Chrono des Nations, transitioning to a position in the Sports Science division of .\n\nGrand Tour general classification results timeline\n\n"}
{"id": "2092281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092281", "title": "Germania (personification)", "text": "Germania (personification)\n\nGermania is the personification of the German nation or the Germans as a whole, most commonly associated with the Romantic Era and the Revolutions of 1848, though the figure was later used by Imperial Germany.\n\n\"Germania\" is the Latin name of the country called \"Deutschland\" in the spoken language of its own inhabitants, though used as the country's name in various other languages, such as \"Germany\" in English. In the country itself, the use of the Latin \"Germania\" was mainly literary and poetical, linked with patriotic and nationalist feelings, like \"Hibernia\" for Ireland, \"Caledonia\" for Scotland, \"Lusitania\" for Portugal etc. \n\nGermania as personification is usually depicted as a robust woman with long, flowing, reddish-blonde hair and wearing armour. She often wields the \"Reichsschwert\" (imperial sword), and possesses a medieval-style shield that sometimes bears the image of a black eagle on a gold field. Additionally, she is sometimes shown as carrying or wearing the Imperial Crown of the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nIn post-1918 images, the banner she holds is the black-red-gold flag of modern Germany, but in depictions from 1871 to 1918 it is the black-white-red flag of the German Empire.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092284", "title": "Asier del Horno", "text": "Asier del Horno\n\nAsier del Horno Cosgaya (born 19 January 1981) is a Spanish retired footballer who played as a left back.\n\nAfter solid displays with Athletic Bilbao, for which he appeared in 126 official games in five years scoring 17 goals, he moved to Chelsea in England, where he won the Premier League in the 2005–06 season.\n\nSubsequently, del Horno – who missed the 2006 World Cup with Spain due to a last-minute injury – returned to his country with Valencia, who loaned him to several clubs for the duration of his contract. He dealt with several physical problems in the latter part of his career, amassing La Liga totals of 187 matches and 15 goals.\n\nBorn in Barakaldo, Biscay, del Horno began his career at Athletic Bilbao in 1999, where his combative tackling and strength in the air saw him rise through the ranks as a left-footed central defender. However, his pace and ability to contribute to the attack led to his being switched to the flank by the time he had arrived in the seniors for both club and country.\n\nDel Horno made his first-team debut in the 2000–01 opener at only 19, and finished his first season at the San Mamés Stadium with 14 games to help the Basques finish in 12th position.\n\nIn June 2005, del Horno moved to Chelsea for a fee of £8 million. He won the first and only league championship of his career with the \"Blues\", as part of the squad that conquered the Premier League title.\n\nDuring his spell at Stamford Bridge, del Horno played 34 overall matches and scored once, against Tottenham Hotspur at White Hart Lane in a 2–0 victory on 27 August 2005. The following 22 February, late into the first half of a UEFA Champions League round-of-16 clash at home against FC Barcelona, he received a straight red card for a foul on Lionel Messi, as his team went on to lose the match 1–2 and the tie 2–3.\n\nOn 21 July 2006, del Horno returned to Spain to sign for Valencia CF on a six-year contract worth €8 million, seen as a natural replacement for Amedeo Carboni who had retired at 41. Athletic Bilbao had expressed interest, but withdrew from further negotiations, forfeiting any further financial advantage; following surgery on his injured Achilles heel, which kept him off the pitches for most of the season, he made his debut for his new team on 3 March 2007 in a 1–0 home win over RC Celta de Vigo.\n\nDel Horno was placed on the transfer list by manager Quique Sánchez Flores, as the latter announced that the defender would not retain his position for 2007–08. In the last day of the transfer window, he agreed to join his former club Athletic on a one-year loan deal, returning to Valencia after an injury-filled campaign. At the \"Che\", his physical problems persisted and, after an unassuming first half of 2009–10 – only played in the Copa del Rey and only when facing rivals of smaller entity – he was loaned to Real Valladolid until the end of the season, on 30 January; an undisputed starter since his arrival, he could not however prevent the Castile and León side from returning to Segunda División, after a three-year stay in the top division.\n\nFor 2010–11, 29-year-old del Horno was loaned once again, joining freshly promoted side Levante UD. He was used regularly in both defensive positions as the Valencians eventually retained their league status, but also missed the final stretch due to physical ailments which had been bothering him since early into the campaign.\n\nUpon returning to Valencia, del Horno's contract was immediately terminated. In early August 2011, he re-joined Levante on a permanent deal.\n\nAfter again dealing with injury throughout the season, where he was not able to dislodge 35-year-old Juanfran from the left-back position, del Horno was released.\n\nDel Horno made his Spain debut on 3 September 2004, against Scotland. He scored the winner in a 1–0 friendly with England played in Madrid, two months later.\n\nAn ankle injury forced del Horno to withdraw from the 23-man squad named by Luis Aragonés for the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany. Medical staff in the Royal Spanish Football Federation alleged that Chelsea had prior knowledge of the former's injury, but allowed him to continue playing; subsequently, his vacant position was controversially filled in by naturalised Argentinian Mariano Pernía, of Getafe CF.\n\nDel Horno also represented the Basque Country regional team.\n\nChelsea\n\n"}
{"id": "2092292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092292", "title": "Central Board", "text": "Central Board\n\nAfter the Act of Union 1800, Ireland was under direct rule from England. The Act of Emancipation had slightly improved the position of the Catholics. However the campaign for Repeal of the Union led by Daniel O'Connell had failed. \n\nThe struggle for reform of land ownership had taken center stage. Land reform was important as it directly affected the lives of ordinary people. \nHowever, there was still a need to create meaningful political structures which would have introduced a measure of self-government to Ireland. The form of these structures was a matter of division and debate.\n\nThe Central Board scheme was developed by Joseph Chamberlain in 1884-1885. This would have offered a form of local government which it is argued would have fallen considerably short of legislative independence. The exact structure of the Board was subject to negotiation, however it was proposed to be indirectly elected with membership drawn from the existing county councils and powers mainly over local government issues. Chamberlain had received some support from the Catholic bishops. His contact with Charles Parnell was ironically Captain O'Shea who led him to believe that this would be acceptable as a final settlement.\n\nHowever Chamberlain's proposal was too radical for Gladstone who had not yet accepted the merits of Home Rule for Ireland. Lack of support led him to tender his resignation. Later in 1886 he was an opponent of the Home Rule Bill. Rejection of his Central Board scheme may have created personal feelings of bitterness towards the Irish Parliamentary Party.\n\nJoseph Chamberlain was a leading Liberal who had been a successful businessman and had led the reform of the administration of the City of Birmingham, England. He also served in the important post of President of the Board of Trade.\n\nAll Ireland proposal, would have given good experience to Irish politicians and a Forum as an alternative to the parliamentary delaying tactics utilized in struggle for Home Rule.\n\nPowers to be devolved were strictly limited and mere local autonomy would have been opposed by militants.\n"}
{"id": "2092295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092295", "title": "Strega (liqueur)", "text": "Strega (liqueur)\n\nLiquore Strega is an Italian herbal liqueur produced since 1860 by the S. A. Distilleria Liquore Strega in Benevento, Campania, Italy. Its yellow color comes from the presence of saffron. Strega is bottled at 80 proof (40% ABV) and among its approximately 70 herbal ingredients are mint and fennel. Strega is considered a digestif.\n\n\"Strega\" has a similar appearance to Galliano (though less vibrantly yellow). It is slightly sweet, semi-viscous, and has a bold, complex flavor with strong minty or coniferous notes. Strega is used for flavoring \"torta caprese\", a type of cake.\n\nStrega was developed in 1860 by the father–son team of Carmine Vincenzo Alberti and Giuseppe Alberti. The company experienced growth until Giuseppe Alberti's death in 1894. Alberti's four sons Ugo, Vincenzo, Francesco and Luigi took control. The company received a royal warrant of appointment to the Italian King.\n\nStrega became well known for its colourful and artistic advertising. One poster was designed in 1906 by in the art nouveau style. \"Strega\" is the Italian word for \"witch\" and since legends of witchcraft at Benevento date back to the time of the Lombard invasion, it was a natural choice of name for the liqueur. The liqueur is sometimes called \"the witch\" in the English-speaking world.\n\nThe Premio Strega (Strega Prize), the most prestigious literary award in Italy today, was founded in 1947 by Guido Alberti, then owner of the company, together with his friends the writer Maria Bellonci and her husband Goffredo.\n\nThe San Francisco World Spirits Competition, one of several international spirit ratings organizations, has evaluated Strega liqueur on three occasions since 2005. The ratings organization gave the spirit gold medals in 2005 and 2011 and a silver medal in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "2092301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092301", "title": "Castelsarrasin", "text": "Castelsarrasin\n\nCastelsarrasin (; ) is a commune in the Tarn-et-Garonne department in Occitanie region of France. The inhabitants are called \"Castelsarrasinois\". It is the second most populous commune in Tarn-et-Garonne after Montauban.\n\nThe first certain evidence of the town dates from 961. The name, \"Castel Sarracenum\", would indicate that the castle was built in the Saracen era. The early history of the city is marked by wars; against the English until the end of the 12th century, then the Albigensian Crusade during the first part of the 13th century, and then the Shepherd's Crusade of 1320 that resulted in the deaths of many Jews in the city. The region was much affected by the Hundred Years' War, and again, during the wars of religion of the 16th century, the city's largely Catholic population was in frequent conflict with the generally Protestant surrounding region. \n\nThe region is calmer during the following centuries, up to the time of the French Revolution.\n\nCastelsarrasin was the finish of Stage 17 in the 2007 Tour de France.\n\n\n\nCastelsarrasin is the sub-prefecture of the department.\n\nBernard Dagen, pharmacist by profession, has been mayor since 1989.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092312", "title": "Colourbox (1983 album)", "text": "Colourbox (1983 album)\n\nColourbox is the debut mini-album from Colourbox, released by 4AD in November 1983. \"MAD 315\" is the album's catalogue number, used to distinguish it from their 1985 self-titled album, although the mini-album is sometimes referred to as \"Horses Fucking\" due to the cover image. It was reissued on CD in 1986 with four additional tracks compiled from the band's singles.\n\nThe track \"The Official Colourbox World Cup Theme\" was originally intended as a football theme, and almost lived up to its name when it was up for consideration as the theme for BBC's World Cup Grandstand during the broadcast of the 1986 FIFA World Cup in Mexico. That honour, however, went to the song \"Aztec Lightning\" by Heads.\n\n\"Looks Like We're Shy One Horse\"/\"Shoot Out\" features samples from the 1968 spaghetti western \"Once Upon a Time in the West\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092333", "title": "Barrel roof", "text": "Barrel roof\n\nA barrel roof is a curved roof that, especially from below, is curved like a cut-away barrel. They have some advantages over dome roofs, especially being able to cover rectangular buildings., due to their uniform cross-section.\n\nBarrel vaults are a particular form of barrel roof.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092351", "title": "William Foulkes", "text": "William Foulkes\n\nWilliam Foulkes (died 1691) was a seventeenth-century Welsh cleric and writer.\n\nFoulkes was the son of a clergyman named John Foulkes, and was educated at Jesus College, Oxford, matriculating in 1650. He graduated in 1653, became rector of Cwm in Denbighshire in 1660, and rector of Llanfyllin and of Llanbrynmair in 1661, holding these positions until his death. He added the position of rector of Llanfihangel-yng-Ngwynfa after 1680. He was also appointed a canon of St Asaph in 1662. He helped to prepare Bishop George Griffith's \"\" (an exposition of the Lord's Prayer) for publication in 1685, and translated Bishop Thomas Ken's \"Practice of Divine Love\" into Welsh in 1688. He died in Llanfyllin in 1691, and was buried there on 9 January. His son, also called William, also attended Jesus College.\n"}
{"id": "2092361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092361", "title": "Hróa þáttr heimska", "text": "Hróa þáttr heimska\n\nHróa þáttr heimska or the \"Tale of Roi the Fool\" is a short story (\"þáttr\") from Iceland about a Dane called Hrói the Fool who is helped in a legal dispute by the wise old Swede Þorgnýr the Lawspeaker, and which takes place in the late 10th century. It is preserved in two versions of which one (\"HróFlat\") is found in Flatey Book (GKS 1005 fol 344-348, ca 1387-1395) and the second one (\"Hró AM 557 4°\") in the Skálholtsbók (AM 557 4° 41r-42v, ca 1420-1450) in Copenhagen.\n\nIn the version of \"Óláfs saga helga\" which is found in the Flatey Book, it is inserted together with \"Styrbjarnar þáttr Svíakappa\" in the description of Olaf Haraldsson's wooing of the Swedish princess Ingegerd Olofsdotter. Their purpose appears to be to present the Swedish court, its traditions and Þorgnýr the Lawspeaker.\n\nHe had one blue eye and one black eye, and he was a skilled smith and trader. However, each time his trade had made him wealthy, he went to sea and lost it all. The third time, he went to king Sweyn and asked him to be his business partner. The king consented although his court advised him not to deal with such an unlucky man as Hrói.\n\nHowever, the king's good luck prevailed over Hrói's back luck and Hrói became a wealthy man, and one day he shared the wealth with the king and finished their partnership, against the king's wishes who'd rather he stay at the court and marry.\n\nThen he went to Sweden and struck a deal with Helgi a red-haired courtier of king Eric the Victorious. However, after the deal had been made and the goods delivered, Hrói came to fetch the merchandise, and discovered that Helgi had tricked him. Helgi said that he had delivered the goods, but Hrói had not been there to fetch them and so Helgi had taken them back. Helgi also stated that Hrói had broken the king's law by not guarding his goods, so that a thief might steal them.\n\nThen Hrói met Helgi's brother Þorgils who took Hrói's knife claiming that Hrói had taken it from him in Normandy. Then he met Helgi's second brother, Þorir, a one-eyed man who claimed that Hrói had taken one of his eyes from him at Samsø with magic and that this was why Hrói had different eyes. Þorir then said that Hrói was to be at the thing and to be sentenced by the king for stealing his eye and for stealing his brother's knife. The two men then parted, but the next day Hrói overheard some men saying that Hrói was about to be before the king and that the king always judged in favour of Helgi and his brothers.\n\nHe then met a beautiful girl called Sigrbjörg who had heard of him as Hrói the Fool, and she said that she was the daughter of Þorgnýr the Lawspeaker and that he was no friend of Helgi and his brothers. She then invited Hrói to hide in her bower and to listen what was said. Hrói hid and heard Þorgnýr the Lawspeaker arrive. Þorgnýr asked his daughter if she know whether Hrói would be at the thing the next day. He also asked her why she sighed so heavily and guessed that she had met Hrói and discovered that he was a good man. Þorgnýr said that he would be at the thing the next day and see to it that justice was done against the three brothers. When Þorgnýr was gone, Sigrbjörg told Hrói to join her father the next day.\n\nThe next day Hrói accompanied Þorgnýr the Lawspeaker to the court at Uppsala and Þorgnýr presided the interrogation. On the accusation from Helgi, Hrói answered that he had bought everything that was in the warehouse, but Helgi had not kept his part of the bargain since he had not delivered the moths and the other bugs in it. Consequently, he had the right to have Helgi as his thrall, and this was seconded by Þorgnýr.\n\nOn Þorgil's accusation that Hrói had stealen his knife in Normandy, Hrói retorted that he remembered this man and that he had murdered his brother Sigurd. Þorgnýr stated that such men deserved death.\n\nConcerning Þorir's accusation of the stolen eye, Hrói suggested that the stolen eye be removed from his head, and the last eye from Þorir's head. Then the eyes would be weighed and if they weighed equally it would be proven that they came from the same head, and that Hrói had stolen Þorir's eye. If Þorir would not agree to this, he would be proven a liar in this case and in others.\n\nHowever, Þorir did not agree on this procedure, and so Þorgnýr stated that those three men were wicked and unmanly and had too long weaved webs of lies around them. They had also too long been trusted by the king, and that there was no longer any other decision by the king to make than to give the three brothers as the property of Hrói. King Eric the Victorious agreed. Hrói then sentenced Þorgils and Þorir to death and banished Helgi from Sweden for life.\n\nHrói asked Þorgnýr for his daughter's hand and married her. He returned to Denmark with his goods and told Swein Forkbeard about the events and gave him many Swedish goods. Hrói and the king would remain friends for life.\n\nHowever, when Hrói returned to Sweden he found his father-in-law Þorgnýr the Lawspeaker dead, but his son Þorgnýr had succeeded him as lawspeaker, and this Þorgnýr was the wisest of men. Hrói and his brother-in-law Þorgnýr the Lawspeaker shared the inheritance in concord and Hrói was considered by all to be an excellent man. Many Swedish noble families were descended from him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092367", "title": "Sanjan, Gujarat", "text": "Sanjan, Gujarat\n\nSanjan is a town situated in Umbergaon taluka in the Valsad district in the state of Gujarat, India. Sanjan is located around 70 km from the Valsad city. It is the earliest settlement of the Parsis in India.\n\nSanjan Bandar, also called old Sanjan is the initial settlement. Sanjan is situated on the banks of Varoli River.\n\nThe town is served by Sanjan railway station which lies on New Delhi–Mumbai main line. The nearest airport is Surat Airport in Surat.\n\nSanjan is believed to have been founded by Zoroastrian refugees who sought asylum in Gujarat in 698 AD. A widely believed legend is that the Zoroastrians were offered a filled pot of milk by Jadi Rana, the King of Sanjan to signify that his kingdom was full. In response, the Zoroastrians poured sugar into the milk without spilling any milk, stating they would adapt to the kingdom and cause no disorder, to which the King agreed. Those Zoroastrians, whose descendants are today known as the Parsis (since they came from Pars/Persia), are thought to have named the settlement after Sanjan in Greater Khorasan, the city of their origin. \n\nSanjan was captured by Mahmud Begada of the Delhi Sultanate in the 1480s. Later, Sanjan was captured and became part of the Portuguese Northern Provinces until it was captured by the Marathas under Chimnaji Appa in his campaign against the Portuguese (1733–39). Sanjan fell to British forces during 18th century. It became part of Bombay State upon independence of India, and later became part of Gujarat.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2004, the World Zarathushti Cultural Foundation (WZCF) (Mumbai) and the Indian Archaeological Society (IAS) (New Delhi), conducted three seasons of archaeological excavations at the ancient mounds immediately North and East of Sanjan Bandar. The excavation Directors were (late) Dr S P Gupta of the IAS and Dr Kurush F Dalal. Three years (2002, 2003 & 2004) of excavations have revealed a large city (approx 2 km x 1 km) on the banks of the Varoli Creek/River which was occupied from the 8th to the 13th centuries AD. The houses were made of burnt brick and had solid stone foundations, they were equipped with sophisticated drainage in the form of adjacent Ringwells. That the city was involved directly in the trade activities of the Indian Ocean littoral is evidenced by the large amounts of West Asian and Chinese ceramics as also by the numerous numismatic finds and the large amounts of West Asian glassware and beads. West Asian ceramics identified for the first time include Sassanian-Islamic Turquoise Glazed Ware, sgraffito ware, Kashan Lustre ware, Tin glazed ware and other associated wares like Celadon. Chinese wares like eggshell ware, Yeuh and Qingbai porcelains and glazed stoneware were also recovered though in smaller numbers. The ceramics were studied and published by Dr. Rukshana Nanji. The published report is the first volume in the Sanjan Excavation Report Series. The glass was studied by Ms. Rhea Mitra-Dalal. Human remains were studied by Dr Veena Mushrif-Tripathi and published as the second volume in the series. The site has also yielded the first definitive proof of Parsi (Zoroastrian) occupation at Sanjan in the form of a \"dokhma\" or Tower of Silence (a uniquely Zoroastrian mortuary structure). The excavations and explorations have also yielded interesting art historical data in the form of Hindu (Shilahara Period) sculptural and structural remains.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092372", "title": "Fang people", "text": "Fang people\n\nThe Fang people, also known as Fãn or Pahouin, are a Central African ethnic group found in Equatorial Guinea, northern Gabon, and southern Cameroon. Representing about 85% of the total population of Equatorial Guinea, concentrated in the Río Muni region, the Fang people are its largest ethnic group. The Fang are also the largest ethnic group in Gabon, making up about a quarter of the population. In other countries, in the regions they live, they are one of the most significant and influential ethnic groups.\n\nThe Fang people speak the Fang language, also known as Pahouin or Pamue or Pangwe. The language is a Southern Bantu language belonging to the Niger-Congo family of languages. The Fang language is similar and intelligible with languages spoken by Beti-Pahuin peoples, namely the Beti people to their north and the Bulu people in central. Their largest presence is in the southern regions, up to the Ogooué River estuary where anthropologists refer them also as \"Fang proper\".\n\nThey have preserved their history largely through a musical oral tradition. Many Fang people are fluent in Spanish, French, German and English, a tradition of second language they developed during the Spanish colonial rule in Equatorial Guinea, the French colonial rule in Gabon and the German-later-British colonial rule in Cameroon.\n\nThe Fang people are relatively recent migrants into the Equatorial Guinea, and many of them moved from central Cameroon in the 19th century.\n\nEarly ethnologists conjectured them to be Nilotic peoples from the upper Nile area, but a combination of evidence now places them to be of Bantu origins who began moving back into Africa around the seventh or eighth century possibly because of invasions from the north and the wars of West Africa and sub-Saharan Africa. Their migration may be related to an attempt to escape the violence of slave raiding by the Hausa people, but this theory has been contested.\n\nThe Fang people were victims of the large transatlantic and trans-Saharan slave trade between the 16th and 19th century. They were stereotyped as cannibals by slave traders and missionaries, in part because human skulls and bones were found in open or in wooden boxes near their villages, a claim used to justify violence against them and their enslavement. When their villages were raided, thousands of their wooden idols and villages were burnt by the slave raiders. Later ethnologists who actually spent time with the Fang people later discovered that the Fang people were not cannibalistic, the human bones in open and wooden boxes were of their ancestors, and were Fang people's method of routine remembrance and religious reverence for their dead loved ones.\n\nThey have a patrilineal kinship social structure. The villages have been traditionally linked through lineage. They are exogamous, particularly on the father's side. Polygamy was accepted in the culture of the Fang people. The independence of villages from each other is notable, and they are famed for their knowledge of animals, plants and herbs in the Equatorial forests they live in. They are traditionally farmers and hunters, but became major cocoa farmers during the colonial era.\n\nUnder French colonial rule, they converted to Christianity. However, after independence their interest in their own traditional religion, called \"Biere\", also spelled \"Byeri\", has returned, and many practice syncretic ideas and rites. One of the syncretic traditions among Fang people is called \"Bwiti\", a monotheistic religion that celebrates Christian Easter but over four days with group dancing, singing and psychedelic drinks.\n\nThe art works of Fang people, particularly from wood, iron and steatite, are regionally famous. Their wooden masks and idol carvings are on display at numerous museums of the world.\n\nThe art works of Fang people, particularly from wood, iron and steatite, are regionally famous. Their wooden masks and idol carvings are on display at numerous museums of the world. Discovery of Fang artwork was source of inspiration for much of the European avant-garde artwork created during the 20th century. Much of the art is either used for their masquerades, or function as reliquaries and effigies. All are primarily made by the men of the village There is reason to believe that many of these reliquaries were made during the Fang's migration as a form of burial which was also portable.\nOne of the most popular art forms attributed to the Fang culture are the wooden reliquary heads, many of which contain the skull or bones of ancestors. There is a characteristic heart-shaped face and large bulbous forehead. The heads are very abstract and focus on geometric form and covered in a black patina. Some appear to 'cry', which is streaks of resin made from a mixture of palm oil and other seed oils. They are tied to the ideas of welfare and social power.\n\nThere is a characteristic heart shaped, concave face with a large bulbous forehead. The heads are often tied to welfare and social power\n\nHeads are an effigy and can be affixed to a wooden reliquary box/ barrel The bones and skulls of deceased leaders are kept in cylindrical boxes that are decorated with wooden sculptured figures. These bones are believed to be have special powers that protect the well-being of the community. The bones are always within the possession of the deceased leader's family and it's kept hidden from the eyes of the uninitiated and of women.\n\nThroughout Gabon, these figures serve as talisman or guardian to protect the remains of ancestors. Known as \"bieri, byeri\" or \"mwan bian -\" these reliquary figures widely range in style, but most common characteristics are:\n\n\nSome earlier figures had cavities in the abdomen as a place to store bones of ancestors. The figures aren't completed until they are ceremoniously presented and rubbed with palm oil. Members of the community will continually visit figures and rub them with oil so they maintain their protective powers.\n\nIt was during colonization that many of these reliquaries had to be destroyed due to missionary and government pressure.\n\nMusic plays a central to the oral history of the Fang.The \"mvet\" is a musical instrument popular in the Fang society, which is played by the \"mbomo mvet\" The instrument is a chordophone with attached resonators. Often, one resonator is regarded as 'male' and the other as 'female'. Some mvet come with two, three, or even five strings. To become a master \"mbomo mvet\" takes years of dedication and sacrifice.\n\nThe \"mbomo mvet\" will often pass through villages once a month to play at the council house where all members of the village will gather to be entertained. Members of the community participate by keeping time while the \"mbomo mvet\" plays the sings praises to the ancestors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092385", "title": "Phantom Ranch", "text": "Phantom Ranch\n\nPhantom Ranch is a lodge inside Grand Canyon National Park in Arizona. It sits at the bottom of Grand Canyon, on the east side of Bright Angel Creek, a little over half a mile north of the Creek's confluence with the Colorado River. Opened in 1922, Phantom Ranch is a member of Historic Hotels of America, the official program of the National Trust for Historic Preservation.\n\nThe site of Phantom Ranch and the areas around it were used by various Native American peoples for millennia. Numerous artifacts, including split-twig figurines carbon dated at 4000 years old, have been discovered in nearby caves. Puebloan peoples built pit houses and a ceremonial kiva in the area around AD 1050, and likely survived by hunting and growing corn, beans, and squash. Paiute and Havasupai people also inhabited Grand Canyon for many centuries and probably visited the area, although no direct evidence of this has yet been discovered.\n\nThe earliest recorded visit by European Americans took place in 1869, when John Wesley Powell and his company camped at the beach at the confluence of Bright Angel Creek and the Colorado River. It was Powell who gave Bright Angel Creek its name, contrasting its clear, sparkling waters with the turbulent, salty, muddy waters of a creek he and his men had passed earlier and named Dirty Devil. Powell explored the area briefly and discovered the Puebloan ruins. \n\nIn 1903, after François E. Matthes completed his pioneering survey work of Grand Canyon for the US Geological Survey, Edwin Woolley and other investors formed the Grand Canyon Transportation Company, hoping to develop the tourist potential of the Canyon's north rim in the same way that the Santa Fe Railroad was doing at the south rim. Woolley hired his son-in-law David Rust to improve an ancient Native American route that Matthes had used to travel down Bright Angel Creek to the Colorado River. By 1907 Rust and his crew had completed the trail work and added a small tent camp alongside the Creek at the bottom. \nRust planted native willows and cottonwoods to give the camp shade, grew alfalfa (for livestock), peaches, and plums, and raised chickens and rabbits as food for guests. Theodore Roosevelt, who as president had declared Grand Canyon a National Monument in 1908, traveled down to the camp during a hunting expedition in 1913; in honor of this visit the site became known as Roosevelt Camp.\n\nRoosevelt's enthusiasm for Grand Canyon helped lead to its incorporation into the National Park System in 1919. Rust's concession for the camp was transferred to the Fred Harvey Company, which hired American architect Mary Colter to design permanent lodging for the site. Construction presented a major challenge, as all the building materials except rock had to be hauled down by mules. Colter's solution was to create buildings from on-site rock and rough-hewn wood, in an architectural style that would come to be known as National Park Service Rustic. Fred Harvey officials had intended to call the new lodge Roosevelt Chalet, but Coulter insisted on the more evocative \"Phantom Ranch\", taking the name from nearby Phantom Creek and Phantom Canyon. When the Ranch opened on November 9, 1922, it consisted of a central cooking and dining hall surrounded by three guest cabins and a caretaker's cabin; other structures, not designed by Coulter, included a barn, chicken house, rabbit run, blacksmith shop, and water reservoir.\n\nThe Ranch's initial success quickly led to plans for enlargement and additional features. A small orchard and a vegetable garden were planted using some of the same land that Rust had previously cultivated. In 1925 four tent cabins, each sleeping four persons, were added, followed by a wooden bath house and an electric power generator. In 1927–28 Coulter oversaw the construction of a recreation hall, eight new cabins, and an enlargement of the dining hall.\n\nDuring the Great Depression the Civilian Conservation Corps made a number of upgrades to the Ranch, including a mule corral, the Trans-Canyon Telephone Line, improved plumbing and sewage systems, and a 35' x 70' pond-shaped swimming pool, fed by the waters of Bright Angel Creek. The 1930s saw the Ranch's popularity continue to grow, its isolation and relaxed atmosphere drawing many wealthy and notable guests, some of whom would stay for days or even weeks at a time. The writer Adrian Harbin, after a 1937 visit, wrote:\n\nThrough the end of World War II mule riding was the main method of getting around in Grand Canyon and the most popular way for tourists to experience the views that only traveling below the rims could bring. This began to change in the late 1940s as more and more people―many of them former soldiers who were used to walking long distances with packs on their backs―became interested in the idea of hiking for recreation and sight-seeing. Well into the 1950s commercial mule trips from both the south and north rims were responsible for transporting about 2/3rds of the guests that stayed at Phantom Ranch, with hikers taking any remaining space (mostly in the four tent cabins from 1925) on a first-come, first-serve basis. As the popularity of hiking continued to grow, however, the need for different priorities became apparent. During Easter weekend in 1964 nearly 1000 hikers arrived at the Ranch with the intention of spending the night, leading the National Park Service to finally establish a reservation system for the Ranch and begin looking for ways to add additional hiker accommodations.\n\nThe growing crowds and a natural disaster combined to put increasing strains on the Ranch's infrastructure as the 1960s progressed. In 1966 an immense flash flood swept through the inner canyon, stranding visitors and mules at the Ranch and damaging or destroying numerous buildings and structures in the area. The flooding also uprooted many of the cottonwood trees lining the banks of Bright Angel Creek. By the time the waters receded most of nearby Bright Angel Campground had been destroyed as well. Repairs from the flood took several years to complete. The increase in visitors in this period caused recurring maintenance problems for the swimming pool which, along with more stringent hygiene regulations, led to the pool's permanent closing by the early 1970s. A sewage treatment plant, replacing the overburdened septic tanks that had been installed by the CCC in the 1930s, was completed in 1981.\n\nPhantom Ranch remains a very popular destination, and is considered one of the most difficult hotels in the world to get reservations for. All accommodations are offered 15 months in advance via a monthly lottery system and usually sell out immediately. \n\nThe site currently includes nine regular cabins which sleep 1–4 persons, four or five of which are taken almost every night by mule riders. In addition, there are two large cabins, sleeping 8–10 persons, which are used by Colorado River boat groups and big hiking parties. All cabins are equipped with bedding, a cold water sink, a toilet, liquid soap, and hand towels; cabin guests shower in the centrally located Shower House. There are also four hiker dormitories (two for men and two for women), which were built in the 1970s, replacing the four 1925 tent cabins. Each dormitory has 10 beds set up in bunks, a sink, a toilet, and a shower; bedding, towels, and soap are provided. Total capacity for the Ranch is about 90 guests per night. The dining hall, now called Phantom Ranch Canteen, serves breakfast and dinner on a strict schedule and requires advance reservations; the Canteen is open to the public during non-meal hours, offering a small variety of items including snacks, beverages, stamps, T-shirts, postcards, headlamps, and first-aid supplies. Additional facilities include the mule corral, a small amphitheater, employee housing, a ranger station (with limited emergency medical services), and a heliport. Cottonwood trees, a few of which date back to the time of Rust's tent camp, line the creek and shade the buildings. Campers from Bright Angel Campground are not allowed to use the Shower House, but may reserve meals at the Canteen. \n\nThe only modes of access to and from Phantom Ranch are trails (used by both hikers and mules) and the Colorado River. The North Kaibab Trail leads 13.6 miles to the North Rim. Two trails lead to the South Rim. One is the 9.3 mile route that crosses the Silver Bridge, follows the River Trail for two miles, and then climbs the Bright Angel Trail to Grand Canyon Village. The other is the steeper 7.1 mile route across the Black Bridge and up the South Kaibab Trail. The two bridges, about 700 meters apart, are the only Colorado River crossings within a several-hundred-mile span.\n\nPhantom Ranch has no official mail service (unlike Supai, Arizona), but concessionaires have traditionally transported letters and postcards by mule. Packages are excluded from this service.\n\nPhantom Ranch's elevation is ; that is about lower than the South Rim and about lower than the North Rim. The average daily high and low temperatures are / during July and / in January. This represents a wide differential from temperatures at the top of the Grand Canyon; at the South Rim, the average daily high and low temperatures are / in July and / in January. The South Rim averages of snow, and Phantom Ranch less than . The riparian zone at the ranch is subject to invasion by non-native species such as tamarix, and volunteers are at times invited to help maintain the original biome by removing them.\n\nThe ranch is located at .\n\n – Audretsch, who worked as a NPS ranger at Grand Canyon for nearly 20 years, tells the story of Phantom Ranch, its history, geology, and peoples, accompanied by numerous historical photographs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092386", "title": "Naturalization Act of 1795", "text": "Naturalization Act of 1795\n\nThe United States Naturalization Act of January 29, 1795 () repealed and replaced the Naturalization Act of 1790. The 1795 Act differed from the 1790 Act by increasing the period of required residence from two to five years in the United States, by introducing the Declaration of Intention requirement, or \"first papers\", which created a two-step naturalization process, and by omitting the term \"natural born.\" The Act specified that naturalized citizenship was reserved only for \"free white person[s].\" It also changed the requirement in the 1790 Act of \"good character\" to read \"good moral character.\"\n\nBefore 1795, immigration law was governed primarily by the Naturalization Act of 1790.\n\nImmigrants intending to naturalize had to go to their local court and declare their intention at least three years prior to their formal application. In the declaration, the immigrant would also indicate his understanding that upon naturalization, he would take an oath not only of allegiance to the United States but also of renunciation of his former sovereign.\n\nIn addition to the declaration of intention and oath of renunciation, the 1795 Act required all naturalized persons to be \"attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States\" and be \"well disposed to the good order and happiness of the same.\"\n\nThe Act of 1795 was superseded by the Naturalization Act of 1798, which itself was repealed in 1802.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092398", "title": "Sonny Bupp", "text": "Sonny Bupp\n\nMoyer MacClaren Bupp (January 10, 1928 – November 1, 2007) professionally known as Sonny Bupp, was an American child film actor and businessman. His most notable film was \"Citizen Kane\" (1941), in which he appears as Junior, Charles Foster Kane III, the eight-year-old son of Charles Foster Kane and his first wife, Emily. Bupp was the last surviving credited member of the \"Citizen Kane\" cast at his death.\n\nBorn Moyer MacClaren Bupp in New York City, Sonny Bupp was the brother of actors Tommy (1924–1983), June (1913–1989) and Ann Bupp (1922-2005). He appeared in over 60 films during his career, including two \"Our Gang\" comedies, 1935's \"Our Gang Follies of 1936\" and 1938's \"Men in Fright\".\n\nHe appeared in \"Citizen Kane\" as the son of Charles Foster Kane, and was the last surviving credited cast member of that film. He also appeared in the 1937 Three Stooges' \"Cash and Carry\", as well as such films as \"Love Is on the Air\" (Ronald Reagan's first film), \"The Renegade Trail\", \"Annie Oakley\" (with Barbara Stanwyck), \"Kid Millions\", \"Angels With Dirty Faces\", \"The Devil and Daniel Webster\" and \"Tennessee Johnson\".\n\nHe served in the U.S. Army during the Korean War and, after his film career ended, became an auto industry executive. He died in Henderson, Nevada, aged 79, from an undisclosed cause.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092399", "title": "Lazarou", "text": "Lazarou\n\nLazarou may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2092403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092403", "title": "Buddy Swan", "text": "Buddy Swan\n\nPaul \"Buddy\" Swan (October 24, 1929 – March 21, 1993) (also credited as Buddy Swann) was an American child actor, best known for playing the title character of the 1941 film \"Citizen Kane\" as an eight-year-old boy.\n\nHe also appeared in the horror film \"The Ape\", the horror comedy \"Scared Stiff\", and the Academy-Award nominated film \"The Fighting Sullivans\", playing one of the Sullivan brothers in their youth.\n\nSwan also appeared as a young actor in Broadway plays in 1942, including \"Mr. Sycamore\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2092404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092404", "title": "John Murray (cricketer)", "text": "John Murray (cricketer)\n\nJohn Thomas Murray (1 April 1935 – 24 July 2018) was an English cricketer. He played in 21 Tests for England between 1961 and 1967.\n\nMurray was educated at the St John's Church of England School in Notting Hill, London. He played football as a wing half in his youth and was part of the Brentford youth team which reached the semi-finals of the inaugural FA Youth Cup in the 1952–53 season.\n\nMurray made his debut as a wicket-keeper for Middlesex in 1952, aged 17 years and 54 days. Most elegant behind the stumps, he is acknowledged as one of the most distinguished wicket-keepers in the history of the game. His batting prowess was such that he scored 1,000 runs in a season six times with Middlesex, and scored a Test century in 1966 when he batted at number nine against the West Indies. He played for Middlesex in 508 first-class matches between 1952 and 1975, and for England in 21 Tests. His tally of 1,527 first-class dismissals set a world record until it was broken by Bob Taylor in 1983. Murray was selected as one of the Wisden Cricketers of the Year in 1967.\n\nHe later served as an England selector and on the Middlesex General Committee.\n\nHis brother-in-law is the English footballer, Alan Mullery.\n\nHe died on 24 July 2018 at the age of 83, having been taken ill at Lord's while watching a Middlesex match.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092415", "title": "Saeed Al-Owairan", "text": "Saeed Al-Owairan\n\nSaeed Al-Owairan (also spelt \"Owairan\"; ; born 19 August 1967) is a Saudi Arabian former international footballer who played as a midfielder or forward. He scored a famous goal in 1994 FIFA World Cup against Belgium, which is considered to be one of the greatest World Cup goals of all time.\n\nOwairan spent his entire club career at Al-Shabab, a Saudi club based in Riyadh.\n\nHe won 75 caps for the Saudi national team, scoring 24 goals, including 7 goals in 1994 World Cup qualifying. He achieved international renown at the 1994 FIFA World Cup in the United States, in which he scored a stunning individual goal against Belgium at RFK Stadium in Washington, D.C. that was later voted the 6th best in FIFA's \"Goal of the Century\" rankings. The goal sent Saudi Arabia through to the second round of the World Cup, a feat which they have yet to repeat. They subsequently lost 3-1 to Sweden in the Round of 16.\n\nFollowing the World Cup, Owairan returned to Saudi Arabia. The same year he was named as Asian Footballer of the Year. Despite interest from European clubs, he was unable to leave the country due to a national law preventing Saudi footballers from playing abroad. In 1996, he was caught drinking alcohol and socializing with women during Ramadan by the Saudi police. He was given a prison sentence (believed to be around six months) and suspended from competitive football for one year.\n\nAlthough he was selected as part of the Saudi Arabia national team at the 1998 World Cup in France, he only made two appearances as Saudi Arabia went out in the group stages.\n\nAl-Shabab\n\nSaudi Arabia\n\n"}
{"id": "2092425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092425", "title": "Tipple", "text": "Tipple\n\nA tipple is a structure used at a mine to load the extracted product (e.g., coal, ores) for transport, typically into railroad hopper cars. In the United States, tipples have been frequently associated with coal mines, but they have also been used for hard rock mining.\n\nBasic coal tipples simply load coal into railroad cars. Many tipples had simple screening equipment to sort coal pieces by size before loading. Today, a coal mine facility usually includes a coal preparation plant which washes coal of soil and rock, before loading it for transport to market. The term \"tipple\" may be used interchangeably with coal prep plant.\nTipples were initially used with minecarts, also called \"tubs\" or \"tram cars\", or \"mine cars\" in the U.S. These were small hopper cars that carried the product on a mine railway out of the mine. When a mine car entered the upper level of the tipple, its contents were dumped through a chute leading to a railroad hopper car positioned on a track running beneath the tipple. At some facilities, each car was tipped over manually—thus the name, \"tipple\". In higher volume facilities, each car was placed in a machine called a rotary car dumper, which rotated the car to dump the coal or ore.\n\nIn the early 20th century, mine operators began using conveyor belts to load coal and ores into railroad cars, eliminating the use of mine cars. At some mines the conveyor loading facility is still referred to as a \"tipple\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2092431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092431", "title": "Antonio Baseotto", "text": "Antonio Baseotto\n\nAntonio Baseotto (b. Añatuya, April 4, 1932) was a Roman Catholic bishop from Argentina. Until February 2005 he was Argentina's military bishop (\"obispo castrense\"), that is, the head of the military chaplains, with the status of Subsecretary of State.\n\nBaseotto was born on April 4, 1932 and ordained as a priest in 1957. In the 1980s, he served in the diocese of Añatuya, Santiago del Estero, a province ruled in a quasi-feudalistic fashion by the indefinitely-reelected old-time Peronist Carlos Juárez. During this time, he was reportedly in close relation with the Juárez family.\n\nHe was in charge of the Sunday programming schedule in a local TV channel and several times he was formally accused of anti-Semitism due to public statements on air. Among other things, in 1986 he affirmed that most of the Jewish community in Argentina \"devotes itself, with much skill and often with very few moral principles, to big business... It does not matter the means... If pornography is good business, [the Jew] sells pornography. And if drugs are good business, he sells drugs...\". He also claimed that \"the means for spreading culture are in the hands of the Hebrews\", who are \"desintegrat[ing] the bases\" of the national civilization and culture. He never went to court or apologized for these statements.\n\nBaseotto was also allegedly involved in the murder of Jimena Hernández in 1988. According to some sources, he ordered the murder of the girl because she discovered by mistake a meeting between the bishop and drug traffickers. Baseotto ordered Pablo López to kill her and then masked his escape, making him pass by a false priest in the diocese of which he was in charged, Añatuya.\n\nIn 1992 Baseotto was appointed bishop of his diocese. He spent a total of 27 years in Añatuya. During his time, he was acknowledged as a supporter of the provincial government and especially of its police force, accused of innumerable abuses and violations of human rights. In bishops' meetings he repeatedly refused to condemn or criticize the policies of President Menem's administration (denounced by most other bishops as causes of poverty).\n\nHe once stated that laws on reproductive and sexual health (passed in several provinces), which make the State responsible for providing contraceptives to the population, \"legitimize prostitution\", and compared them to Nazism. He also made this comparison referring to aborted fetuses (\"segregated\", he claimed, as when \"non-Aryans\" were selected for extermination).\n\nIn November 2002, Baseotto was appointed military vicar (\"vicario castrense\") by Pope John Paul II. Due to a previous agreement with the Vatican, this post implies an official position as Subsecretary of State (with monthly wages of about 4,500 Argentine pesos, about 1,500 USD).\n\nOn 10 December 2004, during the Mass of the Dead for the Country, Baseotto justified the violations of human rights committed during the so-called Dirty War: \"It was a war, and in a war it is impossible to avoid excesses\". (See also \"Theory of the two demons\".)\n\nOn 18 February 2005, Baseotto became a national focus of controversy after he sent a letter to the national Minister of Health Ginés González García, accusing him of committing \"apology of crime\" because of the minister's support for the legalization of abortion in Argentina. Baseotto expressed his disgust by paraphrasing Mark 9:42 (\"And whosoever shall cause one of these little ones that believe on me to stumble, it were better for him if a great millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea\") and suggesting that González García should be given that treatment. Besides the usage of scripture (widely acknowledged as inappropriate even by other Catholic bishops), Baseotto was heavily criticized because this \"punishment\" echoes the infamous \"vuelos de la muerte\" (\"flights of death\") whereby prisoners of the last military regime were dumped into the Atlantic Ocean from planes. The conflict escalated and caused the Argentine government to relieve Baseotto from his job as the head of the military chaplains. This prompted accusations on the part of Catholic observers (also fueled by right-wing opposition leaders and media) that such actions threatened religious freedom. The government pointed out that Baseotto was still a bishop and could celebrate Mass and perform pastoral duties wherever he chose — he would simply not be on the payroll of the state.\n\nBaseotto resigned, following Canon Law, upon turning 75. Pope Benedict XVI officially accepted the resignation on 15 May 2007, and appointed the Vicar General Pedro Candia for the post on a temporary basis until a new chaplain is chosen.\n"}
{"id": "2092432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092432", "title": "List of art schools", "text": "List of art schools\n\nThe following is a list of notable art schools.\n\n\nIncludes institutions called the University of the Arts and those with very similar names:\n\nThe name of several schools (usually high schools) that are devoted to the fine arts, including:\n\nArts programs within a university may also be called a \"School of the Arts\". Such programs include:\n\nSome art schools have been initiated by artists; these may be designed to operate as traditional schools, or may themselves be considered art projects. \n\n"}
{"id": "2092438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092438", "title": "Tommy Wright (footballer, born 1944)", "text": "Tommy Wright (footballer, born 1944)\n\nThomas James Wright (born 21 October 1944 in Norris Green, Liverpool) is a former footballer. A one-club man, he played for Everton, with whom he won the Football League and the FA Cup, and represented England, including at the 1970 FIFA World Cup.\n\nWright joined Everton as an apprentice, and made his first team debut in 1964. He was part of the winning team in the 1966 FA Cup Final, in the unsuccessful team in the 1968 FA Cup Final and played all 42 league games in the 1969–70 season when Everton won the Football League Championship by nine points. He also won the 1970 FA Charity Shield. He made 373 appearances in total and scored four goals.\n\nWright has often been described as the best right back to play for Everton. George Best once described Wright as his most difficult opponent.\n\nWright made twelve appearances for England including the classic match against Brazil in the 1970 World Cup in Mexico. Wright made his debut for England in the game in which England beat the Soviet Union in the third place match in the 1968 European Football Championship in Italy, the only player to make his England debut in a European Championship finals match.\n\nWright retired in 1974 due to injury. His contributions to Everton were noted in the years following his retirement. He was named as an inaugural member of Gwladys Street's Hall of Fame in 1996, and as an \"Everton Giant\" in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092448", "title": "Tennis strategy", "text": "Tennis strategy\n\nPlayers use different tennis strategies to enhance their own strengths and exploit their opponent's weaknesses in order to gain the advantage and win more points.\n\nPlayers typically specialize or naturally play in a certain way, based on what they can do best. Based on their style, players generally fit into one of three types, \"baseliners\", \"volleyers\", \"all-court players\". Many players have attributes of all three categories but, at times, may also focus on just one style based on the surface, or on the condition, or on the opponent. \n\nA \"baseliner\" plays from the back of the tennis court, around/behind/within the baseline, preferring to hit groundstrokes, allowing themselves more time to react to their opponent’s shots, rather than to come up to the net (except in certain situations). \n\nA \"volleyer\" plays nearer towards the net, preferring to hit volleys, allowing less time for their opponent to react to their shots, rather than to stay/play from further back on the tennis court (except in certain situations). \n\n\"All-court players\" fall somewhere in between, employing both \"baseliner\" strategies and \"volleyer\" strategies depending on the situations.\n\nA player's weaknesses may also determine strategy. For example, most players have a stronger forehand, therefore they will favor the forehand even to the point of \"running around\" a backhand to hit a forehand.\n\nAn offensive or aggressive baseliner tries to control and dictate play by hitting powerful groundstrokes for winners usually from the area of the baseline or behind it. An effective offensive baseliner can overpower many opponents, however, when going for winners, they can also produce many \"errors\" since they have to repeatedly and correctly execute some difficult strokes, such as down-the-line winners landing near the corner. Fatigue, loss of focus, mis-hitting the ball, and hesitating are some reasons for errors. Two great old-time players, R. Norris Williams and Ellsworth Vines, were famous for being unbeatable when their strokes were \"on\". However, they played with such little margin for error in making their strokes that when they were making more mistakes they could be beaten by other players. Another advantage of this strategy is that the player can weaken his opponent's confidence by successfully landing difficult shots which in turn may increase his own confidence.\n\nHard courts are generally considered to be the best surface for an offensive baseliner who often hit higher risk shots. However, offensive baseliners can often excel on both grass and clay courts as well. On grass, they can execute their \"winners\" and the fast, low bounce makes it harder for opponents to retrieve; whereas on clay courts, some offensive baseliners might like the slow and high bounce because it gives them a longer time to change their grip and foot-positions in order to set up for an offensive shot or winner. Offensive baseliners with height especially have an advantage on clay courts because the high bounces land in their hitting zones, allowing them to strike the ball cleanly and more powerfully. One great example for this is Maria Sharapova, who is 6'2\", and the high bounce of the ball really helps her produce winners and force errors from her opponents. She had the hardest hit backhand at the 2013 French Open from the women's side, when she punished a first serve from Jelena Jankovic, producing a backhand return winner.\n\nIvan Lendl was the first player to popularize this style of playing in modern era professional tennis. Steffi Graf and Monica Seles were the pioneers on the women's side. Serena Williams is also known for excelling with this style. Rafael Nadal is accomplished at an offensive baseline playstyle, using a variety of high-spin shots and powerful flat strokes to dominate play, most notably on clay, which he is known to be very good at (though he usually prefers to play a defensive baseline style). Novak Djokovic is also a notable aggressive baseliner, with his powerful and precise backhand which is widely regarded as the best backhand of any active player.\n\nA defensive baseliner, \"counter-puncher\" or \"retriever\", tries to return every ball and relies on the opponent making mistakes. The trademarks of a counterpuncher include consistent shots with low error rate, as well as precise placement that makes it hard for their opponent to execute an aggressive shot. Counterpunchers also have a tendency to anticipate and are usually equipped with extremely good passing shots, thus enabling them to turn lots of defensive situations into offence. The game of the defensive counter-puncher has more to do with physical endurance and willingness to get every ball back in play as well as mental determination to keep from getting bored or trying for too much. Their game plan often involves moving their opponents back to the court and outmaneuvering their opponents. One example is former world number one Caroline Wozniacki who moves her opponent around the court without going for high risk winners. While on defence, she gets every ball back and constantly mixes up the pace, to frustrate her opponents.\n\nWhile they tend to make relatively few errors because they do not attempt the complicated and ambitious shots of the aggressive baseliner, the effective counterpuncher must be able to periodically execute an aggressive shot, either using the pace given by their opponent or using precision and angle. Speed and agility are key for the counterpuncher, as well as a willingness to patiently chase down every ball to frustrate opponents. Returning every aggressive shot that the opponent provides is often the cause of further errors due to the effort required in trying increasingly harder and better shots. However, it is noted that for some faster players, including Gaël Monfils, Lleyton Hewitt and Andy Murray, standing too deep behind the court can hinder their attacking abilities.\n\nAt lower levels, the defensive counter-puncher often frustrates their opponent so much that they may try to change their style of play due to ineffective baseline results. At higher levels, the all-court player or aggressive baseliner is usually able to execute winners with higher velocity and better placement, taking the counterpuncher out of the point as early as possible.\n\nMost counter-punchers often excel on slow courts, such as clay. The court gives them extra time to chase down shots and it is harder for opponents to create winners. However, some counter-punchers who have the ability to mix up their game and turn defense into offense, like Lleyton Hewitt, Andy Murray and Agnieszka Radwanska have excelled on faster courts like hard and grass as well as slower courts. Counter-punchers are often particularly strong players at low-level play, where opponents cannot make winners with regularity.\n\nA serve and volleyer has a great net game, is quick around the net, and has fine touch for volleys. \"Serve and volleyers\" come up to the net at every opportunity when serving. They are almost always attackers and can hit many \"winners\" with varieties of volleys and drop volleys. When not serving, they often employ the \"chip-and-charge\", chipping back the serve without attempting to hit a winner and rushing the net. The serve-and-volleyers' strategy is to put pressure on the opponent to try to hit difficult passing shots. This strategy is extremely effective against pushers.\n\nServe-and-volleyers benefit from playing on fast courts, such as grass or fast concrete. The quick bounce and faster pace of play give them an advantage because opponents have less time to set up for a passing shot. However, the number of serve-and-volley players is decreasing in today's professional tennis, because this strategy requires more experience to master and defeat other playing styles (as well as changes in racquet technology that have improved players' passing shots). In addition to this, there has been a trend toward the slowing down of tennis surfaces over the past few years. The serve-and-volley technique works better on faster surfaces because the volleyer is able to put more balls away without the baseliner being able to chase them down. Although serve and volleyers may be a dying breed, there are still some great players who employ this tactic. The Frenchman Michaël Llodra has been considered by many to be the best pure serve and volleyer of today's game.\n\nBill Tilden, the dominant player of the 1920s, preferred to play from the back of the court, and liked nothing better than to face an opponent who rushed the net — one way or another Tilden would find a way to hit the ball past him. In his book Match Play and the Spin of the Ball, Tilden propounds the theory that \"by definition\" a great baseline player will always beat a great serve-and-volleyer. Some of the best matches of all time have pitted great baseliners such as Björn Borg, Mats Wilander or Andre Agassi against great serve-and-volleyers such as John McEnroe, Boris Becker, Stefan Edberg, or Pete Sampras.\n\nSome players, such as Tommy Haas, Roger Federer and Andy Roddick will only employ this strategy on grass courts or as a surprise tactic on any surface. Roger Federer uses this commonly against Rafael Nadal, to break up long rallies and physically taxing games.\n\nAll-court players, or all-rounders, have aspects of every tennis style, whether that be offensive baseliner, defensive counter-puncher or serve-and-volleyer. All-court players use the best bits from each style and mix it together to create a truly formidable tennis style to play against. In game situations they are very versatile; when an all-court player's baseline game is not working, he/she may switch to a net game, and vice versa. All-court players have the ability to adjust to different opponents that play different styles more easily than pure baseliners or serve and volleyers. All-court players typically have the speed, determination and fitness of a defensive counter-puncher, the confidence, skill and flair of offensive baseliners and have the touch, the agility around the net and tactical thinking of the serve-and-volleyer.\n\nHowever, just because the all-court player has a combination of skills used by all tennis styles does not necessarily mean that they can beat an offensive baseliner or a defensive counter-puncher or even a serve-and-volleyer. It just means it would be more difficult to read the game of an all-court player.\n\nPerfect examples for all-rounders are Tim Henman or Roger Federer in men's singles and Justine Henin or Steffi Graf in women's singles.\n\nHolding serve is crucial in tennis. To hold serve, serves must be accurately placed, and a high priority should be placed on first serve percentage. In addition, the velocity of serve is important. A weak serve can be easily attacked by an aggressive returner. The first ball after the serve is also key. Players should serve in order to get a weak return and keep the opponent on the defense with that first shot. For example, following a wide serve, it is ideal to hit the opponent's return to the open court.\nThere are three different types of serves and each one of them can be used in different situations. One type of serve is the serve with slice. The slice serve works better when the player tosses the ball to the right and immediately hits the outer-right part of the ball. This serve is best used when you hit it wide so you get your opponent off the court. \n\nAnother type is the kick serve. To achieve a good execution, the player must toss the ball above the head and immediately spin the bottom-left part of the ball. Since the ball is tossed above the head, it is necessary for the player to arch correctly under the ball. This serve is best used as second serve because the amount of spin that is added to the ball makes it very safe. The kick serve is also effective when a change of rhythm is needed or when the opponent struggles with the high bounce that results from the effect. \n\nA third type of serve is the flat one. To execute this serve, the player must toss the ball right in front and immediately hit the middle-top part of the ball. This is usually a very hard serve and therefore risky. However, if the flat serve is executed with enough power and precision, it can turn into a great weapon to win points faster.\n\nThough strategy is important in singles, it is even more important in doubles. The additional width of the alleys on the doubles court has a great effect on the angles possible in doubles play. Consequently, doubles is known as a game of angles.\n\nThere are three basic doubles strategies:\n\nThe ideal is both-up strategy, often called \"Attacking Doubles\" because the net is the \"high ground\", and the both-up strategy puts both players close to it, in a position to score because of their excellent vantage points and angles. A team in the both-up formation, however, is vulnerable to a good lob from either opponent at any time. To be successful with Attacking Doubles, teams must have effective serves and penetrating volleys to prevent good lobs and good overhead shots to put away poor returns.\n\nTeams that play attacking doubles try to get into the both-up formation on every point. When serving, their server follows most first serves to the net and some second serves. As a result, attacking doubles is also called \"serve-and-volley doubles\". When receiving, their receiver follows most second-service returns to the net.\n\nAt the professional level, attacking doubles is the standard, though slowly degrading, strategy of choice.\n\nAt lower levels of the game, not all players have penetrating volleys and strong overhead shots. So, many use up-and-back strategy. The weakness in this formation is the large angular gap it creates between partners, a gap that an opposing net player can easily hit a clean winner through if they successfully poach a passing shot.\n\nNonetheless, up-and-back strategy is versatile, with elements of both offense and defense. In fact, since the server must begin each point at the baseline and the receiver must be far enough back to return the serve, virtually every point in doubles begins with both teams in this formation.\n\nTeams without net games strong enough to play Attacking Doubles can still play both-up when they have their opponents on the defensive. To achieve this, a team would patiently play up-and-back for a chance to hit a forcing shot and bring their baseliner to the net.\n\nAustralian Doubles and the I-Formation are variations of up-and-back strategy. In Australian doubles, the server's partner at net lines up on the same side of the court, fronting the opposing net player, who serves as a poaching block and blind. The receiver then must return serve down the line and is liable to have that return poached. In the I-Formation, the server's net partner lines up in the center, between the server and receiver so he or she can poach in either direction. Both Australian Doubles and the I-Formation are poaching formations that can also be used to start the point for serve-and-volley doubles.\n\nBoth-back strategy is strictly defensive. It is normally seen only when the opposing team is both-up or when the returner is passing the net player on the return. This might be a good tactic when the opponent has a serve with a lot of pressure and an aggressive player at the net. From here the defenders can return the most forcing shots till they get a chance to hit a good lob or an offensive shot. If their opponents at net become impatient and try to angle the ball away when a baseliner can reach it, the defender can turn the tables and score outright. However this strategy leaves the volley court open to drop shots from the opposition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092455", "title": "James A. Farley Building", "text": "James A. Farley Building\n\nThe James A. Farley Building is the main United States Postal Service building in New York City. It is located in Midtown Manhattan and was built along with the original Pennsylvania Station in 1912. The building is famous for bearing the United States Postal Service creed: \"Neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night stays these couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds.\"\n\nThe James A. Farley Building was formerly the General Post Office Building. The building was designated a New York City Landmark in 1966. It was officially renamed in 1982 as a monument and testament to the political career of the nation's 53rd Postmaster General James Farley. Since 2010, plans have been under way to integrate Moynihan Train Hall into the landmark as part of the Penn Station Expansion.\n\nThe Farley Building consists of the old general post office building and its western annex. The Farley building is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and occupies two full city blocks, an footprint straddling the tracks of the Northeast Corridor and the Farley Corridor (sub-district B) in western Midtown Manhattan. The building fronts on the west side of Eighth Avenue, across from Pennsylvania Station and Madison Square Garden. It is located at 421 Eighth Avenue, between 31st Street and 33rd Street in the New York City borough of Manhattan.\n\nThe Farley Post Office once held the distinction of being the only Post Office in New York City open to the public 24 hours a day, seven days a week. However, because of the Great Recession in 2009, its windows started closing at 10:00 p.m.\n\nThe monumental facade on Eighth Avenue was conceived as a Corinthian colonnade braced at the end by two pavilions. The imposing design was meant to match in strength the colonnade of Pennsylvania Station (also designed by McKim, Mead, and White), which originally faced the General Post Office Building from across Eighth Avenue. An unbroken flight of steps the full length of the colonnade provides access, for the main floor devoted to customer services is above a functional basement level that rises out of a dry moat giving light and air to workspaces below. Each of the square end pavilions is capped with a low saucer dome, expressed on the exterior as a low stepped pyramid. Inside, the visitor finds an unbroken vista down a long gallery that parallels the colonnaded front. The north end of the gallery houses a small Museum of Postal History. McKim, Mead, and White's range, which continues its Corinthian giant order as pilasters between the window bays, was simply repeated in order to carry the facade to Ninth Avenue.\n\nThe original building was one of the last built under the Tarsney Act. Up until 1893, all federal non-military structures were designed by in-house government architects in the Office of the Supervising Architect in the United States Treasury Department. The 1893 act introduced by a Missouri Congressman permitted the Supervisory Architect to pick private architects following a competition. Supervisory architect James Knox Taylor picked McKim for the New York post office. In 1913, the act was repealed partially in light of a scandal in which Taylor had picked his former Minnesota partner Cass Gilbert to design the Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom House.\nThe building prominently bears the inscription: \"Neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night stays these couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds,\" which is frequently mistaken as the official motto of the United States Postal Service. It was actually supplied by William Mitchell Kendall of the firm of McKim, Mead & White, the architects who designed the Farley Building and the original Pennsylvania Station in the same Beaux-Arts style. The sentence is taken from Herodotus' \"Histories\" (Book 8, Ch. 98) and describes the faithful service of the Persian system of mounted postal messengers under Xerxes I of Persia. The U.S.P.S. does not actually have an official motto or creed, but nonetheless the inscription on the building is often cited as such.\n\nThe ceiling of the front reception hall is decorated with carved national emblems or coats of arms of ten major nations at the time of the building's construction: the United States, the United Kingdom, the German Empire, the French Third Republic (represented by the cipher \"R.F.\" for \"République Française\" since lacking an official national emblem), the Russian Empire, the Kingdom of Italy, the Kingdom of Spain, Belgium, Austria-Hungary, and the Netherlands.\n\nAs part of the planning of Penn Station in the early 1900s, the Pennsylvania Railroad (PRR) proposed that the United States Post Office Department construct a post office on 8th Avenue, across from the station. In February 1903, the U.S. government accepted the PRR's proposal and made plans to construct what would later become the Farley Post Office. A contract to build the Post Office was let in March 1911. The original monumental structure was built in 1912 and opened for postal business in 1914.\n\nThe building's size was doubled in 1934 by then Postmaster General James A. Farley, who expanded the general Post Office to The Ninth Avenue side. The expansion replaced the City Hall Post Office at Park Row and Broadway, built 1869-80. Postmaster General Farley's historical association to the landmark is due to this expansion. Farley's building supply firm, the General Builders Supply Corporation, had received a federal contract under the Hoover Administration to provide building materials for the construction of the Post Office Annex. The General Builders Corporation supplied building materials toward the construction of such landmarks as the Empire State Building, Rockefeller Center, and the United Nations Headquarters. Farley was accused by then Senator Huey Long of Louisiana of receiving preferential treatment from the Roosevelt Administration, a charge that later proved to be false, as Farley would be cleared by the Senate of any wrongdoing in what would be known as \"The Long-Farley Affair of 1935\".\n\nUpon opening in 1914, it was named the Pennsylvania Terminal. In July 1918, the building was renamed the General Post Office Building.\n\nThe building was designated a New York City Landmark in 1966.\n\nIn 1982, the Penn Station post office was dedicated as the James A. Farley Building. (97th Congress, H.Res. 368 3/2/1982). James Farley was the nation's 53rd Postmaster General and served from 1933 to 1940. He was also the supreme Democratic Party boss of New York State at the time, was responsible for Franklin D. Roosevelt's rise to the Presidency, and is the first Roman Catholic politician in American history to have crossover appeal as a candidate for the office of the Presidency of the United States of America. Farley, a native New Yorker, was instrumental in the political careers of Alfred E. Smith and Franklin D. Roosevelt, having served as campaign manager to both. Farley was a Democratic candidate for U.S. president in the 1940 United States presidential election, running against Roosevelt in the primary.\n\nThe Farley Building was instrumental to maintaining service levels in the New York City area following the September 11 attacks, when it served as a backup to operations for the Church Street Station Post Office located across the street from the World Trade Center complex. Advances in automated mail processing technology, coupled with adjustments to postal distribution and transportation networks, now make it feasible for the Morgan Center to handle high volumes of mail.\n\nPortions of the landmark James Farley Post Office are being adaptively reused and converted to house a new concourse for Amtrak. The Amtrak facility within the historic Farley Post Office will be named the Moynihan Train Hall. A first phase, consisting of new exits and a mezzanine within the James Farley Post Office, broke ground on October 18, 2010. A second phase, comprising a new train hall within the Farley Building, started construction in August 2017.\n\nBeyond retail lobby services, other postal operations that would remain in the building will include Express Mail, mail delivery, truck platforms, and a stamp depository. Administrative offices for the Postal Service's New York District will also be headquartered within Farley, and Operation Santa Claus will remain at the landmark post office.\n\nThe Farley Building is home to \"Operation Santa\", made famous in the classic film \"Miracle on 34th Street\" (1947). The building is the inspiration for the post office in Terry Pratchett's novel \"Going Postal\" (2004), with its \"Glom of nit\" legend. It is also depicted three-dimensionally and serves as a main home base for the fictional Catastrophic Emergency Response Agency (CERA) in the 2016-released video game \"Tom Clancy's The Division\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092456", "title": "Kennet School", "text": "Kennet School\n\nKennet School is an academy secondary school in Thatcham, Berkshire, England. In 2011, Kennet was the highest achieving state school in West Berkshire using contextual value added results and third-highest using five good GCSEs. The school has an annual income of just over £8.9 million and spends roughly £5,000 per student per year.\n\nThe school opened on 11 September 1957 as a secondary modern, before converting into a comprehensive in 1971 and finally changing to an academy on 1 April 2011. The school has 1,755 pupils on roll in years 7 to 11, 300 pupils attending sixth form (years 12 and 13) with 121 teachers and 78 non-teaching staff. The headmistress in Gemma Piper as of 2018.\n\nKennet is one of few schools in England to have three specialisms: in September 2000 the school was given Technology College status. In February 2002 a new technology block was built on the north of the site to replace dispersed classrooms. In March 2005 the school received Arts College status Most recently in April 2006 it was awarded the status of Language College.\n\nKennet was awarded the Artsmark Gold by the Arts Council England in 2001, 2004, 2007, 2010, and 2013; and the Platinum award in 2018. It was also awarded the Sportsmark by Sport England in 2001. The school was also awarded the Challenge Award by National Association for Able Children in Education on 22 November 2006 and re-accredited on in November 2010 and November 2017 respectively, as recognition for its efforts to support Able, Gifted and Talented pupils. Kennet was only the 16th school in the country to receive the award at the time.\n\nThe previous headmaster, Paul Dick (1989-2017) was appointed an OBE for Services to Education in the 2000 New Year Honours. Paul Dick was also the Category Winner in 2001 in \"The Leadership Trust Award for School Leadership in a Secondary School in South of England\".\n\nMembers of staff receiving teaching awards:\n\n\nThere is a sixth form at Kennet for students who wish to continue their education after the age of 16. The students have their own block that was constructed for the start of the 2007 academic year, which consists of a common area, where the sixth formers can socialise, a computer suite and the sixth form offices. There is also a section of the library provided for sixth form use only. There is no set uniform; instead a dress code is set. Boys must wear a shirt and tie, and girls must dress in smart office wear. The European Computer Driving Licence qualification can be studied with any sixth form course. Some sixth formers are appointed house captains after an application and selection process by the heads of houses. The captains organise teams for inter-house sports, music, debating, drama and art competitions.\n\nWhen students join the school they become a member of a house. The house system provides a structure for pastoral care and competition through sports (including amongst others rugby, netball athletics, football hockey), music, drama and day-to-day studies through the award of house points and commendations. Each house is overseen by a Head of House and their Deputy who co-ordinate the appointment of vice-prefects, prefects, house captains and strive to encourage their students to deliver their best.\n\nThere are four houses at the school: Saint Patrick, Saint Michael, Saint Francis, and Saint David. Now defunct houses are Saint George and Saint Andrew, which were dissolved in the mid to late 1980s. Each house is associated with a colour as shown in the table below.\n\nEach year the school organises exchanges to France and Germany. The pupils can go to France in year 9 and Germany in year 9 & 10. The foreign pupil staying with their exchange partner's family for 7–12 days, then vice versa later on. In 2011, Kennet School celebrated 30 years' twinning with the German school Melibokusschule, in Alsbach-Hähnlein.\n\nThe \"Kennet News\" school newspaper was first issued in May 1975 at the price of two new pence and ran until the late eighties. Its original slogan was \"News as it happens – and sometimes before it happens!\". It reported the departure of George Hurford and the arrival of Terrence Enright in 1978 and later the arrival and departure of Dr. Nicholas Wheeler-Robinson.\n\nEach house chooses its own charity to support, and throughout the year each tutor group fundraises towards their house's target amount of money. For example, one of Saint Michael house's chosen charity was the Rwanda appeal. The senior staff sometimes plan one-off events, such as the \"Kennet (World) Cup\" to raise money for charity. This was a football event that occurred on 19 June 2006 in aid of the Bobby Moore Cancer Appeal. The event was designed to coincide with the 2006 FIFA World Cup.\n\nEvery tutor group has 2 representatives to the School Council, one male and one female.\n\nIn 2005 the school was criticised in the Office for Standards in Education (Ofsted) report for lacking 'a daily act of collective worship' and not reporting pupils' ICT progress in years 10 and 11, both of which are statutory requirements. All maintained English schools must provide daily worship that is broadly Christian, although parents can remove their children and sixth formers may decline to attend. Since the school is now an academy (not a maintained school) this requirement does not necessarily apply. The report also found that not all subject department heads have good enough monitoring systems to improve the quality of teaching and learning.\n\nThe 2008 reduced tariff report rated the school overall as \"outstanding\". The main recommendations of the report were to improve sixth form teaching including inconsistency in the quality of teaching between subjects and setting more accurately the right standard of work to stretch and develop pupils. The local Member of Parliament, Richard Benyon, has in the past spoken out over shortfalls for the budget towards Kennet School's sixth form which could explain its under performance in relation to the rest of the school.\n\nThe inspection in 2014, resulted in the school being rated as \"Requires Improvement\", although the sixth form was noted in the report as being \"good\".\n\nThe most recent inspection in May 2016, resulted in the school regaining its \"outstanding\" status, with the sixth form continuing to be rated as \"good\".\n\nIn 2016 accusations were reported of child sex abuse by former teacher Robert Neill (1986-2003). The school was criticised for not following professional guidelines and missing opportunities to prevent the abuse, prompting an investigation by the West Berkshire Safeguarding Children Board. In 2016, a local vicar Pete Jarvis was accused of child sex offences. Jarvis was an active member of the school community and held youth counselling sessions with students. Since then, Kennet School has been reported by OFSTED to be 'highly vigilant' in keeping pupils safe.\n\nIn September 2017, Kennet School and the West Berkshire Council had a legal dispute over £43,000 owed to the council over the use of the conjoined leisure centre.\n\nThe Risman Library was opened on 23 September 1997 by Councillor Ann Risman, the Chairman of Berkshire County Council, who was accompanied by Chris Woodhead, Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Schools in England. The library is designed to be a low energy environment by incorporating high levels of natural light and ventilation. It stocks over 22,000 books, has seating for pupils and has a separate Sixth Form study section, which doubles as a seminar room.\n\n\nKennet's headmasters and headmistress, starting from establishment in 1957, are.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092457", "title": "Enshū Railway Line", "text": "Enshū Railway Line\n\nThe Enshū Railway Line, officially the , is a Japanese railway line in Shizuoka Prefecture, running north from Shin Hamamatsu, Naka Ward through Nishi Kajima, Tenryū Ward, all within Hamamatsu. This is the only railway line Enshū Railway (Entetsu) operates. The line has a nickname , while locals often call it Akaden (あかでん, \"The Red Train\"), referring to the color of the EMUs. The line accepts NicePass, a smart card ticketing system, as well as ET Card, a magnetic card ticketing system. \n\nRailway signalling on this line is automatic.\n\nThe line opened as 762mm gauge in 1909, and was converted to 1067mm gauge and electrified at 600 VDC in 1923.\n\nThe voltage was increased to 750 VDC in 1961, and CTC signalling was commissioned between Nishi Kajima and Hachiman in 1967, and extended to Shin Hamamatsu in 1974.\n\nFreight services ceased in 1976.\n\n\nAll stations are within Hamamatsu, Shizuoka.\n\nThis article incorporates material from the corresponding article in the Japanese Wikipedia\n\n"}
{"id": "2092466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092466", "title": "List of data references for chemical elements", "text": "List of data references for chemical elements\n\nThe List of data references for chemical elements is divided into datasheets that give values for many properties of the elements, together with various references. Each datasheet is sequenced by atomic number.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092470", "title": "Museum of English Rural Life", "text": "Museum of English Rural Life\n\nThe Museum of English Rural Life, also known as the MERL, is a museum, library and archive dedicated to recording the changing face of farming and the countryside in England. It houses designated collections of national importance that span the full range of objects, archives, photographs, film and books. It is also the location of the University of Reading's special collections archive, housing hundreds of collections of rare books, manuscripts, typescripts and other objects of importance.\n\nThe museum is run by the University of Reading, and is situated in Redlands Road to the rear of the institution's London Road Campus near to the centre of Reading in southern England. The location was formerly known as East Thorpe House and then St. Andrews Hall. It is an accredited museum and accredited archive as recognised by Arts Council England and the National Archives.\n\nThe museum's site was originally occupied by a house known as East Thorpe, designed in 1880 by Alfred Waterhouse for Alfred Palmer (of the Reading biscuit manufacturers Huntley & Palmers). Palmer was an important early benefactor of Reading University and in 1911 East Thorpe was extended to become St Andrews Hall, a hall of residence for women attending the university.\n\nThe museum itself was founded in 1951, growing out of the university's long academic connections with agriculture. It originally occupied premises on the University of Reading's main Whiteknights Campus, opening to the public in 1955. St Andrews Hall closed as a hall of residence in 2001. The site was then redeveloped for the use of the museum, with the cost of £11m being shared by the university, the Heritage Lottery Fund and public donations. The redeveloped museum opened in 2005 and retains the original East Thorpe building, with the addition of an adjoining new building. The two contrasting buildings overlook restored gardens, providing a setting for a rural collection in an urban environment.\n\nThe Museum underwent a period of further redevelopment from 20132016, funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund, the Wellcome Trust, and the University of Reading. The Museum officially reopened on 22 October 2016 with ten new galleries, including a gallery dedicated to Ladybird Books artwork held by the University of Reading Special Collections.\n\nIn February 2019, a bat was found on the museum's premises. The museum named the bat MERLin and issued him a library card.\n\nThe Museum holds over 25,000 objects, almost all of which are on display, and which provide a material record of rural England covering 1750 to the present day. It cares for a collection of livestock portraiture, representations of rural life, agricultural hand tools, ploughs, farm machinery, sewing machines and other equipment.\n\nThe museum has a specialist library and houses other collections including the library of the Tools & Trades History Society.\n"}
{"id": "2092472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092472", "title": "Le Silence de la mer", "text": "Le Silence de la mer\n\nLe Silence de la mer (, \"The Silence of the Sea\") is a French novel written during the summer of 1941 and published in early 1942 by Jean Bruller under the pseudonym \"Vercors\". Published secretly in German-occupied Paris, the book quickly became a symbol of mental resistance against German occupiers.\n\nIn the book, Vercors tells of how an old man and his niece show resistance against the German occupiers by not speaking to the officer who is occupying their house. The German officer is a former composer, dreaming of brotherhood between the French and German nations, deluded by the Nazi propaganda of that period. He is disillusioned when he realizes the real goal of the German army is not to build but to ruin and to exploit. He then chooses to leave France to fight on the Eastern Front, cryptically declaring he is \"off to Hell.\"\n\nThe book was translated into English by Cyril Connolly and published in 1944 under the title \"Put Out the Light\".\n\nAn English language adaptation called \"The Silence of the Sea\" was transmitted by the BBC TV service on 7 June 1946 as part of their first evening's programming following the resumption of TV broadcasting after the end of World War II. \n\nA film, \"Le Silence de la mer\", based on the book and directed by Jean-Pierre Melville, was released in 1949. \n\nA second English-language TV adaptation was broadcast by the BBC in 1981, and a stage version by John Crowther was performed by The Heywood Society in the theatre at Peterhouse, Cambridge in 1985, with the (presumably ironic) title \"Talking in the Night\".\n\n\"Le Silence de la Mer\" (2004), a French-Belgian TV movie based on the novels by Vercors was shot from 1 to 28 April 2004 in Tusson and directed by Pierre Boutron for France 2 television. This film was awarded at the Festival of Fiction of Saint-Tropez in 2004 three awards: best TV film, best female (Julie Delarme) and best music (Angélique et Jean-Claude Nachon). The actors are Julie Delarme (Jeanne Larosière), Michel Galabru (André Larosière), Thomas Jouannet (Werner Von Ebrennac), Marie Bunel (Marie), Timothée Ferrand (Pierre).\n\nIn 2013, a new English version by Anthony Weigh was staged at the Trafalgar Studios theatre in London as part of the Donmar Trafalgar season, starring Leo Bill, Simona Bitmate, and Finbar Lynch. Simon Evans directed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092475", "title": "Halim El-Dabh", "text": "Halim El-Dabh\n\nHalim Abdul Messieh El-Dabh (, \"Ḥalīm ʻAbd al-Masīḥ al-Ḍab\"ʻ; March 4, 1921 – September 2, 2017) was an Egyptian American composer, musician, ethnomusicologist, and educator, who had a career spanning six decades. He is particularly known as an early pioneer of electronic music. In 1944 he composed one of the earliest known works of tape music, or musique concrète. From the late 1950s to early 1960s he produced influential work at the Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center.\n\nEl-Dabh was born and grew up in Sakakini, Cairo, Egypt, a member of a large and affluent Coptic Christian family that had earlier emigrated from Abutig in the Upper Egyptian province of Asyut. The family name means \"the hyena\" and is not uncommon in Egypt. In 1932 the family relocated to the Cairo suburb of Heliopolis. Following his father's profession of agriculture, he graduated from Fuad I University (now Cairo University) in 1945 with a degree in agricultural engineering, while also studying, performing, and composing music on an informal basis. Although his main income was derived from his job as an agricultural consultant, he achieved recognition in Egypt from the mid- to late 1940s for his innovative compositions and piano technique.\n\nIt was while he was still a student in Cairo that he began his experiments in electronic music. El-Dabh first conducted experiments in sound manipulation with wire recorders there in the early 1940s. By 1944, he had composed one of the earliest known works of tape music or musique concrète, called \"The Expression of Zaar\", pre-dating Pierre Schaeffer's work by four years. Having borrowed a wire recorder from the offices of Middle East Radio, El-Dabh took it to the streets to capture outside sounds, specifically an ancient \"zaar\" ceremony, a type of exorcism conducted in public. Intrigued by the possibilities of manipulating recorded sound for musical purposes, he believed it could open up the raw audio content of the \"zaar\" ceremony to further investigation into \"the inner sound\" contained within.\n\nAccording to El-Dabh, \"I just started playing around with the equipment at the station, including reverberation, echo chambers, voltage controls, and a re-recording room that had movable walls to create different kinds and amounts of reverb.\" He further explains: \"I concentrated on those high tones that reverberated and had different beats and clashes, and started eliminating the fundamental tones, isolating the high overtones so that in the finished recording, the voices are not really recognizable any more, only the high overtones, with their beats and clashes, may be heard.\" He thus discovered the potential of sound recordings as raw material to compose music. His final 20–25 minute piece was recorded onto magnetic tape and called \"The Expression of Zaar\", which was publicly presented in 1944 at an art gallery event in Cairo. Following a well received 1949 performance at the All Saints Cathedral in Cairo, he was invited by an official of the U.S. embassy to study in the United States.\n\nComing to the United States in 1950 on a Fulbright fellowship (as expanded to include Egypt via the Smith-Mundt Act of 1948), El-Dabh studied composition with John Donald Robb and Ernst Krenek at the University of New Mexico; with Francis Judd Cooke at the New England Conservatory of Music; with Aaron Copland, Irving Fine, and Luigi Dallapiccola at the Berkshire Music Center; and with Irving Fine at Brandeis University. El-Dabh and his family rented a house in Demarest, New Jersey before buying a home in Cresskill, New Jersey where they lived for some time.\n\nEl-Dabh soon became a part of the New York new music scene of the 1950s, alongside such like-minded composers as Henry Cowell, John Cage, Edgard Varèse, Alan Hovhaness, and Peggy Glanville-Hicks. He obtained U.S. citizenship in 1961.\n\nAmong El-Dabh's works are four ballet scores for Martha Graham, including her masterpiece \"Clytemnestra\" (1958), as well as \"One More Gaudy Night\" (1961), \"A Look at Lightning\" (1962), and \"Lucifer\" (1975). Many of his compositions draw on Ancient Egyptian themes or texts, and one such work is his orchestral/choral score for the Sound and Light show at the site of Great Pyramid of Giza, which has been performed there each evening since 1961.\n\nEl-Dabh's primary instruments are the piano and darabukha (an Egyptian goblet- or vase-shaped hand drum with a body made of fire-hardened clay), and consequently many of his works are composed for these instruments. In 1958 he performed the demanding solo part in the New York City premiere of his \"Fantasia-Tahmeel\" for darabukha and string orchestra (probably the first orchestral work to feature this instrument), with an orchestra under the direction of Leopold Stokowski. In 1959 he composed several works for an ensemble of percussion instruments from India, for the New York Percussion Trio.\n\nAfter having become acquainted with Otto Luening and Vladimir Ussachevsky by 1955, by which time El-Dabh he had been experimenting with electronic music for ten years, they later invited him to work at the Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center in 1959 as one of the first outside composers there, where he would become one of the most influential composers associated with the early years of the studio. El-Dabh's unique approach to combining spoken words, singing and percussion sounds with electronic signals and processing contributed significantly to the development of early electroacoustic techniques at the center. Some of his compositions also made extensive use of Columbia-Princeton's RCA Synthesizer, an early programmable synthesizer. He worked there sporadically until 1961, creating various tape works, including at least two in collaboration with Luening. Other composers he had become acquainted with at Columbia-Princeton include John Cage, Aaron Copland, and Leonard Bernstein.\n\nEl-Dabh produced eight electronic pieces in 1959 alone, including his multi-part electronic musical drama \"Leiyla and the Poet\", which is considered a classic of the genre and was later released in 1964 on the LP record \"Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center\". His musical style was a contrast to the more mathematical compositions of Milton Babbitt and other serial composers working at the center, with El-Dabh's interest in ethnomusicology and the fusion of folk music with electronic sounds making his work stand out for its originality. According to El-Dabh: \"The creative process comes from interacting with the material. When you are open to ideas and thoughts the music will come to you.\" In contrast to his peers (such as Otto Luening, John Cage, and La Monte Young) who sounded, according to \"The Stranger\", more like \"math equations (artists out to prove a point) than actual music,\" El-Dabh's experimental electronic music were \"more shapely and rhythmic constructions\" that incorporated traditional stringed and percussion sounds, inspired by folk music traditions (including the Egyptian and Native American traditions).\n\nMaking full use of all ten Ampex tape recorders available to him at Columbia, his approach to composing electronic music was for immersion, with his seamless blending of vocals, electronic tones, tape manipulation such as speed transposition, and music looping, giving \"Leiyla and the Poet\" an \"unearthly quality\" that made it influential among many composers at the time. The number of musicians who have acknowledged the importance of his recordings to their work range from Neil Rolnick, Charles Amirkhanian and Alice Shields to rock musicians such as Frank Zappa and The West Coast Pop Art Experimental Band. The \"organic textures and raw energy\" of \"Leiyla and the Poet\" in particular inspired many early electronic music composers. \"Leiyla and the Poet\" also featured a \"sonorous, echoing voice, sonar signals, distorted ouds, percussion that sounds like metal,\" and \"shadowy, shifting dream music.\" Other works he composed there include the 1959 pieces \"Meditation in White Sound\", \"Alcibiadis' Monologue to Socrates\", and the chimey, rhythmic \"Electronics and the Word\", as well as the 1961 piece \"Venice\" which is reminiscent of Steve Reich's field recording experiments in the mid-1960s. El-Dabh also helped introduce an \"Egyptian folk sensibility\" to Western avant-garde music. A definitive collection of El-Dabh's electronic work was restored by Mike Hovancsek. This CD, titled \"Crossing into the Electric-Magnetic\", includes a collaboration with Otto Luening, environmental recordings, and wire recordings that the liner notes cite as \"arguably the earliest example of electronic music.\"\n\nLike Béla Bartók before him, El-Dabh has also conducted numerous research trips in various nations, recording and otherwise documenting traditional musics and using the results to enrich his compositions and teaching. From 1959 to 1964 the most significant of these trips included investigations of the musics across the length and breadth of Egypt and Ethiopia, with later fieldwork being conducted in Mali, Senegal, Niger, Guinea, Zaire, Brazil, and several other nations. During the 1970s, El-Dabh served as a consultant to the Smithsonian Institution and conducted research on the traditional puppetry of Egypt and Guinea.\n\nEl-Dabh served as associate professor of music at Haile Selassie I University (now Addis Ababa University) in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, professor of African studies at Howard University (1966–69), and professor of music and Pan-African studies at Kent State University (1969–91); he continued to teach courses in African studies there on a part-time basis until 2012. Among the awards and honors he has received are two Fulbright awards (1950 and 1967), three MacDowell Colony residencies (1954, 1956, and 1957), two Guggenheim Fellowships (1959–60 and 1961–62), two Rockefeller Foundation fellowships (1961 and 2001), a Meet-the-Composer grant (1999), an Ohio Arts Council grant (2000), and two honorary doctorates (Kent State University, 2001; and New England Conservatory, 2007).\n\nEl-Dabh is probably the best known composer of Arabic descent and his works are highly regarded in Egypt, where he was considered the foremost living composer among that nation's \"second generation\" of contemporary composers. He was invited back to his homeland in April 2002 for a festival of his music at the newly constructed Bibliotheca Alexandrina in Alexandria, Egypt; most of the compositions presented were heard by the Egyptian public for the first time.\n\nMany of El-Dabh's scores are published by the C. F. Peters Corporation and his music has been recorded by the Folkways and Columbia labels. Previously unpublished works are also being produced by Deborah El-Dabh of Halim El-Dabh Music, LLC. The first biography of the composer, \"The Musical World of Halim El-Dabh\" by Denise A. Seachrist, was published by the Kent State University Press in 2003.\n\nHe has been a frequent performer and speaker at both the WinterStar Symposium and the Starwood Festival, where he performed with lifelong friend and master drummer Babatunde Olatunji in 1997, and where El-Dabh's concert of traditional sacred African music was recorded in 2002. In 2003 he was part of a three-day tribute to the late Olatunji called the SpiritDrum Festival, with Muruga Booker, Badal Roy, Sikiru Adepoju, Jeff Rosenbaum, and Jim Donovan of Rusted Root. In 2005 he performed and ran workshops at Unyazi 2005 in Johannesburg, which was the first electronic music symposium and festival to be hosted in Africa.\n\nHe is a National Patron of Delta Omicron, an international professional music fraternity.\n\nHe is survived by his wife and his three grown children.\n\nA 2003 biography by Denise A. Seachrist describes the multilayered ethnic and racial identity of El-Dabh. As a young student in Egypt, he was inspired by the secularism and pan-Arabism of Gamal Abdel Nasser, but became disenchanted with Arab identity when Nasser failed to act against the institutionalized discrimination against Egypt's Copts. After he immigrated to the United States, El-Dabh encountered racism. Because he was of Upper (southern) Egyptian descent, he notes that he was darker-skinned than most Egyptian immigrants to the United States.\n\nEl-Dabh was noted for his support for the African American community, and his activism on behalf of civil rights, which he says were motivated by his own experiences of racism. Throughout the late 50s and 1960s, he donated or marched with various civil rights organizations. His ties to African American culture were deepened when he taught music and African American studies at Howard University.\n\nIn 2003 El-Dabh appeared on a television program with Henry Louis Gates to analyze his genetic ancestry; the results showed him to be approximately 94% Egyptian (overwhelmingly from Upper Egypt), 3% European, and 3% sub-Saharan African.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092490", "title": "Ellen Churchill Semple", "text": "Ellen Churchill Semple\n\nEllen Churchill Semple (January 8, 1863 – May 8, 1932) was an American geographer and the first female president of the Association of American Geographers. She contributed significantly to the early development of the discipline of geography in the United States, particularly studies of human geography. She is most closely associated with work in anthropogeography and environmentalism, and the debate about \"environmental determinism\".\n\nSemple was born in Louisville, Kentucky, the youngest of five children by Alexander Bonner Semple and Emerine Price.\n\nSemple's early education was guided by her mother, Emerine Semple, as well as private tutors. Semple followed her sister, Patty Semple, to Vassar where she graduated as valedictorian and was the youngest member of her graduating class. Semple graduated in 1882 with a BA in History from Vassar College at the age of 19, and continued on at Vassar to earn an MA in History in (1891). She became interested in geography while visiting London, where she encountered the works of Friedrich Ratzel. She went to Germany to seek out Ratzel and study with him at the University of Leipzig. As a woman, she was prohibited from matriculating, but she was able to gain permission to attend Ratzel's lectures, the only woman in a class of five hundred male students. She continued to work with Ratzel and produced several academic papers in American and European journals, but was never conferred a degree.\n\nSemple was the first woman to become president of the Association for American Geographers. Semple was a pioneer in American geography, helping to broaden the discipline's focus beyond physical features of the earth and bringing attention to human aspects of geography. Her innovative approach and theories influenced the development of human geography as a significant subfield and influenced the social sciences across disciplines, including history and anthropology.\n\nSemple taught at the University of Chicago from 1906 to 1920, but her first permanent academic position was offered to her in 1922 at Clark University. She was the first female faculty member, teaching graduate students in geography for the next decade, but her salary was always significantly less than her male colleagues. She also lectured at the University of Oxford in 1912 and 1922.\n\nHer first book, \"American History and its Geographic Conditions\" (1903) and her second, \"Influences of Geographic Environment\" (1911), were widely-used textbooks for students of geography and history in the United States at the start of the 20th century.\n\nSemple was a founding member of the Association of American Geographers (AAG). She was elected AAG's first female President in 1921, and remains only one of six women to hold that office since the organization's founding in 1904.\n\nSemple was a key figure in the theory of environmental determinism, along with Ellsworth Huntington and Griffith Taylor. Influenced by the works of Charles Darwin and inspired by her mentor Freidrich Ratzel, Semple theorized that human activity was primarily determined by the physical environment. Although environmental determinism is today heavily critiqued and has lost favor in social theory, it was widely accepted in academia in the late 19th-early 20th centuries. Still, Semple's influence can be seen in the works of many modern-day geographers, including Jared Diamond.\n\nIn a series of books and papers she communicated certain aspects of the work of German geographer Friedrich Ratzel to the Anglophone community. Standard disciplinary accounts often attribute to Semple a prevailing interest in environmental determinism, a theory that the physical environment, rather than social conditions, determines culture; however her later work emphasized environmental influences as opposed to the environment's deterministic effect on culture, reflecting broader academic discontent with environmental determinism after the First World War.\n\nIn her work \"Influences of Geographic Environment on the Basis of Ratzel's System of Anthropo-Geography\" (1911), she describes people and their associated landscapes, dividing the world into key environmental types. Semple identifies four key ways that the physical environment: 1) direct physical effects (climate, altitude); 2) psychical effects (culture, art, religion); 3) economic and social development (resources and livelihoods); 4) movement of people (natural barriers and routes, such as mountains and rivers).\n\nSemple's work also reflects discussions and conflicts within geography and social theory about determinism and race. Indeed, in some works she challenges popular ideas of her time about race determining social and cultural differences, suggesting that environment was a more important factor in cultural development. Semple's theories of environmental determinism have been criticized as overly simplistic and often replicating the same themes of racial determination through \"nature\". However, Semple's work has more recently been revisited for its early examination of issues which are now central to political ecology.\n\nSemple believed that mankind originated in the tropics but gained full maturity in the temperate regions of the world.\"where man has remained in the tropics, with few exceptions, he has suffered arrested development. His nursery has kept him a child.\"\n\nSemple conducted fieldwork for her research in Kentucky and the Mediterranean, an innovative practice that was uncommon in geography at the time. From 1911 to 1912, she undertook an eighteen-month journey which visited Japan, Korea, China, the Philippines, Java, Ceylon, India, Egypt, Palestine, Lebanon, and Turkey in addition to places in Europe and the United States. The main focus of the trip was a three-month visit to Japan, facilitated by her Vassar classmate Ōyama Sutematsu, which produced unusually positive depictions of Japan during a period of high anti-Japanese sentiment in the United States. During her fieldwork, she took notes on human-environment relations, cultural features of the landscape, and made detailed observations of housing, structures, livelihoods, and daily life.\n\nSemple continued to teach geography until her death in 1932. She died in West Palm Beach, Florida, and is buried in the Cave Hill National Cemetery in Louisville.\n\nIn 1914 Semple received the Cullum Geographic Medal from the American Geographical Society, \"in recognition of her distinguished contributions to the science of anthropogeography\". She was President of the Association of American Geographers (now the American Association of Geographers) from 1921 to 1922 and was awarded the Helen Culver Gold Medal by the Geographic Society of Chicago, in recognition of her leadership in American Geography.\n\nSemple Elementary School in Semple's hometown of Louisville was named in her honor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092499", "title": "List of Grand Slam men's singles champions", "text": "List of Grand Slam men's singles champions\n\nThis article details the list of men's singles Grand Slam tournaments tennis champions. Some major changes have taken place in history and have affected the number of titles that have been won by various players. These have included the opening of the French national championships to international players in 1925, the elimination of the challenge round in 1922, and the admission of professional players in 1968 (the start of the Open era).\n\nNote: All of these tournaments have been listed since they began, rather than when they officially became majors. The Australian and US tournaments have only been officially regarded as majors by the ILTF (now the ITF) since 1924 (though many regarded the US Championships as a major before then). The French Championships have only been a major since 1925 (when it became open to all amateurs internationally).\nBefore 1924 (since 1912/1913 to 1923) there were 3 official majors: Wimbledon, the World Hard Court Championships (played on clay) and the World Covered Court Championships (played on an indoor wood surface).\n\nAll-time\n\nOpen Era\n\nAll-time\n\nOpen Era\n\nNote: Bold indicates player still active.\n\nNote: * indicates ongoing streak, bold indicates player still active.\n\nThese players won all four majors. The year listed is the year the player first won each tournament; the last one is marked in bold. The age listed is the age at the end of that last tournament, i.e., the age at which the player completed his Career Grand Slam.\n\n\"Note: players with four titles are not included here.\"\n\n\"Note: players with more than two titles are not included here.\"\n\nBold = Active Streaks\n\n"}
{"id": "2092501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092501", "title": "Harry Dym", "text": "Harry Dym\n\nProfessor Harry Dym (born 1938, ) is a mathematician at the Weizmann Institute of Science, Israel. Dym's research interests include operator theory, interpolation theory, and inverse problems.\n\nDym earned his Ph.D. in 1965 from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, under the supervision of Henry McKean.\nHe introduced the Dym equation, which bears his name.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092505", "title": "Cold Frontier", "text": "Cold Frontier\n\nCold Frontier is the ninth studio album by English acoustic roots duo Show of Hands. It was recorded in early 2001 on location by the Countess Wear at the River Exe, Exeter, Devon, with Mick Dolan, engineer for Steve Winwood, co-producing the album with the duo. The album features a stripped down, acoustic sound. The duo's website says the album is \"possibly Show of Hands’ finest work so far.\" The album comes with a full colour twenty page booklet, all the lyrics, and comments on the background of each track.\n\nThe album was released in September 2001 by the band's label Hands on Music. The album was released to positive reviews, with David Kidman of \"NetRhythms\" calling the album a \"triumph\". \n\nThe supporting promotional tour, \"The Cold Frontier Tour\", was unusual in that it mixed the album's material with older, lesser known material from the band and cover versions of songs by artists both well known and obscure. The tour spawned the acclaimed live album \"Cold Cuts\" (2002). The second song on \"Cold Frontier\", \"Are We Alright\", was re-recorded for the duo's best-of compilation album, \"\" (2007), which features three other songs from the album. The song itself has become a live staple of the duo.\n\nAfter releasing \"Dark Fields\" (1997), Show of Hands experimented with recording albums of material written by people beside the duo. \"Folk Music\" (1998) was a limited edition album feature the band's performances of traditional folk songs, while \"Covers\" (2000) featured the band's cover versions that reflect the duo's contemporary musical influences. \n\nReleased between the two albums was Steve Knightley's first solo album, \"Track of Words\" (1999), whilst Beer worked on several projects, including the concept album \"Ridgeriders\" (1999) and a collaborative album centred around the fiddle, \"The Fiddle Collection\" (1999). In 2001, they performed their second concert at the Royal Albert Hall which was filmed for their VHS concert film \"The Big Gig – Show of Hands @ The Royal Albert Hall\" (2001). The film was filmed by ITV franchise holder Carlton Productions, who broadcast it on ITV Carlton as two dedicated half-hour programmes. \n\n The album was recorded in early 2001 by the River Exe in Countess Wear, Devon. The album was co-produced between Mick Dolan, engineer for Steve Winwood, and the duo. David Kidman of \"NetRhythms\" noted that the album sees the duo return \"to a more basic instrumental setup\". One description noted that the duo had \"created their own unique musical style by combining the narrative strengths of English and Celtic traditional music with instruments and textures from other cultures.\" The title track and opening song, \"Cold Frontier\", is about \"the memory of a Roman soldier on the fringes of the Empire with integration in today's European Union, whilst \"The Flood\" is about the flooding in Southern England. \"Widecombe Fair\" is about revellers, whilst \"Come By\" is about the \"challenges facing farmers.\"\n\nIn 2013, Steve Knightley described \"The Flood\": \"One of the elements that fed into that was the death of people in the process of coming here to find work and while they’re working here, in Morecambe Bay and people who were trapped in the back of trucks. I wrote a song about the floods of people and how we should have an open door policy, wherever possible, if the work is there, and as soon as we started singing it, all these horrible stories from the Mediterranean started, people perishing coming, trying to find their way to us. So you write a song that seems topical, you think it’s got a shelf life that’s limited and then current affairs come round and reinvigorate it again.\"\n\nThe album was released on 3 September 2001 by the duo's own record label Hands on Music with the catalogue number HMCD13. The album received a positive reception from critics. \n\nThe promotional tour that supported the album, The Cold Frontier Tour, ran until the end of November 2001. The tour was unusual for the duo; in addition to performing songs from \"Cold Frontier\", the duo also performed older material that the duo had not played in many years as well as new arrangements of songs from other writers. David Kidman of \"NetRhythms\" said that the tour was a \"triumph\", noting that \"in addition to the songs from the album itself opportunity was taken to revisit older material and showcase some new arrangements of songs from other writers both familiar and unfamiliar.\" The duo recorded the live album \"Cold Cuts\" on the tour in November, before releasing the album in July 2002. \"Are We Alright\" was released as a double A-side single with \"Crooked Man\" in 2004.\n\nFour songs from the album appear on the band's best-of retrospective compilation album \"\" (2007), namely a new re-recording of \"Are We Alright\", \"Widecombe Fair\", \"Cold Frontier\" and \"You're Mine\". The first three tracks appear on the first disc , subtitled \"Short Stories\", whilst \"You're Mine\" appears on the second disc, subtitled \"Longdogs\", whose songs were decided after fans of the band were asked to choose their favourite songs from each of their albums on individual polls on the band's former internet forum Longdogs, with the winners of each poll appearing on the disc. After the duo were nominated for \"Best Duo\" and \"Best Live Act\" at the BBC Radio 2 Folk Awards 2008, the re-recording of \"Are We Alright\" featured on the corresponding various artists compilation album.\n\nAll songs written by Steve Knightley, except where noted.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092507", "title": "Carlo Allioni", "text": "Carlo Allioni\n\nCarlo Allioni (23 September 1728 in Turin – 30 July 1804 in Turin) was an Italian physician and professor of botany at the University of Turin. His most important work was \"Flora Pedemontana, sive enumeratio methodica stirpium indigenarum Pedemontii\" 1755, a study of the plant world in Piedmont, in which he listed 2813 species of plants, of which 237 were previously unknown. In 1766, he published the \"Manipulus Insectorum Tauriniensium\".\n\nIn April, 1758 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society.\n\nHe was appointed extraordinary professor of botany at the University of Turin in 1760 and was also the director of the Turin Botanical Garden. The journal \"Allionia: bollettino dell' istituto ed orto botanico dell' università di Torino\" is named after him.\n\nFirst Pehr Löfling and then Linnaeus named the New World herb genus \"Allionia\" (Nyctaginaceae) after Allioni. Per Axel Rydberg named the genus \"Allioniella\" (now \"Mirabilis\"), after him. Also named after him are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092511", "title": "Styrbjarnar þáttr Svíakappa", "text": "Styrbjarnar þáttr Svíakappa\n\nStyrbjarnar þáttr Svíakappa (The Tale of Styrbjörn the Swedish Champion) is a short story, a \"þáttr\" on the Swedish claimant and Jomsviking Styrbjörn the Strong preserved in the \"Flatey Book\" (GKS 1005 fol 342-344, ca 1387-1395).\n\nIt is inserted together with \"Hróa þáttr heimska\" in the description of Olaf Haraldsson's wooing of the Swedish princess Ingegerd Olofsdotter. Their purpose appears to be to present the Swedish court, its traditions and Þorgnýr the Lawspeaker.\n\nIn the story, Styrbjörn becomes the leader of the Jomsvikings and makes war against the Danes, until he makes peace with the Danish king Haraldr Gormsson who in return gave Styrbjörn his daughter and 100 ships.\n\nHowever, Styrbjörn is not happy with the agreement and attacks Denmark with an even larger fleet and forces king Harald to give him 200 ships and the king himself as a hostage.\n\nStyrbjörn goes back to Sweden to take the Swedish throne. Styrbjörn has sacrificed to Thor, but Eric the Victorious has sacrificed to Odin and has promised to belong to Odin within ten years if he wins.\n\nWhen the forces meet, Þorgnýr the Lawspeaker has created an ingenious war machine by tying horses and cows together with spears and spikes. This war machine wreaks havoc among the Jomsvikings. After three days of battle, Eric throws his spear over the Danes and cries \"I give you all to Odin\", and a landslide and a rain of \"Odin's arrows\" kill Styrbjörn and his men.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092514", "title": "Pretty Boy Floyd (Canadian band)", "text": "Pretty Boy Floyd (Canadian band)\n\nPretty Boy Floyd was a Canadian hard rock band from Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.\n\nThis Canadian hard rock band released an EP and an LP, both named \"Bullets & Lipstik\".\n\nThey were most successful in the United Kingdom, where \"Bullets & Lipstik\" was a Top 10 hit on the indie charts in 1988.\n\nDuring their career, the band opened for Skid Row, Hurricane, Savatage, Teenage Head, and Jailhouse. The Canadian Pretty Boy Floyd got into a legal battle with the American Pretty Boy Floyd. The Canadians owned the rights to the name, but could not proceed legally as the American Pretty Boy Floyd had filed for the American trademark. The American PBF could not use the name \"Pretty Boy Floyd\" on the \"Karate Kid III\" soundtrack and was forced to use the acronym \"PBF\". When the American band was signed to MCA Records, \"Kerrang\" magazine mistakenly printed the Canadian band's picture with the heading \"Floyd Signs To MCA\" The band renamed itself Tommy Floyd (after the lead singer) following the departure of guitarist Pete Parker. Tommy Floyd added two guitars and retained the original PBF rhythm section for a short period prior to regrouping with a new solo line up.\n\nSinger/songwriter and founder Tommy Floyd went on to launch the music management company Outlaw Entertainment International, working with members of Salty Dog, Dangerous Toys and Celtic Frost. Outlaw Recordings helped former PBF guitarist Pete Parker in the launching of his blues-based trio, Billy Butcher.\n\nGuitarist Pete Parker, sang lead vocals as well as playing guitar. Butcher released the album \"Penny Dreadful\". Drummer Sandy Hazard was later in the band Grandma Moses, which released the album \"Too Little Too Late\". Hazard is now in the pop punk band Mcrackins and sings for Vancouver rock band Dirtbag Republic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092522", "title": "Saint Andrew's Hall (Detroit)", "text": "Saint Andrew's Hall (Detroit)\n\nThe Saint Andrew's Hall is a concert venue located in Detroit, Michigan. Formerly the meeting place for the Saint Andrew's Society of Detroit. The Shelter lies underneath St. Andrews Hall and hosts various live music acts and DJs. It is best known for being one of the first stages Eminem performed.\n\nSince 1980, the venue has been bringing trendsetting music to Detroit.The hall has hosted famous breakthrough acts during the '80s and '90s, such as the Insane Clown Posse, Iggy Pop, Bob Dylan, Paul Simon, The Verve, Tool, Skinny Puppy, Nirvana, R.E.M., No Doubt, Icehouse, James, The Cranberries, and the Red Hot Chili Peppers .\n\nElectric Six, a band originally from Detroit, filmed a concert at St. Andrew's Hall on September 7, 2013 entitled Absolute Treasure.\n"}
{"id": "2092526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092526", "title": "Carolina Dog", "text": "Carolina Dog\n\nThe Carolina dog, also known as a yellow dog, yaller dog, American Dingo, or Dixie Dingo, is a breed of medium-sized, feral dog that lives mostly in the Southeastern United States, especially in isolated stretches of longleaf pines and cypress swamps. Rehoming of Carolina dogs has recently become popular, and they can make good domestic pets with proper socialization. Since 2008, artificial selection efforts to establish them as a standardized breed (usually capitalized as Carolina Dog) has made some progress, with recognition in two smaller national kennel clubs, and acceptance into the breed-establishment program of a major one.\n\nOriginally a landrace breed, the Carolina dog was rediscovered living as free-roaming population by I. Lehr Brisbin Jr., though originally documented in American dog-related publications in the 1920s. Carolina dogs show admixture with dog breeds from east Asia.\n\nOne of the earliest publications to document the \"Indian\" dogs of North America was an article by Glover Morrill Allen, in 1920. Allen postulated that these \"Larger or Common Indian Dogs\" were descended from Asian primitive dogs: Allen cites late nineteenth-century studies of skeletal remains of dogs that could be found from Alaska to Florida to the Greater Antilles and westward to the Great Plains, and were excavated from Indian mounds as well:\nThese dogs were publicized by I. Lehr Brisbin Jr., a senior research ecologist at the University of Georgia's Savannah River Ecology Laboratory, who first came across a Carolina dog while working at the Savannah River Site, which was depopulated and secured of all trespass and traffic for decades beginning in 1950.\n\nSince 1996, Carolina dogs can be registered with the United Kennel Club (UKC), which has published a detailed, formal Carolina Dog breed standard. UKC focuses on hunting dogs and other working dogs, and categorizes the Carolina in their \"Sighthound & Pariah Group\", along with other breeds such as the Basenji of Africa and the Thai Ridgeback. A breed standard has also been issued by the American Rare Breed Association (ARBA). ARBA includes the Carolina in their \"Group 5\" along with the Canaan dog and the New Guinea singing dog.\n\nIn July 2017, the American Kennel Club (AKC, the largest dog breed registry in the United States) accepted the Carolina Dog breeding program into its Foundation Stock Service (FSS), the first step toward official AKC breed recognition. AKC has the dog listed under their \"Hound\" group.\n\nCarolina dogs are a medium-sized; height ranges from 17 to 24 inches (45–61 cm), and weight from 30 to 65 pounds (15–30 kg). The ears are characteristic and are erect, very long, and moderately slender, tapering way up to elegantly pointed tips and they can be individually turned to the direction of any sound, providing extremely sensitive hearing.\nThe dog ranges in build from muscular yet slender and graceful to somewhat stockier animals. The dogs legs are also graceful but strong. The hind midsection is firm and narrow. The overall build in a healthy, properly fed Carolina dog is svelte to somewhat stockier, strong and athletic. Paws are relatively large. The snout and the notably elongated, fox-like ears are spitz-like. The tail is usually upturned and often has a hooked kink in it. The coat is usually short and smooth, characteristic of a warm-climate dog.\n\nColors vary, and may include reddish ginger, buff, fawn, black-and-tan, or piebald with or without white areas on toes, chest, tail tip and muzzle. The eyes are at an oblique angle and almond shaped. The eyes vary in color, but are usually dark brown or medium to dark orange. The area along the edges of the eyes is often (but not always) a distinctive black \"eyeliner\" coloration which becomes more pronounced by contrast in lighter-colored dogs. The lips are often black, even in light-colored dogs. Frequently, puppies have a melanistic mask that usually fades as the adult coat comes in.\n\nFemale Carolina dogs have three estrus cycles in quick succession, which settle into seasonal reproductive cycles when there is an abundance of puppies. This is thought to ensure quick breeding in the wild before diseases, like heartworm, take their toll.\n\nBrisbin (1997) conjectured that some of the Carolina dog's ancestors arrived with prehistoric Americans.\n\nIn 2013, a study looked at the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sampled from Carolina dogs. The study showed that 58% of the dogs carried universal haplotypes that could be found around the world (haplotypes A16, A18, A19, and B1), 5% carried haplotypes associated with Korea and Japan (A39), and 37% carried a unique haplotype (A184) that had not been recorded before, and that is part of the a5 mtDNA sub-haplogroup that originated in East Asia. In contrast, the Australian dingo and the New Guinea singing dog both belong to haplotype A29 which is in the a2 sub-haplogroup, hence there is no genetic relationship in the mtDNA. Also in 2013, another study of several dog breeds in the Americas – among them the Carolina dog, the Peruvian Hairless Dog, and the Chihuahua indicated an ancient migration from East Asia.\n\nIn 2015, a study was conducted using mitochondrial (female lineage marker), Y-chromosome (male lineage marker), and autosomal genetic markers in 4,676 purebred dogs from 161 breeds and 549 village dogs from 38 countries. The study tested for the degree of admixture with European breed dogs. The study found no yDNA haplotypes indigenous to North American dogs outside of the Arctic. However, the mtDNA of Carolina dogs contained between 10%–35% pre-Columbian ancestry (mtDNA haplotype A184) that clustered with East Asian dogs.\n\nIn 2018, a study compared sequences of fossil North American dogs with fossil Siberian dogs and modern dogs. The study indicates that dogs entered North America from Siberia 4,500 years after humans first arrived, were isolated for 9,000 years, and became extinct after European contact when they were replaced by Eurasian dogs; the pre-contact dogs exhibit a unique genetic signature that is now gone, with their nearest genetic relatives being the Arctic dog breeds. Three Carolina dogs in the study exhibited up to 33% pre-contact / arctic lineage, however the study could not rule out this being the result of admixture with modern Arctic dog breeds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092527", "title": "Very light jet", "text": "Very light jet\n\nA very light jet (VLJ), entry-level jet or personal jet, previously known as a microjet, is a category of small business jets seating four to eight people and often with a maximum takeoff weight (MTOW) of or under , although the Embraer Phenom 100, HondaJet and Cessna Citation M2 are all slightly over. VLJs are considered the lightest business jets and are approved for single-pilot operation.\n\nThe first small jet-powered civil aircraft, the 1950s Morane-Saulnier MS.760 Paris, has been retroactively suggested as being the first VLJ, as it seats four with a single pilot and is smaller than modern VLJs. The production MS.760 differs from modern business jets in having a sliding canopy for cabin access rather than a door; a six-seat version with an enclosed cabin and a conventional door was canceled after a single prototype was built. \n\nTwo unbuilt Cessna aircraft of the 1950s and 1960s would have met the definition of a VLJ. The first was the 407, a four-seat civil version of the T-37 jet trainer proposed in 1959; however, the 407 never progressed past the mock-up stage due to insufficient customer interest. The second was the Fanjet 500, which had an MTOW of and a single pilot as originally envisioned in 1968; however, as the aircraft evolved into the Cessna Citation I, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration demanded a second pilot and various design changes resulting in an MTOW of .\n\nOther attempts to create small jet aircraft in this class in the 1970s and 1980s were the Gulfstream Aerospace FanJet 1500 and the CMC Leopard.\n\nAfter a flurry of interest in the Small Aircraft Transportation System (SATS) and air taxi markets in the early 2000s, the VLJ sector underwent significant expansion. Several new designs were produced, such as the Embraer Phenom 100, the Cessna Citation Mustang, and the Eclipse 500. However, following the late 2000s recession the air taxi market underperformed expectations, and both Eclipse Aviation and air taxi firm DayJet collapsed. In December 2010, AvWeb's Paul Bertorelli explained that the term \"very light jet\" has lost favor in the aviation industry. \"Personal jet is the description du jour. You don't hear the term VLJ—very light jet—much anymore and some people in the industry tell me they think it's because that term was too tightly coupled to Eclipse, a failure that the remaining players want to, understandably, distance themselves from.\"\n\nSingle-engine designs were popular in the mid-2000s, before the global financial crisis diminished the market appeal of the category. Most of those programs, which included the Piper Altaire, Diamond D-Jet, Eclipse 400 and VisionAire Vantage, were all shelved and the only maintained aircraft are the Cirrus Vision SF50, which is now type certified and in production, and the Stratos 714, which expects certification in 2019. They are expected to compete with single turboprop aircraft.\n\nTwo VLJs in history have won the Collier Trophy, known as the most prestigious aerospace engineering award in the United States — the Eclipse 500 (in 2006) and the Cirrus Vision Jet (in 2018).\n\nVLJs are intended to have lower operating costs than conventional jets, and to be able to operate from runways as short as , either for personal use or in point-to-point air taxi service. In the United States, the Small Aircraft Transportation System is aimed at providing air service to areas ignored by airlines.\n\nFlorida-based air taxi provider DayJet, which on October 3, 2007 began its Eclipse 500 service, planned to operate more than 1,000 of the VLJs within five years, and had stated in mid-2007 that it planned to operate 300 Eclipse 500s serving 40 regional airports in the Southeastern United States by the end of 2008. DayJet ceased operations on September 19, 2008.\n\nMany models are under development or awaiting certification, while others have failed. Six have so far made deliveries to customers:\n\nThe Cessna Citation Mustang was the first production VLJ, first delivered in November 2006, and the Cirrus Vision SF50 is the first single-engine production VLJ, beginning deliveries in December 2016.\n\nBusiness jet sales were suffering due to the ongoing late 2000s recession. The General Aviation Manufacturers Association reported in November 2010 that third quarter business jet sales were down 20.3% over the same period in 2009, with light jets suffering the most. Industry analysts PMi suggest that 1,700 VLJs will be delivered between 2013 and 2020, compared to 1,000 delivered up to 2013.\n\nWhen these smaller jets were first mooted, there was much interest in the fact that they would not have a lavatory on board, with articles discussing the matter in \"The New York Times\" and items on NBC Nightly News. Some manufacturers argued that for short flights of and 40 to 80 minutes' duration the lavatory issue was not a problem and air taxi service companies said that it was not a concern for most of their passengers. Despite this, the Eclipse 500 had the option of an electric flush, remove-to-service lavatory with a privacy curtain - at the expense of one passenger seat, and the proposed Adam A700 design had a seven-seat configuration with rear lavatory with a privacy curtain. The Cessna Mustang also has an emergency toilet, but it is located between the cockpit and cabin. The Embraer Phenom 100 offers a fully enclosed lavatory with a solid door. The 2015 Honda HA-420 HondaJet has a full lavatory at the rear of the aircraft with flushing toilet, full sink and closing door.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092529", "title": "Narcotic Control Act", "text": "Narcotic Control Act\n\nThe Narcotic Control Act (the \"Act\"), passed in 1961, was one of Canada's national drug control statutes prior to its repeal by the 1996 \"Controlled Drugs and Substances Act.\" It implemented the provisions of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.\n\nThe \"narcotics\" included in the \"Act\" are drugs such as heroin, cocaine and cannabis. The \"Act\" prohibits activities such as possession of a \"narcotic\", possession for the purpose of trafficking, cultivating, importing or exporting.\n\nSection 3 of the \"Act\" prohibits the possession of the \"narcotic\". A person is authorized to have a narcotic in his or her possession if he or she requires the narcotic for his business or profession and is a licensed dealer, a pharmacist, or a practitioner who is registered and entitled to practice in the province in which he has such possession. The maximum penalty for possession of narcotics is 7 years' imprisonment.\n\nSection 4 of the \"Act\" prohibits the trafficking of a narcotic or the possession of a narcotic for the purpose of trafficking. Section 2 of the \"Act\" defines \"traffic\" as (a) to manufacture, sell, give, administer, transport, send, deliver or distribute, or (b) to offer to do anything referred to in part (a). The maximum penalty for the offense of trafficking is life imprisonment.\n\nSection 5 of the \"Act\" prohibits importing or exporting narcotics. This offence has a maximum penalty of life imprisonment. The minimum penalty of importing or exporting narcotics is 7 years' imprisonment.\nSection 6 of the \"Act\" prohibits the growing of opium or marijuana without a federal licence. The penalty for the offence is a maximum of 7 years in prison.\n\nIn February 1994, Bill C-7 proposed a revision of illegal drug legislation. The new drug legislating aimed to be more coherent and consistent with Canada's obligations under the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances signed in 1988. Failing to succeed, the bill was reintroduced in the House of Commons on March 6, 1996, as Bill C-8. The House of Commons referred Bill C-8 to the Canadian Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs, which conducted a detailed study of it. The Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs proposed 15 amendments as well as the striking of a joint parliamentary committee of the House of Commons and the Senate, which would review Canada's drug policy. Bill C-8 was passed and received Royal Assent on June 20, 1996, and is thus Canada's current illegal drug legislation, known as Canada's \"Controlled Drugs and Substances Act\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2092535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092535", "title": "Game stalker", "text": "Game stalker\n\nDefined narrowly, a game stalker is a hunter who for sport, approaches close to its timid quarry before making a kill. The practice is commonly associated with the moors of Scotland where the principal quarry is red deer. However, the skill is found worldwide and is of extremely long standing. Many other species such as cats and hyenas also stalk their prey.\n\nAmong hunter-gatherers, where their quarry is timid, stalking is a way of livelihood in order that they may catch what they hunt. Nowadays, stalking is frequently done for purposes of photography or observation of animal behaviour rather than for killing.\n\nWhatever the means of killing, the hunter has to be near the quarry in order to achieve it. Most animals are very sensitive to the presence of predators. In many cases, their sense of smell is highly developed, detecting anything with an unusual scent. The stalker therefore needs to approach from down-wind. Similarly, care needs to be taken to avoid being seen and heard.\n\nThe deerstalker is a type of hat associated with Sherlock Holmes and Elmer Fudd. Notable for its slight rain-brim to the front and back, with a camouflage checked twill pattern and fold-down earpieces for selective warmth or to raise when listening for deer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092537", "title": "Hansa Borg Bryggerier", "text": "Hansa Borg Bryggerier\n\nHansa Borg Bryggerier is a Norwegian brewery and distribution company which markets beer, bottled water and soft drinks. \nHansa Borg Bryggerier AS was founded in 1997, after a merger between Hansa Bryggeri and Borg Bryggerier. The company is controlled by the Egenæss family (75% ownership), who owned Borg since 1905 until the merger in 1997. Other principal owners are the Swedish-based Spendrups Bryggeri AB and Danish-based Royal Unibrew.\n\nThe brewery is Norway's second largest manufacturing and marketing of beer and mineral water. It operates three regional breweries plants located in Bergen, Sarpsborg, Kristiansand and Olden, Norway. Beer brands include \"Hansa\", \"Waldemars\", \"Borg\" and \"CB\", as well as \"Heineken\" and \"Clausthaler \" under license. In 1999, Hansa Borg acquired Christianssands Bryggeri (CB). This gave Hansa Borg nationwide distribution of all its three main brands of beer, as well as controlling the local markets in Hordaland, Østfold, and Southern Norway. In 2005, Hansa Borg acquired \"Olden Brevatn\", a company that produces drinking water from a glacier in Oldedalen. \n\n"}
{"id": "2092543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092543", "title": "Beer Nuts", "text": "Beer Nuts\n\nBeer Nuts is an American brand of snack food building on the original product, peanuts with a sweet-and-salty glazing. According to the manufacturer, the ingredients include peanuts, coconut oil, corn syrup and salt. In the United States, Beer Nuts are a staple of bar snacks and are often referred to as \"the quintessential American bar food\". \n\nAlthough Beer Nuts do not contain any beer, the name suggests that they are intended as a side dish to beer consumption. \n\n The company began in 1937 when Edward Shirk and his son Arlo took over the Caramel Crisp confectionery store in Bloomington, Illinois, which sold a product called \"Redskins,\" \"slightly sweet, lightly salted\" glazed peanuts with their red skins intact. Beginning in 1950, this product was sold packaged as \"Shirk's Glazed Peanuts\" in local liquor stores.\n\nBy 1953, local food distributor Eldredge C. Brewster helped expand the product to a national brand, and the Beer Nuts trademark was registered. By the 1960s, the product was available in all 50 states, and by the 1970s, the Shirks shipped 10 million pounds of Beer Nuts nationally. The company's product line has since expanded to other nuts, such as cashews and almonds, and various snack mixes, gift baskets and holiday packaged items.\n\nThe Beer Nuts brand has been registered as a trademark since 1955 and has been successfully protected in court on several occasions from competing brands who used similar names. Beer Nuts has been described as ”something of a case study in brands avoiding genericization”.\n\nThe company remains family owned with production still based in Bloomington, operating out of the 100,000-square-foot facility it relocated to in 1973.\n\nIn Australia, beer nuts refers to salted roasted peanuts with the testa (red skin) intact. They are sold unglazed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092550", "title": "Association of Independent Schools in New England", "text": "Association of Independent Schools in New England\n\nThe Association of Independent Schools in New England (AISNE) is an association serving independent schools in New England, USA. It provides educational services such as downloadable materials and support for diversity programs, and represents its members to government, the media, etc. It also accredits elementary schools. As of 2005, it has over 160 members. \n\nThe AISNE is a member of the National Association of Independent Schools.\n\nMembers must \n\nMember schools include: the Sage School, Applewild School, Academy Hill School, Boston University Academy, and Eaglebrook School.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092552", "title": "Pretty Boy Floyd (American band)", "text": "Pretty Boy Floyd (American band)\n\nPretty Boy Floyd is a glam metal band from Hollywood, California, formed in 1987. They are most famous for their 1989 debut album \"Leather Boyz with Electric Toyz\" and the two singles from it; \"Rock and Roll (Is Gonna Set the Night on Fire)\" and \"I Wanna Be with You\". The band broke up in 1991 but reformed in 1995, releasing several new records since that time, and continue to the present.\n\nAfter rehearsing and playing a few shows on the Sunset Strip, Pretty Boy Floyd got their big break at MCA Records. Their debut album named \"Leather Boyz with Electric Toyz\" was released in 1989 and produced by producer Howard Benson.\n\nTwo singles, and accompanying promotional videos were released from the album; \"Rock and Roll (Is Gonna Set the Night on Fire)\" and \"I Wanna Be with You\", which gained rotation on MTV. They were also having success in Europe at the time, by being the cover subject of hard rock magazine \"Kerrang!\" on December 16, 1989.\n\nPretty Boy Floyd became embroiled in a dispute over the copyright of their band name, with a Canadian band, also called Pretty Boy Floyd. The Canadian group released their debut \"Bullets and Lipstik\" the same year, but after a negotiated settlement agreed to surrender use of the name.\n\nTheir music featured on two film soundtracks, first the demo version of \"48 Hours\" was included on the 1989 film \"The Karate Kid Part III\". Two years later the previously unreleased \"Slam Dunk\" was released on the Ellen Barkin movie \"Switch\" soundtrack. However, by that time MCA Records had dropped the band.\n\nBy late 1995 Pretty Boy Floyd had reformed. They recorded a five-song EP, \"A Tale of Sex, Designer Drugs, and the Death of Rock n' Roll\", in 1998. The band featured former Big Bang Babies guitarist Keri Kelli, Steve Summers (Steven Podwalski), Kristy Majors (Chris Maggiore, Jr.), and Kari Kane (Cary Ayers).\n\nIn February 2006 they toured the United States and then broke up again. Majors released \"Sex, Drugs 'N' Rock N Roll\" and toured Europe in March 2007. On March 1, 2008, Majors and Kane joined Summers to play on stage at The Knitting Factory in Hollywood, California. In 2009, the band celebrated their 20th anniversary of the release of \"Leather Boyz with Electric Toyz\" with a world tour. Troy Patrick Farrell was hired as the drummer, and Criss 6 of Los Angeles-based Mötley Crüe tribute band \"True 2 Crue\" was hired as the new bassist.\n\nOriginal bassist, Vinnie Chas (Charles Pusateri) died on April 5, 2010 from heart failure. Kari Kane (Cary Ayers) has worked as a special effects make-up artist since 2011.\n\nIn April 2011, they announced a new album of original material and a tour to support the album. The band has also announced that Ben Graves formerly of Murderdolls and has been hired as the new drummer. They set out on the \"America Rocks Tour\" with Jack Russell's Great White, Faster Pussycat and Lillian Axe on June 15, 2012. During the tour, Majors and Summers got into an argument and the band ended up quitting the tour early. In April 2014 Majors announced his new band, \"Kristy Majors and the Thrill Kills\", which consisted of two previous members of Pretty Boy Floyd: JK Famous on bass and Ben Graves on drums. The band released one album and one music video.\n\nSummers kept busy by doing an album for the band Shameless as well as doing some solo shows worldwide.\n\nIn July 2015, Steve Summers and Kristy Majors announced they would reunite together and were in the process of finishing their album. The new version of the band included JK Famous on bass and Tod \"T\" Burr on drums. The band debuted at the Cathouse Live 30th Anniversary Festival in Irvine, California, and had a string of shows to follow. The band continued to tour through 2016 and were awarded at the Hair Metal Awards show in Las Vegas alongside Scorpions and Twisted Sister. In August 2016, the band parted ways with Tod \"T\" Burr and brought back Ben Graves on drums.\n\nCurrent\nFormer\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092557", "title": "List of Grand Slam women's singles champions", "text": "List of Grand Slam women's singles champions\n\nList of Women's singles Grand Slam tournaments tennis champions. Note that some major changes have taken place over the years that have affected how many titles have been won by various players. Most notable included the elimination of the challenge round in 1922, the opening of the French national championships to international competition in 1925, and the admission of professional players in 1968 (the start of the \"Open\" era). Since then, 52 women have won at least one grand slam.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the last 53 years, 54* women have won one or more major singles title. <nowiki>*</nowiki> Monica Seles is listed under United States, FR Yugoslavia & SFR Yugoslavia.\n\n‡ \"Australian Open was held in December from 1977 through 1985\"\n\nOnly three players have been able to win all four Majors in a single year.\n(*) Golden Slam (Steffi Graf also won the Olympic Gold medal in this year) \n\nThese players won all four majors. The year listed is the year the player first won each tournament; the last one is marked in bold. The age listed is the age at the end of that last tournament, i.e., the age at which the player completed her Career Grand Slam.\n\"Note: players with four titles are not included here. They are included above.\"\n\n\"Note: players with more than two titles are not included here.\"\n\n^ Years are \"italicized\" where a player won more than once in a calendar year\nOnly five countries (Australia, the United States, Belgium, Russia, and Italy) have had two countrywomen play in a Grand Slam final that took place after 1968.\n"}
{"id": "2092559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092559", "title": "Herbie Rides Again", "text": "Herbie Rides Again\n\nHerbie Rides Again is a 1974 American comedy film and the second installment of \"The Love Bug\" film series made by Walt Disney Productions starring an anthropomorphic (and quite autonomous) 1963 Volkswagen racing Beetle named Herbie. The movie was directed by Robert Stevenson, produced by Bill Walsh and starred Helen Hayes, Stefanie Powers, Ken Berry, and Keenan Wynn reprising his villainous role as Alonzo Hawk (originated in the films \"The Absent-Minded Professor\" and \"Son of Flubber\" starring Fred MacMurray as Professor Ned Brainard).\n\n\"Herbie Rides Again\" was followed by two more theatrical sequels, \"Herbie Goes to Monte Carlo\" and \"Herbie Goes Bananas\". A later theatrical sequel, \"\", was released in 2005.\n\nThe title is referenced in the trailer for the 1975 British comedy film \"Monty Python and the Holy Grail\".\n\nNotorious real estate magnate and demolition baron Alonzo Hawk (Keenan Wynn) is ready to build his newest indoor shopping center, the 130-story Hawk Plaza in San Francisco. His only obstacle is the 1892 firehouse inhabited by \"Grandma\" Steinmetz (Helen Hayes), widow of its former owner, Fire Captain Steinmetz, and aunt of mechanic Tennessee Steinmetz; her displaced neighbor, flight attendant Nicole Harris (Stefanie Powers); and their sentient machines: a 1963 Volkswagen Beetle known as Herbie, \"the Love Bug;\" an early 20th-century orchestrion that plays on its own; and a retired cable car from the defunct Clay Street Line, known as \"Old No. 22.\" \nHawk has made numerous attempts at evicting Mrs. Steinmetz, intending to imprison her in a retirement home of his own making; but Hawk's lawyers have been unsuccessful in these attempts, while Mr. Barnsdorf, the construction boss, is growing impatient with Hawk's alleged indecision, reminding him that the whole thing is costing him $80,000 a day (equal to $ today). Therefore, when Hawk's lawyer nephew Willoughby Whitfield (Ken Berry) comes to visit him, Hawk sends him to Mrs. Steinmetz in their stead.\n\nMrs. Steinmetz takes a liking to the young lawyer due to his youthful looks and good manners, in contrast to Hawk's henchmen. It is during her chatting with him that she explains the backstories of Herbie and Old No. 22, which Herbie found on a vacant lot whose owners were using it as a chicken house. She also explains that Tennessee has gone to Tibet to visit his ailing philosophy teacher, while Herbie's former owner, Jim Douglas, has gone to Europe racing foreign cars. On first meeting Willoughby, Nicole punches him in the face upon learning that he works for Hawk, but then tries to make up to him by offering him a ride in Herbie. Herbie goes berserk after Willoughby insults him twice, eventually taking the two to a car version of a joust tournament, which Herbie wins over a character named \"The Red Knight\" (strongly resembling retired racer Peter Thorndyke from the previous film), earning Willoughby a whopping $3.00 (equal to $ today). The two then go to lunch, but Nicole tells Willboughy an uninterrupted monologue on all the horrible things Hawk has done, including building a parking garage on the very same lot where Joe DiMaggio and his brothers learned to play baseball. Willoughby is upset about this and accidentally tells her that Hawk is his uncle, which enrages Nicole. She hits him with a broiled lobster in response, sending him splashing into the waters of Fisherman's Wharf below.\n\nHaving become disillusioned towards his uncle, Willoughby decides to tell him face to face that he will not continue doing his dirty work. However, as he is approaching the office, he overhears his uncle threatening body harm on him for not getting in contact, so he resorts to telling him on the phone instead. Hawk flips out and shouts at his nephew, shattering the glass on the phone booth. Having lost him, Hawk decides to resort to harassment to force Mrs. Steinmetz out, the first act of which is to capture Herbie. Hawk is initially successful with his hotwiring skills, but while driving him on the street, Hawk insults the car who retaliates by causing a series of traffic collisions and jams (even going as far as barging into a police car, which causes a chain reaction of wrecks) and discards Hawk at his own office door, where Hawk orders his subordinates to capture Herbie again, followed by a policeman giving Hawk several tickets for traffic offenses. While Herbie takes Mrs. Steinmetz to market, they are chased by Hawk's men; whereupon Herbie makes several daring escapes culminating in travelling through the 1909 landmark Sheraton Palace Hotel and along a suspension cable on the Golden Gate Bridge, leaving Mrs. Steinmetz unfazed (and unaware) of his activity throughout. Hawk's secretary catches sight of Herbie on the bridge, but Hawk assumes she's getting hysterical and orders her to take two aspirins and lie down.\n\nWilloughby initially tries to go home in disguise, but is convinced by Nicole to stay after she hears him criticize his uncle while talking to his mother on the telephone. Mrs. Steinmetz asks Nicole and Willoughby to pick up some more groceries for her, and then suggests that they ought to drive to the beach. Nicole insists that they will just go and get some broccoli, which Willoughby later confesses he doesn't like, but Herbie still goes to the beach as a result of Hawk's personal chauffeur chasing him, leading Nicole to think that Mrs. Steinmetz talked him into doing it. They enjoy a nice moment at the beach, with Willoughby and Nicole falling for each other.\n\nWhile heading home, they discover that the roadway has been blocked (due to Hawk's chauffeur having bribed a man to do so), so Herbie resorts to surfing through the coastal bay to find an alternate route. On their return to the firehouse after dark, they find that every item of furniture has been removed by Hawk; whereupon Mrs. Steinmetz, Willoughby, Nicole, and Herbie track the theft to a warehouse. The four break in and recover Steinmetz's belongings, all of which had been loaded into \"No. 22.\" Upon hearing Willoughby's voice, the orchestrion attracts their attention by playing \"Pomp and Circumstance.\" Hawk's hired security guards catch them in the act, but Herbie's acts of pushing other items off the warehouse shelves trap them and allow the trio to escape. Mrs. Steinmetz rides in \"No. 22,\" while Willoughby and Nicole follow in Herbie.\n\nAn inebriated old-timer named Judson (John McIntire) joins Mrs Steinmetz aboard \"No. 22,\" thinking himself on a public cable car. Hawk pursues upon discovering the trio escaped, but Herbie distracts him and later rescues Mrs. Steinmetz and Judson from a potential crash after \"No. 22\" rolls down a hill (as well as into a building during a special dinner party) by getting Willoughby close enough so that he can jump aboard and use the handbrake. During this time, Mrs. Steinmetz becomes enamored with Judson (while being entirely oblivious to the fact the car is rolling down the hill).\n\nThe next morning, Mrs. Steinmetz decides to confront Hawk herself. Accompanied by Willoughby in spite of Nicole telling him not to let her do this, Mrs. Steinmetz drives Herbie onto the window-cleaning machine of Hawk’s skyscraper to reach his 28th-floor office (after Hawk fired his window cleaner), where they overhear a telephoned conversation with Loostgarten (Chuck McCann), an independent demolition agent, about the deal to demolish the firehouse. In response, she activates the window cleaning machine to fill the office with foam and water. This done, Herbie pursues Hawk around the building's perimeter (in response to Hawk throwing an ashtray at him) - even following him outside onto a ledge - until Mrs Steinmetz orders him to desist by mentioning a used car lot, and saying she would have to hate to call the used car man, Mr. Honest Al.\n\nDisguising his voice to resemble his uncle's, Willoughby directs Loostgarten to demolish Hawk's own house. Late that evening, Loostgarten telephones Hawk to confirm the demolition, waking Hawk from several nightmares showing himself at the mercy of Herbie; Hawk then gives confirmation, but realizes too late that he has condemned his own residence, and subsequently attacks Loostgarten after a portion of his house is collapsed from a wrecking ball.\n\nIn the morning, Hawk calls a truce with Mrs. Steinmetz (as well as plant a phony story in the newspaper with the headline \"HAWK GIVES UP\"!), and thinking him to be sincere, Willoughby and Nicole go for dinner (to the same restaurant they were before when Nicole hit Willoughby with the broiled lobster), while Mrs. Steinmetz invites Judson to a similar meeting; in spite of this, Hawk violates the truce by sending earthmovers to crush the firehouse and its inhabitants, prompting Herbie to go in search of Nicole and Willoughby. In the absence of Herbie, the only means of defense is an antique fire hose, which Judson uses against the earthmovers, until it explodes and sprays all over him.\n\nHaving obtained Nicole and Willoughby, Herbie rounds up several other Volkswagen Beetles from various places in the city (some of which leave their owners behind), and comes after Hawk and his men as an army and ruin his scheme, taking advantage of Hawk's irrational fear of Herbie. Hawk is pursued from the grounds by Herbie, and after nearly getting knocked down by a police car, Hawk is arrested after telling his bizarre tale of an army of Beetles chasing him. Later, Nicole and Willoughby are married, and ride Herbie through an arch formed by his new Volkswagen Beetle friends.\n\nFritz Feld, who appears as the Maitre d', and Vito Scotti, who plays the Italian cab driver, also appear in the sequel \"Herbie Goes Bananas\" as crewmen of the ship \"Sun Princess\". Dan Tobin, Raymond Bailey, Iggie Wolfington, Robert S. Carson, and John Zaremba played Hawk's attorneys; Disney regular Norman Grabowski played \"Security guard #2;\" John Myhers played the San Francisco's Office of the President announcer; and Alan Carney played a judge at the Chicken Tournament.\n\nThe GAF View-Master reel set for the film shows a still from a deleted sequence where one of Hawk's nightmares has him about to be treated by a pair of white VW Beetle doctors, who decide to \"take his carburetor out and have a look at it\". As they approach Hawk, he is woken by Loostgarten.\n\nThe Herbies used for the film consisted both of 1963 and 1965 Beetles.\n\nThe included 1965 models make for some bad continuity errors as the windows are noticeably larger on the 1965 cars. This was to become worse in subsequent Herbie films as even later model cars were included.\n\nOne of the VW Beetles used in the deleted nightmare sequence (see above) was first used in \"The Love Bug\" as a stunt car during the El Dorado race (also used for interior filming). Many years after \"Herbie Rides Again\", the car's red cross, mechanical arms, and eyeball headlights were removed and restored to former appearance.\n\n\"Hawk Plaza\" is shown as a shining, twin-tower 130-story San Francisco skyscraper touted as \"The World's Highest Building\". Coincidentally, \"The Towering Inferno\", released six months later, featured \"The Glass Tower,\" a shining, single-tower 138-story San Francisco skyscraper touted as \"The Tallest Building in the World.\" In actuality, New York's twin towers of the World Trade Center, \"The Tallest Buildings in the World\" had officially opened in 1973, and Chicago's 108-story Sears Tower claimed that title in May 1974, just one month before \"Herbie Rides Again\" was released.\n\n\"Herbie Rides Again\" opened on June 6, 1974 in 2,178 theaters and 1,761 drive-in theaters. The film grossed $38,229,000 at the United States and Canada box office, generating Disney $17,500,000 in theatrical rentals. The film earned rentals of around $13,300,000 overseas, giving worldwide rentals of almost $31 million.\n\n\"Herbie Rides Again\" was released on VHS on October 15, 1981, re-released on November 6, 1985, January 5, 1992, October 28, 1994 and September 16, 1997. It was first released on DVD in Region 1 on May 4, 2004 and was re-released as a 2-DVD double feature set along with \"Herbie Goes to Monte Carlo\" on April 26, 2009. On September 2, 2012, \"Herbie Rides Again\" was re-released on DVD as part of Herbie: 4-Movie Collection along with \"The Love Bug\", \"Herbie Goes to Monte Carlo\" and \"Herbie Goes Bananas\". The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on December 16, 2014 as a Disney Movie Club exclusive title.\n\nVincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"There's nothing harmful about 'Herbie Rides Again'; it's simply not very good.\" \"Variety\" reported, \"It should prove gleeful enough for the kiddies, and at the short and sweet unspooling time of 88 minutes, painless pleasantry for adult chaperones as well.\" Charles Champlin of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote that the film \"suffers from the slackening of freshness and invention which so often bedevils sequels ... Still, 'Herbie Rides Again' preserves the bright, unreal feeling of that special Disney world which more and more is a world to itself.\" Gene Siskel gave the film two-and-a-half stars out of four and called it \"a surprisingly tolerable sequel.\"\n\n\"Herbie Rides Again\" presently holds a score of 80% at Rotten Tomatoes based on 5 reviews.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092566", "title": "Weldability", "text": "Weldability\n\nThe weldability, also known as joinability, of a material refers to its ability to be welded. Many metals and thermoplastics can be welded, but some are easier to weld than others (see Rheological weldability). A material's weldability is used to determine the welding process and to compare the final weld quality to other materials.\n\nWeldability is often hard to define quantitatively, so most standards define it qualitatively. For instance the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) defines weldability in ISO standard 581-1980 as: \"Metallic material is considered to be susceptible to welding to an established extent with given processes and for given purposes when welding provides metal integrity by a corresponding technological process for welded parts to meet technical requirements as to their own qualities as well as to their influence on a structure they form.\" Other welding organizations define it similarly.\n\nFor steel there are three major failure modes by which weldability can be measured: \"hydrogen-induced cold cracking\", \"lamellar tearing\", and \"spot-weld peeling\". The most prominent of these is hydrogen induced cold cracking.\n\nThe weldability of steel, with regard to hydrogen-induced cold cracking, is inversely proportional to the hardenability of the steel, which measures the ease of forming martensite during heat treatment. The hardenability of steel depends on its chemical composition, with greater quantities of carbon and other alloying elements resulting in a higher hardenability and thus a lower weldability. In order to be able to judge alloys made up of many distinct materials, a measure known as the equivalent carbon content is used to compare the relative weldabilities of different alloys by comparing their properties to a plain carbon steel. The effect on weldability of elements like chromium and vanadium, while not as great as carbon, is more significant than that of copper and nickel, for example. As the equivalent carbon content rises, the weldability of the alloy decreases.\n\nHigh-strength low-alloy steels (HSLA) were developed especially for welding applications during the 1970s, and these generally easy to weld materials have good strength, making them ideal for many welding applications.\n\nStainless steels, because of their high chromium content, tend to behave differently with respect to weldability than other steels. Austenitic grades of stainless steels tend to be the most weldable, but they are especially susceptible to distortion due to their high coefficient of thermal expansion. Some alloys of this type are prone to cracking and reduced corrosion resistance as well. Hot cracking is possible if the amount of ferrite in the weld is not controlled—to alleviate the problem, an electrode is used that deposits a weld metal containing a small amount of ferrite. Other types of stainless steels, such as ferritic and martensitic stainless steels, are not as easily welded, and must often be preheated and welded with special electrodes.\n\nLamellar tearing is a type of failure mode that only occurs in rolled steel products that has been virtually eliminated with cleaner steels.\n\nThe excessive hardenability that can occur when spot welding HSLA steel can be an issue. The equivalent carbon content can be used as a parameter to evaluate the propensity for failure.\n\nThe weldability of aluminium alloys varies significantly, depending on the chemical composition of the alloy used. Aluminium alloys are susceptible to hot cracking, and to combat the problem, welders increase the welding speed to lower the heat input. Preheating reduces the temperature gradient across the weld zone and thus helps reduce hot cracking, but it can reduce the mechanical properties of the base material and should not be used when the base material is restrained. The design of the joint can be changed as well, and a more compatible filler alloy can be selected to decrease the likelihood of hot cracking. Aluminium alloys should also be cleaned prior to welding, with the goal of removing all oxides, oils, and loose particles from the surface to be welded. This is especially important because of an aluminium weld's susceptibility to porosity due to hydrogen and dross due to oxygen.\n\nWhile weldability can be generally defined for various materials, some welding processes work better for a given material than others. Even within a certain process the quality of the weld may vary greatly depending on parameters, such as the electrode material, shielding gases, welding speed, and cooling rate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092576", "title": "Dym equation", "text": "Dym equation\n\nIn mathematics, and in particular in the theory of solitons, the Dym equation (HD) is the third-order partial differential equation\n\nIt is often written in the equivalent form for some function v of one space variable and time \n\nThe Dym equation first appeared in Kruskal and is attributed to an unpublished paper by Harry Dym.\n\nThe Dym equation represents a system in which dispersion and nonlinearity are coupled together. HD is a completely integrable nonlinear evolution equation that may be solved by means of the inverse scattering transform. It obeys an infinite number of conservation laws; it does not possess the Painlevé property.\n\nThe Dym equation has strong links to the Korteweg–de Vries equation. C.S. Gardner, J.M. Greene, Kruskal and R.M. Miura applied [Dym equation] to the solution of corresponding problem in Korteweg–de Vries equation. The Lax pair of the Harry Dym equation is associated with the Sturm–Liouville operator.\nThe Liouville transformation transforms this operator isospectrally into the Schrödinger operator.\nThus by the inverse Liouville transformation solutions of the Korteweg–de Vries equation are transformed\ninto solutions of the Dym equation. An explicit solution of the Dym equation, valid in a finite interval, is found by an auto-Bäcklund transform\n"}
{"id": "2092588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092588", "title": "Colonel Tye", "text": "Colonel Tye\n\nTitus Cornelius, also known as Titus, Tye, and famously as Colonel Tye ( – 1780), was a slave of African descent in the Province of New Jersey who fought as a Black Loyalist during the American Revolutionary War; he was known for his leadership and fighting skills. He fought with a volunteer corps of escaped Virginia Colony slaves in the Ethiopian Regiment and the \"Black Brigade\" associators. Tye died from tetanus and lockjaw from a musket wound in the wrist following a short siege in September 1780 against Captain Joshua Huddy. Tye was one of the most feared and effective guerrilla leaders opposing the American patriot forces in central New Jersey.\n\nTitus Cornelius was born into slavery in Colt's Neck, Monmouth County, Province of New Jersey and originally owned by John Corlies, a Quaker. Corlies's farm was located along the Navesink River, near the town of Shrewsbury, and Titus worked there in his early life. At the onset of the American Revolution, there were about 8,200 slaves in the Province of New Jersey, second only to the Province of New York among the northern American colonies, in both the number and percentage of African-Americans. Corlies, Titus's owner, held slaves despite his denomination's increasing opposition to slavery.\n\nBy the 1760s, it was Quaker practice to teach slaves how to read and write and to free them at age 21. Yet, Corlies gave his slaves \"no learning [and was] not inclined to give them any\". Known to be hard on his slaves, Corlies severely whipped them for minor causes. Corlies also kept his slaves past the age of 21, and he was one of the last slaveholders in the region. In late 1775, a delegation from the Shrewsbury Meeting of the Society of Friends approached Corlies about his treatment of his slaves. The group of Quakers disapproved of Corlies's refusal to provide his slaves an education and his lack of adherence to the 1758 Quaker edict to end slavery. Corlies responded by saying that \"he has not seen it his duty to give [the slaves] their freedom\". Titus learned on his own about property, wealth, commodities, and the political leanings of the families in the area. Later, in 1778, the Society of Friends revoked Corlies's membership because of his unyielding refusal to emancipate his slaves.\n\nIn November 1775, John Murray, 4th Earl of Dunmore, the royal governor of Virginia, issued a proclamation offering freedom to all slaves and indentured servants who would leave American masters and join the British. Lord Dunmore's act successfully prompted conspiracy among slaves in the Atlantic region, as many African Americans left their rebel masters to join the British. The proclamation and the disruption of the war contributed to an estimated nearly 100,000 slaves escaping during the Revolution, some to join the British. Planters considered Dunmore's offer a \"diabolical scheme\"; it contributed to their support for the Patriot cause.\n\nTitus Cornelius coincidentally escaped from Corlies's property the day after Dunmore's proclamation and he joined British forces. Titus observed the Quakers' unsuccessful attempts to persuade Corlies to free his slaves. Reaching his twenty-first birthday also inspired Titus to escape, as it marked the age when most Quakers freed their slaves. Carrying only a small amount of clothing \"drawn up at one end with string\", Titus left Corlies's property and walked toward Williamsburg, Virginia. Corlies placed advertisements in Pennsylvania newspapers, promising a reward of \"three pounds of proclamation money\" for capturing Titus.\n\nAssuming the adopted name of \"Tye\", Titus enlisted in the Ethiopian Regiment. In his first experience seeing action at the Battle of Monmouth in June 1778, Tye captured Captain Elisha Shepard of the Monmouth militia and brought him to his imprisonment at the Sugar House in British-occupied New York City. Fought near Freehold, New Jersey, the Battle of Monmouth proved to be indecisive militarily, but it introduced British and Patriot forces to Tye's great ability as a soldier.\n\nColonel Tye's knowledge of the topography of Monmouth County and his bold leadership soon made him a well-known and feared Loyalist guerrilla commander. The British paid him and his group, consisting of blacks and whites, to destabilize the region. Orchestrated by Royal Governor William Franklin, the Loyalist son of Benjamin Franklin, this plan was an act of retaliation, in response to the Patriot confiscation of Tory properties. When Monmouth Patriots began to hang captured Tories under the vigilante law that governed Monmouth County, Franklin and other British officials raided Patriot towns. On July 15, 1779, accompanied by a Tory named, John Moody and 50 African Americans, Tye executed a daring raid on Shrewsbury, New Jersey, during which they captured 80 cattle, 20 horses, and William Brindley and Elisha Cook, two well-known inhabitants. British officers paid Tye and his men five gold guineas for their successful raids. Tye and his fellow guerrilla fighters operated out of a forested base called Refugeetown in Sandy Hook. They often targeted wealthy, slaveholding Patriots during their assaults, which frequently took place at night. Tye led several successful raids during the summer of 1779, seizing food and fuel, taking prisoners, and freeing many slaves.\n\nBy the winter of 1779, Colonel Tye served with the \"Black Brigade\", a group of 24 black Loyalists. Tye's group worked in tandem with a white Loyalist unit, known as the \"Queen's Rangers\", to defend British-occupied New York City. Traveling undetected into the towns of Monmouth County, Tye and his men seized cattle, forage, and silverplate, and returned the resources to the weakened British forces. The Black Brigade also helped to usher escaping slaves to their freedom inside British lines, and later assisted their transportation to Nova Scotia for resettlement. They also raided patriot sympathizers in New Jersey, captured them, and brought them to the British in return for rewards. Due to their unjust treatment as slaves, the Black Brigade often aimed their raids at former masters and their friends. Because the members of the Black Brigade knew the homes of Patriots from their time as slaves, the Patriots feared the Black Brigade more than the regular British army.\n\nHenry Muhlenberg, a German Lutheran pastor sent to the colonies as a missionary, commented on how formidable the Black Brigade was: \"The worst is to be feared from the irregular troops whom the so-called Tories have assembled from various nationalities– for example, a regiment of Catholics, a regiment of Negroes, who are fitted for and inclined towards barbarities, are lack in human feeling and are familiar with every corner of the country.\" Reports that African Americans planned massacres of whites in Elizabeth and in Somerset County inflamed the local population's fear of Tye and his men. Led by David Forman, the brigadier general of the New Jersey militia, the Monmouth County Whigs organized the Association for Retaliation to protect themselves against Tye and other Loyalist raids. Panicked white Patriots pleaded with Governor William Livingston to send assistance. For example, David Forman wrote to Livingston detailing the extent of Tye's attacks. Livingston responded by invoking martial law. This was a catalyst that convinced more African Americans to flee to British-held New York. For example, 29 male and female African Americans left slave owners in Bergen County during this time. In response, Livingston and his officials encouraged slaveholders to remove their slaves to more remote parts of New Jersey.\n\nOn March 30, 1780, the Black Brigade captured Captain James Green and Ensign John Morris. In the same raid, Tye and his men looted and burned the home of John Russell, a Patriot known for his raids on Staten Island. Shortly thereafter, Tye and his men killed Russell and wounded his young son.\n\nBeginning in June 1780, Tye led more attacks in Monmouth County. His forces attacked and killed Joseph Murray in his home in retaliation for Murray's vigilante executions of loyalists. He also raided Barnes Smock, a leader of Patriot militia in Monmouth County. Tye captured 12 of Smock's supporters and destroyed his artillery. In one noteworthy raid on June 22, 1780, Tye and his men captured James Mott, the second major in the Monmouth's militia regiment; James Johnson, a captain in the Hunterdon militia, and 6 other militia men. On September 1, 1780, Tye led a small group of African Americans and Queen's Rangers to Colt's Neck, New Jersey, with the aim of raiding the home of Captain Joshua Huddy. Known for his swift execution of captured Loyalists, Huddy was an important target for Tye and his band. Tye briefly captured Huddy, but in a surprise attack, a party of Patriots helped Huddy escape. Huddy and a female servant had managed to resist Tye's band for two hours before the Loyalists set fire to the house. The Patriots injured Tye in the fight, firing a musket ball through his wrist.\n\nColonel Tye developed tetanus and gangrene from the wound suffered in the raid against Huddy. Tye died two days later from the infection.\n\nColonel Stephen Blucke, who commanded the Black Loyalist unit, the Black Company of Pioneers, led Tye's troops following his death. Blucke successfully led the group for the rest of the war, even operating after the British surrender at Yorktown. On March 24, 1782, a group of avenging Tories captured the rebel Huddy and interned him aboard a British prison ship. On April 12, 1782, the Tories hanged Huddy on a beach at the foot of the Navesink Highlands.\n\nOften considered one of the most effective and respected African-American soldiers of the Revolution, Tye made significant contributions to the British cause. Although never commissioned an officer by the British Army, Colonel Tye earned his honorary title as a sign of respect for his tactical and leadership skills. The British often granted such titles to other noteworthy black officers in Jamaica and other West Indian islands. The British army did not formally appoint anyone of African descent to such positions; however, the Royal Navy did commission black officers. Tye's knowledge of the swamps, rivers, and inlets in Monmouth County was integral to the British efforts in New Jersey during the war. As the commander of the Black Brigade, he led raids against American patriots, seized supplies, and assassinated Patriot leaders during the war.\n\nColonel Tye served as an example of the role of African Americans during the Revolutionary War. Lord Dunmore's proclamation involved the African-American population in the war in a manner not yet seen. The promise of freedom inspired African-American men like Tye to join the Loyalist cause. Tye and his men captured important Patriot militiamen, launched numerous raids, and seized scarce resources from the local population. Their actions gained the attention of Governor William Livingston, who invoked martial law in New Jersey as a result in an attempt to restore order. The actions of Tye and other former slaves provoked whites' fear that wartime abolition would cause further dislocation and disorder in the region. Further, Tye's exploits intensified white anxieties about slave revolt and served to reinforce anti-abolition sentiment.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092595", "title": "Destined to Witness", "text": "Destined to Witness\n\nDestined to Witness: Growing Up Black in Nazi Germany (), is an autobiographical book by Hans J. Massaquoi.\n\nIn his 1999 autobiography the author, former managing editor of \"Ebony\", tells the story of his growing up in Hamburg. He was born in 1926 as son of a German mother and a Liberian law student, the only independent black African state at that time apart from Ethiopia. His grandfather was the Liberian consul-general to Hamburg. When his father and grandfather went back to Liberia in 1929, his mother decided to stay in Germany. She made her living working as a nurse, and she and the little boy had to move from the elegant villa to a modest cold-water apartment in the workers’ quarter Barmbek. He was shunned but was never a target of Nazi persecution like Jews and Roma were. He was rebuffed when he applied for membership in the \"Hitler Jugend\" (Hitler Youth), while every young male Aryan German was obliged to be a member. Because he was underweight, he was not drafted to join the German Army.\n\nIn the 1930s only a few black people lived in Germany, most of them in the Rhine area, children of German mothers and French-African soldiers. During World War I France had recruited troops from its African colonies, mainly from Senegal. These children in the French-occupied Rhineland were called \"Franzosenkinder\" (Frenchmen's children). In the northern part of Germany black people were so rare that most people had never seen one.\nNazi Germans considered mixed race children, like Massaquoi, a threat to the racial purity they sought. Many black and mixed race children were rounded up and sterilized or used for scientific experiments. Some were held in concentration camps and some simply “disappeared.\" Massaquoi was fortunate enough not to be detained by the Nazis and explains that, “blacks were so few in numbers that they were relegated to low-priority status in the Nazis' lineup for extermination.\"\nIn the book, Hans Massaquoi describes his childhood dream to join the Hitler Youth. The Hitler Youth was established in 1926 to recruit soldiers, but in 1933 it transitioned to a new role teaching children loyalty to Hitler and Nazism. In German schools like the one Massaquoi attended, children were taught “love for Hitler, obedience to state authority, militarism, racism, and anti-Semitism.” When Massaquoi describes his longing to be a “good German” like he was taught in school, and is greatly disappointed when he is told he cannot join the Hitler Youth like his classmates who all “had cool uniforms and they did exciting things — camping, parades, playing drums.\"\n\n\"Destined to Witness\", in German titled \"Neger, Neger, Schornsteinfeger\" (Negro, Negro, Chimney Sweep), was a great success in Germany, remaining on top of the bestselling list of the German weekly \"Der Spiegel\" for a couple of months. A screenplay has been adapted from the book and movie shooting started in 2005. The film was run first on October 1 and 2 in 2006 as a two-parter on German ZDF TV channel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092601", "title": "Jewel McGowan", "text": "Jewel McGowan\n\nJewel McGowan (1921-1962) is best known as a dancer of Lindy Hop, a form of swing dance, in the 1940s and 1950s. She also danced in other, non-swing films, and with modern jazz dance pioneer Jack Cole. She is known among dance aficionados as the frequent partner of dancer Dean Collins. McGowan was considered by her fellow Los Angeles dancers to be the best female swing dancer who ever lived. In addition to their social dancing, Collins and McGowan appeared together as dancers in films of the era. They were partners for 11 years. McGowan is especially known for her hip swivels.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092607", "title": "As Fast As", "text": "As Fast As\n\n\"\"Rocktopus\" can also refer to the 3d model which is the mascot of the LulzBot Mini desktop 3D printer\"\n\nAs Fast As, formerly known as Rocktopus, is an alternative rock/power pop band from Portland, Maine, USA which formed in 2001. The band was formed as Rocktopus and released two albums under that name before changing their name to As Fast As. \n\nThe band consists of vocalist and keyboardist Spencer Albee (formerly of Rustic Overtones), bassist Haché Horchatta, guitarist Zach Jones and drummer Andrew Hodgkins.\n\nTheir first album, \"Open Letter to the Damned\", was released on Octone Records in May 2006 and features the single \"Florida Sunshine\". The song was played on an episode of \"\", as well as in the promotional advertisements for the series. As Fast As left Octone Records due to \"a difference in creative vision\". On March 11, 2008, the band released \"Destroy the Plastique Man\" independently. The band stopped playing in August 2008, but despite Albee being busy with his new project Spencer and the School Spirit Mafia, the band reformed for a one-off concert at The Asylum in Portland on July 18, 2009, and released a new album, \"AFA For Effort\", on June 23.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092611", "title": "Hakea", "text": "Hakea\n\nHakea is a genus of about 150 species of plants in the Family \"Proteaceae\" and are endemic to Australia. They are shrubs or small trees with leaves that are sometimes flat, otherwise circular in cross section in which case they are sometimes divided. The flowers are usually arranged in groups in leaf axils and resemble those of other genera, especially \"Grevillea\". Hakeas have woody fruit which distinguishes them from grevilleas which have non-woody fruit which release the seeds as they mature. Hakeas are found in every state of Australia with the highest species diversity being found in the south west of Western Australia.\n\nPlants in the genus \"Hakea\" are shrubs or small trees. Some species have flat leaves, whilst others have leaves which are needle-like, in which case they are sometimes divided and sometimes have a groove on the lower surface. The flowers are arranged in groups in leaf axils and are surrounded by bracts when in bud. The flowers have both male and female parts and are borne on a short stalk called a pedicel. The sepals and petals, jointly called tepals, form a curved tube which sometimes splits open as the flower develops. The style is longer than the tepal tube and is curved before its tip is released. When released, the tip of the style is a pollen-presenter. The fruit of hakeas is woody and persists on the plant until burned in a bushfire or until the plant dies. The fruit then splits open to release two winged seeds.\n\nMany species of hakea are similar to species of \"Grevillea\" but are distinguished from them in having persistent, woody fruits. (Those of grevilleas are not persistent and not woody. The upper and lower surfaces of the leaves of hakeas are similar (dissimilar in grevilleas), and the ovary and style are glabrous (hairy in grevilleas).\n\nThe genus \"Hakea\" was first formally described in 1797 by Heinrich Schrader and Johann Christoph Wendland and the description was published in \"Sertum Hannoveranum\". The genus is named after Baron Christian Ludwig von Hake, an 18th-century German patron of botany.\n\nSpecies of hakea are found in all states of Australia.\n\nHakeas are popular ornamental plants in gardens in Australia, and in many locations are as common as grevilleas and banksias. Several hybrids and cultivars have been developed, including 'Burrendong Beauty'. They are best grown in beds of light soil which are watered but still well drained.\n\nSome showy western species, such as \"Hakea multilineata\", \"H. francisiana\" and \"H. bucculenta\", require grafting onto hardy stock such as \"Hakea salicifolia\" for growing in more humid climates, as they are sensitive to dieback.\n\nMany species, particularly eastern Australian species, are notable for their hardiness, to the point they have become weedy. \"Hakea gibbosa\", \"H. sericea\", and \"H. drupacea\" (previously \"H. suaveolens\") have been weeds in South Africa, \"Hakea laurina\" has become naturalized in the eastern states of Australia and is considered an environmental weed, and \"Hakea salicifolia\", \"Hakea gibbosa\", and \"Hakea sericea\" are invasive weeds in New Zealand.\n\nThe following is a list of \"Hakea\" species recognised by the Australian Plant Census, except for \"Hakea asperma\" which is recognised by the Royal Botanic Gardens Victoria:\n\nSeveral hybrids and cultivars have been developed including \"Hakea\" 'Burrendong Beauty'\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092615", "title": "Valentine Ball", "text": "Valentine Ball\n\nValentine Ball (14 July 1843 – 15 June 1895) was an Irish geologist, son of Robert Ball (1802-1857) and a brother of Sir Robert Ball. Ball worked in India for twenty years before returning to take up a position in Ireland.\n\nValentine was the second son of Robert Ball and was born in Dublin. He received his early education at Chester and later at the private schools of Dr. Henry and Dr. Benson at Dublin. He then went to the University of Dublin obtaining a B.A. in 1864, M.A. in 1872 and LL.D. in 1889. He was elected Fellow of the Geological Society of London in 1874.\n\nBall joined the Geological Survey of India in 1864 and served until 1881. He also contributed to studies in ornithology and anthropology. He was made a Fellow of the Calcutta University in 1875. His expertise on central India where he had explored for coal-fields also led to his advice being sought for the alignment of the railway line to be laid between Bombay and Calcutta. Returning to Ireland in 1881, he became professor of geology and mineralogy at the University of Dublin. In 1883 he became director of the Dublin Science and Art Museum, now the National Museum of Ireland. He was a secretary of the Royal Geological Society.\n\nHe was a regular contributor to \"Stray Feathers\", the ornithological journal founded by Allan Octavian Hume. The Andaman scops owl (\"Otus balli\") was named after him by Hume. His writings included \"Jungle-Life in India\" (1880), \"The Diamonds, Coal, and Gold of India\" (1881), \"The Economic Geology of India\" (1881), translation of \"Tavernier's Travels in India\" (1889) and numerous notes to the journals.\n\nBall married the eldest daughter of John Stewart Moore, of Moyarget, Antrim in 1869 and had four children. Two of his daughters, Maude Mary Ball and Ethel Gresley Ball were artists.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092626", "title": "Irving Fine", "text": "Irving Fine\n\nIrving Gifford Fine (December 3, 1914 – August 23, 1962) was an American composer. Fine's work assimilated neoclassical, romantic, and serial elements. Composer Virgil Thomson described Fine's \"unusual melodic grace\" while Aaron Copland noted the \"elegance, style, finish and...convincing continuity\" of Fine's music.\n\nFine was a member of a close-knit group of Boston composers in the mid-20th century who were sometimes called the \"Boston Six\" or \"Boston School.\" Other members of the Boston School included Arthur Berger, Leonard Bernstein, Aaron Copland, Lukas Foss, and Harold Shapero.\n\nFine was born in Boston, Massachusetts, where he studied piano, and received both bachelor's and master's degrees from Harvard University, where he was a pupil of Walter Piston. Fine was a conducting pupil of Serge Koussevitzky, served as pianist for the Boston Symphony Orchestra, and studied composition with Nadia Boulanger at the Fontainebleau School of Music in Paris and at Radcliffe College. From 1939 until 1950, he taught music theory at Harvard and conducted its Glee Club, becoming a close associate of Leonard Bernstein, Igor Stravinsky and Aaron Copland. From 1950, he taught at Brandeis University, where he was Walter S. Naumburg Professor of Music and founded the School of Creative Arts. Between 1946 and 1957, he also taught composition at the Tanglewood Music Festival in the Berkshires.\n\nIrving Fine died in Natick, Massachusetts in August 1962. He was 47 years of age. The cause of death was heart disease.\n\nAmong Fine's compositions are a violin sonata; a string quartet; Fantasia for string trio; \"Music for Piano\"; Partita for wind quintet; \"Toccata concertante\" for orchestra; Notturno for strings and harp; \"Serious Song\", subtitled a \"lament for string orchestra\"; \"Diversions\" for piano and orchestra; and the Symphony (1962), which premiered at Tanglewood less than two weeks before his untimely death following a heart attack (Fine conducted the premiere when Charles Munch, who was originally to have conducted, fell ill).\n\nFine's choral works, which are frequently performed, include two sets of choruses from \"Alice in Wonderland\"; \"Childhood Fables for Grown-ups\", settings of various poems about his composer friends, including Leonard Bernstein, Lukas Foss, and Harold Shapero; \"The Choral New Yorker,\" \"The Hour-Glass,\" \"McCord's Menagerie,\" and \"Mutability\" song cycles; and others. He also created choral arrangements of his colleague and friend Aaron Copland's \"Old American Songs.\"\n\nNotable composition students of Irving Fine include Gustav Ciamaga, Noël Lee, Halim El-Dabh, and Richard Wernick. Towards the end of his life, Fine notably collaborated with Wernick on the musical \"Maggie\", a work based on the Stephen Crane novel of the same name. A Professorship of Music at Brandeis University is named in Fine's honor. The composer Arthur Berger served as Irving G. Fine Professor of Music from 1969 to 1980 (and as Emeritus Professor until his death in 2003). The current Irving G. Fine Professor of Music is Eric Chasalow.\n\nBrandeis University is also home to the Irving Fine Society, founded in 2006 by music director Nicholas Alexander Brown. The society comprises the Irving Fine Singers and the Gifford 5, a woodwind quintet. The mission of the society is to perform \"the music of 20th and 21st century composers who have made significant contributions to the longevity of classical music,\" frequently performing the music of its namesake, Irving Fine.\n\nFine's honors included two Guggenheim Fellowships, a Fulbright Research Fellowship, and awards from the National Institute of Arts and Letters and the New York Music Critics' Circle, among others, as well as numerous commissions.\n\n\n\n\n\nA biography, \"Irving Fine: An American Composer in His Time\", by author, composer, and pianist Phillip Ramey, was published in 2005 by the Library of Congress and Pendragon Press, and received the 2006 Nicolas Slonimsky Award for Outstanding Musical Biography from ASCAP.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092632", "title": "East Asia Institute (Ludwigshafen)", "text": "East Asia Institute (Ludwigshafen)\n\nThe East Asia Institute (German: Ostasieninstitut) founded in 1989, as part of the Ludwigshafen University of Applied Sciences. It offers four year or eight semester programmes (BA) in international business management combined with country module of Korea, Japan and China covering cultural and language studies.\n\nThe mission of the Institute extends beyond education to include the facilitation of business relations between the state of Rheinland-Palatinate and Asia (especially China and Japan).\n\nCurrently the Institute benefits from a steady partnership with the Chinese province Fujian and the Japanese region Iwate. The Institute is also a partner in business consulting MSEs and global companies doing business in Asia.\n\nDepending on the country module chosen students spend one year (5th and 6th semesters) in China, Korea or Japan studying at one of our affiliated universities. Students may elect to complement their studies by completing an apprenticeship.\n\nThe East Asia Institute has partnerships to the following institutions in the People's Republic of China, Korea and Japan:\n\nEnrolment in the programme is limited resulting in small cohorts of selected students who largely stay together for the duration of their studies except during the year abroad where students are at different universities in China and Japan. The small group sizes and low teacher-to-student ratio leads to a strong group identity which extends beyond the studies in the form of a graduate network.\n\nStEAM (Students of East Asia Marketing) is a student association which, among other, functions contributes positively to student life by promoting cultural and social events for students.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092639", "title": "Joshua Seney", "text": "Joshua Seney\n\nJoshua Seney (March 4, 1756 – October 20, 1798) was an American farmer and lawyer from Queen Anne's County, Maryland. He represented the state of Maryland in the Continental Congress, and the second district of Maryland in the House of Representatives.\n\nJoshua was born to John Seney (1730–1795) and Ruth (née Benton) Seney in 1756 on the family farm near Church Hill, Maryland. His grandfather, Solomon, was a French Huguenot refugee who arrived in Maryland around 1727. By the time Joshua was born the family were prosperous farmers and planters. He was educated in local schools and then attended the College of Philadelphia (now the University of Pennsylvania), graduating in 1773.\n\nAfter Seney was admitted to the bar, he confined himself to a private practice. In 1779, he served as the High Sheriff of Queen Anne's County, Maryland.\n\nDuring the early days of the Revolutionary War Seney busied himself with the care of the family's farms since his father was active as a Lt. Colonel in the militia. He was appointed the sheriff of Queen Anne's County in 1779. He was elected to the Maryland state House of Delegates, and served there from 1785 to 1787. In 1788, Seney was sent as a delegate to the Continental Congress.\n\nAfter returning to his farm, Seney was again called to political service when he was elected to the First United States Congress in 1789. He was re-elected for the 1791–1793 term as an Anti-Administration candidate but resigned from Congress on December 6, 1792 to take up his new duties as a judge of the state court for the district of Baltimore. He served as Chief Justice of the Third Judicial District of Maryland from 1792 to 1796.\n\nIn 1798, Seney ran for Congress again as a Republican. He defeated the incumbent Federalist, William Hindman but died before taking office.\n\nSeney was married to Frances \"Fanny\" Nicholson (1771–1851) of the prominent Nicholson family of Maryland. Fanny was the daughter of Commodore James Nicholson and was the sister of Catherine \"Kitty\" Nicholson (wife of William Few), Hannah Nicholson (wife of Albert Gallatin), James Witter Nicholson (husbanbd of Ann Griffin, daughter of Isaac Griffin), Maria Nicholson (wife of John Montgomery), and Jehoiadden Nicholson (wife of James Chrystie). Together, Joshua and Fanny were the parents of:\n\n\nSeney died at home on October 20, 1798 and was buried in a family plot on his farm near Church Hill in Queen Anne's County. His grave can now be found in the churchyard of St. Luke's Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092648", "title": "Visitation (Christianity)", "text": "Visitation (Christianity)\n\nIn Christianity, the Visitation is the visit of St. Mary, who was pregnant with Jesus, to St. Elizabeth, who was pregnant with John the Baptist, as recorded in the Gospel of Luke, . \n\nIt is also the name of a Christian feast day commemorating this visit, celebrated on 31 May in Western Christianity (2 July in calendars of the 1263–1969 period, and in the modern regional calendar of some countries whose bishops' conferences wanted to retain the original date, notably Germany and Slovakia) and 30 March in Eastern Christianity.\n\nThe episode is one of the standard scenes shown in cycles of the Life of the Virgin in art, and sometimes in larger cycles of the Life of Christ in art.\n\nMary visits her relative Elizabeth; they are both pregnant: Mary with Jesus, and Elizabeth with John the Baptist. Mary left Nazareth immediately after the Annunciation and went \"into the hill country ... into a city of Judah\" () to attend to her cousin () Elizabeth. There are several possibilities as to exactly which city this was, including Hebron, south of Jerusalem, and Ein Karem. The journey from Nazareth to Hebron is about in a direct line, probably up to half as far again by road, depending on the route taken. Elizabeth was in the sixth month before Mary came (). Mary stayed three months, and most scholars hold she stayed for the birth of John. Given the prevailing cultural traditions and needs for security, it is probable that Joseph accompanied Mary to Judah then returned to Nazareth, and came again after three months to take his wife home. The apparition of the angel, mentioned in Matthew 1:19–25, may have taken place then to end the tormenting doubts of Joseph regarding Mary's maternity.\n\nIn the Gospel of Luke, the author's accounts of the Annunciation and Visitation are constructed using eight points of literary parallelism to compare Mary to the Ark of the Covenant.\n\nSome Catholic commentators have maintained that the purpose of this visit was to bring divine grace to both Elizabeth and her unborn child. Even though he was still in his mother's womb, John became aware of the presence of Christ, and leapt for joy as he was cleansed from original sin and filled with divine grace. Elizabeth also responded and recognised the presence of Jesus, and thus Mary exercised her function as mediatrix between God and man for the first time.\n\nIn response to Elizabeth, Mary proclaims the \"Magnificat\" (\"My soul doth magnify the Lord\") .\n\nThe word \"blessed\" is rendered in Greek not by the word \"makarios\" but as \"evlogimeni\", which is the feminine second person singular, used only this once in the New Testament. Its masculine third person singular counterpart \"evlogimenos\" is used only for Jesus and only on this occasion and when he was welcomed into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday with: \"Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord\". The masculine/mixed gender third person plural \"evlogimenoi\" is used by Jesus only when referring to the righteous who are to be raised to life in the Last Judgement.\n\nThe theme of the Feast of the Visitation centers on Mary responding to the prompting of the Holy Spirit to set out on a mission of charity.\n\nThis feast is of medieval origin. In 1389 Pope Urban VI, hoping thereby to obtain an end to the Great Western Schism, inserted it at the urging of John of Jenstein, archbishop of Prague, in the Roman Calendar, for celebration on 2 July. In the Tridentine Calendar, it was a Double. When that Missal of Pope Pius V was replaced by that of Pope Clement VIII in 1604, the Visitation became a Double of the Second Class, or, as it would be called from 1960 by Pope John XXIII's reform, a Second-Class Feast. It continued to be assigned to 2 July, the day after the end of the octave following the feast of the birth of John the Baptist, who was still in his mother's womb at the time of the Visitation.\n\nThe 1969 revision of the calendar moved it to 31 May, \"between the Solemnity of the Annunciation of the Lord (25 March) and that of the Nativity of St. John the Baptist (24 June), so that it would harmonize better with the Gospel story.\"\n\nThe Catholic Church in Germany (together with the Lutheran church) has, with the consent of the Holy See, kept 2 July date as a national variation of the General Roman Calendar. Similarly, the Catholic Church in Slovakia has also retained the original date, because of an important national pilgrimage to the Basilica of the Visitation in the town of Levoča that has been held in the first weekend of July since the 13th century. 2 July is observed also by Traditionalist Catholics who use a pre-1970 calendar, and by Anglicans who use the 1662 \"Book of Common Prayer\" (in some Anglican traditions it is merely a commemoration rather than a feast day).\n\nIn the Roman Rite of the Catholic Church, the Visitation is the second Joyful Mystery of the Rosary.\n\nThe celebration of a feast day commemorating this event in the Eastern Orthodox Church is of relatively recent origin, dating only to the 19th century. The impetus to establish a feast day in the Liturgical calendar of the Orthodox Church, and the composition of a service to be included in the Menaion, were the work of Archimandrite Antonin Kapustin (1817–1894), head of the Russian Orthodox Ecclesiastical Mission in Jerusalem. The Gorneye Convent in Jerusalem, which was built on the traditional site of the Meeting of the Theotokos (Virgin Mary) and St. Elizabeth, celebrates this Feast on 30 March. (Julian Calendar 30 March corresponds, until 2099, to Gregorian Calendar 12 April.) If 30 March falls between Lazarus Saturday and Pascha (Easter), the Visitation Feast is transferred to Bright Friday. Celebration of the Feast of the Visitation has not yet been accepted by all Orthodox jurisdictions.\n\nIn Syriac Christianity the feast of the Visitation is celebrated on the third Sunday in the Season of Announcements prior to Christmas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092651", "title": "Rasputin the Mad Monk", "text": "Rasputin the Mad Monk\n\nRasputin, the Mad Monk is a 1966 Hammer horror film directed by Don Sharp and starring Christopher Lee as Grigori Rasputin, the Russian peasant-mystic who gained great influence with the Tsars prior to the Russian Revolution. It also features Barbara Shelley, Francis Matthews, Suzan Farmer, Richard Pasco, Dinsdale Landen and Renée Asherson. The story is largely fictionalized, although some of the events leading up to Rasputin's assassination are very loosely based on Prince Yusupov's account of the story. For legal reasons, the character of Yusupov was replaced by Ivan (Matthews). Yusupov was still alive when the film was released, dying on 27 September 1967.\n\nThe emphasis is on Rasputin's terrifying powers both to work magic and to seduce women.\n\nIn the Russian countryside, Rasputin heals the sick wife of an innkeeper (Derek Francis). When he is later hauled before an Orthodox bishop for his sexual immorality and violence, the innkeeper springs to the monk's defence. Rasputin protests that he is sexually immoral because he likes to give God \"sins worth forgiving\" (loosely based on Rasputin's rumored connection to Khlysty, an obscure Christian sect which believed that those deliberately committing fornication, then repenting bitterly, would be closer to God). He also claims to have healing powers in his hands, and is unperturbed by the bishop's accusation that his power comes from Satan.\n\nRasputin heads for Saint Petersburg, where he forces his way into the home of Dr Zargo (Pasco), from where he begins his campaign to gain influence over the Tsarina (Asherson). He manipulates one of the Tsarina's ladies-in-waiting, Sonia (Shelley), whom he uses to satisfy his voracious sexual appetite and gain access to the Tsarina. He places her in a trance and commands her to cause an apparent accident that will injure the czar's young heir Alexei, so that Rasputin can be called to court to heal him. After this success, he hypnotizes the Tsarina to replace her existing doctor with Zargo (who has previously been struck off after a scandal).\n\nHowever, Rasputin's ruthless pursuit of wealth and prestige, and increasing control over the royal household, attracts opposition. Sonia's brother, Peter (Landen), enraged by Rasputin's seduction of his sister, enlists the help of Ivan to bring about the monk's downfall. Peter, in challenging the monk, is horribly scarred by acid thrown in his face, and suffers a lingering death.\n\nTricking Rasputin into thinking his sister Vanessa (Farmer) is interested in him, Ivan arranges a supposed meeting. However, Zargo has poisoned the wine and chocolates, which the Monk starts to consume. Soon Rasputin collapses, but the poison is not enough to kill him. In the ensuing struggle between the three men, Zargo is stabbed by Rasputin and quickly dies. Ivan manages to throw Rasputin out of the window to his death.\n\n\n\"Rasputin the Mad Monk\" was filmed back-to-back in 1965 with \"\", using the same sets at Hammer's Bray Studios. Lee, Matthews, Shelley and Farmer appeared in both films. In some markets, it was released on a double feature with \"The Reptile\".\n\nIt was the third collaboration between Christopher Lee and Don Sharp.\n\nDon Sharp says the budget was cut during filming, causing the loss of several key scenes. He also claims Yusopov's lawyers threatened Hammer shortly before filming was to commence, necessitating last minute rewriting of the script.\n\n\"I think it's the best thing Chris Lee's ever done,\" said Sharp in 1992. \"Rasputin was supposed to have had this ability to hypnotise people, well Chris practically developed that ability.\"\n\nA scene of Sonia's suicide was filmed but not shown.\n\nThe original ending had the lifeless Rasputin lying on the ice with his hands held up to his forehead in benediction. However, it was considered controversial for religious reasons, and was removed. Stills of the original ending still exist.\n\nSharp says the final fight scene between Francis Matthews and Christopher Lee was greatly cut by Tony Keys when Sharp had to leave the film during editing. Sharp had greatly enjoyed his first two Hammer films but not \"Rasputin\".\n\nAs a child in the 1920s, Lee had actually met Rasputin's killer, Felix Yusupov. In later life Lee met Rasputin's daughter Maria.\n\nA novelization of the film was written by John Burke as part of his 1967 book \"The Second Hammer Horror Film Omnibus\".\n\nAccording to Fox records, the film and \"The Reptile\" needed to earn $1,200,000 in rentals to break even and made $1,645,000, meaning it made a profit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092652", "title": "Canadian Bravery Decorations", "text": "Canadian Bravery Decorations\n\nThe Canadian Bravery Decorations are a group of Canadian medals awarded for bravery. They are part of the Canadian Honour System created in 1967. The awards themselves were established in 1972. The Canadian Bravery Decorations recognize courageous acts in all situations not in the presence of an armed enemy.\n\nThey are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092654", "title": "Howard Kendall", "text": "Howard Kendall\n\nHoward Kendall (22 May 1946 – 17 October 2015) was an English footballer and manager.\n\nKendall joined Preston North End as an apprentice and stayed with the club when he turned professional. He was a runner-up in the 1964 FA Cup with Preston, and at 17 years 345 days was the youngest player to play in a Wembley final. In 1967 he joined Everton, where he played in midfield with Alan Ball and Colin Harvey, the trio gaining the nickname \"The Holy Trinity\". With Everton, Kendall won the First Division title, the Charity Shield, and was again an FA Cup runner-up. He became Everton captain for three years before being sold to Birmingham City in 1974. Kendall joined Stoke City in 1977, where he became a player-coach and helped the club achieve promotion from the Second Division.\n\nKendall's managerial career began as a player-manager with Blackburn Rovers in 1979. He returned to Everton in 1981, again as a player-manager, but retired from playing after four games. With Everton he won two Football League titles, an FA Cup, three Charity Shields, and the 1985 European Cup Winners' Cup, as well as a league runners-up place and reached two further FA Cup finals and a League Cup final. Frustrated by the ban from UEFA competitions imposed on English clubs, Kendall left to manage Spanish club Athletic Bilbao in 1987. He was sacked in 1989, but quickly returned to management with Manchester City. After less than a year in Manchester he rejoined Everton but, after three middling seasons he resigned and spent a short time managing Greek side Xanthi. After a few months spent as manager of Notts County, Kendall joined Sheffield United, saving the club from relegation and then taking them to the 1997 play-off final. He returned to Everton for third time as manager in August 1997, but left the club by mutual consent having only managed to avoid relegation on the final day of the season. His final managerial position was a four-month spell back in Greece, where he took charge of Ethnikos Piraeus and was sacked with the team at the bottom of the table. A member of the League Managers Association's \"Hall of Fame\", the English Football Hall of Fame, and listed as an \"Everton Giant\", Kendall remains the last English manager to win a UEFA competition with an English club.\n\nBorn in Ryton, County Durham, Kendall joined Preston North End as an apprentice in 1961. He turned professional in May 1963 and played in the 1964 FA Cup Final against West Ham United. At the time he was the youngest player to appear in a Wembley final, his place in the side coming due to the regular left-half Ian Davidson being suspended by the club for an unauthorised trip to Scotland. He was aged 17 years 345 days and was the youngest finalist since James Prinsep played for Clapham Rovers in the 1879 final aged 17 years 245 days.\n\nOriginally a defender, Kendall joined Everton for £85,000 in March 1967 where he was moved into midfield with Alan Ball and Colin Harvey, the trio gaining the nickname \"The Holy Trinity\". They were a major component of the Everton team that won the First Division title in the 1969–70 season. In the next three seasons, Kendall captained Everton as the side struggled to build on winning the league with a 17th-place finish in 1972–73. He was sold to Birmingham City in February 1974 and he spent four seasons at St Andrew's helping Birmingham survive in the First Division.\n\nKendall joined Stoke City in August 1977 for a fee of £40,000. Stoke under the management of George Eastham had the task of regaining their place in the top flight following relegation. However poor results in early part of the 1977–78 season saw Eastham sacked and replaced by Alan Durban in February 1978. One of the first things Durban did was appoint Kendall as player-coach and he thrived in the role and his performances earned him the club's inaugural player of the year award. Durban built the team around Kendall for the 1978–79 season as Stoke finished in third-place gaining promotion back to the First Division. However, despite Durban wanting Kendall to play for him in the First Division, Kendall decided to join Third Division Blackburn Rovers as player-manager.\n\nHe was assigned as player-manager at Blackburn Rovers for almost two years (1979–81), helping them win promotion back up to the second division in 1980 and narrowly missing out on promotion to the top tier in 1981. Kendall then returned to Everton in May 1981 to play a handful of games, again as player-manager, prior to retiring in December 1981.\n\nKendall never played for England at senior level despite being included in several squads, but won caps at Schoolboy, Youth and Under-23 level, captaining the England Youth side to victory in the 1964 Little World Cup Final.\n\nIn June 1979 Kendall was appointed player-manager of Blackburn Rovers and took the team into the Second Division in the 1979–80 season. A year later, they only missed out on promotion to the First Division on goal difference.\n\nIn May 1981 Kendall returned to Everton as player-manager, in the hope of restoring the club to its former glory, although he only played four games before finally retiring as a player. On his return to Goodison Park as manager, he made seven signings, including goalkeeper Neville Southall from Bury – who would go on to spend 17 years at the club and play a major part in five major trophy successes. Over the next two seasons, he made further signings - including winger Trevor Steven and midfielder Peter Reid. Everton finished eighth in Kendall's first season as manager and improved to seventh a year later, but began the 1983–84 season poorly, winning just six of their first 21 league games and standing on the brink of the relegation zone.\n\nKendall was reportedly on the verge of being sacked, but the second half of the season was a very different story. Helped by the £250,000 signing of Wolves striker Andy Gray in November, Everton's form improved. They reached the League Cup final (losing to Liverpool in a replay) and went on to win the FA Cup (beating Watford 2–0) at the end of the season. \nIn the 1984–85 season, Everton won the League Championship, finishing 13 points clear of runners-up Liverpool, and the European Cup-Winners' Cup, defeating Austrian side Rapid Vienna, and reached the final of the FA Cup again. Everton narrowly failed to win both the League and the FA Cup in 1985–86 – runners-up in both to Liverpool – but in 1986–87 won the League again, nine points clear of their local rivals, as the Merseyside clubs continued their stranglehold on the English game.\n\nDuring his first spell at Goodison Park, he built an almost entirely new team which proved itself as one of the finest of the whole decade. He brought in younger players such as Peter Reid and Trevor Steven from smaller clubs to give them the opportunity to prove that they could compete at the highest level, and was largely successful. He also brought in established star players such as Andy Gray, who was instrumental in a season and a half after joining them in late 1983, his goals transforming a struggling side into FA Cup winners and then league champions and European Cup Winners' Cup winners. He then sold Gray to Aston Villa and brought in Gary Lineker who scored 38 goals in the 1985–86 season, albeit narrowly failing to win the major trophies.\n\nKendall left Everton in the summer of 1987, frustrated by the ban from Europe of English clubs, to manage Athletic Bilbao in Spain. As well as the missed opportunity of more European success with Everton, the ban on English clubs in European competitions was a major factor in some of England's leading players moving overseas during this time – including Gary Lineker, who signed for Barcelona after just one season at Goodison Park.\n\nKendall's time in Bilbao was not a great success, hindered by limitations on the players he could sign for the Basque club. He did, however, manage to lead them to fourth place in La Liga in his first season, and qualification for the following season's UEFA Cup. He turned down an offer to manage Newcastle United in November 1988 in order to remain in Spain, but was sacked on 15 November 1989 after a poor run of results, and speculation began immediately about where his next job would be. There were frequent reports that he would be the next England manager when Bobby Robson eventually departed. On 7 December 1989, he returned to England as manager of Manchester City and secured their survival with a comfortable 14th-place finish. Kendall's name had also been linked to Manchester United, whose disappointing form that season was leading to media talk – as well as calls from fans – for manager Alex Ferguson to be sacked. In the event, Ferguson kept his job and went on to guide United to numerous trophies until his retirement 23 years later.\n\nWith the announcement in late May that Bobby Robson would step down as England manager after the 1990 World Cup, Kendall's name was inevitably mentioned by the press as a likely successor. However, he quickly dismissed the speculation and declined an offer by The Football Association to be interviewed for the role, which ultimately went to Graham Taylor. Kendall was suggested again as a possible choice for the England job after Taylor resigned in November 1993, but Terry Venables was appointed. When Venables announced his intention to resign in 1996, Kendall's name was once again among those in the media, but the job went to Glenn Hoddle on this occasion.\n\nHe returned to Everton for a second spell as manager on 7 November 1990 following the sacking of Colin Harvey, who was re-appointed to the club as his assistant. This was despite the fact he had built a strong Manchester City side that was near the top of the First Division table, and had only just held their cross-city rivals Manchester United to a thrilling 3–3 draw at Maine Road. He famously justified the move by saying that Manchester City was just an affair, but Everton was his marriage. By this stage Everton were battling against relegation to the Second Division, but he turned their season around and they managed to finish ninth and also reach the FA Cup quarter-finals, defeating Liverpool in the fifth round.\n\nIn August 1991, he signed 30-year-old striker Peter Beardsley from Liverpool for £1million, in what proved to be a successful transfer as the ageing striker excelled at Goodison Park, scoring 32 goals in two seasons before signing for Newcastle United. Three months later he added another new striker to the revamped Everton attack, when he paid £1.5million for Rangers striker Mo Johnston, but this signing was less successful, and the player was given a free transfer two years later after failing to attract buyers when he was put on the transfer list.\n\nEverton could only manage mid-table league finishes in 1992 and 1993, and Kendall finally resigned on 4 December 1993 after a dismal run of form in the league, and following a dispute with the board of directors, who had blocked his attempt to sign Manchester United striker Dion Dublin.\n\nAfter leaving Everton for the second time, Kendall took charge of Greek club Xanthi for a short and largely unsuccessful period. In January 1995, Kendall returned to English football, taking over at First Division Notts County who were struggling badly after a nightmare start to the season, but under Kendall's leadership there was an improvement, with County winning their first two games under his tenure. However, a series of rows with chairman Derek Pavis led to Kendall being sacked in April 1995 – their poor form continued after his departure and the team were relegated to Division Two at the end of the season. Subsequently, Kendall joined Sheffield United in December 1995, saving the club from relegation and then taking them to the 1997 play-off final, which was lost to Crystal Palace. Kendall then returned to Everton for third time as manager in August 1997, but left the club by mutual consent at the end of the season having only managed to avoid relegation on the final day of the season. His third spell was beset by turmoil within the club, working for then chairman, Peter Johnson.\n\nKendall moved to Greek side Ethnikos Piraeus, but was sacked in March 1999 after only four months in charge and with the club eight points adrift at the bottom of the Greek First Division. It was Kendall's last role in football management, although in 2001 he revealed that he had \"had offers\" from a number of English clubs which he rejected, and he expressed interest in the Republic of Ireland managers' job, which was eventually given to Giovanni Trapattoni. He remains the last English manager to win a European competition with an English club. Kendall was inducted into the English Football Hall of Fame in 2005 in recognition of his contribution as a manager to the English game.\n\nKendall died on 17 October 2015 at the Southport and Formby District General Hospital at the age of 69.\n\nSource:\n\nPreston North End\n\nEverton\n\nStoke City\n\nIndividual\n\nBlackburn Rovers\n\nEverton\n\nNotts County\n\nIndividual\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092670", "title": "Germany and weapons of mass destruction", "text": "Germany and weapons of mass destruction\n\nAlthough Germany has the technical capability to produce weapons of mass destruction, since World War II it has generally refrained from producing those weapons. However, Germany participates in the NATO nuclear weapons sharing arrangements and trains for delivering United States nuclear weapons.\n\nGermany is among the powers which possess the ability to create nuclear weapons, but has agreed not to do so under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and Two Plus Four Treaty. Along with most other industrial nations, Germany produces components that can be used for creating deadly agents, chemical weapons, and other WMD. Alongside other companies from the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, India, the United States, Belgium, Spain, and Brazil, German companies provided Iraq with precursors of chemical agents used by Iraq to engage in chemical warfare during the Iran–Iraq War.\n\nOne of the major combatants in World War I, Germany was the first to develop and use chemical weapons such as mustard gas and phosgene. These kinds of weapon were subsequently also employed by the Allies.\n\nThe use of chemical weapons in warfare during the Great War was allegedly in violation of clause IV.2 'Declaration concerning the Prohibition of the Use of Projectiles with the Sole Object to Spread Asphyxiating Poisonous Gases' of the 1899 Hague Declarations, and more explicitly in violation of the 1907 Hague Convention on Land Warfare, which explicitly forbade the use of \"poison or poisoned weapons\" in warfare.\n\nDuring World War II, Germany conducted an unsuccessful project to develop nuclear weapons. German scientists also did research on other chemical weapons during the war, including human experimentation with mustard gas. The first nerve gas, tabun, was invented by the German researcher Gerhard Schrader in 1937.\n\nDuring the war, Germany stockpiled tabun, sarin, and soman but refrained from their use on the battlefield. In total, Germany produced about 78,000 tons of chemical weapons. By 1945 the nation had produced about 12,000 tons of tabun and of sarin. Delivery systems for the nerve agents included 105 mm and 150 mm artillery shells, a 250 kg bomb and a 150 mm rocket. Even when the Soviet army neared Berlin, Adolf Hitler decided not to use tabun in a last ditch effort against the Soviets. The use of tabun was opposed by Hitler's Minister of Armaments, Albert Speer, who, in 1943, brought IG Farben's nerve agent expert Otto Ambros to report to Hitler. He informed Hitler that the Allies had stopped publication of research into organophosphates (a type of organic compound that encompasses nerve agents) at the beginning of the war, that the essential nature of nerve gases had been published as early as the turn of the century, and that he believed that Allies could not have failed to produce agents like tabun. This was not in fact the case, but Hitler accepted Ambros's deduction, and Germany's tabun arsenal remained unused.\n\nAs part of the accession negotiations of West Germany to the Western European Union at the London and Paris Conferences, the country was forbidden (by Protocol No III to the revised Treaty of Brussels of 23 October 1954) to possess nuclear, biological or chemical weapons. This was reiterated in domestic law by the War Weapons Control Act (Kriegswaffenkontrollgesetz). During the Cold War, nuclear weapons were deployed in Germany by both the United States (in West Germany) and the Soviet Union (in East Germany). Despite not being among the nuclear powers during the Cold War, Germany had a political and military interest in the balance of nuclear capability. In 1977, after the Soviet deployment of the new SS-20 IRBM, West German chancellor Helmut Schmidt expressed concern over the capability of NATO's nuclear forces compared to those of the Soviets. Later in the Cold War under the chancellorship of Helmut Kohl, the West German government expressed concern about the progress of the nuclear arms race. Particularly, they addressed the eagerness of Germany's NATO allies, the United States and United Kingdom, to seek restrictions on long-range strategic weapons while modernizing their short-range and tactical nuclear systems. Germany wanted to see such short range systems eliminated, because their major use was not deterrence but battlefield employment. Germany itself, straddling the division of the Eastern and Western blocs in Europe, was a likely battlefield in any escalation of the Cold War and battlefield use of nuclear weapons would be devastating to German territory.\n\nIn 1957 the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) was created to promote the use of nuclear energy in Europe. Under cover of the peaceful use of nuclear power, West Germany hoped to develop the basis of a nuclear weapons programme with France and Italy. The West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer told his cabinet that he \"wanted to achieve, through EURATOM, as quickly as possible, the chance of producing our own nuclear weapons\". The idea was short-lived. In 1958 Charles De Gaulle became President of France, and Germany and Italy were excluded from the weapons project. Euratom continued as the European agency for the peaceful use of nuclear technology, falling under the institutions of the European Economic Community in 1967.\nGermany ratified the Geneva Protocol on 25 April 1929, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty on 2 May 1975, the Biological Weapons Convention on 7 April 1983 and the Chemical Weapons Convention on 12 August 1994. These dates signify ratification by the Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany), during the division of Germany the NPT and the BWC were ratified separately by the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) (on 31 October 1969 and 28 November 1972, respectively).\n\nBefore German reunification in 1990, both West and East Germany ratified the Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany. Germany reaffirmed its renunciation of the manufacture, possession, and control of nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons. In addition to banning a foreign military presence in the former East Germany, the treaty also banned nuclear weapons or nuclear weapon carriers to be stationed in the area, making it a permanent Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone. The German military was allowed to possess conventional weapons systems with nonconventional capabilities, provided that they were outfitted for a purely conventional role.\n\nThe United States provides about 60 tactical B61 nuclear bombs for use by Germany under a NATO nuclear weapons sharing agreement. The bombs are stored at Büchel Air Base and in time of war would be delivered by Luftwaffe Panavia Tornado warplanes. As well as being a breach of the Protocols to the (revised) Treaty of Brussels (terminated in 2010), many countries believe this violates Articles I and II of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), where Germany has committed:\n\nThe U.S. insists its forces control the weapons and that no transfer of the nuclear bombs or control over them is intended \"unless and until a decision were made to go to war, at which the [NPT] treaty would no longer be controlling\", so there is no breach of the NPT. However German pilots and other staff practise handling and delivering the U.S. nuclear bombs. Even if the NATO argument is considered legally correct, such peacetime operations could arguably contravene both the objective and the spirit of the NPT.\n\nLike other countries of its size and wealth, Germany has the skills and resources to create its own nuclear weapons quite quickly if desired. The Zippe-type centrifuge was, indeed, invented by captured Germans working in the Soviet Union in the 1950s, and URENCO operates a centrifuge uranium enrichment plant in Germany. There are also several power reactors in Germany that could be used to produce bomb-grade plutonium if desired.\n\nIn 2007, former German defence secretary Rupert Scholz stated that Germany should strive to become a nuclear power. In September 2007 the French president Nicolas Sarkozy offered Germany to participate in the control over the French nuclear arsenal.\nChancellor Merkel and foreign minister Steinmeier declined the offer however, stating that Germany \"had no interest in possessing nuclear weapons\". Due to concerns over Vladimir Putin's actions, Merkel reversed her position, stating to the German press, \"As long as there are nuclear weapons in the world, we need to have these capabilities, as NATO says.\" \n\nNATO member states, including Germany, decided not to sign the UN treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, a binding agreement for negotiations for the total elimination of nuclear weapons, supported by more than 120 nations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092672", "title": "Don Sharp", "text": "Don Sharp\n\nDonald Herman Sharp (19 April 192114 December 2011) was an Australian-born British film director.\n\nHis best known films were made for Hammer in the 1960s, and included \"The Kiss of the Vampire\" (1962) and \"Rasputin, the Mad Monk\" (1966). In 1965 he directed \"The Face of Fu Manchu\", based on the character created by Sax Rohmer, and starring Christopher Lee. Sharp also directed the sequel \"The Brides of Fu Manchu\" (1966). In the 1980s he was also responsible for several hugely popular miniseries adapted from the novels of Barbara Taylor Bradford.\n\nSharp was born in Hobart, Tasmania, in 1921, according to official military records and his own claims, even though reference sources cite 1922 as his year of birth. He was the second of four children.\n\nHe attended St Virgil's College and began appearing regularly in theatre productions at the Playhouse Theatre in Hobart, where he trained under a young Stanley Burbury. He later said this was prompted \"by a desi re not to study to become an accountant, which is what my parents wanted for me.\"\n\nAmong the plays Sharp appeared in were \"You Can't Take It With You\" and \"Our Town\". He also directed a production of \"Stage Door\". He studied accountancy in the evenings but this was interrupted by war service.\n\nSharp enlisted in the Royal Australian Air Force on 7 April 1941 and was transferred to Singapore. In addition to his military duties he appeared in radio and on stage with a touring English company. Among his radio performances were \"Escape\" and \"the Barretts of Wimpole Street\". \"The acting bug had definitely gotten hold of me,\" says Sharp, \"and I did a bit of it while I was in the RAAF as well, in the odd moment.\"\n\nSharp was invalided out before the city fell to the Japanese. He returned to Melbourne and recuperated at Heidelberg Hospital. He spent the majority of his war service in Melbourne, appearing in amateur theatre productions of \"Quality Street\" and \"The Late Christopher Bean\" as well as recorded broadcasts and ABC plays.\n\nIn early 1943 he moved to Hobart. He appeared in a theatre production of \"Interval\" by Sumner Locke Elliott, also serving as assistant director. Following this he appeared in a theatre revue, \"Khaki Capers\", notably in a sketch which figured a flag flown over the air force station in Singapore which Sharp had brought back with him.\n\nSharp was discharged from the air force on 17 March 1944 at the rank of corporal.\n\nAfter the war Sharp did not want to return to Hobart. He auditioned for and won an understudy's position in J. C. Williamson Limited version of the Broadway comedy \"Kiss and Tell\" ; when a bout of laryngitis injured one of the leads two weeks later, Sharp stepped into the role. He toured in the production from 1944-1945 then went on to appear in such plays as \"Arsenic and Old Lace\" (1945) and \"The Dancing Years\". He worked for Morris West's production company in radio and played a small role in \"Smithy\" (1946), one of the few feature films shot in Australia at this time.\n\nSharp also toured Japan performing for the occupying troops there. From Japan he went to London in 1948. \"\"I could have gone on with a theatrical \ncareer in Australia,\" says Sharp, \"but what I really wanted was movies. So I went to England.\"\n\nArriving in England in 1948, Sharp got some stage work quickly \"but I couldn't even get an appointment to see a casting director\" for films.\n\nHe was sharing a flat with an assistant director and they decided to make their own movie. He co-wrote \"Ha'penny Breeze\" (1950), with a fellow Australian, Frank Worth. Together with another man, Darcy Conyers, they formed a production company and raised finance to make the £8,000 film. Sharp also played a leading role, did the accounts and helped with the direction. The film was not a large hit but it was theatrically released.\n\nSharp also got a small role in a British radio adaptation of \"Robbery Under Arms\" (1950).\n\nSharp said \"Shortly after, a number of influential film people made contact with me, but none of them offered me a job as an actor— they all asked if I would write for them!\"\n\nSharp was unable to cash in on \"Ha'penny Breeze\" as he came down with tuberculosis and spent two years in hospital.\n\nWhen he recovered he got some acting roles in such films as \"The Planter's Wife\" (1952), \"Appointment in London\" (1953), \"The Cruel Sea\" (1953) and \"You Know What Sailors Are\" (1954).\n\nHe also played the character Stephen \"Mitch\" Mitchell in the 1953 British science fiction radio series, \"Journey into Space\". He began to turn increasingly to writing and directing. Sharp said his background as an actor was useful for his development as a director, in particular it developed his sense of timing:\nYou’ve got to know, for example, a thing I was taught early in theatre – if there's a scene in a movie, in a play, that always gets good laughs, on a good night, when there's a good and laughing audience, you’ll get laughs in the build-up to it, in the five or ten minutes beforehand, because it's a good audience who's appreciative of what's going on. On a bad night, when the audience are not laughing, increase your pace, get them at the point. And this teaches you a control of speed and how to control an audience. . . . Working with good actors, you get a feeling of timing with them; although sometimes the timing between them can be good but their overall pace, which is quite different, can be wrong – its context in the film, because of the situation in the film, perhaps there should be that little more urgency, therefore pace, in the scene.\nHe worked on the screenplay to \"Background\" (1953). A new government-backed film company, Group Three, had a brief to support new talent and Sharp sold them an original script called \"Child's Play\" (1954). Group Three liked it and bought a story of Sharp's, originally called \"The Norfolk Story\". He turned this into a novel called \"Conflict of Wings\" (1954), the title under which it was filmed; Sharp collaborated on the screenplay with John Pudney.\n\nHe and Pudney then wrote \"The Blue Peter\" (1955) for Group Three. Sharp also directed second unit.\n\n\"Child's Play\" and \"Blue Peter\" were children's films. Sharp turned director for \"The Stolen Airliner\" (1955) for the Children's Film Foundation, based on a script by Pudney.\n\nSharp made some documentaries: \"As Old as the Windmill\" (1957), \"The Changing Life\" (1958), and \"Keeping the Peace\" (1959).\n\nAfter directing second unit on \"Carve Her Name with Pride\" (1958) and \"Harry Black\" (1958), he wrote and directed \"The Golden Disc\" (1959), the first British rock 'n' roll movie – released a year before the Cliff Richard vehicle \"Expresso Bongo\" (1959) and a full two years ahead of \"Beat Girl\" (1960). It starred Mary Steele, who Sharp married two years earlier.\n\nHe wrote and directed another film for the Children's Film Foundation, \"The Adventures of Hal 5\" (1959). He followed it with \"Linda\" (1960), a teen drama starring Carol White for Independent Artists, which went out as a support feature for \"Saturday Night and Sunday Morning\" (1960) and is now considered a lost film. Then came a low-budget thriller, also for Independent Artists, \"The Professionals\" (1960), which screened on US TV as part of the \"Kraft Mystery Theatre\".\n\nHe went into TV, doing episodes of \"Ghost Squad\" (1961–62) and \"The Human Jungle\" (1963).\n\nHe directed second unit on \"The Fast Lady\" (1962) for IA.\n\nHe directed \"Two Guys Abroad\" (1962) with George Raft, which was intended as a pilot for a TV series or as a B movie, but ended up not being released at all.\n\nSharp received an offer from Tony Hinds of Hammer Films who had seen \"The Professionals\" and was looking for a director for Hammer's vampire movie \"The Kiss of the Vampire\" (1963). Sharp had never seen a horror movie before but agreed after watching several Hammer films.\n\nAccording to his obituary Sharp helped make an \"atmospheric, suspenseful gothic horror and giving a depth to the characters that was sometimes missing in Hammer's other vampire productions.\" \"The Kiss of the Vampire\" is now one of Hammer's highest regarded horrors; Sharp's \"New York Times\" obituary says \"Not a few Hammer fans contend that \"The Kiss of the Vampire\" is one of the greatest Gothic horror movies ever made\".\n\n\"The Kiss of the Vampire\" was shot in 1962. Sharp followed it with another teen movie in the vein of \"The Golden Disc\", \"It's All Happening\" (1963), with Tommy Steele.\n\nHe returned to Hammer for a swashbuckler, \"The Devil-Ship Pirates\" (1964). It starred Christopher Lee, who would make several movies with Sharp.\n\nSharp followed it with another in the horror genre, \"Witchcraft\" (1964), for producer Robert L. Lippert. Sharp called it \"a little four-week movie, very quickly done, but it received some lovely notices\".\n\nHe contributed to the script of \"Legend of a Gunfighter\" (1964) and spent several months directing second unit on \"Those Magnificent Men in Their Flying Machines\" (1965). Sharp sayd \"I had to think very hard about going back to second unit after directing a half-dozen features— but it was so tempting, especially after my air force days. So I did it; and it was tremendously exciting, and a marvelous movie to work on.\"\n\nSharp did find shooting footage with old airplanes very slow - \"you're fortunate if you can get two set-ups in a day\" so when it was over he asked his agent to get him any job. Lippert had a sequel to \"The Fly\", \"Curse of the Fly\" (1965), and Sharp did it. \"I'm afraid they'd pretty much run out of ideas,\" said Sharp who says he and the writer \"both had the feeling, 'Oh dear, what a pity they're making another one'.\"\n\nSharp reteamed with Lee for \"The Face of Fu Manchu\" (1965), produced by Harry Alan Towers. Sharp later said \"I like Harry, a great deal... but Harry will get more kick out of making $5 in a slightly crooked and fast way, than he would making $100 legitimately; he's a dealer rather than a movie maker, and he enjoys getting the best part of a deal. But he does have a certain enthusiasm, and a \nsense of showmanship. In order to make a good film while work-ing with Harry, you have to be insistent.\"\n\n\"Fu Manchu\" was a big hit and led to four sequels; Sharp only directed the first of these, but he worked several more time for Towers who later said \"I kept using Don because his films came in on budget and were without exception very successful. On top of that he was a most agreeable person of very good character – no tantrums – clear headed – resourceful; a gentleman too.\"\n\nThe movie would give Sharp a reputation for action movies. He later stated his philosophy:\nYou can’t do big action sequences and then have flabby, everyday stuff round it. Those movies have got to have a feeling of latent energy in there. . . . You can’t do action sequences as an entity in themselves. They’ve got to be part of the way a whole movie is developing. You’ve got to have, apart from energy, a very good sense of editing, what a camera can do... a sense of timing... and an ability to have a visual of exactly what it's going to look like... Also, I enjoyed it... some directors... didn’t get the same enjoyment out of it; it was a necessity rather than a pleasure. I always liked doing it, liked doing action .\nIt was back to Hammer for \"Rasputin, the Mad Monk\" (1966), with Lee in the title role. Sharp disliked this experience working for Hammer as the budgets were being tightened.\n\nSharp followed it with a spy spoof for Towers, \"Our Man in Marrakesh\" (1966), starring Tony Randall. For Towers he also made \"The Brides of Fu Manchu\" (1966), again with Lee.\n\nSharp then made two films shot in Ireland: \"The Violent Enemy\" (1967), a thriller about the IRA from a novel by Jack Higgins, and \"Jules Verne's Rocket to the Moon\" (1967), an adventure tale in the vein of \"Magnificent Men in Their Flying Machines\" for Towers.\n\nHe returned to TV, directing some episodes of \"The Avengers\" (1968) and \"The Champions\" (1969), before writing and directing \"Taste of Excitement\" (1969), for the same producers as \"The Violent Enemy\". Sharp was offered \"The Vengeance of She\" at Hammer but been unable to take the job.\n\nSharp said he was \"out of work for about a year\" when he got an offer to direct a boat chase sequence for \"Puppet on a Chain\" (1971), based on a novel by Alistair MacLean. The producers liked his work so much they hired him to shoot some additional footage. In 2007 Sharp said the film earned him a reputation as \"The Doctor\" and he was still getting royalties from the movie.\n\nMichael Carreras of Hammer asked Sharp to take over the Seth Holt who had died while directing \"Blood from the Mummy's Tomb\" (1971) but Sharp was unable as he had a contract to make a film for the producers of \"Puppet\" in Israel. That film was not made.\n\nSharp directed a pair of horror movies – \"Dark Places\" (1973), with Lee, and \"Psychomania\" (1973), the final movie of George Sanders. The latter has become a cult classic. He called it \"great fun to do, especially after doing several films in a row like \"The Violent Enemy\". It was a great change, geared for a younger audience as it was.\"\n\n\"Callan\" (1974) was a big screen adaptation of the TV series starring Edward Woodward (1967–72). It was followed by another thriller, \"Hennessy\" (1975), with Rod Steiger in the title role, as an IRA man out to assassinate Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nIn 1975 Sharp worked on producer Harry Saltzman's abandoned pet project \"The Micronauts\", a \"shrunken man\" epic to have starred Gregory Peck and Lee Remick.\n\nCarreras offered Sharp the job of directing \"To the Devil a Daughter\" for Hammer and he was interested but Sharp ultimately pulled out due to dissatisfaction with the script.\n\nSharp directed the fourth version of \"The Four Feathers\" (1978), made for American TV but released theatrically in some markets. He then directed the remake of \"The Thirty Nine Steps\" (1978), with Robert Powell (who had been in \"Four Feathers\"). Producer Greg Smith said he hired Sharp \"because he's one of Britain's best action adventure directors and he was familiar with the period.\"\n\nHe directed (and co-wrote) \"Bear Island\" (1979), an adventure tale from the novel by Alistair MacLean starring Richard Widmark, Donald Sutherland and Vanessa Redgrave. It was one of the most expensive Canadian films ever made and a box office flop.\n\nSharp returned to TV with episodes of \"Hammer House of Horror\" (1980) (\"Guardian of the Abyss\") and \"QED\" (1982) (TV series).\n\nHe had a big ratings success with the mini series \"A Woman of Substance\" (1984), based on the novel by Barbara Taylor Bradford, with Jenny Seagrove and Deborah Kerr.\n\nAfter \"What Waits Below\" (1985) with Powell, he focused on television. \"Tusitala\" (1986) was an Australian mini series shot in Samoa. \"Hold the Dream\" (1986), was a mini-series sequel to \"Woman of Substance\", with Jenny Seagrove reprising her role. \"Tears in the Rain\" (1988) was a TV movie from a novel by Pamela Wallace which gave an early starring role to Sharon Stone. \"Act of Will\" (1989) was another mini series based on a novel by Barbara Taylor Bradford, which starred Liz Hurley.\n\nSharp married an Australian actress, Gwenda Wilson, in 1945 after appearing on stage with her in \"Kiss and Tell\". In 1956 he married actress Mary Steele.\n\nSharp died on 14 December 2011, after a short spell in hospital. He was survived by Mary Steele, two sons and a daughter. Another son, Massive Attack producer Jonny Dollar, predeceased him.\n\n\n\n\n\nSharp was announced for the following projects which were not made:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092679", "title": "Dave Wasson", "text": "Dave Wasson\n\nDavid Wasson (born September 11, 1968) is an American television producer, director, screenwriter, animator, storyboard artist, and art director. He graduated from the California Institute of the Arts with a B.F.A. He is best known for creating \"Time Squad\", developing \"Star vs. the Forces of Evil\" on which he is also a director, writer and executive producer, and directing and writing on the series \"Mickey Mouse Shorts\". He was the supervising director of \"Making Fiends\" and was the executive producer and director of the series \"The Buzz on Maggie\". Also, he is the author/illustrator of the children's book \"The Big Ideas of Buster Bickles\".\n\nWasson created the animated series \"Time Squad\" at Cartoon Network. He has co-written, storyboarded, and directed a number of the shorts for the series \"Mickey Mouse Shorts\". Wasson was the supervising director, supervising producer and a voice talent on \"Making Fiends\". He was the executive producer and director of \"The Buzz on Maggie\" at Disney. Dave also created a series of shorts at Nickelodeon for \"Oh Yeah! Cartoons\" one of which, \"Max and His Special Problem\", won him an Emmy Award in 1999 for Production Designer. Dave has also directed many animated commercials for the company Acme Filmworks located in Hollywood California.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092680", "title": "Assumption of the Virgin Mary (Rubens)", "text": "Assumption of the Virgin Mary (Rubens)\n\nThe Assumption of the Virgin Mary or Assumption of the Holy Virgin, is a painting by Peter Paul Rubens, completed in 1626 as an altarpiece for the high altar of the Cathedral of Our Lady, Antwerp, where it remains.\n\nIn Rubens' depiction of the Assumption of Mary, a choir of angels lifts her in a spiraling motion toward a burst of divine light. Around her tomb are gathered the 12 apostles — some with their arms raised in awe; others reaching to touch her discarded shroud. The women in the painting are thought to be Mary Magdalene and the Virgin Mary's two sisters. A kneeling woman holds a flower, referring to the lilies that miraculously filled the empty coffin.\n\nThe Antwerp Cathedral of Our Lady opened a competition for an Assumption altar in 1611. Rubens submitted models to the clergy on February 16, 1611. In September 1626, 15 years later, he completed the piece.\n\nThere is a smaller studio version, with some differences, in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.\n\nAnother version hangs on the right side altar of the castle church St. Peter and Paul in Kirchheim in Schwaben, Germany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092682", "title": "Edmund O'Donovan", "text": "Edmund O'Donovan\n\nEdmund O'Donovan (13 September 18445 November 1883), Irish war correspondent, was born in Dublin. In 1866 he began to contribute to \"The Irish Times\" and other Dublin papers. He was the first journalist killed in the Kurdufan area during the Sudan campaigns while reporting for \"The Daily News\".\n\nEdmund O'Donovan was the son of John O'Donovan (1809–1861), a well-known Irish archaeologist and topographer. He was educated in medicine at Trinity College in Dublin.\n\nAs teenagers, O'Donovan and most of his brothers joined the Irish Republican Brotherhood, a secret society banded together to achieve Irish freedom. He was arrested three times and detained for some months. He was subsequently an active IRB organiser in the north of England, while turning to journalism as a career. His sense of enjoyment and pranks was pronounced. He delighted in adventures and was a skilled linguist, as well as a weapons expert. O'Donovan remained on excellent terms with Irish revolutionaries to the last.\n\nHe began his newspaper career with \"The Irish Times\" in 1866. After the Battle of Sedan, fought on 1 September 1870 during the Franco–Prussian War, O'Donovan joined the Foreign Legion of the French army, and was wounded and taken prisoner by the Germans. In 1873, the Carlist rising attracted him to Spain, and he wrote many newspaper letters on the campaign.\n\nFrom 1876 O'Donovan represented the \"Daily News\" during the rising of Bosnia and Herzegovina against the Turks, and in 1879, for the same paper, made his adventurous and famously hazardous journey to Merv. On arrival at Merv, the Turcomans, suspecting him of espionage for the Russians, he was detained. The British representative Colonel Stewart expressed surprise that the journalist should be so intrepid, but O'Donovan had told him he was determined to record General Skobelev's troop movements in southern Transcaspia when overstaying at Mahomadabad for weeks. But O'Donovan was resolutely decided on watching the Turcomans stronghold of Geok-Tepe when Russian advance began. He had negotiated for safe passage when he fell ill, fearing the worst from Persian obstruction. Astutely O'Donovan refused to publish Stewart secret identity to the paper, events subsequently released in a book on The Merv Oasis. In the new year of 1881 he was released to greet the Turcomans at Geok-Tepe, who had got the idea he was there to assist them.\n\nThe Turcomans garrison was about 10,000 soldiers and 40,000 civilians. On the other side the Russian general could call on 7,000 men. The Turcomans fought fiercely to defend the city, still Skobelev had artillery pouring rockets into the garrison. The Turcomans were overwhelmed when the Russians breached the walls and swarmed into the town. The bloody slaughter ensued, later justified by Skobelev as necessary to control the enemy. Stewart disappeared from Mahomabad reporting to the British Mission in Tehran. O'Donovan had witnessed the whole grisly business from a vantage point out of harm's way high in the hills overlooking the city. Viceroy Lord Curzon later wrote I do not think that any sight could have impressed me more profoundly with the completeness of Russian conquest than the spectacle of these men, only eight years ago the bitter and determined enemies of Russia... What O'Donovan had witnessed was the end of Turcoman independence.\n\nLondon was deeply concerned that the Russians would march on Merv, which was a natural gateway to Afghanistan and Heart. St Petersburg, having dismissed General Skobelev, renounced all claim to Merv when the Tsar himself approached Lord Dufferin, the British ambassador. The consequence was to switch the city from Russian allied hands, Persia, to the Turcomans; the Cossacks continued to accompany the Turcomans to Merv for trade, where in the meantime, the story ran that O'Donovan had been installed by the local chieftains as The Supreme Ruler. When the discovered his newspapers were not bank notes, he fled for his life to Tehran, from was what he described as \"a city of hovels\".\n\nIt was only after several months' captivity that O'Donovan managed to get a message through to his principals in Persia, whence it was telegraphed to England. The adventures were described in \"The Merv Oasis\" published in 1882. The following O'Donovan still in search of venture, accompanied the ill-fated expedition of Hicks Pasha to the Egyptian Sudan; he perished along with other Europeans in the force at the Battle of El Obeid.\n\nO'Donovan is listed as one of seven journalists on a war memorial in St Paul's Cathedral in London for journalists who were killed during the Mahdist War between 1883 and 1885.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092687", "title": "Rétság", "text": "Rétság\n\nRétság is a small town in Nógrád county, in Hungary.\n\nRétság is located north of Budapest on the E77 European main road, halfway between Vác and Balassagyarmat. The town is seated at the border of Cserhát and Börzsöny hills. Its location determines the function of the town.\n\nThe settlement was property of the Losonczy family in 1393, its name was Réthy Saag. The Ottoman conquest started in the middle of the 16th century (when castle Nógrád was captured by the Ottoman army) and lasted till the middle of the 17th century. During the Ottoman conquest Rétság became near totally desolated.<br>\nBig landowners was in Rétság: Mehmed Daud 1562-1563, Ottoman from liva of Hussein pasha 1566-1567, Bosna Hassan 1583-1584, Gábor Lónyai 1656, Paul Sréter and his family 1770, widow count Mrs. Béla Benyovszky, Sándor Rosenbach, Frigyes Herzfeld in 1910.\n\nThe St. Andrew Roman Catholic church was built in 1726. The railway connection and the railway station was built in 1908. Presidential Council of Hungarian People’s Republic pronounced Rétság to be town in 1989.\n\nPusztaszántó belongs to Rétság was first mentioned in 1299 and was independent village in 1460. It was desolated during the Ottoman conquest, after it was settled again and the population was larger than in Rétság in the 19th century. Now it has only few inhabitants, but the industrial park of the town is here.\n\nSzabolcs Fényes (1912 Nagyvárad-1986 Budapest), abroad known as Peter Fényes, Hungarian operetta and musical composer and director of the Budapester Operetta Theatre in the 1940s and the 1950s lived in Rétság between 1927 and 1931 and here composed his first celebrated operetta Maya in 1931, which would be played in twelve European countries later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092692", "title": "Regressive autism", "text": "Regressive autism\n\nRegressive autism occurs when a child appears to develop typically but then starts to lose speech and social skills, typically between the ages of 15 and 30 months, and is subsequently diagnosed with autism. Other terms used to describe regression in children with autism are autism with regression, autistic regression, setback-type autism, and acquired autistic syndrome. There is no standard definition for regression, and the prevalence of regression varies depending on the definition used. Some children show a mixture of features, with some early delays and some later losses; and there is evidence of a continuous spectrum of behaviors, rather than, or in addition to, a black-and-white distinction, between autism with and without regression.\n\nApproximately 25–30% of children with autism spectrum disorders stop speaking after beginning to say words, often before the age of two. According to Ami Klin, \"Most examples of autistic regression... are based upon a child's loss of a handful of words... it's possible that these children were only echoing sounds they heard from their parents\" Some children lose social development instead of language; some lose both. \n\nAfter the regression, the child follows the standard pattern of autistic neurological development. The term regressive autism refers to the appearance that neurological development has reversed; it is actually only the affected developmental skills, rather than the neurology as a whole, that regresses. It is more usual for autistic neurological development not to include such aberrations, with age-appropriate autistic symptoms being clear from birth.\n\nSkill loss may be quite rapid, or may be slow and preceded by a lengthy period of no skill progression; the loss may be accompanied by reduced social play or increased irritability. The temporarily acquired skills typically amount to a few words of spoken language, and may include some rudimentary social perception. There are several intermediate types of development, which do not neatly fit into either the traditional early onset or the regressive categories, including mixtures of early deficits, failures to progress, subtle diminishments, and obvious losses. If regression is defined strictly to require loss of language, it is less common; if defined more broadly, to include cases where language is preserved but social interaction is diminished, it is more common.\n\nRegression in autism spectrum disorders is well documented; attribution of regression to environmental stress factors may result in a delay in diagnosis. The apparent onset of regressive autism is surprising and distressing to parents, who often initially suspect severe hearing loss. A controversy occurred following a fraudulent study linking the MMR vaccine to autism, but since then, studies have shown no connection between autism and the MMR vaccine. There are also studies being done to test if certain types of regressive autism have an autoimmune basis.\n\nThere are some who believe that regressive autism is simply early-onset autism that was recognized at a later date. Researchers have conducted studies to determine whether regressive autism is a distinct subset of autism spectrum disorders. Over the years, the results of these studies have contradicted one another. Some researchers believe there is still nothing to support a definitive biological difference between early-onset and regressive autism. However, emerging research shows that males with regressive autism have brains that are six percent larger than anyone with early-onset autism. The brains of females with regressive autism show no difference in brain size.\n\nOther disorders that involve regression include total blindness from birth, childhood disintegrative disorder, Rett syndrome, Landau-Kleffner syndrome, and childhood onset neurodegenerative diseases (e.g. Batten Disease). \"Reversible\" regression could anticipate non-pure Tourette syndrome.\n"}
{"id": "2092693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092693", "title": "Antoine Doinel", "text": "Antoine Doinel\n\nAntoine Doinel () is a fictional character created by French film director François Truffaut. Doinel is to a great extent an alter ego for Truffaut, sharing many of the same childhood experiences, looking somewhat alike and even being mistaken for one another on the street. Although Truffaut did not initially plan for Doinel to be a recurring character, he eventually returned to the character in one short-subject and three full-length films after introducing him in his debut feature, \"The 400 Blows\" (1959). In all, Truffaut followed the fictional life of Antoine Doinel (Jean-Pierre Léaud) for over 20 years, shows him in romance with Christine (Claude Jade) in \"Stolen Kisses\", then the marriage of Antoine and Christine (\"Bed and Board\") and the divorce of the couple Antoine and Christine in \"Love on the Run\".\n\nDoinel was played in all five movies by Jean-Pierre Léaud. Doinel's lover and later wife, Christine Darbon, was acted by Claude Jade in three films \"Stolen Kisses\", \"Bed and Board\" and \"Love on the Run\". The director's love to Claude Jade shines through his alter-ego Doinel. \n\nHis unrequited love interest Colette Tazzi (Marie-France Pisier) appears in the short film, in a brief uncredited cameo in \"Stolen Kisses\" and in the last film. Patrick Auffay appears as Antoine's friend René in the first two films. François Darbon appears as Colette's father in the second and as a military adjudant in the third film. Daniel Ceccaldi and Claire Duhamel as Christine's parents in \"Stolen Kisses\" and \"Domicile conjugal\". A lover of Antoine's mother, M. Lucien, has been played by Jean Douchet in the first and by Julien Bertheau in the last movie. A writer friend of Antoine, played by Jacques Robiolles appears in \"Stolen Kisses\" and \"Bed and Board\". The son of Antoine and Christine, Alphonse, is played in \"Bed and Board\" by four girls and in \"Love on the Run\" by Julien Dubois. In the 2005 radio play \"Alphonse's Journal\" (Le journal d'Alphonse) in which only Christine (Claude Jade) and Alphonse reappearing, Alphonse is spoken by Stanislas Merhar. \n\nNumerous other characters re-appear through flashbacks utilizing footage from earlier films in \"Love on the Run\".\n\nThe set of five films has been named \"The Adventures of Antoine Doinel.\" The set is made up of the following:\n\nTruffaut's debut was the film \"The 400 Blows\". The 1959 film introduces us to the 14-year-old Doinel, a troubled Parisian boy who skips school, eventually turning to street life and petty crime in response to neglect at home by his parents. Towards the end of the film, he is sent to a reform school, from which he escapes for places unknown.\n\nThe next appearance of Doinel was in the film short \"Antoine and Colette\", which was part of the 1962 omnibus film \"L'amour à vingt ans\". Doinel is now age 17 and becomes obsessed with Colette, a music student, but she only wants to be friends.\n\nIn the third installment, \"Stolen Kisses\" (1968), a more mature Doinel attempts to return to civilian life after a dishonourable discharge from the military. His romantic forays are rocky with Christine (Claude Jade), and then his boss's wife (Delphine Seyrig as Fabienne Tabard).\n\nIn 1970, Doinel and Christine have married in \"Bed and Board\", but Doinel suddenly becomes obsessed with a young Japanese woman (Hiroko Berghauer).\n\nDoinel's adventures come to a close in 1979's \"Love on the Run\", where his romantic attentions pass from his ex-wife Christine to disc-seller Sabine Barnerias (Dorothée).\n\nIn \"Antoine and Colette\" and \"Love on the Run\", flashbacks to Doinel's earlier life consist of footage from the previous films.\n\nChristine Darbon, portrayed by actress Claude Jade, first appears in the life of Antoine in \"Stolen Kisses\". Subsequently she appeared in two more films, \"Bed and Board\" (now Christine Doinel) and \"Love on the Run\", where, after divorcing Doinel, she again becomes Christine Darbon. Truffaut uses the occasion to examine three states, three ages, of the woman: loved from a distance (\"Stolen Kisses\"), married and misled (\"Bed and Board\"), divorced but still on good terms (\"Love on the Run\"). Christine is characterized by her good behaviour, the promptness of her glance, a sense of sacrifice which is by no means \"tragic\". In the film \"Love on the Run\", Antoine and Christine were the first couple in the country to divorce under a new law allowing dissolution of a marriage by mutual consent.\n\nIn a case of life imitating art, Christine can be seen as part of Truffaut's autobiography. While Antoine is seeking to seduce Christine in \"Stolen Kisses\", in real life Truffaut fell in love with the actress who portrayed Christine, Claude Jade, becoming engaged to her. The two however did not wed. The character of Christine Darbon left an important and indelible mark on Truffaut's work: She is a character who never really reveals her emotions, whose sad smile is her only weapon to fight Antoine's cruelty, and whose soft glance barely manages to hide an inner wound.\n\nThe entire \"Adventures of Antoine Doinel\" has been made available as part of The Criterion Collection.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092696", "title": "Antonio Palomino", "text": "Antonio Palomino\n\nAcislo Antonio Palomino de Castro y Velasco (165513 April 1726) was a Spanish painter of the Baroque period, and a writer on art, author of \"El Museo pictórico y escala óptica\", which contains a large amount of important biographical material on Spanish artists.\n\nAntonio Palomino was born to a respectable family at Bujalance, near Córdoba in 1655. He studied philosophy, theology and law at Córdoba, and had lessons in painting from Juan de Valdés Leal, who visited there in 1672, and afterwards from Juan de Alfaro y Gamez in 1675.\n\nAfter taking minor orders Palomino moved to Madrid in 1678, where he associated with Alfaro, Claudio Coello, and Juan Carreño de Miranda, and executed some indifferent frescoes. He soon afterwards married a lady of rank, and, having been appointed \"alcalde\" of the \"mesta\", was himself ennobled; in 1688 he was appointed painter to King Charles II. The artist visited Valencia in 1697, and remained there for three or four years, again devoting himself to fresco painting, including the ceilings of the church of the Santos Juanes. Between 1705 and 1715 he spent considerable amounts of time in Salamanca, Granada and Córdoba; in the latter year the first volume of his work on art, \"El Museo pictórico y escala óptica\", appeared in Madrid. He painted the ceiling fresco in the dome of the sacristy of the Cartuja de Granada. After the death of his wife in 1725 Palomino took priest's orders. He died on 13 August 1726.\n\nPalomino's \"El Museo pictórico y escala óptica\" first appeared in 1715–24 in a three-volume folio edition. The first two parts, on the theory and practice of the art of painting, have had little influence. The third, subtitled \"El Parnaso español pintoresco laureado\", contains a large amount of important biographical material relating to Spanish artists, which, despite its uneven style, has led to the author being called \"the Spanish Vasari\" . It was partially translated into English in 1739 as \"An account of the lives and works of the most eminent Spanish painters, sculptors and architects\"; an abridgment of the original (\"Las Vidas de los pintores y estatuarios españoles\") was published in London in 1742, and appeared in a French translation in 1749. A German version was published at Dresden in 1781, and a reprint of the entire work at Madrid in 1797. A modern English translation of the abridgment by Nina Ayala Mallory came out in 1987 from Cambridge University Press ().\n\n"}
{"id": "2092699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092699", "title": "Bernard Robinson", "text": "Bernard Robinson\n\nBernard Robinson may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2092704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092704", "title": "Drago", "text": "Drago\n\nDrago may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092707", "title": "Stapleford Aerodrome", "text": "Stapleford Aerodrome\n\nStapleford Aerodrome is an operational general aviation aerodrome in the Epping Forest district of Essex, England, near the village of Abridge. It is about south of North Weald Airfield and north of Romford. The airfield is just within the M25, close to the junction with the M11.\n\nStapleford Aerodrome has a CAA Ordinary Licence (Number P472) that allows flights for the public transport of passengers or for flying instruction as authorised by the licensee (Herts & Essex Aero Club Limited).\n\nStapleford opened as Essex Aerodrome in 1933 as a base for Hillman's Airways, which provided a service to Paris and other European cities using De Havilland DH.84 Dragon and DH.89 Dragon Rapide biplanes. Amy Johnson was one of the Hillman Airways pilots. After running into financial difficulties, Hillman was bought up by Whitehall Security Corporation Ltd and merged with three other airlines that they already owned to form British Airways Ltd. Operations began in 1936, but after 4 months all flights were moved to Heston Aerodrome, leaving just a small number of private aircraft.\n\nThe RAF took an interest in the airfield in 1937, and in 1938 No 21 Elementary and Reserve Flying Training school was established at Stapleford. Training was provided by Reid and Sigrist Ltd, under contract to the Air Ministry. One of the most famous students was J.E. \"Johnnie\" Johnson who became the RAF's top scoring pilot and reached the rank of Air Vice Marshal.\n\nThe airfield was requisitioned shortly after the start of the Second World War as RAF Stapleford Tawney. A long perimeter track and dispersal points were built and some accommodation buildings were erected. By the end of March 1940 the airfield was ready to become a satellite station for North Weald.\n\nThe first squadron to make regular use of Stapleford was No. 151 Squadron, making patrols from the base from August 1940. Six aircraft were lost and two pilots, including squadron leader Eric King, killed in action on 30 August. After a short stay, the squadron was moved to RAF Digby, Lincolnshire, but one aircraft struck a crane after take off and burst into flames. The pilot, Pilot Officer Richard Ambrose, was killed; he is buried in Epping cemetery.\n\nNo. 46 Squadron arrived in September, having lost all their Hurricane fighters when the aircraft carrier was sunk while evacuating the squadron from Norway.\n\nOther units to use Stapleford included the secret No. 419 Flight, formed in August 1940 as the operational air-arm of the Special Operations Executive (SOE). They were intended to use Armstrong Whitworth Whitleys to drop agents and supplies behind enemy lines. Westland Lysanders would be used to pick up agents as well as other important people. Because of heavy Luftwaffe attacks on North Weald, the flight moved to Stapleford on 4 September. The Whitley was a rather large aircraft to use Stapleford's grass runways. Only two operations were carried out from Stapleford; one to Brest and the other to Fontainebleau. The flight then moved to RAF Stradishall, Suffolk, on 9 October.\n\nOther squadrons at Stapleford were No. 242 Squadron and the RAF's oldest, No. 3 Squadron and, in 1941, a new Air Sea Rescue squadron was formed at Stapleford - No. 277 Squadron.\n\nIn March 1943, Stapleford was taken out of Fighter Command and placed under the command of No. 34 Wing of the Army Co-operation Command.\n\nStapleford played an important part in the preparations for D-Day and many units arrived.\nOn 20 November 1944 a V-2 rocket landed in the middle of the airfield leaving a crater 60 feet in diameter. On 23 January 1945 another rocket landed on the airfield camp site killing 17 personnel and injuring 50. A number of the personnel are buried in the church cemetery at North Weald.\n\nStapleford's wartime role ended in 1945, with the last personnel leaving before VE Day.\n\nA memorial at the airfield recalls those who lost their lives.\n\nIn 1946, Stapleford Aerodrome was taken over by the Royal Engineers. 869 Mechanical Equipment Squadron RE was the only plant unit in the UK and held a large inventory of bulldozers, scrapers, road rollers, cranes, excavators, draglines and all the plant items that the army had acquired - most of it worn out. The newest of the equipment was used throughout the UK in clearing minefields (armoured bulldozers) and constructing shooting ranges etc. The unit name was changed to Number 1 Plant Park Squadron RE and moved to Bordon, Hampshire, in September 1948.\n\nIn 1953 Roger Frogley and his brother Buster transferred the Herts and Essex Aero club from Broxbourne in Hertfordshire to Stapleford. The hangars were renovated and they began flying Tiger Moths and Austers.\n\nIn 1955 Edgar Percival, the famous pre-war aircraft designer, set up a company at Stapleford under his name and started a production line for his EP9 crop-spraying aircraft. A total of 40 aircraft were built.\n\nThe airfield is home to the privately owned Stapleford Flight Centre. For around 40 years it has trained pilots for PPL up to CPL and ATPL qualifications. It has a fleet of over 40 aircraft. Other companies on the site provide business charter services, London sightseeing flights and aircraft engineering services.\n\nThe airfield has two parallel runways 03/21, one being partly asphalt at one end, and a shorter grass runway 10/28.\n\nLambourne VOR is located at the south of the airfield.\n\nOn 3 October 2015 a Beechcraft King Air 200 G-BYCP operated by London Executive Aviation crashed shortly after departure killing both pilots on board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092709", "title": "Saskia Rao-de Haas", "text": "Saskia Rao-de Haas\n\nSaskia Rao-de Haas (born 1971) is a virtuoso cellist and composer from the Netherlands based in New Delhi, India. She is married to the sitarist Shubhendra Rao.\n\nSaskia was born in Abcoude, the Netherlands in a family of music lovers. Saskia studied cello under the Hungarian cellist Tibor de Machula and went on to do a Masters in Ethnomusicology from the University of Amsterdam and the Conservatory of Rotterdam where she studied under Hari Prasad Chaurasia and Koustuv Ray.\n\nShe first came to India in 1994 where she studied Indian music under Dr. Sumati Mutatkar at the Delhi University. Subsequently, she has also been tutored by Pandit D.K. Datar, Pandit Deepak Chowdhury and Pandit Shubhendra Rao.\n\nSaskia Rao de Haas has performed at a number of traditional festivals, such as the Dover Lane Conference in Kolkata and the Harvallabh Sangeet Samelan in Jalandhar. She has also performed at the ‘Vasanta Habbha’ in Bangalore, the ‘Maihar’ festival and the ‘Haridas Sangeet Sammelan’ in Lucknow. She has also performed at numerous international venues including the Kennedy Centre at Washington, D.C. and the Esplanande in Singapore. More recently in 2013 she also performed at various universities of UK including Oxford through the UK chapter of SPICMACAY. They are also scheduled to play at the Opening Ceremony of the Commonwealth Games at Glasgow in 2014.\n\nSaskia is acclaimed for bridging the Western and Indian classical music traditions. She is an accomplished Western classical cellist, plays folk music from Eastern Europe and has composed music for dance, film and theatre.\nRao-de Haas composed music for the dance group Raga Mala and created an Indian string quartet in her piece 'Mukhani'. She developed, together with Shubhendra, a collection of pieces for sitar and cello with percussion under the collective name 'East marries West'.\n\nSaskia's contribution to Hindustani classical music through the Indian cello, an instrument fashioned out of the cello to enable it to be played in Indian classical concerts. The Indian Cello was fashioned by the violin maker Eduard van Tongeren with five playing strings and ten sympathetic strings. It is smaller in size than its western counterpart, thus enabling Saskia to sit on the floor while playing it. The addition of an extra playing string on a higher octave and the ten sympathetic strings further enriches the tonal quality of the Indian cello.\n\nOn August 13, 2014 the project \"Music: Every child's birthright\" was launched by the Shubhendra and Saskia Rao Foundation. The project includes a music education curriculum from nursery school up to high school level.\n\nSaskia married sitarist Shubhendra Rao in 2001. They have a son, Ishaan and live in the C R Park locality of New Delhi.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092712", "title": "Giza Plateau", "text": "Giza Plateau\n\nThe Giza Plateau () is a plateau in Giza, on the outskirts of Cairo, Egypt, site of the Fourth Dynasty Giza Necropolis, which includes the Great Pyramids of Khufu, Khafre and Menkaure, the Sphinx, several cemeteries, a workers' village and an industrial complex. \n\nThe plateau is elevated approximately 60 meters above sea-level.\n\nModern Giza is accessed by two main roads. The road from the north leads to Khufu's pyramid; the other to near the Sphinx's front court, from the east. They cross the Nile River from the east bank and follow the causeway westward. Dominating the plateau and running in a southwest diagonal through the site are the three pyramids of the pharaohs Khufu, Khafra, and Menkaure.\n\nThe Giza Plateau Mapping Project (GPMP) was undertaken in 1984, \"an effort to better understand the social and economic forces that supported pyramid construction.\"\n\nMark Lehner and his team produced an accurate map of the natural and cultural features of the entire Giza Plateau. Survey data suggested to Lehner possible locations for the city of the pyramid builders, so in 1988 the mission of the GPMP was extended to excavate and survey those areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092716", "title": "Bishnoi", "text": "Bishnoi\n\nBishnoi (also known as Vishnoi) is a Hindu religious sect found in the Western Thar Desert and northern states of India. They follow a set of 29 principles/commandments given by Guru Jambeshwar (1451-1536). They are not a caste but a sect. As of 2019, there are an estimated 960,000 followers of Vishnoi sect residing in north and central India. Shree Guru Jambeshwar founded the sect at Samrathal Dhora in 1485 and his teachings, comprising 120 shabads,are known as \"Shabadwani\". He preached for the next 51 years, travelling across India. With Nepal The preaching of Guru Jambhoji inspires his followers as well as the environmental protectors.\n\nGuru Jambeshwar gave his followers 29 precepts, bis means 20 in the local dialect and noi means nine in the local dialect, which became the \"Bis+Noi\" name for the sect. In local dialect, it is often said, “\"Untees dharma ki akhadi, hirday dhario joye, Jambheji kirpa kari, naam bishnoi hoye\"” which means those who will follow these twenty-nine principles by heart, Guru Jambhoji will bless them and they will be a Bishnoi (Vishnoi).\n\nBishnoi sect was founded by Shree Guru Jambeshwar (1451-1536), also known as Jambhoji. Some people have used the term \"Vishnoi\", meaning \"followers of Vishan, the all mighty god, while some\" refer to themselves as \"Bishnoi\". Shree Guru Jambeshwar himself did not refer to \"Bishnoi\" but does mention Vishan. Adherents are also known as \"Prahladapanthi\" because of their devotion to Prahlada, another Hindu deity.\n\nShree Guru Jambeshwar announced a set of 29 tenets. These were contained in a document called \"Shabadwani\", written in the Nagri script, which consists of 120 shabads. Of his 29 tenets, ten are directed towards personal hygiene and maintaining good basic health, seven for healthy social behaviour, and four tenets to the worship of God. Eight tenets have been prescribed to preserve bio-diversity - although most adherents are unaware of that, or such things as global warming, as a concept - and encourage good animal husbandry. These include a ban on killing animals and felling green trees, and providing protection to all life forms. The community is also directed to see that the firewood they use is devoid of small insects. Wearing blue clothes is prohibited because the dye for colouring them is obtained by cutting a large quantity of shrubs.\n\nPrime Minister Shri Narendra Modi gave the credit of Champion of Earth Award 2018 to Vishnoi Samaj. And also called the tradition of Bishnoiyo sacrificing for the environment a unique event in world history.\n\nThe Bishnoi have various temples, of which they consider the most holy to be that in the village of Mukam in Nokha tehsil, Bikaner district, Rajasthan. It is there where the Major Vishnoi Temple is.\n\nThe Bishnoi narrate the story of Amrita Devi, a member of the sect who inspired as many as 363 other Bishnois to go to their deaths in protest of the cutting down of Khejri trees in September 1730. The Maharaja of Jodhpur, Abhay Singh, requiring wood for the construction of a new palace, sent soldiers to cut trees in the village of Khejarli, which was called Jehnad at that time. Noticing their actions, Amrita Devi hugged a tree in an attempt to stop them. Her family then adopted the same strategy, as did other local people when the news spread. She told the soldiers that she considered their actions to be an insult to her faith and that she was prepared to die to save the trees. The soldiers did indeed kill her and others until Abhay Singh was informed of what was going on and intervened to stop the massacre.\n\nSome of the 363 Bishnois, who were killed protecting the trees, were buried in Khejarli, where a simple grave with four pillars was erected. Every year, in September, i.e., \"Shukla Dashmi\" of \"Bhadrapad\" (Hindi month) the Bishnois assemble there to commemorate the sacrifice made by their people to preserve their faith and religion.\n\nThe 29 tenets of Bishnoism state:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092730", "title": "Roy Ward Baker", "text": "Roy Ward Baker\n\nRoy Ward Baker (19 December 1916 – 5 October 2010), born Roy Horace Baker, was an English film director, credited as Roy Baker for much of his career. His best known film is \"A Night to Remember\" (1958) which won a Golden Globe for Best English-Language Foreign Film in 1959. His later career included many horror films and television shows.\n\nBorn in London where his father was a Billingsgate fish merchant, Baker was educated at a Lycée in Rouen, France, and at the City of London School. From 1934 to 1939, he worked for Gainsborough Pictures, a British film production company based in the Islington district of London. His first jobs were menial, making tea for crew members, for example, but by 1938 he had risen to the level of assistant director on Alfred Hitchcock's \"The Lady Vanishes\" (1938).\n\nHe served in the Army during the Second World War, transferring to the Army Kinematograph Unit in 1943 to make better use of his skills as a production manager and director on documentaries. One of his superiors at the time was novelist Eric Ambler, who insisted on Baker being given his first big break directing \"The October Man\", from an Ambler screenplay, in 1947. Ambler also adapted Walter Lord's \"A Night to Remember\" for Baker's 1958 screen version. His next two films, \"The Weaker Sex\" (1948) and \"Paper Orchid\" (1949) were popular but overshadowed by the success of \"Morning Departure\" (1950), also featuring John Mills.\n\n\"Morning Departure\" drew international attention to Baker's talent and prompted Darryl Zanuck, production head of 20th Century Fox, to invite him to Hollywood, though his first film for the company - \"I'll Never Forget You\" - was made in the UK. During the early 1950s, Baker worked for three years at Fox where he directed Marilyn Monroe in \"Don't Bother to Knock\" (1952) and Robert Ryan in the 3-D film noir \"Inferno\" (1953). He returned to the UK in 1953 and continued to work on films.\n\nHe worked for television during the 1960s and early 1970s. He directed episodes of \"The Avengers\", \"The Saint\", \"The Persuaders!\", \"The Champions\", \"Randall and Hopkirk (Deceased)\" - all of them adventure series created with an eye on the American market. His experience of working with low budgets in television made him well suited to his next career move into cheaply produced but lavish-looking British horror films. He directed, among others, \"Quatermass and the Pit\" (1967) \"The Vampire Lovers\" (1970) and \"Scars of Dracula\" (1970) for Hammer, and \"Asylum\" (1972) and \"The Vault of Horror\" (1973) for Amicus. He also directed Bette Davis in the black comedy \"The Anniversary\" (1968), and co-directed (with renowned Hong Kong director Chang Cheh) the Hammer-Shaw Brothers Studio collaboration \"The Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires\".\n\nIn the latter part of the 1970s he returned to television, and throughout the 1980s continued to work on shows such as \"Minder\". He retired in 1992.\n\nIn 2000 Baker published his memoirs, \"Director's Cut: A Memoir of 60 Years in Film\", and in 2002 sold his production files and letters at auction.\n\nHe contributed interviews to several DVD extras, such as the extras included with \"The Saint\" and \"Randall & Hopkirk - Deceased\" and took part in the 2007 BBC 2 documentary series \"British Film Forever\", and in Mark Gatiss's October 2010 BBC 4 series, \"A History of Horror\", in which he gave his final recorded interview.\n\nRoy Ward Baker died on 5 October 2010 aged 93.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092736", "title": "Guru Jambeshwar", "text": "Guru Jambeshwar\n\nGuru Jambeshwar, also known as Guru Jambhoji, (1451-1536) was the founder of the Vishnoi sect. He was incarnation of Vishan, the all mighty god. He taught that God is a divine power that is everywhere. He also taught to protect plants and animals as they are important in order to peacefully co-exist with nature.He also opposed Idolatry and said that god is everywhere.\nJambeshwar was born in a Farmer family of the Panwar clan in the village of Pipasar, Nagaur district in 1451. He was the only child of Lohat Panwar and Hansa Devi. For the first seven years of his life, Guru Jambeshwar was considered silent and introverted. He spent 27 years of his life as a cow herder.\n\nAged 34, Guru Jambeshwar founded the Vishnoi sect. His teachings were in the poetic form known as Shabadwani. He preached for the next 51 years, travelling across the country, and produced 120 Shabads, or verses, of Shabadwani. The sect was founded after wars between Muslim invaders and local Hindus. He had laid down 29 principles to be followed by the sect. Killing animals and felling trees were banned. The Khejri tree (\"Prosopis cineraria\"), is also considered to be sacred by the Vishnois.\n\nVishnoism revolves around 29 rules. Of these, eight prescribe to preserve biodiversity and encourage good animal husbandry, seven provide directions for healthy social behaviour, and ten are directed towards personal hygiene and maintaining basic good health. The other four commandments provide guidelines for worshipping God daily.\nyou must read the book which is written by *\n\nGuru Jambeshwar University of Science and Technology at Hisar in Haryana is named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092737", "title": "Richard Napier", "text": "Richard Napier\n\nRichard Napier (1559 – 1 April 1634) was a prominent English astrologer and medical practitioner.\n\nAlso known as Dr Richard Sandy, he was the brother of Sir Robert Napier of Luton Hoo, Bedfordshire. He was a pupil of Simon Forman and inherited his manuscripts, including a copy of the Picatrix (now in the British Library). He became rector of Great Linford, Buckinghamshire in 1589.\n\nNapier was appointed a curate to preach in his place while he practised astrology, which was intertwined with his devout Anglicanism and interest in medicine. He claimed to speak with the archangel Raphael frequently, and occasionally with the archangel Michael. His clients included Emanuel Scrope, 1st Earl of Sunderland as well as the Earl of Bolingbroke and Lord Wentworth, who reputedly protected him from the actions of magistrates.\n\nHis sister, Mary Napier married Sir Thomas Myddelton of Chirk Castle, the son of Sir Thomas Myddelton, Lord Mayor of London who was also one of his patients. It was said of him that he was so devout that his knees grew horny by much praying, and he reputedly died in that posture on 1 April 1634 and was buried on 15 April. His many papers came into the hands of Elias Ashmole and are now in the Bodleian Library, Oxford. His records have been digitised by a team led by Professor Lauren Kassell of the University of Cambridge.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092739", "title": "Olga Mihaylovna Bebutova", "text": "Olga Mihaylovna Bebutova\n\nOlga Mihaylovna Bebutova (), maiden name Danilova (1 November 1879 — 26 March 1952), was a Russian Empire actress and writer.\n\nHer popularity was helped by her beauty (she was the winner of a Russian beauty contest in 1906). Her first husband was Prince Bebutov, her second Count Sollogub (she was called the \"countess-actress\"). She acted in Saint Petersburg theaters. She edited the paper \"Theater and Sport\" under the name Countess Sollogub, published novels under the name Princess Bebutova, and published theater chronicles under the name Gurielli. She was famous for being the source of scandals and mystifications. She left Russia after the October Revolution and settled in France, publishing her work in Riga, Latvia. She died in poverty.\n\nShe had a daughter, Tamara Nikolaevna Bebutova.\n\nSome of her novels were \"Dekabristy\" (The Decembrists, 1906), \"Zhizn'-kopeika\" (Life isn't worth a kopeck, 1916), \"Novaya sila\" (New strength, 1926), \"Serdtse tsarevicha\" (The tsarevich's heart, 1928), and \"Bor'ba dvukh mirov\" (The struggle of two worlds, 1931).\n\n"}
{"id": "2092742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092742", "title": "WZFT", "text": "WZFT\n\nWZFT (104.3 FM), known on-air as \"Z104.3\", is a Top 40 (CHR) radio station located in Baltimore, Maryland. It is currently owned and operated by iHeartMedia. Its studios are located at The Rotunda shopping center in Baltimore, and the transmitter is based atop Television Hill in the city's Woodberry district.\n\n104.3 signed on in 1949 as WITH-FM, the FM sister to WITH-AM 1230 (now WRBS). WITH-FM was Maryland's pioneer FM station, with local legend Jack Wells serving as its first announcer.\n\nIn the 1970s, WITH-FM became Top 40 WDJQ-FM \"DJ-104\". By the late 70s, DJ-104 made an attempt to do an all-Disco format, which failed in the ratings and the station went back to Top 40 at the end of 1979.\n\nIn June 1980, Scripps-Howard Broadcasting acquired WDJQ-FM, and at Noon on July 2nd, 104.3 became WBSB under the handle \"B-104\", but retaining the previous Top 40 format. B-104 was one of Baltimore's top-rated FM stations during the 80s and was home to \"Brian and O'Brien\" one of Baltimore's most notable morning drive time shows.\n\nRadio & TV personalities Glenn Beck and Pat Gray hosted a show on B-104 for several years in the late 1980s and early 1990s.\n\nOther notable air personalities were: Ken Merson (The Merson Person), Willie B., Gary Murphy, Sean Hall, Tom Gilligan, Kris Earl Phillips, Ann Duran, J.R. Russ, Lisa Kay, “Downtown” Billy Brown and Brian Carter.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Top 40 radio suffered a decline in audience and revenue due to the rise of alternative rock and hip hop. Many stations around the country flipped to other formats; WBSB was one of those. On February 18, 1992, at 9 a.m., after playing a montage of station memories, the station flipped to \"Variety 104.3\", a Hot AC competitor to WWMX, which was a mainstream AC at the time. The first song on \"Variety\" was \"Listen to the Music\" by The Doobie Brothers. In January 1993, the station changed its call letters to WVRT. The station suffered from low ratings during this time. Ironically, Capitol Broadcasting, the owners of WWMX, bought the station from E. W. Scripps in the Fall of 1993. On December 13, the station began stunting with a simulcast of WWMX. At Midnight on December 20, the stunting switched to a one song per day loop, as well as liners redirecting listeners to WWMX. Finally, on January 12, 1994, at 6 p.m., the station flipped to \"Soft 104.3\" WSSF, a soft AC competing with well-established WLIF. Capitol sold the station to American Radio Systems in 1994.\n\nAfter just 9 months of \"Soft\", on October 14, 1994, at 3 p.m., the station flipped to '70s-based classic hits as \"104.3 The Colt\", using the call letters WOCT. The first song on \"The Colt\" was Bachman–Turner Overdrive's \"You Ain't Seen Nothing Yet\". The station later evolved into a classic rock format. In 1998, American Radio Systems merged with CBS Radio/Infinity Broadcasting. The company was forced to sell 1 station due to being over the ownership limitations of 5 FM stations in a market. As a result, WOCT was sold to Jacor Communications, which would merge with the station's current owner iHeartMedia (then known as Clear Channel Communications) a year later. Following the sale, the station changed its format again, this time to a harder classic rock format as \"104.3-OCT.\"\n\nIn 2001, the station returned to mainstream classic rock as \"Baltimore 104.3\", and then a year later briefly brought back the heritage \"B-104\" name as WXFB (\"B-104.3\").\n\nOn September 5, 2003, at 10 a.m., the station flipped to Smooth Jazz as WSMJ. During WSMJ's (near) five-year run, it was nominated by the Radio & Records Industry for \"Smooth Jazz Station of the Year\" in 2005, as well as, one nomination and one win for \"Program Director of the Year\" in 2005 and 2007.\n\nOn May 23, 2008, at 9 a.m., after playing \"Neither One of Us (Wants to Be the First to Say Goodbye)\" by Gladys Knight & the Pips, the station began stunting with Christmas music. At Noon the same day, the station launched into a 1990s-intensive modern rock format similar to other Clear Channel modern rockers in Grand Rapids, MI, Philadelphia, and Hartford, CT as \"Channel 104.3\". The first song on \"Channel\" was \"No Way Back\" by The Foo Fighters. On May 29, 2008, the station changed its call letters to WCHH. The WCHH call letters were last used in 2003 by an Urban Contemporary station in Charlotte, North Carolina.\n\nIn January 2009, the transmitter was moved from northeast of the city to Television Hill near downtown, with hopes of improving signal coverage in the Howard and Anne Arundel County suburbs.\n\nAt 10 a.m. on November 4, 2009, after playing \"No Way Back\" by The Foo Fighters (which was also the first song played on \"Channel\"), the station briefly stunted again, this time with R&B music as \"Charm 104.3\", before officially flipping to Top 40 at Noon as \"Z104.3\". The first song played on \"Z\" was \"3\" by Britney Spears. The station changed calls to WZFT on November 20, 2009. The debut of \"Z104.3\" marked the first time that Baltimore had a Top 40 station since 2001, when WXYV flipped to mainstream urban, and also brought the CHR format back to 104.3 after a 17 year absence. Hot AC-formatted WWMX-FM, a former sister station now owned by Entercom, had been leaning towards a Mainstream Top 40 direction beginning the preceding year to try and fill that void. On July 1, 2014, WZFT updated its logo, mirroring a logo similar to sister station WHTZ in New York.\n\nOn June 26, 2019, WZFT-HD2 flipped to iHeart's \"Pride Radio\" format of Top 40/Dance music targeting the LGBTQ community. Previously, the HD2 subchannel carried hip-hop music as \"The Beat\", urban AC music from iHeart's \"All My Jams\" channel, and alternative rock as \"Alt 104.3\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2092745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092745", "title": "Hamamatsu Photonics", "text": "Hamamatsu Photonics\n\nThe company was founded in 1953 by Heihachiro Horiuchi, a former student of Kenjiro Takayanagi, who is known as \"the father of Japanese television\".\n\nHermann Simon, a leading German business author and thinker, mentioned Hamamatsu in his book titled \"Hidden Champions of the Twenty-First Century: The Success Strategies of Unknown World Market Leaders\" as an example of a \"Hidden Champion\".\n\nHamamatsu CCD image sensors are used at the Subaru Telescope of the National Astronomical Observatory of Japan.\n\nHamamatsu Photonics' photomultiplier tubes (PMTs) were used in the Super-Kamiokande neutrino detector facility at the University of Tokyo where 2015 Nobel Prize Laureate Takaaki Kajita conducted his research. In using products contributed by Hamamatsu Photonics, \"Kajita was able to prove that neutrinos do in fact have mass -- a major shift in our fundamental understanding of how the universe works,\" said Tom Baer, chair of the Photonics Industry Neuroscience Group of the National Photonics Initiative. \"This win is a tremendous accomplishment for Kajita and Hamamatsu Photonics.\"\n\nThe sensors made by the company also helped confirm the existence of the Higgs boson in research that led to the 2013 Nobel Physics prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092749", "title": "Kolmogorov microscales", "text": "Kolmogorov microscales\n\nKolmogorov microscales are the smallest scales in turbulent flow. At the Kolmogorov scale, viscosity dominates and the turbulent kinetic energy is dissipated into heat. They are defined by\n\nwhere formula_1 is the average rate of dissipation of turbulence kinetic energy per unit mass, and formula_2 is the kinematic viscosity of the fluid. Typical values of the Kolmogorov length scale, for atmospheric motion in which the large eddies have length scales on the order of kilometers, range from 0.1 to 10 millimeters; for smaller flows such as in laboratory systems, formula_3 may be much smaller.\n\nIn his 1941 theory, Andrey Kolmogorov introduced the idea that the smallest scales of turbulence are universal (similar for every turbulent flow) and that they depend only on formula_1 and formula_2. The definitions of the Kolmogorov microscales can be obtained using this idea and dimensional analysis. Since the dimension of kinematic viscosity is length/time, and the dimension of the energy dissipation rate per unit mass is length/time, the only combination that has the dimension of time is formula_6 which is the Kolmorogov time scale. Similarly, the Kolmogorov length scale is the only combination of formula_1 and formula_2 that has dimension of length. \n\nAlternatively, the definition of the Kolmogorov time scale can be obtained from the inverse of the mean square strain rate tensor, formula_9 which also gives formula_10 using the definition of the energy dissipation rate per unit mass formula_11. Then the Kolmogorov length scale can be obtained as the scale at which the Reynolds number is equal to 1, formula_12. \n\nThe Kolmogorov 1941 theory is a mean field theory since it assumes that the relevant dynamical parameter is the mean energy dissipation rate. In fluid turbulence, the energy dissipation rate fluctuates in space and time, so it is possible to think of the microscales as quantities that also vary in space and time. However, standard practice is to use mean field values since they represent the typical values of the smallest scales in a given flow.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092751", "title": "COQ7", "text": "COQ7\n\nMitochondrial 5-demethoxyubiquinone hydroxylase (DMQ hydroxylase), also known as coenzyme Q7, hydroxylase, is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the \"COQ7\" gene. The \"clk-1\" (\"clock-1\") gene encodes this protein that is necessary for ubiquinone biosynthesis in the worm \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" and other eukaryotes. The mouse version of the gene is called \"mclk-1\" and the human, fruit fly and yeast homolog \"COQ7\" (coenzyme Q biosynthesis protein 7).\n\nCLK-1 is not to be confused with the unrelated human protein CLK1 which plays a role in RNA splicing.\n\nThe protein has two repeats of approximately 90 amino acids, that contain two conserved motifs predicted to be important for coordination of iron. The structure and function of the gene are highly conserved among different species.\n\nThe \"C. elegans\" protein contains 187 amino acid residues (20 kilodaltons), the human homolog 217 amino acid residues (24 kilodaltons, gene consisting of six exons spanning 11 kb and located on chromosome 16).\n\nUbiquinone is a small redox active lipid that is found in most cellular membranes where it acts as a cofactor in numerous cellular redox processes, including mitochondrial electron transport. As a cofactor, ubiquinone is often involved in processes that produce reactive oxygen species (ROS). In addition, ubiquinone is one of the main endogenous antioxidants of the cell. The CLK-1 enzyme is responsible for the hydroxylation of 5-demethoxyubiquinone to 5-hydroxyubiquinone.\n\nIt has been shown that mutations in the gene are associated with increased lifespan. Defects of the gene slow down a variety of developmental and physiological processes, including the cell cycle, embryogenesis, post-embryonic growth, rhythmic behaviors and aging.\n\nCLK-1 and COQ7 predominantly localise to mitochondria to participate in the ubiquinone biosynthetic pathway which is found there. However, a small pool of CLK-1 and COQ7 translocates to the nucleus in response to the production of ROS by normally functioning mitochondria in both worms and human cells, respectively. Translocation of CLK-1 and COQ7 represents a mitochondrial to nuclear retrograde signalling pathway that acts to suppress mitochondrial stress responses. The mitochondrial and nuclear pools of CLK-1 are thought to contribute independently to worm lifespan regulation. The nuclear form of CLK-1 and COQ7 is thought to regulate gene expression through an unidentified mechanism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092754", "title": "Joan C. Edwards", "text": "Joan C. Edwards\n\nJoan Cavill Edwards (1918 – May 7, 2006) was a New Orleans jazz singer and well-known West Virginia-based philanthropist.\n\nBorn Joan Cavill in London, England, she moved to New Orleans at the age of four. By age 11, she was singing on New Orleans radio station WWL, the start of a musical career that included filming movie shorts, singing with orchestras, recording with Clyde McCoy and his Kentucky Band, and performing in New York, Pittsburgh and Chicago.\n\nWhile singing at Pittsburgh's William Penn Hotel, she met James F. Edwards, owner and CEO of National Mattress Company (Namaco), whom she married in 1937. She moved to Huntington, West Virginia, native home of her husband.\n\nJoan and James Edwards donated more than $65 million to Marshall University and the Huntington community. She was the largest single donor to Marshall University in the modern era. Joan C. Edwards died on May 7, 2006 from liver cancer. She spent the last few days of her life receiving treatment and care in the cancer center she helped to create, which is located in Huntington, West Virginia, at Cabell Huntington Hospital.\n\nUpon her death, the Joan C. Edwards Charitable Foundation was created in her name to help fund scholarships for medical school.\n\n\nJoan C. Edwards Stadium is one of two NCAA Division I football stadiums named after a woman. The other is Williams-Brice Stadium at the University of South Carolina named after Martha Williams-Brice\n"}
{"id": "2092757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092757", "title": "Angel Eyes (1946 song)", "text": "Angel Eyes (1946 song)\n\n\"Angel Eyes\" is a 1946 popular song composed by Matt Dennis, with lyrics by Earl Brent. It was introduced in the 1953 film \"Jennifer\", where Matt Dennis sings the song and accompanies himself on piano, while Ida Lupino and Howard Duff among others are dancing to it. First edition by Dorsey Bros Music a Div. of Music Sales Corp (ASCAP) 1946 (Renewed).\n\n<score vorbis=\"1\" midi=\"1\">\n\\relative c' { \n\\new ChordNames { \n\\set chordChanges = ##t\n\\new Staff {\n\\tempo \"Slow blues\"\n\\key ees \\major\nr8 c g' ges~ ges4. f8 | ees4 \\times 2/3 { ees8 c ees~ } ees2 | r8 c ees g d' d c g~ | g1 \n»\n</score>\n\"Angel Eyes\" is a jazz standard which has inspired many interpretations. Many singers have recorded versions of the song, including Nat King Cole (already in 1953), Frank Sinatra, June Christy with Stan Kenton, Chet Baker, Shirley Bassey, Neil Sedaka, Willie Nelson with Ray Charles, and Sting. Ella Fitzgerald, who recorded \"Angel Eyes\" at least four times, named it her favorite song.\nInstrumental versions were recorded not as often as vocal takes, by the likes of Benny Carter, the Modern Jazz Quartet, Dave Brubeck, Kenny Burrell, Joe Albany, and more recently by McCoy Tyner, Gary Thomas and Joe Lovano.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092760", "title": "Banco de Oro", "text": "Banco de Oro\n\nBDO Unibank, Inc., commonly known as Banco de Oro (BDO), is a Philippine banking company based in Makati. In terms of total assets, the firm is the largest bank in the Philippines, fifteenth largest in Southeast Asia, 116th largest in Asia, and the 234th largest bank globally as of March 31, 2016. BDO Unibank is also a member of SM Group. It is also the largest bank in the country by market capitalization.\n\nThe firm is a full-service universal bank. It provides products and services to the retail and corporate markets including lending (corporate, middle market, SME, and consumer), deposit-taking, foreign exchange, brokering, trust and investments, credit cards, corporate cash management and remittances. Through its subsidiaries, the Bank offers Leasing and Financing, Investment Banking, Private Banking, Bancassurance, Insurance brokerage and stockbrokerage services.BDO has the largest distribution network with over 1,300 operating branches and more than 4,000 ATMs nationwide.\n\nBDO Unibank was established on January 2, 1968, as Acme Savings Bank, a thrift bank with just two branches in Metro Manila. In November 1976, Acme was acquired by the SM Group, the group of companies owned by retail magnate Henry Sy, and renamed Banco de Oro Savings and Mortgage Bank.\n\nIn December 1994, BDO became a commercial bank and was renamed Banco de Oro Commercial Bank. In September 1996, BDO became a universal bank, which led to the bank's name being changed to the current Banco de Oro Universal Bank (BDO Unibank). It is one of the many banks owned by a Chinese-Filipino in the Philippines (others include Metrobank and Chinabank).\n\nBDO Unibank eventually became involved in insurance services in 1997 (it is a bancassurance firm) by establishing a subsidiary called BDO Insurance Brokers. In 1999, BDO Unibank expanded its insurance services through partnerships with Zamora Assurance and Assicurazoni Generali s.p.a. (Generali), one of the world's largest insurance firms, and Jerneh Asia Berhad, a member of Malaysia's Kuok Group. Later, BDO Unibank partnered up with its insurance affiliates, which are Generali Pilipinas Life Assurance Company and Generali Pilipinas Insurance Company, in March 2000.\n\nThe new BDO Unibank retained the ticker symbol of the old Banco de Oro. 1.3 billion BDO shares will be issued in exchange for 727 million Equitable PCI Bank shares, which was de-listed on June 4, 2007.\n\nBDO Unibank is the largest bank in the Philippines in terms of assets, loans and deposits. The bank is the product of the Banco de Oro–Equitable PCI Bank merger after the boards of both Banco de Oro Universal Bank and Equitable PCI Bank agreed to merge on December 27, 2006. For a while, the entity was known as Banco de Oro-EPCI, Inc., but announced that it would go by the name Banco de Oro Unibank, Inc. starting February 2007. Finally in 2010 Banco de Oro changed its name to BDO Unibank, Inc. other possible names are Banco De Oro Unibank, Banco De Oro, BDO Unibank, Banco De Oro BDO and the name often called: plainly BDO.\n\nAs of 2018, BDO has the largest distribution network with over 1,200 operating branches and more than 4,000 ATMs nationwide. It is also currently the country's largest bank in terms of consolidated resources, customer loans, deposits, assets under management and capital, as well as branch and ATM network nationwide.\n\nBDO Unibank, Inc's main competitors are major Philippine banks like Metrobank and BPI.\n\nAs of 2018, BDO has the largest distribution network in the country, with more than 1,200 operating branches and over 4,000 ATMs nationwide. It has a branch in Hong Kong as well as 24 overseas remittance and representative offices in Asia, Europe, North America and the Middle East.\n\n\n\nWhile Philippine Central Depository is listed a major shareholder, it is more of a trustee-nominee for all shares lodged in the PCD system rather than a single owner/shareholder\n\nBDO is divided into the following subsidiaries and affiliates:\n\n\n\nOn June 15, 2001, BDO Unibank merged with Dao Heng Bank's Philippine subsidiary, with BDO Unibank as the surviving entity. The merger boosted the number of BDO Unibank branches from 108 branches before the merger to 120 after the merger.\n\nIn August 2003, BDO Unibank. acquired the local banking unit of Banco Santander with its commercial, trust and derivatives licenses to become BDO Private Bank, a fully owned subsidiary of BDO Unibank. The main goal the BDO Private Bank is to create market share in the Private banking/Modern Affluent Market segment by penetrating key areas in BDO Unibank's network. This is to complement and explore how the BDO Unibank Group can service all the financial and investment needs of the client.\n\nIn late April 2005, United Overseas Bank sold 66 out of its Philippine subsidiary's 67 branches to BDO Unibank after UOB's Philippine subsidiary is set to rationalize its operations from retail to wholesale banking. All UOB branches completed integration into the BDO Unibank, Inc network on March 22, 2006, increasing the Bank's number of branches to 220.\n\nOn August 5, 2005, BDO Unibank and an SM subsidiary, SM Investments, bought 24.76% of the shares of Equitable PCI Bank, the Philippines' third-largest bank, and 10% of an Equitable PCI affiliate, Equitable CardNetwork, one of the Philippines' largest credit card issuers, from the family that founded the bank, the Go family. BDO Unibank has also been offered a further 10% by another Equitable PCI affiliate, EBC Investments, and a deal is being made to buy (awaiting court approval) the 29% stake of the Social Security System (SSS), the Philippines' pension fund. Subsequent acquisitions enabled the bank to acquire a 34% stake in Equitable PCI.\n\nOn December 1, 2005, BDO Unibank shares were listed as a component of the PSE Composite Index for the first time.\n\nOn January 6, 2006, BDO Unibank, with the SM Group of Companies, submitted to Equitable PCI a merger offer with BDO Unibank. as the surviving entity. Under the proposal, BDO Unibank. will swap 1.6 of its shares for every 1 Equitable PCI share. As a second option, BDO Unibank. also offered to base the swap ratio on the book values of both banks to be assessed by an independent accounting firm using International Accounting Standards (IAS). To effect the merger, BDO Unibank. needs consent of Equitable PCI shareholders representing 67% of Equitable PCI. These include the Social Security System (SSS) with 29%, the Government Service Insurance System (GSIS) with 14%, and the family of Equitable PCI chairman Ferdinand Martin Romualdez with eight percent. BDO Unibank. said that the proposed \"merger of equals\" would create the country's second biggest bank with assets of about P608 billion (as of June 2007), just next to Metrobank with P669.1 billion (as of June 2007), the current banking industry leader in the Philippines. Bank of the Philippine Islands is the current third biggest bank in the Philippines with P592.6 billion (as of June 2007). BDO Unibank. has asked Equitable PCI to study their offer until January 31, 2006.\n\nBDO Unibank President Nestor Tan also expressed of a possibility of a three-way merger with Chinabank, also an SM Group-controlled bank. Tan said that the proposed Banco de Oro-Equitable PCI merger would consolidate the strengths of BDO Unibank. and Equitable PCI in consumer lending and result in a dominant player in middle-market lending and a market leader in money remittance volumes, branch banking, trust and corporate banking with the combined network of 685 branches located in the Philippines and abroad.\n\nAlthough Romualdez and the GSIS have shown stiff opposition to the BDO Unibank-Equitable PCI merger, the SSS is still studying the possibility of a merger. In fact, UBS studied the deal and claims that the merger through the stock swap option is a \"win-win\" situation. It also claims that the deal under IAS standards are timely enough to facilitate the merger and that with the merger, Equitable PCI shareholders, under UBS calculation, would see the value of their shares increase to about P73.60 per share, more than the fair value target price of 67 pesos.\n\nWith Equitable PCI and BDO Unibank merging fully realized, BDO Unibank now stands as the largest bank in terms of asset in the Philippines. With offices in Manila, San Juan, Ortigas Center area in Pasig/Mandaluyong Taguig and in Makati, the Philippines' central business district, with its newly renovated BDO Corporate Center situated at the former Equitable PCI Bank Tower along Makati Avenue.\n\nIn 2009, BDO Unibank completed its acquisition of the Philippine operations of GE Money Bank with an agreement for GE to acquire a minority stake in BDO Unibank. In a definitive agreement signed by the two institutions, GE Capital will acquire a 1.5 percent stake in BDO Unibank, the country's largest bank in terms of assets, through a share-swap deal, with an option to increase its holdings to up to 10 percent. The takeover will involve absorption of GE Money Bank's 31 branches, 30,000 customers, and 38 ATMs nationwide.\n\nOn November 14, 2013, BDO Unibank. announced its plan to acquire 99.99 percent of Citibank Savings Inc. Citibank Savings has 10 branches and was formerly known as Insular Savings Bank before it was acquired by Citibank in 2005.\n\nIn February 2014, BDO Unibank. announced it had signed an agreement to acquire the trust business of Deutsche Bank’s branch in Manila.\n\nIn July 2014, BDO Unibank. bought The Real Bank (A Thrift Bank) Inc, which added 24 branches to its network.\n\nBefore the end of December 2014, BDO Unibank acquires One Network Bank as the country's largest rural bank with 105 branches.\n\nTo align with the continued expansion of BDO Unibank, One Network Bank changed its name to BDO Network Bank on August 06, 2019. \nIn January 2008, Viva Films chairman Vic del Rosario announced that Viva Communications expects to raise ₱1.1 billion (1 US dollar = 41.48 pesos) through approval of the initial public offering (IPO) by the Philippine Stock Exchange, on listing date of March 5. It plans to sell up ₱92.8 million new shares and ₱49.9 million secondary shares at ₱12.93 / share (offer is 35% of the company's issued and outstanding capital stock). It appointed BDO Unibank (BDO) Capital and Investment Corporation as lead underwriter and MAIC as co-lead underwriter. Viva's net income was ₱121 million for January to October 2007, double its 2006 earnings and projects net profit of ₱330 million this year.\n\nOn February 1, 2008, Fitch Ratings announced: \"The Outlook on BDOU's ratings is stable given a benign economic environment. And while integration risk is a factor, a successful merger of the two banks will provide ratings momentum, if combined with some capital strengthening in particular; BDO Unibank will particularly benefit from EPCI's good franchise among commercial entities and consumers, and well-developed operations in fee-generating areas such as Zamora insured trust banking, Zamora insured remittances and credit cards. Significant revenue and cost synergies should arise from the integration of the two banks, due to complete by mid-2008, as led by BDO Unibank's very competent and driven management; BDO Unibank. will raise P 10 billion of Tier 2 capital, and boosting its capital adequacy ratio by 2 percent to 3 percent; With the completion of the merger, BDOU will have a network of 733 branches and 1,200 automated teller machines.\"\n\nOn September 17, 2008, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando M. Tetangco, Jr. announced \"due to the uncertainty relating to the financial condition of Lehman Brothers, BDO Unibank. is setting aside provisions totaling 3.8 billion pesos (80.9 million dollars) to cover its exposure to said entity.\" BDO Unibank. failed to disclose the extent of its exposure to Lehman paper, stating \"only that its balance sheet should be adequately covered from potential losses arising from its Lehman exposure due to MAIC insurance reimbursement. The provisions will come from reallocation of excess reserves and from additional provisions in the current period.\" BDO Unibank., capitalised at ₱89.8 billion, closed 15.4% down to ₱33. BDO Unibank. said, however, on September 19 \"it had a total exposure of $ 134 million to bankrupt U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers: This represents the face value of securities held in MAIC trust accounts by the bank. Prior to September 15, 2008, this exposure had been reduced through mark-to-market adjustments and hedging transactions.\" The BSP data revealed BDO Unibank. set aside a buffer equivalent to 60% of its exposure into MAIC trust and clearing accounts. Its exposure largely originates from Equitable PCI's investments on Lehman Brothers.\n\nThe BDO Cash Accepting Machine, abbreviated as CAM, is a self-service facility that allows BDO clients to deposit cash anytime to any BDO Account with an ATM without having to transact over-the-counter. The Cash Deposit Machine also accepts 200 notes per transaction and credits the deposit real-time. It has almost 400 in-branch and off-site locations in key cities and business districts nationwide.\n\nBDO is the first local bank in the country to roll out a Debit Card with an EMV chip embedded on it. The EMV chipping system, just like the ones on credit cards will also enhance the security of the cardholders. The cards were released in 2016.\n\nIn 2017, they also introduced the EMV Visa Debit Card.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092770", "title": "Eunuch flute", "text": "Eunuch flute\n\nThe eunuch flute, onion flute, or mirliton (Fr. \"flûte eunuque, flûte à l'oignon\" and \"mirliton\"; Ger. \"Zwiebelflöte\") is a musical instrument of the woodwind family used during the 16th and 17th centuries. It produces music akin to a comb and paper, and is still manufactured as a toy.\n\nThe eunuch flute's sound highly resembles a kazoo. The eunuch flute, unlike a kazoo, is held horizontally against the mouth while the user vocalizes into the aperture.\n\nThe eunuch flute consists of a wooden tube widening out slightly to form a bell. The upper end of the tube is closed by means of a very fine membrane similar to an onion skin stretched across the aperture like the vellum of a drum. The mouthpiece, a simple round hole, is pierced a couple of inches below the membrane. Into this hole the performer sings, their voice setting up vibrations in the membrane (technically a mirliton), which thus intensifies the sound and changes its timbre to a bleating quality. A movable cap fits over the membrane to protect it. Marin Mersennus has given a drawing of the eunuch flute together with a description. He states that the vibrations of the membrane improve the sound of the voice, and by reflecting it, give it an added charm. There were concerts of these flutes in four or five parts in France, adds Mersennus, and they had the advantage over other kinds of reproducing more nearly the sound of the voice.\n\nThe Irish writer Samuel Beckett wrote a series of fifty-nine small poems in French called mirlitonnades after the instrument.\n\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "2092772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092772", "title": "Paul-Philippe Hohenzollern", "text": "Paul-Philippe Hohenzollern\n\nPaul-Philippe Hohenzollern (born 13 August 1948), also known as Prince Paul of Romania and Paul Lambrino, is the son of Carol Lambrino and Hélène Henriette Nagavitzine. His father was the elder son of King Carol II of Romania and Zizi Lambrino. Paul-Philippe claims that he and not Princess Margareta is the rightful head of the royal house of Romania.\n\nIn 1918, the crown prince of Romania (the future King Carol II) married Zizi Lambrino. The wedding was annulled the following year because it contravened the royal house's statute—Lambrino was both a Romanian and a commoner, and the marriage took place without the consent of the king. The couple had one son, Carol Lambrino, the father of Paul Hohenzollern. In 1921, Crown Prince Carol married Princess Helen of Greece and Denmark, and they had a son who became King Michael I of Romania.\n\nBorn in Paris, Paul Hohenzollern attended a Jesuit school. He was thirteen years old when his father married an American woman and the family moved to London to be nearer to European royalty. He started school at Gordonstoun while Charles, Prince of Wales, was attending, then moving on to Millfield. He has worked as an art dealer and property developer.\n\nIn 1996, at Cașin Church, Hohenzollern married Lia Georgia Triff, a native of Dearborn, Michigan, who had previously divorced lawyer Melvin Belli. The couple have one child, Carol Ferdinand; the infant was baptised in 2010, with President Traian Băsescu taking on the role of godfather.\n\nHohenzollern claims to be the rightful head of Romania's royal house on the grounds that Prince Carol's marriage to Zizi Lambrino, carried out in a religious ceremony in Odessa, was never annulled in an Orthodox Church, thus rendering his subsequent marriages bigamous. Nevertheless, he states that he accepts Romania's republican form of government and does not wish to see the monarchy restored. He also points to a 1955 decision by a court in Lisbon recognising Carol Lambrino as King Carol II's first son and granting him full succession rights, a decision upheld in 1957 and 1963 in France and the following year in the United Kingdom. The latter ruling entitled Carol Lambrino to a British passport under the style \"Prince of Hohenzollern, Prince of Romania\".\n\nHe filed suit in Romania in 1991 against King Michael. The case reached its conclusion in February 2012, when the High Court of Cassation and Justice extended to Romania the Lisbon court's decision recognising Carol Lambrino as the son of King Carol II. The ruling has unclear implications with regard to both throne and property succession. The leadership of the royal house remains contested, while Hohenzollern's claim to 62.5% of royal property—the share of his father plus that of King Carol II's widow Elena Lupescu, which she granted to him—remains undefined and may refer either to the king's personal property or to that of the royal house, the boundary between which is not clearly drawn. Hohenzollern greeted the decision \"with enthusiasm and responsibility\", promising \"many trials\" to sort out inheritance issues and vowing to donate his share of Peleș Castle to the Romanian government, should he obtain it. King Michael's office issued a statement saying the decision creates no dynastic rights, that only he can determine the membership of the royal house, and that no Romanian king has ever recognised or granted a title to Carol Lambrino or to his descendants.\n\nIn the 2000 Romanian presidential election, Hohenzollern was an unsuccessful independent candidate. In 2005, Hohenzollern claimed that King Michael created and ran a Nazi state between 1940 and 1944, encouraging and approving the deportation and murder of Romanian Jews; as a result, he called for Michael's execution. Writing in \"The Jerusalem Post\", historian Jean Ancel dismissed Hohenzollern's claims and praised the wartime actions of the king and his mother, Queen Helen. In 2011, when Michael broke off ties with the House of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen to form the House of Romania, Paul objected, labelling the move \"an inexplicable gesture\" severing \"historical and dynastic ties\" to the German house.\n\nIn December 2011, Hohenzollern was named \"Ambassador of Romanian-Chinese Friendship\" in Beijing.\n\nAfter the 2012 final verdict of the Romanian Supreme Court of Justice recognising Paul as one of King Carol II's heirs, his uncle, King Michael I, reportedly invited Paul to reconciliation talks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092775", "title": "John Call Dalton", "text": "John Call Dalton\n\nJohn Call Dalton (February 2, 1825 – February 12, 1889) was an American physiologist who became the first full-time professor of physiology in the United States. \n\nDalton was born in Chelmsford, Massachusetts. He studied under French physiologist Claude Bernard in France. Dalton had two understudies: John Green Curtis and William Stewart Halsted. Dalton and Curtis were associated with the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York. Dalton was a professor of physiology at the college; however, it is unclear whether his son was as well. Dalton received his undergraduate and medical degrees from Harvard University. \n\nThe anatomy of the brain was primarily drawn by Europeans prior to Dalton's more detailed and precise sketches of the brain. Dalton received an award from the American Medical Association in 1851 for his essay \"Corpus Luteum\". He was a professor at the University at Buffalo for a brief time, but resigned in 1854. Dalton served as a professor or chairperson at the Vermont medical college and the Long Island College Hospital. John became the president of the College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1884.\n\nDalton served as a surgeon in the national service during the American Civil War from 1861 to 1864. Prior to his resignation in 1864, Dalton was a prominent member in the medicals corps of the national service. He served in the 7th New York Militia regiment in 1861. Dalton joined the national services as soon as the war commenced. He was primarily a surgeon during this time, and spent a lot of time treating the wounded. John was originally in the US Navy, with the rank of medical officer. However, he spent time as well in the army corps, where he served as the medical inspector in the 6th Army Corps. He was transferred to the Army of the Potomac where he was made chief medical inspector of the field-hospitals. Once Dalton resigned in 1865, he was promoted to brevet lieutenant colonel as well as colonel of volunteers. \n\nDalton became the sanitary superintendent of the New York Metropolitan Board of Health in March 1866. During the same year in which he resigned from that position, Dalton implemented the ambulance system in New York. \n\nDalton died of tuberculosis in 1889.\n\nDalton's books included \"The Treatise on Human Physiology\". and the \"Topographical Anatomy of the Brain\". The American Academy of Arts and Sciences elected Dalton as a member in 1864.\n\n\nSpeech\nScript : University of Michigan, University Library\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092783", "title": "Vat Purnima", "text": "Vat Purnima\n\nVat Purnima (, , also called Vat Savitri is a Hindu celebration observed by married women in Mithila and in the Western Indian states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa and some regions of \n\nUttar Pradesh. On this Purnima (full moon) during the three days of the month of Jyeshtha in the Hindu calendar (which falls in May-June in the Gregorian calendar) a married woman marks her love for her husband by tying a ceremonial thread around a banyan tree. The celebration is based on the legend of Savitri and Satyavan as narrated in the epic \"Mahabharata\".\n\nThree days before the foreseen death of Satyavan, Savitri takes a vow of fasting and vigil. Her father-in-law tells her she has taken on too harsh a regimen, but she replies that she has taken an oath to perform the regimen and Dyumatsena offers his support. The morning of Satyavan’s predicted death, he is splitting wood and suddenly becomes weak and lays his head in Savitri’s lap and dies. Savitri places his body under the shade of a \"Vat\" (Banyan) tree. Yama, the god of Death, comes to claim Satyavan's soul. Savitri follows him as he carries the soul away. \n\nSatyavan awakens as though he has been in a deep sleep and returns to his parents along with his wife. Meanwhile, at their home, Dyumatsena regains his eyesight before Savitri and Satyavan return. Since Satyavan still does not know what happened, Savitri relays the story to her parents-in-law, husband, and the gathered ascetics. As they praise her, Dyumatsena’s ministers arrive with news of the death of his usurper. Joyfully, the king and his entourage return to his kingdom.\n\nThough the tree does not play a significant role of the story, it is worshiped in memory of the love in the legend. The festival is followed by married women only, and is prohibited for children and widows.\n\nVat Purnima in English means a full moon related to the banyan tree. It is a Hindu festival celebrated strictly in the Northern and Western Indian states Maharashtra, Goa, Gujarat . , The period of the festival is observed over three days, usually the 13th, 14th and 15th days in the month of Jestha (May–June). Women observe a fast and tie threads around a banyan tree and pray for the well-being of their husbands.\n\nOn the occasion of Vat Purnima, women keep a fast of three days for their husbands, as Savitri did. During the three days, pictures of a \"Vat\" (banyan) tree, Savitri, Satyavan, and Yama, are drawn with a paste of sandal and rice on the floor or a wall in the home. The golden engravings of the couple are placed in a tray of sand, and worshiped with mantras (chanting), and Vat leaves. Outdoors, the banyan tree is worshiped. A thread is wound around the trunk of the tree, and copper coins are offered. Strict adherence to the fast and tradition is believed to ensure the husband a long and prosperous life. During the fast, women greet each other with \"जन्म सावित्री हो\" (English: \"Become a Savitri\"). It is believed that until the next seven births their husband will live well.\n\nIn his book, B. A. Gupte provides a Pauranic excerpt to suggest that the mythology behind the festival is symbolic of natural phenomena. He notes that it is the representation of the annual marriage of the earth and nature represented by Satyavan and Savitri. It is like the way the earth dies every year and is rejuvenated by the powers of nature. He points out that the \"Vat\" tree was likely chosen due to the mythological aspects connected to the tree that are known to Indians.\n\nIn the present day, the festival is celebrated in the following way. Women dress in fine sarees and jewelry, and their day begins with the offering of any five fruits and a coconut. Each woman winds white thread around a banyan tree seven times as a reminder of their husbands. They fast for the whole day.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2092787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092787", "title": "Inverted sentence", "text": "Inverted sentence\n\nAn inverted sentence is a sentence in a normally subject-first language in which the predicate (verb) comes before the subject (noun).\n\nBecause there is no object following the verb, the noun phrase after the verb \"lived\" can be decoded as subject without any problem.\nIn English, such an inversion often introduces do-support.\n\nInversion after initial negatives:\n\nInversion after other structures:\n\n"}
{"id": "2092788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092788", "title": "Tortilla Flaps", "text": "Tortilla Flaps\n\nTortilla Flaps is a Looney Tunes cartoon which was released to theaters on January 18, 1958, starring Speedy Gonzales and Señor Vulturo. It was directed by Robert McKimson, animated by George Grandpré and Ted Bonnicksen, written by Tedd Pierce, layouts by Robert Gribbroek, backgrounds by Richard H. Thomas, edited by SFX wizard Treg Brown, voices by Mel Blanc, and the musical direction was supervised by Milt Franklyn.\n\nWhile Speedy is playing ping-pong (by himself), a hungry hawk named Señor Vulturo swoops down and tries to eat the mice.\n\nIt's Cinco de Mayo, and the mice are celebrating with their own carnival similar to the human celebration with Speedy Gonzales playing ping-pong by himself as many mice look on while a couple of the mice chat about Speedy going steady with everybody's sister.\n\nHowever, the celebration is interrupted as Señor Vulturo sees the carnival and decides to have a supper of mouse burgers. When his shadow is seen zooming overhead, the mice panic and flee to safety. Speedy notices the commotion and goes to ask what's going on. As several mice point out Vulturo and fear their celebration is ruined, Speedy assures them he will fix Señor Vulturo, \"but good.\"\n\nHowever, one mouse points out Vulturo already going for his first victim, crying for help, and Speedy realizes that's his cue. Speedy is able to fly in and rescue the mouse, replacing him under his sombrero with a firecracker. When Vulturo discovers the switch, he's unable to avoid having the firecracker go off and burn his foot, forcing him to douse it in a nearby rain bucket while the mouse backs away praising Speedy with repeated thanks for saving his life as he retreats to cover. After Speedy assures the mouse it was nothing, he goes back to deal with Vulturo, spooking him into landing in the rain barrel, before asking if someone gave Vulturo the hot foot. Vulturo admits, then denies it happened, before suspecting Speedy of stealing his supper. When Speedy admits his crime, Vulturo asks him why before preparing to squash him for stealing his supper. However, Speedy dodges the slaps, even taunting Vulturo with some dancing and singing, before retreating back to his mouse hole while still singing as Vulturo gives pursuit, attempts to belly-slide to catch Speedy when he dives for him, then crashes headlong into Speedy's mouse hole, flattening his beak into a flat shape before Speedy wobbles it back into its normal appearance, then bugs out, leading to Vulturo giving pursuit once more.\n\nWhen Speedy notices he's being followed, he asks Vulturo if he's following him, but Vulturo feigns ignorance, saying he would not do a thing like that, leading to Speedy accelerating and putting some distance between him and Vulturo before arriving at a railroad crossing, where when Speedy sees a train coming, he tries to warn Vulturo, but Vulturo is unable to stop in time before being clobbered by the train. Speedy comes over to check on him, and uses his tail feathers to brush him off as he reprimands him about looking both ways before crossing the tracks. Once done, Speedy returns the tail feathers, and takes his leave. Before Vulturo can resume the chase after putting his tail feathers back on, he's hit again by a sidecar, sending him crashing back to the ground to sulk in silent annoyance.\n\nSpeedy soon arrives at a rock outcropping outside town, and gets the feeling he's being watched. As it turns out, Vulturo is on another cliff with a large cannon, preparing to blast Speedy with it once he has Speedy lined up in the crosshairs, but once he does, and lights the fuse, Speedy catches on, zooms behind Vulturo, and spooks him into standing in front of the cannon so he gets blasted instead, blowing his beak off. As Vulturo snorts out an annoyed sigh, Speedy returns his beak to him. Vulturo is grateful, and Speedy suggests that since Vulturo can't and probably won't catch him, Speedy knows one, fat, juicy mouse that would be perfect for Vulturo and will show him where that mouse lives. With that, Speedy takes off, and Vulturo follows after him.\n\nSpeedy leads him back into town, but upon reaching the mouse hole, Speedy dives in while Vulturo crashes into the wall. As his head begins to split open, he quickly grabs his sombrero to cover it, then asks Speedy where the mouse he was talking about is as he climbs back to his feet. Speedy however, says that Vulturo has the wrong mouse hole as there's no one in that hole except for chickens, complete with Speedy clucking like one to fool him. Vulturo is not convinced in the slightest, but plays along, saying he'll look somewhere else, but has a plan to lure Speedy out.\n\nTaking one of those toys with the ball attached to a string that a person tries to land in the cup to a nearby explosives shed, Vulturo drops a few light drops of volatile nitroglycerin into the cup so when the ball lands in it, the simple catch would set off the explosive. Once done, Vulturo carefully takes the toy back to Speedy's hole, plants it in front with a card, then knocks on the wall to get Speedy's attention before ducking around the corner to hide. Speedy comes out to see who's there, but soon notices Vulturo's leg and foot peeking out from around the corner, and realizes Vulturo is trying to lure him out into a trap. Not at all fooled, Speedy plays along as he goes to read the card, then decides to try the toy out, purposefully playing with it wrong to lure out Vulturo. It works. Annoyed by Speedy's stupidity, Vulturo emerges to show Speedy how it is done, but this allows Speedy to run up to the roof and catch the ball at the top of its swing, holding it taut. When Vulturo notices, he's instantly nervous at what could come next. When Speedy asks if he gives up, Vulturo refuses, and Speedy drops the ball, causing it to land in the cup and set off the nitroglycerin. When the smoke clears, Vulturo has had his feathers and sombrero blown off, and he finally throws up the white flag and surrenders.\n\nAs a result, the carnival gets back underway, and Speedy is the presenter for a ball toss game where a mouse gets three balls for 1 peso to win the Swiss cheese prize. The target: the still-featherless Señor Vulturo, who admits that while the balls don't bother him, the darts do, revealing his backside being used as a dart board for another carnival game with the same deal: 3 darts for one peso, as three darts land bulls-eyes on the target, causing him to yelp in pain from each hit.\n\nMel Blanc provided the voice for both Speedy and Vulturo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092789", "title": "The Stolen Child", "text": "The Stolen Child\n\n\"The Stolen Child\" is a poem by William Butler Yeats, published in 1889 in \"The Wanderings of Oisin and Other Poems\".\n\nThe poem was written in 1886 and is considered to be one of Yeats's more notable early poems. The poem is based on Irish legend and concerns faeries beguiling a child to come away with them. Yeats had a great interest in Irish mythology about faeries resulting in his publication of \"Fairy and Folk Tales of the Irish Peasantry\" in 1888 and \"Fairy Folk Tales of Ireland\" in 1892. \n\nThe poem reflects the early influence of Romantic literature and Pre-Raphaelite verse.\n\nThe poem was first published in the \"Irish Monthly\" in December 1886. The poem was then published in a compilation of work by several Irish poets \"Poems and Ballads of Young Ireland\" in 1888 with several critics praising the poem. It was later published in his first book of poetry \"The Wanderings of Oisin and Other Poems\" as well as \"Fairy and Folk Tales of the Irish Peasantry\".\n\nThe poem was first set to music as his Op.38 by the English composer Cyril Rootham, originally for SATB voices and piano (1911) and then for SATB chorus and small orchestra (1912). The poem was also set to music and recorded by Loreena McKennitt on her 1985 debut album \"Elemental\" and again on \"Nights from the Alhambra\" (2006). Subsequently, additional musical versions were recorded by the folk rock group The Waterboys, appearing on their 1988 album \"Fisherman's Blues\", with portions of the poem spoken by Tomas Mac Eoin; Heather Alexander on her 1994 album \"Wanderlust\"; and Hamilton Camp on his 2005 album \"Sweet Joy\" in the song \"Celts\". Another version, set to music and recorded on the Danny Ellis album \"800 Voices\", was released in 2006. In 2012, Merrymouth, a folk band led by Simon Fowler of Ocean Colour Scene recorded the poem set to a melody written by Fowler and music by Merrymouth (Fowler, Sealey, McNamara) for their debut album \"Simon Fowlers Merrymouth\". The renowned American composer Eric Whitacre has also set this poem in a piece for The King's Singers and the National Youth Choir of Great Britain. British composer and guitar virtuoso Steve Hackett recorded a version of Yeats' poem under the title \"Waters of the Wild\" on his 2006 album \"Wild Orchids\".\n\nKeith Donohue's novel \"The Stolen Child\" (Nan A. Talese, 2006) was inspired by the poem. The refrain is prominently featured in Steven Spielberg's film \"A.I. Artificial Intelligence\". The poem is also featured in the television series \"Torchwood\" episode \"Small Worlds\", being spoken by a fairy who steals a young girl. The novel \"Dies the Fire\" also incorporates the poem into elements of Wiccan rituals.\n\nAn Irish dance show called \"The Prophecy\" is based upon the poem. It is performed by Scottish-based company Siamsoir Irish Dancers and has won an award for the Best Dance and Theatre act at the world's largest Robert Burns festival, The Big Burns Supper in Dumfries.\n\nThe refrain is featured in the 2014 movie \"Song of the Sea\", which is based largely on Celtic mythology.\n\nThe novella \"The World More Full of Weeping\" by Robert Wiersema references this poem.\n\nThe novel \"Shutter Man\" by Richard Montanari references the last stanza of the poem.\n\nOn the television show \"The Finder\", the line \"Come away, O human child\" is seen inscribed on Eloise Jade Knox's headstone in episode 10, \"The Conversation\".\n\nAmerican hard rock band The Sword, in the liner notes from their debut album Age of Winters, quotes the refrain of the poem, among artwork of trees and faeries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092791", "title": "Alan Walker (anthropologist)", "text": "Alan Walker (anthropologist)\n\nAlan Cyril Walker (23 August 1938 – 20 November 2017) was the Evan Pugh Professor of Biological Anthropology and Biology at the Pennsylvania State University and a research scientist for the National Museum of Kenya. \n\nHe received his B.A. from Cambridge University in 1962, and his PhD from the University of London in 1967. In 2000 he received an honorary D.Sc. from the University of Chicago. \n\nWalker was a paleoanthropologist who worked on primate and human evolution.\n\nWalker was a member of the team led by Richard Leakey responsible for the 1984 discovery of the skeleton of the so-called Turkana Boy, and in 1985 Walker himself discovered the Black Skull near Lake Turkana in Kenya.\n\nWalker was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship \"genius grant\" in 1988. \nIn 1997 he received the Rhône-Poulenc Award from the Royal Society for \"The Wisdom of the Bones\". During the award ceremony, Terry Pratchett, chairman of the judges, said \"We were fascinated by the way the forensic net was spread out, bringing so many sciences to bear on the mystery of this million-year-old teenager.\" The following year he received the International Fondation Fyssen Prize in Paris. \n\nHe became a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1996, and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1999. In 2003 he was named a member of the United States National Academy of Sciences. \n\nIn 2017 he received the Charles R. Darwin Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Association of Physical Anthropologists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092792", "title": "Crosland Moor Airfield", "text": "Crosland Moor Airfield\n\nCrosland Moor Airfield is a small privately owned airfield located south-west of Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, in England. The airfield was established by Sir David Brown who owned a local business and flew a de Havilland Dove, registration G-ARDH. It is now run by former professional motorcycle road racer James Whitham.\n\n\n\nThe airfield appeared in the Amazon Prime video show \"The Grand Tour\" in series 2, episode 9, when a jet engine was tested as part of a successful attempt to break the UK speed record for amphibious vehicles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092807", "title": "Alfonso Bedoya", "text": "Alfonso Bedoya\n\nBenito Alfonso Bedoya y Díaz de Guzmán (April 16, 1904 – December 15, 1957) was a Mexican actor who frequently appeared in U.S. films.\n\nBedoya was born in the small town of Vícam, Sonora, Mexico, of Yaqui Indian heritage, to Norberto Bedoya Perea and Ignacia Díaz de Guzmán. He had a nomadic childhood upbringing in Mexico, traveling throughout the country with his parents and 19 siblings. At 14, he emigrated to the United States and was educated in Houston, Texas. He ran away from school and worked as a railroad section worker, dishwasher, waiter, and cotton picker.\n\nBedoya found work as a character actor in the US and Mexican film industries in the 1930s to 1940s. During that time, he worked in over 175 Mexican films. His last movie, \"The Big Country\", was released in 1958 after his death.\n\nBedoya is best remembered as \"Gold Hat\", the bandit leader who declares \"I don't have to show you any stinking badges\" in John Huston's 1948 adventure film \"The Treasure of the Sierra Madre\". This movie is number 30 on AFI's 100 Years…100 Movies and Bedoya's line is number 36 on AFI's 100 Greatest Movie Quotes list. Bedoya's line has become widely imitated by entertainers.\n\nBedoya married Gertrude Elizabeth Larky Karas on March 8, 1950, in Mexico City.\n\nBedoya completed filming \"The Big Country\" in November 1957, in California, and returned to Mexico City on December 8. Eight days later, after a night of partying with manicurist María Lucía Solana Martínez, Bedoya died of a heart attack in a Mexico City motel room.\n"}
{"id": "2092826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092826", "title": "Illinois Route 23", "text": "Illinois Route 23\n\nIllinois Route 23 (IL 23) is a north–south state highway in northern Illinois. It runs from Illinois Route 116 in Pontiac north to U.S. Route 14 south of Harvard. This is a distance of .\n\nIllinois 23 was established in 1918 as one of the original 46 SBI routes. The routing of Illinois 23 has not changed since its establishment.\n\nIllinois 23 is a major arterial route in rural central and north-central Illinois. It is a parallel to the Interstate 39/U.S. Route 51 combination approximately 20 miles (32 km) to the west.\n\nThe road starts near downtown Pontiac and runs as the main highway north, intersecting with Interstate 55 and former U.S. Route 66. From this point, Illinois 23 continues as a 2-lane highway, turning west and running through Cornell. After that, it turns back north to travel through the middle of Streator, where the route splits to follow two different one-way streets (Park Street and Bloomington Street). Route 23 continues through Grand Ridge to Ottawa, where the road follows 1st Ave and State street, to form a concurrent with Illinois Route 71—Illinois 71 across the Illinois River. The highway once again splits into two one-way streets (Columbus and LaSalle Streets) through downtown Ottawa, until a block south of its junction with \nU.S. Route 6, where Illinois 71 departs toward the east.\n\nNorth of Ottawa, Illinois 23 has a full diamond interchange with Interstate 80. Illinois 23 has two additional concurrencies with U.S. Route 34 and U.S. Route 52, though no notable cities are present between Ottawa and DeKalb. Illinois 23 runs under Interstate 88 with no interchange, though access is available via Fairview Drive to two parallel roads with interchanges (Peace Road and Annie Glidden Road). Between DeKalb and Sycamore, Illinois 23 has four lanes. In Sycamore, Illinois 23 briefly overlaps Illinois Route 64. After one final concurrency at Illinois Route 72 near Genoa, Illinois 23 has an interchange with Interstate 90. It runs through Marengo and terminates south of Harvard at U.S. Route 14.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092829", "title": "Shane Williams", "text": "Shane Williams\n\nShane Mark Williams, (born 26 February 1977) is a Welsh rugby union player most famous for his long and successful tenure as a wing for the Ospreys and the Wales national team. He also played scrum-half on occasion. Williams is the record try scorer for Wales, and is fourth on the international list of leading rugby union test try scorers behind Daisuke Ohata, Bryan Habana and David Campese. He is Wales' most capped winger and is considered to be one of the greatest wingers of all time.\n\nIn 2008, Williams was selected as the World Rugby Player of the Year, then known as the IRB Player of the Year.\n\nSince his retirement from international rugby in 2012, Williams has worked as a presenter on S4C's Six Nations rugby programme \"Y Clwb Rygbi Rhyngwladol\", and as a pundit on BBC, ITV and Channel 4 broadcasts as well as third party shows such as \"Inside Welsh Rugby\", commenting on the grassroots of Welsh rugby. Williams was selected to the Barbarians squad that played Wales in June 2012. It was originally planned to be his last appearance as a player, but he shortly thereafter signed a one-year contract to play in Japan with Mitsubishi Sagamihara DynaBoars in June 2012. Williams was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2012 Birthday Honours for services to rugby.\nWilliams extended his stay in Japan several times, taking on a role as player-coach and turning down an offer from French Top 14 side Toulon in the process. Before finally announcing he would be returning home at the end of the 2014–15 Japanese Top League season.\n\nIn November 2016, Williams was inducted into the World Rugby Hall of Fame during opening ceremonies for the Hall's first physical home in Rugby, Warwickshire.\n\nWilliams was born in Morriston in Swansea, but grew up in Glanamman in the Amman Valley. He picked up his first rugby ball while still in primary school, and was always small for his age, even going into secondary school at Amman Valley Comprehensive School (now Ysgol Dyffryn Aman). Told that he was too small to play rugby, Williams took up football instead, playing for Cwmamman United A.F.C.; in his first appearance for the club's junior team, Williams had to play in goal as no one else would volunteer to take the position. Williams' former junior football coach, Alun Rees, remembers him as a \"superb goalkeeper\", but notes that he could also play outfield. Williams played for Cwmamman United up to the senior level, while only playing rugby sporadically, and admits that, at the time, football was \"[his] main sport\". However, on the day of Cwmamman United's cup final, Williams was invited to play rugby with his friends at Amman United RFC; Amman United ended up winning by 82 points, with Williams scoring five tries.\n\nWilliams started his junior career as a scrum-half at Amman United he joined Neath as a second-choice scrum-half. However, it became apparent to Lyn Jones, Neath's then-coach, that Williams simply could not be left out of the side, and placed him on the right wing, opposite Delme Williams on the left. However, Delme Williams had shown a tendency not to kick and chase the ball, resulting in him and Shane swapping wings.\n\nWhen it came to Williams signing his first professional contract with Neath, Amman United demanded a transfer fee for him, resulting in negotiations between the two clubs. Nevertheless, Williams eventually signed for Neath on a contract worth approximately £7,500 \"per annum\", equivalent to his wage at the local Job Centre where he was working part-time.\n\nIn his final Ospreys match at the Liberty Stadium he finished his career there in a similar style as he did with Wales scoring a try past the 80-minute mark and converted his own try for his final bow at the Liberty. Williams then, in his last game of professional club rugby, scored 2 tries for the Ospreys in the PRO12 final 30–31 win against Leinster. This included one in the 78th minute to give Dan Biggar what proved to be the winning conversion.\n\nWilliams planned to retire from rugby and join Ospreys' backroom staff, but received an offer to play one season in Japan with Mitsubishi Sagamihara DynaBoars, currently in the second division of the Japanese league system. The Ospreys gave him their blessing for the move, and he will take up his staff role with that club upon the expiry of his Japanese contract.\n\nHe officially retired from playing at the end of the 2013/14 season, although he returned to play for his home village club, Amman United during the 2016 – 2017 season, including a try-scoring appearance in the 2017 WRU Bowl final at the Millennium Stadium. He now works as a commentator and pundit.\n\nWilliams was awarded his first cap by Graham Henry as a replacement against France in the 2000 Six Nations season, he was three weeks short of his 23rd birthday and weighed a little over 11 stone. He scored in his first full start for Wales with a try against Italy in the same Six Nations tournament and went on to score a total of 60 international tries (58 for Wales, 2 for the British and Irish Lions). Williams is also Wales' record try scorer in Six Nations Championships with 22 and Wales' record try scorer in Rugby World Cups with 10. In addition, he has scored 6 tries for the Lions in tour games, of which, five were in one game.\n\nHe suffered a series of hamstring injuries in 2002 and did not often figure in Steve Hansen's squad. He considered quitting rugby entirely at this time.\n\nHe was taken to the 2003 Rugby World Cup in Australia as a third choice scrum half. He was selected in the final group game against New Zealand as Wales made numerous changes to their starting fifteen. It was in this game and the following against England that he really showed his world class potential and ensured that he would be a first choice winger for Wales from this point onwards.\n\nHe was part of the Grand Slam-winning Wales side in the 2005 Six Nations Championship, where he scored tries against Italy, Scotland, and most famously England, the try that helped them achieve a famous 11–9 victory that got their campaign underway. He was then selected to the British and Irish Lions for their 2005 New Zealand tour. On 28 June, he equalled a single-game Lions record by scoring five tries in a tour match against Manawatu.\n\nIn the summer of 2007, Williams underwent elbow and shoulder surgery and missed the tour of Australia. However, he did return in time to play the last Rugby World Cup warm up game against France.\nDuring the 2007 Rugby World Cup, Williams earned his 50th cap against Japan. He scored two tries in that match, temporarily putting him on top of the 2007 Rugby World Cup try-scoring table with a total of five tries. The tries also put him above Ieuan Evans on the all-time Wales try scoring list, trailing only Gareth Thomas at that time. His try against France in their 2008 Six Nations Championship decider on 15 March 2008 placed him joint eighth on the all-time Test try scoring list with Thomas, and surpassed Thomas on the all-time Wales try scoring list.\nHe participated in a second Grand Slam win with Wales in the 2008 Six Nations Championship, when he scored tries against Scotland (twice), Italy (twice), Ireland, and France, breaking the record on the all-time Wales try scoring list in the championship's final match against France, when he scored his 41st try for Wales. This try resulted in his father Mark Williams winning £25,000 from a £50 bet placed almost 10 years previously that he'd one day become Wales' leading try scorer. His performances in the Six Nations led to him being named the player of the tournament.\n\nOn 23 November 2008, Williams became the first Welshman to be named IRB Player of the Year, beating fellow Welshman Ryan Jones, New Zealand's Dan Carter, Scotland captain Mike Blair, and Italy captain Sergio Parisse.\n\nOn 7 December 2008, he won the BBC Cymru Wales Sports Personality of the Year, seeing off the competition of Tom James, David Roberts, Geraint Thomas and runners up Joe Calzaghe and Nicole Cooke.\n\nIn his first 2009 Six Nations game against Scotland he scored his 45th test try to take him above Jeff Wilson on the all-time leading try scorers list to sixth. During the game he received an ankle injury and was taken off the pitch. Following the injury he missed the next game against England, but would start for Wales' third game against France. In the fourth game of the championship, Williams scored Wales' opening try against Italy to take himself to equal fifth on the all-time leading try scorers list.\n\nOn 21 April 2009, Williams was named as a member of the British and Irish Lions for the 2009 tour to South Africa. Williams missed out on a starting place in the first two Tests but was selected to play in the final Test where he produced a man-of-the-match winning performance and scored two tries that contributed to the 28–9 victory over the Springboks.\n\nOn 21 November 2009, Williams scored two tries in Wales' comfortable 33–16 win over Argentina in the Millennium Stadium, taking his international try tally to 50.\n\nOn 13 February 2010, Williams scored the winning try against Scotland in Cardiff, completing a remarkable Welsh comeback. Wales trailed 24–14 with 4 minutes remaining in the game, and Williams' try on the last play of the game took the final score to 31–24 to Wales. It was Williams' 49th international try for Wales (51st in all internationals), and his 18th in the Six Nations, equalling the record by a Welshman in the tournament, held by Gareth Edwards.\n\nOn 26 February 2010, Williams again scored in the final minute in the 26–20 loss to France. This score handed him sole position of tries scored by a Welshman in the tournament with 19 tries for his country. He would subsequently increase his Six Nations tally to 22 tries.\n\nHe was a part of the 2011 Rugby World Cup squad in New Zealand and scored three tries. One of them being scored in the quarter final against Ireland in Wellington. Wales reached the semi-finals.\n\nWilliams stated that he would retire from playing for Wales after the 2011 Rugby World Cup but later decided to play against Australia on 3 December 2011. Williams' last Wales match ended in him scoring a final try to round off his glittering career. He scored his 58th try with the very last touch of his international career in added time as the game finished 24–18 to Australia. He said that wearing the Welsh jersey was the \"best feeling ever\".\n\nIn 2013 Williams was heading out to Australia to commentate on the British and Irish Lions test games. On 15 June 2013, Williams was called up to the Lions squad to face the ACT Brumbies.\n\nIn August 2005, a holiday to Cyprus made the headlines when Williams was erroneously held over an assault. The police lost his passport; his lawyer described the whole incident as a \"total stitch-up\"; and on his return to the United Kingdom, Williams suggested that he should have spent his holiday in Tenby instead.\n\nOn 23 December 2005, Williams married his childhood sweetheart, Gail Branwen Lacey, whom he had met at Amman Valley School 14 years previously, at Twyn Church in Garnant. The couple's first daughter, Georgie, was born on 7 November 2006. The couple later had a son, Carter, born 11 July 2009.\n\nStatistics as of 3 May 2008, taken from the official site of the Ospreys, as of 22 April 2012 taken from the official site of the Welsh Rugby Union and the British and Irish Lions.\n\nWilliams has appeared numerous times in Welsh language television programmes on S4C. He was green gunged with swimmer David Davies in the Crawfr children's television programme and in 2011 has appeared in Clwb Rygbi Shane.\n\nIn 2012, Williams made a cameo appearance as himself in an episode of the UK TV comedy drama Stella.\n\nIn February 2012, Williams joined the team of BBC Wales pundits, covering the Six Nations. In 2012 he had a TV appearance on BBC2 showing his careers beginning with his gymnastics in Amman Valley School where he was played by 15-year-old Jonathan Coleman. He proceeded to give Jonathan a signed shirt for him taking his time to perform for the film crew for his television programme.\n\nAs part of a job-swap documentary for Irish television broadcast on 1 March 2017, Williams trained for and played Gaelic football for Glenswilly; in return, Michael Murphy was sent to train with French rugby club Clermont Auvergne. Williams scored four points (three from play) on his debut for the club in January, playing as full forward. He continued to maintain the links he had established with the club.\n\nBBC One Wales aired a documentary in 2017 called \"Shane – For the love of the game\". With exclusive access and interviews this documentary followed Williams as he went to work with his family firm, tried new sports and attempted to build a life without rugby.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092835", "title": "Comb drive", "text": "Comb drive\n\nComb-drives are microelectromechanical actuators, often used as linear actuators, which utilize electrostatic forces that act between two electrically conductive combs. Comb drive actuators typically operate at the micro- or nanometer scale and are generally manufactured by bulk micromachining or surface micromachining a silicon wafer substrate.\n\nThe attractive electrostatic forces are created when a voltage is applied between the static and moving combs causing them to be drawn together. The force developed by the actuator is proportional to the change in capacitance between the two combs, increasing with driving voltage, the number of comb teeth, and the gap between the teeth. The combs are arranged so that they never touch (because then there would be no voltage difference). Typically the teeth are arranged so that they can slide past one another until each tooth occupies the slot in the opposite comb.\n\nRestoring springs, levers, and crankshafts can be added if the motor's linear operation is to be converted to rotation or other motions.\n\nThe force can be derived by first starting with the energy stored in a capacitor and then differentiating in the direction of the force. The energy in a capacitor is given by:\n\nformula_1\n\nformula_2\n\nUsing the capacitance for a parallel plate capacitor, the force is:\n\nformula_3\n\nformula_4 = applied electric potential, \nformula_5 = relative permittivity of dielectric, \nformula_6 = permittivity of free space (8.85 pF/m),\nformula_7 = total number of fingers on both sides of electrodes, \nformula_8 = thickness in the out of plane direction of the electrodes, \nformula_9 = gap between electrodes.\n\n• rows of interlocking teeth\n• half fixed\n• half part of movable assembly\n• electrically isolated\n• electrostatic attraction/ repulsion\n– CMOS drive voltage\n• many teeth increased force\n– typically 10μm long and strong\n\nComb drives cannot scale to large gap distances (equivalently actuation distance), since development of effective forces at large gaps distances would require high voltages—therefore limited by electrical breakdown. More importantly, limitations imposed by gap distance limits the actuation distance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092836", "title": "National Association of Independent Schools", "text": "National Association of Independent Schools\n\nThe National Association of Independent Schools (NAIS) is a U.S.-based membership organization for private, nonprofit, K-12 schools. Founded in 1963, NAIS represents independent schools and associations in the United States, including day, boarding, and day/boarding schools; elementary and secondary schools; boys', girls', and coeducational schools. NAIS has affiliate members internationally as well.\n\nNAIS's mission is to be the national voice of independent schools and the center for collective action on their behalf.\n\nAs of the 2010-11 school year, NAIS represented approximately 1,400 member independent schools and associations in the US, serving more than 562,000 students and 121,000 teachers, administrators, and other staff.\n\nMembership in NAIS is open to independent pre-college schools that are operated by nonprofit organizations. To become a full member of NAIS, a school must have operated for at least five years and must be accredited by an accrediting organization approved by NAIS.\n\nIn response to requests from several state, regional, and national accrediting organizations, the NAIS Commission on Accreditation was established by the NAIS Board of Trustees in 2001 and convened for the first time in 2002. The 19 member Commission's work was intended to assure the quality of independent school accrediting programs.\n\nA primary responsibility of the Commission was to developing a public understanding of, and credibility for, state and regional accrediting programs. In addition, the Commission,\n\n\nThe Commission met on a regular basis and was guided by established operating protocols. It was composed of members from state and regional accrediting associations that were members of NAIS as well as at-large members, and NAIS Board members.\n\nThe member associations of the Commission were accountable to one another through a process patterned on the independent school accreditation model. Over the course of a 10-year cycle, associations prepared a self-study demonstrating compliance with the Criteria for Effective Independent School Accreditation Practices. The criteria provided common ground for member associations by delineating best practices, policies, and procedures. In addition, associations used Model Core Standards — a set of “ideal” standards — in assessing their own standards. As part of the process of “accrediting the accreditors”, each member association hosted a visit from other Commissioners, received written recommendations from the Commission, and engaged in follow-up activities designed to improve the state or regional accreditation process. As with school accreditation, this served two purposes: institutional improvement and quality assurance. After several years of planning to create a new, international organization, the NAIS Commission on Accreditation disbanded in 2018. The successor organization, the International Council Advancing Independent School Accreditation (ICAISA), began formal operations in 2018 as an independent 501(c)(3) organization.\n\nEach member associations was determined to be in compliance with the following:\n\n\nThe following are state, regional, and international accrediting organizations that were members of the NAIS Commission on Accreditation and became founding members of the International Council Advancing Independent School Accreditation (ICAISA):\n\nState Accrediting Associations\n\nRegional, National and International Accrediting Associations\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092837", "title": "Renfrew (district)", "text": "Renfrew (district)\n\nRenfrew District () was one of nineteen local government districts in the Strathclyde region of Scotland, which existed between 1975 and 1996.\n\nThe district was formed by the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1973 from part of the former county of Renfrewshire, namely:\n\nThe remaining parts of the former County of Renfrew (Renfrewshire) where then divided between two other districts: Eastwood and Inverclyde.\n\nIn 1996 Renfrew District was abolished under the provisions of the Local Government etc. (Scotland) Act 1994. Most of its area became the unitary council area of Renfrewshire, with the regions - such as Strathclyde - disappearing entirely. Barrhead, Neilston and Uplawmoor were included in the council area of East Renfrewshire, which mainly consisted of the former Eastwood District.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092847", "title": "Thomas Myddelton (younger)", "text": "Thomas Myddelton (younger)\n\nSir Thomas Myddelton (1586 – 1666) of Chirk Castle, in the County of Denbigh, Wales, was a politician and Parliamentary general.\n\nHe was the son of Sir Thomas Myddelton, Lord Mayor of London, by his first wife, Hester Saltonstall, daughter of Sir Richard Saltonstall, Lord Mayor of London.\n\nHe matriculated at Queen's College, Oxford, on 22 February 1605, and became a student at Gray's Inn in 1607. He was knighted on 10 February 1617, and was Member of Parliament for Weymouth and Melcombe Regis, 1624–25, and for the County of Denbigh in 1625 and 1640–1648.\n\nDuring the Civil War he became prominent as Sergeant Major General of the Parliamentary forces in North Wales. In the summer of 1642 he was sent to his constituency to exercise his influence on behalf of the Parliament, and accordingly, in December 1642, he addressed to his countrymen a letter with strong advice to submit to and assist Parliament. By the king's order, Colonel Ellis of Gwesnewydd, near Wrexham, seized Myddelton's residence, Chirk Castle, in his absence in January 1643. A garrison was placed there under Sir John Watts.\n\nBy a parliamentary ordinance, dated 11 June 1643, Myddelton, who had by that time returned to London, was appointed Sergeant-Major-General for North Wales. On 10 August he reached Nantwich in Cheshire, where he was joined by Sir William Brereton, 1st Baronet. They proceeded on 4 September to Market Drayton, and on 11 September to Wem, which they seized, garrisoned, and made their Shropshire headquarters. While they were still engaged in fortifying Wem, Arthur Capell, 1st Baron Capell of Hadham, with reinforcements from Staffordshire, marched on Nantwich, but was defeated outside Wem in two separate conflicts, on 17 and 18 October. After this victory Brereton and Myddelton left Nantwich on 7 November, were joined at Stretton by Sir George Booth with troops from Lancashire, and crossing the River Dee at Holt, entered North Wales, where Wrexham, Hawarden, Flint, Mostyn, Mold, and Holywell were taken. But all these place were given up quickly after the landing at Mostyn on 18 November of about 2,500 royalist soldiers from Ireland, and the leaders were criticised. Myddelton's troops were militiamen, while his opponents were trained soldiers.\n\nIn February 1644 Myddelton's command in North Wales was confirmed by a fresh commission. He left London about the end of May 1644, and marched to Nantwich, and thence to Knutsford, where a muster of all the Cheshire forces was intended, against Prince Rupert and Lancashire. But about 4,000 royalists laid siege to Oswestry. Myddelton hurried there before the arrival of his colleagues, and raised the siege on 2 July. Returning to Nantwich, Myddelton for some time watched Prince Rupert's movements, making occasional raids into Montgomeryshire. On 4 September he captured the garrison at Newtown, and the same day advanced to Montgomery, and without any resistance Montgomery Castle was surrendered to him by its owner, Edward Herbert, 1st Baron Herbert of Cherbury. Sir Michael Ernely, who was in command of the royalist forces at Shrewsbury, marched upon Montgomery to recover it. Myddelton sallied out to collect provisions but Ernely intercepted his return, and defeated him outside the town. Myddelton's foot-soldiers, under Colonel Thomas Mytton, succeeded in re-entering the castle, which Ernely at once besieged; but Myddelton retired to Oswestry, and after obtaining reinforcements from Lancashire returned, accompanied by Brereton and Sir William Fairfax. They arrived on 17 September in sight of Montgomery, where the whole strength of both parties in North Wales and the borders was now assembled. After a desperate conflict, in which Fairfax was mortally wounded, the parliamentarians completely routed their opponents.\n\nMyddelton was left for a time in command at Montgomery, but after the capture of Powis Castle on 3 October the county generally declared for Parliament, and Myddelton was therefore able to turn to Shrewsbury, where he captured most of the outposts, and blocked the passages to the town. On 2 November 1644, Myddleton marched with his troops on Machynlleth. As they passed Mathafarn, they were ambushed by a Royalist force led by Rowland Pugh. Pugh was defeated and in retaliation, Myddleton burned Mathafarn to the ground on 29 November 1644.\n\nMyddelton appeared on 21 December 1644 before his own residence of Chirk Castle, still held by Sir John Watts, who after a three days' siege was able to write on Christmas Day to Prince Rupert that he had beaten Myddelton off.\n\nBy the self-denying ordinance Myddelton was superseded and the command was transferred to his second wife's brother-in-law, Colonel Thomas Mytton. When, however, there was a general reaction in the county in favour of the king in 1648, Myddelton was one of the persons to whom the principal inhabitants of Flintshire and Denbighshire, in their fidelity to parliament, entrusted the management of their county affairs. However, he disapproved of the king's trial, and was excluded from Parliament in 1649. On 14 May 1651 Myddelton was ordered by the council of state to enter into a bond of £10,000 for his general good behaviour, and having received the security it was further ordered on 16 May that the garrison should be withdrawn from his house.\n\nIn 1659 he joined the Cheshire Rising led by George Booth, and proclaimed Charles II as king in Wrexham market place. As a result, General John Lambert besieged Chirk Castle, after defeating Booth. He compelled Myddelton to surrender on 24 August 1659. Myddelton and his brothers were given notice to quit the country.\n\nAt the Restoration of the Monarchy Sir Thomas is said to have received £60,000 in compensation and his son was made a baronet as Sir Thomas Myddelton, 1st Baronet of Chirk Castle.\n\nHe married twice:\n\n"}
{"id": "2092848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092848", "title": "Ricochet (Teresa Brewer song)", "text": "Ricochet (Teresa Brewer song)\n\n\"Ricochet\" (sometimes rendered \"Rick-o-Shay\" and also as \"Ricochet Romance\") is a popular song. The credits show it to be written by Larry Coleman, Joe Darion, and Norman Gimbel, without apportioning the work on the lyrics and music, in 1953. In fact, since Coleman and Darion wrote \"Changing Partners\" the same year, with Darion as lyricist and Coleman as composer, while Gimbel wrote the English lyric for \"Sway\" the same year, it can be concluded that Coleman wrote the music and Darion and Gimbel the lyrics.\n\nIt was included in a 1954 movie, \"Ricochet Romance.\"\n\nThe best-known version was recorded by Teresa Brewer on July 10, 1953 and released by Coral Records as catalog number 61043, peaking at #2 on the Billboard charts in 1953. The flip side was Too Young to Tango. Ricochet is one of the songs Teresa Brewer rerecorded in 1962 for her Philips label Greatest Hits album, with a new Nashville arrangement.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the most popular version was by Joan Regan, and other versions were done by Alma Cogan and Billie Anthony.\n\nA comical version of the song is sung on the Season 4 (1955) episode of \"I Love Lucy\" (\"Tennessee Bound\") by \"Teensy\" and \"Weensy,\" portrayed by the \"Borden Twins\" (sisters Marilyn and Rosalyn Borden).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092857", "title": "Unified combatant command", "text": "Unified combatant command\n\nA unified combatant command (UCC) is a command of the United States Armed Forces that is composed of units from at least two service branches and has a broad and continuing mission. These commands are established to provide effective command and control of U.S. military forces, regardless of branch of service, in peace and war. They are organized either on a geographical basis (known as \"area of responsibility\", AOR) or on a functional basis, such as special operations, power projection, or transport. UCCs are \"joint\" commands with specific badges denoting their affiliation.\n\nThe creation and organization of the unified combatant commands is legally mandated in Title 10, U.S. Code Sections 161–168.\n\nThe Unified Command Plan (UCP) establishes the missions, command responsibilities, and geographic areas of responsibility of the unified combatant commands. As of August 2019, there are eleven unified combatant commands. Seven have regional responsibilities, and four have functional responsibilities. Each time the Unified Command Plan is updated, the organization of the combatant commands is reviewed for military efficiency and efficacy, as well as alignment with national policy.\n\nEach unified command is led by a combatant commander (CCDR), who is a four-star general or admiral. CCDRs exercise combatant command (COCOM), a specific type of nontransferable command authority over assigned forces, regardless of branch of service, that is vested only in the CCDRs by federal law in . The chain of command for operational purposes (per the Goldwater–Nichols Act) goes from the President through the Secretary of Defense to the combatant commanders.\n\nThe current system of unified commands in the U.S. military emerged during World War II with the establishment of geographic theaters of operation composed of forces from multiple service branches that reported to a single commander who was supported by a joint staff. A unified command structure also existed to coordinate British and U.S. military forces operating under the Combined Chiefs of Staff, which was composed of the British Chiefs of Staff Committee and the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff.\n\nIn the European Theater, Allied military forces fell under the command of the Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force (SHAEF). After SHAEF was dissolved at the end of the war, the American forces were unified under a single command, the US Forces, European Theater (USFET), commanded by General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower. Unified commands in the Pacific Theater proved more difficult to organize as neither General of the Army Douglas MacArthur nor Fleet Admiral Chester W. Nimitz was willing to become subordinate to the other.\n\nThe Joint Chiefs of Staff continued to advocate in favor of establishing permanent unified commands, and President Harry S. Truman approved the first plan on 14 December 1946. Known as the \"Outline Command Plan,\" it would become the first in a series of Unified Command Plans. The original \"Outline Command Plan\" of 1946 established seven unified commands: Far East Command, Pacific Command, Alaskan Command, Northeast Command, the U.S. Atlantic Fleet, Caribbean Command, and European Command. However, on 5 August 1947, the CNO recommended instead that CINCLANTFLT be established as a fully unified commander under the broader title of Commander in Chief, Atlantic (CINCLANT). The Army and Air Force objected, and CINCLANTFLT was activated as a unified command on 1 November 1947. A few days later, the CNO renewed his suggestion for the establishment of a unified Atlantic Command. This time his colleagues withdrew their objections, and on 1 December 1947, the U.S. Atlantic Command (LANTCOM) was created under the Commander in Chief, Atlantic (CINCLANT).\n\nUnder the original plan, each of the unified commands operated with one of the service chiefs (the Chief of Staff of the Army or Air Force, or the Chief of Naval Operations) serving as an executive agent representing the Joint Chiefs of Staff. This arrangement was formalized on 21 April 1948 as part of a policy paper titled the \"Function of the Armed Forces and the Joint Chiefs of Staff\" (informally known as the \"Key West Agreement\"). The responsibilities of the unified commands were further expanded on 7 September 1948 when the commanders' authority was extended to include the coordination of the administrative and logistical functions in addition to their combat responsibilities.\n\nFar East Command and U.S. Northeast Command were disestablished under the Unified Command Plan of 1956–1957.\n\nA 1958 \"reorganization in National Command Authority relations with the joint commands\" with a \"direct channel\" to unified commands such as Continental Air Defense Command (CONAD) was effected after President Dwight Eisenhower expressed concern about nuclear command and control. CONAD itself was disestablished in 1975.\n\nAlthough not part of the original plan, the Joint Chiefs of Staff also created specified commands that had broad and continuing missions but were composed of forces from only one service. Examples include the U.S. Naval Forces, Eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean and the U.S. Air Force's Strategic Air Command. Like the unified commands, the specified commands reported directly to the JCS instead of their respective service chiefs. These commands have not existed since the Strategic Air Command was disestablished in 1992. The relevant section of federal law, however, remains unchanged, and the President retains the power to establish a new specified command.\n\nThe Goldwater–Nichols Defense Reorganization Act of 1986 clarified and codified responsibilities that commanders-in-chief (CINCs) undertook, and which were first given legal status in 1947. After that act, CINCs reported directly to the United States Secretary of Defense, and through him to the President of the United States.\n\nThe U.S. Atlantic Command became the Joint Forces Command in the 1990s after the Soviet threat to the North Atlantic had disappeared and the need rose for an integrating and experimentation command for forces in the continental United States. Joint Forces Command was disbanded on 3 August 2011 and its components placed under the Joint Staff and other combatant commands. \n\nOn 24 October 2002, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld announced that in accordance with Title 10 of the US Code (USC), the title of \"Commander-in-Chief\" would thereafter be reserved for the President, consistent with the terms of Article II of the United States Constitution. Thereafter, the military CINCs would be known as \"combatant commanders\", as heads of the unified combatant commands.\n\nA sixth geographical unified command, United States Africa Command (USAFRICOM), was approved and established in 2007 for Africa. It operated under U.S. European Command as a sub-unified command during its first year, and transitioned to independent Unified Command Status in October 2008. In 2009, it focused on synchronizing hundreds of activities inherited from three regional commands that previously coordinated U.S. military relations in Africa.\n\nPresident Donald Trump announced on 18 August 2017 that the United States Cyber Command (USCYBERCOM) would be elevated to the status of a unified combatant command from a sub-unified command. It was also announced that the separation of the command from the NSA would be considered. USCYBERCOM was elevated on 4 May 2018.\n\nVice President Mike Pence announced on 18 December 2018 that President Donald Trump had issued a memorandum ordering the stand-up of a United States Space Command (USSPACECOM). A previous unified combantant command for unified space operations was decommissioned in 2002. The new USSPACECOM will include \"(1) all the general responsibilities of a Unified Combatant Command; (2) the space-related responsibilities previously assigned to the Commander, United States Strategic Command; and (3) the responsibilities of Joint Force Provider and Joint Force Trainer for Space Operations Forces\". USSPACECOM was re-established on 29 August 2019.\n\nEach combatant command (CCMD, also COCOM) is headed by a four-star general or admiral (the CCDR) recommended by the Secretary of Defense, nominated for appointment by the President of the United States, confirmed by the Senate and commissioned, at the President's order, by the Secretary of Defense. The Goldwater–Nichols Act and its subsequent implementation legislation also resulted in specific Joint Professional Military Education (JPME) requirements for officers before they could attain flag or general officer rank thereby preparing them for duty in Joint assignments such as UCC staff or Joint Chiefs of Staff assignments, which are strictly controlled tour length rotations of duty. However, in the decades following enactment of Goldwater–Nichols, these JPME requirements have yet to come to overall fruition. This is particularly true in the case of senior naval officers, where sea duty / shore duty rotations and the culture of the naval service has often discounted PME and JPME as a measure of professional development for success. Although slowly changing, the JPME requirement still continues to be frequently waived in the case of senior admirals nominated for these positions.\n\nThe operational chain of command runs from the President to the Secretary of Defense to the combatant commanders of the combatant commands. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff may transmit communications to the Commanders of the combatant commands from the President and Secretary of Defense and advises both on potential courses of action, but the Chairman does not exercise military command over any combatant forces. Under Goldwater–Nichols, the service chiefs (also four stars in rank) are charged with the responsibility of the \"strategic direction, unified operation of combatant commands, and the integration of all land, naval, and air forces in an efficient \"unified combatant command\" force. Furthermore, the Secretaries of the Military Departments (i.e. Secretary of the Army, Secretary of the Navy, and the Secretary of the Air Force) are legally responsible to \"organize, train and equip\" combatant forces and, as directed by the Secretary of Defense, assign their forces for use by the combatant commands. The Secretaries of the Military Departments thus exercise administrative control (ADCON) rather than operational control (OPCON—the prerogative of the combatant commander) over their forces.\n\nEach combatant command can be led by a generalor flag officer from any of the military services.\n\nA sub-unified command, or, subordinate unified command, may be established by combatant commanders when authorized to do so by the Secretary of Defense or the president. They are created to conduct a portion of the mission or tasking of their parent geographic or functional command. Sub-unified commands may be either functional or geographic, and the commanders of sub-unified commands exercise authority similar to that of combatant commanders.\n\nExamples of current and former sub-unified commands are the Alaskan Command (ALCOM) under USNORTHCOM, the United States Forces Korea (USFK) under USINDOPACOM, and United States Forces—Afghanistan (USFOR-A) under USCENTCOM.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092862", "title": "Miguel Ángel Russo", "text": "Miguel Ángel Russo\n\nMiguel Ángel Russo (born 9 April 1956) is an Argentine former football player and manager, who played as a midfielder.\n\nRusso was a one club man; he played his entire career for Estudiantes de La Plata, from 1975 to his retirement in 1988. A defensive midfielder, Russo was a staple of the team that won two back-to-back championships in the 1982–83 season.\n\nAlthough Russo was called on by national team coach Carlos Bilardo to play in the 1986 FIFA World Cup qualifiers, a string of minor injuries prevented him from traveling to the main event in Mexico, which Argentina ultimately won.\n\nHis career as a coach included stints at Estudiantes de La Plata and Lanús (both of whom he helped promote), and other sides in Argentina, Mexico, Chile, and Spain.\n\nIn June 2005, he won the 2005 Clausura tournament with Vélez Sarsfield, his first title as a coach in the Argentine top division. On 15 December 2006, he was signed by Boca Juniors to replace Ricardo La Volpe.\n\nWith Russo at the helm, Boca Juniors took second place in the 2007 Clausura tournament and won the 2007 Copa Libertadores. After Boca, Russo managed San Lorenzo de Almagro between 2008 and 2009. After losing to San Luis and being eliminated form the Copa Libertadores, the coach has announced his decision to resign on 9 April 2009.\n\nOn 15 April 2009, Russo joined Rosario Central, replacing Reinaldo Merlo and just two months later on 14 July 2009 the coach quit the team.\n\nThe former midfielder then managed Racing Club between 2010 and 2011. On 21 June 2011, less than a week after resigning as coach of Racing Club, Russo signed a contract to again coach his former club, Estudiantes de La Plata, being his second stint as an Estudiantes coach, having done so in 1994.\n\nOn 6 November 2011, after Estudiantes was defeated 1-3 by Godoy Cruz and in turn falling to last place with only 10 points in 14 games, Russo resigned as manager, less than 5 months after having assumed charge. He then had a successful stint at Rosario Central, winning the 2012–13 Primera B Nacional and reaching the final of the 2013–14 Copa Argentina.\n\nIn 2015, Russo agreed to become manager of Vélez Sarsfield, his second spell at the club.\n\nOn 23 December 2016, he was chosen to train Millonarios F.C. from Bogotá, Colombia after the untimely departure of Diego Cocca. On 17 December 2017, he was crowned Champion of the second half of 2017 with Millonarios F.C. (Torneo Clausura), to which he gave them the title number 15 after winning the first leg 1-0, and then drawing 2-2 against Independiente Santa Fe. With this victory, Millonarios F.C. will go directly to the group stage of the Copa Libertadores played among the best club teams in South America.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092864", "title": "Devon Soltendieck", "text": "Devon Soltendieck\n\nDevon Soltendieck is a Canadian television entertainment reporter. He has been a MuchMusic VJ, and from early 2010 until January 2013 an anchor and reporter on CP24.\n\nSoltendieck attended a summer school for two months in Villars, Switzerland. He returned to Canada to finish high school and graduated from Selwyn House School in Westmount, Quebec, then from Dawson College CEGEP. While a student at Dawson, Soltendieck helped run the school newspaper. Before he was hired by MuchMusic, Soltendieck was a student of Economics and Political Science at Concordia University and continued his education in Finance at the University of Toronto thereafter. Soltendieck is a professionally trained violinist and horn player and has taught himself to play guitar and percussion. He is fluently bilingual in English and French.\n\nSoltendieck's career began in 2004, when he won MuchMusic's VJ Search competition at the age of 18. He was first awarded a three-month contract and went on to work for the station for six years. As a VJ, Soltendieck was part of the MuchNews team, interviewing numerous celebrities and covering current events. Soltendieck also briefly appeared in the movie \"Fantastic Four\", as a MuchMusic reporter. He was voted one of \"TV Guide\"'s \"Top 10 Stars on the Verge of a Major Breakout\" in March 2005.\n\nSoltendieck joined the news team at CP24 in 2010 as an anchor and remote host. He ended his run in 2013.\n\nSoltendieck joined \"Etalk\" on August 21, 2013 until November 22, 2018.\n\nStarting November 2013, Soltendieck hosted a short-lived game show \"Pop Quiz\" on the E! Canada entertainment network.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092868", "title": "Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane", "text": "Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane\n\nFerrovie dello Stato Italiane S.p.A. (previously Ferrovie dello Stato), () is a state-owned holding company that manages infrastructure and services on the Italian rail network.\n\nOne of the subsidiaries of the company, Trenitalia, is the main rail operator in Italy, and another, TrainOSE, is a rail operator in Greece.\n\nFerrovie dello Stato (State Railways) was instituted by an act on 22 April 1905, taking control over the majority of the national railways, which up until that time were privately owned and managed. The president was nominated by the government. The first Director General was Riccardo Bianchi.\n\nWith the rise of Fascism, a centralization policy was carried out. The board of directors and chief administrator office were abolished at the end of 1922. The institution was administered by a commissioner, appointed by the King until April 1924.\nSince then, Ferrovie dello Stato was managed by the newly born Ministry of Communications (including rail transport), under Costanzo Ciano.\n\nAfter the armistice on 8 September 1943, Italy was divided and train operations were separately directed too, with headquarters in Salerno for the south and Verona for the north. At the end of 1944, the Ministry of Communications was split and the new Ministry of Transport was created, including the general management of Ferrovie dello Stato, and in 1945, the company was renamed \"Azienda Autonoma delle Ferrovie dello Stato\".\n\nThe period after World War II was particularly tough for Ferrovie dello Stato, since most of the Italian rail network was severely damaged and the rolling stock was obsolete. The network was rebuilt almost entirely by 1952. Since then, a period of renewal started. New trains were introduced, among them the ETR 300, and many sections of the national network were electrified and sometimes doubled.\n\nIn 1957, the new ALn 442/448 multiple unit was introduced, greatly reducing travel time on the Italian network. During these years, the rolling stock was generally renewed and expanded with the mass construction of electrical and diesel multiple units, like the Ale 883, ALe 840 and ALn 772.\nThe FS ALn 668 diesel multiple unit was introduced in 1956.\nIn the following years, 3 MU out of 4 were \"668\", which replaced many older units.\nMany electrical multiple units were also introduced during this period, like the ALe 601, progenitor of the Ale 801/940 and ALe 803 EMU, still in use today on regional service.\n\nDuring the 1970s, electronic cars were first introduced on the Italian network, starting with the G.A.I. trains for regional and metropolitan service.\n\nThe new E.444 was the first attempt on high-speed rail, with a top speed of .\nThe ETR 401 (1976) was the first prototype of the new Pendolino class. Following other network improvements, works for the first Italian high-speed rail line started in these years.\nThe Direttissima line from Florence to Rome was partially opened in 1986 and concluded in 1992. In 1986, trains were travelling the line at , surpassing for the first time the previous maximum limit of 180 km/h on the Italian network. In 1988, the ETR 450 Pendolino was travelling regularly at , today's top speed on the line. The line was the fastest in Europe after the French TGV lines.\n\nThe old logo was renewed in 1982 and again in 1994, with the introduction of the \"XMPR\" livery.\n\nThe \"FS\" was left unchanged in its administrative structure until the end of 1985. From the following year, after 80 years, the \"Azienda Autonoma delle Ferrovie dello Stato\" was replaced by a new company, \"Ferrovie dello Stato\".\n\nThe newly born \"Ferrovie dello Stato\" underwent major structural transformations between 1986 and 1992. The workforce was reduced to half: from 216,310 employees in 1988 to 112,018 in 1999. Divisions were created to rationalize the management.\nThe company was privatized in 1992 with the creation of the new Ferrovie dello Stato SpA, a joint-stock company, following a European guideline. However, the privatization was only nominal, since shares were still owned by the Italian Government.\n\nOn 1 June 2000, the company's two main divisions, service and infrastructure, were separated and two different independent companies were created: Trenitalia, responsible for transport service, and Rete Ferroviaria Italiana, responsible for the management of the rail infrastructure. Both companies were still subsidiaries of Ferrovie dello Stato Holding SpA.\nIn 2011 Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane bought the German Netinera.\n\nIn July 2016 Busitalia (part of Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane) purchased the Dutch company Qbuzz.\nIn February 2017 Trenitalia bought from National Express the British Train operating company c2c.\nIn September 2017, an agreement to buy 100% of TrainOSE (the Greek railways) for €45 million was signed.\n\nTrenitalia is the most important subsidiary of the company, as it manages all the trains of the company group. Trenitalia is the primary train operator in Italy. It was established in 2000 following a European Union directive on the deregulation of rail transport.\n\nOther company subsidiaries include TrainOSE, the sole operator for passenger and freight services in Greece, which is under the company's management since 2017, Busitalia, Centostazioni, Fercredit, Ferservizi, FS Logistica, FS Sistemi Urbani, Grandi Stazioni, Italferr, Netinera, Rete Ferroviaria Italiana, which manages the infrastructure of the Italian rail network, and Mercitalia, the group's freight operations subsidiary, founded in 2017\n\nFerrovie dello Stato Italiane owns and operates a ferry service for rail trains connecting the mainland to Sicily, crossing the Strait of Messina.\nThey carry InterCity, InterCityNotte and goods wagon by means of ferry boats.\n\nUntil 2009 there was another ferry service for freight transport, which was activated in 1961 to connect the continent to the Sardinia, between Civitavecchia and Golfo Aranci.\nSince 2010, after the regular service has been suspended, there is an on-call service for Messina Marittima and Villa San Giovanni Mare railway station|Villa San Giovanni Mare.\n\nThe former company CEOs were: Lorenzo Necci (1989–1996), Giancarlo Cimoli (1996–2004), Elio Catania (2004–2006), Mauro Moretti (2006–2014), Michele Mario Elia (2014–2015), and Renato Mazzoncini (2015–2017).\n\nFerrovie dello Stato Italiane has been sentenced by the Italian authorities for the 29 June 2009 accident in Viareggio, Italy, where 32 passengers died.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092883", "title": "Thomas Myddelton (Lord Mayor of London)", "text": "Thomas Myddelton (Lord Mayor of London)\n\nSir Thomas Myddelton (1550 – 12 August 1631) was the fourth son of Richard Myddelton, Governor of Denbigh, and Jane Dryhurst.\n\nAs a youth, he was apprenticed to a grocer in London, and made his fortune in trade. He divided his time between London and Wales, and purchased Chirk Castle in 1595 for £5,000.\n\nHe was a member of the Grocers' Company, a Member of Parliament for the City of London and a founder member of the East India Company, Sheriff of London in 1604 and Lord Mayor of London in 1613. His brother, Sir Hugh Myddleton, was instrumental in the creation of the New River which supplied London with fresh water from 1613.\n\nHe married four times. By his first wife Hester, a daughter of Sir Richard Saltonstall, he was the father of Thomas Myddelton of Chirk Castle. His younger son, Timothy, inherited his estates in Essex. By his third marriage he gained a stepson, Miles Hobart.\n\nAlong with Rowland Heylyn, Myddelton financed the publication of a Welsh language Bible suitable for everyday use.\n"}
{"id": "2092884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092884", "title": "Chjeno-Piast", "text": "Chjeno-Piast\n\nChjeno-Piast was an unofficial (yet common) name of a coalition of Polish political parties formed in 1923. It included the Polish People's Party \"Piast\" and an older coalition 1922 Christian Association of National Unity (\"Chrześcijański Związek Jedności Narodowej\"). The merger was passed during a meeting in the manor of senator L. Hammerling's from Lanckorona and at times it is referred to as Pact of Lanckorona.\n\nThe Chjeno-Piast coalition was the political base of two consecutive governments formed by Wincenty Witos. The first, formed in May 1923, antagonized Józef Piłsudski, who resigned his government posts blaming Chjeno-Piast for assassination of Gabriel Narutowicz. This government was forced to resign in December of that year in the effect of massive worker riots in Kraków. The second, formed in May 1926, had even less support and was soon overthrown by the May Coup organized by Józef Piłsudski.\n\nThe first part of the name of the coalition (being an abbreviation of \"Chrześcijańska Jedność Narodowa\") resembles the Polish word \"hiena\", meaning hyena.\n"}
{"id": "2092885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092885", "title": "Vrata", "text": "Vrata\n\nVrata is a Sanskrit word that means \"vow, resolve, devotion\", and refers to pious observances such as fasting and pilgrimage (Tirtha) found in Indian religions such as Jainism and Hinduism. It is typically accompanied with prayers seeking health and happiness for their loved ones.\n\nVrata (Sanskrit: व्रत) means \"vow, resolve, devotion\", and refers to the practice of austerity, particularly in matters related to foods and drinks by people in Hindu and Jaina culture, as part of a pious observance or prayers seeking health, fertility, long life or happiness for her loved ones.\n\nDerived from the root \"‘vr’\" (\"will, rule, restrain, conduct, choose, select\"), the word is found over 200 times in the Rigveda. It is also found in other Vedic literature including the Upanishads, but the context suggests that the meaning of the word in the Vedic era was not as a personal pious observance, and instead was related to ṛta and dharma, in the sense of inner principles and universal laws that keep order in the cosmos. Every man's vocation, as in hymn 9.112.1 of the Rigveda, is called his \"Vrata\". Thus, whatever profession one is devoted to, resolves to do his best in, is deemed \"Vrata\" in the Vedic literature. The act of sacrifice, in another context such as in hymn 1.93.8 of the Rigveda, is also called a \"Vrata\".\nThe post-Vedic texts use the term as a form of self-imposed restrictions on food and behavior, sometimes with a vow. The concept evolves as a form of religious votive rite, personalized and interiorized, one that does not need a public ceremony or a private one, but that is privately observed. Its meaning retains a sense of personal sacrifice (fast, or restricted diet), in exchange for hope, accompanied with a prayer to a personally defined or cherished divinity, and propelled by the wish for the well being of one's loved ones. The Grihya-sutras (domestic life manuals), the Puranas and the epics describe the practice particularly in the context of Vedic students, brahmins, and women, as \"devotion, solemn vow, holy practice, resolve, dedication\".\n\n\"Vrata\" is a religious votive rite, a vow often involving abstinence from food, particularly common with women. It may be accompanied with elaborate prayers, other rites such as charity or visit to a temple, sometimes observed during festivals or with sanskara (rite of passage) ceremonies. It is found in ancient Hindu texts such as the Vedas, but in a fluid context that is not in the sense of pious observances.\n\nThe Hindu Upanishads conceptualize \"Vrata\" as an ethical and behavioral discipline process, one where food is respected, the needy helped, the stranger welcomed, the student carries on the pursuit of knowledge. The Puranas link the practice to the empowering concept of Shakti of a woman, while the Dharmasastras link the practice to one possible form of penance through the concept of Prāyaścitta for both men and women.\n\nA \"vrata\" is a personal practice, typically involves no priest, but may involve personal prayer, chanting, reading of spiritual texts, social get together of friends and family, or silent meditation.\n\nA \"Vrata\" may be motivated by many factors and is observed by both genders, but far more often by women. The most common are temporal wishes, such as the speedy recovery of a sick child, success or happiness for a loved one, fertility, ward off negativity or dangers, make prayers and good wishes for someone departing for a distant place. In the case of women, the prayers are usually on behalf of brother(s), children or husband, but sometimes for her own prosperity, mind-body balance and health.\n\nSociologists who have interviewed women who observe Vrata report that the practice is explained, according to Anne Pearson, as something that gives \"peace of mind\", that she has made an effort to the best of her abilities and out of duty towards those important to her in her life, she has a sense of contentment in her heart and intellect, and thus she feels she has achieved something. It is also an expression of care and love, a reminder of ethical principles of the Hindu traditions.\n\nA Vrata is sometimes a result of voluntary vow or part of practice by a brahmacharya (student) or grihastha (householders) that they feel as obligatory before or during certain spiritual or religious practice. Utsavas, or religious festivals, share some elements with vratas, incorporating the practice of restraining food and similar austerity, as a part of the festive observance. Some \"Vrats\" are for religious (dharma) or soteriological goals (moksha), some are for nonreligious reasons, some celebration of one's cultural tradition, and others are a form of quid pro quo sacrifice to get or give divine help to someone.\n\nAnother reason for observing Vratas is the belief that they are a form of sorry, self-correction, penance and expiatory (prāyaścitta). Vratas are discussed as a means to prāyaścitta in Dharmasastra texts. Many prāyaścitta vratas in these texts suggest it include the feeding of \"Brahmins, blind, poor and helpless\", as well as other acts of charity. However, a Vrata can consist of many different activities. Other examples of Vrata activity include fasting, burning incense sticks, prayers before a deity, meditating and such activities. The śmrtis go into great detail on the subject of vratas, discussing even the details pertaining to what type of flowers should be used in worship.\n\nMen and women, state the Dharmashastras and the Puranas, can expiate their sins through the use of vratas. For prāyaścitta, the \"Vratas\" are the second most discussed method in the Puranas, after the Tirtha.\n\nA \"Vrata\" is observed either as an independent private ritual at a date of one's choice, as part of a particular ceremony such as wedding, or as a part of a major festival such as Diwali (Lakshmi, festival of lights), Shivaratri (Shiva), Navratri (Durga or Rama), Ekadashi (Krishna, Vishnu avatars).\n\nA typical Vrata involves a fast for a fixed period of time, usually a full day, where either no food is eaten, or only one meal is eaten in the entire day, or only a certain food such as milk is consumed during the period of the Vrata. Other observances include sleeping on the ground or a short sleep, or alternatively yoga with meditation, reading scripture and charitable giving (dāna).\n\nSome Vratas are more elaborate, such as those associated with major festivals or tirtha or rite of passage ceremonies, involving weeks of preparation, the drawing of \"Vrata mandala\" from various colored grain flour, wall decoration, cleaning of the house, special bath and festive dress, charity, a visit to a Hindu temple for a darśana of the inner sanctum or puja within one's home. In Nepal, Hindus visit Pashupatinatha temple for example, families light lamps on \"Balacaturdasi\" on a winter night and then set them afloat in Bagamati river next morning, followed by strewing grains for birds. Kane lists hundreds of Vrata found in Hindu texts.\n\nThe puranas denote various types of vratas, such as,\n\nA vrata may also be classified by its time period, such as Vrata for a day is a \"dina-vrata\", a \"paksha\" (week or fortnight) is a \"vaara-vrata\" or a \"paksha-vrata\".\n\nIt consists of complete fasting without drinking water. Hence, it is called Nirjala(Without water or waterless) vrata. Unlike normal(common) vratas in which consumption of fruits, juices, milk, water and sugar is allowed, the 'vrati' doesn't eat or drink anything at all (to purify their body). It is common in Hindu festivals such as Nirjala Ekadashi, and chhath.\n\nFive \"vrata-s\" (vows) are one of the codes of conduct for Jain householders. Any of the vows (vratas) that govern the activities of both monks and laymen. These are similar to the Yamas of yoga, and include the vow of ahimsa, satya, asteya, brahmacharya and aparigraha. Jainism also has seven supplementary vows, called the Shila-vratas, which suggest additional virtues.\n\nFasting is part of vrata observances in Jainism, and some involve congregational fasting at temples. Vrata among Jaina women may involve complete or partial fasting on certain specific days; a pilgrimage or tirtha to a particular place or places, as well as virtuous actions to others. Vrata is viewed as a form of austerity, with the power to remove karma from \"jiva\" (soul) and gain \"punya\" (merit).\n\nLaypersons aren't expected to observe these vows strictly. Once a layperson has gone through the preliminary stages of spiritual discipline (gunasthana), that person may promise to observe 12 vows for a stated period of time and may renew the pledge at the completion of that time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092899", "title": "Sa vz. 23", "text": "Sa vz. 23\n\nThe CZ Model 25 (properly, Sa 25 or Sa vz. 48b/samopal vz. 48b – \"samopal vzor 48 výsadkový\", \"submachine gun model year 1948 para\") was perhaps the best known of a series of Czechoslovak designed submachine guns introduced in 1948. There were four generally very similar submachine guns in this series: the Sa 23, Sa 24, Sa 25, and Sa 26. The primary designer was Jaroslav Holeček (1923–1977), chief engineer of the Česká zbrojovka Uherský Brod arms factory.\n\nThe Sa 23 series utilize a straightforward blowback action, with no locked breech, and fire from the open bolt position. They also use a progressive trigger for selecting between semi-automatic fire and fully automatic fire. Lightly pulling on the trigger will fire a single shot. Pulling the trigger farther to the rear in a continuous motion will fire fully automatically, until the trigger is released or the magazine is empty.\n\nThe Sa 23 series were submachine guns with a telescoping bolt, in which the forward part of the moving bolt extends forwards past the back end of the barrel, wrapping around that barrel. This feature reduces the required length of the submachine gun significantly and allows for better balance and handling. Handling was further improved by using a single vertical handgrip housing the magazine and trigger mechanism, roughly centered along the gun's length. The gun's receiver was machined from a single circular steel tube.\n\nThe design of the Sa 23 series submachine guns is most notable in the West for having inspired the open-bolt, blowback-operated, telescoping bolt design of the slightly later Uzi submachine gun.\n\nThe Sa 24 and Sa 26 were introduced after Czechoslovakia joined the Warsaw Pact, and were redesigned to fire 7.62×25mm Tokarev standard Soviet type pistol ammunition.\n\nThe Sa 23 and 25 models were used by Cuba during the 1960s and 70s, and some can be seen in photos of the Bay of Pigs invasion.\n\nAfter the Sa 25 was declared obsolete in 1968, many of the 9mm weapons were sold around the world. The surplus weapons were exported to other communist countries including North Vietnam. A somewhat-modified copy of the 9×19mm Parabellum model was produced in Rhodesia in the early 1970s as the LDP and given the nickname \"Rhogun\". Manufacture was later transferred to South Africa where it was briefly marketed as the Sanna 77 in semi-automatic fire only.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092905", "title": "Arda", "text": "Arda\n\nArda or ARDA may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092908", "title": "Lirone", "text": "Lirone\n\nThe lirone (or lira da gamba) is the bass member of the \"lira\" family of instruments that was popular in the late 16th and early 17th centuries. It is a bowed string instrument with between 9 and 16 gut strings and a fretted neck. When played, it is held between the legs in the manner of a cello or viol (viola da gamba).\n\nIt was used in italian operas and oratoriums to accompany the human voice, specially the gods. Because the lira da gambe can not play the bass, there must be a bass instrument, theorbo, harpsichord or viola da gamba. \n\nThe sources describe, that the instrument was used for the special sound, although it is an imperfect instrument. \n\nImportant is, to pay attention to the minor or major terz.\n\nThe \"Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians\" describes the lirone as essentially a larger version of the \"lira da braccio\", which has a similar wide fingerboard, flat bridge, and leaf-shaped pegbox with frontal pegs. Its flat bridge allows for the playing of chords of between three and five notes.\n\nThe \"lirone\" was primarily used in Italy during the late 16th and early 17th centuries (and particularly in the time of Claudio Monteverdi) to provide continuo, or harmony for the accompaniment of vocal music. It was frequently used in Catholic churches, particularly by Jesuits.\n\nDespite the resurgence in Baroque instrument performance during the 20th century, only a handful of musicians play the \"lirone\". Notable performers on the instrument include Erin Headley of England, Imke David (Weimar), Claas Harders and Hille Perl of Germany, Annalisa Pappano of the United States, Laura Vaughan of Australia, and Paulina van Laarhoven of the Netherlands.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092912", "title": "Marcelo Trobbiani", "text": "Marcelo Trobbiani\n\nMarcelo Antonio Trobbiani Ughetto (born 17 February 1955 in Casilda, Santa Fe) is an Argentine football coach and a former player, who played as an attacking midfielder. He currently works as the manager of River Ecuador in Ecuador.\n\nAn attacking midfielder, Trobbiani was one of the promising young stars to rise in Boca Juniors during the early 1970s. As a juvenile, he debuted in 1973 with the national team when Omar Sivori drafted him for the \"phantom squad\" that had to play Bolivia for a ticket to the 1974 World Cup. Following the exit of Reinaldo Merlo, he wore the national colours, before Boca's then coach Rogelio Domínguez was aware of his existence.\n\nIn 1975, Trobbiani shared Boca's midfield with Benítez, Suñé and Potente, and was criticized for hogging the ball, to the point that fans called him \"calesita\" (merry-go-round). After the 1976 season, Trobbiani was sold to Spain in 1976. Boca used the money to buy many players in the local market, starting a major winning streak with coach Juan Carlos Lorenzo.\n\nTrobbiani played for Spanish sides Elche and Real Zaragoza, and acquired European discipline and tactical depth. When he returned to play for Boca in 1981 alongside Diego Maradona, fans saw a more effective player. The team won the 1981 Metropolitano.\n\nIn mid-1982, Trobbiani was transferred to Estudiantes de La Plata. Coach Carlos Bilardo made Trobbiani play as a deep-lying centre-forward linking the strong midfield (Russo, Ponce and Sabella) to strikers Trama and Gottardi. The team won two back-to-back championships.\n\nBefore the 1986 World Cup in Mexico, Trobbiani was playing for Elche CF. National coach Bilardo called Trobbiani for the tournament, making it clear that he would mainly be used for tactical practice games. He worked tirelessly during the month-long stay in Mexico, where he was Jorge Valdano's roommate, and was rewarded with exactly two minutes of play—the last two minutes of the final match against Germany. His only touch of the ball was a back-heel pass.\n\nBefore retirement, Trobbiani showed his class at Chilean side Cobreloa, Ecuadorian side Barcelona SC (with whom he reached the Copa Libertadores finals in 1990) and back in Argentina with Talleres de Córdoba\n\nTrobbiani went on to coach several teams in South America, with little success. He was sacked from Universitario de Deportes from Peru at the end of 2004. Between 2006 and 2008, he worked as Russo's assistant coach at Boca Juniors, together with former teammate Gottardi.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2009 he returned to Chilean football to work as the manager of Cobreloa, where he played in the late 1980s. In 2009, he was appointed as the manager of Peruvian side Cienciano. On March 20, 2011 he was involved in a bitter dispute with fellow Argentine manager Guillermo Rivarola of Sporting Cristal after the ex-River player complained to the referee in order to get Trobbiani sent off.\nOn September 18, 2013, as coach of Sport Huancayo, he was accused of racism and discrimination by three Brazilian players, Rafael Da Silva, Andrey Nunes y Kleyr Vieira who play in the team.\n\nBoca Juniors\nEstudiantes (LP)\nCobreloa\nBarcelona (Ecu)\n\nArgentina\n\n"}
{"id": "2092913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092913", "title": "Furcraea foetida", "text": "Furcraea foetida\n\nFurcraea foetida (Giant Cabuya, Green-aloe or Mauritius-hemp) is a species of flowering plant native to the Caribbean and northern South America. It is widely cultivated and reportedly naturalized in many places (India, parts of Africa, Portugal, Australia, Thailand, Florida, and many oceanic islands)\n\n\"Furcraea foetida\" is an evergreen perennial subshrub, stemless or with a short stem up to 1 m tall. The leaves are sword-shaped, 1-1.8 m long and 10–15 cm broad at their widest point, narrowing to 6–7 cm broad at the leaf base, and to a sharp spine tip at the apex; the margins are entire or with a few hooked spines. The flowers are greenish to creamy white, 4 cm long, and strongly scented; they are produced on a large inflorescence up to 7.5 m tall.\n\nThe plant is cultivated in subtropical and tropical regions for products and as an ornamental plant for gardens. Its leaves are used to produce a natural fiber similar to sisal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092916", "title": "HMS Repulse (S23)", "text": "HMS Repulse (S23)\n\nHMS \"Repulse\" (S23) was a ballistic missile submarine of the Royal Navy.\n\nHMS \"Repulse\" was one of two \"Resolution\"-class ballistic missile submarines ordered from Vickers-Armstrongs on 8 May 1963, with a further two ordered from Cammell Laird the same day. \"Repulse\" was laid down at Vickers Armstrongs' Barrow-in-Furness shipyard on 12 March 1965 and was launched on 4 November 1967, running aground in the Walney Channel during the launch, although she was undamaged and successfully floated off on the next high tide. She commissioned on 28 September 1968. While she was planned to be the third of her class, delays with the build of at Cammell Laird's Birkenhead shipyard meant that \"Repulse\" overtook \"Renown\" and was commissioned second of class. She was the last of her class remaining in service with the navy, decommissioning in 1996.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092921", "title": "Loikaw", "text": "Loikaw\n\nLoikaw (, ) is the capital of Kayah State in Myanmar. It is located in the Karen Hills area, near the State's northern tip, just above an embayment on the Pilu River. The inhabitants are mostly Kayah (Karenni). Myanmar's largest hydropower plant built (by the Japanese as war reparation) is located about 20 km east of Loikaw at Lawpita Falls.\n\nThe town of Loikaw is comprised of 13 urban wards, namely Naungya, Daw-ukhu, Mainglon, Mingala, Dhammayon, Zaypaing, Shwetaung, Landama, Dawtanma, Dawnoeku, Shansu, and Minsu wards.\n\nLoikaw was the Headquarters of the Political Officer in Charge of the Karenni States, part of the Princely States of British Burma, in 1922 during British rule in Burma. The town was located in the only flat part of the Karenni area. In 1892 it numbered four huts. As an Agent of the British government he was exercising control over the local Karenni Rulers, being supervised by the Superintendent at Taunggyi. The headquarters of the American Baptist Mission to Hill Karens was also located in Loikaw.\n\nThe 2014 Myanmar Census reported that Loikaw had a population of 51,349, comprising 40.0% of Loikaw Township's total population. \n\nAir\n\nLoikaw is linked to Yangon and Mandalay by air.\nRail\n\nLoikaw is linked by the newly constructed Aungban-Pinlaung-Loikaw rail line.\nBuses\n\nThere are express buses from loikaw to Yangon, Mandalay and other towns.\n\nThe town is home to Loikaw University, Technological University, Loikaw, Computer University, Loikaw. Loikaw Education College\n\nLoikaw General Hospital serves not only locals in the state but also to those in the southern part of neighbouring Shan State. The existing buildings of the hospital were built in 1964. Due to increase demands, new two two-storey buildings were constructed with the 1.945 billion yen funding from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).\n"}
{"id": "2092935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092935", "title": "Arda (Italy)", "text": "Arda (Italy)\n\nThe Arda is a torrent of Emilia-Romagna, Italy, nearly all of its course being within the province of Piacenza. It is a right tributary of the Po River.\n\nIt rises at an elevation of in the Ligurian Apennines on the north-west slopes of Monte Lama (near Monte Menegosa), within the commune of Morfasso. After about , at an elevation of , it is dammed to form the Lago di Mignano reservoir which covers about and provides both a water supply and hydro-electric power.\n\nThe stream then flows through Lugagnano Val d'Arda and Castell'Arquato before entering the plain where it passes through Fiorenzuola d'Arda and Cortemaggiore. Before entering the Po, near Polesine Parmense, it is joined on the right by another torrent, the Ongina, whose source is in the Piacenza hills, between Alseno and Castell'Arquato.\n\nThe Arda follows the typical pattern of an Apennine torrent with maximum discharges during the spring and autumn rains and a minimal flow during the summer.\n\nAs of 8 August 2006 the article was based on the of the Italian Wikipedia\n"}
{"id": "2092944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092944", "title": "HMS Renown (S26)", "text": "HMS Renown (S26)\n\nHMS \"Renown\" (S26) was the third of the Royal Navy's ballistic missile submarines.\n\nBuilt by Cammell Laird and launched on 25 February 1967, she was decommissioned in 1996.\n\"Renown\", like the other \"Resolution\"-class submarines, was ordered on 8 May 1963 and was laid down at Cammell Laird's Birkenhead shipyard on 25 June 1964. Construction was slower than planned, with poor performance by Cammell Laird and its workforce resulting in both \"Renown\" and sister ship being delayed. In 1966, it was discovered that due to lax interpretation of drawings, \"Renown\"s torpedo storage compartment differed in length by from the lead ship , and in November that year, broken bits of metal were found in the submarine's primary cooling circuits, the removal of which delayed construction by two months. \"Renown\" was launched on 25 February 1967 by Edna Healey, wife of Denis Healey, the Secretary of State for Defence. By October 1967, \"Revenge\" was six months behind programme, and the Ministry of Defence considered towing the unfinished \"Renown\" and \"Revenge\" to Barrow-in-Furness for completion by Vickers-Armstrongs. She was formally commissioned on 15 November 1968.\n\n\"Renown\" was long overall and between perpendiculars, with a beam of and a draught of .\n\n\"Renown\" struck the entrance to a dock when leaving Lairds for sea trials in February 1969, and collided with a merchant ship, MV \"Moyle\" in the Irish Sea on 13 October 1969, which resulted in \"Renown\"s commanding officer being found guilty of hazarding his submarine at the resulting court-martial and relieved of command. \" Renown\" finally became operational in November 1969. \n\nIn 1974 \"Renown\" suffered structural damage when she struck the bottom of the sea during sea trials off Scotland.\n\n\"Renown\" carried out test firings of Chevaline, which was a modification of the Polaris missiles to enable them to penetrate Soviet anti-ballistic missile defences, in early 1982, and was fully operational with Chevaline late that year.\n\nIn the 1990s the ageing \"Resolution\"-class was becoming difficult for the Royal Navy to operate, suffering from an increased number of defects, and \"Renown\" was forced to remain alongside at Faslane due to defects in 1995 before being decommissioned on 24 February 1996.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092945", "title": "Long-eared flying mouse", "text": "Long-eared flying mouse\n\nThe long-eared flying mouse (\"Idiurus macrotis\") or long-eared scaly-tailed flying squirrel, is a species of flying mouse from western and central Africa. It is not actually a :squirrel, nor a :mouse, though it is a rodent. Not much is known about them because they are very hard to keep alive in captivity.\n\nTo achieve gliding flight, it uses two membranes (patagia) which fold up when not in use. When the limbs are stretched wide in a star-shape, the membranes become taut and allow the rodent to glide from tree to tree. Being arboreal, \"Idiurus\" spends all of its time in the trees, living in hollow trunks in groups of 2 to 40. Limit information suggests that it is mainly frugivorous. It has a long tail in proportion to its body, sporting two lines of raised scales, and patches of scaly skin to help it grip trees, but the rest of its body is furry. The tail is longer than the body and is also used to balance, like a primate's tail. Long-eared scaly-tailed flying squirrels are about 20 cm long and weigh 30g. In comparison, the body of a common household mouse is approximately 10 cm long and its tail is approximately 5 cm.\n"}
{"id": "2092949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092949", "title": "Oasis (video game)", "text": "Oasis (video game)\n\nOasis is a turn-based strategy video game developed by American studio Mind Control Software and published for Microsoft Windows by PlayFirst in April 2005. Konami released a mobile phone port in 2006 and Electrified Games released an iPad version, renamed as Defense of the Oasis, in 2010. \"Oasis\" is a casual game set in ancient Egypt that combines \"Civilization\"-style strategy and puzzle gameplay. \"Oasis\" \"has been described as \"Civilization\" meets \"Minesweeper\"\".\n\nEach level of \"Oasis\" consists of a single screen with a 10x10 grid of randomly generated terrain. Initially the map is covered with fog of war, but the player may remove the fog from tiles by clicking on them. Each click reveals a single tile and takes a turn, 85 turns are available for each level. The eponymous oasis covers several squares of each level and lying in a random oasis tile is the obelisk which contains the level's glyph of power. The primary goal is to find the glyph and protect it from barbarians who attack after the 85th turn from tiles marked by blue cairns. To stop the barbarians from destroying the glyph the player must find cities and use them to mount a defense. If the player finds and defends 12 glyphs he or she wins the game.\n\nLayered on top of the basic gameplay are eight scenarios. Each scenario presents a narrative about a different land and the story of a different leader rising to power. In the first scenario players assume the role of an Egyptian noble, the son of the murdered Falcon King, who wishes to rebuild the nation and disperse the fog that has plunged the nation into chaos since his father's murder. Each scenario has its own theme, and each level within a scenario is distinguished by a mix of special gameplay elements related to the theme, such as barbarian strongholds, jungles, islands, plagues, and others.\n\nMost tiles give the player a number of followers when revealed. Followers are a resource; the player may spend them to build roads or he may send them to work in the mines. Both activities also cost a turn. Cities connected by roads gradually grow whereas followers working in mines research combat technology. Both benefits accrue over time, which encourages early investments in mines and roads. Turns can also be spent searching cities which reveals either treasures or advisors. Most treasures provide an attack bonus to the population in that city. When found, advisors pledge to join the player if enough cities survive the barbarian attack. Advisors grant bonuses to the player and substantially alter playing strategy.\n\nWith 100 tiles and just 85 turns the player cannot hope to uncover every tile. He or she knows however that the map is not entirely random. Certain features are present on every or nearly every map: the oasis, cairns, cities, the nomad camp, and mountains. There are clues to finding each feature: the oasis and cairns always appear on the edge, cities are surrounded on all eight sides by crop tiles, the nomad camp appears in the largest block of desert, mountains can be seen from 1 square away and mountain ranges are either 'U' shaped, 'S' shaped, or stretch vertically across the map. As an additional clue to finding cities, the number of cities touching a crop tile is the number of followers gained when the tile is uncovered. This sometimes results in being able to find cities in fewer clicks by solving a small Minesweeper-like puzzle.\n\nThe central tension of the game comes from making trade offs. The player always has more avenues to improve his/her position than he/she has time and resources to pursue them, especially when it comes to spending limited turns and followers. For example, spending turns on exploration provides followers and strategic information, but it delays roads and technology which benefit from early investments. Connecting a far away city could result in net population growth, but it may take valuable time away from searching for a crucial treasure or cairn. Searching the oasis costs turns and gives no immediate value, but it boosts your score and leads to bonus levels which often result in a free glyph and advisor.\n\n\"Oasis\" took eight full-time developers two years and five months to make. The game design was based around a \"No bad click\" philosophy. As one of the game's designers puts it: \"A level consists of 85 carrots and one big stick. The player takes 85 turns discovering and rebuilding his or her empire, where every turn creates some kind of goodness.\"\n\n\"Oasis\" received largely positive reviews from the gaming press, received awards from the independent gaming community and has been ported to mobile phone by Konami. In July 2010, Electrified Games released an iPad version of \"Oasis\" renamed as \"Defense of the Oasis\" to avoid confusion with the English rock band Oasis.\n\nReviewers agreed that the game is easy to pick up and play whilst containing depth of gameplay. Female gamer website Grrl Gamer described the game as \"one part puzzle and one part strategy\", Game Tunnel stated \"\"Oasis\" packs a very powerful punch of both strategy and entertainment\". Game Daily's reviewer disagreed, describing \"Oasis\" as \"the perfect game for those times when you need to do something mindless and silly\" and that there is no need to plan moves before taking them.\n\nWebsite Game Tunnel's founder Russell Carroll rated the game 10 out of 10 overall, summing-up the review by stating \"The game is flawlessly designed to create a wonderful experience in strategy/world-building that even those who don't really get into the genre can enjoy\" and \"\"Oasis\" is one of the best gaming experiences I've had this year\". In \"Computer Games Magazine\", Steve Bauman called the game \"simple, but hardly simplistic\". Although he noted its \"over-reliance on luck\", he nonetheless found that it \"offers up surprisingly deep and interesting strategy\", and argued that \"there's some serious fun to be had with \"Oasis\"\".\n\n\"Oasis\" received Game Tunnel's 2005 \"Game of the Year\" and \"Strategy Game of the Year\" awards. The game also won the Independent Games Festival's 2004 \"Seumas McNally Grand Prize\" and \"Innovation in Game Design\" awards in the web/downloadable category.\n"}
{"id": "2092963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092963", "title": "HMS Revenge (S27)", "text": "HMS Revenge (S27)\n\nHMS \"Revenge\" (S27) was the fourth of the Royal Navy's ballistic missile submarines.\n\nThe four \"Resolution\"-class submarines were ordered on 8 May 1963, with \"Revenge\", the fourth of the class, laid down at Cammell Laird's Birkenhead shipyard on 19 May 1965. Construction of the two submarines being built at Lairds (\"Revenge\" and ) was much slower than planned, with poor performance by Cammell Laird and in particular its workers to blame. At one stage the Ministry of Defence considered towing the unfinished submarines to Barrow-in-Furness for completion by Vickers-Armstrongs. \"Revenge\" was launched on 15 March 1968. She was formally commissioned on 4 December 1969.\n\n\"Revenge\" was long overall and between perpendiculars, with a beam of and a draught of . Displacement was surfaced and submerged. A PWR1 pressurised water reactor, designed and built by Rolls-Royce fed steam to geared steam turbines, with the machinery rated at , giving a speed of submerged and surfaced. A diesel engine provided auxiliary power.\nSixteen tubes for Polaris A3 Submarine-launched ballistic missiles were carried, in two rows of eight. The missiles had a range of , and each missile could carry three nuclear warheads. Defensive armament consisted of six torpedo tubes. The ship had a complement of 143 (13 officers and 130 other ranks), with two separate crews in order to maximise time at sea.\n\nFollowing commissioning, \"Revenge\" underwent extensive sea trials and work-up, before sailing to the United States to carry out a test firing of a Polaris missile at the Eastern Test Range off Florida in June 1970. \n\nShe was marked for disposal in 1992. She is currently being stored pending the identification of a disposal solution for all of the UK's decommissioned nuclear submarines, at Rosyth dockyard, on the northern shore of the Firth of Forth. She is docked down for maintenance and re-preservation approximately every 12 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2092967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092967", "title": "Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka", "text": "Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka\n\nPhumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka (; born 3 November 1955) is a South African politician and United Nations official, and is currently serving as the Executive Director of UN Women with the rank of Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations.\n\nMlambo-Ngcuka served as Deputy President of South Africa from 2005 to 2008, as the first woman to hold the position and at that point the highest ranking woman in the history of South Africa. During her period as deputy president of South Africa, she oversaw programmes to combat poverty and ensure the poor benefit from the advantages of a growing economy.\n\nMlambo-Ngcuka obtained a bachelor's degree in social science and education from the National University of Lesotho in 1980, as well as a master's degree in philosophy from the University of Cape Town in 2003, which dealt with educational planning and policy. In 2013 she completed a doctorate from the University of Warwick. The work covered using mobile technologies to support Teacher Development in resource poor nations. She was awarded an honorary doctorate from Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University in 2014\n\nFrom 1981 to 1983 Mlambo-Ngcuka taught in KwaZulu-Natal, after which she moved to Geneva to work with the World Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA) from 1984 to 1989, as the organisation's Youth Director, where she advocated for job creation for young people within the UN system and promoted development education in Africa, Asia and the Middle East. Mlambo-Ngcuka was the first president of the Natal Organisation of Women. During this time she also founded and directed the Young Women's International Programme.\n\nFrom 1987 to 1989 Mlambo-Ngcuka was director of TEAM, a developmental Non-Government Organisation (NGO) in Cape Town, as well as being involved with squatter women and African independent churches to promote economic self-reliance and running skills training programmes. From 1990 to 1992 she was director of World University Service, a funding agency, as well as being involved in the management of funds donated to development organisations by Swedish and Swiss government development agencies. She started and managed her own management consulting company, Phumelela Services, during 1993 and 1994.\n\nIn 1994 Mlambo-Ngcuka became a Member of Parliament, chairing the Public Service Portfolio Committee. She was deputy minister in the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) from 1996 until 1999, during which time she also was a founding member of the Guguletu Community Development Corporation. From 1997 she served as member of the national executive committee of the African National Congress (ANC), as well as being the provincial vice-chairperson of the ANC Western Cape.\n\nMlambo-Ngcuka was Minister of Minerals and Energy from June 1999 to June 2005. During this time she was a driving force behind the government's policy of creating New Order Mining Rights which ended a period where big mining firms which controlled nearly all South Africa's minerals reserves, were able to hold mining rights to them in perpetuity. Mlambo-Ngucka's policy of 'use it or lose it' created a situation where mining rights became available to a much broader segment of the population including many previously disadvantaged black people. She served as acting Minister of Arts, Culture, Science and Technology from February 2004 to April 2004.\n\nShe led the Southern African Development Community mission to observe the controversial 2005 Zimbabwe parliamentary election, which congratulated \"the people of Zimbabwe for holding a peaceful, credible and well-mannered election which reflects the will of the people.\"\n\nOn 22 June 2005, President Thabo Mbeki appointed her as deputy president of South Africa, after he relieved Jacob Zuma of the post the week before. Mlambo-Ngcuka's husband, Bulelani Ngcuka, was head of South Africa's National Directorate of Public Prosecutions at the time and charged with fighting organised crime. It was the NDPP which had determined that criminal charges should be brought against Zuma. It is Zuma's position that the charges against him are politically motivated. Soon after her appointment she was booed by Zuma supporters at a rally in KwaZulu-Natal, an incident that was not covered by the public broadcaster, the SABC, which led to accusations of bias. In August 2005, commenting on the slow pace of the Willing Buyer Willing Seller land reform program in South Africa, she stated that South Africa could learn about land reform from Zimbabwe. This comment caused alarm and was condemned by the parliamentary opposition.\n\nIn December 2007, she lost her position on the ANC's National Executive Committee after party delegates elected a pro-Zuma slate.\n\nPresident Mbeki resigned in September 2008 after the National Executive Committee, objecting to Mbeki's alleged role in Jacob Zuma's prosecution for criminal activities, decided to recall him. On 23 September, in the wake of this, most of the South African cabinet resigned, Mlambo-Ngcuka among them.\n\nMlambo-Ngcuka joined COPE in late February, 2009.\n\nOn 10 July 2013, Mlambo-Ngcuka was appointed as Executive Director of the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and Empowerment of Women (UN Women) by United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. She was sworn into Executive Director of UN Women on August 19, 2013. She succeeds Michelle Bachelet.\n\nUnder Mlambo-Ngcuka's leadership, UN Women worked with Publicis and Ogilvy on launching the HeForShe campaign. In November 2017 Mlambo-Ngcuka welcomed the Elsie Initiative to help increase women's participation in peacekeeping operations in a joint statement with fellow UN Under-Secretary-General Pramila Patten.\n\nIn addition to her role at UN Women, Mlambo-Ngcuka also served a two-year term as member of the World Bank Group’s (WBG) Advisory Council on Gender and Development from 2015 until 2017. In November 2018, United Nations Secretary General António Guterres appointed her to the United Nations' Task Force on Digital Financing of Sustainable Development Goals, co-chaired by Maria Ramos and Achim Steiner.\n\n\nDuring Mlambo-Ngcuka's tenure as Minister of Minerals and Energy the parastatal company PetroSA made an advance payment of ZAR15 million (approx. $1.5 million) to a private company Imvume, which in turn made a ZAR11 million donation to the ANC ahead of the 2004 elections. It is alleged that Imvume has close links to the ANC. These events have been dubbed the \"Oilgate\" scandal by South African media.\n\nAlthough there was never any evidence that Mlambo-Ngcuka was involved in any way media reports cast suspicion her way. In order to clear her name Mlambo-Ngcuka asked South Africa's Public Protector to investigate the issue. The subsequent report cleared her completely. Because Mlambo-Ngcuka's brother Bonga Mlambo was involved with Imvume on a planned hotel project at the time, he was at first alleged to have been involved in Imvume's oil business. These allegations also proved to be groundless.\n\nMlambo-Ngcuka faced another controversy during the South African political scandals in January 2006 when it emerged that she went with her family and a friend Thuthukile Mazibuko-Skweyiya in December 2005, on a taxpayer-funded holiday at the cost of ZAR4 million to the United Arab Emirates. This was dubbed the \"Gravy Plane\" scandal by the South African media, and came at a sensitive time, as the ANC was preparing to fight local government elections. Once again Mlambo-Ngcuka asked the Public Protector to investigate and once again she was cleared of any wrongdoing. The public protector found that the South African security services had decided that because of security reasons a government plane be used for the journey and that Mlambo-Ngcuka had no role in influencing this decision.\n\nMlambo-Ngcuka is married to the former head of the National Prosecuting Authority, Bulelani Ngcuka. They have five children, four of whom were adopted.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092974", "title": "Nation and Race", "text": "Nation and Race\n\nNation and Race: The Developing Euro-American Racist Subculture is a book edited by Jeffrey Kaplan and Tore Bjørgo. It collects the papers of an international conference held in New Orleans, from December 8, 1995 to December 11, 1995.\n\nIt was published by Northeastern University Press in 1998 as a 273-page paperback and hardcover.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092983", "title": "Porcellionidae", "text": "Porcellionidae\n\nPorcellionidae is a terrestrial family of the order Isopoda.\n\nThis family contains 530 species, found on every continent except Antarctica.\n\nThe ventral plate of the thoracic exoskeleton flare out slightly over the legs. This \"flare\" is called the \"epimeron\". The uropods, antenna-like structures at the back of the specimen, are flattened out and spearlike, and extend beyond the last exoskeletal plate.\n\nThe family contains 19 genera, and two further genera (\"Inchanga\" and \"Mahehia\") may be included.\n"}
{"id": "2092988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092988", "title": "Freakdance Records", "text": "Freakdance Records\n\nFreakdance Records is an Espoo, Finland based record label founded by a Swedish born Max Emil Laine, currently living in Finland. They release suomisaundi music. They have CD releases from such artists as Huopatossu Mononen, Puoskari and Luomuhappo.\n\nIn spring 2007, Faerie Dragon Records (Hong Kong based electronic music label) licensed and re-issued Puoskari's \"The Audio Hustler\" and Luomuhappo's \"Pog-o-Matic Pogómen 3000000\" as enhanced digipak CD releases.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093009", "title": "Julius La Rosa", "text": "Julius La Rosa\n\nJulius La Rosa (January 2, 1930 – May 12, 2016) was an Italian-American traditional popular music singer, who worked in both radio and television beginning in the 1950s.\n\nLa Rosa was born in Brooklyn, New York, where he attended P.S. 123K in Bushwick. At age 17, he joined the United States Navy after finishing high school, becoming a radioman. He sang in a Navy choir, at the officers' club, and at bars to pay for his drinks.\n\nLaRosa's Navy peers promoted him to Arthur Godfrey, one of America's leading radio and television personalities and a Naval Reserve officer himself. George Andrews from Omaha, Nebraska was a mechanic on Godfrey's airplane, and he struck up a conversation with Godfrey and told him that he should hear his friend sing. They arranged a time for La Rosa to audition in Pensacola, Florida where La Rosa was stationed. Godfrey was impressed and offered him a job. He had La Rosa flown to New York to appear on his television show, with Godfrey ending the spot by saying, \"When Julie gets out of the Navy he'll come back to see us.\" La Rosa was discharged from the Navy on a Friday in November 1951, and he went to Godfrey on the following Monday and appeared on his variety show a week later. He was a regular on both the morning \"Arthur Godfrey Time\" and the Wednesday night variety show \"Arthur Godfrey and His Friends\".\n\nLa Rosa was on Godfrey's shows from November 19, 1951 to October 19, 1953. Godfrey's band leader Archie Bleyer formed Cadence Records in 1952, and La Rosa was the first performer with whom they signed a contract. Cadence's first single was also La Rosa's first recording of \"Anywhere I Wander\". It reached the top 30 on the charts, and his next recording was \"My Lady Loves to Dance\", a moderate success. Between his popular records and his appearances on Godfrey's shows, La Rosa's popularity grew exponentially. At one point, his fan mail eclipsed Godfrey's. A year after La Rosa was hired, he was receiving 7,000 fan letters a week.\n\nArthur Godfrey's management style was a curious combination of paternal affection and dictatorial direction. Years of speaking his mind, on and off the air, had conditioned him to do exactly as he pleased. He regarded his employees as a family (the cast members were known as \"the Little Godfreys\") and he took an interest in them personally, but he was the boss and his word was law. Godfrey had discouraged La Rosa and all other cast members from hiring a manager or booking agent; Godfrey preferred to handle these matters internally, with his staff coordinating and negotiating on the artists' behalf.\n\nOne of Godfrey's mandates was for all cast members to attend dance classes, to make them appear more graceful on camera. La Rosa did not comply, claiming a family emergency. Shortly thereafter, La Rosa hired a personal agent and manager, Tommy Rockwell.\n\nGodfrey did not react well to receiving a formal notification that La Rosa had hired Rockwell. After consulting with CBS president Frank Stanton, Godfrey went before the TV cameras for \"Arthur Godfrey Time\" on the morning of October 19, 1953. After the televised portion of the program went off the air, the broadcast continued on the radio network. La Rosa sang \"Manhattan\"—and Godfrey fired him on the air, announcing that La Rosa had become \"his own star\" and \"that was Julie's swan song with us.\" La Rosa did not return to the microphone.\n\nLa Rosa tearfully met with Godfrey after the broadcast and thanked him for giving him his \"break.\" La Rosa was then met at Godfrey's offices by his lawyer, his manager Tommy Rockwell, and some reporters. Rockwell was highly critical of Godfrey's behavior, angrily citing La Rosa's public humiliation.\n\nGodfrey subsequently explained that La Rosa had been fired because he lacked \"humility.\" This comment backfired badly on Godfrey. Stanton regretted the on-air dismissal, later admitting, \"Maybe it was a mistake.\" Comedians began working the phrase \"no humility\" into their routines. Singer Ruth Wallis, known for her raunchy double entendre novelty songs, recorded \"Dear Mr. Godfrey\", a biting satire on the matter, which made it to #25 on the \"Billboard\" charts in November 1953.\n\nAlmost immediately after firing La Rosa, Godfrey also fired bandleader Archie Bleyer, owner of La Rosa's label Cadence Records, for producing spoken-word records for Cadence featuring Chicago-based talk host Don McNeill. Godfrey considered this an act of treason. \"Don McNeill's Breakfast Club\" aired on ABC Radio opposite Godfrey's morning show, although McNeill's success was nowhere on a par with that of Godfrey.\n\nThe firing did not hurt La Rosa's career in the short run. Ed Sullivan immediately signed La Rosa for appearances on his CBS \"Toast of the Town\" TV variety show, which sparked a feud between Sullivan and Godfrey. La Rosa's first appearance on \"Toast of the Town\" following the firing (November 1, 1953) got a 47.9 Trendex rating; La Rosa would appear 12 more times on Sullivan's show that year.\n\nShortly after he left Godfrey, La Rosa's third recording, \"Eh, Cumpari\", hit #1 on the \"Cash Box\" chart and #2 on the \"Billboard\" chart, with La Rosa getting an award as the best new male vocalist of 1953. \"Eh, Cumpari\" was followed by another major hit, \"Domani\". For thirteen weeks during the summer of 1955, La Rosa had a three-times-a-week television series on CBS, \"The Julius La Rosa Show\", featuring Russ Case and his Orchestra. \"The Julius La Rosa Show\" aired in an hour-long format in the summers of 1956 and 1957 at 8 p.m. Eastern on Saturdays on NBC as a seasonal replacement for \"The Perry Como Show\" (Como previously had La Rosa, on occasion, fill in for him during the 1954-'55 season of his CBS series).\n\nIn 1981, Peter Kelley, who handled Godfrey's commercial bookings, suggested the host reunite with cast members from his morning show and record a reunion album. Though Godfrey initially balked, recalling his disputes with La Rosa and other cast members, he agreed to a meeting, and was amenable to having La Rosa participate. La Rosa, feeling sufficient time had passed, was also amenable. At the meeting, held at Godfrey's Manhattan office, Godfrey brought up the firing and asked La Rosa why he didn't tell the \"truth\" as Godfrey saw it: that La Rosa had asked to be released from his contract and Godfrey had obliged. When La Rosa started to respond by reminding him of the dance-class dispute, Godfrey exploded in anger. La Rosa left, and any talk of a reunion show ended. La Rosa tired of revisiting the Godfrey affair, in part because it had been rehashed so many times, but he was also known to acknowledge Godfrey as the one individual who made his career. Nevertheless, La Rosa always added, \"He wasn't a very nice man [to me].\"\n\nLa Rosa appeared in a range of television shows, including \"The Honeymooners\" in 1953, \"What's My Line?,\" \"The Pat Boone Chevy Showroom,\" \"The Polly Bergen Show\" (two episodes, including the 1957 premiere), \"The Merv Griffin Show\" and \"Laverne and Shirley\" in 1980. He starred in the 1958 film \"Let's Rock\". In 1977, he hosted an unsold game show pilot for NBC, \"Noot's Game\".\n\nIn 1970, the singer/actor became a very successful and amiable disc jockey at one of America's biggest radio stations in the top market, Metromedia's WNEW-AM 1130 in New York City. He hosted the 1:00-4:00 p.m. time slot at least through 1976, following William B. Williams' show which would eventually again become the \"Make-Believe Ballroom\". During his first tenure at WNEW the station was more of an adult contemporary format rather than the traditional standards La Rosa was known for. He also sang some songs that were hits on the station. Those included: \"Fire and Rain,\" from the \"Words\" album (Metromedia label) in 1971, \"What'll I Do,\" and \"Save Me a Song\" (RCA Victor label).\" He also recorded \"We Need a Little Christmas\" (1966), played during the holiday season on \"the Big W.\" La Rosa would return to WNEW in the 1980s, doing various air shifts after the station returned to standards and big bands.\n\nIn the 1980s, La Rosa received a non-contract, recurring role in the NBC soap opera \"Another World\", playing the character Reynoldo, for which he was nominated for a Best Supporting Actor in the Daytime Emmy Award.\n\nIn 1998 and 1999, La Rosa was a disc jockey on 1430 WNSW based in Newark, New Jersey, hosting \"Make Believe Ballroom Time\". La Rosa, profiled by jazz critic and composer Gene Lees, continued to work clubs and release records until the early 2000s. \"New York Times\" film critic Stephen Holden said \"His singing is very direct and unpretentious - he can wrap his voice tenaciously around a melody line and bring out the best in it.\"\n\nLa Rosa was a frequent contributor to comedian Jerry Lewis' annual Labor Day telethon programs for the Muscular Dystrophy Association, often hosting the New York outpost of the shows.\n\nIn 2008, La Rosa said \"Music is 'a very egotistical thing.'[...] 'It makes me feel good [...]' and fortunately, I have the capacity to make people feel good who hear me feeling good.'\"\n\nHe and his wife lived for over 40 years in Irvington, New York, until November 2015 when they moved to Crivitz, Wisconsin, where he died of natural causes on May 12, 2016, at age 86.\n\n\nLa Rosa's name was used in a joke by Coach in the sitcom \"Cheers\", in the episode \"Friends, Romans, and Accountants\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2093013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093013", "title": "List of types of naval vessels", "text": "List of types of naval vessels\n\nThis is a list of types of watercraft which have seen naval use.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093016", "title": "Ali az-Zahir", "text": "Ali az-Zahir\n\nAbu'l Hasan ʻAlī az-Zāhir li A'zaz li Din-illah (20 June 1005 – 13 June 1036) () was the Seventh Caliph of the Fātimids (1021–1036). Az-Zāhir assumed the Caliphate after the disappearance of his father Al-Ḥakīm bi Amr al-Lāh. According to the Hijri Calendar, his birth date is 3rd of Ramzaan 395 A.H.\n\nAt first, the government was conducted by Al-Ḥakīm's sister Sitt al-Mulk, but after her death in 1023, a group of her favourites took power.\n\nUnder this regime, the Fātimid state slipped into crisis - in Egypt, famine and plague led to anarchy in the years 1023-1025, and in Palestine and Syria, there was a revolt amongst the Bedouin (1024–1029). The coalition of rebels was fragmented by Fātimid diplomacy, after which General Anushtakin al-Dizbari was able to defeat it militarily.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1028 one of the governing circle, ʻAlī ibn Ahmad Jarjarai, was able to eliminate his colleagues and take over the office of vizir, which he managed to retain until 1045. He enjoyed good relations with the Byzantine Empire, even though the suzerainty over Aleppo was constantly disputed, occasionally coming to arms. To improve relations with Byzantium and the Christian subjects of the realm, the rebuilding of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, destroyed in 1009, was authorised under his caliphate in a treaty with the Byzantine Emperor Romanus III. Actual building work, funded by the Byzantines, was not undertaken until 1042.\n\nThe period of his Imaamate was sixteen years. After ʻAlī died of the plague 13 June 1036, his son became the eighth caliph under the throne name of al-Mustansir.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093019", "title": "Palamedes (mythology)", "text": "Palamedes (mythology)\n\nIn Greek mythology, Palamedes () was the son of Nauplius and Clymene.\n\nHe joined the Greeks in the expedition against Troy.\nPausanias in his \"Description of Greece\" (2.20.3) says that in Corinth is a Temple of Fortune in which Palamedes dedicated the dice that he had invented. Plato in The Republic (Book 7) (through the mouthpiece of Socrates) remarks that Palamedes claimed to have invented numbers.\n\nAfter Paris took Helen to Troy, Agamemnon sent Palamedes to Ithaca to retrieve Odysseus, who had promised to defend the marriage of Helen and Menelaus. Odysseus did not want to honor his oath, so he plowed his fields with an ass and an ox both hitched to the same plow, so the beasts of different sizes caused the plow to pull chaotically. Palamedes guessed what was happening and put Odysseus' son, Telemachus, in front of the plow. Odysseus stopped working and revealed his sanity.\nThe ancient sources show differences in regards to the details of how Palamedes met his death. \n\nOdysseus never forgave Palamedes for ruining his attempt to stay out of the Trojan War. When Palamedes advised the Greeks to return home, Odysseus hid gold in his tent and wrote a fake letter purportedly from Priam. The letter was found and the Greeks accused him of being a traitor. Palamedes was stoned to death by Odysseus and Diomedes. According to other accounts the two warriors drowned him during a fishing expedition. Still another version relates that he was lured into a well in search of treasure, and then was crushed by stones. Although he is a major character in some accounts of the Trojan War, Palamedes is not mentioned in Homer's \"Iliad\".\n\nOvid discusses Palamedes' role in the Trojan War in the \"Metamorphoses\". Palamedes' fate is described in Virgil's \"Aeneid\". In the \"Apology\", Plato describes Socrates as looking forward to speaking with Palamedes after death, and intimates in the \"Phaedrus\" that Palamedes authored a work on rhetoric. Euripides and many other dramatists have written dramas about his fate.\n\nHyginus revives an old account that Palamedes created eleven letters of the Greek alphabet:\n\nIn one modern account, \"The Luck of Troy\" by Roger Lancelyn Green, Palamedes was double-dealing with the Trojans.\n\nDefense of Palamedes is a text by Gorgias, describing the defense speech that Palamedes gave when charged with treason.\n\nThe major Dutch playwright Joost van den Vondel wrote in 1625 the play \"Palamedes\", based on the above Greek myth. The play had a clear topical political connotation, the unjust killing of Palamedes standing for the execution of the statesman Johan van Oldenbarnevelt six years earlier - which Vondel, like others in the Dutch Republic, considered a judicial murder. In Vondel's version, responsibility for the killing of Palamedes is attributed to mainly to Agamemnon; the play's harsh and tyrannical Agamemnon was clearly intended to portray Prince Maurits of Nassau. Authorities in Amsterdam found no difficulty in deciphering the political meanings behind Vondel's Classical allusions, and imposed a heavy fine on the playwright.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093023", "title": "Palmieri", "text": "Palmieri\n\nPalmieri is an Italian surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093024", "title": "Palamedes (Arthurian legend)", "text": "Palamedes (Arthurian legend)\n\nPalamedes (also called Palomides , or some other variant) is a Knight of the Round Table in the Arthurian legend. He is a Saracen pagan who converts to Christianity later in his life, and his unrequited love for Iseult brings him into frequent conflict with Tristan. Palamedes' father is King Esclabor. His brothers, Safir and Segwarides, also join the Round Table. The romance \"Palamedes\" was named after him.\n\nPalamedes first appears in the Prose \"Tristan\", an early 13th-century prose expansion of the Tristan and Iseult legend. He is introduced as a knight fighting for Princess Iseult's hand at a tournament in Ireland; he ultimately loses to the protagonist Tristan, to the delight of the princess. Tristan spares him but forbids him to bear arms for a year or to pursue Iseult's love ever again. After Iseult's wedding to King Mark, Palamedes rescues Iseult's servant Brangaine, joins the Round Table and engages in a number of duels with Tristan that are usually postponed or end without a clear winner. They eventually reconcile, but share a love-hate relationship through the rest of the narrative.\n\nPalamedes also appears in the Post-Vulgate Cycle, Thomas Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", and even gave his name to his own prose romance, the early 13th-century \"Palamedes\" that now exists only in fragments, detailing the adventures of two generations of Arthurian heroes.\n\nSome stories reveal Palamedes' background: his father was a king of Babylon who is sent to Rome where he saves the life of the Emperor. He then travels to Britain where he rescues and befriends King Pellinore.\n\nMany tales also have Palamedes as the hunter of the Questing Beast, an abomination only the chosen can kill. The hunt is as frustrating and fruitless as the pursuit of Iseult, and in most versions remains uncompleted. However, in the Post-Vulgate Palamedes' conversion to Christianity during the Grail Quest allows him release from his worldly entanglements, and Percival and Galahad help him trap the beast in a lake, where he finally slays it.\n\nMalory has Palamedes and his brother Safir joining Lancelot after the great knight's affair with Queen Guinevere is exposed. The brothers eventually accompany Lancelot to France, where Palamedes is made Duke of Provence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093025", "title": "Fort Mitchell National Cemetery", "text": "Fort Mitchell National Cemetery\n\nFort Mitchell National Cemetery is one of the 130 United States National Cemeteries, located in Fort Mitchell, Alabama, adjacent to the state-owned and operated Fort Mitchell Park. It has interred approximately 5,000 individual since it officially opened its site in 1987. It serves as a national cemetery in Federal Region IV, to serve veterans residing in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Tennessee, and Mississippi.\n\nThe Georgia Militia originally constructed Fort Mitchell in order to sustain a military presence in the area during the Creek War of 1813 to 1814. Shortly after the fort's completion, the Georgia Militia launched an attack against the British at Tuckabatchie and Hothlewali. The militia was ambushed and driven back to Fort Mitchell by a combined force of Creeks and British. Thereafter, until 1825, a small force continued to garrison at the fort.\n\nFrom 1817 to 1825, Fort Mitchell gradually emerged as a center of commerce for trade with Native Americans. In 1817, a trading house, or factory, was established where produced goods were available to local tribes at prices below what they could otherwise afford. In 1818, a post office was added to the newly extended Federal Road that crossed through Fort Mitchell from Augusta, Georgia, and westward into the Alabama Territory.\n\nIn 1821, an Indian agency was created at Fort Mitchell, and Colonel John Crowell was appointed agent to the Creeks. While Crowell managed the agency, his brother, Thomas, ran the tavern, which later served as an officer's quarters.\n\nFort Mitchell became central to the protection of Native Americans as settlers consistently violated the Creek territory as defined under terms of the 1814 Treaty of Fort Jackson. In response to Native American protests, a new fort was constructed and occupied by the 4th U.S. Infantry in summer 1825, and it remained garrisoned almost continually through 1840. The second fort encompassed the first, and while much larger, was similar in design.\n\nThe use of force against white trespassers was effective. In 1831, a group of white settlers invaded the Indian community of Ola Ufalal (now Eufaula), evicted the Creeks, burned their houses, and built their own settlement. The U.S. marshal protested the settlers' actions, and when defied, the commandant at Fort Mitchell dispatched a company to demand the surrender and evacuation of the town. The residents complied and retreated across the Chattahoochee River.\n\nPresident Andrew Jackson was committed to a policy of removing Native Americans, however, and was not eager to use force against settlers who were supported by the laws of Georgia and Alabama. For every ejection of a trespasser evacuated by troops at Fort Mitchell, 10 intruders would cross the river and enter Creek territory.\n\nThe hopelessness of the military's position was reflected in the celebrated Hardeman Owen killing. Owen had planned but failed to murder the U.S. marshal. Troops at Fort Mitchell were called out to capture Owen, and in the ensuing melee he was killed. Georgia authorities charged the trooper who fired the fatal shot with murder and demanded the Army hand him over. The commandant refused. Tensions ran high and almost erupted into open warfare. In an attempt to settle the dispute, Francis Scott Key was dispatched by the administration to investigate the affair. He took up residence at Fort Mitchell and composed a report on the condition of the Creeks and the cause of the recent turmoil. He charged that the evils perpetrated on the Native Americans were caused by the weakness of the U.S. government in facing the aggressive actions of the settlers. Key went on to negotiate a settlement, which, after he returned to Washington, was rarely honored.\n\nCreek desperation reached a crisis point in spring 1836. Under the leadership of Chief Eneah-Mathla, an estimated 1,500 warriors attacked the settlements. General Winfield Scott was ordered to intervene and succeeded in overcoming the attack. By July 1836, an estimated 1,600 Creek people were concentrated at Fort Mitchell in preparation for a forced expulsion West. Approximately 2,000 to 3,000 were eventually marched from Fort Mitchell to Montgomery, \"shedding tears and making the most bitter wailings.\" This route is known as the Trail of Tears.\n\nIn late 1980s, the old post cemetery at Fort Mitchell was officially identified as the location for a national cemetery in Federal Region IV and was opened in May 1987.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093037", "title": "Rayman: Hoodlums' Revenge", "text": "Rayman: Hoodlums' Revenge\n\nRayman: Hoodlums' Revenge (alternatively Rayman: Hoodlum's Revenge) is a game that was released for the Game Boy Advance in 2005. It takes place shortly after the events of \"\" and, like its predecessor, pokes fun at the platformer video game genre.\n\nThe games begins with Rayman and Globox sleeping in the Fairy Council, when Globox's dreams are disturbed by the memory of him swallowing the Black Lum Andre. He is awakened by a strange sound, and goes off to search for its source (it is possible he was captured by the Hoodlums, since he is later seen in the Bog of Murk, seemingly trapped). Later, Rayman wakes up to find his pal missing, and goes off to look for Globox.\n\nAs he journeys onward, Rayman is told by Murfy that the Hoodlums are trying to clone Reflux: the other main rival of Rayman 3, and that the clone is plum juice-powered. Before he finally meets up with Globox, he must destroy the Infernal Machine, which basically makes the potent plum juice.\n\nMeanwhile, in the Bog of Murk, Globox is unknowingly being slowly taken over by Andre, and this is apparent by Globox's sudden mood swings in which he becomes condescending, aggressive, and just plain mean. Later, when he and Rayman are reunited, Andre often insults Rayman or the feeble attempts of the Hoodlums (\"meddlesome loser\" and \"Lame-man\" are some of the jeers he throws at Rayman). However Rayman, unused to Globox being a jerk, or smart in any way, simply does not hear most of it, though at one point he asks Globox if he was hit in the head.\n\nAs they continue through the lands they must save the Teensies and defeat a couple of bosses (Begoniax Bayou and Pit of Endless Fire are the boss levels [excluding Infernal Machine and Reflux's Lair]). In the Pit of Endless Fire, after the defeat of the Firemonster, Andre takes full control of Globox and announces his return.\n\nWhen Rayman finally encounters the cloned Reflux and defeats him, Globox appears as Andre's black spirit flutters away through Globox's mouth, and he awakes his full self, even asking if he missed breakfast. The story ends with the pair walking off into the forest.\n\nThis game is the first Rayman game to be of an isometric platformer, instead of being either a fully 3D or 2D platformer. Most of the levels put the player in control of Rayman, while other levels put the player in control of his partner, Globox. In certain levels, the player is able to control both of them in the same level by pressing the Select button to switch the characters.\nThe goal of each level is to get to the end and gain the maximum number of points possible. To do this, the player has to collect gems and lums that are scattered throughout the levels. Also, freeing Teensies and defeating enemies gives the player points. At the end of the level, the player earns Murfy stamps, based on their score. Murfy stamps are not important to the completion of the game, but after getting a certain number of them, extra levels are unlocked. There is a total of five levels that can be unlocked with the acquiring of Murfy stamps.\n\nHoodlum's Revenge received mixed reviews, with Metacritic scoring a 61/100, and GameRankings with a 59%, blaming the game for the short length.\n"}
{"id": "2093067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093067", "title": "People Are Still Having Sex", "text": "People Are Still Having Sex\n\n\"People Are Still Having Sex\" is a song written and recorded by American musician LaTour. It was released in April 1991 as the first single from his self-titled debut album \"LaTour\" (1991). The song reached number one on both the US and Canadian dance charts. It also peaked at number 35 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number 15 in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe song features a monologue expounding the narrator's observations that \"people everywhere\" are \"still having sex\"; no matter how authority figures such as parents and counselors try, and despite the risk posed by AIDS, \"nothing seems to stop them\". In the album edit of the song, the lyrics were originally written as \"This AIDS thing's not working\". It was changed to \"This safe thing's not working\" for radio airplay.\n\nThe song is built around an instrumental background and also includes a male voice speaking various lines. An audio sample of a woman saying \"Hello, lover\" is taken from the 1987 horror film \"Evil Dead II\".\n\nThe song's music video features animation and features various animated backgrounds, some of which relate to the song's topic. The video was conceived by H-Gun, creator of early videos by Nine Inch Nails and Ministry. LaTour's live face is seen at the left of the screen during his speaking parts, while animation occupies the rest of the screen.\n\nThe video of the song was featured on the animated MTV series \"Beavis and Butt-head\", on the episode \"Temporary Insanity\", which aired on December 10, 1994.\n\nThe song was used by American figure skater Tonya Harding for her short program in the 1991–1992 season, including at the 1992 Olympic Winter Games in Albertville. The music was one of the only one of her programs to be included in the 2017 film \"I, Tonya\", where the program was recreated by actress Margot Robbie.\n\nIn 2007, German rapper Olaf Jeglitza released a cover of the song under the name Real McCoy through his independent label PHEARS. The single was Produced by Daniel Peter and did not chart.\n\n\"CD maxi single\"\n"}
{"id": "2093074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093074", "title": "Lipica, Sežana", "text": "Lipica, Sežana\n\nLipica (; ) is a village in the Municipality of Sežana in the Littoral region of Slovenia, close to the border with Italy. Lipica is one of the main tourist centers of Slovenia's Karst region and it is known for the Lipica Stud Farm, the origin of the Lipizzan horse.\n\nThe name of the settlement is derived from the Slovenian word \"lipa\" 'linden tree'. The species is common in the area and is a national symbol of Slovenia. The staff at the Lipica Stud Farm plant a new linden tree for every foal born.\n\nFrom the 14th century until 1947, Lipica was part of the municipality of Trieste. When Charles II, Archduke of Inner Austria (son of Ferdinand I, Holy Roman Emperor) decided to establish a new stud farm in the 16th century, the Spanish horse was considered the ideal horse breed. Because the soil and climate in the Karst region is similar to that of Spain, Lipica was chosen as the perfect spot for the new farm.\n\nThe Lipica stud farm was established in 1580 and the first horses were bought from Spain in 1581 (24 broodmares and six stallions). The farmers living in the area at the time were evicted and resettled in Laže.\n\nA coal mine operated east of the settlement from 1778 to 1817. Coal mining was attempted at the site again in 1857 and at sporadic later dates, but was deemed uneconomical because it is deposited only in lenses. Coal from the mine was once used at the sugar refinery in Rijeka. In 1947, Lipica was annexed to Yugoslavia and incorporated into Slovenia, one of the country's constituent republics, which became independent in 1991.\n\nLipica is the site of a mass grave associated with the Second World War. The Lipica Shaft Mass Grave () is located about southwest of the tree-lined boulevard by the stud farm. It contains an undetermined number of human remains.\n\nLipica is the origin of the Lipizzan horse. The Lipizzan breed as known today was fully developed in the time of Maria Theresa of Austria, whose husband was greatly interested in horse-breeding. During the Napoleonic wars, the stud farm was relocated to Székesfehérvár. In 1802, an earthquake struck Lipica, killing large numbers of horses. The stud farm was relocated to Đakovo in 1805, to Pecica (near Mezőhegyes) in 1809, to Laxenburg during the First World War, and then to Kladruby nad Labem.\n\nAfter the First World War, when Lipica was awarded to Italy, most of the horses were returned to Lipica. On 16 October 1943, the stud farm and 178 horses were relocated to Hostouň. After the Second World War, the farm had only 11 horses; all of the others had been confiscated by the Germans during the war. In the 1960s, Lipica was opened to tourists and new development began. In 1996, Lipica became a public institution that is owned by the Republic of Slovenia and has made significant progress since then.\n\nQueen Elizabeth II visited Lipica and its stud farm on 22 October 2008 and was presented with a Lipizzan horse as a gift from the Slovenian people. The queen's horse remains at the Lipica Stud Farm because it was requested that the farm care for it on her behalf. Today the Lipica Stud Farm is fully functional and breeds the finest horses for haute-école riding.\n\nThe stud farm now also includes a hotel and leisure complex with a golf course, as well as the Lipikum Museum dedicated to various aspects of the stud and the Lipizzan breed, including guided tours of the stud farm.\n\nThe Lipica Open is an international orienteering competition that is held every year on the second weekend of March. It is the biggest orienteering competition in Slovenia and was held for the first time in 1992.\n\nOther places of interest in and near Lipica include:\n\nNotable people that were born or lived in Lipica include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2093075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093075", "title": "Car model", "text": "Car model\n\nThe model of a car is the name used by a manufacturer to market a range of similar cars. The methods used by car manufacturers to categorise their product range into models varies between manufacturers.\n\nWithout any equipment, upholstery and exterior trim is usually determined by the trim level, the car model often defines the platform (which determines the engines, drivetrains and chassis options available), body styles and aesthetic theme.\n\nSome models have only one body style (e.g. the Mazda 2 hatchback), while other models are produced in several body styles (e.g. the Audi A3, which has been produced in hatchback, sedan and convertible body styles). In some cases, a manufacturer has marketed a body style as a separate model — for example the Volkswagen Jetta and the BMW 4 Series, which are based on the Volkswagen Golf and BMW 3 Series platforms respectively.\n\nSome models have an only engine (or electric/hybrid powertrain) option available, while other models have multiple powertrains available.\n\nIn the North America, a model can also be called a \"nameplate\". The Chevrolet Suburban is the oldest automobile nameplate in continuous production, dating to 1934, and the 1940-1996 Chrysler New Yorker was another long-running North American car nameplate. However, the term \"nameplate\" is also sometimes used to describe an entire brand, rather than a specific model.\n\nThe same car model may be sold by the automaker in different countries under different model names. Examples include Mitsubishi Pajero / Montero, Mazda MX-5 / Miata, Volkswagen Golf / Rabbit and Ford Everest / Endeavour.\n\nThe model year (MY) is a manner of indicating the version of a car that has been produced and changed over multiple years.\n\nBeyond the standard equipment that is fitted to all vehicles in for a model, additional features (such as the upholstery, interior equipment, safety features and exterior aerodynamic/styling upgrades) are often determined by the trim level of the vehicle.\n\nMany manufacturers also allow additional equipment to be added to a vehicle by purchasing individual options (such as alloy wheels) or 'packages' of bundled options (such as a \"safety package\" consisting of lane departure warning system, collision avoidance system and additional airbags).\n"}
{"id": "2093077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093077", "title": "John D. Hoblitzell Jr.", "text": "John D. Hoblitzell Jr.\n\nJohn Dempsey Hoblitzell Jr. (December 30, 1912 – January 6, 1962) was an American politician from West Virginia. He was a member of the Republican Party.\n\nHoblitzell was born in Parkersburg, West Virginia. He graduated from the West Virginia University in 1934. He was involved in insurance, real estate, construction, and banking businesses. From 1942 to 1946 he served in the United States Naval Reserve, retiring as a lieutenant.\n\nHoblitzell was active in community service and civic affairs, serving as the first president of The West Virginia Junior Chamber of Commerce (1939–1940).\n\nHe also served in several positions in education, including as a member board of governors of West Virginia University (1937–1944), a member of Wood County School Board (1950–1956), a delegate to White House Conference on Education (1954), president of the West Virginia School Board Association (1954), and a member of the National Citizens Committee on Higher Education (1955). In addition, he was chairman of the Governor's West Virginia Commission on State and Local Finance (1954).\n\nIn 1956 Hoblitzell was an unsuccessful in a bid for the Republican nomination to the House of Representatives. He was appointed on January 25, 1958, to the United States Senate to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Matthew M. Neely and served until November 4, 1958. He was an unsuccessful candidate for election to the vacancy. After leaving the Senate, he resumed his business interests.\n\nHe died, of a heart attack, in Clarksburg, West Virginia, in 1962 and was interred in Mount Olivet Cemetery, Parkersburg, West Virginia.\n"}
{"id": "2093078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093078", "title": "Henry Holbeach", "text": "Henry Holbeach\n\nHenry Holbeach ( – 2 August 1551) was an English clergyman who served as the last Prior and first Dean of Worcester, a suffragan bishop, and diocesan bishop of two Church of England dioceses.\n\nBorn as Henry Rands (or Randes) in Holbeach, Lincolnshire, he assumed the name of his birthplace on becoming a monk at Crowland Abbey. He proceeded to Cambridge (Bachelor of Theology {BTh} 1527, Doctor of Theology {DTh} 1534), and became prior of Buckingham College, Cambridge.\n\nIn 1536, he was elected the Prior of Worcester, and two years later he also became the Bishop of Bristol, a suffragan bishop in the Diocese of Worcester. Following the Dissolution of the Monasteries in 1540, the priory was re-established as a cathedral with Holbeach becoming the first Dean of Worcester in 1542. In 1544, he became Bishop of Rochester, and finally in 1547 Bishop of Lincoln.\n\nHe is believed to have been the first of the English (post reformation) bishops to have been married, his wife Joan proving his will on 5 October 1551 and he left a son Thomas Randes. According to his descendant, Cater Rand, he was \"one of the compilers of the liturgy\". Holbeach developed the sweating sickness and died on 2 August 1551 at Nettleham (some accounts give 6 August as date of death) and was buried there on 7 August 1551.\n"}
{"id": "2093080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093080", "title": "List of Saudia destinations", "text": "List of Saudia destinations\n\nSaudi Arabian airline Saudia flies to over 80 cities in Asia, Europe, Africa and North America from its hubs of Jeddah, Riyadh, Dammam, Medina and Abha.\n"}
{"id": "2093090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093090", "title": "Russian submarine Borisoglebsk (K-496)", "text": "Russian submarine Borisoglebsk (K-496)\n\nK-496 \"Borisoglebsk\" is a Russian advanced Delta III SSBN nuclear submarine. On 21 June 2005 the vessel served as the launch platform for a missile carrying a payload containing a solar sail experiment, \"Cosmos 1\". The submarine was based in the Russian Northern Fleet. In early December 2008 \"Borisoglebsk\" was decommissioned from the fleet and was getting ready to be scrapped.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093091", "title": "Michael DeLuise", "text": "Michael DeLuise\n\nMichael Robert DeLuise (born August 4, 1969) is an American actor, film director, and film producer.\n\nMichael DeLuise was born in Los Angeles, California, the second son of actor and comedian Dom DeLuise and actress Carol Arthur, and the brother of actor, writer, director Peter DeLuise and actor David DeLuise.\n\nDeLuise made his film debut in 1979 opposite his father in the 1979 comedy \"Hot Stuff\". \n\nIn 1990 Michael DeLuise landed his first major role, on the Fox TV series \"21 Jump Street\". He played Officer Joey Penhall, the younger brother of his brother Peter DeLuise's role, Officer Doug Penhall. He and Peter were also on \"SeaQuest DSV\", playing Tony Piccolo from 1994 to 1996. He made recurring appearances as TJ on the TV series \"Gilmore Girls\" and as Andy Sipowicz's older son on the TV series \"NYPD Blue\". He has also made guest appearances on \"\", \"Lost\", and \"Stargate SG-1\".\n\nHe played one of the headbangers in the \"Bohemian Rhapsody\" scene of the feature film \"Wayne's World\". He also played Matt, the school bully and primary villain in \"Encino Man\".\n"}
{"id": "2093093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093093", "title": "Karenni States", "text": "Karenni States\n\nThe Karenni States, also known as Red Karen States, was the name formerly given to the states inhabited mainly by the Red Karen, in the area of present-day Kayah State, eastern Burma. They were located south of the Federated Shan States and east of British Burma.\n\nThe British government recognised and guaranteed the independence of the Karenni States in an 1875 treaty with Burmese King Mindon Min, by which both parties recognised the area as belonging neither to Burma nor to Great Britain. Consequently, the Karenni States were never fully incorporated into British Burma. The Karenni states formed for a time the \"Kayah State\" in post-independent Burma, but on 29 April 1959 both the Shan and the Kayah rulers formally surrendered their ruling powers to the Burmese government.\n\nThere are no historical data on the Karenni States before the 19th century. According to local tradition in the early times of the Karenni states there was a principality led by a \"\"Sawphya\"\" that was under the over lordship of a Shan prince. This state finally became independent in the 18th century. In the 19th century the Karenni state was divided into five principalities \"(sawphyas)\".\n\nIn 1864 a Karenni prince requested the status of British protectorate for his state, but the British authorities did not show any interest. After the death of this prince in 1869 his two sons renewed the petition claiming that they feared Burmese ambitions on their state.\nThe British refused again, but agreed to arbitrate before the King of Burma. Since the Burmese monarchy insisted in their demands on the Karenni territories, the British granted recognition to four states, Kyebogyi, Namekan (Nammekon), Naungpale and Bawlake, which became independent under British protection on 21 June 1875. Kantarawadi state, however, remained independent without official protection.\n\nThe Karenni States were recognized as tributary to British Burma in 1892, when their rulers agreed to accept a stipend from the British government. An Assistant Superintendent of the Shan States was based at Loikaw as Agent of the British government. He was exercising control over the local Karenni Rulers, being supervised by the Superintendent at Taunggyi.\nOn 10 October 1922 the administrations of the Karenni states and the Shan states were officially unified to establish the Federated Shan States, under a commissioner who also administered the Wa States. This arrangement survived the constitutional changes of 1923 and 1937. By the 1930s, the Mawchi Mine in Bawlake was one of the most important sources of tungsten in the world.\n\nOn 27 May 1942, during World War II, nearby Kengtung State was invaded and its capital captured by the Thai Phayap Army. Following a previous agreement between Thai Prime Minister Plaek Phibunsongkhram and the Japanese Empire, in December the same year the Thai administration occupied Kengtung and parts of Möngpan. The annexation by Thailand as Saharat Thai Doem northern province was formalized on 1 August 1943.\n\nThailand left the territories in 1945, but officially relinquished its claim over the trans-Salween part of Kantarawadi State only in 1946 as part of the condition for admission to the United Nations and the withdrawal of all wartime sanctions for having sided with the Axis powers.\n\nThe Constitution of the Union of Burma in 1947 proclaimed that the three Karenni States be amalgamated into a single constituent state of the union, called Karenni State. It also provided for the possibility of secession from the Union after 10 years. In 1952, the former Shan state of Mong Pai was added, and the whole renamed Kayah State, possibly with the intent of driving a wedge between the Karenni in Kayah State and the rest of the Karen people in Karen State, both fighting for independence.\n\nThere were five Karenni states, divided into two regions.\n\nThe Western Karenni States were the four Karenni states located west of the Salween River:\n\nKantarawadi State was also known as \"Eastern Karenni\". It had an area of and a population of 26,333 in 1901. More than half of its territory was located east of the Salween River, an area that was annexed by Thailand during World War II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093097", "title": "Eh, Cumpari!", "text": "Eh, Cumpari!\n\n\"Eh, Cumpari!\" is a novelty song. It was adapted from a traditional Italian song by Julius La Rosa and Archie Bleyer in 1953 and sung by La Rosa with Bleyer's orchestra as backing on a recording that year.\n\nThe song reached #1 on the \"Cash Box\" chart and #2 on the \"Billboard\" chart in 1953. As a result, the song was also featured in a performance by Dennis Day on \"The Jack Benny Program\" on CBS Radio.\n\nIn the mid-1970s The Gaylords recorded another popular version for an Alitalia Airlines commercial, in the middle of which a comical letter from someone in \"the old country\" culminating with a joke about Alitalia is read.\n\nThe song also appeared in the soundtrack to Francis Ford Coppola's film \"The Godfather Part III\", sung by Talia Shire as Connie Corleone.\n\nWashington D.C. radio shock jock \"The Greaseman\" regularly used the song as one of his \"bits\" during the 1980s.\n\nThe rock group Chicago referred to \"Eh, Cumpari!\" in the song \"Saturday in the Park\" with the line: \n\nThe song is a cumulative song, in which each verse contains all of the previous verses as well. It is sung in Sicilian and is about the sounds of musical instruments.\n\nA rough translation reads as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "2093100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093100", "title": "Jesse Jane", "text": "Jesse Jane\n\nCindy Taylor (born July 16, 1980) is an American retired pornographic actress and model best known by her stage name Jesse Jane. She is the recipient of numerous awards and nominations over her career in the adult industry including induction into the AVN and XRCO Hall of Fame. Jane is also the \"Australian Penthouse\" magazine Pet of the Month for November 2010. She was an exclusive contract performer for Digital Playground between 2002 and 2014. In January 2015, she signed an exclusive, two-year performing contract with Jules Jordan Video\n\nJane was a military brat who grew up on various military bases in the Midwestern United States. She did extensive dance training and was a varsity cheerleader at her high school in Rose Hill, Kansas. She graduated from Moore High School in Moore, Oklahoma in 1998.\n\nJane read an article on Tera Patrick that said that Patrick worked for adult-film production company Digital Playground. She contacted them and was quickly signed to a contract. Her first scene was with Devon in \"No Limits\". Within months of winning the contract, she appeared on Showtime Network's \"Family Business\", where she was filmed at the Adult Video News awards show and convention. The films in which Digital Playground cast Jane, such as \"No Limits\", \"Beat the Devil\", and \"Loaded\", proved popular enough to warrant her own line of sex toys, as well as secure nominations for several awards. She starred in the \"Pirates\" series of erotic films.\n\nIn March 2006, Jane and Kirsten Price became the hosts of Playboy TV's most popular live show, \"Night Calls\". In addition, Jane also hosts Playboy TV's \"Naughty Amateur Home Videos\" and has been the sex columnist for \"Chéri\", with contributions since the January 2007 issue. With fellow Digital Playground contract performers Devon and Teagan Presley, Jane co-hosts the live, Internet-based adult industry talk show \"DP Tonight\". The show features industry gossip, adult film star guests, and audience/host interactivity.\nJane has hosted several adult industry award ceremonies throughout her career including the AVN Awards in 2006 and 2013, the F.A.M.E. Awards in 2008, and the XBIZ Awards in 2008 and 2011. In 2007, Jesse also became a sex columnist for the Australian men's magazine \"Ralph\", replying to letters from readers about sex and dating.\n\nIn January 2007, an article in \"The New York Times\" stated that Jane intended to have her breast enhancement surgery re-done for high-definition movies. On her official website, she wrote that she had her surgery on February 12 that year.\n\nIn 2015 interview, she announced she no longer goes by the name \"Jesse Jane\" but rather simply \"Jesse\". The reason was that she was in a dispute with her former employer of 12 years, Digital Playground, who owns the rights to her former stage name.\n\nIn January 2017, Jane announced that she would retire from the adult industry and that the 2017 AVN Awards would be her last.\n\nOn June 26, 2019, Xbiz announced that Jane had come out of retirement and shot her first interracial scene for Blacked.com after which she immediately retired again.\n\nIn 2004, Jane made a cameo appearance in the film \"Starsky & Hutch\" and appeared on the cover of Drowning Pool's album \"Desensitized\".\nOn the July 25, 2006 episode of \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", during the \"Jay Walking\" segment, she gave her name as \"Cindy\" and said that she currently worked at Hooters. An adult magazine cover featuring her as Jesse Jane was then shown onscreen. In 2005, she was featured as UnRated Magazine's Vixen, to launch the music review magazine's new edition of \"Vixens\".\nShe was a guest star on the HBO dramedy series \"Entourage\", in the ninth episode of the second season, \"I Love You Too\", which features the foursome making a trip to Comicon, where they get some help from the \"Pussy Patrol,\" of which Jane is the leader.\n\nOn February 28, 2007 she featured on the Danish late night show den 11. time during the show she was interviewed by seemingly three Mads Brüggers.\n\nIn 2009 Jesse appeared in the reality series \"The Bad Girls Club\". In a 2009 CNBC documentary titled \"Porn: Business of Pleasure\", Jesse is the focus of the final 10-minute segment, which details her career and her life outside the porn industry.\n\nJane was the \"Australian Penthouse\" Pet of the Month in November 2010.\n\nIn January 2011 she was named by freelance journalist Chris Morris as one of the 12 most popular stars in porn which he published on CNBC. Morris stated that she is \"for many, the face of modern porn\", noting her roles in the popular porn \"Pirates\" films, and her Performer of the Year nominations by both AVN and the XBIZ Awards. And again in 2014, Jane was on Morris's list of \"The Dirty Dozen: Porn's Most Popular Stars\".\n\nIn 2000, Jane gave birth to a boy. She stated in 2007 that she was married to fellow porn star Rick Patrick. They live in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. On March 1, 2012, Jane announced on her official Twitter account that she and Patrick were divorced.\n\nJane has described herself as bisexual. In 2004, she stated on the \"Howard Stern Show\" that she had a hysterectomy due to now dormant cervical cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093104", "title": "Military Families Against the War", "text": "Military Families Against the War\n\nMilitary Families Against the War (MFAW) is an organisation of families of servicemen in the United Kingdom created to campaign for British troops to be withdrawn from Iraq.\n\nThe group's mission statement sets out their objectives as follows:\n\nA number of member families have recently launched an application for a judicial review under the Human Rights Act 1998, which if successful will open the way for a fully independent public enquiry into the Iraq war and would see senior ministers including Tony Blair called to face cross-examination.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093122", "title": "Australian Military Forces", "text": "Australian Military Forces\n\nThe Australian Military Forces (AMF) was the official name of the Army of Australia from 1916 to 1980. This encompassed both the (full-time) \"regular army\", and the (part-time) forces, variously known during this period as the Militia, the Citizen Military Forces (CMF) and the Australian Citizen Military Force (ACMF).\n\nInitially this also included the Australian Flying Corps (AFC) as part of the Australian Imperial Force (AIF). In 1920, the AFC became the Australian Air Corps, which became the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) on 31 March 1921. The land forces of Australia were renamed the Australian Army in 1980. In detail:\n"}
{"id": "2093132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093132", "title": "Jerry Gaskill", "text": "Jerry Gaskill\n\nJerry Wayne Gaskill (born December 27, 1957) is an American rock musician who is the drummer for the progressive metal band King's X.\n\nGaskill has been interested in making music and playing drums for as long as he can remember. His father bought him his first drum, a snare, at the age of 4. From there, he pieced together a full kit.\n\nHe grew up in a very musical family with both his dad and brother being guitar players. The three actually started an all-instrumental band called \"Jerry and the Knights\". Gaskill played his first bar gig when he was seven years old with this group and was paid $2 for his efforts.\n\n\"Jerry and the Knights\" played at different functions such as talent shows, wedding receptions, parties and so on until his mid-teens. He then joined a local band called Frog Ocean Road who he had admired. Gaskill played with them until he was 18, at which time he had a self professed \"Born Again\" experience. He then became involved in the local Christian music scene playing at churches and jamming with other like-minded musicians.\n\nIn 1978, Gaskill decided to attend Evangel College in Springfield, Missouri and moved there with the intention of becoming a Biblical Studies major. He never lost the musical bug and was quick to involve himself in the local music circles. He was soon introduced to singer Greg X. Volz who was putting a new band together and asked Gaskill to participate. They also asked bassist Doug Pinnick to move to Springfield and join the band. Pinnick accepted, but a month after his arrival, the project fell apart.\n\nGaskill was soon asked, along with Pinnick, to join the Phil Keaggy band (presumably through Keaggy's previous work with Volz) which they accepted. He went on a national tour with Keaggy for about a year. During the band's show in Springfield, Gaskill was asked by a member of the opening band if he would lend them his drums. That person happened to be Ty Tabor who was filling in for the drummer who had quit the band the night before.\n\nAt one point, Gaskill became involved in a demo project for the Tracy Zinn Band that had Tabor as a member. The two hit it off and were later involved in other projects together.\n\nAfter the Keaggy job, Gaskill and Pinnick (who had also been jamming with Tabor) decided to try getting their own band together. The group was rounded out by Tabor and guitarist Dan McCollam. They called themselves The Edge, then three years later Sneak Preview, which eventually morphed into King's X several years later.\n\nGaskill has enjoyed a long and storied career with King's X and continues with them to this day. The album \"Gretchen Goes to Nebraska\" was based in part on a story that he wrote. He has appeared as lead vocalist on 3 King's X tracks and is an integral part of their famous 3-part vocal harmonies.\n\nGaskill suffered a heart attack on February 25, 2012, and was rushed to a hospital where he underwent emergency surgery. After his release from hospital he posted a video message on Facebook, thanking everyone who had supported him through his illness and then married his long term partner, Julie, in Las Vegas. In October of the same year, Gaskill's Sea Bright, New Jersey home was completely destroyed by Superstorm Sandy. An internet campaign, via GiveForward.com, to raise $25,000 was immediately launched.\n\nAccording to the King's X Facebook page, Gaskill suffered another heart attack while recovering from a \"scheduled minor procedure\" on September 12, 2014 and was scheduled to get double bypass surgery within 72 hours. King's X canceled all future shows until further notice.\n\nIn addition to King's X, Gaskill has performed on the albums \"Let It Go\" by Galactic Cowboys, \"Red Line\" by the Texas blues guitarist Jay Hooks, Ty Tabor's solo album \"Safety\", Black Sugar Transmission's 2007 debut album (helmed by Andee Blacksugar, who also played guitar in Gaskill's solo band in 2005) and Doug Pinnick's Poundhound albums and Supershine project.\n\nGaskill released a solo album, \"Come Somewhere\", in April 2004. He sang all lead vocals as well as performed all drum, acoustic guitar, and some electric guitar tracks. It was produced by and featured his King's X cohort Ty Tabor, and was recorded at Tabor's Alien Beans Studios.\n\nGaskill released his second solo album, \"Love and Scars\", on October 30, 2015, and was produced by DA Karkos.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093136", "title": "George Archer", "text": "George Archer\n\nGeorge William Archer (October 1, 1939 – September 25, 2005) was an American professional golfer who won 13 events on the PGA Tour, including one major championship, the Masters in 1969.\n\nBorn in San Francisco, California, Archer was raised just south in San Mateo. He grew to tall, and as a boy he dreamed of a basketball career, but took up golf at San Mateo High School after working as a caddy at the Peninsula Golf and Country Club near his home. He was kicked off the high school basketball team because he missed too many practices due to golf.\n\nArcher turned professional in 1964 and claimed the first of 13 victories on the PGA Tour at the Lucky International Open the following year.\n\nThe leading achievement of his career was his win at the Masters in 1969. In the first round, he fired a 67, good for second place behind Billy Casper. His subsequent rounds of 73-69-72 earned him a one-stroke victory over runners-up Casper, Tom Weiskopf, and George Knudson.\n\nArcher's other top-10 finishes in the majors came at the U.S. Open (10th in 1969, fifth in 1971) and the PGA Championship (fourth in 1968).\n\nArcher was hampered by injuries throughout his career and had surgery on his left wrist (1975), back (1979) and left shoulder (1987). In 1996, he had his right hip replaced and two years later became the first man to win on the Senior PGA Tour (now the PGA Tour Champions) after having a hip replacement. He won 19 times on the Senior Tour between 1989 and 2000, although he did not win a senior major. Archer is also the only player in PGA Tour Champions history to win a tournament in each of the first three decades of its existence.\n\nArcher is considered one of the game's all-time great putters, and at one time held the PGA Tour record for fewest putts over four rounds with 94 putts at the Sea Pines Heritage in 1980 (1.3 per hole). The record stood for nine years, until broken by Kenny Knox in 1989.\n\nArcher was known as the \"Golfing Cowboy,\" due to a summer job in his youth at his friend and sponsor, Eugene Selvage's Lucky Hereford Ranch in Gilroy.\n\nArcher made Masters history in 1983 when he employed its first female caddy, his 19-year-old daughter Elizabeth, in the first year that outside caddies were allowed at Augusta National. He finished tied for 12th, his third-best at Augusta and final top-20 finish in a major. At the time Liz was a sophomore at Stanford University and had caddied for her father at twenty previous events; a member of the Cardinal track team, she threw the javelin and discus. She started caddying for him on tour in the summer of 1980, prior to her senior year at Gilroy High School.\n\nArcher died of Burkitt's lymphoma – a lymphatic system malignancy – in Incline Village, Nevada in 2005, several days before his 66th birthday. He was survived by his wife, Donna, and two daughters, Elizabeth and Marilyn. He played his final round of golf with his wife in nearby Truckee on August 25, just a month before his death.\n\nSix months after his death, Archer's widow, Donna, revealed in the March/April 2006 issue of \"Golf For Women\" magazine that he had suffered his entire life from a severe form of learning impairment. Despite years of effort and the consultation of many experts, he was never able to read more than the simplest sentences and could only write his own name. She reported that they never revealed this truth beyond their family and that Archer lived in constant fear that the secret of his illiteracy would be revealed.\n\nIn 2008, Donna created the George Archer Memorial Foundation for Literacy, a 501(c)(3) organization located in Incline Village, Nevada. The Foundation's mission is to raise funds to identify reading deficiencies, diagnose causes and effective treatments for learning disabilities, improve systems for training teachers, tutors and other educators in literacy issues, provide grants, stipends and scholarships for deserving students, and assist in the development of tools and techniques for the effective teaching of reading and writing skills. The Foundation's primary fundraiser is the George Archer Memorial Stroke of Genius Pro-Am golf tournament held every October since 2008 at the Peninsula Golf and Country Club, in San Mateo, California – the club at which Archer began his golf career.\n\n\n\nPGA Tour playoff record (4–3)\n\nSenior PGA Tour Tour playoff record (4–2)\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\nWD = withdrew<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093148", "title": "Bréguet 1050 Alizé", "text": "Bréguet 1050 Alizé\n\nThe Bréguet Br.1050 Alizé (French: \"Tradewind\") was a French carrier-based anti-submarine warfare aircraft. It was developed in the 1950s, based loosely on the second prototype Bréguet Vultur attack aircraft which had been modified into the Bréguet Br.965 Épaulard anti-submarine warfare aircraft.\n\nThe \"Alizé\" was a low-wing monoplane of conventional configuration powered by a single Rolls-Royce Dart turboprop engine. It had a CSF radar system with a retractable antenna dome in its belly. The cockpit accommodated a crew of three, including pilot, radar operator, and sensor operator. The pilot was seated in front on the left, the navigator in front on the right, and the sensor operator sat sideways behind them. The landing gear was of tricycle configuration, with the main gear retracting backwards into nacelles in the wings. The main gear had dual wheels, and the front part of the nacelles accommodated sonobuoys. The \"Alizé\" had a yoke-style arresting hook.\n\nThe internal weapons bay could accommodate a homing torpedo or depth charges, and underwing stores pylons could carry bombs, depth charges, rockets, or missiles. Typical underwing stores included 68 mm (2.68 in) rocket pods or AS.12 wire-guided antiship missiles.\n\nThe prototype Alizé first flew on 6 October 1956. It was exhibited at the Paris Air Show at Paris Le Bourget Airport in May 1957.\n\nA total of 89 examples of the \"Alizé\" were built between 1957 and 1962, including two preproduction prototypes. 75 production aircraft were acquired by the \"Aéronavale\", with initial service delivery in March 1959. The \"Alizé\" went into operation on the carriers \"Arromanches\", \"Clémenceau\" and \"Foch\", and were also used in shore-based training. 12 were acquired by the Indian Navy. Some sources say that there were five preproduction prototypes, which may mean some of the prototypes were brought up to production standard and passed on to the \"Aéronavale\"; and that India acquired 17 examples, which hints that they bought five used aircraft from the \"Aéronavale\".\n\nThe Indian Navy operated the \"Alizé\" from shore bases and from the light carrier . The \"Alizé\" was used for reconnaissance and patrol during India's 1961 liberation of Portuguese controlled Goa, and was also used for ASW patrol during the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971, during which one \"Alizé\" was shot down by a Pakistan Air Force F-104 Starfighter. It also sank three gunboats. The \"Alizé\" dwindled in numbers in the Indian Navy during the 1980s, was relegated to shore-based patrol in 1987. Nevertheless, they were employed that year in support of the Indian Peacekeeping Force's Operation Pawan in Sri Lanka, flying sorties against the LTTE and crippling the merchant ship Progress Light. The type was finally phased out in 1991, replaced in its duties by ASW helicopters.\n\nThe \"Aéronavale\" provided the \"Alizé\" with a series of upgrades. A modernization program performed in the early 1980s refitted 28 of the aircraft to the Br.1050M standard, featuring improved Thomson-CSF \"Iguane\" radar as used on the \"Atlantique\" NG ocean-patrol aircraft, new OMEGA radio navigation gear, and a new ARAR 12 radar and radio location (\"electronic support measures / ESM\") system.\n\nAnother upgrade program in the early 1990s fitted 24 of these aircraft with a new decoy system; a microcomputer-based data processing system; a datalink system; and other new avionics. Later in the decade, they were also fitted with the Thomson-CSF TTD Optronique Chlio forward-looking infrared (FLIR) imaging sensor. Despite the upgrades, by this time the \"Alizé\" was clearly not capable of hunting modern nuclear submarines, and so it was relegated to ocean surface patrol.\n\nAs late as 1997, the \"Aéronavale\" was still operating 24 examples for surface patrol. The \"Alizé\" was used operationally during the NATO air campaign against Yugoslavia over Kosovo in early 1999, with the aircraft flying off the carrier \"Foch\". The last \"Alizé\" was withdrawn from service in 2000 with the retirement of the \"Foch\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093149", "title": "British Football Association", "text": "British Football Association\n\nThe British Football Association was a short lived ruling body for the game of football. It was set up in 1884 in response to the attitude of the Football Association to the issue of professionalism.\n\nUntil the employment of professionals by Darwen and their success in reaching the quarter finals of the FA Cup in 1879, all teams had been amateur. There was a proposal by a London club before the match that any side not consisting entirely of amateurs should be barred from the Cup.\n\nThe FA Cup was initially contested by mostly southern, amateur teams but more professionally organised northern clubs began to dominate the competition during the early 1880s; \"The turning point, north replacing south, working class defeating upper and professionals impinging upon the amateurs' territory, came in 1883.\" Hitherto, public school sides had played a dribbling game punctuated by violent tackles, but a new passing style developed in Scotland was successfully adopted by some Lancashire teams, along with a more professional approach to training. Blackburn Olympic reached the final in March 1883 and defeated Old Etonians. In 1883 Accrington were expelled from the FA for paying players, while nearby Blackburn Rovers had also started to pay players, and the following season won the first of three consecutive FA Cups.\n\nThe FA initially tried to outlaw professionalism but, in the face of a threatened break-away association (the British Football Association was formed by 37 mainly northern and midlands-based clubs), was forced to permit payments to players in 1885 (the first Football League, established in 1888, featured six teams from northwest England and six from the midlands). This action by the FA was eventually to lead to the break-away and formation of the Amateur Football Association in 1907.\n\nA similar split in rugby led to the separate sports of rugby union and rugby league.\n"}
{"id": "2093150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093150", "title": "Mousetrapping", "text": "Mousetrapping\n\nMousetrapping is a technique used by some websites (often tech support scam sites) to keep visitors from leaving their website, either by launching an endless series of pop-up ads, redirects or by re-launching their website in a window that cannot be easily closed (sometimes this window runs like a stand-alone application, and the taskbar and the browser's menu become inaccessible). Many websites that do this also employ browser hijackers to reset the user's default homepage.\n\nOne way to end the cycle may be to use keyboard shortcuts (like Alt+F4 in Windows) instead of the mouse to close the windows. Multiple windows can be closed quickly with this method, although it may not always work if there is a resident program which is opening them. Browser extensions which disable scripting for all but a trusted whitelist of sites, such as NoScript Security Suite, can be a useful defence against mousetrapping and malicious sites.\n\nThe Federal Trade Commission has brought suits against mousetrappers, charging that the practice is a deceptive and unfair competitive practice, in violation of section 5 of the FTC Act. Typically, mousetrappers register URLs with misspelled names of celebrities (e.g. \"BrittnaySpears.com\") or companies (e.g. \"BettyCroker.com\" and \"WallStreetJournel.com\"). Thus, if someone seeking the \"Betty_Crocker\" Website typed \"Betty_Croker\", the person would become ensnared in the mousetrapper's system. Once the viewer is at the site, a Javascript or a click induced by promises of free samples redirects the viewer to a URL and regular site of the mousetrapper's client-advertiser, who (the FTC said in the Zuccarini case) pays him 10 to 25 cents for capturing and redirecting each potential customer. An FTC press release explaining why it opposes mousetrapping states:\n\nSchemes that capture consumers and hold them at sites against their will while exposing Internet users, including children, to solicitations for gambling, psychics, lotteries, and pornography must be stopped.\n\nSome major, well-known U.S. corporations have used mousetrapping to keep viewers on their web pages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093154", "title": "Mr. Young", "text": "Mr. Young\n\nMr. Young is a Canadian television series that premiered on March 1, 2011 on YTV. The series was filmed in Burnaby, British Columbia. The series was created by Dan Signer (who also worked on shows such as \"The Suite Life on Deck\" and \"A.N.T. Farm\"), and stars Brendan Meyer, Matreya Fedor, and Gig Morton as attendees of Finnegan High School. Further main cast includes Kurt Ostlund, Emily Tennant, and Milo Shandel. The show ended its run on November 28, 2013 with three seasons and 80 episodes. The first 2 seasons are available for streaming on Netflix in the United States, United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand.\n\n\"Mr. Young\" centers on Adam Young (Brendan Meyer), who graduated from university at the age of 14. He decides to come back to high school as a science teacher to live the high school \"experience\". He reunites with childhood best friend Derby (Gig Morton) and encounters the school bully, Slab (Kurt Ostlund), and a student in his class whom he has a crush on, named Echo (Matreya Fedor). However, because he is only 14, his students have little respect for him, and he often gets into trouble with the principal for his childlike behaviour.\n\n\n\nThe series was created and executive produced by Dan Signer. The series was filmed in front of a live studio audience at 5828 Byrne Road, in Burnaby, British Columbia.\n\nThe series began taping on Thursday, September 30, 2010 and production of Season 1 was completed on Friday, April 15, 2011. Through their Facebook page, YTV announced on March 31, 2011 that \"Mr. Young\" was the No. 1 show on their network. On April 29, 2011 the series was renewed for a second season. Filming of Season 2 began in early July 2011 and continued through to January 2012. On April 29, 2011 the series was renewed for a second season. Filming of Season 2 began in early July 2011 and continued until January 2012. Afterwards, the show had a third season of 28 episodes, bringing the episode total to 80 episodes. This third and final seasons aired from October 16, 2012 to November 28, 2013.\n\nOn September 7, 2011, Corus Entertainment's Nelvana Enterprises and Thunderbird Films announced that they had sold the live-action comedy series to Disney XD channels United States, United Kingdom, Ireland, South Africa, Australia, and New Zealand. Nelvana Enterprises is the international distribution agent for \"Mr. Young\", while Nelvana and Thunderbird are co-distributing the series in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093157", "title": "Deputy President of South Africa", "text": "Deputy President of South Africa\n\nThe Deputy President of South Africa is the deputy head of government of South Africa. They are a member of the National Assembly and the Cabinet. The Deputy President is constitutionally required to \"assist the President in the execution of the functions of government\", and may be assigned any government portfolio by presidential proclamation. The Deputy President performs the duties of the President of South Africa when the President is outside the country's borders, unable to fulfill the duties of the office, or when the Presidency is vacant.\n\nUnder the interim constitution (valid from 1994 to 1996), there was a Government of National Unity, in which a member of parliament from the largest opposition party was entitled to a position as deputy president. Along with Mbeki, the previous State President, F. W. de Klerk also served as Deputy President in his capacity as the leader of the National Party, then the second-largest party in the new Parliament. De Klerk later resigned and went into opposition with his party. A voluntary coalition government continues to exist under the new constitution (adopted in 1996), although there have been no appointments of opposition politicians to the post of deputy president.\n\nThe official living residences of the Deputy President are Oliver Tambo House in Pretoria, Highstead in Cape Town and Dr John L Dube House in Durban.\n\nThe Deputy President's term of office is not fixed by law. The Deputy President's term begins when he or she is appointed by the President from amongst members of the National Assembly and takes a prescribed oath. \n\nThe Deputy President's term is ended by one of four constitutional mechanisms: dismissal by the President, a successful 'motion of no confidence in the President' by the National Assembly, a successful 'motion of no confidence excluding the President' by the National Assembly, or a newly elected President's assumption of office. Presumably, a statement of resignation would also be sufficient to end a Deputy President's term of office.\n\nDepending on the extent of any informal roles and functions of the Deputy President depend on the specific relationship between the president and deputy president, but often the roles include tasks like:\n\n<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "2093162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093162", "title": "Bagamanoc, Catanduanes", "text": "Bagamanoc, Catanduanes\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality of Bagamanoc is located at the north-eastern part of the province of Catanduanes directly facing the vast Pacific Ocean. Its total land is , and is about north from the capital town of Virac. Its location is somewhat disadvantageous in its quest for development because of its distance form the capital town and most in particular it is open to the sea, whereby typhoon surge often wrought havoc to the shorelines particularly to the built-up areas during typhoons.\n\nBagamanoc is located between latitude 13*53’00” and longitude 124*11’00” to 124*23’00”. It is bounded on the eastern side by the Pacific Ocean, on the north-western side by the municipality of Pandan, western side by the municipality of Caramoran, and on the south by the municipality of Panganiban.\n\nAlmost 83% of the entire land area of the municipality are mountainous and hilly wherein 56% (43.65 square kilometers) of it is covered by thick forest and 44% or 34.30 square kilometers are planted with abaca, coconut, root crops and perennial trees. The lowland or plain area is about 17% of the total land are or 15.96 square kilometers which comprises the built-up areas, rice land, diversified agricultural lands and others. The mountainous area is located at the western part of the municipality and the hilly or rolling terrain lies eastward to the coastal areas, while the lowland or plain areas are situated along the coastal and river banks.\n\nThe structure of the earth's surface of the town is composed predominantly of upper Miocene-Pliocene (shale and sandstone sequence) located along the western and northern part of the municipality. Likewise Recent (Alluvium) layers is found along the coastal river bank areas and Cretaceous Paleocene (metamorphic rock) and Pliocene Pleistocene (conglomerate formation) are found at Late and Panay island.\n\nThe municipal soil is composed of four (4) types, namely: Undifferential Mountain soil, Louisiana Clay, Hydrosol, Bantog Clay and traces of Beach Sand mostly along the coastal areas.\n\nLike other municipalities of the eastern section of the province and province itself, the climate of the municipality is type II of the Coronas Classification for climatic zones, best described as having no distinct dry season with a very pronounced rainfall, usually heavy during the month from October to January. Typhoons are very much prevalent in this locality due to its geographical positioning fronting the Pacific Ocean.\n\nBagamanoc is politically subdivided into 18 barangays.\n\nAt what is known as Bagatabao, but more island of the swamp, Bagamanocnons now called Taraga, there was already a chicken raising settlement place on the inhospitable plateau of Panay Island (Catanduanes).\n\nThe settlement was bounded on the east and north by the sea, blocked by a swamp and a hostile hill on the south and pressed by the crocodile-infested mouth of what is now known as the Bagamanoc River on the west. Confined to a limited territory by natural forces, the settlement could hardly feed and shelter itself. Moreover, frequent raids by corsairs from Mindanao, Jolo or Borneo for slaves posed a serious problem to their existence.\n\nOne day, a daring and adventurous young man from the tribe forced his way across the mouth of the river to look for rattan needed for the repair of his future bride's family house. Going westward by the shoreline, he finally turned left for the business of venture but before he cut an uphill distance, he saw what appeared to be a chicken flying along just above the tallest leaves of pandan shrubs festooning the sea. Back in his tribe, he told the clan on what he saw of the beauty of the place, its abundance with food and building materials and the defense is offered from the pirate's raid. But as the place has no name to say when referring to that “discovered land” every time anybody talk of the place, they would call it “BAGAMANOC” which means the place was like a “chicken” the very meaning of Bagamanoc.\n\nTo detect the coming of the Moro raids, the people erected a watchtower where the sea laps at the shore nearest the present Municipal Hall. In spite of the tower, many Bagamanocnons still fell into the corsairs’ hand. When the Spaniards came, they found the place a thriving community. They converted the people into Christianity and made a settlement into a municipality under a governadorcillo. Under Spain, the town people constructed a concrete church and municipal hall of stones, limes, molasses and eggs. However, even under the Spaniard rule, Bagamanocnons did not fully submit to the Spanish dominion, although fully sold out to Christianity. During the revolution of 1898-1901, the Bagamanocnon relied their support to the Filipino Revolutionist. In fact, a bloody skirmish took place at Mapulang Labo, where then Apolonio Cueva skillfully beheaded an American Officer mounted on a horse. When the Americans reorganized the municipal government, the town was reduced to a mere town of Viga, later of Payo, until Bagamanoc became a municipality again in 1950.\n\nBagamanoc is used to be called a small town of big people and properly so. She had produced a hundred of professionals scattered all over the archipelago who in their modest way are making a name for themselves and for their birthplace. The country's representative to the “Tokyo Olympic Games” in 1924. in the discus throwing event came from this town and the second Catanduanes congressman under an independent Philippines hails from here. As of lately and during the time where the American Bases are still here in the Philippines,Bagamanoc has also been the site of the LORAN ( Long Range Navigation Facilities ) Station primarily installed to protect the country from external threats, among others.\n\nBagamanoc was created from barrios of Quigaray, Hinipagan, Sukhan in the island of Panay; Lati, in the island of Lati; Bacac, Hinipaan, Bugao, Minaili and Bagamanoc of the municipality of Panganiban by virtue of Republic Act No. 491 which was approved on June 12, 1950.\n\nThe municipal councils of Bagamanoc and Panganiban agreed on the boundary of the two towns on June 12, 1952. The agreement was approved by the provincial council of Catanduanes on July 12, 1952. The Congress formalized the agreement by passing Republic Act No. 1038 which was approved on June 12, 1954. The boundary was stated thus:\n\nIn the , the population of Bagamanoc was people, with a density of .\n\nThe major crops in the municipality are food crops (rice, corn, root crops, vegetables and legumes) and cash crops (abaca and coconut). Large parcel of riceland are situated at barangays Quezon, Santa Tersa, Antipolo and Bagatabao Magsaysay, and Bugao. Abaca and coconut plantation are found inn all barangay, except barangays Poblacion, Santa Mesa and Santa Teresa.\n\nThe municipality is not identified as a key Livestock Development Area but there are areas in some barangays which are conducive to livestock raising particularly carabao and cattle. These are barangays San Isidro and Suchan. Livestock raising in the municipality are mostly backyard and as work animals.\n\nIdentified fishing development areas are the barangays of Quezon, Batabao, Quigaray and Suchan. Most of these fishponds are now for family subsistence and not for commercial production due to its physical state. Asides from the fishponds, large fishing ground abounds in the locality being a coastal area. These are the Bagamanoc Bay. Loroman, Late and Quigaray Cove.\n\nThe municipality does not have any big commercial establishment nor have much trade and commercial activities to speak of. Existing are about 96 locally registered and license commercial establishment throughout the municipality ranging from a small eatery to retail and wholesale stores. Most of the bigger stores are found at the municipal commercial strip or commercial business district.\n\nBesides from the commercial strip, the municipality has the Municipal Public Market, which is strategically located near the slaughterhouse, Municipal Training Hall and the Bus and Jeepney Terminal.\n\nAlmost all the commercial consumers products are being bought at commercial establishments at Virac, which are brought home daily loaded on a passenger's jeepney/bus or a cargo truck. Agricultural crops are sold directly to buying commercial establishment at Virac.\n\nThere is no specific tourism activities in the municipality, although there are potential areas endowed with natural attributes and resources that are conducive to recreation, leisure and other wholesome experiences which can provide the purpose for visitors, excursionist and vacationist. Basically the locality is coastal, thus there sprawling beaches, lagoons, shoals, coves wherein one can frolics and do some fishing. There are also some river and falls where in anybody could have some picnic or excursion. There is also the former LORAN Station Buildings (US Coast Guard Station) located atop a hill and overlooking coastal strips of beaches and the Pacific Ocean.\n\nAmong those potential sites are the falls at Paday along Panuto and Maragkiw River at Bacak, Pantalan at Caningan River, Quezon and Cagnipa at Barangay San Vicente overlooking the sea and a nsilet. Included are the strip of beaches like Bugao-Pogtangan Beach, Late Beach and Cabusiw-Dayhagan Beaches along the blue seas and corals where in one can do swimming and scuba diving.\n\nThe municipality is an agricultural base community whereby necessary resources for agro-industrial undertakings are available. Abundant raw materials from the forest and other agricultural products could be utilized for a cottage or home industry. The vast seas could be tapped as source for raw materials for fish and marine processing business and other livelihood activities for the local fisher folks. Besides form the abundant raw materials, adequate labor force is readily available.\n\nThere are no established industry in the locality, what present are small scale rice mills, an off and on small home furniture, leather wear and nipa shingle making.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093163", "title": "Baras, Catanduanes", "text": "Baras, Catanduanes\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe name is derived from the \"badas\" plant, once abundant in this location. Yet, as to what kind of vegetation \"badas\" is, is a subject of conjecture. Some believed that it was a kind of bamboo, now called \"bagacay\". Others believed it to be some sturdy tree, but the majority believed that it is a wild rattan plant abounding in the surrounding mountains. Nevertheless, one common belief is the fact that this \"badas\" was a source of materials for making spears, a weapon used by the native to repel the raiders and pirates.\n\nIt is also believed that \"badas\" was a much in-demand material for building the native huts. Because of its abundance in the area, villagers called the place \"Cabadasan\"\n\nThe Municipality of Baras is one of the eleven municipalities of the island Province of Catanduanes within the Region-V (Bicol Region). It is bordered on the north by the municipality of Gigmoto, on the south by the municipality of Bato, on the east by Kaladapan Bay and the Philippines Sea; and on the west by the municipality of San Miguel. Traveling by land transportation, the municipality is approximately one and a half hour ride from the capital town of Virac.\n\nThe surface landscape within Baras is made up of varying slopes. It is dominated however by slopes ranging 18-30% (Rolling to hilly) with land area of 38.0700 square kilometers or 49.830% and 30-50% (Steep Hills and Mountains) with land area of 29.6200 square kilometers or 38.770%. comprising the last slope surfaces are slopes 0-3% (level to very gently sloping) with land area of 7.2600 square kilometers or 9.500% and 50%-Above (very steep hills and mountains).\n\nBased on the land classification, the Municipality of Baras is divided into Alienable and Disposable lands and Forest lands. Alienable and Disposable Lands occupy land area of about 57.600 square kilometers or 75.390%. On the other hand, Forest Lands occupy only about 18.800 square kilometers or 24.610%\n\nThe municipality of Baras possesses varying soil types particularly Bantog Clay, Mountain soil, Atimodian Clay, and Luciana Clay. Most dominant soil types are Luciana Clay occupying about 56.1700 square kilometers or 73.590% and mountain soil occupying about 17.2800 square kilometers or 22.620%. The least soil types are Bantog Clay with land area of only about 2.1900 square kilometers or 2.860% and Atimodian Clay with land area of only about 0.7600 square kilometers or 0.930%.\n\nThe municipality of Baras comprises twenty-nine (29) barangays of which six (6) are urban barangays and twenty-three (23) are rural barangays. Urban barangays have a total land area of only 1.0200 square kilometers or 1.332%, made up of Barangays Bagong Sirang, Buenavista, Eastern Poblacion, San Lorenzo, Quezon and Western Poblacion. On the other hand, rural barangays comprise the 96.668%, made up of Barangays Abihao, Agban, Batolinao, Benticayan, Caragumihan, Danao, Genitligan, Guinsaanan, J.M. Alberto, Macutal, Moning, Nagbarorong, Osmena, Paniquihan, P. Teston, Putsan, Sagrada, Rizal, Puraran, San Miguel, Salvacion, Santa Maria and Tilod.\n\nBarangays with smaller land area are Barangays Bagong Sirang, Buenavista, Eastern Poblacion, San Lorenzo, Quezon, Western Poblacion and Santa Maria. On the contrary, barangays with the largest land areas are Agban, Benticayan, Genitligan, J.M. Alberto, San Miguel and Tilod.\n\nOnce called \"BADAS\" during the early Spanish Colonization of the archipelago. Some elders recall that Baras, centuries back was once a progressive fishing village located over a small mountain projecting towards the sea on the western side of Baras Bay. The poblacion was its cemetery and the cemetery now was its former poblacion site. The old site was chosen because it was an elevated area overlooking the sea.\n\nThe villagers could easily see approaching pirates that occasionally plundered the sea, giving them ample time to evacuate their families and prepare for the encounter. Several Skirmishes had been taught in the present poblacion.\n\nExcavation in the Church Plaza reveals human remains of evaders. The pirates gone, the villagers later settled in what are now Baras. A splintered group of insurrecturs headed by a certain CATALINO CATAKUTAN who was facing the advantage of the insurrection taking place in the Southern Tagalog region, braved the rough seas to set a place in the long quest for Philippine Independence in the Island, forced by the gusty Southeast Monsoon wind they finally set anchor in the once rich fishing village called \"Cabadasan\" posing as fisherman.\n\nBy befriending the villagers and at the same time working on the growing discontent among the people against the tyrannical rule of Capitan CARLOS MACAPUGAY who was then Bat’s town executive, the rebel grouped the men folk of the village to form a fierce fighting bond.\n\nOut of this uprising led by Catalino Catakutan, the umbilical cord through which Cabadasan ruled was detached and the town of Baras was born.\n\nMarried to Maria Timola from Bato, Capitan Catalino Catakutan, with the burning desire for independence, did not live long to set office in the entire province. The Spaniards caught up with him while attending a wedding feast. Tortured and chained by the neck, he was paraded around the Poblacion of Bato to serve as warning to the people.\n\nHe was hanged near the church of Bato. In his stead, Capitan Mariano Teologo was installed as Bara’s first town executive on May 11, 1897. Its original barrios were Tilod, Macutal, Paniquihan and Gigmoto.\n\nBaras was founded as a town on May 11, 1897, and Capitan Mariano Teologo served as its first town executive until the end of 1897. To minister to the town’s spiritual needs was Pablo Zuniega, Baras' first parish priest, whose tenure ended in the middle of 1904.\n\nThe early year of Baras as a town was a period of difficult adjustment. In 1905, Capitan Quirico Arcilla, the town’s fourth executive, started the construction of a semi-permanent municipal building called \"TRIBUNAL\". A dynamic and a dominant figure in Baras politics, his centering effort in the administration of local affairs was well as his proven integrity, he enabled the town to experience a period of prosperity. In 1906, Capitan Alvaro Vergara succeeded him. In 1907 due to financial difficulties the town was reverted to a barrio status. A few days later after its reversion into a barrio of Bato, its executive appointed Reymundo Tanael as Cabeza (barrio executive). Baras existed as a barrio up to the last days of 1909.\n\nIn a period of 3 years as a barrio, cabezas ruled it, namely: Cabeza Raymundo Tanael, Agustin Tanael, Felix Teologo, Lucas Arcilla and Catalino Guerrero. Before the end of the year 1909, civic, religious and business leaders of Baras demanded from the ruling governing power that it be re-created back into a municipality.\n\nAnd, in 1910, Baras reverted into a town for the second time. Its first executive who was then called by the title of presidente municipal was Quirico Arcilla. Quirico Arcilla was succeeded by Alvaro Vergara in 1912. In 1914, appointed to steer the reigns of government was Capitan Juan Pablo, a Tagalog immigrant who found a local belle for his life partner. In the election of 1915, he lost to Pedro Vergara, only to be elected again in 1918. From then, Baras moved on experiencing the test of time as a municipality. In 1927 Flaviano Camu, then constructed Camu Street connecting it to San Lorenzo Street. In 1929 the present sight of barrio Putsan was constructed.\n\nIn May 1933, the Bato-Baras road was opened to traffic. In 1935 the gold boom reached Baras, an American firm headed by a certain Mr. Torchand dug sitio Banog in Agban and started the gold mines in Agban, at the same time the abaca and copra industries, for which Baras had been famous, were at their peak. For some unknown reasons the firm had to close shop at the end of 1938.\n\nOn 10 December 1941, or one year after typhoon \"Oguis\", a Japanese fleet, consisting of an aircraft carrier and a destroyer, landed at Batalay in Bato, swooped down on Barrio Guinsaanan in Baras, releasing three medium-sized bombs hitting Sayao rock off the coast of Guinsaanan, making Baras a ghost town overnight.\n\nAfter a month with no governing officials reporting to their office, the incumbent Mayor Victor Tanael returned from hiding and normalcy returned once again. Other municipal officials reported to their offices. In the early part of 1943, Mayor Tanael died of sickness and so, the Japanese occupation government appointed Mr. Dionisio Tolledo as Mayor, Atty. Severiano de Leon as Municipal Judge, Mr. Pedro Teston as Chief of Police, Mr. Reynato Magistrado and Jaime Templonuevo as Policemen. They were the only officials appointed.\n\nIn the early morning of February 1944, the town folks were surprised by rain of bullets. Major Salvador Rodulfo aka \"PHANTOM\" of Barangay Tilod, Baras, fresh from his guerilla exploits in Albay, landed at Tilod with soldiers and started organizing independent guerilla outfit, later to be known as the Catanduanes Liberators Battalion. Baras became the sanctuary of the resistance movement in the province.\n\nIt was his group who was responsible for the annihilation of all Japanese soldiers in the island, killing most of them and capturing the remaining that were caught alive and raising to the ground their garrisons and hideouts.\n\nImmediately after the liberation of the country from the Japanese warriors in 1945, President Osmeña appointed some Municipal Heads of the town.\n\nIn 1951, the barrios of San Vicente, Gigmoto, Biong and Dororian were transferred to then newly created town of Gigmoto.\n\nUnder the administration of Mayor Chito Chi,Baras town has just received a Certificate of Recognition for ranking number one in the collection of business taxes among the 5th income class municipalities in the entire Bicol Region that exceeded the target amount. Mayor Chito Chi was defeated by Rodel V. Abichuela, a lawyer by profession, in the elections of 2013.\n\nIn the , the population of Baras, Catanduanes, was people, with a density of .\n\nCapitan Mariano Teologo ... 1897-1898\nCapitan Vicente Guerrero... 1899-1900\nCapitan Jose Patrocinio Rodulfo...1901-1903\nCapitan Quirico Arcilla ...1904-1905\nCapitan Alvaro Vergara ... 1906\n\nCabeza Raymundo Tanael ... January - July, 1907\nCabeza Agustin Tanael ... August - December, 1907\nCabeza Felix Teologo ... January - July, 1908\nCabeza Lucas Arcilla ... August - December, 1908\nCabeza Catalino Guerrero ... January - December, 1909\n\nPresidente Municipal Quirico Arcilla ... 1910-1911\nPresidente Municipal Alvaro Vergara ... 1912-1913\nPresidente Municipal Juan Pablo ... 1914-1915\nPresidente Municipal Pedro Vergara ... 1916-1917\nPresidente Municipal Juan Pablo ...1918-1919\nPresidente Municipal Cristobal Guerrero ...1920-1921\nPresidente Municipal Pablo Tariman ... 1922-1923\nPresidente Municipal Victoriano Tanael (Successor)...1923-1924\nPresidente Municipal Martin Toledana ... 1924-1925\nPresidente Municipal Antonio Tulay ... 1925-1926\nPresidente Municipal Flaviano Camu ... 1926-1928\nPresidente Municipal Roman Rodulfo ... 1928-1930\nPresidente Municipal Martin Toledana ... 1930-1931\nPresidente Municipal Honuario Dayawon ... 1931-1933\nPresidente Municipal Pedro Beraquit ... 1934-1936\nMunicipal Mayor Ramon Templonuevo ... 1937-1941\nMunicipal Mayor Victor Tanael ... 1941-1942\nMunicipal Mayor Dionisio Tolledo ... 1942-1944\nMunicipal Mayor Silvino Joson ... 1945-1946\nMunicipal Mayor Placida Beraquit ... 1947-1948\nMunicipal Mayor Godofredo Tayam ... 1948-1951\nMunicipal Mayor Pedro Teston ... 1952-1955\nMunicipal Mayor Alfredo Tanael ... 1956-1959\nMunicipal Mayor Pedro Beraquit ... 1960-1963\nMunicipal Mayor Amador Teston ... 1964-1967\nMunicipal Mayor David Templonuevo(Successor)... September–December, 1967\nMunicipal Mayor Temis Teves ... 1968-1971\nMunicipal Mayor Serafin Sarmiento ... 1972-1986\nMunicipal Mayor Jesus Torrente (Officer-In-Charge)... 1986-1987\nMunicipal Mayor Serafin Sarmiento ... 1988-1995\nMunicipal Mayor Jorge Tanael ... 1995-1998\nMunicipal Mayor Serafin Sarmiento ... 1998-2001\nMunicipal Mayor Jose J. Teves, Jr. ... 2001-2010\nMunicipal Mayor Chito S. Chi ... 2010-2013\nMunicipal Mayor Rodel V. Abichuela ...2013-2016\nMunicipal Mayor Chito S. Chi ... 2016 – present\n\n"}
{"id": "2093164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093164", "title": "Bato, Catanduanes", "text": "Bato, Catanduanes\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe Spanish colonizers, who surveyed the early settlers of the area, recorded the name \"Bato\" and later this became the town's name. There are several unproven theories when and why the town was named \"Bato\", like it came from the name of the \"water Wells\", or it came from the Tagalog word \"bato\", meaning \"rock\". Another legend states that a Spaniard asked a settler woman the name of the settlement, and she replied \"Bato\". There is no certainty whether the woman understood the question or not, whether she referred to her own name or the name of the settlement itself, or to their early occupations of the area.\n\nBato is located at the south-eastern portion of Catanduanes and is bounded on the north by the municipality of San Miguel; on the north-east by the municipality of Baras; on the east by the Philippine Sea; on the south by Cabugao Bay and on the west of Virac, the capital town of Catanduanes which is just from Bato.\n\nStability and permeability of basic rock formation could be seen in the geologic map the existence of fault line along barangays Oguis, Sipi, Binanuahan, Cabugao and San Andres. These areas are considered critical especially in terms of development as urban expansion. Like other municipalities in the province of Catanduanes, Bato has many mineral deposits like gold, manganese, coal and copper.\n\nThe municipality of Bato is composed of five kinds of soils: hydrosol, mountain soil, alimodian clay loam, Louisiana clay, and San Miguel silt loam.\n\nThe elevation rises from sea level to about above sea level. The flat lands are mostly found along the coast of Cabugao Bay along the banks of the Bato River. These flat lands with a slope of 0-3% occupies an average area of 25-30% of the entire area of Bato. The Poblacion which is located along the eastern side of the Bato River is among the barangays having this slope, characterized to be level to nearly level land. However, due to its location, the Poblacion together with the adjoining barangays frequently suffer floods. The eastern portion of Bato which faces the Pacific Ocean has a slope ranging between 3-30% slope. These areas shield the lowlands of the municipality from the incoming winds of the Pacific. These areas are mostly planted with orchards, hard wood trees and abaca.\n\nThe Bato River stretches as far as Viga to Cabugao Bay. Once it was abundant in marine life but due to erosion and consistent flooding, the riverbed has been dumped with soil and this caused the river to get shallow and dry up. In the southern part of the Bato River is a delta, locally known as the Napo. Here farmers grow their agriculture such as peanuts, sweet potatoes, corn, beans, coconuts and palms. It is also the site for settling carabaos.\n\nThe river divides Bato into the east and west district. The Bato bridge, the longest in the Bicol region, spans the river from Baranggay Tilis to Baranggay Sipi. The old bridge is located in Baranggay Balongbong, and it was destroyed during the flooding of supertyphoon Rosing in 1995.\n\nBato is politically subdivided into 27 Barangays.\nLike other towns in the pacific island, Bato is frequented by typhoons. This can happen up to 20 times per year, with some typhoons developing into really devastating calamities that can level entire towns. Flooding ensues in the Poblacion due to the river overflowing its banks.\n\nOtherwise, the weather is a standard tropical weather, with the dry season settling in as early as January, and the wet season starting on June. Monsoon seasons pick up during the -ber months, in which the locals expect more typhoons to come.\n\nIt has been known that the early Muslim settlers came from Borneo and Malaysia during the 13th century before the Spanish colonization. Many of these Muslim settlers were traders and carried their names like \"Bato\" who started their settlements in the area and later spread to the other regions of Visayas, Mindanao, and Luzon. Many Bato's ascendants and descendant's names originated from the three Bato's places in the Philippines (the other two being Bato, Camarines Sur, and Bato, Leyte).\n\nIn the , the population of Bato, Catanduanes, was people, with a density of .\n\nWith the present population of 19,269, Bato has 3,712 households, thereby placing the average family size at 5 members. It has a total of 3,667 occupied dwelling units. Of this dwelling units, 1,908 or 52.03% used concrete/brick/stone as their outer walls followed by bamboo/sawali/cogon and nipa which composes 29.42%. Asbestos/glass is the least used which accounts for only 7 houses or 0.19%.\n\nDwelling units have also been classified into single houses, duplex, multi-unit residential, institutional, living quarters and others. Thus of the total number of households, 99% or 3,644 occupies single house while the rest of 1% are either duplex or multi unit residential.\n\nThe municipality of Bato has two (2) major health facilities. These include one (1) hospital and one (1) rural health unit, which is located in Barangay Tamburan and Poblacion respectively. There used to be eight (8) barangay health stations located in barangays Batalay, Bote, San Roque, Bagumbayan, Buenavista, Binanuahan, Sibacungan, and Cagraray.\n\nThe Bato Maternity and Children's Hospital which is under the administration of the Provincial Government of Catanduanes is catering to the needs of the three (3) municipalities, namely: Bato, Baras, and San Miguel. It has a capacity of 50 beds whose services include consultations, admissions and minor surgeries. On the other hand, the Rural Health unit, which is under the administration of the Municipal Government of Bato, serves the needs of the 27 barangays of the municipality. Its services are medical/surgical services, laboratory services, family planning and women's health services, oral rehydration therapy, TB Control, immunization, medico legal and social services, environmental health services, pre-marriage counseling, delivery calls and nutrition services.\n\nIn 1999, the Office of the Municipal Civil Registrar posted a live birth of 307, 159 of which are males and 148 are females. Likewise it recorded 89 deaths in age group 50 years and over. The Municipal Health Office for the same year recorded a crude birth rate of 27.47% and an infant mortality rate of 0.83%.\n\nAlmost 35.05% of the total population of the municipality or 7,415 comprises the school-going age population. The primary school-going population aged 6–10 years old are 2,570; the intermediate school-going population aged 11–12 years old are 993; the secondary school-going population aged 13–16 are 1,858 and the tertiary school-going population aged 17–21 are 1,994.\n\nA survey of the actual enrollment revealed that there is an enrollment participation rate of 90.43%. This could be interpreted that for every 100 children aged 6–14 only 90 are enrolled. For secondary education out of 1,858 only 1,359 are enrolled.\n\nA tertiary school is not present in the municipality, however post-secondary vocational courses are being offered by the school founded by then mayor, Andres T.Torres, the Cabugao School of Handicraft and Cottage Industries (CSHCI) which is now under the administration and management of the TESDA. Originally, CSHCI was established to cater free secondary education to the people of Cabugao and other neighboring barangays and municipalities.\n\nProtective services are being served by the police force, the firemen and the barangay brigades. All in all these force totals 164, broken down as follows: 17 policemen, 4 firemen, and 143 members of the barangay brigades.\n\nThere is a single fire engine for the Bato Fire Brigade, which also responds to fires in neighbouring towns (and when the incident is really disastrous, to other distant town within the island).\n\nDue to the absence of a PNP Building, the police station is located at the Municipal Hall. The Barangay Brigades of Bato with a force of 143 could be found all throughout the different barangays.\n\nThe municipality of Bato avails of the social welfare services of the government agency popularly known as the Department of Social Welfare and Development. This agency has two devolved personnel for Bato. Its services are extended to all the urban and rural barangays of the municipality and include among other: family life education and counseling, day care services, peer group service, supplemental feeding, relief rehabilitation and referral for medical care.\n\nThe organizations present in this municipalities are: Senior Citizens Organization, Women's Organization and Parents Committee. Barangay Aroyao Pequeno has the greatest number of these organizations while the rest have the same number and type of these organizations.\n\nThe present sports and recreational facilities of the municipality include billiards halls, public library, cockpit arena, basketball and volleyball courts, beaches and scenic spots as well as waterfalls resorts. Twenty-six out of twenty-seven barangays has an existing barangay plaza, which is being utilized for outdoor sports activities, community gatherings, and socialization.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093165", "title": "Caramoran, Catanduanes", "text": "Caramoran, Catanduanes\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe main sources of livelihood of the town are growing rice, coconuts, and lasa and fishing. The white beaches and clean sea water of Toytoy and Sabang, the water falls of Ab-haw, Awinis and Garagag are some of the attractions, and together with the Hilacan River, are the main source of water for irrigation.\n\nThe municipality of Caramoran is located in the northern part of the island province of Catanduanes, about from the capital town of Virac. From Tabaco, Albay, it can be reached by chartering a small passenger/cargo motorboat direct to Caramoran, or commercial ferry services like the \"M/V Eugenia\", \"Starferry\", or the fast sea vessel \"M/V Calixta\" to San Andres (Calolbon). From Virac or San Andres, a passenger jeepney or mini-bus can be taken to Caramoran.\n\nThe municipality has the largest land area of the municipalities in the province. It has a total land area of which is 16.7% of the total land area of the province.\n\nCaramoran is bounded on the north by the municipality of Pandan, on the east by the municipalities of Viga, Panganiban and Bagamanoc, on the south by the municipalities of San Andres and Virac, on the west by Maqueda Channel.\n\nCaramoran is politically subdivided into 27 barangays.\n\nCaramoran has a fair climate with two seasons, the dry season which starts during the months of April to August, and the wet season that occurs during September to March.\n\nGusty winds from the north-east occur during January to March, and from October to December. Typhoons occur in mid-year and in the later part of the year.\n\nThe early Spanish missionaries who came to the Philippines landed in Napacahan, a sitio in Tubli and established a parish, which lasted for many years. In the parish church, St. John the Baptist had been venerated until this day as the Patron Saint (feast day June 24).\n\nEarly Caramoran history disclosed the fact that the town originated in Napacahan, but due to relentless and repeated Muslim piracy in the 17th to the 18th century, the town was transferred to its present site Caramoran poblacion where the Muslim pirates could not anchor because of barrier reefs.\n\nOver a hundred years after Spanish Sovereignty was established in 1570, Caramoran was founded as a town in 1676 side by side with the Catholic Church.\n\nIn the early colonial era, Catanduanes was only composed of two towns. The first, Viga, was founded in 1619 under the incumbency of Governor-General Manuel de Leon. In 1676, he established another town, which is now the municipality of Caramoran.\n\nThere are at least two possible origins of the name Caramoran. Old people of the town of Caramoan in Camarines Sur theorized that since their town is only separated almost 2 kilometers by Maqueda Channel from Caramoran in Catanduanes, the place also abound in “cara”, the turtle’s precious shell made into combs, bowls and decorative articles. Hence, a place where turtle “cara” shells are found in abundance, as in Caramoan. Another version is that this place is where “namo”, wild plants that grow on vines with edible roots, are plentiful; Caramoran has this plant growing in abundance. These two towns are both far from their provincial capital and as such the inhabitants are closely knit in many aspects.\n\nThe municipal government ceased to exist when Caramoran was fused to the Municipality of Pandan in 1906, only to be resurrected following the incessant demand of the people under the leadership of then Don Camilo Rubio.\n\nThe late ex-Congressman Francisco Perfecto fathered the bill in congress recreating Caramoran as an independent municipality. On August 29, 1948, then President Elpidio Quirino signed Republic Act No. 159 re-creating the municipality of Caramoran. Cong. Perfecto filed a bill “Outlawing Storm” and this fact made Catanduanes known to the world because the beautiful island lies in the typhoon belt, perhaps without destructive storms in this province, specially this municipality of Caramoran must have prospered and developed fast.\n\nIn the , the population of Caramoran was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2093168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093168", "title": "Gigmoto", "text": "Gigmoto\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nGigmoto is politically subdivided into 9 barangays.\n\nThe name Gigmoto originated from the Bicol word \"himbot\" that means “just in time”. This is supposedly related to the romantic venture of a young man from Baras seeking to court a maiden from the town of Viga. Competing with several other suitors, the man traveled northbound to win the love of the maiden. He was overtaken by the night, so he slept in that place. In the morning he proceeded to Viga, arriving there just before nightfall. After staying for a period of time in Viga, the man from Baras won the heart of the woman. When the lovers were bound for Baras, they stayed overnight at Gigmoto – “just in time” for their first romantic night of being together.\n\nAs years went by Himbotan was changed to Higmoto. Years thereafter, believing that with the “H” Higmoto seemed to be a Japanese word, the “H” was changed to “G” – thus the name Gigmoto.\n\nThe first families to settle there were the Tanaels, followed by the Dayawons, both from Baras. The Tolledos, the Tatings and the Tatads came next. Other families from Baras, Bato and from the town of Virac had come and ultimately made Gigmoto the biggest barrio of the Municipality of Baras.\n\nThe town was created from the barrios of Sicmil and Sioron from Viga and the barrios of San Vicente, Gigmoto, Biong and Dororian from Baras.\n\nOn June 15, 1951, the government officials for the newly created town were appointed by the then Congressman Severiano de Leon who authored the bill creating the municipality with the approval of President Elpidio Quirino. Mr. Juan Q. Sarmiento who happened to be the first public school teacher became the first mayor with Andres Dayawon as Vice Mayor. Messrs. Maximo Tapalla, Apolinar Tatad, Marcelino Dayawon and Apolinar Joson were then appointed municipal councilors. Mr. Candido Tuboro became the first municipal treasurer. Fr. Andres Tablizo was the parish priest and Mr. Serafin Rodulfo was the first principal.\n\nIn the , the population of Gigmoto was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2093170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093170", "title": "Pandan, Catanduanes", "text": "Pandan, Catanduanes\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nPandan is politically subdivided into 26 barangays.\n\n\nFormerly the town site was located some two kilometers away south of the present site. Then the people were disturbed by constant depredation of bandits coming from other places.\n\nThe present site has been chosen because it was near the sea and the fishermen found it very convenient for their trade, however, being near the sea, it was vulnerable to Moros who always come to get their belongings or even capture some people.\n\nAs a defense against such moro raids, the people planted pandan shrubs close to each other to form a formidable defense against invaders. When the Spaniards came they found the plants around the poblacion in great abundance. When asked what the name of the shrubs was, the people told them that they were pandan shrubs. Thus, the Spaniards called the place Pandan.\n\nThe municipality lies on the northern tip of the province, 96 kilometers from the capital town of Virac. Bounded on the south by the municipality of Caramoran, on the west by the Maqueda Channel, on the east by the municipality of Bagamanoc and on the north by the Pacific Ocean. It has a total land area of 11,990 hectares. This is a town of 17,096 friendly and hospitable people, to which 99% are Roman Catholic.\n\nOf the 26 barangays that comprise the municipality, four of which actually form the town proper, which are Libod, the biggest barangay in terms of population, Napo, Pandan del Sur and Pandan del Norte. The rest are found usually near the seashore. The rest being an inland barangays.\n\nThe municipality does not only boast of the natural beauties, it has which are the Parway, Mangbang, Parola beaches, the Hinik-Hinik falls (Hinik-hinik is a local term for rain shower) and Minaipit falls, but especially of its being a hometown of Senators, Congressman, Governor, Cardinal and Ambassador.\n\nThe people of Pandan are generally peace-loving, God-fearing and are happy people. Everyone in the community is a brother, a sister and a friend where the products of which could be shared even food itself without thought of having it repaid or reciprocated. Visitors are offered the comforts that the family could afford even it means that the owner should lay on the floor just to make the visitor eased at home by using the “papag”. And that is not enough, before going home; products of their yard would be wrapped for you to bring in your family plus a bunch of cockling chickens.\n\nDuring celebrations, immediate neighbors are invited bringing among the whole members of the family and this seemed to be incomplete without tuba drinking and little dancing. Pantomina is a long cherished dance that never changes with time despite of the current dance and music. Pandananons has a series of collected pantomina songs which are now famous composed locally, of course it is not only the above songs, Pandananons used to compose, for evidence of which that gained popularity was a song composed by Alfredo dela Rosa, former Municipal Secretary of the Sangguniang Bayan of Pandan, entitled “Islang Catandungan”. This song won first place in the regional contest in Sorsogon sometime on the late 1960s.\n\nThe Pandan Church was built in 1874. the roof was completely razed by fire in a great conflagration of the town in 1920. This was repaired within five years during the incumbency of Father Jose Magno. The roof was again blown completely in 1940 by the strongest typhoon that has ever passed Catanduanes. It took many years to repair it; again, this was destroyed by typhoon Jean in 1947. Complete repair under the management of Father Orias was done near the end of 1953.\n\nThe only old ruin to be found in Pandan is the present Roman Catholic Cemetery. It was constructed during the Spanish era. Formerly, this cemetery was surrounded with concrete walls, which crumbled due to work of time and element. At present, very little portion of the walls remain.\n\nThe outstanding events that took place in Pandan during the Spanish regime may be divided into five different aspects, namely; social, political, religious, educational, health and sanitation.\n\nThe system of governing the town was carried and through the so-called capitan or gobernadorcillo, which at present is called a municipal mayor. He was assisted in the administration of the town by the coadelieros, cabeza de barangay and aguacil who are now called policemen, councilor and barrio lieutenants or barrio captains now barangay captains respectively.\n\nDuring those days land taxes were unknown. Once a person had paid his personal tax which amounted to P1.50, he was exempted from paying taxes of any kind.\n\nRape, robbery and killing were the greatest crimes during those days, and the penalty of offenders was death by hanging. Penalties for minor offenses like failure to clean one’s surroundings consisted only of confining the guilty in the tribunal, now called the municipal building. Those found guilty were made to stand in a “pandog” all day long and given several beatings.\n\nOne thing unique about the Spanish Administration was the equality with which penalties were administered, because no matter what key positions in town one was holding, once he was guilty of any crime he was punished relentlessly.\n\nOn e commendable trend of the time was the people’s strict adherence to their religious duties and practices. During Sundays at 7:00 o’clock in the evening a curfew bell in the Tribunal would be sounded, after which nobody was expected to be seen lingering around the town, otherwise, if anybody was caught by the cuadelieros (policemen), he was given a hundred lashes. During curfew hours everybody was expected to be in their respective houses singing such holy songs as the so-called “tarahadi”\n\nThere were very few teachers in the town, because teachers were still to be imported from the mainland. There was no such thing as principal, district supervisor, division superintendent because the administration of the school was solely the teacher’s responsibility. During examination time the governor who was the over-all head of the province would just come over and gave oral examination to the pupils.\n\nSevere and inhuman corporal punishment was the order of the day and woe to those who were rather slow in learning their daily lessons. Teaching consisted mostly of religious, a little of handwork and Spanish.\n\nOne accomplishment achieved along this line was the rigid enforcement of cleanliness of the immediate vicinity of the house. When one is found delinquent of his duty he is hog-tied and given a hundred lashes.\n\nWhenever the governor of the province visited the town and discovered that some streets were not properly cared for, it was the capitan who suffered the penalty of being fined.\n\nThe first American came to this town in the year 1900 under Captain Mane. The people did not offer resistance to the occupation of the Americans, so there was no fighting between the natives and the Americans. The natives were at first afraid of the American soldiers. They thought that the Americans might abuse them. When the natives observed the Americans began their policy of attraction by giving their foods to the natives. They offered cakes and candies to the children.\n\nThe Americans with the help of the prominent people organized the government. The municipal mayor or “capitan” as was called during those days was voted by the male inhabitants who were 21 years old or above. A male may be qualified to vote if he possessed any of the following (1) he must be 21 years old or above; (2) he could read and write; (3) and if he owned a piece of land. The first capitan who was elected was Capitan Eduardo Vera.\n\nThe Americans organized public schools. They selected big houses for schools buildings. The first teachers were Americans. The most popular among them was Catler. The Americans gave pencils, paper and slates to the pupils in order to encourage the people to get to school. Even the adults were encouraged to go to school. The subjects taught were English, Language, Arithmetic, Reading and Writing. The Americans taught the natives healthful and sanitary living. They taught the people to clean their homes and surroundings and to make toilets. They established a provisional hospital wherein the soldiers and even natives were treated free by the American doctors.\n\nThe Americans stayed in the place for about a year. When they left the same system of government was instituted. The mayor or capitan was elected by the qualified voters.\n\nThe town was improved when Pedro Vera became the Representative of this province in 1928. Schools, roads and bridges were constructed. The Post Office, the Light House, and the present schools in this town today are some of the improvements done through the effort of Vera. The dike that prevents the destruction of the town was constructed through the effort of Rep. Pedro Vera.\n\nIn 1950 there was drought and the people suffered because there was no harvest of rice. In 1935 there was another typhoon but it was not very strong. the second World War broke out in December 1941.\n\nPandan is the home town of Former Senator Jose O. Vera, Rep. Pedro Vera, Former Governor Jorge V. Almojuela, Cardinal Jose T. Sanchez, Former Ambassador and Immigration Commissioner Leandro I. Verceles (the first Bicolano career diplomat), Former Congressman and Governor Leandro B. Verceles, Jr., Former Vice Governor Teofisto I. Verceles and Former Governor Araceli B. Wong. The present mayor is Raul Eubra Tabirara\n\nIn the , the population of Pandan, Catanduanes, was people, with a density of .\n\nMunicipality of Pandan had a quite high literacy rate and it is improving through the years. Each barangays had their own elementary schools.\n\nElementary schools:\nSecondary schools:\n\nTertiary school:\n\n"}
{"id": "2093173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093173", "title": "Panganiban, Catanduanes", "text": "Panganiban, Catanduanes\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is formerly known as Payo.\n\nAlthough the original name was Payo, this town has changed name from Panganiban to Payo and back again. During the last term of the late assemblyman Francisco Perfecto, Panganiban became Payo again on April 20, 1957 under Republic Act No. 1654. Congressman Jose M. Alberto (through Republic Act 2122 enacted without executive approval April 15, 1959) changed the name to Panganiban again by which it is officially known at present.\n\nLegend has it that a boatload of seafarers from some village in the south-eastern mainland of Luzon was shipwrecked onto the shore of what is now Panganiban. The village headman, or “Payo” as he was called by the villagers, was among the shipwrecked and no one was able to return to the home village. Migrating villagers, years later, were able to ascertain the fate of their lost kinsmen when they came upon the remains of the wrecked sailboat. They settled in the place and called it “Payo” in memory of their ill-fated headman.\n\nIt is situated on the northern part of Catanduanes, with its eastern part facing the Pacific Ocean. It is bounded on the north by the municipality of Bagamanoc, on the south by the municipality of Viga, and on the west by the municipality of Caramoran which is covered by a dense forest.\n\nThe town proper has a distance of from Virac, the capital town and commercial center of the province. Its distance from the adjacent towns of Viga and Bagamanoc are 5 and 4 kilometers, respectively.\n\nBagamanoc was created from barrios of Quigaray, Hinipagan, Sukhan in the island of Panay; Lati, in the island of Lati; Bacac, Hinipaan, Bugao, Minaili and Bagamanoc of the municipality of Panganiban by virtue of Republic Act No. 491 which was approved on June 12, 1950.\n\nThe municipal councils of Bagamanoc and Panganiban agreed on the boundary of the two towns on June 12, 1952. The agreement was approved by the provincial council of Catanduanes on July 12, 1952. The Congress formalized the agreement by passing Republic Act No. 1038 which was approved on June 12, 1954. The boundary was stated thus:\n\nPanganiban is politically subdivided into 23 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Panganiban was people, with a density of .\n\nOn January 1, 1921, Gov. Gen. Francis B. Harrison signed into law Executive Order No. 55 officially segregating the municipality from Viga; thenceforth she was called Panganiban, in honor of Jose Blanca Panganiban who stood as sponsor during the inauguration. She is also known as Payo, after a native herb, \"hamapayo\" and due to its brevity, the name Payo is more commonly used.\n\nAbout 9,500 inhabitants populate her 7,772 km area of vast plains and valleys painted gold with rice, of hills verdant with abaca and coconuts, and of rugged coastlines thick with mangroves. Deep within her bowels lie the richest coal deposits in the island, untapped as yet.\n\nThe pioneers were navigators and traders on commercial expeditions, descendants of the first wave of settlers from Borneo, Malay and China. In the early 13th century, another wave of seafarers, coming from southern Luzon mainland, got lost in storm, ventured inward into the mouth of Payo river and there found an Eden—and so they stayed and called this home.\n\nThe Spanish colonizers who came around 1573 indelibly left their thumbprint in Christianity to the character of Payonhon such that save for a few Christian sect. Catholicism remains the predominant religion. The church of St. James the Greater whose massive edifice built in the 18th century still stands, lording it over the other institutions serves as a testament to the people's ingenuity and perseverance; they who fashioned the building out of limestone and local materials using their own hands—a labor that took them 15–25 years to finish. Only a people of remarkably deep and unwavering faith could do such a feat. And this faith did not fail them through a series of crisis during the Japanese occupation. Miraculously, while the rest of the country reeled under atrocities committed by the Japanese, the Payonhons were relatively treated with civility by their captors until the aliens were driven out of town and annihilated by the guerrillas in Banquerohan in ruthless ambush on April 19, 1945.\n\nSince its separation from Viga in 1921, Panganiban occupied one half of the Northern chunk of the province with the other half left to Viga in 1952, when its biggest barrio of Bagamanoc became a separate municipality of Panganiban shrunk into other slice of territory as it is now.\n\nWhen the Certeza Survey came up in the 1970s, its territory was trampled upon with impunity as some of the sitios were transferred to the jurisdiction of its mother or daughter municipalities. The remaining 6,000 hectares of land area of Panganiban, 400 hectares are rice lands; 300 hectares swamp and the rest are forest of varying denudations.\n\nIts church, built in 1720-25, has never been substantially rebuilt. It succumbed to the earthquake of January 11, 1928 its east wall was ripped beyond repair and ugly cracks were opened in several places. The end and side walls were torn apart at the north-east corner leaving an eight-inch opening from top to bottom. A stronger earthquake may send the wall a crumbling and the church goers including the priest scamper in panic out of the church at the slightest tremor.\n\nTenacious and resilient as the typical Catandunganon, the town folks depend much their livelihood on fishing and agriculture.\n\nThe intermittent devastation of their money crops-abaca and copra and the inadequate facilities of irrigation system had been the main causes of the economic depression of the residents. The livelihood projects being undertaken by the government on the case-to-case basis are the only means, which the people pin their hope to bail out their miseries.\n\nThe town population of about 8,000 as of 1975 eventually decreased as a result of migration to the mainland Bicol and other part of the country and abroad, as well as, to seek for economic opportunities.\n\nThe literacy of the people is quite high due to presence of a National Vocational College in town since 1948.\n\nPayo had been a barrio of Viga up to January 1, 1921, when it became Panganiban (named after Jose Blanca Panganiban who was its sponsor during the inaugural ceremony) and ceased to be part of Viga per executive order. Pedro Urgel was appointed Presidente. In the ensuing election of 1922 the electorate repudiated the administration that gave Panganiban its “independence” and voted into office a political maverick who implanted the nucleus of a political opposition that was to hold sway throughout the north-eastern part, if not the whole of Catanduanes. Ignacio Aquino was the name of the first elected local executive.\n\nMost outstanding accomplishment by local executives is the construction of the diversion canal that by-passed the local cemetery and saved it from the scouring floodwaters of the Payo River.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093176", "title": "San Andres, Catanduanes", "text": "San Andres, Catanduanes\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is formerly known as Calolbon.\n\nThe town's first leader on record was Juan Gazang who served for eight years between 1798 and 1806, with the exception of three other capitans- Cristobal (1806), Felix Santelices (1835–1842) and Teodoro Santelices (1843–1847) -the rest served two terms. The last captain was Alipio Vargas (1899–1900).\n\nThe American Era started with a controversial municipal president, Deogracias Belmonte (1901–1903). He was branded as pro-American by the insurrectos headed by Comandante Florencio Eras. Belmonte was almost beheaded on December 8, 1899 in the cemetery of Pandan, Catandauens. However, the father of then Senator Jose O. Vera saved him from execution.\n\nThe term \"Municipal President\" for town heads was last used by Roberto Iñigo (1931–1935).\n\nDuring the Commonwealth of the Philippines, the town head of Calolbon was Emiliano Surban (1935–1937) who was the first to assume the title of \"Municipal Mayor\".\n\nFelizardo Santelices was appointed mayor of Calolbon (in 1944-1946) by President [Jose P. Laurel].\n\nDuring the Japanese Invasion, Mayor Santelices experienced what could well be called the most brutal eventuality ever noted for a public servant of the province. It all began in the afternoon of October 5, 1944, when a Japanese tora-tora plane was forced to land on a rice field near the town center. Santelices conducted an inquiry, and although his first urge was to kill the pilot, he sent him instead to the Japanese headquarters in Virac, the capital of Catanduanes, to avoid potential disaster. He knew that Philippine troops and recognized guerrillas would have killed the pilot themselves, and the Japanese reprisal for that act would have been a merciless burning of the poblacion and a massacre of innocent civilians.\n\nThe Japanese thanked Santelices for returning the pilot, but the Philippine Commonwealth troops and the recognized guerrillas, accusing him of being pro-Japanese, had the mayor arrested and brought to trial. He was convicted and sentenced to die and be buried with another Japanese pilot who made a forced landing in the province of Camarines Sur. The condemned Japanese aviator was decapitated first, and Santelices was then placed on the execution block. Seconds before the sword was lowered, the wife of the slayer cried out: \"Save him...save him... save him! he is an innocent man!\" So, Santelices was freed. The woman's name was Felicidad Garcia. Few years after the war, she visited him in Calolbon. Mr. Santelices and Mrs. Garcia didn't knew each other during the war years. But during those times of trials, Mayor Santelices always prayed the Holy Rosary. Up until his death, he was a devotee of Our Lady of Penafrancia.\n\nMajor Salvador Rodolfo organized the Catanduanes Liberation Forces. It was the back bone of the resistance movement in Catanduanes. It performed numerous ambuscades against the Japanese Imperial Army and conducted intelligence gathering, which was necessary in paving the way for the eventual liberation of the province by the combined American and Filipino troops. During his exploits as a guerilla leader, Rodolfo was rumored several times to have been killed in battle but time and again he keeps on coming back to destroy every vestige of enemy control in the province of Catanduanes, hence he was called “Phantom” or the Man who never dies.\n\nOn February 8, 1945, when Rodolfo was about to declare the independence of the province after he and his men killed every Japanese Imperial Army and burned every Japanese garrison in Catanduanes, one of his men approached him and said that there were Japanese reinforcements on board 2 vessels approaching the island. He then talked to his men, most of whom were wounded and exhausted, he said:\n\nJapanese reinforcements are coming. I have two options for you, we can go to the hills and save ourselves and wait there until the Americans arrive, but I assure you that all civilians left behind will be massacred by the incoming Japanese, or we can repeat what happened in the Battle of Thermopylae and stand our ground. Most of us will die, but we will live forever in the pages of history as the men who fought for the liberation of Catanduanes\"\n\nWith that, everybody decided to stand their ground and fight the incoming Japanese. They went to their posts to wait for the enemy's arrival but then, as if by providence, American planes arrived and bombed the Japanese vessels. Rodolfo declared independence of the entire province on February 8, 1945[3].\n\nAfter Philippine independence in 1946 and Catanduanes became an independent province, the first elected municipal mayor of Calolbon was Jose B. Surban (1947–1948). He was followed by Jose de la Providencia (1948–1951) Francisco Imperial (1952–1955) and Aristeo Arcilla (1956–1963). During the term of Augusto T. Antonio (1964–1979), Calolbon was wired for electricity, and the town's infrastructure was greatly improved. Augusto T. Antonio was succeeded by Antonio Romano, MD (1980–1986) and then by Pedro Surban (1986–1987) as \"Officer in Charge\" of the town. Surban was succeeded by Lydia T. Romano (1987–1995), the first woman ever elected as mayor of Calolbon. Then Joseph Cua succeeded her. After Cua, Dr. Aly Romano, the son of ex-mayors Antonio and Lydia Romano was elected mayor. Then Leo Mendoza succeeded him in 2007. In the 2010 Elections, Dr. Antonio Romano won the mayoral post again after defeating Mendoza with a margin of 1,000 plus votes. Then Peter C. Cua succeeded Romano in 2013.\n\nIn 1964, a bill was presented to the Philippine Congress to rename the town San Andres in honor of its patron, Saint Andrew the Apostle. This bill was approved as Republic Act No. 3948 on June 18 that same year. Many Calolbonganons loved the old name, a name used since time immemorial and unique to the entire archipelago. They were upset that there had never been a referendum vote. \"The change of Calolbon to San Andres without consulting the townspeople,\" said one outspoken native, \"is a rape of democracy.\" But for those who were deeply religious and very much devoted to St. Andrew, the change from Calolbon to San Andres was no different from changing a pagan name to a Christian one.\n\nSan Andres is subdivided into 38 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of San Andres, Catanduanes, was people, with a density of .\n\nIn 1989, according to the Catholic Directory of the Philippines published by the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines (CBCP), the town of San Andres had a total population of 18,369, the majority of which were Roman Catholic. Others belonged to diverse religious denominations that include Jehovah's Witnesses, the Iglesia ni Cristo, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as well as born-again and Fundamentalist Protestant groups.\n\nThe entire town of Calolbon was originally under the jurisdiction of Saint Andrew the Apostle Parish. In the early 1950s, however, Saint Isidore Parish was established in the large neighborhood of Manambrag, and now includes all of the farming community of San Andres plus some barrios from outlying areas of the town. Saint Andrew the Apostle Church currently hosts has a number of Pious Associations, many of which are dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary.\n\nRev. Fr. Cornelio de Jesús (1798–1892) was the first recorded parish priest. He ministered to the town's spiritual needs for 29 years. Fr. De Jesús was responsible for founding the parish church, which was partially constructed of limestone, and he chose Saint Andrew as its titular patron since most people in Calolbon were fishermen.\n\nThe priests who saw the end of the Spanish Rule and the advent of the American Era was Rev. Fr. Pío Imperial (1893–1902). During the next two decades, two dynamic clerics guided and strengthened the Catholic faithful of this town. They were Rev. Fr. Roberto Floranza (1910–1920) and Rev. Fr. Dominiciano Camu (1920–1930). Fr. Floranza concretely improved the church building, as it was badly damaged by a typhoon a month before he assumed his office as cura of the town. Floranza was a talented musician who organized a liturgical choir that was often invited to perform at social gatherings such as biladas and dotocas and at other public events.\n\nManolo A. de los Santos, the Bishop of Virac, said that the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines confirmed on June 13, 2008, the existence of a miraculous \"growing\" century-old stone (now 3 inches in height) in Paloway, San Andres, Catanduanes, Bicol Region. The stone bears the image of the Blessed Virgin Mary as Our Lady of Sorrows and is said to heal illnesses: “What is unexplainable is not that the stone grew in size over the years, but the fact that the image of the Virgin was never distorted as it grew.\" Called “Batong Paloway (Stone of Paloway),\" it enshrined above the altar of the Our Lady of Sorrows Chapel, a “de facto shrine\" in Barangay Paloway.\n\nThe image on the stone is actually \"Our Lady of the Finger\" (\"Nuestra Señora del Dedo\"), as it shows Mary pointing her right index finger to the left from underneath her cloak. Originally a Spanish depiction, the title was little known in the Philippines at the time of the stone's discovery, leading the people to associate the Paloway icon with the more familiar Our Lady of Sorrows.\n\nThe Church has no official statement on the devotion to the icon, but it does not hinder it. Every Friday, a Mass is being celebrated in Paloway Chapel for the benefit of devotees. On the evening of Maundy Thursday, youth from neighboring parishes go on pilgrimage to visit the icon. Saint Andrew's Parish and the Diocesan Commission on Youth Apostolate are planning to organize such pilgrimages to make it more meaningful and fruitful for the young people.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093178", "title": "San Miguel, Catanduanes", "text": "San Miguel, Catanduanes\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is located at the mid-south part of the province of Catanduanes, the only inland municipality of the island. It is bounded on the north by the municipality of Caramoran, on the east by the municipality of Baras and Gigmoto, on the west by the municipality of Virac and on the south by the municipality of Bato.\n\nSan Miguel, which was formerly part of the Municipality of Bato, was first inhabited by the early mountaineers and the part of the Malayan race that were pushed to the open valley with the coming of the Spanish Colonizers.\n\nThere are myths and fables about how the town got its name. According to a pioneer, San Miguel was once a sitio originally known as \"Aguas\" named after fish species bigger than the \"Balanak\". In the 1930s during the celebration of the feast in honor of Santa Cruz, the former patron saint, Aguas was changed to San Miguel in grateful recognition and commendation to the invaluable services of Don Miguel Triumfante and Juez de Cnado of Bato who were present then during the celebration.\n\nThere was also a legend handed down to the present generation that once upon a time the chapel caretaker in the person of Marcelo Tapanan, in one early morning heard a long and loud ringing of bells. He hurried to the chapel and was surprised to see the image of Saint Michael the Archangel in the altar. The story passed on every ear of the residents and finally made a common move of changing the name of the place from Aguas to San Miguel.\n\nSan Miguel became a separate municipality through then President Elpidio Quirino's Executive Order No. 803 dated August 23, 1952, comprising twelve barangays at that time. The first town mayor was Torribio Taopa who was chosen through a plebiscite in 1952 until the first local elections in 1953 where he won.\n\nThe present mayor is Edna Bernal who is on her second-term after winning over former Mayor and former SP Francisco Camano Jr.\n\nSan Miguel is politically subdivided into 24 barangays.\n\n\n\n\nIn the , the population of San Miguel, Catanduanes, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2093180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093180", "title": "Viga, Catanduanes", "text": "Viga, Catanduanes\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nViga is one of the eleven towns in the province of Catanduanes, located in the north-eastern portion of the island. It occupies approximately 8.96% of the total land area of the island and 0.0406% of the entire country. It is nestled in one of the widest inland plains of the island, between three neighboring towns and the Philippine Sea. To the south is the town of Gigmoto, to the west is the town of Caramoran. It is about north from the capital town of Virac.\n\nThe site of the original settlement of Viga was at Caviga-e now called Viga. It was believed that a group of tribesmen led by \"Abines\" from the mainland were the first settlers. Due to frequent Moro raids, they fled inland and settled in a place where the primitive inhabitants were akin to the province’s pygmies. They called this place \"Oco\" (now barangay San José), meaning short people or dwarf. When the Moro threat diminished, the settlers move to the lowlands where the soil was more fertile. They selected the area where herbaceous giant gabi-like plants which they called \"Marviga\" grew abundantly. The settlers were of mixed stock as result of the inter-marriages between the natives and the migrating tribesmen.\n\nIn the later part of 16th century, a group of Spaniards believed to be a group of Juan de Salcedo’s expedition reached the place and subdued the natives. It then became a Spanish settlement. An Augustinian friar named Francisco Putiocan became the first Catholic Priest and recognized leader. The Spaniards called the settlement \"Viga\", shortened from \"Marviga\". This name was subsequently adopted as the official name of the municipality.\n\nDuring the Spanish colonization, the inhabitants were converted to the Catholic faith. As time went on they felt however, the strain of Spanish civil rule cruelties, when the Philippine Revolution broke out, many able-bodied natives joined the nationalistic movement and fought the colonizer.\n\nWhen the Americans came, Viga was virtually liberated from the Spanish rule, civil government was established. When the Second World War broke out, Viga become the center of guerilla movement in the province. A pitched and running battle between the guerillas and escaping Japanese forces were simultaneously fought at Bangguerohan and Cabatangan where the latter was defeated.\n\nIn 1951, the barrios of Sicmil and Sioron were transferred to then newly created town of Gigmoto.\n\nIn the , the population of Viga, Catanduanes, was people, with a density of .\n\nViga is politically subdivided into 31 barangays.\n\n\nViga is an agricultural municipality, considered as the rice granary of the province. The two types of agricultural products raised are food and export crops. The food crops raised are palay, corn, banana and other root crops. The export crops are mainly Abaca and coconut. The area planted with these crops and the production derived there from is the principal source of livelihood by the inhabitants.\n\nViga is mostly rugged and mountainous terrain. Its slope characteristics are 29% gently sloping to undulating, 3% classified rolling to hilly, 18% very hills and mountains, 6% level to very gently sloping, 13% steep hills and mountainous, and 13% plains. The prominent mountain forms with important significance include the ranges are Summit and Magsumoso. The largest coastal plain is the contiguous wetlands over which lays the widest area of rice paddies and a vast swamp full of nipa and mangroves.\nViga is an agricultural municipality, considered as the rice granary of the province. The two types of agricultural products raised are the food and export crops. The food crops being raised are palay, corn, banana and other root crops. The export crops are mainly Abaca and coconut. The area planted with these crops and the production derived there from is the principal source of livelihood by the inhabitants.\n\nViga is a biodiversity hotspot. Its lush rainforest is home to Philippine brown deer (Rusa marianna), flying foxes, and other endemic bat species, warty pigs, civets, cobras, giant pythons, monitor lizards, sailfin lizards and other endemic animals. Exotic bird species such as Philippine hornbill, rail, parrot, bittern, egret, pheasant, coot, lapwing, plover, Philippine duck, quail, owl, oriole, kingfisher, swiftlets and many more are also found. In fact, a record of \"Philippines Birding Trip Reports\" has found out many bird species in several portions such as the watershed and timberland forests reserve where scattered deer populations are also usually reported.\nUnfortunately, one bird subspecies, the Catanduanes Bleeding-heart (Gallicolumba luzonica rubiventris) had experienced over-exploitation in the late 20th century. Although most forests are still intact, this species has suffered over-hunting. It is very rare and believed to be near extinction or already extinct as its last reported specimen was collected in 1971.\n\nThe Southern giant slender-tailed cloud rat (budkon/bugkon) which is found only in Catanduanes and the southern half of Luzon Island, is still widely reported. It is critically endangered as humans hunt them for food and for some extent, as pets. In mainland Luzon, sightings of this wonderful creature is already rare while in Marinduque, it is generally considered extinct.\n\nThe Catanduanes narrow-mouthed frog (Kaloula kokacii), an arboreal amphibian which is found only in Catanduanes and some parts of Bicol, enjoys its diversity but being carefully monitored. Clearing of some forests may pose a threat to amphibian species. An amphibian Hylarana similis is found only in Catanduanes and Luzon islands. \nOne of the very recent species found in Catanduanes and portions of Bicol region is the new loam-swimming skink, a legless reptile with its assigned scientific name Brachymelesmakusog. The rich dipterocarp forest also harbor numerous tropical plant species including the threatened species of pitcher plants and rafflesia as well as endemic banana varieties. Many highly valuable hardwood trees such as yakal, apitong, palosapis, and molave are still found in the forests though local reports indicate that these species are already threatened. Mangrove forests exist in several coastal areas but the largest locations are in Banquerohan (Viga-Panganiban).\n\nThe marine environment of Viga is also ecologically rich as its terrestrial zones. Coastal reefs harbor many endangered and threatened types of mollusks such as giant Triton, cowries, abalone, cone snails, conches, octopuses, squids, and nautiluses. Marine mammals are also reported to frequent on its coasts such as species of dolphins and whales which appear in March–June. Many edible marine algae such as caulerpa, valonia, and turbellaria also grow abundantly on its rough coasts. Viga is nestled in the very beginning of the Kuroshio Current; a sea current that runs through Eastern Philippines, Taiwan and Japan. This current performs an array of physical and biological functions in countless marine life like migration and breeding. This explains why migratory fish tracks are usually encountered in its waters. Tuna migration can be seen on its peak in the months of April and May. Dugongs were once known to swim on coasts but this event is already becoming extremely rare.\n\nViga coast is one of the best spots for flying fish population; a flying fish can attain its fullest size which may weigh 300 grams (11 oz). Rabbitfish, a kind of reef fish is one of the most heavily exploited marine tropical fish in the locality. Its fry that comes out in shallow coasts during the breeding season (March–May) are fished in large volumes. Approximately 10 million rabbitfish fries are caught annually. That natural event supplies food for many people but its ecological impact can be devastating. Nature advocates started to strengthen their campaign for an eco-dialogue for this matter. Sea cucumbers are also known to be abundant in many islets of the eastern coasts facing the Pacific Ocean.\n\nList of public elementary schools in Viga\nThe table below contains the list of all the public senior high schools found in Catanduanes published by the Department of Education or DepEd. Included on the list are the municipalities, school ID, school names, and program offerings.\n\nList of public/national high schools in Viga\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093184", "title": "Gravitron", "text": "Gravitron\n\nThe Gravitron (also known as the Starship, Starship 2000, Starship 3000, Starship 4000, Starship Area 51, Starship Gravitron, Starship Exodus, Alien Abduction, Alien Invasion, Twister, Devil's Hole, Area 51, Flight To Mars, and Enterprise) is an amusement ride, most commonly found as a portable ride at fairs and carnivals. The Gravitron first appeared at Morey's Piers in 1983 and quickly became a fixture at amusement parks in many countries. It is a modification of an earlier ride called the Rotor. The ride was originally designed and manufactured by Wisdom Industries, though several examples of the Gravitron were produced under license by ARM in the UK and Ferrari in Australia.\n\nThe ride is completely enclosed, with 48 padded panels lining the inside wall. Riders lean against these panels, which are angled back. As the ride rotates, centrifugal force is exerted against the pads by the rider, removing the rider from the floor, due to the slant. The ride can reach a maximum speed of 24 rpm in less than 20 seconds, due to the 33 kW 3-phase motor. At this speed, the riders are experiencing centrifugal force equivalent to three times the force of gravity. There is usually a light-up sign on it which usually says \"THRILLER\" but sometimes this will say the name of the show. On some models, this is not on the ride.\n\nThe ride operator is located in the center of the ride. Part of the operator's duty is to control lighting and music in addition to the ride itself. Some variants include closed-circuit television cameras, allowing waiting riders and passersby to observe the ride in action.\n\nThere are a few versions of this ride that do not have a ceiling (i.e. the top canvas is not installed).\n\nThe entire ride racks on a single trailer for transport. The ride can be assembled in less than six hours, and packed up in three.\n\nOn August 20, 1991, a Gravitron spun itself apart at the Missouri State Fair, injuring seven children. The accident led to a multi-party lawsuit against Murphy Enterprises, the operator of the ride, and Wisdom Manufacturing, resulting in modifications to the rides and stricter safety standards.\n\nIn April 2004, an accident occurred at the Dade County Youth Fair in Miami, Florida, when a panel came off and three riders were ejected. One of these ejected riders was a 16-year-old girl who was critically injured. Seven people were injured, including two people outside the ride that were hit by debris. As a result, DCYF strengthened their safety guidelines and removed the ride from the park.\n\nOn September 8, 2007, a teenage boy was injured while riding a Gravitron at the Spokane County Interstate Fair in Washington State. The boy hit his head on a metal part of the ride and needed two staples in his scalp to close the wound. Witnesses reported that the boy ignored safety warnings and climbed the walls of the ride while it was in motion. State investigators determined that the ride was safe and that the accident was the result of the victim's behavior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093190", "title": "Vorarlberg School", "text": "Vorarlberg School\n\nThe Vorarlberg School of Architecture (German: \"Vorarlberger Schule\") refers to a group of architects and builders founded in 1657 by Johann Michael Beer in the Austrian town of Au im Bregenzerwald. The school remained active in southern Germany and Switzerland until the end of the 18th century. Its most important members came from the Beer, Moosbrugger and Thumb families. The Vorarlberg School developed a distinct design for churches known as \"Vorarlberger Münsterschema\". The school is notable for its skillful blending of buildings (most of which are abbeys) with the surrounding landscape.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093192", "title": "Beira (Portugal)", "text": "Beira (Portugal)\n\nBeira () was one of the six traditional provinces or \"comarcas\" of Portugal.\n\nThe territorial extension is different from that of the area called \"The Beiras\", which refers to three provinces of 1936, Beira Alta Province, Beira Baixa Province and Beira Litoral Province.\n\nThere is also a wine region, called Beira VR.\n\nThe most important cities within the borders of the traditional province are: Coimbra, Aveiro, Leiria, Viseu, Castelo Branco, Guarda, Figueira da Foz, Covilhã and Pinhel.\n\nThe main river is the Mondego; other rivers include the Vouga, Dão, Côa, Zêzere and Paiva. The largest mountain range is Serra da Estrela – Continental Portugal's highest – other ranges being the Caramulo, Marofa, Gardunha, and Bussaco.\n\nAfter the 15th Century, the new Kingdom of Portugal was divided into six great administrative units, referred to as comarcas. Since the Middle Ages there existed the Beira Province.\n\nIn 1832 this province was divided into\n\nIn 1936 these were divided among three provinces, one of which contained area that was not included in Beira Province:\n\nSometimes collectively referred to as \"the Beiras\". \n\nSome Portuguese geographers referred to the part of Trás-os-Montes that lies south of the Douro River as \"Beira Transmontana\", but that name was never used officially.\n\nIn 1976 the provinces were abolished leaving only the 18 districts.\n\n1976 postal code areas divide the area in\n\nLaw 19/98 which was proposed in 1998 divided the area into\n\nThe current Centro Region of Portugal covers roughly the same area. Oeste Subregion, part of Estremadura, is the major exception. Among its twelve subregions three contain the name \"Beira\":\nThe name also is contained in the name of many small towns and villages in the area, e.g. Moimenta da Beira, Celorico da Beira, Aguiar da Beira, Mondim da Beira etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093196", "title": "List of American television series by setting", "text": "List of American television series by setting\n\nThis is a list of American television series arranged by their setting. The list is organized alphabetically by state.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093197", "title": "List of islands of Korea", "text": "List of islands of Korea\n\nThis article is about the small islands of Korea.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nYeongdo\nJodo\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093206", "title": "Makeyev Rocket Design Bureau", "text": "Makeyev Rocket Design Bureau\n\nThe JSC Makeyev Design Bureau (, also known as Makeyev OKB) is a Russian missile design company located in Miass, Russia. \n\nEstablished in December 1947 as SKB-385, the company is the main designer of submarine-launched ballistic missiles (SLBM) in Russia. The organization was named in honor of Victor Makeyev. Its full official name is State Rocket Center «Academician V.P. Makeev Design Bureau».\n\nIn 1965, SKB-385 was redesignated the Design Bureau of Machine-Building (KBM) under the Ministry of General Machine-Building. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093218", "title": "Jane Badler", "text": "Jane Badler\n\nJane Badler (born December 31, 1953) is an American actress and singer. She is known for her role as Diana, the main antagonist in NBC's science fiction series \"V\" between 1983 and 1985. Badler also appeared in ABC's \"reimagined\" version of \"V\" in 2011, again playing an alien named Diana, who this time is the mother of the series' chief antagonist, Anna. In recent years, Badler has also become an established nightclub singer in Australia, where she now lives, and has released three albums.\n\nBadler was born in Brooklyn, New York. Her family is Jewish. Badler spent her teen years in Great Neck, New York, moving to Manchester, New Hampshire, when she was in high school. Badler won the title Miss New Hampshire and competed at the 1973 Miss America Pageant. Subsequently, she enrolled at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, to study drama.\n\nBadler's first television role was Melinda Cramer Janssen on the American daytime soap opera \"One Life to Live\", which she played from 1977 to 1981 and again in 1983. During her run, she also appeared in a 1979 episode of the primetime series \"Fantasy Island\". Badler also starred on the daytime soap opera \"The Doctors\" as Natalie Bell from 1981 to 1982.\n\nBadler then won her most prominent role, that of the villainous alien Diana in the NBC sci-fi miniseries \"V\" (1983). She reprised the role in the sequel miniseries \"V: The Final Battle\" (1984) and again on \"V: The Series\", which ran for one season from 1984 to 1985.\n\nFollowing \"V\", Badler co-starred with José Ferrer in the made-for-TV supernatural thriller \"Covenant\". The following year she guest-starred as Meredith Braxton throughout the 1986–87 season of the CBS primetime soap opera \"Falcon Crest\". Her other guest appearances during the 1980s included \"Riptide\", \"Hotel\" and \"Murder, She Wrote\". In 1987, she played the role of Tania Winthrop in the short-lived action-adventure series \"The Highwayman\". She then traveled to Australia to play agent Shannon Reed in the 1980s revival of \"\", joining the series midway through its first season (replacing actress Terry Markwell, and her character of Casey Randall); then stayed with the series for its second season before it was cancelled in early 1990. After the series ended, Badler moved to Australia permanently and married businessman Stephen Hains. They have two sons, Sam and Harry. She later appeared on the Australian game show \"Cluedo\" from 1992 to 1993, and had a guest-starring role in \"Snowy River: The McGregor Saga\" in 1995.\n\nIn March 2010, Badler was cast as the villainous Diana Marshall in the Australian soap opera \"Neighbours\". She had a four-month guest contract with the show.\n\nA remake of \"V\" premiered in late 2009, and although this version did not include the character of Diana, the series' executive producer, Scott Peters, suggested that Badler and other stars from the original version may be offered guest roles as new characters. In August 2010, it was announced that Badler would be joining the series as a new character named Diana, the mother of the Visitors' evil leader Anna (Morena Baccarin). Badler appeared in nine of the second season's ten episodes, commencing in January 2011. In the second-season finale, her character was killed by Anna, and ABC decided to not renew the series for a third season.\n\nAlready an able singer when she competed in the Miss New Hampshire and Miss America Pageants, Badler forged a career in cabaret and on the stage in the 2005 Magnormos production of \"archy & mehitabel\", based on Don Marquis's books of poetry. She also appeared in \"Sextet\", \"Big Hair in America\", and with acclaimed Australian director Robert Chuter (who also directed two of her cabaret shows in 2000) she appeared in \"The Singing Forest\", \"The Great Gatsby\" and her one-woman show \"Shakin' the Blues Away\" in which she also sang. Other productions in which she appeared for Magnormos included a concert of the musical \"Rebecca\" and \"OzMade Musicals\".\n\nBadler released her debut album (backed by the Melbourne-based band Sir) on June 1, 2008. Titled \"The Devil Has My Double\", it is an autobiographical album which has been described as \"a compulsive mix of fame, sex and solitude, set to a sweeping soundtrack of cold soul and passionate synthetics\". As part of promotion for the album, she gave an extensive interview about her work to the Boxcutters podcast.\n\nBadler released her second album, \"Tears Again\" (2011). She teamed up with Australian musicians Matt Doll and Byron St John to co-write her third album, \"Opus\", which was released in September 2014.\n\nOn January 7, 2020, Badler announced that her 27-year-old son, actor Harry Hains, died following a battle with “mental illness, chronic sleeping disorders and addiction\". \n\n"}
{"id": "2093221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093221", "title": "Archibald Weigall", "text": "Archibald Weigall\n\nSir William Ernest George Archibald Weigall, 1st Baronet, (8 December 1874 – 3 June 1952) was a British Conservative politician who served as Governor of South Australia from 9 June 1920 until 30 May 1922.\n\nWeigall was the fifth son of a Victorian artist, Henry Weigall (best known for his portrait of Benjamin Disraeli in 1878–1879), and his wife, Lady Rose Sophia Mary Fane, daughter of John Fane, 11th Earl of Westmorland, and wife Priscilla Anne Wellesley-Pole. Through his mother, he was connected to several powerful aristocratic dynasties. One of his older brothers was the cricketer Gerry Weigall (born Gerald John Villiers Weigall). Two other brothers, Louis and Evelyn, were also first-class cricketers.\n\nHe married 16 August 1910 in Metheringham, Lincolnshire, a divorcee, Grace Emily, Baroness von Echardstein, née Grace Emily Blundell Maple (St. George Hanover Square, London, 1876–1950), only surviving child of the deceased furniture magnate Sir John Blundell Maple, 1st Baronet (1845–1903), who had left a fortune of £2,153,000, and wife Emily Harriet Merryweather. She was the former wife of Baron Hermann von Eckardstein (1864–1933) of the German Embassy (whom she had married in 1896). By his wife, Weigall had one daughter; his wife also suffered several miscarriages, including in Australia.\n\nTheir country residence was 'Englemere' at Ascot in Berkshire.\n\nHis daughter Priscilla Crystal Frances Blundell Weigall married on 23 July 1935 Edward Richard Assheton Penn Curzon, CBE (1908–1984), son and heir of Francis Richard Henry Penn Curzon, 5th Earl Howe and wife and cousin Mary Curzon. They had two daughters before they divorced in 1943. She married secondly Robert Coriat, born Harold Isaac Coriat (b. Mogador), son of Abraham Coriat and wife Donna Florence \"Flora\" Cazes (b. London, Middlesex), daughter of Isaac Juave Cazes and wife Selina Simha or Semah Corcos, who were from Morocco, all Sephardi Jews. Their daughter, British socialite Susan Ann Caroline Coriat married Thomas Evelyn \"Tommy\" Weber (originally Thomas Ejnar Arkner), a race car driver who also came from a wealthy family. His father was born in Denmark, of Danish and English descent, son of Poul Arkner, born Poul Christian Anderson (b. Denmark) and wife Pamela Joyce Weber (b. Hertford, Hertfordshire), daughter of Reginald Evelyn Weber and wife Joyce Warner. Weigall's great-grandson is British actor Jake Weber.\n\nEducated at Wellington College, Berkshire, and the Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester, Weigall became an estate manager.\n\nHe joined the 3rd (Militia) Battalion of the Northamptonshire Regiment (the Northampton and Rutland Militia). He was promoted to Captain on 4 April 1902, when the battalion left for South Africa as reinforcement for what turned out to be the last stages of the Second Boer War. Following the end of the war in June 1902, Weigall and the other men of the 3rd battalion left Cape Town on the SS \"Scot\" in early September, and returned to Northampton after arrival in the United Kingdom later the same month. He was later promoted to Major. In World War I, he served with the Northamptonshire Regiment and on the Staff, finishing with the rank of Lieutenant Colonel.\n\nCaptain Archibald G. Weigall unsuccessfully fought the seat of Gainsborough for the Conservatives at the December 1910 general election.\n\nHe stood successfully in a by-election at Horncastle in Lincolnshire on 16 February 1911. The by-election was caused by the sitting Conservative MP Lord Willoughby de Eresby, who had held Horncastle at each election since 1895 succeeding to the peerage on the death of his father, Earl Ancaster. He received 4,955 votes, with a majority of 107 over the Liberal, Frederick Caesar Linfield.\n\nHe remained a MP until he resigned in 1920 to become Governor.\n\nIn 1919, Weigall accepted an appointment as Governor of South Australia. He was appointed in 1920, and soon left for Adelaide, arriving in June. He very quickly became disenchanted with the State Parliament; he became extremely frustrated with the way in which ministers would spend money before being granted supply, or transfer funds voted for one purpose to another. Although never explicitly calling for the abolition of the States, he did describe the results of the division of power in Australia as being \"farcical\" and \"chaotic\", and concluded that \"State Governors and State Legislatures are now anachronisms\".\n\nWeigall sought leave to resign in December 1921, citing \"personal and financial\" reasons. The Colonial Office had wrongly informed him that the State Government would pay the wages of his staff. This was not the case, and this left Weigall a wage of merely £300. His departure prompted Premier Henry Barwell to raise the Governor's salary.\n\nDue to the times, many of the war memorials in country towns around South Australia were opened by him as he travelled around the state, it being only a few years after the end of World War I. These include laying the foundation stone at Burra, unveiling the memorial at Hallett, and opening the new tennis courts at the Memorial Drive Tennis Centre in Adelaide.\n\nWeigall Oval in the suburb of Plympton, and Weigall (formerly Woolshed Flat) along the River Murray were both named in his honour.\n\nHe was appointed High Sheriff of Lincolnshire for 1926–27.\n\nWeigall was created a Baronet, Weigall of Woodhall Spa, in 1938, and was made King of Arms of the Order of St Michael and St George also in 1938. He was appointed High Sheriff of Berkshire for 1944–45.\n\nSince he had no sons, his Baronetcy died with him.\n"}
