{"id": "2080260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080260", "title": "Carrier generation and recombination", "text": "Carrier generation and recombination\n\nIn the solid-state physics of semiconductors, carrier generation and carrier recombination are processes by which mobile charge carriers (electrons and electron holes) are created and eliminated. Carrier generation and recombination processes are fundamental to the operation of many optoelectronic semiconductor devices, such as photodiodes, light-emitting diodes and laser diodes. They are also critical to a full analysis of p-n junction devices such as bipolar junction transistors and p-n junction diodes.\n\nThe electron–hole pair is the fundamental unit of generation and recombination in inorganic semiconductors, corresponding to an electron transitioning between the valence band and the conduction band where generation of electron is a transition from the valence band to the conduction band and recombination leads to a reverse transition.\n\nLike other solids, semiconductor materials have an electronic band structure determined by the crystal properties of the material. Energy distribution among electrons is described by the Fermi level and the temperature of the electrons. At absolute zero temperature, all of the electrons have energy below the Fermi level; but at non-zero temperatures the energy levels are filled following a Boltzmann distribution.\n\nIn undoped semiconductors the Fermi level lies in the middle of a \"forbidden band\" or band gap between two \"allowed bands\" called the \"valence band\" and the \"conduction band\". The valence band, immediately below the forbidden band, is normally very nearly completely occupied. The conduction band, above the Fermi level, is normally nearly completely empty. Because the valence band is so nearly full, its electrons are not mobile, and cannot flow as electric current.\n\nHowever, if an electron in the valence band acquires enough energy to reach the conduction band (as a result of interaction with other electrons, holes, photons, or the vibrating crystal lattice itself), it can flow freely among the nearly empty conduction band energy states. Furthermore, it will also leave behind a hole that can flow as current exactly like a physical charged particle.\n\nCarrier generation describes processes by which electrons gain energy and move from the valence band to the conduction band, producing two mobile carriers; while recombination describes processes by which a conduction band electron loses energy and re-occupies the energy state of an electron hole in the valence band.\n\nThese processes must conserve both quantized energy and crystal momentum, and the vibrating lattice plays a large role in conserving momentum as, in collisions, photons can transfer very little momentum in relation to their energy.\n\nRecombination and generation are always happening in semiconductors, both optically and thermally. As predicted by thermodynamics, a material at thermal equilibrium will have generation and recombination rates that are balanced so that the net charge carrier density remains constant. The resulting probability of occupation of energy states in each energy band is given by Fermi–Dirac statistics.\n\nThe product of the electron and hole densities (formula_1 and formula_2) is a constant formula_3 at equilibrium, maintained by recombination and generation occurring at equal rates. When there is a surplus of carriers (i.e., formula_4), the rate of recombination becomes greater than the rate of generation, driving the system back towards equilibrium. Likewise, when there is a deficit of carriers (i.e., formula_5), the generation rate becomes greater than the recombination rate, again driving the system back towards equilibrium. As the electron moves from one energy band to another, the energy and momentum that it has lost or gained must go to or come from the other particles involved in the process (e.g. photons, electron, or the system of vibrating lattice atoms).\n\nWhen light interacts with a material, it can either be absorbed (generating a pair of free carriers or an exciton) or it can \"stimulate\" a recombination event. The generated photon has similar properties to the one responsible for the event. Absorption is the active process in photodiodes, solar cells and other semiconductor photodetectors, while stimulated emission is the principle of operation in laser diodes.\n\nBesides light excitation, carriers in semiconductors can also be generated by an external electric field, for example in light-emitting diodes and transistors.\n\nWhen light with sufficient energy hits a semiconductor, it can excite electrons across the band gap. This generates additional charge carriers, temporarily lowering the electrical resistance of materials. This higher conductivity in the presence of light is known as photoconductivity. This conversion of light into electricity is widely used in photodiodes.\n\nCarrier recombination can happen through multiple relaxation channels. The main ones are band-to-band recombination, Shockley–Read–Hall (SRH) trap-assisted recombination, Auger recombination and surface recombination. These decay channels can be separated into radiative and non-radiative. The latter occurs when the excess energy is converted into heat by phonon emission after the mean lifetime formula_6, whereas in the former at least part of the energy is released by light emission or luminescence after a radiative lifetime formula_7. The carrier lifetime formula_8is then obtained from the rate of both type of events according to: formula_9From which we can also define the internal quantum efficiency or quantum yield, formula_10 as:formula_11\n\n\"Band-to-band recombination\" is the name for the process of electrons jumping down from the conduction band to the valence band in a radiative manner. During band-to-band recombination, a form of spontaneous emission, the energy absorbed by a material is released in the form of photons. Generally these photons contain the same or less energy than those initially absorbed. This effect is how LEDs create light. Because the photon carries relatively little momentum, radiative recombination is significant only in direct bandgap materials. This process is also known as \"bimolecular recombination\"\".\" \n\nThis type of recombination depends on the density of electrons and holes in the excited state, denoted by formula_12and formula_13respectively. Let us represent the carrier generation rate as formula_14and the radiative recombination as formula_15. Then considering the case in which only band-to-band recombination occurs we can express the change in carrier density as a function of time as:formula_16In thermal equilibrium the radiative recombination formula_17is equal to thermal generation rate formula_18, with the mass action law formula_19, it can be written as:formula_20where formula_21is called the radiative recombination rate, formula_22is the intrinsic carrier density, formula_23and formula_24are the equilibrium carrier densities. In the presence of electron hole pairs, the charge neutrality remains formula_25and the non-equilibrium densities are given by :formula_26\n\nformula_27Then the net recombination rate formula_15becomes ,formula_29Solving this equation by considering charge neutrality, the radiative lifetime formula_30is then given byformula_31\n\n\"Stimulated emission\" is a process in which an incident photon interacts with an excited electron causing it to recombine and emit a photon with the same properties of the incident one, in terms of phase, frequency, polarization, and direction of travel. Stimulated emission together with the principle of population inversion are at the heart of operation of lasers and masers. It has been shown by Einstein at the beginning of the twentieth century that if the excited and the ground level are non degenerate then the absorption rate formula_32and the stimulated emission rate formula_33are the same. Else if level 1 and level 2 are formula_34-fold and formula_35-fold degenerate respectively, the new relation is:formula_36\n\nNon-radiative recombination is a process in phosphors and semiconductors, whereby charge carriers recombine with releasing phonon instead of photons. Non-radiative recombination in optoelectronics and phosphors is an unwanted process, lowering the light generation efficiency and increasing heat losses.\n\nNon-radiative life time is the average time before an electron in the conduction band of a semiconductor recombines with a hole. It is an important parameter in optoelectronics where radiative recombination is required to produce a photon; if the non-radiative life time is shorter than the radiative, a carrier is more likely to recombine non-radiatively. This results in low internal quantum efficiency.\n\nIn \"Shockley-Read-Hall recombination\" (\"SRH\"), also called \"trap-assisted recombination\", the electron in transition between bands passes through a new energy state (localized state) created within the band gap by a dopant or a defect in the crystal lattice; such energy states are called \"traps\". Non-radiative recombination occurs primarily at such sites. The energy is exchanged in the form of lattice vibration, a phonon exchanging thermal energy with the material.\n\nSince traps can absorb differences in momentum between the carriers, SRH is the dominant recombination process in silicon and other indirect bandgap materials. However, trap-assisted recombination can also dominate in direct bandgap materials under conditions of very low carrier densities (very low level injection) or in materials with high density of traps such as perovskites. The process is named after William Shockley, William Thornton Read and Robert N. Hall, who published it in 1962. \n\nEven though all the recombination events can be described in terms of electron movements, it is common to visualize the different processes in terms of excited electron and the electron \"holes\" they leave behind. In this context, if trap levels are close to the conduction band, they can temporarily immobilize excited electrons or in other words, they are \"electron traps\". On the other hand, if their energy lies close to the valence band they become \"hole traps.\" \n\nThe distinction between shallow and deep traps is commonly made depending on how close electron traps are to the conduction band and how close hole traps are to the valence band. If the difference between trap and band is smaller than the thermal energy kT it is often said that it is a \"shallow trap\". Alternatively, if the difference is larger than the thermal energy, it is called a deep trap. This difference is useful because shallow traps can be emptied more easily and thus are often not as detrimental to the performance of optoelectronic devices.\n\nIn the SRH model, four things can happen involving trap levels:\n\n\nWhen carrier recombination occurs through traps, we can replace the valence density of states by that of the intragap state. The term formula_37is replaced by the density of trapped electrons/holes formula_38. formula_39 Where formula_40 is the density of trap states and formula_41 is the probability of that occupied state. Considering a material containing both types of traps, we can define two trapping coefficients formula_42 and two de-trapping coeficients formula_43. In equilibrium, both trapping and de-trapping should be balanced (formula_44 and formula_45). Then, the four rates as a function of formula_41become:formula_47\nWhere formula_48 and formula_49 are the electron and hole densities when the quasi Fermi level matches the trap energy. \nIn steady-state condition, the net trapping rate of electrons should match the net recombination rate for holes, in other words: formula_50. This eliminates the occupation probability formula_41 and leads to the Shockley-Read-Hall expression for the trap-assisted recombination:formula_52Where the average lifetime for electrons and holes are defined as:formula_53\n\nIn \"Auger recombination\" the energy is given to a third carrier which is excited to a higher energy level without moving to another energy band. After the interaction, the third carrier normally loses its excess energy to thermal vibrations. Since this process is a three-particle interaction, it is normally only significant in non-equilibrium conditions when the carrier density is very high. The Auger effect process is not easily produced, because the third particle would have to begin the process in the unstable high-energy state.\n\nIn thermal equilibrium the Auger recombination formula_54 and thermal generation rate formula_18 equal each otherformula_56where formula_57 are the Auger capture probabilities.\n\nThe non-equilibrium Auger recombination rate formula_58 and resulting net recombination rate formula_59 under steady-state conditions areformula_60The Auger lifetime formula_61 is given byformula_62The mechanism causing LED efficiency droop was identified in 2007 as Auger recombination, which met with a mixed reaction. In 2013, an experimental study claimed to have identified Auger recombination as the cause of efficiency droop. However, it remains disputed whether the amount of Auger loss found in this study is sufficient to explain the droop. Other frequently quoted evidence against Auger as the main droop causing mechanism is the low-temperature dependence of this mechanism which is opposite to that found for the drop.\n\nTrap-assisted recombination at the surface of a semiconductor is referred to as surface recombination. This occurs when traps at or near the surface or interface of the semiconductor form due to dangling bonds caused by the sudden discontinuation of the semiconductor crystal. Surface recombination is characterized by surface recombination velocity which depends on the density of surface defects. In applications such as solar cells, surface recombination may be the dominant mechanism of recombination due to the collection and extraction of free carriers at the surface. In some applications of solar cells, a layer of transparent material with a large band gap, also known as a window layer, is used to minimize surface recombination. Passivation techniques are also employed to minimize surface recombination.\n\nFor free carriers in low-mobility systems, the recombination rate is often described with the Langevin recombination rate. The model is often used for disordered systems such as organic materials (and is hence relevant for organic solar cells) and other such systems. The Langevin recombination strength is defined as formula_63.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080263", "title": "Calvin, Ontario", "text": "Calvin, Ontario\n\nCalvin is a township in northeastern Ontario, Canada on the Mattawa River in Nipissing District. The township took its name from Delino Dexter Calvin, an Ontario lumber merchant and MPP based in Frontenac County.\n\nIn 2007, Calvin, along with the town of Mattawa and the townships of Papineau-Cameron, Mattawan and Bonfield cooperated to create a newly branded \"Mattawa Voyageur Country\" tourist region in order to promote the area.\n\nThe township comprises the communities of Eau Claire and Eau Claire Station.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080279", "title": "Kamppi metro station", "text": "Kamppi metro station\n\nKamppi metro station (; ) is a station on the Helsinki Metro. In addition to serving the area around Kamppi in central Helsinki, the station is integrated with the Kamppi Center bus terminal and shopping complex. Kamppi is served by both lines M1 and M2.\n\nThe station was opened on 1 March 1983, designed by Eero Hyvämäki, Jukka Karhunen, and Risto Parkkinen. It is located from the Ruoholahti metro station, and from the Central Railway Station. The station is the deepest of the Helsinki Metro stations, at a depth of below ground level and below sea level. It was built with a secondary platform located perpendicularly under the one in use, reserved for a future metro extension. Like other underground metro stations in Helsinki, Kamppi metro station was designed to also serve as a bomb shelter.\n\nA new eastern entrance, connecting directly to Kamppi Center, was opened on 2 June 2005.\n"}
{"id": "2080281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080281", "title": "Government Commissions: BBC Sessions 1996–2003", "text": "Government Commissions: BBC Sessions 1996–2003\n\nGovernment Commissions: BBC Sessions 1996–2003 is a compilation album by the post-rock group Mogwai released in 2005, consisting of sessions recorded between 1996 and 2003 for BBC Radio. Some of the tracks are different from previously released versions – for example, the recording of \"R U Still in 2 It?\" is entirely instrumental, whereas the studio version on \"Mogwai Young Team\" features a lead vocal from Arab Strap member Aidan Moffat. Following the death of BBC Radio 1 DJ John Peel in 2004, for whose show many of the tracks were recorded, Mogwai decided to dedicate the album to him. Peel's voice announces \"Ladies and Gentlemen, Mogwai!\" at the beginning of \"Hunted by a Freak\", the album's opener.\n\nIn 2012 it was awarded a double silver certification from the Independent Music Companies Association, which indicated sales of at least 40,000 copies throughout Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080282", "title": "Road traffic in Denmark", "text": "Road traffic in Denmark\n\nThis article contains guidelines for road traffic in Denmark\n\nIn Denmark all driving traffic must use right side lanes.\nCars and motorcycles must use low beam light (not parking light) at all times of the day.\nIn a car, all persons must wear seat belt.\nOn motorways and \"if necessary\" on other roads, turning signal must be used when changing lanes.\n\nUnless signs show other speed limit, the limit is 50 km/h in towns, 80 km/h outside towns and 130 on motorways (shown on signs). Trucks, buses and vehicles with trailers may not go faster than 70 km/h outside towns, except on motorways, where 80 is allowed.\n\nDrivers Licence: A1 and A2 is for small/large motorbike. B is for cars, max. 3500 kg, max. 8 passengers plus driver and a trailer with a max. legal weight of 750 kg. C is for truck over 3500 kg. D is for bus or car over 3500 kg and/or 8 passengers plus driver. E is for trailer over 750 kg. The B/E licence only allows for cars with heavy trailers, even if you have the C and/or D licence. The C/E licence allows for trailer on any vehicle type.\n\nPeople using rollerskates / -blades are legally categorized as pedestrians and must use pavement. However, skateboards and longboards are not allowed. Riding bikes on pavement is similarly not allowed, but very common. When bikes continue straight ahead in crossroads, they can either be in the right of the right-turn lane or in the right of the straight on lane.\nCars must wait until bikes have passed, before they turn right.\n\nVehicles must stop when pedestrians \"obviously intend to cross the road\" in a zebra crossing.\n\nDenmark has opportunities to integrate fluctuating energy sources, such as wind and solar power, into the grid and in the transport sector by focusing on intelligent battery systems (V2G) and plug-in vehicles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080294", "title": "Wiswesser rule", "text": "Wiswesser rule\n\nThe Wiswesser rule gives a simple method to determine the energetic sequence of the atomic subshells formula_1, where \"n\" is the principal quantum number and \"ℓ\" is the azimuthal quantum number. The energetic sequence of the subshells characterized by the quantum numbers formula_1 is the sequence that leads to a monotonically increasing row of function values for the Wiswesser function. The rule is named after William Wiswesser.\n\nFor example: if formula_4 and formula_5, this corresponds to a 2p-orbital.\n\nIf the results of this function for each shell and subshell are ordered, the resulting sequence is: 1s, 2s, 2p, 3s, 3p, 4s, 3d, 4p, 5s, 4d, 5p, 6s, 4f, 5d, 6p, 7s, 5f, 6d, 7p...\n\nTo illustrate this, the corresponding values of each of these shells can be found in the table below:\n\nWe can now clearly see that the aufbau principle and Wiswesser's rule come to the same order of filling electron shells.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080295", "title": "Laura Ingalls Wilder Historic Highway", "text": "Laura Ingalls Wilder Historic Highway\n\nThe Laura Ingalls Wilder Historic Highway is a named road connecting historic areas that relate to the life of author Laura Ingalls Wilder, best known for writing \"Little House on the Prairie\". The highway was first designated in 1995 as U.S. Route 14 from Lake Benton in southwest Minnesota to Mankato in the south-central part of the state. Since then, it has been extended into South Dakota, Iowa, and Wisconsin.\n\nWithin Minnesota, the highway is primarily made up of US 14 from the South Dakota border eastward to Rochester at U.S. Route 63. A branch extends north on 63 to Lake City, Minnesota where it briefly runs along U.S. Route 61 before following Minnesota State Highway 60 to the Wisconsin border. From Rochester, the highway also runs south along US 63 until the intersection with Minnesota State Highway 16 near Spring Valley. From there, it turns east until meeting U.S. Route 52 near Preston, following that road to the Iowa border.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080297", "title": "FSO Polonez", "text": "FSO Polonez\n\nThe FSO Polonez is a motor vehicle that was developed in Poland in collaboration with Fiat and produced by Fabryka Samochodów Osobowych from 1978 to 2002. It was based on the Polski Fiat 125p platform with a new hatchback design by Giorgetto Giugiaro. It was available in a variety of body styles that included two- and four- door compact-sized cars, station wagons, as well as commercial versions that included pickup truck and ambulance uses. With production total of over 1 million units, not counting pick-up and van variants. The Polonez was marketed in other nations and was popular in its domestic market until Poland joined the European Union in 2004. \n\nThe car's name comes from the Polish dance, the polonaise and was chosen through a readers' poll conducted by the \"Życie Warszawy\" newspaper.\n\nThe Polonez was based on the Polski Fiat 125p that Fabryka Samochodów Osobowych (FSO) built under license from Fiat. The internal components, including modernised 1.3/1.5 Litre engines, (pistons and carburetor), the chassis, and other mechanicals, were from the Polski Fiat 125p, but the body was an entirely new liftback body designed in the early 1970s by Centro Stile Fiat as a new prototype of Fiat. After the Polish side started co-operation with Fiat over a new car, the original design was changed due to Polish requirements. The car was meant to be equipped with Fiat's 2.0 Litre DOHC engines in the 1980s, but financial problems at the time made the purchase of a licence from Fiat impossible. This is also why the 125p was produced simultaneously alongside the Polonez for more than a decade. Moreover, mechanical modernisation only took place when it could be applied to both cars. This situation finally changed after the production of the 125p ended in 1991.\n\nAn advantage of Polonez is its passive safety. In 1978, it was the only Eastern European car built to pass U.S. crash tests. Crash tests were performed in 1994 according to EU safety regulations so that the Polonez could be exported worldwide. They proved the car to be very safe. The Caro 1.9 GLD hitting a concrete block (without an energy-absorbing metal cage) with 40% of the front at survived very well. All doors could be opened without any difficulty, there were no critical injuries for passengers, and no fuel leakage occurred.\n\nThe Polonez range was expanded to encompass a wide range of bodies. These included:\n\n\nThere were also many prototypes including: pickup made using rear part of Polski Fiat 125p pick-up, native-looking pickup (without frame in the rear), 4x4 off-roader (Analog), hydro-pneumatic suspension, Saloon (very different from Atu/Celina), 4x4 Truck without offroad suspension and van.\n\n\nIn May 1978, mass production commenced. The official premiere of the FSO Polonez 1500 and FSO Polonez 1300 took place. The FSO Polonez 2000 Rally with a 2-litre Fiat DOHC engine was displayed. In 1979 the FSO Polonez 2000, sold mostly to government officials, appeared. The Polonez 2000 has a Fiat twin-cam engine with 1,995 cc, , a 5-speed gearbox, a 0–100 km/h acceleration of 12.0 seconds, and a top speed. The FSO Polonez 2000 Rally debuted in the Rallye Monte Carlo. In 1980 the FSO Polonez 1300 and 1500 three-door appeared. With the same short front doors as the five-door version, it was produced in 1979–1981 in about 300 units.\n\nIn 1981, the FSO Polonez, in an economy version was added. This was sold without black side rubbing strips between the front and rear wheel, chrome bumper strips, rear window wiper-washer, fog lamps, luggage cover, and rev counter. Plain vinyl was used on the seats and in the luggage compartment. At the other end appeared the top version, FSO Polonez 1500 X. This was fitted with the AB 1,481 cc engine of , a five-speed gearbox (final drive ratio 4:3), and a radio. It was sold in the domestic market, usually for U.S. dollar payments.\n\nIn 1981 and 1983, the FSO Polonez Coupé with proper three-door bodywork was introduced. It had the usual 1,481 cc engine with and 2,0 DOHC Fiat. It was the first FSO model to feature electronic ignition and fuel economiser owing to a supply of pre-heated air to the suction manifold. Only a few dozen were produced.\n\nIn 1983 The Polski Fiat 125p was renamed FSO 125p, after FSO's licence rights to the Fiat badge expired. The new naming system for FSO's models was as follows:\n\n\nAlso in 1983, the FSO Polonez 2.0 D Turbo with an Italian VM Motori HR 488 engine of 1,995 cc appeared. It produces at 4,300 rpm and at 2,500 rpm. Final drive ratio is 3,727, for a 0–100 km/h acceleration time of 20,0 s, and a top speed of . Fuel consumption is 7,1/10,6/10,0 l/100 km, approximately 100 cars were produced to this specification.\n\n\nFSO Polonez - first cars with additional rear-side windows in the C-pillar.\n\nIn 1987, the FSO Polonez 1.6 LE appeared. It has a 1,598 cc inline-four with at 5,200 rpm and at 3,800 rpm. Top speed is . There was also the rare FSO 125p 1.6 ME, with the same engine but a top speed of . Very few were made.\n\nFSO Polonez modifications: stamped rear spoiler instead of plastic one, new model labels on the sticking foil, new version coding system with an 'S' supposedly meaning that the car had the additional rear-side windows in the C-pillar, a rule often broken in practice. The versions available were:\n\n1,3 SCE, 1.3 SL, 1.3 SLE, 1,5 CE, 1.5 L, 1,5 LE, 1,5 SCE, 1,5 SL, 1,5 SLE, 1,6 SLE, 2.0 SLE\n\nIn 1988, the FSO Polonez 1500 Turbo with AA 1,481 cc engine, at 7,000 rpm, at 3,200 rpm, 8,5 s, appeared. This was a rally version only, built to group A specifications. Following this competition version the FSO Polonez 1.5 SLE Turbo with turbocharged AA engine appeared in December 1989. With a compression ratio of 8.5 to 1, the 1,481 cc inline-four produces at 6,000 rpm, and at 3,200 rpm. The 100 km/h sprint was discharged in 11,0 s and the top speed is . A catalyzed version with was also available. The Turbo Polonez' were built mainly in rally versions (group N), although on special request a Turbo-kit could be installed in mass-produced cars.\n\n\nIn 1989, the '89 FSO Polonez appeared, the face-lift including a rear boot lid lowered to the bumper level, new rear lamps, rear window wiper-washer placed horizontally, and side repeaters placed horizontally near the front doors. In January 1989, the first catalysed Polonezes (1500 only) were shown at the Amsterdam Auto Show. Simultaneously, a version with an Italian FNM-built (Fratelli Negri Motori) turbo-diesel and a five-speed manual appeared (called the \"Polonez Piedra 1.3 Turbodiesel\"), specifically for the Belgian market. This engine has at 4,500 rpm, enough for a top speed of .\n\nIn 1990, the FSO Polonez 2.0 SLE appeared, fitted with Ford's 2.0-litre engine, 12.5 seconds acceleration to 100 km/h and a top speed of .\n\n1991 marked the end of FSO 125p production. Along with this, FSO's 1,295 cc engine ended production. FSO imports to the United Kingdom were temporarily stopped. On the other hand, the facelifted FSO Polonez Caro appeared. It had new headlamps and grille (similar to the design of the FSO Wars, a prototype car supposed to be successor to Polonez), new front and rear bumpers, steering wheel, new rooflet over instruments, and improved front crash safety. Also new was the FSO Polonez Caro 1.9 GLD with Citroën's 1,905 cc diesel engine, , , and a top speed of . The Caro GLD was sold across mainland Europe.\n\nThe other versions in pricelist:\n\n(December) FSO Polonez 1.4 GLI 16V with Rover 1396 cc engine, @ 6000 rpm, @ 5000 rpm, 11,9 s, , with or without catalytic converter.\n\n\nFSO Polonez Sedan prototype - later produced as the FSO Atu - with 4-door limousine bodywork, with completely new dashboard and upholstery (project by FSO), new rear suspension: rigid rear axle with longitudinal wishbones, reaction bars and coil springs. Rear lamps same as in Caro version.\n\nTwo prototypes of the FSO Polonez Kombi (station wagon).\nThe next prototype: FSO Analog 4WD, light off-road car with 4-door pick-up bodywork and four wheel drive.\n\nExport to the UK restarted: FSO Caro (Polonez 1.6 and 1.9 D) and FSO Pick-up (Truck)\n\n\nGirling-Lucas brakes introduced.\n\nProduction of the FSO Polonez Caro 1.9 GLD stopped.\n\nEnd of export to the Netherlands, the last foreign market for Polonez passenger versions; the last offering in the Netherlands consisted of:\n\n(summer) \n\n(August) The first Daewoo-FSO Lanos 1.5 S 4d leaves the FSO assembly line.(December) FSO Polonez Caro Plus and Atu Plus 1.6 GSI - with Delphi (Multec XM) multi-point fuel injection, 1598 cc , , ca. , new door handles introduced.\n\nFSO Truck sold in Italy by Daewoo dealer network.\n\n\nPolonez was exported to many countries, including Netherlands, Yugoslavia, France, Argentina, Bolivia, UK, China, Greece, Italy, Denmark, Belgium, Germany, Syria, Uruguay, Jordan, Norway, Finland, Egypt, Spain, Hungary, Serbia and others. Complete knock down (CKD) cars were assembled by El Nasr in Egypt from 1983 until 1993, succeeding the locally assembled 125p in that market. Assembly for Nasr was actually carried out by Arab American Vehicles. In the late 1980s, a batch of 167 Polonez hatchbacks was exported to New Zealand. They were also exported to Chile and Colombia (in the latter country also used as police cars and taxicabs) from the late 1980s to early 1990s. In some countries the FSO Polonez was sold as FSO Celina, FSO Prima, or FSO Caro.\n\nImports to the UK ceased in 1997, though sales continued in some parts of Western Europe - including France - for at least a year afterwards. They were withdrawn from those markets due to a combination of more stringent emissions requirements and declining demand.\n\nIn China, the Polonez platform was produced by YTO Group as the Dongfanghong/Yituo LT5021/LT5022 series, though with many modifications (trim pieces came from the Volkswagen Santana and power was sourced from locally produced 1.4L engines). These cars were built with locally-made spare parts for imported Polonez - common cars in China during that time, but with many other local parts substituted in (Dongfanghong was also working with Fiat at the time on tractor technology, which may have also influenced the choice of car); a selling point for the vehicles were that their parts were easily interchangeable with Polonez. These cars were not nearly as successful as their actual Polonez counterparts, and none are known to survive today. \n\nThe FSO Polonez suffered from relatively poor performance (except for those models equipped with the Fiat 2.0 DOHC, the Ford 2.0 SOHC, or the Rover 1.4 MPI 16V). Polonez parts were relatively cheap and readily available. After 1992, quality began to increase, especially after 1995 when Daewoo started its cooperation with FSO. Since 1997, the last production models (the PLUS series) offered new features such as air conditioning.\n\nProduction ended in 2002, after 24 years. The relatively low price of the Polonez was seen as the main advantage over other cars. But demand slumped, and the last versions of the Polonez produced were the Truck versions, valued for their low price, reliability, and high load capability: up to depending on the version.\n\nThe Polonez was a common sight in Central and Eastern Europe, particularly in its home country of Poland, but since Poland became a member of the European Union on 1 May 2004, the car was rapidly replaced by relatively cheap and tax-free used cars from Western Europe.\n\nFor many years the Polonez has been a popular choice for participants in the Złombol Charity Rally. In 2018 around 300 teams (~40% of all teams) used different versions of the Polonez in this event.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080298", "title": "David Ferrer", "text": "David Ferrer\n\nDavid Ferrer Ern (; ; born 2 April 1982) is a retired Spanish professional tennis player. A three-time Davis Cup champion with Spain, Ferrer has won tournaments at all levels (ATP 250, ATP 500, Masters 1000) except at a Grand Slam, and currently has the seventh highest career prize money earnings of all time among male tennis players (when not adjusting for inflation). Ferrer also holds the distinction of winning the most matches on the ATP tour without having won a Grand Slam tournament, passing Brian Gottfried who held this record for 32 years.\n\nDavid Ferrer turned professional in 2000 and in the first years of his career, was known as a clay-court specialist, having won half of his titles on the surface. However, he has had significant success on all surfaces, having reached the final of the French Open in 2013 (without losing a set), the semifinals of the Australian and US Opens twice each, and the quarterfinals of Wimbledon twice. He was part of the Spain Davis Cup team that won the finals in 2008, 2009, and 2011. He won the Paris Masters in 2012, and he was runner-up at six Masters tournaments as well as the Tennis Masters Cup in 2007. He is widely considered one of the best players not to have won a Grand Slam tournament. He first achieved a top-10 ranking in 2006 and reached a career-high ranking of world No. 3 in July 2013. He retired in his home tournament of Madrid after losing to Zverev in the round of 32. \n\nFerrer was born in Xàbia in the province of Alicante, but he moved to Gandia at age thirteen, followed two years later by a move to Barcelona to attend the Catalan Tennis Federation. \n\nOnce, as a teenager, when Ferrer did not practice hard enough, his coach, Javier Piles, locked him in a completely dark 2m x 2m ball closet for several hours, giving him only a piece of bread and a bit of water. After this incident he was fed up with tennis and went to work at a construction site, but after a week he returned to Piles and asked if he could remain at the club and play tennis. Piles continued to coach Ferrer until they parted ways at the end of 2013. Ferrer has said he considers Piles to be like a second father to him.\n\nFerrer turned professional in 2000, finishing as world no. 419, winning in Poland F1 and Spain F3, finishing runner-up in Spain F1. 2001 was not a particularly good year for him. He won his first career Challenger title in Sopot and reached the semifinals at Manerbio. He also reached the semifinals in Spain F15 and Spain F16.\n\nIn 2002, he played consistently in ATP (10–6) and Challenger (35–13) tournaments, winning his first ATP title in Bucharest (defeated José Acasuso) and reaching his first ATP final in just his second ATP event in Umag (defeated David Nalbandian and Guillermo Coria, lost to Carlos Moyá). He won Challenger titles in Naples, Valencia, and Sassuolo. All 10 ATP match wins and 34 of 35 Challenger wins came on clay.\n\nThe highlight of 2003 was Ferrer's victory against Andre Agassi at the Rome Masters. He made his debut at all four Grand Slam tournaments, as well as six ATP Masters Series events. In Rome, he upset the defending champion Agassi in the first round and lost to Ivan Ljubičić in the second round. Ferrer advanced to the second round at the French Open and Wimbledon. He reached his third career final in Sopot and lost to Guillermo Coria. In doubles, he reached his first career final in Acapulco with Fernando Vicente. He compiled a 13–16 record on clay courts, 6–10 on hard, 1–1 on grass, and had a year-ending ranking of world no. 71.\n\nIn 2004, Ferrer reached the quarterfinals in Buenos Aires, Valencia, and at the ATP Masters Series Hamburg (defeated no. 6 David Nalbandian, lost to Guillermo Coria). He advanced to the semifinals in Stuttgart (lost to Gastón Gaudio). Later in the year he advanced to the quarterfinals in Bucharest and the semifinals in Palermo (lost to Tomáš Berdych) and Lyon (defeated Juan Carlos Ferrero, lost to Xavier Malisse). He ended the year with a ranking of world no. 49.\n\nIn 2005, Ferrer advanced to the semifinals in Miami by defeating David Nalbandian, Juan Carlos Ferrero, and Dominik Hrbatý, but lost to Rafael Nadal. He closed the year with a quarterfinal showing in Madrid, where he defeated Puerta, but lost to Robby Ginepri, and Paris, where he lost to Andy Roddick. He lost only once in the first round of nine Masters Series events, while compiling a 20–9 record. In doubles, Ferrer won his first two ATP titles in Viña del Mar and Acapulco (with Ventura) and earned a career-high US$951,772. He finished the year with a ranking of world no. 14.\n\nFerrer opened the year with a quarterfinal showing in Auckland, where he lost to Olivier Rochus. He broke into the top 10 ATP rankings for the first time, following a personal-best fourth-round showing at the Australian Open, where he defeated Mario Ančić, but lost to Fabrice Santoro. He was in the top 10 for five weeks during the year. Then, playing in the first round of a Davis Cup tie versus Belarus, he went 2–3 indoors, losing to Vladimir Voltchkov in the second rubber. In March, he reached the semifinals in Miami for a second straight year, where he defeated no. 4 Andy Roddick, but lost to Roger Federer. In his second clay-court tournament of the year in Monte-Carlo, he lost to Federer. He also advanced to the quarterfinals at the Masters Series Hamburg, falling to eventual champion Tommy Robredo. In Düsseldorf, he posted wins over two top-10 players, world no. 4 Ivan Ljubičić and world no. 9 Fernando González. He reached the third round at the French Open and a career-best fourth round at Wimbledon, where he defeated González in the third round, but lost to Lleyton Hewitt. In July, he won a second career ATP title in a five-hour final in Stuttgart. He came back from two sets to one and a 1–5 deficit against Acasuso, saving one match point down 4–5 in the fourth set. In August, he reached the quarterfinals in Cincinnati, Ohio, where he defeated no. 10 Marcos Baghdatis, but lost to González, followed by a third-round showing at New Haven, where he lost to Agustín Calleri. At the US Open, he reached the third round for the second consecutive year, but lost to Mikhail Youzhny. Ferrer closed the year by reaching the quarterfinals in Basel, where he lost to Federer. For the year, he went 3–5 versus top-10 opponents and compiled records of 18–8 on clay and 17–13 on hard court. He finished the year ranked world no. 14 and in the top 15 for the second consecutive year.\nFerrer began the year by winning Auckland, defeating Tommy Robredo in the final. At the 2007 Australian Open, he defeated Kristian Pless, Thomas Johansson, and Radek Štěpánek, and lost in the fourth round to Mardy Fish in five sets. One month later, he reached the quarterfinals at Rotterdam. He had quarterfinal finishes at Indian Wells and Monte-Carlo and reached the fourth round in Miami, the semifinals in Barcelona, and the quarterfinals in Hamburg.\n\nAt the French Open, he was stopped by Fernando Verdasco in the third round. At Wimbledon, he was eliminated by Frenchman Paul-Henri Mathieu in the second round.\n\nIn July, he captured his second title of the year and fourth of his career, beating Nicolás Almagro in the final of the Swedish Open in Båstad. He then advanced to the quarterfinals in Cincinnati, defeating Andy Roddick in the third round. At the US Open, he was seeded 15th and knocked out 24th-seeded David Nalbandian in the third round, and then upset second-seeded compatriot Rafael Nadal in the fourth round in four sets. He beat 20th-seeded Juan Ignacio Chela in the quarterfinals and reached his first Grand Slam semifinal, where he was defeated by third seed Novak Djokovic. His performance at the US Open brought his ranking up to world no. 8. Then, Ferrer captured his third title of the year in Tokyo, defeating Richard Gasquet in the final. At the Paris Masters, he made it to the quarterfinals, where he lost to David Nalbandian.\n\nFerrer qualified as the sixth seed for the year-ending Tennis Masters Cup. To begin, Ferrer upset third seed Djokovic in his first round-robin match, and then defeated second seed Rafael Nadal. He sealed his qualification for the knock-out stage by defeating eighth seed Richard Gasquet. He was the only man to have a perfect record in the round-robin stage and had the best win/loss set record (6–1). Ferrer next defeated fifth seed Andy Roddick in the semifinals. In the final, Ferrer lost to top seed Roger Federer. He ended the year with a career-high ranking of world no. 5.\n\nFerrer opened 2008 with a quarterfinal loss to unseeded Julien Benneteau of France in Auckland, where Ferrer was top seed. He reached the second week of the Australian Open, however, as the fifth seed, without dropping a set in the first three rounds. He then went on to defeat 22nd seed Juan Carlos Ferrero in four sets in the fourth round, before falling to third seed and eventual champion Novak Djokovic in the quarterfinals. On 25 February, Ferrer became world no. 4, despite losing in the second round in Rotterdam.\nOn 20 April, he captured his first ATP title of the year, and the sixth in his career, when he defeated Nicolás Almagro in the final of Valencia. He saved three match points against Fernando Verdasco in the quarterfinals, and in the final, won the definitive set when he went down 5–2 in the third set, with two break points for Almagro. Ferrer arrived at the quarterfinals in the Monte Carlo Masters, losing against the eventual tournament champion Rafael Nadal, despite having five set points in the second set. In Barcelona the following week, Ferrer reached the final, after defeating Nicolás Lapentti, sixth seed Tommy Robredo, and fourteenth seed Stanislas Wawrinka. He again lost to Nadal in the final. Ferrer made it to the quarterfinals of the French Open, matching his previous best appearance in 2005. In his first two rounds, he defeated Steve Darcis and Fabrice Santoro. He then prevailed in two five-set matches over Lleyton Hewitt and Radek Štěpánek in the third and fourth rounds, respectively. He eventually fell to local favorite Gaël Monfils in four sets.\n\nFerrer then began his grass-court season with another title at 's-Hertogenbosch in the Netherlands. He defeated Croatian Mario Ančić and Argentine Juan Martín del Potro en route to the final, where he won in straight sets over Frenchman Marc Gicquel. This was his seventh career title and the first on grass. With this win, he became the second Spaniard (after Nadal) to win a grass-court tournament after a 36-year drought. At Wimbledon, Ferrer was seeded fifth. In the first round, he defeated Sergiy Stakhovsky, who forfeited the match while down in sets 2–0 and up 3–1 in the third set. In the second round, Ferrer defeated Russian Igor Andreev in four sets. He was then eliminated by Ančić in the third round in four sets.\n\nRepresenting Spain at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Ferrer was eliminated by Janko Tipsarević in the first round. At the US Open, Ferrer reached the third round as the fourth seed, where he lost Kei Nishikori, ranked 126, in one of the biggest upsets of the tournament. Ferrer saved five match points before losing the match. Seeded first at the China Open in Beijing, Ferrer was defeated by Israeli Dudi Sela in the second round 3–6, 3–6. Following a first-round bye, sixth-seeded Ferrer lost in the second round of the Madrid Masters to fellow Spaniard Feliciano López 4–6, 6–7.\n\nFerrer began his Season at the Heineken Open losing to Sam Querrey in the semifinals. At the Australian Open, he was upset by Marin Čilić in the third round. He then bounced back with a semifinal showing at the SA Tennis Open falling to Jérémy Chardy after dominating the first set, in a tightly contested second and third set. He reached his first final of the year at the Dubai Tennis Championships, losing to Novak Djokovic in straight sets. However, he bounced back defeating Novak Djokovic in a Davis Cup tie. At the Masters 1000 BNP Paribas Open and Sony Ericsson Open, he was able to reach the fourth round, losing to Andy Roddick and Juan Martín del Potro, respectively.\nIn the clay season, Ferrer played his first event at the Monte-Carlo Rolex Masters. After cruising through the first two rounds, he was routed by Fernando Verdasco. He rebounded by reaching the final of the Barcelona Open Banco Sabadell, losing to Rafael Nadal in the final. However, the Spaniard suffered early loses at the Internazionali BNL d'Italia, Estoril Open, and Mutua Madrileña Madrid Open. At the French Open, he fell to surprise finalist Robin Söderling in the third round. He played his Wimbledon warm-up at the Ordina Open and was upset by compatriot Iván Navarro in the quarterfinals. At Wimbledon, Ferrer suffered another third-round loss in a Grand Slam, this time falling to Czech Radek Štěpánek in five sets.\n\nFerrer then came back to clay at the International German Open, where he was able to reach his fifth semifinal of the year, but lost to Russian Nikolay Davydenko. However, the Spaniard had an abysmal US Open Series, losing in the third round of 2009 Western & Southern Financial Group Masters and in the second round of the Rogers Cup and the US Open. He then suffered back-to-back first-round loses at the Proton Malaysian Open and China Open, losing to Mikhail Youzhny and Fernando González. He also fell to eventual semifinalist Feliciano López in the second round of the Shanghai ATP Masters 1000. He was the defending champion at the Valencia Open 500, but withdrew prior to his second-round match against compatriot Albert Montañés due to a hamstring injury. He then helped Spain capture the Davis Cup title, when he defeated Radek Štěpánek in five sets.\n\nFerrer lost in the second round of the 2010 Australian Open to Marcos Baghdatis, after winning the first two sets, in a match lasting just over four hours.\nFerrer's next tournament was the SA Tennis Open. In the first round, he defeated Karol Beck. In the second round, he beat Filip Prpic, and then won his quarterfinal against Somdev Devvarman. However, in the semifinals, he lost to Stéphane Robert. Ferrer's next tournament was the Copa Telmex, where he was the top seed. He beat Simon Greul in the first round, and then defeated Frederico Gil in the second round. Ferrer then defeated Igor Andreev in the quarterfinals and went on to defeat Albert Montañés. However, in the final, he fell to Juan Carlos Ferrero.\n\nFerrer's next tournament was the 2010 Abierto Mexicano Telcel, where he was the third seed. In the first round, he defeated Potito Starace and then defeated Thomaz Bellucci in the second round. He defeated Pablo Cuevas in the third round. In the semifinals, he defeated Fernando González. In the final, he avenged his previous defeat by Juan Carlos Ferrero for his eighth career title. This was Ferrero's third straight final and also ended Ferrero's 14-match winning streak. His ranking also rose to no. 16. In the first round of the 2010 Davis Cup, Ferrer defeated Marco Chiudinelli and then Stanislas Wawrinka to advance Spain to the quarterfinals of the 2010 Davis Cup, where they faced France. Ferrer's next tournament was the 2010 BNP Paribas Open. He was the 13th seed, which gave him a bye into the second round. In the second round, he was defeated by James Blake. Ferrer's next tournament was the 2010 Sony Ericsson Open, where he was seeded 15th. In his second-round match, he defeated Michaël Llodra, and then defeated Ivo Karlović. However, in the fourth round, he was defeated by Rafael Nadal.\n\nFerrer then entered the European clay-court swing. His first tournament was the 2010 Monte-Carlo Rolex Masters, where he was seeded 11th. In the first round, he defeated qualifier Peter Luczak, and then defeated Andrey Golubev in the second round. He defeated Ivan Ljubičić in the fourth round. In the quarterfinals, he defeated Philipp Kohlschreiber to advance to the semifinals, where he was again defeated by Nadal. Next, Ferrer participated in the 2010 Torneo Godo, where he was seeded eighth. He had a first-round bye and defeated Marcel Granollers in the second round. In the third round, he crushed Simone Bolelli before Bolelli retired with a wrist injury, and then defeated Thomaz Bellucci in the quarterfinals. In the semifinals, he played Fernando Verdasco. Ferrer was leading Verdasco, 7–6, 4–2, before ultimately losing. Ferrer's next tournament was the 2010 Rome Masters, where he was seeded 13th. In the first round, Ferrer defeated Evgeny Korolev, and in the second round, he defeated Potito Starace. In the third round, he defeated world no. 5 Andy Murray, and then in the quarterfinals, he defeated world no. 10 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga. He faced world no. 9 Fernando Verdasco for a spot in his first Masters 1000 event final. Ferrer ultimately succumbed to Rafael Nadal in the final. Due to his fantastic run in Rome, his ranking increased to world no. 12. Ferrer's next tournament was the 2010 Mutua Madrileña Madrid Open, where he was seeded ninth. In the first round, he defeated Jérémy Chardy and defeated Marcos Baghdatis after fending off a match point. He then defeated Marin Čilić to advance to the quarterfinals. There, he, for the second successive time, beat world no. 4 Andy Murray. In the semifinals, Ferrer lost to world no. 1 Roger Federer in three sets. Ferrer's next tournament was the 2010 French Open, where he entered as a favorite. He began his campaign with a victory over French wildcard David Guez, and then defeated Xavier Malisse when Malisse had to retire. In the third round. he fell to surprise semifinalist Jürgen Melzer.\n\nFerrer's next tournament was the Wimbledon, where he was the ninth seed. In the first round, he defeated Nicolas Kiefer, and then defeated Florent Serra in the second round. In the third round, he defeated Jérémy Chardy in five sets, with Chardy serving for the match at 5–4 in the fifth. In the fourth round, he was defeated by Robin Söderling, again in five sets, despite being two points away from the match on two occasions. Ferrer next played for Spain in the 2010 Davis Cup. He lost his first rubber to Gaël Monfils of France. Spain ultimately lost to France 0–5. Ferrer then traveled to Sweden to play in the 2010 Swedish Open, where he was seeded third. Due to his seed, he received a bye in the first round and defeated Fabio Fognini in the second round. He then defeated Pablo Cuevas in the quarterfinals to advance to the semifinals. Ferrer also extended his ATP best wins on clay in 2010 to 31 wins. However, he lost to Robin Söderling in the semifinals. He was then supposed to play in the 2010 International German Open as the second seed, but had to withdraw due to a shoulder injury.\nFerrer's next tournament was the 2010 Rogers Cup, where he was seeded tenth, but lost in the first round to David Nalbandian. Despite his loss, his ranking increased to world no. 11. Ferrer then traveled to Cincinnati to play in the 2010 Western & Southern Financial Group Masters, where he was once again seeded tenth. In the first round, he defeated Alexandr Dolgopolov, and then defeated Sam Querrey in the second round. However, in the third round, he lost to Nikolay Davydenko, despite being up a break of serve twice in the third set. Ferrer's next event was the 2010 US Open, where he was seeded tenth. In the first round, he defeated Alexandr Dolgopolov, and then defeated Benjamin Becker in the second round. He then defeated Daniel Gimeno-Traver for a spot in the round of 16. However, he lost to Fernando Verdasco despite being up 4–2 in the fifth set, and 4–1 in the tiebreaker. Due to Ferrer's appearance in the round of 16, Ferrer was ensured to return to the top 10, to no. 10 in the world. Ferrer then traveled to Malaysia to play in the 2010 Proton Malaysian Open, where he was seed fifth. In the first round, he defeated Bernard Tomic, and then defeated Yuki Bhambri for a spot in the quarterfinals. He then defeated world no. 7 Tomáš Berdych in the quarterfinals. However, in the semifinals, he was upset by Andrey Golubev. Ferrer then traveled to Beijing to play in the 2010 China Open as the eighth seed. In the first round, he defeated Denis Istomin, and then defeated Yen-Hsun Lu in the second round. In the quarterfinals, he defeated Robin Söderling for a spot in the semifinals. In the semifinals, he defeated Ivan Ljubičić for a spot in the finals. However, in the final, he lost to Novak Djokovic in a rain-delayed match. With this run to the final, Ferrer once again returned to the top 10, at world no. 10, and this also put him in the eighth position for qualifying for the year-end championships.\n\nFerrer then traveled to Shanghai to play in the 2010 Shanghai Rolex Masters, where he was seeded 11th. In the first round, he defeated Michaël Llodra, and then defeated Thomaz Bellucci in the second round. However, he was defeated by Robin Söderling in the third round. Due to his round of 16 showing, he moved to no. 8 in the world. Also, he moved to no. 7 in the race to the year-end championships. Ferrer then traveled to Valencia to play in the 2010 Valencia Open 500 as the hometown favorite. At the 2010 Valencia Open 500, he was seeded fourth and defeated Guillermo García-López in the first round. He then defeated qualifier Teymuraz Gabashvili for a spot in the quarterfinals. He then defeated Potito Starace to advance to the semifinals. He then defeated Robin Söderling for a spot in the final. In the final, he defeated Marcel Granollers for the title, his ninth career title. With this victory, he moved to no. 7 in the race to the year-end championships and virtually secured his spot at the 2010 ATP World Tour Finals, and also improved his ranking to world no. 7. Ferrer's final regular-season tournament was the 2010 BNP Paribas Masters, where he was seeded no. 7. Due to his seeding, he received a bye into the second round and defeated Fabio Fognini. However, he lost to Jürgen Melzer in the third round. Despite his loss, Ferrer still qualified for the Barclays ATP World Tour Finals due to the fact that Fernando Verdasco lost his third-round match, sealing Ferrer's seventh spot and his second appearance since 2007. Ferrer then traveled to London to play in the 2010 ATP World Tour Finals, where he was seeded seventh. In his first match, he lost to Federer, and in his second match he lost to Söderling. Ferrer then lost to Andy Murray to finish the 2010 ATP World Tour Finals with an 0–3 record. Ferrer finished the year with a 60–24 record, and once again in the top 10, finishing at world no. 7.\n\nFerrer began his 2011 ATP World Tour season at the 2011 Heineken Open, where he was the top seed. Due to his seeding, he received a bye into the second round and defeated Tobias Kamke. He then defeated Philipp Kohlschreiber to advance to the semifinals, and then defeated Santiago Giraldo for a berth in the final, where he played David Nalbandian. In the final, Ferrer defeated Nalbandian for his first title of the year and the tenth in his career.\nFerrer then traveled to Melbourne to play in the 2011 Australian Open, where he was seeded seventh. In the first round, he defeated Jarkko Nieminen, and next defeated Michael Russell in the second round. He then defeated Ričardas Berankis for a spot in the round of 16, where he then defeated Milos Raonic for a spot in his second Australian Open quarterfinal. He beat an injured world no. 1 Rafael Nadal for a spot in the semifinals, winning in three sets. This notably ended Nadal's quest to win four straight majors. He lost to fifth seed Andy Murray in the semifinal. With his run to the semifinals of the Australian Open, his ranking rose to world no. 6.\n\nFerrer then traveled to Rotterdam to play in the 2011 ABN AMRO World Tennis Tournament, where he was seeded third, but lost in the first round to Jarkko Nieminen. Next, Ferrer traveled to Acapulco for the 2011 Abierto Mexicano Telcel, where he was the top seed and defending champion. In the first round, he defeated Adrian Ungur, and then defeated Santiago González in the second round. In the quarterfinals, he defeated Juan Mónaco, and then defeated Alexandr Dolgopolov in the semifinals to advance to his second consecutive final at the Abierto Mexicano Telcel. He defeated compatriot Nicolás Almagro for his second consecutive title in Acapulco and his 11th career title.\n\nFerrer then traveled to Indian Wells to play in the 2011 BNP Paribas Open, where he was seeded sixth. Due to his seeding, he received a bye into the second round, where he lost to big-serving Ivo Karlović. Ferrer then travelled to Miami to play in the 2011 Sony Ericsson Open, where he was seeded sixth. Due to his seeding, he received a bye into the second round, where he defeated qualifier Igor Kunitsyn for a spot in the third round. In the third round, he defeated Somdev Devvarman, and then defeated Marcel Granollers for a spot in the quarterfinals. However, in the quarterfinals, he fell to Mardy Fish, and later said it was due to indigestion.\n\nFerrer then traveled to Europe to begin the clay-court season. His first tournament was the 2011 Monte-Carlo Rolex Masters, where he was seeded fourth. Due to his seeding, he received a bye into the second round, where he defeated fellow Spaniard Feliciano López. In the third round, he defeated Milos Raonic, and then defeated Viktor Troicki for a spot in his second consecutive Monte Carlo semifinal. He dominated Jürgen Melzer in the semifinals to advance to his second Masters 1000 final, where he ultimately fell to Rafael Nadal.\n\nFerrer then traveled back to Spain to play in the 2011 Barcelona Open Banco Sabadell, where he was seeded fourth. Due to his seeding, he received a by into the second round, where he beat Carlos Berlocq, and Victor Hănescu in the third round to reach the quarterfinals. In the quarterfinals, he defeated Jürgen Melzer, and then defeated Nicolás Almagro for a spot in his third Barcelona final. However, in the final, he lost to Rafael Nadal for the second week in a row. Ferrer then traveled to Madrid to play in the 2011 Mutua Madrileña Madrid Open as the sixth seed. Due to his seeding, he received a bye into the second round, where he defeated Adrian Mannarino. He then went on to play Sergiy Stakhovsky, whom he defeated in straight sets. In the quarterfinals, Ferrer lost to Novak Djokovic. It was his first defeat in their four meetings on clay. Ferrer then pulled out of Rome, due to injury, but then traveled to Paris to play in the French Open.\nAt the French Open, Ferrer was seeded seventh. He advanced with easy wins over Jarkko Nieminen, Julien Benneteau, and Sergiy Stakhovsky, before ultimately falling to ninth seed Gaël Monfils in five sets. Due to his round of 16 appearance, Ferrer moved up to no. 6 in the world. Ferrer then took a month off before traveling to London to play in the 2011 Wimbledon Championships, as the seventh seed. In the first round, he defeated Benoît Paire, and then defeated Ryan Harrison in five sets. He then defeated Karol Beck in straight sets to advance to the round of 16. However, he fell to eventual semifinalist Jo Wilfried Tsonga.\n\nAfter competing in two consecutive majors, Ferrer traveled to Sweden to play in the 2011 Swedish Open as the second seed. He reached the semifinals, where he defeated Nicolás Almagro, but lost to Robin Söderling. Ferrer was then set to begin his summer hard-court series in Toronto, but pulled out with a hairline fracture of his left wrist. He healed in time to play in the 2011 Western & Southern Open as the fifth seed. He won his second-round match against Grigor Dimitrov, before falling to Gilles Simon. Due to the result, Ferrer entered the top 5 in the ATP rankings again, becoming world no. 5.\n\nAt the US Open, he lost in the fourth round to Andy Roddick in four sets. At the 2011 Shanghai Rolex Masters, Ferrer defeated Milos Raonic, former world no. 1 Juan Carlos Ferrero, former world no. 1 and tenth seed Andy Roddick, and Feliciano López on his way to the final that he lost to second seed Andy Murray in straight sets. At the 2011 ATP World Tour Finals, Ferrer's first match was against world no. 3 Andy Murray and the Spaniard won it. In his next match against world no. 1 Novak Djokovic, Ferrer won in just 75 minutes, securing his spot in the semifinals. In the last game of the round-robin stage, Ferrer lost to Tomáš Berdych in three sets. In the semifinals, Ferrer faced the defending champion and world no. 3 Roger Federer and lost in straight sets. In the Davis Cup final in December, Ferrer won his rubber against Juan Martín del Potro in five sets.\n\nFerrer started 2012 by participating in the Mubadala World Tennis Championship held in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. He defeated world no. 6 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and world no. 2 Rafael Nadal to reach his first final in the exhibition tournament. In the final, he lost to world no. 1 Novak Djokovic. He won his first tournament of 2012 in Auckland, New Zealand at the Heineken Open ATP 250 (his third Auckland title and 12th Tour title) over Olivier Rochus. At the 2012 Australian Open, Ferrer was seeded fifth, and he defeated Rui Machado, Ryan Sweeting, 27th seed Juan Ignacio Chela, and 17th seed Richard Gasquet on his way to the quarterfinals. He then faced world no. 1 Novak Djokovic and lost in straight sets.\nFerrer was seeded first at the 2012 Copa Claro tournament and won it, defeating 2011 champion and second seed Nicolás Almagro. It was Ferrer's second title of the year and 13th of his career. His third singles title of the year and 14th overall came in Acapulco, Mexico a week after his win in Argentina. He beat fellow Spaniard Fernando Verdasco in the final, losing only three games. At the 2012 Sony Ericsson Open, Ferrer beat Bernard Tomic, Julien Benneteau, and 2009 US Open champion Juan Martín del Potro in straight sets to reach the quarterfinals, where he faced world no. 1 Novak Djokovic. Ferrer lost in straight sets.\n\nAt the 2012 Monte-Carlo Rolex Masters he was seeded fifth, but was upset in his second-round match by Brazilian Thomaz Bellucci. The following week, Ferrer reached the final at the 2012 Barcelona Open Banco Sabadell, after winning over Filip Krajinović, Albert Montañés, Feliciano López, and Milos Raonic. He then lost the final to defending champion Rafael Nadal. At the 2010 Muatua Madrid Open, held for the first time on blue clay, Ferrer defeated Radek Štěpánek and Nicolás Almagro on his way to the quarterfinals. He then faced world no. 3 and eventual champion Roger Federer and lost in straight sets. At the 2012 Internazionali BNL d'Italia, Ferrer was seeded fifth and defeated Fernando Verdasco, Gilles Simon, and Richard Gasquet on his way to the semifinals. There he lost to eventual champion Rafael Nadal. At the 2012 French Open, Ferrer lost only 25 games defeating Lukáš Lacko, Benoît Paire, Mikhail Youzhny, and Marcel Granollers on his way to the quarterfinals. There he won over world no. 4 Andy Murray and reached his first Roland Garros semifinal. He then lost to defending champion Rafael Nadal, 6–2, 6–2, 6–1.\n\nFerrer won his fourth singles title of the year and 15th overall in 's-Hertogenbosch, Netherlands. He beat Pierre-Ludovic Duclos, Leonardo Mayer, Igor Sijsling, Benoît Paire, and Philipp Petzschner on his way to his second grass singles title. Ferrer then reached the quarterfinals of Wimbledon, defeating Dustin Brown, Kenny de Schepper, Andy Roddick, and Juan Martín del Potro. Ferrer made it to the last eight for the first time at the tenth attempt. Ferrer then went on to lose the match to Andy Murray in a four-set thriller. Ferrer entered the quarterfinals of Swedish Open by defeating Simone Bolelli. He eventually advanced to the finals, where he defeated countryman Nicolás Almagro for his fifth title of the year.\n\nAt the US Open, Ferrer made it to his fourth career Grand Slam semifinal, where he lost in four sets to Novak Djokovic. The semifinal had to be played over two days because of the threat of a tornado on the final Saturday. He had previously defeated Kevin Anderson, Igor Sijsling, Lleyton Hewitt, Richard Gasquet, and Janko Tipsarević en route to the semifinals. Ferrer won his sixth title of the season in Valencia, defeating Alexandr Dolgopolov in the final. Ferrer won his first Masters 1000 title in Paris at the end of the season, beating Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the quarterfinals, Michaël Llodra in the semifinals, and Jerzy Janowicz in the final. This was also his seventh ATP Tour-level title of the year, the most of any player that season. He also won more matches that year than any other player, male or female. In late 2012 Ferrer faced questions about his involvement with doping doctor Luis Garcia del Moral.\n\nFerrer started his 2013 season by successfully defending his Heineken Open title defeating Philipp Kohlschreiber in straight sets. At the Australian Open, Ferrer came back from two sets down to defeat fellow Spaniard Nicolas Almagro in the quarterfinals. In his semifinal match he was thrashed by eventual champion Djokovic in straight sets, winning only five games. Following the continued absence of Rafael Nadal from the ATP Tour, Ferrer became the Spanish no. 1 for the first time in his career, re-entering the top 4 in the rankings on 28 January 2013. Ferrer then won his second title of the year at the Copa Claro defeating Stanislas Wawrinka in three sets. but lost to Nadal in the 2013 Abierto Mexicano Telcel final in Acapulco, winning only two games. He then suffered an early loss at the 2013 BNP Paribas Open, falling to Kevin Anderson in his first match of the tournament.\n\nHe then reached the final of Miami Masters after outlasting Jürgen Melzer and Tommy Haas, but lost to Andy Murray after holding a championship point in the deciding set, Ferrer moved back into the top 4 as a result. Ferrer withdrew from Monte Carlo and was upset by Dmitry Tursunov at the Barcelona Open Banco Sabadell. Ferrer reached his fifth final of the year at the Portugal Open facing Wawrinka, but this time falling in straight sets to the Swiss.\n\nHe then lost to Nadal in back-to-back quarterfinals in the Masters event of Mutua Madrid Open and Internazionali BNL d'Italia. At the French Open, Ferrer reached his first Grand Slam final without dropping a set. He defeated three of his compatriots, Albert Montañés, Feliciano López, and Tommy Robredo, all in straight sets, to reach his sixth Grand Slam semifinal. He then defeated sixth seed Jo-Wilfried Tsonga to reach the final, where he was defeated by defending champion Rafael Nadal. Despite failing to win the title, Ferrer regained the world no. 4 spot from Nadal on the basis of earning more points than the previous year, while Nadal defended his entire points total from 2012.\n\nAt the 2013 TOPSHELF Open in 's-Hertogenbosch, Ferrer went out in the first round to veteran Belgian Xavier Malisse despite being the defending champion. His next tournament was Wimbledon, where he made it to the quarterfinals for the second consecutive year before falling to Juan Martín del Potro in straight sets. Ferrer had disastrous US Open tune-ups at the 2013 Rogers Cup and 2013 Western & Southern Open, winning only one match and losing to Russians Alex Bogomolov, Jr. in the second round and Dmitry Tursunov in the third round. He rebounded at the US Open, losing to Richard Gasquet in the quarterfinals in five sets despite taking the third and fourth sets, in his first loss since 2008 to the Frenchman.\n\nHe then reached another final, at the If Stockholm Open facing Grigor Dimitrov, but lost in three sets to hand the Bulgarian his first title. Ferrer then followed it up with another final appearance at the Valencia Open 500, where he was the defending champion. However, he fell to Russian Mikhail Youzhny in straight sets. He reached his third final in as many weeks at the BNP Paribas Masters, where he was the defending champion after defeating world no. 1 Rafael Nadal, ending his nine-match losing streak to the Spaniard. However, he lost to Novak Djokovic in straight sets, despite serving for each set in the tenth game. This was Ferrer's seventh consecutive loss in a final.\n\nA big change in December was his parting with coach Javier Piles, who had been his coach from the beginning of his career.\n\nHe did not win any matches at the year-end championships for a disappointing end to the year. However, he had his best year-end finish in the rankings at no. 3.\n\nFerrer began his 2014 season losing to Daniel Brands in the second round of the Qatar Open. He reached the semifinals of the Heineken Open, where he was defeated by Lu Yen-hsun. Ferrer reached the quarterfinals of the 2014 Australian Open, where he lost to Tomas Berdych in four sets. In February, Ferrer successfully defended his title at the 2014 Copa Claro, which was his first title of the year. In 2014 Rio Open semifinals, Ferrer was defeated by Alexandr Dolgopolov in straight sets. At the 2014 Abierto Mexicano Telcel quarterfinals, Ferrer retired against Kevin Anderson due to leg injury.\n\nFerrer made his return in the 2014 Sony Open Tennis reaching fourth round before losing to Kei Nishikori after squandering four match points. He made the semifinals of the 2014 Monte-Carlo Rolex Masters. In the quarterfinals, he beat Rafael Nadal for the first time in 10 years on clay, before losing to Stanislas Wawrinka in the semifinals. He made the semifinals again at the 2014 Mutua Madrid Open, where he lost to Kei Nishikori. He was defeated by Novak Djokovic in the quarterfinals at the 2014 Internazionali BNL d'Italia. Ferrer made it to the 2014 French Open quarterfinals. He lost to world no. 1 and compatriot, Rafael Nadal, in four sets.\n\nFerrer was defeated by world no.118 Andrey Kuznetsov in the second round of the 2014 Wimbledon Championships ending his 10 grand slam quarterfinal streak. He made it to the quarterfinals in the 2014 Swedish Open before losing to Carlos Berlocq in straight sets. He made it to the final of the 2014 International German Open. In the final, he was defeated by Leonardo Mayer.\n\nHe began his American Swing by reaching quarterfinals of the 2014 Rogers Cup before losing to Roger Federer. He made it to the final of the 2014 Western & Southern Open. In the final, he was again defeated by Roger Federer. However, 2014 US Open became a disappointment, when he was defeated by Gilles Simon.\n\nFerrer was upset by Viktor Troicki at the 2014 ATP Shenzhen Open. He continued to struggle in the Asian Swing by bowing out against Marcel Granollers in the 2014 Rakuten Japan Open Tennis Championships. He improved in the 2014 Shanghai Rolex Masters by defeating Martin Klizan and Andy Murray both coming from a set down. He lost to Novak Djokovic in the quarterfinals.\n\nFerrer made it to the final of the 2014 Erste Bank Open. There, he was defeated by Andy Murray. He made it to the quarterfinals of the 2014 BNP Paribas Masters.F before losing to Kei Nishikori. As a result, he failed to qualify for the 2014 ATP World Tour Finals, but later replaced Milos Raonic in the group phase when the latter had to withdraw due to an injury. He lost his match against Kei Nishikori in three sets and finished the year ranked no.10. In 2014 Ferrer won 2 time and Murray and 1 time Rafael Nadal.\n\nFerrer began his 2015 season at the Qatar ExxonMobil Open, where he was seeded fourth. There, he won his 22nd ATP World Tour title by defeating Tomáš Berdych in the final in straight sets. He was then scheduled to play at the Heineken Open in Auckland a week later, but withdrew due to fatigue. At the 2015 Australian Open, he made it to the fourth round, losing to Kei Nishikori.\n\nIn February, Ferrer won back-to-back titles at the 2015 Rio Open and 2015 Abierto Mexicano Telcel by defeating Fabio Fognini and Kei Nishikori, respectively.\n\nIn May, Ferrer made the semifinals of the Rome Masters, before being defeated by Novak Djokovic, matching his best performance at the tournament since 2012.\n\nNext, Ferrer competed at the 2015 French Open getting through the first two rounds without dropping a set. Then, Ferrer fought Simone Bolelli in the third round in a close five-setter, as well as defeating Marin Cilic in straight sets to reach his fourth French Open quarterfinal, before losing to Andy Murray in four sets.\n\nHowever, Ferrer lost his first match on grass at Queen's Club and withdrew from Wimbledon due to an elbow injury. He was eliminated early at the US Open.\n\nFerrer proceeded to win his 25th career title at the Kuala Lumpur Open, defeating compatriot Feliciano López. This marked the first ever all-Spanish final and Ferrer became the first ever Spaniard to win the title in Kuala Lumpur. Winning the title, he also maintained his 4–0 wins in finals in 2015.\n\nHe continued his winning streak by winning the Ersta Bank Open in Vienna, defeating Fabio Fognini, Gaël Monfils and Steve Johnson to bring his finals record in 2015 to 5–0.\n\nFerrer started his season in an exhibition at the Mubadala World Tennis Championships. Ferrer easily defeated Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and then lost to Rafael Nadal in a close three-setter. Ferrer then played Stan Wawrinka for the third place match. Ferrer lost the first set, but came back to win. Ferrer then arrived at the Qatar Open as the fourth seed and defending champion. Ferrer lost in the first round to Illya Marchenko, despite winning the first set. Ferrer then competed at Auckland as the top seed. Ferrer made it through to the semifinals after defeating qualifier Matthew Barton and Lukáš Rosol, but lost to Jack Sock despite winning the first set. Ferrer then played in the first Grand Slam of the year at the Australian Open. Ferrer defeated qualifier Peter Gojowczyk in the first round. In the second round, Ferrer defeated Lleyton Hewitt, who was playing his last career singles match. Ferrer then defeated 31st seed Steve Johnson and 10th seed John Isner. Ferrer reached the quarterfinals without having lost a set. In the quarterfinals, Ferrer lost to second seed and eventual finalist Andy Murray in four sets. Ferrer then arrived as second seed at the Argentina Open. Ferrer defeated wildcard Renzo Olivo in straight sets. Ferrer then defeated eighth seed Pablo Cuevas in three sets, before losing to Nicolás Almagro in straight sets in the semifinals. Ferrer then arrived at the Rio Open as the second seed. Ferrer defeated wildcard Nicolás Jarry in straight sets. Ferrer then came from a set down to defeat Albert Ramos-Viñolas. Ferrer's tournament came to an end in the quarterfinals when he lost to fifth seed Dominic Thiem in straight sets. Ferrer fell in the second round of the Mexican Open to Alexandr Dolgopolov and the second round of the Miami Open to Lucas Pouille to end his hard-court season.\n\nTo begin the clay-court season, Ferrer competed at the Madrid Open, defeating both Guillermo García-López and Denis Kudla in three sets, before falling to Tomáš Berdych in straight sets. He followed this up with another third-round appearance in the Rome Masters, this time losing to Pouille in straight sets. He began the French Open well, defeating Russia's Evgeny Donskoy. He went on to take down Juan Mónaco and Feliciano López before again falling to Berdych in straight sets. The grass-court season did not go nearly as well, bowing out in the first round of Halle to Andreas Seppi and the second round of Wimbledon to Nicolas Mahut.\n\nThe hard-court season began with the Olympics for Ferrer. Ferrer got through the first round against Denis Istomin, before falling to Donskoy in a tightly contested match. The Cincinnati Masters saw another first-round exit, this time at the hands of Julien Benneteau. Ferrer began the US Open by defeating Dolgopolov in the first round and Fabio Fognini in the second, before falling to an in-form Juan Martín del Potro in the third round, matching his performance of the previous two years at the tournament.\n\nAfter playing in two 250-level Pacific warm-up events, Ferrer competed in the 2017 Australian Open. He defeated two qualifiers before falling to compatriot Roberto Bautista Agut in the third round. This marked Ferrer's earliest exit at the tournament since 2010.\n\nIn July of the same year, Ferrer won his first tournament since October 2015 at the 2017 Swedish Open, defeating Ukrainian Alexandr Dolgopolov in the final. In the Cincinnati Masters, Ferrer defeated world No. 8 Dominic Thiem to reach the semifinals where he lost to Nick Kyrgios in two tiebreak sets.\n\nIn his final grand slam appearance, Ferrer was drawn to face compatriot and long-time rival Rafael Nadal in the opening round of the 2018 US Open. The match came to a premature end in the middle of the second set when Ferrer was forced to retire from the match with a calf injury.\n\nOn 15 August 2018, Hopman Cup organisers announced that Ferrer would represent Spain at the 2019 edition alongside Garbiñe Muguruza. It was his debut appearance at this tournament.\n\nOn 28 August 2018, Ferrer announced that the 2019 season would be his last in the tour. He also announced a preliminary list of 6 tournaments in which he wants to compete during his final season: the Hopman Cup, Auckland, Buenos Aires, Acapulco, Barcelona and Madrid.\n\nAt the Miami Masters, Ferrer battled from a set down to defeat world number 3 Alexander Zverev. This was Ferrer's first top 3 victory in almost 5 years.\n\nFerrer would cross the path of Alexander Zverev again at his final tournament, the Madrid Masters. From 4–1 up in the first set, he lost 6–4, 6–1, thus ending his career.\n\nFerrer announced that he would be the new director of the Barcelona Open. Albert Costa was the previous director of the tournament for 11 years.\n\nFerrer is noted for being one of the more dogged, agile, and fit players on the tour, and he has won many matches with consistent baseline play, great fitness, footspeed, and determination. Although he does not possess powerful groundstrokes like many of his contemporaries, his ability to keep the ball deep in play and move his opponents around the court has allowed him to be successful on all surfaces, especially on clay and hard courts. Although he is not a great net player, Ferrer's speed allows him to quickly cut off his opponents' shots and volley whilst they are off balance. Darren Cahill has said that Ferrer and Novak Djokovic are the two best returners in the men's game, even surpassing former dominant return specialists like Andre Agassi, who Cahill previously regarded as the best return specialist in the history of men's tennis. In 2007, Roger Federer regarded Ferrer as the best returner in the men's game.\nAt a personal level, Ferrer's reputation on the tour is that of a humble and shy person, rarely being involved in any controversy throughout his career. Calm and disciplined, he is admired for his tenacity and competitiveness on the court.\n\nDue to his speed, defensive prowess and lack of significant power, many have compared Ferrer's playing style to that of former US Open and Wimbledon champion Lleyton Hewitt.\n\nIn February 2016, Ferrer featured in a video by the ATP titled \"Ferrer Getting Better and Better\". It highlighted the longevity of Ferrer's career, his fighting spirit, consistency and the success he has been able to achieve even at the age of 36. It pointed out that, despite his long career, Ferrer had his second best season in 2015. Ferrer has the most match wins, the most tournament wins, and the most Grand Slam match wins of all players who have not won a Grand Slam. In the video, Ferrer also reveals that his tennis idol growing up was Sergi Bruguera.\n\nFerrer supports Valencia CF. He also enjoys playing basketball.\n\nOn 28 November 2015, Ferrer married his long-time girlfriend, Marta Tornel. The couple were introduced by Martin Solibakke and his wife. Tornel has a degree in optometry and works at her family's opticians in Benifaió. On 4 May 2018, Ferrer and Tornel announced the birth of a son, Leo, via social media.\n\nAn avid reader, Ferrer's favorite novelists are Arturo Perez-Reverte and Ildefonso Falcones. Ferrer's favorite book is Perez-Reverte's La Reina del Sur (Queen of the South). He keeps every book he reads. Of reading, Ferrer says, “I want to read books that will help me improve as a person and not just a tennis player.\" \n\nFerrer and Murray have faced each other 20 times (not including one occasion when there was a walkover in favour of Murray), with Ferrer trailing in their head-to-head, 6–14. Ferrer leads 4–1 on clay, while Murray leads on hard courts 12–2, and 1–0 on grass. They have met each other five times at Grand Slam tournament level, which Murray leads 4–1. The first was at 2011 Australian Open, which Murray won after losing the first set. They would meet again in 2012 Roland Garros, which Ferrer won losing the second set in a tie-breaker, and 2012 Wimbledon, with Murray scoring the win in a four set match. The next two matches occurred at the 2015 Roland Garros and the 2016 Australian Open, which Murray won, despite Ferrer managing to win a set off Murray in both matches. During the rivalry, they have only met three times at the Barclays ATP World Tour Finals, with Murray leading 2–1.\n\nFerrer and Verdasco have faced each other 21 times, with Ferrer leading in their head-to-head, 14–7. Ferrer leads 6–4 on clay and 8–2 on hard courts, while Verdasco leads 1–0 on grass. They have only had two meetings at a Grand Slam tournament level, with both matches going to Verdasco. The first took place 2007 Roland Garros, which Verdasco won after losing the first set (4–6, 7–6, 6–3, 6–3). The second meeting occurred at 2010 US Open, which Verdasco won in a five-setter match (5–7, 6–7, 6–3, 6–3, 7–6).\n\nFerrer and Lopez have faced each other 19 times, with Ferrer leading in their head-to-head, 11–8. Ferrer leads 7–3 on clay, while Lopez leads on hard courts 5–4. They have met each other three times at Grand Slam tournament level. The three meetings took place at Roland Garros, with Ferrer winning two and Lopez winning one. The pair first met each other in the semifinals of New Haven 2005, which Lopez won in three sets. Ever year after 2005 they competed against each other, with 2010 being the exception. No matches were played on that year.\n\nFerrer and Berdych have met 16 times, with both players sharing even wins against one another. Their head-to-head is 8–8. Ferrer trails against Berdych 2–4 on clay, whereas he leads 5–3 on hard courts, and is tied at 1–1 on grass. Their first meeting was at the Gstaad Open, with Ferrer winning. They have only met each other three times at Grand Slam tournament level, with Berdych leading 3–0. The first was in the 2014 Australian Open, which Berdych won after losing the third set. Their second meeting was at the 2016 Roland Garros, which Berdych won in three straight sets. Their third encounter was at 2017 Wimbledon Championship, where Berdych won again in straight sets.\n\nIn addition, they have faced each other twice at the Barclays ATP World Tour Finals and once in the Davis Cup, with Berdych leading 2–0 and Ferrer leading 1–0 respectively. Despite playing 16 matches against each other, they have only played in one tiebreaker against each other, this was at the 2016 Mutua Madrid Open which Berdych won 10–8 in the opening set. He went to win the match in straight sets. For multiple reasons, both Ferrer and Berdych have been considered the greatest players of all time to not have won a Grand Slam.\n\nFerrer and Wawrinka have met 14 times, with both player scoring equal wins against one another. Ferrer and Wawrinka are even on clay 3–3, while Ferrer trails against Wawrinka 3–4 on hard courts; Ferrer leads 1–0 on grass. Despite meeting on many occasions, they have never played against each other at Grand Slam level. There have been two encounters at Barclay ATP World Tour Finals in the years of 2013 and 2015, which Wawrinka won, and one encounter at the Davis Cup in 2010, with Ferrer beating Wawrinka in straight sets.\n\nFerrer and Nishikori have met 14 times, with Nishikori leading 10–4. Their first encounter was at 2008 US Open with Nishikori beating Ferrer in a five-set thriller. They next met again from 2011–2013 with Ferrer winning 3 times in straight sets and Nishikori winning only once in the Olympics at 2012 in three sets. However, throughout 2014, they met four times, with every match won by Nishikori. They first met in 2014 in the Miami Masters with Nishikori beating Ferrer in 3 tight-sets after saving 4 match points to progress to the QF. They next had an epic encounter at the Madrid Open with Nishikori beating Ferrer in another tight 3-setter to progress to the final of a Masters 1000. Their next 2 encounters were in the BNP Paribas Masters and the ATP World Tour Finals where Nishikori again defeated the Spaniard in 3 sets.\n\nIn 2015, Ferrer had a remarkable start to the season but was beaten in the Australian Open by Nishikori in straight sets. However, Ferrer ended his losing streak to Nishikori in the 2015 Abierto Mexicano Telcel, where he beat Nishikori in straight sets in the final. In Madrid, in the quarterfinals, Nishikori took revenge and beat him in straight sets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080299", "title": "ACT Policing", "text": "ACT Policing\n\nACT Policing is the portfolio of the Australian Federal Police (AFP) responsible for providing policing services to the Australian Capital Territory (ACT). The Australian Capital Territory Police was an independent police force responsible for policing the ACT until 19 October 1979, when it was merged with the Commonwealth Police to form the AFP.\n\nIn 1911, the ACT was proclaimed as the seat of Australian government, then the Federal Capital Territory under Commonwealth Government administration. Until 1927, the New South Wales Police patrolled what was mostly rural bushland, except for a small and slowly expanding capital city of Canberra. By the mid-1920s plans were well underway to move Parliament and several Commonwealth Government departments to Canberra and many public buildings were on the verge of being constructed. \n\nIn 1926, the Commonwealth Attorney-General determined that policing in the Territory should be performed by a local force. In 1927, the Federal Capital Territory Police was formed and staffed by 11 men, 10 former Commonwealth Peace Officers and the former NSW Police Sergeant, who had been in charge of the NSW Police contingent in Canberra. The force soon changed its name to the Commonwealth Police (Australian Capital Territory), until 1957 when it formally adopted the name, Australian Capital Territory Police Force.\n\nOn 19 October 1979, as a result of a Commonwealth Government restructure of Australian national policing services, the ACT Police Force amalgamated with the Commonwealth Police to form the Australian Federal Police (AFP). The AFP assumed responsibility for policing the ACT, retaining the role to this day, notable as the ACT attained a degree of self-government in 1989. ACT Policing currently consists of around 923 people of which just over 690 are sworn police.\n\nACT Policing consists of five police stations (patrols) located in the Canberra town centres of Belconnen, City (Civic), Woden, Tuggeranong and Gungahlin Joint Emergency Service Centre. Police Constables based at these stations provide general duties community policing for the ACT. Uniformed traffic operations members work from the Traffic Operations Centre in Belconnen and primarily focus on road safety and traffic law enforcement within the ACT.\n\nThe Winchester Police Centre, Benjamin Way, Belconnen, is the ACT Policing Headquarters. The Complex houses ACT Policing's Executive, administrative and support sections and elements of the Criminal Investigations area (CI).\n\nThe complex is named in memory of the former Assistant Commissioner Colin Winchester APM, the head of the then ACT Region (ACT Policing) of the AFP. Assistant Commissioner Winchester was murdered outside his house in early 1989.\n\nCriminal Investigations (CI) provides a detective function for the ACT, and is located at each of the main police stations (being Tuggeranong, Woden, Belconnen and City) and the Winchester Police Centre.\n\nSpecialist Response Group (SRG) provide a full-time tactical response capability in addition to search and rescue, public order management (riot control), police dogs and bomb response functions.\n\nAs distinct from the majority of AFP Members engaged in duties outside of ACT Policing, who under AFP Commissioner's Order 1 (Administration), are titled Federal Agents, police Members of ACT Policing (and some other AFP portfolios) adopt traditional ranks:\n\nThose who have sufficient experience and have demonstrated the appropriate competencies are designated as a \"Detective\" whilst performing investigative duties in ACT Policing. Members with a Detective designation who assume other roles do not use the title when not attached to investigative or Criminal Investigations (CI) function.\n\nThe title 'Chief Officer' was first used by Lieutenant Colonel Harold Edward Jones from 1927 until his retirement in 1943. During his tenure, Jones also held the positions of Director of the Commonwealth Investigation Bureau and the Superintendent of the Peace Officer Guard. Jones' successor, Robert Reid, was appointed solely to head the ACT Police Force (then titled Commonwealth Police (ACT)). Subsequent commanders of the ACT Police Force used the title Commissioner until the force was amalgamated with the Commonwealth Police in 1979 to form the AFP. \n\nDuring Assistant Commissioner Bates' tenure, at the time of ACT self-government commencement in 1989, the title Chief Police Officer was resumed to denote the head of ACT Policing. Whilst remaining within the AFP command structure, the CPO also became accountable to the ACT Government for policing outcomes in the ACT.\n\nIn 2001, the position and title of Deputy Chief Police Officer was created. The first incumbent, between 2001 and 2002, was Assistant Commissioner Denis McDermott APM, followed by Assistant Commissioner Andrew Hughes APM between 2002 and 2003. Assistant Commissioner Hughes performed the duties of the Chief Police Officer for most of the period between the death of Assistant Commissioner Fagan APM and the appointment of Assistant Commissioner Phelan APM in 2007. Since 2003, the title of Deputy Chief Police Officer has been used by both Commander rank deputies of the ACT Policing Executive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080300", "title": "Bruce Fairchild Barton", "text": "Bruce Fairchild Barton\n\nBruce Fairchild Barton (August 5, 1886 – July 5, 1967) was an American author, advertising executive, and politician. He served in the U.S. Congress from 1937 to 1940 as a Republican from New York.\n\nBorn in Robbins, Tennessee in 1886, Barton was the son of a Congregational clergyman and grew up in various places throughout the U.S., including the metro Chicago area. Barton was raised in Oak Park, Illinois (located ten miles away by railroads from downtown Chicago).\n\nBruce Barton's father, William E. Barton, was a prolific writer and a devout Christian pastor serving the First Congregational Church for over 20 years. Barton's mother, Esther Treat Bushnell, was an elementary school teacher who was descended from a number of colonial Connecticut leaders including Francis Bushnell, Robert Treat, and John Davenport. Barton's siblings were Charles William Barton (b. 1887), Helen (b. 1889), Robert Shawmut Barton (b. 1894). Barton's parents also took in a young abandoned mulatto boy to care for in the Barton household by the name of Webster Betty, as they also did for Rebecca, a young African-American girl whose mother asked Barton's parents to take care of her.\n\nJournalism appealed to Barton even as a child and he sold newspapers in his free time when he was only nine. Later on during his teenage years, he served as the editor for his high school newspaper, and became a reporter for a local newspaper called the Oak Park Weekly. Barton also helped run his uncle's maple syrup business, which became successful due to his contributions.\n\nBarton first enrolled in Berea College (where his father attended college) during 1903 and later transferred to Amherst College in Massachusetts, where he graduated in 1907.\n\nBarton worked as a publicist and magazine editor before co-founding the Barton, Durstine & Osborn (BDO) advertising agency in 1919. Nine years later the agency merged with the George Batten agency to become Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn (BBDO). Barton replaced Roy S. Durstein as president of BBDO during 1939 and then headed the BBDO agency until 1961, all while helping his business partners and employees toward establishing Madison Avenue in New York City as the Mecca for the advertising industry, advancing institutional advertising for American corporations, and developing BBDO into one of the major creative advertising firms operating in the United States.\n\nAmong other famous BBDO campaigns, Barton created the character of Betty Crocker. He is also credited with naming General Motors and General Electric (and creating an early design of the circular GE corporate logo and catch phrase). Barton was also a member of the Peabody Awards Board of Jurors from 1940 to 1942.\n\nInitially supporting progressive political policies as a young man, Barton later became an active supporter of the Republican Party in 1919, and he later served as an advisor for both the Republican Party and several Republican presidential candidates from the time of Calvin Coolidge during the 1920s to that of Dwight Eisenhower during the 1950s. As a staunch opponent of U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt and the New Deal, Barton offered his public relations services to many Republican candidates over the years. Barton won a special election to fill the unexpired term of U.S. Representative Democrat Theodore A. Peyser, who died on August 8, 1937. Barton eventually served two terms (1937–1941) in the U.S. House of Representatives, representing the Manhattan house district and he later ran an unsuccessful 1940 campaign for election as U.S. Senator from New York.\n\nAs the author of many bestselling guidebooks, Barton also wrote literally hundreds of popular magazines articles and syndicated newspaper columns, offering his readers advice and inspiration for attaining Barton's own idealization of the American Dream, based largely upon Barton's meshing of his own life as a \"small town boy\" and sectarian Christian beliefs in with his admiration of certain American business and industry leaders (\"Service\").\n\nBarton had projected many Christian Biblical themes throughout his works completed within his varied writing career, due in part to his own strong religious convictions. One historian writes: \"Barton believed incurably in material progress, in self-improvement, in individualism, and in the Judeo-Christian ethic, and none of the profound crises through which his generation lived appreciably changed the tenor of his writings or their capacity to reflect what masses of Americans, optimists in the progressive tradition, apparently continued to want to hear.\"\n\nBarton's most famous book was, \"The Man Nobody Knows\" (1925), a \"boosterish melding of religion with business\" that coupled with \"new communication and advertising media\", provided the \"cultural shift that encouraged the public display of spiritual allegiances that once belonged to the realm of private life\", while amplifying the widely perceived public adoration of American business during the 1920s. In this book, Barton envisions Jesus as if he were alive as a man's man in the present day of the 1920s while criticizing the overly meek Jesus that people were used to during that time. Barton also depicts Jesus as a \"strong magnetic\" executive businessman, similar to himself.\n\nIn the 1925 edition of \"The Man Nobody Knows\" Barton incorporated controversial chapter titles leading into the exploration of Barton's Jesus-as-businessman themes, such as calling Jesus a modern \"Executive\", postulating that Jesus communicated effectively by \"His Advertisements\", and hailing Jesus as \"The Founder of Modern Business\" among others. In the much later 1956 edition of \"The Man Nobody Knows\", editors at Bobbs-Merrill \"heavily amended\" Barton's text with his permission, cutting out the references to business and advertising. along with excerpts featuring popular celebrities of the 1920s, such as Henry Ford, George Perkins, and Jim Jeffries.\n\nAccording to historian Otis Pease, through his careers in advertising, popular writing and Republican activism:\n\nPease disagrees with this hostile portrayal and instead argues that Barton was a leader of the liberal wing of the Republican Party, urging that it broaden its appeal to reach the working man in the average voter. He helped secure the Republican nomination for liberal Wendell Willkie in 1940. His book on Jesus, says Pease, was silly when it said that Jesus was at heart and advertising expert and a sales executive. However, Pease argues, the book was:\n\nPublic attention was called to a sexual affair that Barton was secretly having from 1928 to 1932 with BBDO employee Frances Wagner King. King had originally presented herself to Barton and others at BBDO as an unmarried woman. Her husband later threatened to sue Barton for alienation of affection. Barton paid the Kings $25,000 in hush money.\n\nLater, during a 1932 appointment with her attorney, Mrs. King informed Barton that she was suing him for slander and seeking damages of $250,000 based on an unfavorable work reference he had provided to a potential employer of King.\n\nMrs. King also informed Barton she was working on a novel about an advertising man based loosely on Barton's own private and public life, but that she would not publish her work and would drop her slander lawsuit if Barton would settle the matter with a payment of $50,000 to King.\n\nThe newspapers reported about the Barton and King sexual affair (and other similar King allegations of impropriety by Barton) after learning of Barton's arrest under a civil order from Mrs. King's slander suit.\n\nBarton filed a blackmail criminal charge against Mrs. King on April 17, 1933, and her criminal trial ran from July 18 to August 2, 1933. On August 2, 1933, a jury found Frances Wagner King guilty of blackmail. After her serving two years of her original sentence, an appeal court reduced Mrs. King's sentence to three to six years.\n\nThe attorney handling Mrs. King's slander suit against Barton had paid to typeset King's novel, arranged to have Barton arrested, and offered to rescind the slander lawsuit against Barton upon a settlement paid to King. King's attorney was later disbarred in 1936.\n\nBruce Barton died at his home at 117 East 55th Street in New York City in 1967.\n\nIn 1925, Barton wrote a letter to 24 rich men who all replied with at least $1,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080301", "title": "Nico Minoru", "text": "Nico Minoru\n\nNico Minoru (briefly known as Sister Grimm), is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created in 2003 by writer Brian K. Vaughan and artist Adrian Alphona, the character debuted in \"Runaways\" vol. 1 #1 (July 2003). Like every member of the original Runaways, Nico is the daughter of the super-powered villains calling themselves \"the Pride\"; in her case, she is the daughter of dark wizards. Upon finding out, Nico runs away with the rest of the runaways but later discovers that she inherited her parents' magical aptitude. Whenever Nico bleeds, a powerful staff emerges from her chest, called the Staff of One, allowing Nico to bend magic.\n\nAfter the Runaways are betrayed by one of their own in volume one, Nico reluctantly becomes the de facto leader of her unofficial and nameless superhero team, making her one of the few Japanese-American superheroine team leaders. Nico's trademark is her elaborate and ornate Gothic wardrobe. Nico is a sorceress like her parents and great-grandmother before her and can cast nearly any spell imaginable with her staff. Nico uses her talents to make up for her parents' villainous actions and to prevent anyone from assuming the Pride's place at the top of Los Angeles organized crime.\n\nIn the Marvel Universe, she was featured in \"Avengers Arena\" and its sequel, \"Avengers Undercover\", where it follows the survivors of the thirty day-long deathmatch in MurderWorld. Nico is traumatized by those events and temporarily walked away from the Runaways. She later joined Marvel's first all-female Avengers team, \"A-Force\".\n\nNico's Staff of One responds to verbal commands, but can only respond to any given spell once. If she attempts to cast the same spell twice, the results have unforeseen consequences. To summon the Staff itself, Nico must bleed—as all magic comes with a cost. After working with the Witchbreaker, Nico develops the ability to cast spells without the Staff and upgrades her own abilities. In the wake of her resurrection in Murderworld, Nico jumps up to another power level and even receives a magical arm replacement that can channel supernatural energies more powerful than the Staff. By the relaunch of \"Runaways\" volume five, Nico's Staff and powers are reverted to its original condition and her magical arm replaced with a normal arm for reasons unknown yet.\n\nNico Minoru was portrayed by Lyrica Okano in the Hulu television series \"Runaways\" which is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.\n\nNico Minoru first appeared in \"Runaways\" # 1 (July 2003) and was created by Brian K. Vaughan and Adrian Alphona.\n\nIn Brian K. Vaughan's original pitch for the series, Nico was called Rachel Messina. Her parents were still magicians, but posed as wealthy antique dealers; this cover story was ultimately used for Gert's time travelling parents. Nico's source of power was not originally going to be her mother's Staff, but Robert Minoru's spellbook.\n\nNico Minoru appeared in \"Avengers Arena\", a new series by Dennis Hopeless and Kev Walker, as well as its sequel, \"Avengers Undercover\".\n\nNico appears as one of the main characters in \"A-Force\", an all-female Avengers spin-off launched by G. Willow Wilson, Marguerite Bennett, and Jorge Molina during Marvel's \"Secret Wars\" crossover.\n\nEvery year, Nico's parents join five other couples in a charity event; one year, Nico and the other kids spy on their parents. Nico is shocked to discover her father speaking an enchantment, and after witnessing the murder of an innocent girl by their parents (\"the Pride\"), Nico joins the others in their massive ransack to run away from their parents. While on the run, Nico encounters her parents. Her mother, wielding a large staff with a ball at the end (\"the Staff of One\"), reveals that she and Nico's father are dark wizards; she then attempts to jam the Staff into Nico's chest. Nico's body absorbs it. After she is later cut by Dale Yorkes' Samurai battle-axe, the Staff re-emerges from her chest, which prompts Nico to use the phrase \"Freeze\", and freeze Stacey Yorkes. It is revealed that Nico is a witch, and that the Staff only emerges when she bleeds. Sometime after running off, Nico takes on the name Sister Grimm to escape the name her parents gave her, but drops it after a while. After team leader Alex outs himself as the mole and is defeated along with the Pride, Nico is accepted as the group's leader.\n\nIn 2007, the magic-related crossover event \"Mystic Arcana\" fills the gap between \"Runaways\" (volume 1) #17 and #18, during Nico's brief time at Father Flanagan's Home for Unwanted Goth Kids. The story begins with Nico dressed in a Japanese school girl's outfit, stating that it's perhaps time to let go of the goth trend. She is soon talked into going to a nightclub with her friends, where she meets her parents' old rival Marie Laveau; Laveau seeks revenge on Nico's parents for stealing the Black Mirror, one of the four Cornerstones of Creation. After Laveau explains that she needs Nico's blood to activate the Black Mirror, Nico gives Leveau her blood, while also purging out the Staff of One. The two fight, and Nico easily wins. Nico attempts to bring back Alex Wilder using the Mirror, however the spell fails, the Mirror shatters and the last page of the Darkhold is revealed behind the glass. Laveau takes it and flees, while Nico accepts her place as an outcast with the Runaways.\n\nArtist Dave Sexton revealed Nico was one of the four magic characters chosen for the story arc because each character relates to some elemental themes: Magik represents air and logic, the Black Knight represents the Earth and tools, the Scarlet Witch represents water and emotions while Nico represented fire and wands. As Nico must deliver blood in order to produce her Staff, fire and sacrifice prove to be very similar to Tarot's Minor Arcana suit of \"wands\". Although C.B. Cebulski wrote the \"Sister Grimm\" portion of Mystic Arcana, \"Runaways\"-creator Brian K. Vaughan lent some assistance.\n\nAfter being warned of a future threat named Victor Mancha, Nico and the Runaways find and abduct Victor to question him. After Victor's mother is murdered and father, Ultron, is destroyed, Nico invites Victor to become a part of the team, much to the anger of some members, notably Chase. Nico reassures them that she is willing to \"rip [Victor's] damn heart out\" if necessary. After Chase ties Nico up before he attempts to sacrifice himself to the Gibborim, Nico interprets it as a cry for help and leads the Runaways to intervene to stop Chase's self-sacrifice. The Gibborim instead attempt to take Nico, revealing that Nico's soul is innocent, thus, suitable for the Gibborim's consumption. Victor rescues Nico and the two form a relationship. After defeating the Gibborim, Victor asks Nico what she's willing to do if Chase does something like this again; Nico responds by saying she is willing to \"rip [Chase's] damn heart out\" if necessary. After returning to their lair beneath the La Brea Tar Pits, Xavin realizes she had publicly exposed their location, drawing the attention of Iron Man and S.H.I.E.L.D. Nico, stepping into her role as a leader, leads the Runaways in a cross-country escape from Iron Man and S.H.I.E.L.D.\n\nAfter escaping the authorities, the Runaways head to New York where Nico anxiously makes a deal with the Kingpin. In a twisted turn of events, the Runaways end up time-displaced in 1907 New York, where Nico is kidnapped and brought to a woman named \"the Witchbreaker\". The Witchbreaker claims she is Nico's great-grandmother, and states she will teach Nico how to withstand more pain and, therefore, wield more magic with better proficiency. She wields a weapon similar to the Staff of One, with more adornments. When reunited with her comrades, a significant development to Nico's abilities is evident, where she is freely able to float, displays more proficiency and confidence in casting spells and able to use a spell with an effect more complicated than most of her others thus far. It is revealed that Nico had obtained the Witchbreaker's Staff. Little more information is given to how Nico and her ancestor's meeting had ended, though the Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe's more recent edition says that Nico had \"escaped\" her. During this period, Victor falls in love with another girl, corrupting his relationship with Nico.\n\nDuring the global shape-shifting alien invasion by the Skrulls, Nico and the other Runaways briefly remain in New York after returning from 1907, trusting that \"hiding in plain sight\" would be sufficient to conceal their own identities and that it would be best if they showed Klara around her city in the future before they returned to Los Angeles. However, to their shock, an armada of Skrull ships attack New York and its civilians. Xavin, trying to fool the invaders into thinking she intends to help them, uses a force field to knock out the Runaways; Nico and Victor are still conscious, however, and they attack Xavin, accusing her of being a traitor. Xavin reveals that she is trying to protect them and convinces them that the Skrulls are too dangerous for them to fight and pleading with them to flee to the Leapfrog. The Runaways eventually unite with the Young Avengers to assist against the invading Skrulls. Nico insists on leading her team to help the Young Avengers continue the fight against the Skrulls, refusing to \"run away.\" However, Wiccan urges her to leave, claiming that if the Young Avengers lose, they will need the Runaways to save them.\n\nNico uses a spell (\"scatter\") to scatter a group of invading Majesdanians all over the planet. The spell, however, had unwanted side-effects: it emotionally scatters the Runaways. Victor realizes this in time, and Nico spearheads a massive escape from the returning Majesdanians. A short time later, the Runaways realize that having obeyed Nico, they broke the enchantment. Regardless, Xavin shapeshifts into Karolina and leaves Earth, much to the other Runaways' great grief.\n\nLater on, Nico uses the spell \"Zombie Not\" to turn an army of zombies back to humans; the spell, backfiring, turns the zombies into an actual \"zombie knot\", thus creating a one large zombie. The Runaways deduce that after the Witchbreaker tortured and trained Nico, Nico's magical abilities have been greatly augmented. Val Rhymin's magician informs Nico that the Staff of One carries tremendous magical ability and Nico, being young, should not use it. The magician steals the Staff from her, only to be killed after the Staff defends itself. A silent Nico takes her Staff back, and warns the other Runaways not to touch it.\n\nAt the 2009 Emerald City ComiCon, writer Brian Bendis implied that Nico might be one of the magicians sought by former Sorcerer Supreme Doctor Strange, seeing as the search \"is not done yet.\" Although the title went to Brother Voodoo, her image appeared as one of the many candidates the Eye of Agamotto considered to assume the role of the new Sorcerer Supreme.\n\nNico also makes a non-speaking cameo in \"Strange\" #4 (February 2010) as one of the powerful mages Dr. Strange asks to stop using their powers for an hour.\n\nAs part of the \"Marvel NOW!\" event in the pages of \"Avengers Arena\", Nico is abducted by the villain Arcade and placed on a special island version of Murderworld. The Staff of One has its power drastically reduced for an unexplained reason, preventing her not only from being able to act out against Arcade or the island, but also requiring \"dozens of spells\" just to successfully grow food to eat. After mounting a frontal attack on Apex and Juston Seyfert's Sentinel, Nico loses the Staff of One when she is dismembered by Chase (now in possession of the Darkhawk armor) and thrown off a cliff. She then crawls to the Staff of One and tries to cast the spell \"help\", but bleeds out before the Staff can act. The Staff then resurrects her, using her massive blood loss as a sacrifice to grant her enough power to disarm Deathlocket, destroy the Darkhawk armor, and defeat Apex by trapping her underground. Chase returns to his normal self and then helps Nico and Reptil fight a possessed Cullen. In the ensuing battle, Nara is killed returning Cullen to human form and Anachronism goes wild. Reptil asks Nico and Chase for help breaking up the fight, but Nico insists she and Chase stay out of it. At Nico's command, Chase then turns into Darkhawk and sucker-punches Reptil as part of some secret plan that he and Nico devised. Chase showed regret at having to attack Reptil. When Chase refused to let Cammi stop Nico, she broke his arm and leg, taking the Darkhawk amulet for herself in order to stop Nico from killing everyone. Cammi gives Chase the amulet again when Apex unleashes bugs, sentient typhoon, and weaponized sand to attack the remaining teens on Murderworld. Soon after, Deathlocket stops the fight by killing Apex, and everyone is able to escape Murderworld and disperse.\n\nOnce news broke about Arcade's kidnappings, Nico and the other Murder World Survivors became infamous. Nico has dyed her hair slightly red and still sports the witch arm she gained in the fight with Apex. She also has the power to teleport and create floating and cloaking spells. To the other Runaways' horror, she and Chase fight during one of Chase's interviews on the talk show, criticizing Chase for breaking their pact of silence, which was made moot when Arcade released video. She then teleported Chase away from the set. However, when Anachronism reveals Bloodstone's gone missing, all the survivors team up to head to Bagalia to find him. On their way in, Nico berates Chase for saying they're \"family,\" pointing out that he only came with them because she made him. Once they find Bloodstone, he reveals that he enjoys life among the villains, and the others, minus Cammi, start to enjoy it as well. Nico tries to convince Bloodstone to come back with them, but he refuses. Daimon Hellstrom has been helping Cullen control his monster and he offers to help Nico with her upgraded powers too. When Cammi tries to tell the others to leave, Bloodstone instead has Hellstrom teleport the group to Arcade's latest party so they can confront him. Hazmat uses this opportunity to kill Arcade. Baron Zemo then tell them they have two choices, join him or be returned to the surface to be punished by S.H.I.E.L.D.. Nico comes up with a third option, pretend to join Zemo and destroy his organization from the inside. She works closely with Hellstrom to strengthen her magical powers. Eventually they unwittingly feed to Avengers information planted by Zemo in order to trap the Avengers in Bagalia and then steal S.H.I.E.L.D.'s helicarrier. Cammi stops Zemo and reveals Arcade is alive. Since only a body double was killed, S.H.I.E.L.D. drops any charges against the teens. She is last seen enjoying some vacation time on a lake with the rest of the group in the final issue of the series.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Wars\" storyline, A-Force, the defenders of the matriarchal Battleworld nation of Arcadia, responds to a megalodon attack while on routine patrol. During the attack, America Chavez throws the shark across the Shield, the wall that separates their borders, thus breaking the laws of Emperor Doom and is subsequently arrested by Doom's enforcers, the Thor Corps. Despite appeals from She-Hulk, the baroness of Arcadia, Chavez is sentenced to spend the rest of her life on the wall. In response, She-Hulk tasks the Sub-Mariners - Namor, Namorita, and Namora - to find the source of the megalodon attack. Meanwhile, Nico, lamenting the loss of Chavez, comes across a mysterious figure that fell out of the sky. The Sub-Mariners discover a strange portal in the ocean's depths but it implodes as they draw near. Later, at the behest of Loki, Minoru introduces her new friend to She-Hulk. When Medusa accuses the stranger, a sentient pocket universe, of creating the portal, a sentinel falls from another portal and attacks the team. During the fight, the newcomer saves Dazzler and convinces She-Hulk that she is not the cause. After destroying the sentinel, She-Hulk decides to travel through the still open portal and investigate the source herself. She-Hulk arrives in a post-apocalyptic Manhattan and after a brief encounter with more sentinels, she is chased back to Arcadia by the Thor Corps. The Thor Corps follow in pursuit, but Medusa manages to repel them back into the portal and is killed in the process. When the Thor Corps return, She-Hulk alerts the citizens of Arcadia that there is a traitor in their midst that is spreading discontent and vows to bring them to justice as she and other A-Forcers go into hiding inside the newcomer. The newcomer smuggles A-Force outside the city. There, She-Hulk realizes that the portals' energy is of Asgardian origin and they deduce that the traitor is Loki. With A-Force outlawed, Loki is set to be crowned the new baroness of Arcadia but is preemptively attacked by A-Force. After Loki is defeated, she releases a final blast of energy that breaches the Shield thus allowing the zombie horde on the other side to enter. As the horde approaches, She-Hulk rallies A-Force, the Thor Corps and other heroes in defense of Arcadia. During the fight, the zombies begin to overwhelm the city but the newcomer – now named Singularity – absorbs the entire horde, sacrificing herself in the process. In the aftermath of the battle, the Thor Corps arrests Loki as A-Force begins reconstruction of Arcadia. Meanwhile, She-Hulk comforts Minoru, who is still mourning the loss of her friends, telling her that she believes Singularity lives on.\n\nFollowing the \"Secret Wars\" storyline, Singularity awakes in the primary Earth-616 universe and quickly spots Carol Danvers but Danvers does not recognize her. Unbeknownst to Singularity, she is being pursued by a similar being named Antimatter. While Danvers confronts Antimatter, Singularity flees to New York City. With Antimatter still in pursuit, Singularity locates She-Hulk, who does not remember her either, and asks for help. As the pair fight Antimatter, Medusa arrives with reinforcements and takes Singularity into custody. After Antimatter kills one of Medusa's soldiers, she releases Singularity and teleports Antimatter to the moon. Realizing that physical attacks are having little effect on Antimatter, Singularity transports She-Hulk, Medusa and herself to Japan to seek the help of Minoru. When Antimatter returns, Minoru casts a spell that causes him to be temporarily unmade. The spell buys the women some time during which Danvers suggests that Antimatter maybe susceptible to intense levels of light particles. They then travel to Miami to recruit Dazzler just as Antimatter remerges. Dazzler hits Antimatter with everything she has to no avail but it gives Danvers time to activate a containment device that she designed. When Antimatter overloads the device, Singularity has Minoru remove Antimatter's tracking ability and transports the team to The Peak. As Antimatter eventually reaches The Peak, She-Hulk orders Singularity to stay behind while the rest of the team leaves to parley with Antimatter. After talks fail, Antimatter fatally wounds Dazzler and in turn She-Hulk decapitates Antimatter. Angered by Dazzler's death, Singularity leaves to confront a recovered Antimatter one-on-one. As Singularity fights Antimatter, Dr. Tempest Bell, The Peak's lead scientist, develops a bomb capable of destroying Antimatter but denoting it will also kill Singularity. She-Hulk, Minoru and Danvers go to reinforce Singularity, while Medusa places the bomb inside Antimatter. Just as the bomb explodes, a revived Dazzler arrives with a dimensional teleporter and whisks Singularity away from the blast. With Antimatter destroyed, the team celebrates at a diner when Singularity senses a disturbance as remnants of Antimatter tear open portals to other worlds. In Astoria, Oregon, A-Force tracks a dragon from Battleworld named Countess and discover that she is being pursued by an alternate version of Dazzler that belonged to the Thor Corps. A-Force joins Dazzler Thor in combat which causes Countess to retreat. As the heroes wait for Countess's return, Dazzler confides to Dazzler Thor that she has been infected by the Terrigen Mist and is dying. When Countess arrives, she takes control of Minoru who then incapacitates the team. She-Hulk, Medusa, Dazzler, Dazzler Thor, and Danvers awake in a jail cell in Astoria to discover that their powers are gone and the populace under the control of the Countess. After She-Hulk taunts the Countess, she has Minoru turn She-Hulk against the others. As the fight with She-Hulk takes the team away from the city and their powers return, the Countess has Minoru turn their feet into cement shoes and drag them under water. As the team is about to drown, Minoru commands them to breathe. Once out of the water, She-Hulk sends half the team to distract Countess, while the others rescue Minoru. After being rescued, Minoru reveals the true nature of Countess' powers and returns with Dazzler and Dazzler Thor to confront Countess. Minoru convinces Countess to have a change of heart as Dazzler Thor succumbs to the compounded effects that the Terrigen Mist are having on her otherworldly system. After Dazzler Thor's body vanishes, Dazzler warns her teammates that she may suffer a similar fate.\n\nDuring the \"Civil War II\" storyline, after She-Hulk is gravely wounded in a battle with Thanos, Danvers tells Minoru that the Inhuman Ulysses had a vision of her killing a woman named Alice. Refusing to be arrested for a crime that she has yet to commit, Minoru flees to a safehouse in Ouray, Colorado. Unbeknownst to Minoru, the town is under attack from a swarm of giant bugs. Minoru encounters Elsa Bloodstone. Bloodstone informs Minoru that the attack is the result of an infection that is turning the populace into insects and takes her to meet Janine, whose daughter Alice has gone missing during the commotion. Meanwhile, Danvers and Medusa race to find Minoru before Dazzler and Singularity, who disagree with their methods. Danvers and Medusa find Minoru and Bloodstone just before Dazzler and Singularity arrive. After a brief confrontation, they agree to split into two teams: one to find Alice and the other to protect the civilians. While searching for Alice in an abandoned mine, Danvers, Minoru and Bloodstone are attacked by a giant bug. The bug incapacitates Danvers and Bloodstone before telepathically communicating to Minoru that she is Alice and has been inadvertently infecting the townspeople after her transformation. Alice tells Minoru that killing her is the only way to save the people. When Minoru refuses, an infected Bloodstone threatens to kill Danvers. Medusa, Singularity, and an infected Dazzler are overrun by bugs and regroup with the others just as Bloodstone infects Danvers. After Dazzler infects Medusa, Minoru casts a spell to transform Alice back into a human but it does not cure the rest of the populace. Alice explains that she must be killed and Minoru reluctantly casts a death spell on Alice which transforms the infected back into humans. Alice then remerges in her final form and tells A-Force that she is no longer a threat as she now has greater control of her powers. When the commotion is over, Danvers and Minoru continue to disagree over each other's actions but agree to visit She-Hulk together in the hospital.\n\nNico, being a witch, uses magic as her weapon. In the early issues, her sole weapon had been the Staff of One, an ancient magical staff that can cast any spell imaginable. The Staff, however, comes with two limitations; first, and more importantly, Nico cannot cast the same spell twice, or the spell will misfire and a random effect will occur; for example, the second time she tried to cast \"Freeze,\" she produced pelicans, and the second time she attempted to cast a \"Fumigation\" spell, the staff teleported Nico and Karolina miles in the Los Angeles desert. The second limitation of the Staff of One is that it cannot be used to bring people back from the dead. Nico discovered this limitation when she tried to resurrect Alex Wilder, and explained why she could not magically revive the deceased future version of Gertrude Yorkes. Tina Minoru, the Staff's owner previous to Nico, mentions that the Staff even made Dormammu (a demonic entity with vast magical power far surpassing even that of the Sorcerer Supreme) tremble and that it gave the wielder \"[a]ll the power of the past, present and future\" and would make its wielder \"unstoppable.\" Tina is also able to do spells without saying them, as evident when she turns herself, Robert Minoru, and the Steins into their villain costumes. In \"\", Nico successfully cast a tunneling spell using a Latin phrase supplied to her by the Vision, even without knowing its meaning.\n\nOnly Nico can summon the Staff, but initially, anyone could cast spells with it. When not in use the Staff retreats into her body, which Nico describes as \"feel[ing] like I have something in my eye, but instead of my eye, it's...it's my soul.\" To summon the Staff, Nico sheds blood and automatically recites \"When blood is shed, let the Staff of One emerge.\" Early in volume one, Nico would cut herself to release the Staff, often using Chase's switchblade. As the series progressed, Nico found alternative ways to make herself bleed, including brushing her gums for extended periods of time and having Gert's \"Deinonychus\" Old Lace bite her arm; during her monthly menstrual cycle, Nico does not need to cut herself to evoke the Staff. The Staff always emerges from the center of her chest, and passes through any clothing she is wearing without damaging it or Nico. However the Staff will damage anyone or anything directly in its way when ejected from Nico's body. For example, the Staff emerged after the vampire Topher began to drain Nico's blood and pierced directly through the center of his chest. Nico cannot truly control what kind of effect her spells will have: she must conjure up painful memories to cast a spell, as well as imagining anything that makes her feel guilty. In the \"Mystic Arcana\" series, Nico is said to have far greater magical potential than even she had realized, as the last living heir to the Clan Minoru; Nico overwhelms Marie LaVeau in a matter of moments, despite all of Marie's magical experience and power, and discovers that the roots of her family legacy are deeper than even she imagined, with her being the only person alive capable of unlocking the Black Mirror. Nico is told that she has stepped onto the Dark Path and that she and Marie shall meet again, \"for all those who step onto the Dark Path are destined to travel that road together.\" On occasion, however, she has cast spells without resorting to the Staff, such as creating an image of Alex Wilder in the palm of her hand. Time and space are also crucial limitations to the power of the Staff: all spells shown cast by it only have a temporary effect, and the effects of these spells weaken as the distance between Nico and the target increases.\n\nIn \"Runaways\" vol. 2 #17, it is revealed that if Nico steps into the path of the ashes of dead wizards, her powers will not work at all.\n\nNico's time with the Witchbreaker has granted her a newer version of the Staff of One, similar to the original but with more adornments and a larger ring (the ball on the original Staff is also removed). Nico can now wield its powers and cast spells with greater proficiency than before, even floating under her own powers instead of using the Staff, as Nico had already cast a variety of levitation enchantments before. Furthermore, Victor Mancha also questions how Nico is floating, apparently indicating that this was indeed not of the Staff's own magic. Nico can now cast a variety of spells without using her Staff, bringing her closer to her parents' abilities. It is unknown where the Staff of One is now, though her new staff, regardless of its precise origins, is summoned in exactly the same method as the former.\n\nMore recently, Nico's Staff has displayed an ability to defend itself. The Staff now reacts violently toward anyone other than Nico who attempts to use it, turning into a demon or dragon and devouring that individual.\n\nLater in \"Daken: Dark Wolverine\" she shows that her spells can be extremely detailed when she freezes Daken with \"Freeze to the exact temperature and aesthetic appearance of a cheap Popsicle from a 7/11\" though she still has the \"One spell\" rule.\n\nAfter her murder by Apex and subsequent resurrection, Nico once again received a new Staff of One with a new design up top. This staff also was shorter and did not extend to the ground, could be touched by anyone (as Apex proved), and could be summoned back to Nico upon command. Nico was also granted a new left arm where she could perform spells without holding the Staff of One. According to the resurrected Alex, the left arm was clearly a more powerful conduit of dark magic than even the Staff of One. This upgrade increased her dark powers and allowed her to enter a blind rage where her magic is more powerful, as she runs purely on instinct.\n\nNico is Japanese American. She is also shown to be a very emotional person. She expresses feelings for Alex Wilder during their original getaway, but is hesitant to start a romance. After Alex saves her from a vampire attack, sometime later she begins to date him. This pattern of seeking physical or romantic comfort with people during stressful or intense situations follows Nico throughout the remainder of the series. Despite this, Nico proves her loyalty to the Runaways when Alex betrays the group and offers her a seat in the new world promised by Pride's Biblical benefactors, the Gibborim. She refuses Alex's offer brutally and helps usher her friends to safety. Nico is sent to Father Flanagan's Home for Unwanted Goth Kids. However, the group organizes a mass escape from their homes to begin life as full-time vigilantes; Nico is generally accepted as the team leader.\n\nWhen Nico takes the leadership position, it proves she has the intelligence and courage to make difficult decisions. One notable example is a risky decision in leaving Xavin to battle a resurrected Geoffrey Wilder herself saying \"Xavin knew the risks\". In another incident where the Punisher was holding them at gunpoint and was seriously injured by being punched in the stomach by Molly, when the others expressed concern about his condition, Nico flatly stated that she \"wasn't going to waste a healing spell\" on him. Nico also kisses Chase after he negotiates their way out of a potentially fatal situation with an interdimensional drug-dealer; this causes a falling out between Nico and Chase's girlfriend Gert, almost dissolving the team from the inside. Gert's untimely death sends Nico into the arms of Victor Mancha, with whom she reveals she has a habit of running to people when distressed. She suffered survivor's guilt regarding Gert's death. Her insecurities and confusion over her romantic life comes to haunt her in a dream, where her deceased parents berated Nico for acting like a \"slut\" (for kissing Alex, Topher, Chase and Victor). Nico admits she is confused but she will figure \"who and what (she) likes on her own\" and then she kills them. She begins a relationship with Victor, but the relationship is quickly ended mutually after Victor falls for another girl.\n\nNico became very isolated and unstable after the events of Avengers Arena, where she was dismembered, resurrected, and ultimately survived MurderWorld, having almost no contact with the Runaways, even ignoring Molly's birthday. She explains she was destroyed after the events of the Arena, she was terrified of her new powers and was likely suffering from severe PTSD, and seeing Chase return to normal after the experience only made her hurt more.\n\nNico is a very emotional person and has repeatedly expressed difficulty with knowing precisely what she is feeling. Nico admits to Victor that she has a tendency to seek comfort after highly emotional situations or periods of stress. Despite this, she is typically very open when trying to express her feelings and has thus been able to connect with many of the Runaways on an emotional level and maintain many close friendships throughout the series. Over the years, Minoru has romantic relationships with several people, including Alex Wilder - by whose treachery she is devastated - and Victor Mancha. She has a confusing and frustrating time with the mutual feelings between her and Karolina, however, a romantic relationship never developed as their timing never seemed to work out, although Nico did eventually realize that she truly did love Karolina and after asking for a second chance, started a relationship with her and finally came out as a lesbian. \n\nIn the first volume, Nico and Alex share a brief relationship. She kisses him for the first time during the Runaways' attempted rescue of Molly Hayes; it is later revealed Alex was Nico's first kiss. She kisses and expresses love for Alex after he saves her from the vampire Topher; it is generally accepted that Nico and Alex are a couple at this point. Despite her professed love for Alex, Nico chooses to side with the Runaways after Alex reveals his plan to bring her to the Gibborim's new world with her parents, firmly establishing her dedication to the team and her strength of character. However, despite the betrayal, Nico demonstrates willingness to forgive when she unsuccessfully tries to resurrect Alex, and states that even though Alex was a traitor, he did not deserve death. In \"Mystic Arena\" set in volume one, she still misses and loves him. During the events of \"Avengers Undercover\", Alex is resurrected by Daimon Hellstrom to become Nico's tutor in battle strategy. She reminiscences her past affection for him; however, it's now replaced with murder daydreams of him and annoyance of his attempts to flirt with her. She tells him \"what we used to be, that's dead\". After Chase was injured in battle and left comatose, she is devastated and blamed herself. Nico momentarily gave up being good as it kept turning out wrong and hurt people she loves. She decided to 'do the wrong thing' in order to feel good, and briefly rekindled her romance with Alex before he betrayed her. And once again, they went their separate ways as she fought alongside the superheroes whereas Alex joined the super-villainous team, Young Masters.\n\nKarolina's feelings for Nico were hinted at throughout volume 1, ending with Karolina sheepishly blushing when Nico says she has sworn off boys. However, Karolina's feelings were not explicitly expressed until she attempted to kiss Nico. Nico immediately turned Karolina down; however, when Karolina decides to travel to her home planet Majesdane with Xavin, Nico is distraught for losing her friend. The Runaways stop Nico from casting a spell to bring Karolina back to Earth. Months later, Chase catches Nico strewing Karolina's clothes about her floor for remembrance's sake and tells him, \"I didn't hurt this bad when Alex betrayed us. I didn't even hurt like this when our parents died\". After Karolina returns, Nico becomes overjoyed and hugs her, saying that she felt all alone with Karolina gone. Their friendship is an occasionally strained one, due to Karolina's unrequited feelings towards Nico and Nico's conflicted feelings towards Karolina's relationships. When the group re-bands some time later, Nico attempted to kiss Karolina, revealing her possible romantic feelings. However, Karolina rejected her, due to her wanting to be faithful to her girlfriend, Julie Power, and dismissed it as Nico's habit of seeking physical comfort in times of stress. Following Julie and Karolina's break-up, Karolina invited Nico to attend her parents' legitimate foundation's charity ball with her. While there, Karolina's usual nervousness was replaced by newfound confidence because of Nico's support as she is \"always seen the real\" her. Nico confessed for a long time she was confused about herself so she couldn't see her clearly. Nico knows who and what she wants now and asks Karolina to give her a second chance. Karolina was surprised and a little scared but the two kissed, beginning a relationship.\n\nNico admits she provides a motherly role to Chase's rule-breaking persona. The pair maintain a strong respect for each other despite often disagreeing over major group decisions, including Gert's burial site and allowing Victor to join the team. Chase cares for Nico's safety and well-being, as evidenced from when he comforted Nico after Karolina's departure, and when he took the Staff of One from Nico to destroy it to give her a normal life. After Chase bluffed their way out of a fatal encounter with the drug lord, Pusher-Man, Nico kisses him. This causes a rift in their friendship, and into Gert and Chase's relationship. Nico is also the only person that Chase bids farewell before leaving to sacrifice himself for the Gibborim, which Nico interprets as a cry for help. Following their adventure in 1907, Chase and Nico's friendship appeared to be more stable after Chase moved past grieving for Gert. In Volume 3, issue 13, the two share a surprising and intimate kiss. Later, both were kidnapped together by Arcade to participate in his latest incarnation of Murderworld. In there, Nico started to develop a love-hate relationship with Chase. She repeatedly chided Chase for acting out of character and risking their lives. During the events of the arena, Nico was angry at Chase for acting differently or untrustworthy, even kicking him out of the group at one point. Despite this, Chase planned on protecting Nico and making sure she and not himself, was going to survive Murder World. After the events of the Arena, Nico became reclusive while Chase became the sole guardian of the Runaways. Nico was angry that Chase had reverted to his old-self after Murder World, while she thought of herself as broken. She was devastated when Chase was left comatose after a battle.\n\nGert and Nico had been close friends since birth. After Gert's death, Nico tells Victor (while crying) that Gert had sent her My Little Pony dolls in the forest because Gert thought they should be free and Nico had knit a purple scarf for Gert's thirteenth birthday, prompting Gert to dye her hair that color. Nico also told Gert that should Nico get hurt, Gert would be the leader of the group. The pair's friendship briefly breaks after Gert discovered Nico's kiss with Chase after their encounter with the Pusher Man. Their falling out caused much friction in the group. Nico and Gert finally resolved their differences with a short bout of tossing insults. Despite Gert's cynical attitude, she rarely argued with Nico's decisions and was usually prepared to stand by her friend. Nico experiences survivor's guilt after Gert dies, knowing that Gert's murderer Geoffrey Wilder had initially meant to kill Nico.\n\nNico explains that she seeks physical comfort after periods of stress. While Victor expresses feelings for Nico, she asks for time alone to clear her head and figure her feelings out, much like how she initially dealt with Alex and Karolina after each expressed feelings for Nico. However, Nico admits that Victor is genuinely a good guy and would not mind being in a relationship with him. Victor calls Nico his girlfriend when he attempts to save her from Chase, and although she is in a hostage situation, Nico still lightly scolds Victor for calling her such. The two eventually become a couple. However, the relationship is brief as Victor falls for Lillie, a carefree girl from 1907. Trying to become a better person, Nico, seeing that Victor and Lillie are in love, steps aside, deciding to remain friends even after Lillie decides to stay in the past.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080306", "title": "Drop Zone (film)", "text": "Drop Zone (film)\n\nDrop Zone is a 1994 American action film directed by John Badham, starring Wesley Snipes, Gary Busey, Yancy Butler, Michael Jeter, Luca Bercovici and Kyle Secor. When a U.S. Marshal has to break up a drug smuggling gang, he has to take to the skies. \"Drop Zone\" was released by Paramount Pictures in the United States on December 9, 1994.\nAboard a commercial Boeing 747 airliner, U.S. Marshals Terry (Malcolm-Jamal Warner) and Pete Nessip (Wesley Snipes), are escorting computer expert Earl Leedy (Michael Jeter) to a high security prison. When an apparent terrorist hijack attempt blows a hole in the airliner, Terry is sucked out to his death, and the terrorists parachute out of the same hole, taking Leedy with them.\n\nEx-DEA agent and renegade skydiver Ty Moncrief (Gary Busey) is the mastermind behind the attack, which culminated in the first ever parachute jump from a commercial jet at 30,000 feet. Ty plans to use Leedy to hack into the DEA mainframe computer in Washington, D.C. so Ty can auction off the names of undercover agents to drug cartels worldwide. Ty has scheduled this to be accomplished during an Independence Day parachute exhibition and fireworks display, which is the one day every year when security is loosened around the airspace above D.C.\n\nPete believes that the assault may have been an elaborate prison break meant to free Leedy. However, the FBI declares that sneaking a parachute through airport security is impossible, and that parachuting at the jet's altitude and speed is not survivable. A devastated Pete is blamed for overreacting to the incident, and forced to turn in his badge.\n\nUndeterred, Pete consults a U.S. Navy high-altitude military parachuting instructor who confirms that he and his team have parachuted from that height and speed, but also states that the high-density metal rings in the parachutes would not pass airport metal detectors and that the operation required either rare skills or suicidal recklessness. The instructor believes the world class skydiver Dominic Jagger (Luca Bercovici) could perform the jump, but does not know his current whereabouts. Pete is instead referred to Jagger's reckless ex-wife, ex-con Jessie Crossman (Yancy Butler), who runs a skydiving school in the Florida Keys. Jessie, who is unaware that Jagger is part of Ty's crew, agrees to train Pete how to skydive, if he will sponsor her team for the parachute exhibition. \n\nSoon after, Jagger is found dead, tangled in some high voltage power lines. Jessie breaks into the police impound to examine Jagger's parachute, declares that his death was a murder engineered by Ty, and swears revenge. Pete inquires as to the parachute's lack of metal, which Jessie explains is a custom \"smuggler's rig\" made with high density fabrics to deter detection.\n\nWhen Pete discovers Ty's plan to hack into the DEA mainframe, the rest of the parachuting team agrees to help Pete with the situation. Jessie's parachuting friend Selkirk (Corin Nemec) is severely injured after using a faulty parachute that Ty had intended for Jessie to use.\n\nOn the night of the Independence Day exhibition, Jessie sneaks into Ty's parachuting aircraft, holding them at gunpoint in order to determine an explanation for Jagger's death. But Ty's men kick her outside and then parachute out. Jessie, managing to grab hold of the aircraft door bar, lets go on a free fall just as Pete and the parachuting team arrive and rescue her, floating down safety to the roof of the DEA mainframe office building where Ty has already arrived.\n\nPete tries to find access to the DEA mainframe control room, eliminating Ty's men one by one, with the help of the parachuting team. He breaks in and holds Leedy (who has already started downloading the identities) as hostage. Ty, having kidnapped Jessie, appears and threatens to kill her unless Pete releases Leedy. A fight breaks out between Pete and Ty that results in of them falling out the building window.\n\nLuckily, Pete opens his emergency parachute as Ty tumbles to his death. Pete lands safely on the ground and is escorted away by paramedics, but spots Leedy wearing a DEA jacket leaving the scene. One of the team members, Swoop (Kyle Secor), leaps from the building, parachuting down onto Leedy and stopping him in his tracks. Pete tells Jessie jokingly that he would try skydiving again in 40 or 50 years.\n\n\"Drop Zone\" was one of two skydiving action films released in December 1994; the other was \"Terminal Velocity\". The original idea came from two professional skydivers, Tony Griffin and Guy Manos. One of the film's screenwriters, Peter Barsocchini, would later write \"High School Musical\". Steven Seagal was originally attached to star (for a rumored $15 million).\n\nThe insurance policies of Wesley Snipes and most of the cast precluded them from skydiving. However, Michael Jeter actually performed the tandem jump. The green Douglas C-47 Skytrain used in the skydiving scenes is currently on display at the Valiant Air Command air museum in Titusville, Florida. \n\n\"Drop Zone\" received a mixed reaction from reviewers. Film critic Lisa Schwarzbaum in \"Entertainment Weekly\", however, said, \"There’s something deafening and reckless and hotdogging about Drop Zone, and I mean that as a compliment. This macho action fantasy from subculture specialist John Badham (\"Saturday Night Fever\" (1977), \"WarGames\" (1983)) is set in the daredevil society of sky divers, where Pete Nessip (Wesley Snipes), an unlikely federal marshal who is the last man around you’d expect to see pulling a rip cord, throws in with a band of professional plane leapers based in swampy Florida.\"\n\nRoger Ebert noted: \"Drop Zone\" is one of those thrillers where the action is so interesting that you almost forgive (or even forget) the plot. The movie is virtually one stunt after another, many of them taking place in mid air, and during the pure action sequences you simply suspend your interest in the story and look at the amazing sights before you.\"\n\nFilm critic Chris Hicks saw one major problem, \"As the film moves along, however, plotting becomes more and more illogical – and late in the film there are bits of business that remove the story so far from reality that audience goodwill is stretched to breaking point. Suspension of disbelief is one thing, but this film asks us to abandon it altogether.\"\n\nThe review in the \"Washington Post\" accentuated the positives before dissecting \"a bad movie idea\" and its predictable improbability. \"Drop Zone\" currently holds a 41% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 22 reviews. Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B+\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\n\"Drop Zone\" had a modest debut and experienced a 52% drop in its second weekend. \"Drop Zone\" ultimately grossed $28 million domestically, failing to recoup its $45 million budget.\n\n\"Drop Zone\" was released on Video CD in 1996. The \"Drop Zone\" DVD was released in Region 1 on May 25, 1999 and Region 2 on June 5, 2000. The home media versions were distributed by Paramount Home Entertainment.\n\nThe Paramount Parks (now owned by Cedar Fair) featured drop tower amusement rides called Drop Zone: Stunt Tower, which were based on the film. The attractions are now named Drop Tower: Scream Zone.\n\nArtist Todd Higley's title song \"Jump You So Hard\" was inspired by his short-lived relationship with female lead Yancy Butler. The musical sting that plays when Swoop races to help the stricken skydiver has been frequently used in film trailers, most notably \"The Mask of Zorro\" (1998) and \"\" (2003), the latter of which, also scored by Hans Zimmer, used an adaptation of the piece as its main theme. \n\n"}
{"id": "2080308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080308", "title": "Bonfield, Ontario", "text": "Bonfield, Ontario\n\nBonfield is a township in northeastern Ontario, Canada, on the Mattawa River in Nipissing District.\n\nThe township comprises the communities of Blanchard's Landing, Bonfield, Grand Desert, and Rutherglen. The community of Bonfield is connected to Ontario Highway 17 by Ontario Highway 531, while Rutherglen is located directly on the route of Highway 17 and the other communities are located on local roads within the township.\n\nNamed after James Bonfield (1825-1900), one-time M.P.P for South Renfrew in the Ontario legislature. Town and neighbouring township were amalgamated on January 1, 1975.\n\nIn 2007, Bonfield, along with the town of Mattawa and the townships of Papineau-Cameron, Mattawan and Calvin cooperated to create a newly branded \"Mattawa Voyageur Country\" tourist region in order to promote the area.\n\nThe community of Bonfield was first settled in 1882 as a station on the Canadian Pacific Railway.\n\nLocated on the north shore of Lake Nosbonsing, where the railway crosses the Kaibuskong River, this place was originally named by the CPR as Callander Station. The community of Callander, on the South-East Bay of Lake Nipissing, had been named Callander in 1880, to honour the birthplace in Scotland of Duncan McIntyre, then president of the Canada Central Railway (CCR). It was at this place on the shore of Lake Nipissing, that the CCR intended to connect with the proposed eastern terminus of the CPR. In 1881 the Canada Central Railway was merged into the Canadian Pacific, as McIntyre became its vice president. As construction of the railway approached Lake Nipissing from the east, it turned away from the South-East Bay, towards the North Bay of Lake Nipissing instead. This was the closest point the CPR would come to the village of Callander, therefore this place was named Callander Station.\n\nAfter the Northern and Pacific Junction Railway established a station in the original village of Callander in 1886 and was taken over by the Grand Trunk Railway in 1888, there was much confusion between the station in Callander and Callander Station. The CPR location, Callander Station was renamed Bonfield, adopting the name of the township in which it is located.\n\n\nBonfield is home to 'Jake' the cat with the most number of toes. Jake was born in 2002 and has 7 toes on each paw; with a total of 28.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080310", "title": "Charles A. Willoughby", "text": "Charles A. Willoughby\n\nCharles Andrew Willoughby (March 8, 1892 – October 25, 1972) was a major general in the U.S. Army, serving as General Douglas MacArthur's chief of intelligence during most of World War II and the Korean War.\n\nWilloughby is often quoted as being born March 8, 1892, in Heidelberg, Germany, as Adolph Karl Weidenbach, the son of Baron T. Tscheppe-Weidenbach and wife Emma Willoughby Tscheppe-Weidenbach of Baltimore, Maryland. However, this was disputed by Frank Kluckhohn of \"The Reporter\" (\"New York Journal\") in 1952, and there remains uncertainty as to both his birth name and lineage.\n\nIt is certain, however, that Willoughby emigrated from Germany to the US in 1910, and in October 1910, he enlisted in the U.S. Army, where he served with the 5th Infantry, initially as a private, later rising to the rank of sergeant. He was honorably discharged from the army in 1913.\n\nHe then entered Gettysburg College as a senior in 1913 based on his three years of attendance at the University of Heidelberg and the Sorbonne in Paris before he came to the US in 1910. He graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1914. It is also disputed whether or not he actually did attend either European university.\n\nAfter graduation from Gettysburg College, Willoughby was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Officers' Volunteer Reserve Corps of the US Army in 1914. He spent three years teaching German and military studies (while serving as a reserve US Army officer) at various prep-schools in the United States. In August 1916, he vacated his position in the reserves to accept a Regular Army commission as a second lieutenant under the name Adolph Charles Weidenbach. He rose to Captain and served in World War I in the American Expeditionary Force.\n\nHe changed his name at some point between 1910 and 1930 to Charles Andrew Willoughby (a loose translation of Weidenbach, the German for \"willow brook\"). During his early life, he became fluent in English, Spanish, German, French, and later, Japanese.\n\nUsing the name Adolf Charles Weidenbach, Willoughby was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Regular Army on 27 November 1916, and promoted to first lieutenant on the same day. He joined the American Expeditionary Force (AEF) in June 1917 and was promoted to captain (permanent) on 30 June 1917, serving initially with the 16th Infantry Regiment (United States), First Division. He later transferred to the US Army Air Corps, where he was trained as a pilot by the French military.\n\nAfter the war, Captain Willoughby/Weidenbach joined the 24th Infantry in New Mexico in 1919. He spent two years at his post before being posted to San Juan, Puerto Rico. He became involved in military intelligence while in San Juan. While serving in Puerto Rico he married Juana Manuela Rodríguez Umpierre who bore him a daughter, Olga. He had served as a Military Attaché in Ecuador. He received the Order of Saints Maurice and Lazarus from Benito Mussolini's Fascist Italian government. In the 1920s Willoughby was an admirer of Spanish General and future dictator Francisco Franco, calling him the \"second greatest general in the world\". He met him in Morocco and then delivered a speech to him at a lunch in Madrid. He was toasted by the Secretary General of the Falangist Party.\n\nIn 1929, Willoughby was assigned to Command and General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas as a student and in 1931 as an instructor. In 1936, Major Willoughby was promoted to lieutenant colonel.\n\nWilloughby was the Chief of Intelligence on General MacArthur's staff during World War II, the occupation of Japan, and the Korean War. In Australia, Willoughby was not allowed to be present at the daily intelligence briefings given to MacArthur by USN codebreaker Rudy Fabian, see Central Bureau.\n\nWilloughby became a major general on 12 April 1945. Due to his initiative at the end of the Pacific Campaign war crimes charges against Shirō Ishii were dispensed with in exchange for information gathered by Unit 731, a covert biological and chemical warfare research and development unit of the Imperial Japanese Army that undertook lethal human experimentation in China. Additionally there was a monetary reward for Ishii.\n\nWilloughby's contribution during the Korean War is subject to some significant controversy, with several sources insisting that he intentionally distorted, if not out and out suppressed, intelligence estimates that showed the Chinese were massing at the Yalu River. Willoughby allegedly did so in order to better support MacArthur's (mistaken) assertion that the Chinese would never cross the Yalu, and thus allow MacArthur a freer hand in his drive to the Yalu.\n\nMacArthur affectionately referred to him as \"my pet fascist.\" Willoughby's \"vitriolic, paranoid, and frequently fantastic\" notes included antisemitic insults towards Beate Sirota Gordon, who helped write the Constitution of Japan. During World War II MacArthur said, \"There have been three great intelligence officers in history. Mine is not one of them.\" John Ferris in his 2007 book \"Intelligence and Strategy\" calls this an \"understatement\" and calls Willoughby a \"candidate for one of the three worst intelligence officers of the Second World War\" (p. 261).\n\nWriter David Halberstam, in his book \"The Coldest Winter\", paints Willoughby as largely having been appointed head of intelligence for Korea due to his sycophancy toward MacArthur. He points out that many veterans of the war, both enlisted and otherwise, felt that the lack of correct intelligence regarding the Chinese presence resulted in poor preparation by field commanders. This also contributed to MacArthur's desire to push his upper level commanders to divide their commands, making mutual support of units and fortifications inadequate for the large numbers of Chinese they were about to face.\n\nAs said of Willoughby, by Lieutenant Colonel John Chiles, 10th Corps G-3, or chief of operations of that unit.\n\nMacArthur did not want the Chinese to enter the war in Korea. Anything MacArthur wanted, Willoughby produced intelligence for.… In this case Willoughby falsified the intelligence reports.… He should have gone to jail...\n\nWilloughby was involved in the creation of Field Operations Intelligence, a top secret Army Intelligence unit that later came under joint military and Central Intelligence Agency control. He retired from the Army on August 31, 1951.\n\nAfter his retirement, Willoughby travelled to Spain to act as an advisor and lobbyist for dictator Francisco Franco. In his later years, Willoughby published the \"Foreign Intelligence Digest\" newspaper, and worked closely with Texas oil tycoon H. L. Hunt on the International Committee for the Defence of Christian Culture, an extreme right \"umbrella\" organization that had connections to anti-Communist groups. Another one of Willoughby's allies was Rev. Billy James Hargis. In 1968, Willoughby moved with his wife to Naples, Florida.\n\nCharles A. Willoughby died on 25 October 1972 and was buried at Arlington National Cemetery. He is a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame.\n\nWilloughby received numerous military decorations and medals, including:\n\n\"Guerrilla Resistance Movement in the Philippines, 1941-1945\"\nNew York: Vantage, 1972\n\n\"MacArthur, 1941-1951\"\nNew York: McGraw-Hill, 1954\n\n\"Shanghai Conspiracy: The Sorge Spy Ring\"\nBoston: Western, 1952\n\n\"Intelligence Series: G-2 USAFFE, SWPA, AFPAC, FEC, SCAP\"\nWashington, DC: Government Printing Office, 1948\n\n\"Campaigns of MacArthur in the Pacific\"\n\n\"Japanese Operations Against MacArthur\"\n\n\"America Needs a Foreign Legion!\" \"Argosy\", January 1966 (with Edward Hymoff)\n\"MacArthur in Japan: Military Phases\"\nWritten by Willoughby and a team of American and Japanese military commanders after World War II. Intended to be the basis for General MacArthur's memoirs, the final version disappeared after President Truman dismissed MacArthur. No copy has turned up in either MacArthur's or Willoughby's papers.\n\nGeneral Willoughby is frequently mentioned in author W. E. B. Griffin's series \"The Corps\", usually in an unflattering light.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080314", "title": "Central railway station metro station (Helsinki)", "text": "Central railway station metro station (Helsinki)\n\nThe Central Railway Station metro station (, ) is a station on the Helsinki Metro. The entrance is located in the Asematunneli main hall, which has an exit to the Helsinki Central Railway Station. It is among the only Helsinki Metro stations whose names are announced in English, in addition to Finnish and Swedish.\n\nAs one of the original metro stations, Central Railway Station was opened on 1 July 1982 and was designed by Rolf Björkstam, Erkki Heino, and Eero Kostiainen. It is located from Kamppi metro station, and from University of Helsinki metro station. The station is situated at a depth of below ground level and below sea level.\n\nOn 8 November 2009 a water main burst, flooding and causing significant damage to the underground station complex. On February 15, 2010 the station reopened for public use.\n"}
{"id": "2080317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080317", "title": "GENESIS", "text": "GENESIS\n\nGENESIS is a project maintained by the Women's Library at London Metropolitan University. It provides an online database and a list of sources with an intent to support research into women's history.\n\nThe database consists of descriptions of women's history collections from sources in the UK.\n\nThe project also provides a Guide to Sources to a large array of websites relating to women's history—both within the UK and internationally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080318", "title": "BBDO", "text": "BBDO\n\nBBDO is a worldwide advertising agency network, with its headquarters in New York City. The agency originated in 1891 with the George Batten Company, and in 1928, through a merger with Barton, Durstine & Osborn (BDO), the agency became Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn. With more than 15,000 employees at 289 offices in 81 countries, it is the largest of three global networks of agencies (BBDO, DDB and TBWA) in the portfolio of Omnicom Group.\n\nBBDO was named \"Network of the Year\" in 2005 by trade publications \"Adweek\", \"Advertising Age\" and \"Campaign\". In 2006, then-mayor of New York Michael Bloomberg proclaimed January 10 as BBDO day in recognition of the strength of its advertising, as well as its contributions to New York City. BBDO was named \"Network of the Year\" by \"The Gunn Report\" for thirteen consecutive years beginning in 2006, and it has won \"Network of the Year\" seven times since 2007 at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity. It was named \"Global Network of the Year\" by \"Adweek\" in 2011 and 2014.\n\nThe Barton & Durstine Company (founded by Bruce Barton and Roy Sarles Durstine) opened in January 1919, and when Alex Osborn joined the agency in July 1919, it was renamed Barton, Durstine & Osborn. In 1928, the George Batten Company (then managed by William H. Johns) merged with Barton, Durstine & Osborn to form Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, abbreviated B.B.D.O. or BBD&O, later BBDO.\n\n\nBBDO has had many appearances in American popular culture. Notable mentions include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080327", "title": "Barrow Island, Barrow-in-Furness", "text": "Barrow Island, Barrow-in-Furness\n\nBarrow Island is an area and electoral ward of Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, England. Originally separate from the British mainland, land reclamation in the 1860s saw the northern fringes of the island connect to Central Barrow. Barrow Island is also bound to the south and east by the town's dock system and to the west by Walney Channel. The Ward population taken at the 2011 census was 2,616.\n\nThe name of the town of Barrow-in-Furness is believed to derive from the Norse word \"Barrae\", meaning \"Bare Island\", which actually referred to Barrow Island. Since the 1860s the island has been connected to the mainland as its channel was modified to form two docks, the Buccleuch Dock and the Devonshire Dock. The remainder of its channel has also now been developed as part of the dock system. The island is also known as 'Old Barrow'.\n\nThe Second World War defences constructed around Barrow Island have been documented by William Foot. They included a number of pillboxes to defend the docks. The principal threat was seizure of the docks by airborne troops; a seaborne landing was thought to be highly unlikely unless Ireland was occupied first.\n\nDuring the late 19th century when most of Barrow Island's tenement housing was constructed the majority quickly became occupied by Scottish and Irish working class immigrants who worked at the town's shipyard, steelworks and jute mill.\n\nStill classed as one of the Islands of Furness, Barrow Island is characterised by densely constructed tenement housing alongside huge industrial buildings. The area is home to the vast majority of Barrow's shipyard including the Devonshire Dock Hall complex - the main occupier of the reclaimed land from Walney Channel. In 2011, the wards population stood at 2,616 which although relatively small compared to Barrow's other wards equates to a higher population density, and twice that of national average. The island has become notorious for its high unemployment rate and a number of other social issues which saw it feature in a 2009 episode of \"The Secret Millionaire\".\n\nBarrow Island, which is nicknamed 'Baz I' locally, is served by a primary school, nursery school, two churches, several pubs, post office, pharmacy and a number of small supermarkets. Work is currently underway to convert a former shipyard canteen/arts centre into two new retail units with office space.\n\nWith a previous unoccupancy rate of 80%, 320 of the apartments have been converted into serviced accommodation called 'The Maritime Apartments', costing around £5 million to refurbish. These are popular with contracted BAE workers, offshore wind farm and rig engineers and those in the construction industry. The land surrounding the apartments and along the main roads has benefited from a £1 million landscaping project to create parks, open spaces and growing areas. These are now known as the 'Maritime Streets'.\n\nBarrow Island is also home to a large business park currently under construction as part of the £200 million Waterfront Barrow-in-Furness project. The business park will be built over a period of 15 years and once complete, it is expected to have created between 1,200 and 1,600 highly skilled jobs.\n\nIn 2018 Barrow Island featured in news stories when it was revealed that over a 12-month period no books were loaned from its library, based in Barrow Island Primary School\n\nThe island is home to Barrow Shipyard, owned now by BAE Systems. Former owners included the Barrow Iron Ship-Building Company, Vickers Shipbuilding, VSEL and Marconi Marine (VSEL), which became part of BAE in 1999. The shipyard remains one of the largest in the United Kingdom, rivalled only by that of Govan. The island also forms a major part of the Port of Barrow, owned by Associated British Ports. A large portion of the Waterfront Barrow-in-Furness is planned to be constructed on Barrow Island.\n\nThe urbanisation of Barrow Island came about entirely as a result of the booming shipyard. Many of the existing shipyard buildings were constructed by VSEL, including the huge Heavy Engineering Workshop and Devonshire Dock Hall complex. Despite this, current owners, BAE Systems, have ambitious expansion plans on Barrow Island associated with the Trident successor programme.\n\nBarrow Island itself is a conservation area, while many of the shipyard buildings are listed buildings, as are numerous tenement houses including the Grade II* listed Devonshire Buildings.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, males outnumbered females in Barrow Island to significant degree which is in contrast to the Barrow and national averages. The central and western areas of Barrow Island are within the 3% most deprived nationwide, while the more modern eastern areas are within the 20% most deprived. Deprivation is measured in Barrow Island by its high percentage of individuals with long term illnesses, an unemployment rate almost twice as high as England's average, low levels of the overall degradation of the living environment.\n\nThe A590 trunk road runs across the northern edge of Barrow Island before crossing Walney Bridge and terminating on Walney Island. To the south of Barrow Island, Michaelson Road Bridge is another vehicle and foot bridge that crosses Buccleuch Dock into Central Barrow. Island Road is a wide tree-lined boulevard that acts as the primary artery through Barrow Island's eastern residential areas.\n\nHistorically Barrow Island was served by two railways stations, Ramsden Dock and Shipyard Junction as well as the Barrow-in-Furness Tramway. Although all evidence of the railway has gone, tramlines of the tramway are preserved across the island, most noticeably on Island Road and Michaelson Road.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080333", "title": "Danish Defence agreement 2005–09", "text": "Danish Defence agreement 2005–09\n\nDanish Defence agreement 2005–2009 () is the white paper for the military of Denmark was signed June 10, 2004.\n\nIt calls for a significant reconstruction of the entire Danish military. At present, it is about 60% support structure and 40% combat operational capability, in the future, it will be 40% support structure and 60% combat operational capability, resulting in more combat soldiers and fewer 'paper'-soldiers. The reaction speed will be increased, with an entire brigade on standby readiness for global deployment; the military will retain the capability to deploy 2.000 soldiers in international service, or 5.000 for a short time span. The standard mandatory conscription is modified. Generally this means fewer conscripts, shorter service time for them and only those who choose to will continue into the reaction force system.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080337", "title": "Molly Hayes", "text": "Molly Hayes\n\nMolly Hayes (also known as Bruiser or Princess Powerful) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character debuted in the award-winning series \"Runaways\". Like every member of the original Runaways, she is the daughter of evil villains with special abilities; after the other older Runaways learn more about themselves, they raid Molly's home to find out her mutant abilities had already manifested. Often called \"Mol\" for short, Molly is the youngest Runaway and her innocence often serves as humor in the series, but she has demonstrated great insight at critical moments.\n\nMolly was originally the team's sole mutant; despite having telepathic mutant parents, Molly's mutant powers are superhuman strength and invulnerability. She used to be the youngest member of the team, but after inviting fellow mutant Klara Prast to join, Molly takes comfort in having another mutant and someone her own age. She is extremely proud of her mutant heritage and admires the X-Men. \"Runaways\" creator Brian K. Vaughan played a significant role in the character's subsequent development as well as artist/writer Adrian Alphona. Molly was named after Runaways creator Brian K. Vaughan's younger sister, Molly Hayes Vaughan. Her trademark is an expansive lineup of hats displayed throughout the series. In 2009, Molly was named the fourth (out of ten) toughest females in the Marvel Universe, after Rogue, She-Hulk and Ms. Marvel.\n\nThe character was reimagined as Molly Hayes Hernandez and portrayed by Allegra Acosta in the Hulu television series \"Runaways\".\n\nMolly Hayes was created by author Brian K. Vaughan & artist Adrian Alphona and debuted in \"Runaways\" #1.\n\nMolly was one of the few Runaways to actually keep the name she had in Brian K. Vaughan's original proposal; she is named after Vaughan's younger sister, Molly Hayes Vaughan. However, in the original pitch for the series, Molly's parents were Hollywood actors. This would eventually become the cover story of Karolina's parents. Also, Molly's sibling-like relationship with Chase was originally supposed to be with Gert and this was shown in Hulu's version of the Runaways. Molly was supposed to be thirteen years old in the original pitch instead of eleven.\n\nMolly is with friends Alex Wilder, Karolina Dean, Gertrude Yorkes, Chase Stein, and Nico Minoru when they observe their parents calling themselves The Pride and preparing the ritual sacrifice of a young girl. Molly is preemptively escorted away by Karolina while the older children watch the sacrifice commence. They inform Karolina and decide to run away from their homes that very night. After discovering their powers and gifts, the older five kids rescue Molly from her home. Molly awakes from a psychically-induced slumber during the runaways' rescue and sees her mother being threatened by Nico. Molly's mutant powers manifest at that moment in a display of glowing pink hair and eyes. However, Molly first uses her strength to knock Leslie Dean out of the sky, saving Gert. Molly promptly falls asleep from exhaustion and the Runaways take her to their new hideout, a dilapidated mansion called \"the Hostel\".\n\nThroughout the first volume of the series, Molly is skeptical that her parents were accomplices to murder and is unsure why the group ran away in the first place. However, she is excited at the prospect of becoming a superhero and enthusiastically takes the codename \"Princess Powerful,\" while her teammates dub her \"Bruiser.\" Shortly after their \"superhero\" careers begin, the Runaways take in fellow runaway Topher, who turns out to be a vampire. He dies by ingesting Karolina's solar-irradiated blood and when Molly witnesses Topher's death, she realizes that the superhero life is not a game, and cries for her mother.\n\nAlex later deciphers a text kept by his parents called the Abstract, and informs the Runaways about their parents' activities as The Pride, their ties to the Gibborim (the Pride's Biblical benefactors), and their ultimate goal of exterminating all human life save for the six most loyal Pride members. Molly expresses disinterest in the Pride's motivations, but is excited when Alex plots to disrupt the Pride's ritual sacrifice to the Gibborim. When the Runaways encounter the Pride, Molly witnesses first-hand why she and her friends have been in hiding for months and destroys the sacrifice prepared for the Gibborim. She escapes with the Runaways when the Gibborim attack the Pride for losing the sacrifice. After the Pride's demise, Molly is sent to X-Corp for foster care, but breaks out with Gert's help and runs away with the rest of the team.\n\nIn the second volume, Molly fights under Nico's command and witnesses the future Gert die in Chase's arms as she warns the Runaways about the future supervillain named Victor Mancha. Molly participates in the search, and during the second fight with Excelsior, Molly discerns Chamber's fake accent; he is later revealed to be Geoffrey Wilder in disguise.\n\nAfter Victor joins the team, Molly accompanies him on group shopping trips under Nico's orders because she believes that Molly is the only individual member of the Runaways capable of bringing Victor down should he betray the team. During the runaways' trip to New York City to exonerate Cloak, Molly meets her idol and childish crush Wolverine, but he scares her and she hurls him out of a church, thereafter maintaining a severe dislike of him. During the adventure, The Punisher pursues the group in the mistaken belief that they are criminals. Molly stops him with a single punch, only to become distressed when she realizes the Punisher has no superpowers and that she has really hurt him. After the Runaways solve the case, they return to Los Angeles, but Wolverine and the X-Men follow them, looking to enroll Molly in Xavier's School For Gifted Youngsters. After a short altercation, the X-Men leave Molly alone, realizing that it would be unfair to force her to enroll.\n\nDuring one mission, Molly gets separated from the team and the Provost abducts her. He coerces Molly and other children into robbing banks for him. Molly rallies the children to stage a coup, and she finds her way back to the Runaways.\n\nMolly is abducted in a battle with a second incarnation of the Pride, made up of Alex's MMORPG friends and led by a younger version of Alex's father, Geoffrey. Nico rescues Molly with Xavin's aid, but Gert dies covering their escape. After Gert's death, Molly asks the Leapfrog, the group's transport, if Gert went to Heaven, but it cannot reply since Heaven is not on any of the maps in its database. Soon afterwards, Molly begins hearing a disembodied voice she believes is Gert's, and follows its instructions to help revive Victor. She helps Victor rescue Nico from the Gibborim and subsequently joins the team on their cross-country trek to evade Iron Man and S.H.I.E.L.D. The voice Molly heard is later revealed to have been Alex's.\n\nMolly is referenced in \"New X-Men\" #42 (November 2007): when Mercury researches for the youngest mutant in the world, Hellion asks about Molly, whom he believes to be five years old. The Stepford Cuckoos inform Julian he is incorrect.\n\nIn \"Runaways\" #10, the Runaways travel to San Francisco after Molly receives Emma Frost's psychic message inviting all mutants to a new safe Haven. Molly's non-stop chatter quickly annoys several of the X-Men and Wolverine gives her a tour of the X-Men's new base of operations. Molly begins to annoy Wolverine and the two argue until he insults Molly's parents and calls her a brat, causing her to throw him through the roof.\n\nWolverine is urged by Cyclops and Emma Frost to take Molly outside, and complies. The two tour San Francisco before they are kidnapped by a villain that was an enemy of the Pride. The villain and his soldiers had attempted to claim a portion of Los Angeles, although the Hayes stopped him, massacring his men and putting him in a traumatizing seven-year coma where he could not close his eyes, all for their own sadistic enjoyment. He recovered and seeks revenge against them by telling Molly her parents were evil and sadistic, having killed innocent people and children. He calls them far worse than any super villain, and ultimately plans on killing her as his final act of revenge. Wolverine and Molly manage to defeat him, though Molly realizes she'll never think of her parents the same way again. She is, however, comforted by Wolverine, who says that despite their villainous ways, her parents must have genuinely loved her in order to \"raise a kid as good as her.\"\n\nIn \"Uncanny X-Men: The Heroic Age\" #1 Beast is waiting for Abigail Brand at what seems to be an outdoor exhibition of fossil animals - as it turns out, it's the La Brea Tar Pits. Brand doesn't show up, and instead it's Molly who walks by. Molly tells him \"the guys\" have given her homework and asks him to tell her about extinction, but it's clear she actually wants to talk about the Decimation of mutants. She's heard about the Five Lights and clings to the hope, whereas Beast tries to talk her out of getting her expectations too high, until she finally punches him and runs away. He follows and manages to calm her down by telling her that mutant extinction does not mean that they would die any earlier than usually, but just that their children and grandchildren would be normal people. So, he tells her, all they could do was make the best of their lives so that, after all the mutants would be extinct, they would be remembered as having been worthy of their gifts.\n\nMolly makes a cameo appearance in \"New Avengers\" #7, as one of the applicants Luke Cage and Jessica Jones interview as a possible nanny. Molly begins by saying she knows she's underage, but she is cut off. When Daken, the psychopathic son of Wolverine seeks the Runaways in Los Angeles, Molly pins him down and angrily asks why he's invaded their home.\n\nAs part of the \"Marvel NOW!\" event, Molly Hayes is the only one to notice that Nico and Chase are missing and turns to Hank Pym for help. The rest of the Marvel Universe, for whatever reason, does not think twice about the mass disappearances.\n\nMolly later appears in the pages of \"Avengers Undercover\" where she and Karolina visit Nico and Chase in the S.H.I.E.L.D. detention center after Hazmat killed Arcade.\n\nAfter the Runaways went their separate ways, Molly was taken in by her grandmother, who Molly soon recognized was 'evil' even if not to the same extent as her parents. During Molly's time with her grandmother, she learned that the grandmother was her direct maternal grandmother, who had taken in Molly's father when he ran away, and carried out various genetic research to give Molly's parents their powers, accounting for how Molly's family could share the same mutant power. Molly's grandmother eventually reveals her true agenda to try and genetically recreate Molly's dead parents, but Molly rejects this idea, choosing instead to return to the Runaways (who now include the resurrected Gert and the bodyless head of Victor Mancha).\n\nMissing school life, Molly asked Nico to use her magic and legally enroll her in middle school. There she met a girl named Abigail, with whom she became fast friends. Eventually, Abigail confined in her that she was ageless, and gave her an enchanted cupcake once provided to her by the Enchantress which would enable Molly to stay young forever. However, while Molly was hesitant about whether or not she should accept, the cupcake was inadvertently consumed by Julie Power, who was visiting the Runaways, turning her into a 13-year-old again. The Runaways procured the antidote the Enchantress provided with the cupcakes, against Abigail's wishes, which broke their relationship.\n\nOriginally, Molly's mutant power was superhuman strength, with which she has toppled a giant monster bigger than a skyscraper, tunneled through miles of rock, and broken solid objects over her head. However, Molly was only able to use her powers for a limited amount of time before she became fatigued and fell asleep. When she first used her powers, Molly fell asleep after only throwing one punch, but as the series continued, Molly has been able to use her powers for increasingly longer periods of time and to greater extremes without tiring. Nico once used the Staff of One to give Molly a caffeine rush while fighting a giant monster to keep her awake longer.\n\nMolly was later revealed to have invulnerability as well, as evident when Excavator of the Wrecking Crew smashes his enchanted shovel over Molly's head, causing the shovel to crack into pieces. Despite the fact that Molly's mutation is entirely different from her telepathic parents, her eyes still glow a violet-pink (yellow in the web television series) when using her powers, just like her parents.\n\nMolly's strength has failed her on two occasions - she wasn't able to punch the adamantium armor of a Doctor Doombot, and she wasn't able to get out of Leslie Dean's unbreakable Majesdanian bonds.\n\nIn 2009, Molly was ranked the fourth strongest lady in the Marvel Universe, after Rogue, She-Hulk and Ms. Marvel. The ranking is based on the opinions of a select group of Marvel employees and do not reflect the official position of Marvel. In 2008, Marvel.com's list of ten best teen heroes featured Molly as a hypothetical number eleven, citing her too-young age as the reason she could not be on the regular list. In 2007, the Runaways made the list at number five of ten for best teams, citing the best Runaway's moment was when Molly and Victor made their version of the X-Men's \"Fastball Special\".\n\nAlthough Molly enjoys being independent and a superhero, she is still a pre-adolescent girl who wants to have fun. Most of her close relationships are based on who is willing to spend the most time playing with her. Molly also has a tendency throughout the series to gravitate towards people that she can look up to as a big sibling.\n\nIn the beginning of the series, Molly and Chase Stein engage in a big brother/little sister relationship: they bicker, call each other names, and horse around. Chase always stands up to protect Molly. As the series progresses, Chase and Molly grow apart, primarily due to his romantic involvement with Gert. In issues #18-#24 of volume 2, Chase distances himself from Molly and the rest of the Runaways to deal with his grief over Gert's death. However, in the \"Civil War: Young Avengers/Runaways\" miniseries, Chase expresses jealousy over Molly's growing attachment to Speed. Though they are not as close as before, Chase and Molly's relationship seems to have been repaired after Chase moved past grieving for Gert.\n\nMolly meets Victor Mancha when the Runaways abduct him from his high school, hoping to preempt the prophecy that Victor will one day kill the Earth's heroes. Molly adjusts rather quickly to Victor's addition to the team; she spends more time off the battlefield with Victor than most, playing board games with him and pairing up to go shopping. During one of their trips, it's revealed that Nico has ordered Molly to \"babysit\" Victor, because she is the only individual member strong enough to take Victor down if he goes haywire. Molly tells Victor that she's not particularly scared of him, and is willing to give him the benefit of the doubt regarding his supposed future. Victor surmises that Molly is simply using flattery to get him to buy her favorite cereal, but since she treats him as an equal and consistently spends time with him, he concludes that Molly was not just \"sucking up.\" As Molly's relationship with Chase deteriorated, her relationship with Victor grew stronger.\n\nThough Xavin was initially hostile towards all the Runaways (except Karolina) she has shown a great amount of concern for Molly's well-being. She returned to Earth with Karolina after their failed wedding as the Runaways were attempting to locate Molly after she was abducted by the second Pride; Xavin immediately volunteered to help the search efforts to locate \"the hatchling.\" Xavin is another one of Molly's frequent board game partners; during one of their gaming sessions, Molly expressed her discomfort with Xavin constantly shifting between forms and said that most of the team felt the same way. Despite this, Xavin still fought the Gibborim without hesitation to protect the team, after which Molly admitted that Xavin's consistent selflessness more than makes up for the shapeshifting. The two now share a close camaraderie.\n\nDuring the series, Gertrude Yorkes was a quasi-role model for Molly. Gert was usually the one that Molly asked most of her questions to and they were normally paired together to guard the Hostel and their getaway car. When Gert was killed at the hands of Geoffrey Wilder, Molly spent time sitting in front of a photo of Gert in the new Hostel's photo wall. Molly would talk to Gert as if she were really there. She also asked the Leapfrog if Gert went to Heaven (although it was unable to answer because \"Heaven\" was not on any of the Leapfrog's maps). In at least one instance, Molly seems to gain specific information from an unknown voice only she can hear, which she assumed to be the voice of Gert; in reality it was the voice of Alex Wilder, in an attempt to redeem himself and escape Limbo.\n\nWhen they travel to the past, Karolina introduced Molly to a girl in distress named Klara Prast, to help reach out to her because they are closer in age. Molly invites her to join the team, and together they manage to convince her to come with them to escape her tragic fate of being married to an abusive husband (the graver physically and possibly sexually abusive aspects of which Molly does not fully seem to understand due to her comparatively sheltered life). When Klara is upset by Karolina's seemingly interracial lesbian relationship, it causes a rift between her and Molly, as Molly defends Karolina and cannot relate to Klara's homophobic and racist attitudes, a result of her upbringing. Klara is visibly saddened by the confrontation (her emotions reflected in her roses) and leaves. Later, she returns, beaten by her husband, and the team accepts her back. While the two girls have very different personalities, with Molly feeling young compared to Klara who has weathered a lot of difficulties in her life, they remain close.\n\nAn adult version of Molly Hayes appears as a member of a future team of X-Men in the X-Men 50th Anniversary crossover, Battle of the Atom. Led by Kate Pryde, these X-Men arrive from their time to inform the present day X-Men that the original five X-Men must return to their proper place in time, as their presence in the current timeline will result in disastrous consequences for mutantkind. This team is eventually revealed, following the arrival of their era's true team of X-Men, to be, in actuality, their timeline's version of the Brotherhood of Mutants, with Kate Pryde revealed to actually be Raze, the shapeshifting son of Wolverine and Mystique. As an adult, Molly has grown into a tall, muscular woman and appears to have outgrown the chronic fatigue she formerly exhibited after using her powers. She also harbors a grudge against her timeline's Colossus as a result of the event which originally splintered the two teams. Following the Brotherhood's defeat, Molly hid with her team.\n\nMolly and the Brotherhood members have survived and infiltrate Cyclops' new school. The Brotherhood is defeated by the past-Jean Grey's mind powers, it is revealed that Molly and the Brotherhood members are being under the mind control of Charles Xavier II and subdues him. Molly and the former Brotherhood are freed and return to their future.\n\nDuring \"Secret Wars\" under the \"Battleworld\" banner, Molly makes a cameo in A-Force as a resident of the Battleworld domain of Arcadia. A version of her from Battleworld's Kingdom of Manhattan is featured as a major character in the alternative version of the Battleworld version of the Runaways.\n\nAllegra Acosta plays Molly in the Hulu television series, \"Runaways\" with her surname changed to Hernandez and Hayes being her middle name instead. Due to 20th Century Fox owning the X-Men and the word 'Mutant', Molly's origin is changed. She is instead a mutate with her powers seeming to come from strange rocks her parents had studied prior.\n\n Prior to the series opening, Molly's parents died in a fire and she was adopted by the Yorkes. She discovers that she has superhuman strength early on after suffering cramps and later on at home discovers a dinosaur in the basement. She begs Gert to take her away and they head to Alex's house. At Alex's house she meets her friends and while the gathering is awkward, they soon discover a secret passage in the house that leads to their parents sacrificing Destiny in a ritual. Molly's camera flash is seen by there parents. The group agree to deny seeing anything in order to figure out what Pride is doing and how to stop them. Alex's mother, Catherine, finds a hair bow that belongs to Molly and begins to question her. Molly convinces Catherine that she was told to look for alcohol by the others. Molly then questions Catherine about her parents, with Catherine promising to tell her about them another time. Molly, in an effort to know more about her parents, accidentally lets slip to Catherine about her knowledge of Pride. Geoffrey and Catherine tell Dale and Stacy that they must do something about Molly as she knows about Pride's activities. They tell Molly she is going to be sent away which angers her and Gert comforts her. While living with her relative, Graciela, Molly is given a letter containing a key which leads her to a locker that holds a VHS tape. Molly returns to the group with the VHS tape which contains a video from her parents warning her about Pride's activities. Molly and the others decide to use the school dance as a cover to infiltrate the drilling site. Molly uses her strength to push a dump truck into the drill hole in an attempt to stop the drill. Pride arrives and learn of Molly's and her friend's powers. Failing to stop them, Karolina is taken while Molly and the others escape. Molly and Chase sneak into the Church of Gibborim and rescue Karolina. Molly and the others then go to a bus station, but are forced to go on the run after the others are accused of kidnapping Molly and killing the girl that Pride had murdered.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080348", "title": "University of Helsinki metro station", "text": "University of Helsinki metro station\n\nThe University of Helsinki metro station (, ) is a station on the Helsinki Metro. It serves the University of Helsinki and surrounding areas in the central Helsinki districts Kaisaniemi and Kluuvi. From 1995 to 2015, the station's name was Kaisaniemi. The station is 27 metres below ground level and 22 metres below sea level. It is positioned 600 metres east of the Central Railway Station and 900 metres south of Hakaniemi. Both lines M1 and M2 serve the station.\n\nThe location of the metro station was decided in 1971, and the station box was excavated during the metro's original construction work in the late 1970s. The station's opening date was postponed due to a lack of funds. The station was eventually opened on 1 March 1995, having been designed by the architect firm \"Kontio - Kilpi - Valjento Oy\". The station is equipped with a glass-sided funicular-style elevator, operating along the slope parallel to the escalators.\n\nIn April 2014, the city council voted to rename the station from \"Kaisaniemi\" to \"University of Helsinki\". The rebranding was completed in January 2015 to commemorate the university's 375th anniversary. This metro station is one of two comprising the system to be named after a university; the other one is Aalto University.\n"}
{"id": "2080354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080354", "title": "Probabilistic risk assessment", "text": "Probabilistic risk assessment\n\nProbabilistic risk assessment (PRA) is a systematic and comprehensive methodology to evaluate risks associated with a complex engineered technological entity (such as an airliner or a nuclear power plant) or the effects of stressors on the environment (Probabilistic Environmental Risk Assessment - PERA) for example.\n\nRisk in a PRA is defined as a feasible detrimental outcome of an activity or action. In a PRA, risk is characterized by two quantities: \n\nConsequences are expressed numerically (e.g., the number of people potentially hurt or killed) and their likelihoods of occurrence are expressed as probabilities or frequencies (i.e., the number of occurrences or the probability of occurrence per unit time). The total risk is the expected loss: the sum of the products of the consequences multiplied by their probabilities.\n\nThe spectrum of risks across classes of events are also of concern, and are usually controlled in licensing processes – it would be of concern if rare but high consequence events were found to dominate the overall risk, particularly as these risk assessments are very sensitive to assumptions (how rare is a high consequence event?).\n\nProbabilistic Risk Assessment usually answers three basic questions:\n\nTwo common methods of answering this last question are event tree analysis and fault tree analysis – for explanations of these, see safety engineering.\n\nIn addition to the above methods, PRA studies require special but often very important analysis tools like human reliability analysis (HRA) and common-cause-failure analysis (CCF). HRA deals with methods for modeling human error while CCF deals with methods for evaluating the effect of inter-system and intra-system dependencies which tend to cause simultaneous failures and thus significant increase in overall risk.\n\nOne point of possible objection interests the uncertainties associated with a PSA. The PSA (Probabilistic Safety Assessment) has often no associated uncertainty, though in metrology any measure shall be related to a secondary measurement uncertainty, and in the same way any mean frequency number for a random variable shall be examined with the dispersion inside the set of data.\n\nFor example, without specifying an uncertainty level, the Japanese regulatory body, the Nuclear Safety Commission issued restrictive safety goal in terms of qualitative health objectives in 2003, such that individual fatality risks should not exceed 10−6/year. Then it was translated in a safety goal for nuclear power plants:\n\nThe second point is a possible lack of design in order to prevent and mitigate the catastrophic events, which has the lowest probability of the event and biggest magnitude of the impact, and the lowest degree of uncertainty about their magnitude. A cost-effective of the factor of safety, contribute to undervaluate or completely ignore this type of remote safety risk-factors. Designers choose if the system has to be dimensioned and positioned at the mean or for the minimum level of probability-risk (with related costs of safety measures), \nfor being resilient and robust in relation to the fixed value.\n\nSuch external events may be natural hazard, including earth quake and tsunami, fire, and terrorist attacks, and are treated as a probabilistic argument. Changing historical context shall condition the probability of those events, e.g. a nuclear program or economic sanctions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080355", "title": "Angono", "text": "Angono\n\n', ( or ), officially the ', (), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLocated east of Manila, and with the continuous expansion of the metropolis, it is now considered part of Metro Manila's conurbation.\n\nIt is best known as the \"Art Capital of the Philippines\", being the hometown of national artist for music Lucio San Pedro and national artist for visual arts Carlos \"Botong\" Francisco, as well as the site of the Angono Petroglyphs, the oldest known work of art in the Philippines. It is currently campaigning for its inclusion in the UNESCO Creative Cities Network as it is a center for visual arts. It is also campaigning for the inclusion of the Angono Petroglyphs (1 of 5 properties of the \"Petroglyphs and Petrographs of the Philippines\" UNESCO tentative site) in the World Heritage List.\n\nFirst created as a pueblo in 1766, Angono was a barrio of its neighboring town Taytay and Binangonan before it was legally proclaimed an independent municipality in 1938 by then President Manuel L. Quezon.\n\nThe Name \"Angono\" was derived from the myth of Panguno which Comes from the word \"Ang-uno\" which means \"The Dwarf\"\n\nAngono is politically subdivided into 10 barangays:\n\nIn the , the population of Angono, Rizal, was people, with a density of .\n\n\nThere are several business establishments present in the booming town of Angono. The \"SM Center Angono\" is considered as one of the major businesses in town. Trade and commerce are active, such data processing, pawnshops and banks as well. With nearly 100,000 inhabitants in this urbanized town, progress is at its peak. The proposed Angono Fish Port to be constructed at the lakeside shore of Laguna de Bay will soon boost more business opportunities and easier access from the nearby towns situated at the shores of the said lake.\n\nAngono is known as the Arts Capital of the Philippines. With the existence of numerous business establishments and leisure hubs/historical sites, this town is surely a tourist destination.\n\nAngono is the hometown of two national artists, Lucio San Pedro for music and Carlos \"Botong\" Francisco for visual arts. One of the public schools in Barangay Mahabang Parang is named Carlos \"Botong\" V. Francisco National High School in honor of the said artist. The town also boasts of other artists like Nemi Miranda known as Nemiranda, Perdigon Vocalan, Jose \"Pitok\" Blanco and the Blanco Family. Around the town are artworks like various sculptures.\n\nAngono also boasts of several actors/actresses Joey Hipolito, Freddie Reynoso, Zoraida Sanchez, Mike Tan, Nikki Gil, and BJ Forbes; news anchor Sandra Aguinaldo and film director Cathy Garcia-Molina.\n\nThe artistic town of Angono celebrates the feast of Pope St. Clement I every November 22 to 23 of each year. There are times that this coincides with the feast of Christ the King. The celebration starts with the novena mass on the 14th till 22nd day of November, the devotees in prayer and thanksgiving, dance in the church patio after the novena mass. The dancing was accompanied by the Angono band with the church bell ringing after playing the music.\n\nThe town is currently campaigning for its inclusion in the UNESCO Creative Cities Network as it is a center for visual arts. It is also campaigning for the inclusion of the Angono Petroglyphs (1 of 5 properties of the \"Petroglyphs and Petrographs of the Philippines\" UNESCO tentative site) in the World Heritage List.\n\nThe Bisperas Mayores or the day before the feast day was celebrated with a parade of the marching bands and drum and lyres sponsored by each barangay of Angono, this was held in the morning and early afternoon. The morning parade usually starts in Rainbow Village and ends at the church patio where the devotees again dances in praise and thanksgiving while the marching bands are playing. The afternoon parade are also joined by the higantes, local government officials and employees, commercial establishments in Angono, schools and other Angono socio and civic groups.\n\nThe celebration on the morning of November 23 starts with a concelebrated mass with the Bishop of Antipolo. The procession follows after the mass with the parehadoras, higantes and devotees joining the image of St. Isidore the Laborer, Pope St. Clement I and the Virgin Mary in a procession leading to the banks of Laguna de Bay in Barangay San Vicente for the fluvial procession, fishes like kanduli, tilapia and bangus which are caught by the fishermen devotees during the fluvial procession are displayed near the image of Pope St. Clement I. The images, devotees and member of the band ride the pagoda for the procession in the lake which will end at the other side of the lake in Barangay Poblacion Ibaba. The road procession again will start with merry making of parehadoras, higantes and wet devotees that will end in the church. Filipino artistry is truly alive in every celebration in Angono.\n\nThe feast of Christ the King which was held on the Sunday before the 1st Sunday of Advent usually coincides with the feast of Pope St. Clement I. The Viva San Clemente! celebration banners usually includes “Mabuhay ang Kristong Hari !” slogans to remind the people that Christ is the Lord and to proclaim Christ as the King of all nations. This is also a reminder that Pope St. Clement I is only a servant of God which somehow does not need adoration of the people because our Lord has already given him the highest honor – a blessing of a Saint – Angono’s patron and inspiration.\nViva San Clemente\n\nPope St. Clement I was the fourth pope of the Catholic Church after Pope St. Peter the prince of the apostles, Pope St. Linus, and Pope St. Anacletus. He faithfully proclaim Christ during his time and till he was martyred by being thrown into the sea with an iron anchor. The people of Angono celebrate Pope St. Clement I's feast day with a fluvial procession in the waters of Laguna de Bay as a reminder and inspiration of his faith in God.\n\nAngono’s joyous fiesta in honor of Pope St. Clement I whose image, resplendent in papal vestments, is held November 22–23, and involves a procession accompanied by parehadoras devotees dressed in colorful local costumes, wooden shoes and carrying boat paddles and higantes, giant paper mache effigies. The street event culminates in fluvial procession at the Laguna de Bay amidst revelry that continues until the image is brought back to its sanctuary.\n\nHigantes Festival is now promoted as tourism-generating event in the country. This attracts numerous tourists from all over the world.\n\nIt was said that the \"higantes\" started during the Spanish colonial times. When Angono was once a hacienda and ruled by Spanish hacienderos The Guido. The Angono land tillers way of protesting their struggle is by making giant effigy of their landlords whose hands are usually high up on their waist.\n\nThe body of the traditional higante are made of bamboo and colorful cloth and its faces of paper mache. The three old higantes of Angono consists of the family of giants – the father, mother and child higante, they traditionally add color and fun during the fiesta celebration. It was in the 80s when then Angono artist Perdigon Vocalan brought the idea of the Higantes Festival by going out of the traditional family of giants and advocating having more higantes in the fiesta by coordinating with the barangays of Angono to come up with Higantes that will represent their barangay. At present, the Higantes of Angono can be seen in fiesta celebrations around the Philippines and in national cultural presentations, the major being the Centennial Parade in the Quirino Grandstand for the Philippine Centennial celebration in 1998.\n\nThe higantes are made of paper-mache. Higantes measures four to five feet in diameter and ten to twelve feet in height. Traditionally, it began in the last century when Angono was a Spanish hacienda. This higantes was influenced by the Mexican art form of paper-mache brought by the Spanish priests to the Philippines.\n\nThe traditional parehadoras are group of young girls holding paddles and wearing bakya or wooden slippers and dressed in a colorful outfit which joins the procession in the feast day of Pope St. Clement I. They usually march at the beat of the band playing alongside with them. Now with a dying lake, the tradition of the Parehadora is now just a reminder that Angono was once a fishing village and thrives at the harvest of Laguna Lake.\n\nBlack Saturday is highlighted by 3-hour presentation of “Vigilia na Muling Pagkabuhay” at the patio of the church. On Easter Sunday, a celebration is held of the reunion of the Risen Christ with Virgin Mary is reenacted. It is facilitated by young girl inside an inverted giant paper flower suspended the removal of the mourning veil from Mary’s head by a from bamboo trellis. The petals are mechanically opened by giant toy birds to reveal the girl inside. It is then followed by a religious dancing of young ladies called “Kapitana” and “Tenyenta”, to the tune of “Bati”.\n\nChristianity is the major religion in the town, and the majority of all Christian denomination is Catholicism and a minority of Iglesia ni Cristo, Members Church of God International Born Again, Jehovah's Witnesses and more.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080356", "title": "Baras, Rizal", "text": "Baras, Rizal\n\n', officially the ', (), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIn 1595, the Franciscan missionaries under the leadership of Fr. Juan de Placencia and Fr. Diego de Oropesa, founded a “visita” for Morong on the present site of Bosoboso, south of Painaan with Apostol Santiago as its patron saint. It was known as “Visita de Santiago” or Santiago until such time that it became Baras. Baras was then inhabited by 400 Aetas and other mountain people.\n\nIn 1636, the town was transferred to a place called Ibayo, one and one-half leagues southeast of the first site due to the hostility of the Aetas and the mountaineers who burned part of the town and church in 1635. San Salvador became their patron saint. However, the town and church of Baras was burned by Chinese rebels in 1639, who were retreating from Manila to the Sierra Madre mountains.\n\nThe ecclesiastical administration of Baras was given back by the Jesuits to the Franciscan in 1679. Two years later In 1682, the town was transferred to its present site where they would not be menaced by marauding tribes of the mountaineers.\n\nBaras was under the jurisdiction of the Province of Laguna from 1606 to 1853. Its administration was transferred to the newly created Distrito de las Monte de San Mateo in 1857. This district was changed to Distrito de Morong whose capital was in Antipolo but was later transferred to Morong.\n\nIn July 1895, the representatives of Katipunan came to inform the people of Morong, Tanay, Antipolo, Baras and Pililla about the cause of the secret society. The Katipuan of Baras established the Real or Military Camp at sitio of Gogo or Pamitinan. On November 21, 1896, the Katipunan attempted to capture the town of Morong but were driven by the Guardia Civil. By 1898, Baras had joined the Revolutionary Government of Emilio Aguinaldo.\n\nAfter the defeat of the Spaniards in Morong, the Aguinaldo Headquarters ordered the establishment of the municipal township. A special election was held. However, the Revolutionary Government of Aguinaldo did not last because of the outbreak of the Filipino-American War. On March 29, 1900, Military Order No. 40, by Governor General Meritt came in effect. This order was for the election of an Alcalde Municipal, Vice Alcalde, and the Municipal Council. This was implemented in October of the same year.\n\nAct 942 was passed by the Philippine Commission in 1902, providing the establishment of the Province of Rizal to be comprised in part of towns from the former Distrito de Morong. Baras effectively became part of the new province. However, in 1903, it was relegated to be a barrio under the town of Morong.\n\nOn January 16, 1906, Baras was annexed to Tanay as a barrio by Act No. 1442. But as Baras was not represented as a barrio of Tanay, and previously under Morong, there was a movement for the separation of Baras as an independent town. Under the leadership of Leopoldo Digma, the clamor was realized through Executive Order No. 57, dated November 24, 1920 establishing the Municipality of Baras.\n\nDuring the Second World War, the Imperial Japanese armed forces occupied and entered the municipal town of Baras in 1942. The local guerrillas of the General Marking Unit sieged and invaded the town of Baras and attacked the Japanese from 1942 to 1945. The local Filipino troops of the Philippine Commonwealth Army and the Philippine Constabulary units liberated the municipality of Baras in 1945. The guerrillas of the General Marking Units defeated the Japanese forces and it ended World War II.\n\nThe Military General Headquarters and Camp Bases of the 53rd Infantry Division of the Philippine Commonwealth Army was established and active from January 3, 1942 to June 30, 1946 and built Camp Caparas in Baras. The military engagements of the Anti-Japanese Operations in Manila and Southern Luzon aided the local guerrilla resistance fighters and U.S. military forces against the Japanese Imperial forces.\n\nThe town of Baras was razed to the ground on March 10, 1945. This signified the liberation of the town but also left many homeless. The rehabilitation of the town began. War damage claims were filed to the amount of P 300,000 to be used for the construction of new houses. Then mayor, Mariano Golla, focused on the improvement of roads and the construction of a public dispensary. Under his term, Baras was elevated to a fourth class municipality due to an increase in income.\n\nUnder the succeeding administrations, improvements of road networks were implemented; seven liberty wells were constructed; the number of school houses were increased; river controls in Barangay San Juan and San Jose were constructed; rehabilitation of the existing government building continued; and a reforestation program was launched.\n\nBaras is politically subdivided into 10 barangays (1 urban, 9 rural):\n\n\nIn the , the population of Baras, Rizal, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe oldest and most notable landmark in Baras is the St. Joseph Church, built by the Franciscan missionaries in 1682, the same year the town was transferred to its present site. It was completed in 1686 and was dedicated to St. Joseph, the town's patron saint. It is known for having \"paniki\" in its ceiling. The Church has been seen in well-known international and local films, TV series and commercials.\n\nThis breathtaking man-made falls in Palo Alto is just an hour drive from the town's population. Located in Marcos Highway(Marikina–Infanta Highway)\n\nLegend says two lovers who had family issues committed suicide to the falls so no one will be able to separate them. The Falls is now being managed by the Local Government Unit. Few minutes of hike will take you to the cold as ice falls of Kinamatayan.\n\nA conservation area adjacent to Garden Cottages located in the mountainous section Marcos Highway(Markina-Infanta Highway) of Baras by its border with Tanay, Rizal.\n\n\nBaras is also the home of the Philippines' native martial arts', Sikaran,This ancient martial arts was popular among the Farmers in the Village of Baras in the province of Rizal in the Philippines even before the Spanish Conquest of the Philippine Archipelago on March 16, 1521 when the Islands was discovered by Ferdinand Magellan.\n\nHari Osias Banaag, originator of the Global Sikaran Federation and diplomat for the Traditional game, He recently attended and was warmly received at the UNESCO Collective Consultation Meeting on the Preservation and the Promotion of Traditional Sports and Game (TSG).Hari Osias Banaag is an appointed member of Ad hoc Advisory Committee Traditional Sports and Games, UNESCO(TSG)Ref\n\n"}
{"id": "2080357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080357", "title": "KPTV", "text": "KPTV\n\nKPTV, virtual and VHF digital channel 12, is a Fox-affiliated television station licensed to Portland, Oregon, United States. The station is owned by the Meredith Local Media subsidiary of Des Moines, Iowa-based Meredith Corporation, as part of a duopoly with Vancouver, Washington-licensed MyNetworkTV affiliate KPDX (channel 49). Although the two stations share studios on NW Greenbrier Parkway in Beaverton and transmitter facilities in the Sylvan-Highlands section of Portland, master control and some internal operations are based at Meredith's West Coast hub facility at the studios of CBS-affiliated sister station KPHO-TV in Phoenix, Arizona.\n\nKPTV signed on the air on September 20, 1952, as Oregon's first television station. KPTV originally broadcast on channel 27, making it also the nation's first commercial television station to broadcast on the UHF band. (the first experimental UHF station was Bridgeport, Connecticut's KC2XAK on channel 24). The station was originally owned by Empire Coil. As Portland's only television station at the time, it carried programming from all four networks of the time: ABC, CBS, NBC and the DuMont Television Network. CBS programming was dropped from KPTV's schedule when Portland's first VHF station, KOIN-TV (channel 6), signed on the air on October 15, 1953. KPTV then became a primary NBC affiliate, and also continued to air some ABC and DuMont programming.\n\nKPTV also aired programs from the short-lived Paramount Television Network during the early 1950s; in fact, it was one of that network's strongest affiliates, carrying Paramount programs such as \"Time For Beany\", \"Hollywood Wrestling\", and \"Bandstand Revue\". During the late 1950s, the station was also briefly affiliated with the NTA Film Network. Empire Coil sold KPTV and its other broadcast property, WXEL (now WJW-TV) in Cleveland, to Storer Broadcasting on November 17, 1954. On August 11, 1954, KPTV became the first television station in Portland to broadcast in color, three days before KOIN achieved the same milestone.\n\nThe VHF channel 12 allocation in Portland was first occupied by KLOR-TV, which signed on March 8, 1955, as a primary ABC affiliate with a secondary DuMont affiliation. However, KLOR's network affiliations were short-lived. In 1956, KLOR lost its affiliations with both networks as the DuMont Television Network ceased operations, and the ABC affiliation moved to KGW-TV (channel 8) when that station signed on the air in December. On April 17, 1957, Detroit businessman George Haggerty purchased KPTV from Storer and KLOR from its local owners. On May 1, the two stations merged under KPTV's license, but using the stronger channel 12 signal (channel 27 was later used by independent station KHTV, which was on the air for less than four months in 1959; more recently, the channel 27 frequency was used by the digital signal of PBS member station KOPB-TV, which returned to its original channel 10 assignment following the analog shutdown; the KHTV call letters were later used to sign on channel 39 in Houston in 1967, that station used the callsign from its launch until 1999; it is now KIAH).\n\nOn April 17, 1959, KPTV swapped affiliations with KGW and became an ABC affiliate. Later that year, KPTV was sold to the NAFI Corporation, which then purchased Chris-Craft Boats in early 1960 and changed its name to Chris-Craft Industries. Color broadcasting by KPTV ended when NBC changed affiliations to KGW, in 1959, but returned in 1962, when ABC began color broadcasting.\n\nKPTV can boast being the home of the two top children's TV hosts in Portland's history: Rusty Nails, a sweet-natured clown who was the rough inspiration for \"The Simpsons\" creator Matt Groening's Krusty the Klown; and \"Ramblin' Rod\" Anders. While Rusty Nails ran Three Stooges shorts, Ramblin' Rod ran Popeye cartoons. \"Ramblin' Rod\" was the longest-running kid's show in Portland TV history, airing from 1964 to 1997. Other KPTV children's hosts included longtime KPTV personality Gene Brendler who played \"Bent Nails\" (Rusty's \"brother\"), and George Ross, who played \"Dr. Zoom.\" Bob Adkins, better known as \"Addie Bobkins,\" brought his show to KPTV from Eugene's KVAL-TV in 1961. \"Addie Bobkins\" featured a wise-cracking beatnik hand puppet named \"Weird Beard.\" Both Ross and Adkins ran a variety of cartoons to entertain the kids.\n\nOn March 1, 1964, KPTV lost its ABC affiliation to independent station KATU (channel 2), which had debuted in March 1962. KPTV sued ABC and KATU's then-owner Fisher Broadcasting for breach of contract; the proceeds from the settlement went to rebuild KPTV into a color-capable station, and to purchase a color mobile unit. KPTV soon became known as one of the top independent stations in the western United States. By the late 1960s, it was a regional superstation carried on every cable system in Oregon, as well as a number of cable systems in parts of Washington and Idaho.\n\nIn 1967, \"Portland Wrestling\" returned to KPTV after a 12-year absence. Frank Bonnema, news reporter and afternoon movie host, served as the voice of \"Portland Wrestling\" until shortly before his death on October 5, 1982. KPTV had originated telecasts of professional wrestling in 1953, with commentator Bob Abernathy, but lost the franchise to rival KOIN two years later. KPTV regained the franchise in 1967, and aired the wrestling matches until December 1991. Later wrestling commentators were KISN radio DJ Don Coss and former wrestlers Dutch Savage and Stan Stasiak. \"Portland Wrestling\"s chief promoters were Don Owen, and later, former wrestler-referee Sandy Barr. Primary long-time sponsors for the show were Chevrolet dealers Ron Tonkin of Portland and Friendly of Lake Oswego, and the celebrated ever-smiling furniture and appliance dealer Tom Peterson. Peterson was also the top sponsor for most of KPTV's movies.\nIn 1970, KPTV became the first television station in the market to broadcast Portland Trail Blazers basketball games, with sports director Jimmy Jones serving as the team's first play-by-play television announcer; KPTV maintained the broadcast rights to Blazers games until the end of the 1977–78 season. In 1977, Chris-Craft placed its self-named television subsidiary underneath a holding company called BHC, Inc.\n\nKPTV carried Operation Prime Time programming at least in 1978.\n\nOn October 9, 1986, channel 12 became one of the original charter affiliates of the newly launched Fox network (although still programmed as independent as Fox wouldn't start a full weeks' worth of programming until 1993; it was one of a few VHF stations to affiliate with the new network upon its startup). However, KPTV did not remain a Fox affiliate for very long. By 1988, KPTV was one of several Fox affiliates nationwide (as was the case with its Minneapolis–Saint Paul sister station, KMSP-TV) that were underwhelmed by the network's ratings and programming in its first two seasons. The station subsequently disaffiliated from the network on August 29 of that year and reverted to being an independent station. The Fox affiliation shifted to KPDX (channel 49), which first signed on the air in 1983. In 1993, KPTV, along with Chris-Craft's other independent stations, began carrying programming from the Prime Time Entertainment Network, a programming service that Chris-Craft had owned in conjunction with Warner Bros. Entertainment.\n\nBy the early 1990s, Fox gradually rose in popularity as it began to carry stronger programming than had aired during KPTV's previous stint with the network, with many shows that were starting to rival the program offerings of the \"Big Three\" networks. In response to this, in late 1994, Chris-Craft/United Television partnered with Paramount Pictures/Viacom to form the United Paramount Network (UPN) and both companies made independent stations that they respectively owned in several large and mid-sized U.S. cities charter stations of the new network. UPN launched on January 16, 1995, with channel 12 becoming a UPN owned-and-operated station—the first such O&O station in the Portland market—as a result of Chris-Craft/United's ownership stake in the network. KPTV would eventually be stripped of its UPN O&O status in 2000, after Viacom exercised a contractual clause to buy out Chris-Craft's stake in the network, although the station remained with UPN as an affiliate for another two years.\n\nOn August 12, 2000, Chris-Craft sold its UPN stations (spinning off two other stations that were not affiliated with that network in the process) to the Fox Television Stations subsidiary of News Corporation for $5.5 billion; the deal was finalized on July 31, 2001. However, instead of keeping the station, Fox traded KPTV to the Meredith Corporation, owner of KPDX, in exchange for WOFL in Orlando and its Gainesville semi-satellite WOGX in a deal which was finalized on June 17, 2002. The KPTV purchase gave Meredith the first television station duopoly in the Portland market.\n\nMeredith then decided to swap the market's Fox and UPN affiliations; on September 2, 2002, Fox programming moved to the higher-rated KPTV—returning the network to channel 12 after a 14-year absence—while KPDX joined UPN. As part of the switch, KPTV's longtime moniker of \"Oregon's 12\" transitioned to \"Fox 12 Oregon.\" Although KPTV is the senior partner in the duopoly, the merged operation was based at KPDX's newer and larger facility in suburban Beaverton rather than KPTV's longtime home in East Portland. KPTV also absorbed KPDX's news department, resulting in the cancellation of KPDX's 10 p.m. newscast (KPDX now airs a weeknight 8 p.m. newscast that is produced by KPTV). The Fox affiliation switch coincided with a realignment of the National Football League that brought the market's most popular NFL team, the Seattle Seahawks, into the NFC West division. As a result, KPTV became an unofficial secondary station for the Seahawks, airing most of that team's games through the Fox network's rights to air games from the NFL's National Football Conference.\n\nOn October 27, 2012, KPTV revived \"Portland Wrestling\" after a 21-year absence from the station and renamed the program \"Portland Wrestling Uncut\". The program had been brought back on the air with the help of Rowdy Roddy Piper; Don Coss has also returned to announce the matches along with special guests. The wrestling matches were taped at KPTV's Beaverton studios. Two months later on December 29, \"Portland Wrestling Uncut\" moved to KPTV's sister station KPDX, retaining the Saturday night timeslot that the program held when it was revived on KPTV. The show went off the air by mid-2014.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKPTV shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 12, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 30 to VHF channel 12.\n\nWhen KPTV vacated its digital signal from UHF channel 30, sister station KPDX immediately switched its signal to that transmitter. Viewers watching KPTV's digital signal saw a cut from the opening of that day's episode of \"The 700 Club\" to the cold open of an episode of \"\" (KPDX turned off its analog transmitter at 9:30 a.m.).\n\nKPTV clears most of Fox's programming schedule (nightly primetime, Saturday late night, and Fox Sports programming, along with the political talk show \"Fox News Sunday\")—however it preempts the network's Saturday morning educational programming block, \"Xploration Station\", which instead airs on KPDX. Much like the stations that were affected by the Fox/New World affiliation switches of 1994, KPTV chose not to air Fox's children's programming (4Kids TV; formerly Fox Kids) after the 2002 affiliation switch to Fox; the lineup remained on KPDX until 4Kids TV was discontinued by Fox (due to a dispute between the network and the block's lessee 4Kids Entertainment) in December 2008. Syndicated programming seen on KPTV includes \"Family Feud\", \"The King of Queens\", \"Judge Judy\", \"Access Hollywood\", and \"2 Broke Girls\".\n\nIn 1966, KPTV began airing syndicated reruns of \"Perry Mason\" on weekday evenings. In 1970, KPTV shifted \"Perry Mason\" to a new time, weekdays at noon—the start of a longtime Portland television tradition, as the program would air in that timeslot each weekday until 2012 (save for a 10-month period from 1974 to 1975, when it aired at 12:30 p.m.). By the late 2000s, KPTV audience research indicated that one out of every 11 people in the Portland market who were watching television at 12 p.m. weekdays were tuned in to \"Perry Mason\" on channel 12. The noon tradition was so solid that when Meredith Corporation named Patrick McCreery as KPTV's general manager in August 2008, McCreery was granted the power to make any local programming move he saw fit with one exception—that he could not drop \"Perry Mason\" from the schedule or move it off the 12 p.m. timeslot.\n\nThe tradition ended however in August 2012 as \"Perry Mason\" ended its 46-year run on KPTV, and moved to sister station KPDX on September 4 in an earlier 8 a.m. timeslot (\"Rachael Ray\" replaced \"Mason\" in the noon timeslot on KPTV); the program's relocation from the noon slot—and displacement from KPTV—was cited as the result of decreased viewership of \"Perry Mason\" in recent years on channel 12 and programming shifts in daytime television towards more first-run syndicated talk and court programs. Because KPTV and KPDX held the broadcast rights to \"Perry Mason\" in the Portland market, KATU did not air the program on its MeTV subchannel (that network holds broadcast rights to the program nationally), replacing it with other programs carried by that network.\n\nBy September 2014, \"Perry Mason\" had left KPDX and was replaced with variable programming, ending the longtime Portland tradition. Accordingly, KATU's MeTV subchannel now airs the program in pattern with the national schedule.\n\nKPTV presently broadcasts 67 hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 11½ hours each weekday, five hours on Saturdays and 4½ hours on Sundays); in regards to the number of hours devoted to news programming, it is the highest local newscast output of any television station in the state of Oregon. The station produced a half-hour sports wrap-up show called \"Oregon Sports Final\" that aired on Sundays at 11 p.m. (the program ended on September 10, 2017 and was replaced by the Sunday edition of the 11 p.m. newscast on September 17). KPTV is also one of the few Fox affiliates that produces newscasts for another television station in the same market, as it produces ten hours of local newscasts each week for sister station KPDX (consisting of two hour-long primetime newscasts at 8 and 9 p.m.).\n\nThroughout its entire history, as a network affiliate and as an independent station, KPTV has always operated a local news department. Future Oregon governor Tom McCall, a longtime journalist before entering politics, joined KPTV in 1955 as a newscaster and political commentator. McCall left KPTV in late 1956 for KGW-TV, where he was a member of the original news team for seven years before leaving to run for Oregon's secretary of state. The station's long-running primetime newscast, known as \"The 10 O'Clock News\", debuted in 1970. KPTV was also one of the first television stations in the country to run a mid-afternoon newscast, as the station aired a 3 p.m. news bulletin (known as \"Coffee Break News\") from 1974 to 1978. Since then (especially after switching to Fox), KPTV has begun to go head-to-head with competitors KGW, KATU and KOIN by taking on a more news-intensive format, which took years to take effect.\n\nThe station launched its morning news program, \"Good Day Oregon\", in 1996 as a three-hour weekday broadcast. The program has since been extended, and currently runs from 4:30 to 9 a.m.; KPTV was one of a growing number stations in the country with a morning newscast beginning before 5 a.m. until April 19, 2010, when the 4:30–5 a.m. portion of \"Good Day Oregon\" was cut, the 4:30 half-hour of the program was restored in 2012. KPTV is also one of the few local stations and one of a handful of Fox stations to offer a three-hour newscast on Saturday and Sunday mornings.\n\nOn June 5, 2007, KPTV became the second Portland television station to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in widescreen standard definition. One year later on March 4, 2008, the station expanded its newscast schedule to include a weekday 4 p.m. newscast (which was canceled in 2011 but brought back in September 2019), as well as a weekday 8 p.m. newscast on KPDX, with MyNetworkTV programming on KPDX being shifted one hour to 9 to 11 p.m. as a result. The station expanded its 5 p.m. newscast (which had been airing only on Sundays, except when Fox sports programming was scheduled to preempt it) to seven nights a week, now airing on weeknights after its existing 4 p.m. program on September 8, 2008 (the program was eventually reduced to weekdays only by 2012). On April 19, 2010, KPTV began producing a fifth hour of \"Good Day Oregon\" for KPDX called \"More Good Day Oregon\", running from 9–10 a.m.; the show features various entertainment and lifestyles topics from a seasoned panel of experts; this extension of the program was canceled in 2012. In 2011, KPTV began broadcasting an hour-long newscast at 6 p.m. on weeknights. On August 26, 2013, KPTV became the last television station in the Portland market to begin broadcasting its newscasts in high-definition.\n\nIn March 2014, KEVU in Eugene started airing some of KPTV's broadcasts. It airs the 8 a.m. hour of \"Good Day Oregon\" tape-delayed at 9 a.m. on weekdays and the 7:30 half-hour, live on weekends. It airs the first half-hour of \"The 5 O'Clock News\", tape-delayed at 5:30 p.m. on weekdays and the first half-hour of \"The 10 O'Clock News\", tape-delayed at 11 p.m. every night.\n\n\n\nKPTV, like all other Portland stations, has low-power repeater stations throughout Oregon and Washington. Some of the repeaters are owned by KPTV, while others are owned by local translator districts.\n\nBy FCC mandate, low-power stations on UHF channels 52 to 69 were required to vacate those channel frequencies by December 31, 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080362", "title": "Binangonan", "text": "Binangonan\n\n', officially the ', () is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nA thriving fish port and fishing industry is found in Binangonan, having a long coast line facing the Laguna de Bay, including the western part of Talim Island. The plant of Rizal Cement and Grandspan are in Binangonan as well. Their main livelihood are fishing and farming.\n\nWith the continuous expansion of Metro Manila, the municipality is now part of Manila's conurbation which reaches Cardona in its easternmost part.\n\nIt is claimed that the \"binañgonan\" means “the first town established along the lake”, in reference to a legend that tells of how the towns around Laguna de Baý were named. More likely however is that \"binañgonan\" refers to a place from where someone or something rose, based on the definition of \"binangunan\" in Tagalog.\n\nThe Neolithic stone engravings of the Angono Petroglyphs archaeological site represent the earliest evidence of human settlement in the region. The site contains earthenware fragments and remains of animals such as turtles and \"Elephas sp.\" The area was inhabited by both Tagalog and Aeta peoples before the arrival of the Spanish.\n\nBinangonan was initially a visita of the pueblo (town) of Moron, until it was separated and became an independent parish in 1621 through the initiatives of Franciscan missionaries. The town was established in 1737 and conquered by the Spaniards in 1763. Originally, it was organized under the province of La Laguna, until it was transferred to the newly established Distrito de Morong on 23 February 1853. The Santa Ursula Parish Church dates from this time, built from 1792 to 1800. It became a town in 1900 during the American colonial period.\n\nDuring World War II, Binangonan was one of the evacuation centers for the residents of Manila and neighboring suburbs. People hid in the mountains and in Talim Island. The war brought untold difficulties and sufferings. Schools were temporarily closed; professionals turned to fishing, buy and sell for living. Many died of starvation, malnutrition and diseases while others survived by eating camote tops, papaya, corn, coconut and vegetables.\n\nMonths after the Japanese occupied the town, Faustino Antiporda organized Bantay Sunog, a brigade tasked in maintaining peace and order by providing volunteer males as nightly guards against looters and trouble makers. \n\nIn April 1942, Marcos Villa Agustin founded Marking's Guerrillas, and recruited heavily in Binangonan area. During the summer of 1942, the Rizal Cement Factory employees took action against the Japanese in the area. Led by Trinidad Diaz, the factory cashier and Home Guard lieutenant, they killed five Japanese, including a naval architect, and turned their launch over to Marking's Guerrillas. The Japanese took revenge, killing known resisters in the area, and torturing Diaz for 32 days, but she did not divulge the guerrilla's locations.\n\nMajor Teofilo Cenido was appointed mayor of the provost marshal of military police. Weapons available then were one Springfield Rifle and five Granadora from five USAFFE soldiers who escaped from Bataan.\n\nTalim Island was also subjected to Japanese sona. On August 7, 1942, bombs were dropped in the neighboring towns killing four in Janosa and claiming a number of casualties in Cardona. Suspected guerillas were brought to Santa Cruz, Laguna. Even the parish priest at that time, a Columbian Fr. Martin Strong, was held in Los Banos concentration camp.\n\nLate in 1944, the Makapilis identified mostly as Kapampangan's, a group of pro-Japanese Filipinos, occupied the convent and served as Japanese interpreters. They were instruments in the cruelties suffered by the Filipinos.\n\nIn January 1945, the Japanese took the convent from the Makapilis and put up their headquarters. But they only stayed there for one week, scared of the nightly apparitions of a white lady believed to be the ghost haunting the convent.\n\nMayor Emerenciano Unida was killed by the Japanese when he refused to reveal the guerrilla organization.\n\nWhen Filipino troops of the 4th and 42nd Infantry Division of the Philippine Commonwealth Army and 4th Infantry Regiment of the Philippine Constabulary was liberated and entering in Binangonan on 1945 with the recognized guerrillas of the Col Marking's guerrillas and ROTC Hunter guerillas to defeated and attacking Japanese Imperial forces and ended in World War II under the Japanese Occupation.\n\nBinangonan was liberated from the Japanese forces on February 25, 1945, the feast day of the patroness of the town, Santa Ursula. The Japanese' plan to burn the town was prevented by the timely arrival of combined American and Philippine Commonwealth army forces on the eve of the feast day. The local guerillas, with Major Ceñido deploying his men in Bunot Mountain, prevented the escape of Japanese forces. The Japanese peacefully retreated and pulled their forces out.\n\nThe liberation was quite peaceful for no fighting ever took place. It was also a glorious celebration as barrio folks rode on top of tanks and jeepneys with the soldiers of the combined Filipinos and Americans. People lined along the streets, jumping with glee, weeping tears of joy while shouting \"Victory\".\nThe American and Filipino military commander instructed the guerillas led by Major Ceñido to set up temporary headquarters in poblacion and to do surveillance work. When the combined Filipino and American troops proceeded to Angono, they left the command under the local Military Police, composed of all units in Binangonan.\n\nNapoleon Antazo, the town commander of the ROTC Hunter guerillas, was appointed mayor through the orders of the 43rd Infantry Division of the U.S. Army and the 4th and 42nd Infantry Division of the Philippine Commonwealth Army. Next to be appointed town mayor from 1945 to 1946 was Casimiro Ynares Sr., son of Don Jose Ynares. When the Philippines became a Republic in 1946, the municipal government was allowed greater autonomy.\n\nThe first mayor after World War II was Dr. Jose Pacis. Among his accomplishments were as follows.\n\n\nThrough the initiative of then Congressman, Gilberto M. Duavit, bestowed most of his Congressional funds for education and related structural facilities with the support of then Gov. Casimiro M. Ynares Jr., former Mayor Cesar M. Ynares and incumbent Mayor Boyet M. Ynares, Binangonan obtained the title as “The Education Center of Rizal.” This recognition was achieved by the existence of Rizal National Science High School, the University of Rizal System, and the Technical Education Skills Development Authority (TESDA) center, educational institutions that secure and offer quality education to Rizal's inhabitants where even the less fortunate can achieve quality education including technical and vocational knowledge.\n\nAs early as January 18, 2016, the town's Sangguniang Bayan approved Resolution No. 78, Series of 2016 requesting the Senate of the Philippines thru its president Franklin Drilon and the House of Representatives thru its speaker Feliciano Belmonte Jr. to co-sponsor a bill for Binangonan's conversion into a city and creation of a lone legislative district.\n\nBinangonan is bounded to the north-northwest by Angono, the north-northeast by Teresa and Morong, and to the east by Cardona. It is divided between two regions, the mainland and the insular areas. The mainland is on the western side of the Morong Peninsula, and is characterized by small steep hills surrounded by lowlands. It is cut off by an escarpment to the east, which forms the boundary with Cardona. Short streams predominantly drain westward into Laguna de Bay.\n\nTalim Island contains a narrow coastal plain that readily ascends into its mountainous interior, with Mount Tagapo (438 m) as its highest peak. It is separated from the mainland by the 240-m Diablo pass.\n\nBinangonan features two climate types under the Köppen-Geiger climate classification: tropical monsoon with a short dry season and a prolonged wet season, and tropical savanna with more pronounced wet and dry season. The dry season runs from January through April while the wet season covers the remaining eight months of the year. Binangonan is consistently hot throughout the year, usually reaching its highest temperatures just before the onset of the monsoon. The town's coolest temperatures are typically experienced at night during the earliest portions of the dry season. Temperatures are relatively constant throughout the year with the average high of about and an average low of about .\n\nBinangonan is politically subdivided into 40 barangays, of which 23 are on the mainland and 17 are island barangays.\nIn the , the population of Binangonan, was people, with a density of .\n\nBinangonan's major source of income comes from agriculture, where 49 percent of its total land area are devoted to agriculture and livestock industries, while the source of income of residents in its coastal barangays are mainly artisanal fishing and the aquaculture industry. Binangonan is a major supplier of freshwater fishes from Laguna de Bay like dulong, ayungin, biya, kanduli, and gurami to Metro Manila, Laguna, Cavite and Batangas. A research station of the Southeast Asian Fisheries Development Center is located at Tapao Point in Barangay Pipindan.\n\nThe municipality formerly hosted the Rizal Cement plant in Calumpang and its associated quarry. This plant was the oldest in the Philippines, established in 1914 by Augustinians and eventually acquired by Vicente Madrigal. A limestone quarry in Pantok supplied the plant through a cable car system. The plant was shut down in 2000 and subsequently transformed into a subdivision.\n\nOther sources of income come from manufacturing, commercial establishments, real estate, and public utility services.\n\nBinangonan's economy remained docile for almost four decades, subsisting only with fair performance in the aquaculture and agricultural ventures with no new developments in-place to create job opportunities in the commercial sector. Tourism industry's growth remains to be seen in the long-term. Industries relative interests to the town has to be developed and the corresponding infrastructure must be funded and implemented accordingly to create and sustain future development.\nOverall expectations to encourage investment must be prioritized rather than enticing the growth of informal settlers (squatters) in the area which was perceived by many to be more of strategic political undertakings.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBarangay Health Centers are present in all 40 barangays\n\nThe Department of Education operates 36 elementary and 9 secondary schools in the municipality. A campus of the University of Rizal System is present. A Technical Education Skills Development Authority (TESDA) center established in the municipality provides technical and vocational courses. Over 50 private schools are also found within the municipality,\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080391", "title": "Lifeline Express", "text": "Lifeline Express\n\nThe Lifeline Express, or Jeevan Rekha Express, is a hospital train that runs in India that started running on 16 July 1991. It was a collaboration between the Impact India Foundation (IIF), Indian Railways (IR) and the Health Ministry. The train is funded by IIF, international charitable sources, Indian corporations and individuals. The train has made a health impact both in India, as well as around the world where it has inspired similar initiatives.\n\nThe Lifeline Express was started to provide on-the-spot diagnostic, medical and advanced surgical treatment for preventive and curative interventions for disabled adults and children. It is an outreach program for inaccessible rural areas where medical services are not available, traveling via Indian Railways. In addition to providing access to these much needed services, the Lifeline express seeks to improve the efficiency of the existing local government and voluntary health infrastructure and services, as well as providing initiative and encouragement for the local bodies to get involved in all aspects of the programme and provide follow-up services after the train has left.\n\nThe Lifeline Express went on its maiden journey on 16 July 1991. Three coaches were donated by IR, and the equipment from Impact India Foundation. Impact India Foundation is the Indian branch of a non-profit organisation based in seven countries around the world, with its Indian headquarters in Mumbai. Impact India still runs the trains with help from IR and corporate and private donors.\n\nAfter 16 years of work (93 projects in different parts of India) from the Lifeline Express, IR provided the Lifeline Express with five new coaches, for the new and improved Jeevan Rekha Express. There was just one operation theater in the old one; however according to the CEO of the Lifeline Express Dr. Rajnish Gourh the operation theatres would be doubled now. The rest of the setup remains same.\n\nIndian Railways built upon its experience operating the Lifeline Express during the COVID-19 pandemic in India, when it converted sleeper cars into isolation wards for coronavirus patients.\n\nThe Lifeline Express provides a number of medical services including\n\nThe train visits different parts of the country, usually rural areas with insufficient Health Care facilities, or areas hit by natural disasters, etc., and stays in each place for 21 to 25 days while medical care (routine as well as major surgery) is provided to the local people. The train which was started in 1991 is still operating.\n\nThe Lifeline Express train is formed of specially-designed air-conditioned coaches. In 2007 Indian Railways provided five new coaches for the service. The first coach is a power car which also has a staff compartment and pantry area. The staff compartment is situated at the rear with a 12-berth staff-quarter, kitchen unit, water purifier, a gas stove and electric oven and refrigerator. The second coach consists of the medical store, as well as two autoclave units. It also houses a drawing room. The train has a main Operation Theatre with three operating tables and a second self-contained operating theatre with two tables. In the main theatre, each table has its own set of anesthetic equipment, shadow lights, Boyles apparatus with Halothane vapourisers and imported Carl Zeiss microscope, multi-purpose monitor, defibrillator, diathermy cautery machine, anesthesia ventilator. The theatres are equipped with a closed circuit television camera which is used in providing training to local doctors in live surgical procedures. An attached six bed recovery room is situated beside the main theatre.\n\nAdditionally, the train has an ophthalmologic testing room, a dental unit, a laboratory, an X-ray unit and an auditorium with a large LCD display unit. The train also has a public address system and closed-circuit TV.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080392", "title": "Hakaniemi metro station", "text": "Hakaniemi metro station\n\nHakaniemi metro station (, ) is a station on the Helsinki Metro. It serves the central Helsinki districts of Hakaniemi and Kallio. Both lines M1 and M2 serve Hakaniemi. There are 28 bicycle parking spaces at the station.\n\nOpened on 1 June 1982, Hakaniemi was among the first metro stations opened in Helsinki. It was designed by Mirja Castrén, Juhani Jauhiainen, and Marja Nuuttila. It is located 900 meters from the University of Helsinki station, and 900 meters from Sörnäinen metro station. The station is situated at a depth of 23 meters below ground level and 21 meters below sea level.\n\nThe Hakaniemi metro station was seen in Aki Kaurismäki's film Calamari Union. Hakaniemi metro station was also featured in Bomfunk MC's music video for the hit single \"Freestyler\".\n"}
{"id": "2080395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080395", "title": "Westercon", "text": "Westercon\n\nWestercon (occasionally WesterCon; long version West Coast Science Fantasy Conference) is a regional science fiction and fantasy convention founded in September 1948 by Walter J. Daugherty of the Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society. The original full name was West Coast Scienti-Fantasy Conference.\n\nThe location of Westercon each year is determined by a bid and voting process by the convention's members. Sites are selected two years in advance. Acceptable locations are cites on the continent of North America, west of the 104th meridian west, or in the state of Hawaii. (Sites in Australia would be eligible as well if either Australia or the United States were to annex the other, as a consequence of a whimsical provision added to the convention's bylaws in 1998 at the suggestion of Down Under Fan Fund delegate Terry Frost. Although this provision may have little practical effect, an attempt to repeal it at the 2003 Westercon Business Meeting failed.)\n\nGuests of Honor are traditionally chosen to showcase professionals who reside in the Westercon region. Given that there are hundreds of potential honorees, it is preferred that guests are chosen that have not been guests of honor at a previous Westercon.\n\nWestercon is traditionally four days long, and is traditionally held on a weekend adjacent to or including the American Independence Day holiday.\n\nThe name \"Westercon\" is a service mark of the Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society, and LASFS retains certain responsibilities regarding Westercon site selection and provisions in case of the failure of a Westercon committee. In practice, Westercon is left to organize itself, with each year's committee acting independently and in its own name, with the general organization (primarily rules for site selection and self-governance) managed through the convention's Bylaws and a Business Meeting (open to all members) held at each Westercon.\n\nThrough the years several events and activities are traditionally held at Westercon. These events are common to most science fiction and fantasy conventions. Westercon is traditionally four days long; however, due to it traditionally being held near the American Independence Day holiday, the actual days of the week on which it is held vary from year to year, and this can affect the precise timing of events.\n\nWestercon traditionally includes those functions that other general science fiction and fantasy conventions have, including programming on a variety of subjects related to science fiction, fantasy, and fandom. Westercon also includes an art show and a dealers room.\n\nThe First Night Icebreaker or \"Meet the Guests\" event is held on the first evening of programming to allow an informal setting for members to meet the professional attendees of the convention. Mike Glyer introduced the ice cream social as a convention icebreaker in 1978 — borrowing it from Loscon — but it has not been a part of every convention.\n\nA costume contest called a Masquerade is typically held on the second night sometimes of the convention (or sometimes on Saturday night, regardless of when the convention started).\n\nA Regency dance has been a staple for many years, with a rock and roll dance being held as well at least one night of the convention.\n\nBecause Westercon members vote on where the Westercon two years hence will be held, site selection voting is generally open on the first and second days of the convention, with the results announced on the third day.\n\nA Business Meeting at which all members of Westercon may propose, debate, and vote upon changes to the convention's bylaws is usually on the second day of the convention, and, if necessary, also on the third day to deal with issues not resolved at the first meeting.\n\nIn the evenings, groups host parties for various reasons. Some are promoting other conventions or bids for future Westercons or Worldcons. Others are publicizing groups or clubs and many are just for fun.\n\nA group of attendees who ran a portable bookstore at the convention went on to found The Other Change of Hobbit in Berkeley, California, in 1977.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080403", "title": "Summerhill, Toronto", "text": "Summerhill, Toronto\n\nSummerhill is a neighbourhood in central Toronto, Ontario, Canada, located north of Downtown Toronto.\n\nIt was named after Summer Hill house, built in 1842 by Canadian transportation magnate Charles Thompson. Much of the area was once part of the original Thompson estate but was subdivided for development during the following decades.\n\nDuring the 1880s, the North Toronto railway station was established on Yonge Street, and the neighbourhood of Summerhill quickly developed around it. The railway station was rebuilt in 1916 in honour of a visit by the Prince of Wales (later King Edward VIII). The neighbourhood underwent very little growth after the railway station closed in 1931, but it was revitalized by the launch of the Summerhill subway station in 1954.\n\nThe railway station from 1916 still exists, and it currently serves as a LCBO outlet. The station, along with the still-operational Canadian Pacific Railway bridge, is a landmark of the neighbourhood. As part of the provincial government's \"MoveOntario 2020\" programme, plans were being considered to return the building to its original use as a train station, serving a planned GO Transit Crosstown line.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080406", "title": "East Ferris", "text": "East Ferris\n\nEast Ferris is a township in northeastern Ontario, Canada located between Trout Lake and Lake Nosbonsing in the District of Nipissing. West Ferris has long been annexed into the city of North Bay.\n\nThe main communities within East Ferris are Astorville and Corbeil. There are also smaller residential areas in the township, known as Derland Road and Lake Nosbonsing.\n\nIn July 2005, Astorville hosted the first Northern Ontario Ball Hockey Championship. In November 2005, Astorville was one of nine communities that voted on whether to accept private funding for a health centre.\n\nCorbeil is located on the La Vase River, at a turn in Highway 94 south of its terminus at Highway 17. The township's municipal office and fire station is located in Corbeil on Highway 94 south of Voyer Road.\n\nMany residents who live in East Ferris, commute back and forth to the City of North Bay for work and for shopping.\n\nThe township's public library is located in Astorville.\n\nThe township holds an annual winter carnival, as well as town picnics in the summer.\n\nAstorville is home to the Nosbonsing Curling Club.\n\nCanadian cartoonist Lynn Johnston lived and worked in Corbeil until she moved to North Vancouver in 2015.\n\nThe Dionne quintuplets were born on a farm near Corbeil. Corbeil was also the home of Marie-Louise Meilleur, a supercentenarian who was 117 years old when she died in 1998. She was the oldest living person in the world for the eight months preceding her death, and remains both the oldest verified person in Canadian history and the fourth oldest verified person in the world. She lived at the Nipissing Manor Nursing Home, which was once the mansion that housed the Dionne sisters.\n\nIn the 2011 Census, Statistics Canada originally reported that the Township of East Ferris had a population of 4,512 living in 1,699 of its 1,883 total dwellings, a 1.8% change from its 2006 population of 4,228. Statistics Canada subsequently amended the 2011 census results to a population of 4,766 living in 1,802 of its 2,081 total dwellings, a 12.7% change from 2006. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080408", "title": "Abie's Irish Rose", "text": "Abie's Irish Rose\n\nAbie's Irish Rose is a popular comedy by Anne Nichols familiar from stage productions, films and radio programs. The basic premise involves an Irish Catholic girl and a young Jewish man who marry despite the objections of their families.\n\nAlthough initially receiving poor reviews, the Broadway play was a commercial hit, running for 2,327 performances between May 23, 1922, and October 1, 1927, at the time the longest run in Broadway theater history, surpassing the record 1,291 performances set by the Winchell Smith and Frank Bacon 1918 play, \"Lightnin'\". The show's touring company had a similarly long run and held the record for longest running touring company for nearly 40 years until the record was broken by \"Hello, Dolly!\" in the 1960s. The touring company's male lead was played by a young George Brent, the future Hollywood actor's first major role, and the female lead was played by Peggy Parry.\n\n\"Abie's Irish Rose\" was revived on Broadway in 1937 and again in an updated version in 1954. \n\nThe play was twice the inspiration for films: in 1928 with Charles \"Buddy\" Rogers and Nancy Carroll, directed by Victor Fleming, and in 1946 with Richard Norris and Joanne Dru, directed by A. Edward Sutherland. The 1946 version, produced by Bing Crosby, met with considerable published controversy.\n\nIt inspired the weekly NBC radio series, Abie's Irish Rose, which replaced \"Knickerbocker Playhouse\" and ran from January 24, 1942, through September 2, 1944. Faced with listener protests about its stereotyped ethnic portrayals, the radio series was cancelled in 1945. Nichols wrote the scripts. Axel Gruenbert and Joe Rines directed the cast that starred Richard Bond, Sydney Smith, Richard Coogan and Clayton \"Bud\" Collyer as Abie Levy. Betty Winkler, Mercedes McCambridge, Julie Stevens, Bernard Gorcey, and Marion Shockley portrayed Rosemary Levy. Solomon Levy was played by Alfred White, Charlie Cantor and Alan Reed.\n\nOthers in the radio cast: Walter Kinsella (as Patrick Murphy), Menasha Skulnik (Isaac Cohen), Anna Appel (Mrs. Cohen), Ann Thomas (Casey), Bill Adams (Father Whelan), Amanda Randolph (maid) and Dolores Gillenas (the Levys' twins). The announcer was Howard Petrie, and Joe Stopak provided the music. The opening theme music was \"My Wild Irish Rose\" by Chauncey Olcott.\n\nThe basic premise was extensively copied, and Anne Nichols sued one imitator, Universal Pictures, which produced \"The Cohens and Kellys\", a motion picture play about an Irish boy who marries a Jewish girl from feuding families. However, in \"Nichols v. Universal Pictures Corp.\", the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit found for the defendant, holding that copyright protection cannot be extended to the characteristics of stock characters in a story, whether it be a book, play or film.\n\nNichols' original Broadway play had the couple meeting in France during World War I, with the young man having been a soldier and the girl a nurse who had tended to him. In Nichols’ version, the priest and the rabbi from the wedding are also veterans of the same war, and recognize one another from their time in the service.\n\nThe rest of the plot was summarized by Judge Learned Hand, in his opinion in the copyright lawsuit filed by Nichols:\n\nThere have been some variations of the plot, as to setting, or how the characters meet, in later versions of the play or in adaptations for film.\n\nAlthough the play was a tremendous popular success, it was universally loathed by the critics. Robert Benchley, then the theatre critic for \"Life\" magazine, nursed a particular hatred for it. Part of Benchley's job was to write capsule reviews each week. \"Abie's Irish Rose\" he described variously as \"Something Awful\", \"Just about as low as good clean fun can get\", \"Showing that the Jews and the Irish crack equally old jokes\", \"The comic spirit of 1876\", \"People laugh at this every night, which explains why democracy can never be a success\", \"Will the Marines never come?\" and finally \"Hebrews 13:8,\" a Biblical passage that reads, “Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, and today, and forever.” He also held a contest for an outsider to contribute the capsule review, which Harpo Marx won with \"No worse than a bad cold.\" \n\nWriting in \"The New Yorker\" of its 1937 revival, Wolcott Gibbs said that \"it had, in fact, the rather eerie quality of a repeated nightmare; the one, perhaps, in which I always find myself in an old well, thick with bats, and can't get out.\" \n\nThe Anti-Defamation League protested the use of Jewish stereotypes in the 1946 film version, claiming it \"will reinforce, if it does not actually create, greater doubt and keener misconceptions, as well as outright prejudice.\"\n\nReflecting on the play's message of social tolerance, Brooks Atkinson wrote about the 1954 revival, \"What was a comic strip joke in 1922 is a serious problem today. Every now and then \"Abie's Irish Rose\" strikes a sensitive chord. For good will is in shorter supply now than it was thirty-two years ago.\"\n\nContemporary scholar Jordan Schildcrout reads \"Abie's Irish Rose\" in relation to rising anxieties about immigration during the 1920s, as well as to current events such as the establishment of the Irish Free State (1921), the British Mandate for Palestine (1922), and the restrictive Immigration Act of 1924. He writes, \"In an era when anti-Jewish and anti-Irish sentiments were prominent, the play's representation of ethnic pride might have empowered audiences, while also offering them a happy fantasy of belonging and becoming increasingly 'American,' and therefore not subject to the old prejudices and ethnic rivalries.\"\n\nLorenz Hart expressed the feeling of many in the theater world in these lines for \"Manhattan\": \"Our future babies we'll take to \"Abie's Irish Rose\" -- I hope they'll live to see it close.\" \n\nThe play was popular enough for its title to be referenced in a pun in the Marx Brothers film \"Animal Crackers\", in the lyrics of the Cole Porter song \"Ace in the Hole\", the Stephen Sondheim song \"I'm Still Here\", and the song \"The Legacy\" from the musical \"On the Twentieth Century\".\n\n\"Abie's Irish Rose\" prefigured the comedy of Stiller and Meara, a husband-and-wife team (Jerry Stiller and Anne Meara), who often spiked their routines with references to their differing backgrounds (Stiller is Jewish; Meara was of an Irish Catholic background but converted to Judaism later during their marriage).\n\nThe play also provided the central premise for the 1972–73 television series \"Bridget Loves Bernie\" (CBS), which starred Meredith Baxter and David Birney (who later became husband and wife in real life) in a kind-of reversal of \"Abie's Irish Rose\" in that Birney played struggling young Jewish cab driver/aspiring playwright Bernie Steinberg, whose parents ran a modest family delicatessen, and Baxter played Irish Catholic daughter of wealthy parents, Bridget Fitzgerald, who falls in love with and elopes with Steinberg to the disappointment of both sets of parents. (Although both actors were Protestant, the casting partially inverted real life, Birney being of Irish descent.) The show was attacked by a broad range of Jewish groups for allegedly promoting inter-faith marriage, and it was cancelled at the end of its first season, despite being the fifth-highest-rated serial of the 1972–1973 year on USA broadcast television.\n\nBut two decades later, with social attitudes changing in the USA, CBS would run another television series, \"Brooklyn Bridge\" (1991–1993), the quasi-autobiographical childhood memoir of its Jewish series creator, Gary David Goldberg, which featured a continuing romance between two main (teenage) characters, a Jewish boy and an Irish Catholic girl. It ran two seasons, with the sixth (two-part) episode of the first season, titled \"War of the Worlds\", exploring the tensions of this inter-faith relationship in its mid-1950s Brooklyn fictional setting. (Goldberg had previously created another quasi-autobiographical television series, \"Family Ties\", inspired by his adult life, in which the female lead, the alter-ego of his real-life Irish Catholic partner, had been portrayed by Meredith Baxter, the same actress who had starred in the ill-fated \"Bridget Loves Bernie\".)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080421", "title": "Ahmet Yalçınkaya", "text": "Ahmet Yalçınkaya\n\nAhmet Yalçınkaya (born December 1963) is a Turkish poet and academician.\n\nBorn in Giresun, Turkey, and grew up in Germany. Has studied Engineering, Robotics, management and business at various universities in Turkey, USA, Uzbekistan and Sweden. He lived in Europe, Turkey, and Central Asia. Lives and works today in Turkmenistan, and continues his studies, research, and teachings in Sweden.\n\nHis poems, essays, letters, interviews, poetry translations have been published by newspapers and journals like Zaman, Al-Ahram Weekly, Impact, Avaz, Harman, Das Licht, Maveran, Yosh Kuch, Kiragi, Endulus, Poezia, Carmina Balcanica and others in Turkey, Germany, England, Egypt, Romania and Uzbekistan. Has been awarded with several prizes. Has represented Kiragi (Hoarfrost) Poetry Journal in Istanbul (1995–97). Has taken part in the editorial board of the literary journal Endulus (Andalusia) (1997–98). Edited and published for a short time (1995) the literary journal Mevsim (The Season).\n\nSome of his poems have been translated into languages such as English, Uzbek, Arabic, Tamil, Turkmen language, Azerbaijani, Romanian, German, and published abroad.\n\n\nIn addition to the above literary works, has also works in technical and management fields.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080429", "title": "Human tooth development", "text": "Human tooth development\n\nTooth development or odontogenesis is the complex process by which teeth form from embryonic cells, grow, and erupt into the mouth. For human teeth to have a healthy oral environment, all parts of the tooth must develop during appropriate stages of fetal development. Primary (baby) teeth start to form between the sixth and eighth week of prenatal development, and permanent teeth begin to form in the twentieth week. If teeth do not start to develop at or near these times, they will not develop at all, resulting in hypodontia or anodontia.\n\nA significant amount of research has focused on determining the processes that initiate tooth development. It is widely accepted that there is a factor within the tissues of the first pharyngeal arch that is necessary for the development of teeth.\n\nThe tooth germ is an aggregation of cells that eventually forms a tooth. These cells are derived from the ectoderm of the first pharyngeal arch and the ectomesenchyme of the neural crest. The tooth germ is organized into three parts: the enamel organ, the dental papilla and the dental sac or follicle.\n\nThe \"enamel organ \" is composed of the outer enamel epithelium, inner enamel epithelium, stellate reticulum and stratum intermedium. These cells give rise to ameloblasts, which produce enamel and become a part of the reduced enamel epithelium (REE) after maturation of the enamel. The location where the outer enamel epithelium and inner enamel epithelium join is called the cervical loop. The growth of cervical loop cells into the deeper tissues forms Hertwig Epithelial Root Sheath, which determines the root shape of the tooth. During tooth development there are strong similarities between keratinization and amelogenesis. Keratin is also present in epithelial cells of tooth germ and a thin film of keratin is present on a recently erupted tooth (Nasmyth's membrane or enamel cuticle).\n\nThe \"dental papilla\" contains cells that develop into odontoblasts, which are dentin-forming cells. Additionally, the junction between the dental papilla and inner enamel epithelium determines the crown shape of a tooth. Mesenchymal cells within the dental papilla are responsible for formation of tooth pulp.\n\nThe \"dental sac or follicle\" gives rise to three important entities: cementoblasts, osteoblasts, and fibroblasts. Cementoblasts form the cementum of a tooth. Osteoblasts give rise to the alveolar bone around the roots of teeth. Fibroblasts are involved developing the periodontal ligament which connect teeth to the alveolar bone through cementum.\n\nNGF-R is present in the condensing ectomesenchymal cells of the dental papilla in the early cap stage tooth germ and plays multiple roles during morphogenetic and cytodifferentiation events in the tooth. There is a relationship between tooth agenesis and absence of the peripheral trigeminal nerve (see Hypodontia).\n\nAll stages (bud, cap, bell, crown), growth and morphogenesis of the teeth are regulated by a protein called sonic hedgehog.\n\nVarious phenotypic inputs modulate the size of the teeth.\n\nParathyroid hormone is required for tooth eruption.\n\nThe following tables present the development timeline of human teeth. Times for the initial calcification of primary teeth are for weeks \"in utero\". Abbreviations: wk = weeks; mo = months; yr = years.\n\nTooth development is commonly divided into the following stages: the initiation stage, the bud stage, the cap stage, the bell stage, and finally maturation. The staging of tooth development is an attempt to categorize changes that take place along a continuum; frequently it is difficult to decide what stage should be assigned to a particular developing tooth. This determination is further complicated by the varying appearance of different histologic sections of the same developing tooth, which can appear to be different stages.\n\nOne of the earliest signs in the formation of a tooth that can be seen microscopically is the distinction between the vestibular lamina and the dental lamina. It occurs in the sixth to seventh week of the embryonic life. The dental lamina connects the developing tooth bud to the epithelial layer of the mouth for a significant time. This is regarded as the initiation stage.\n\nThe bud stage is characterized by the appearance of a tooth bud without a clear arrangement of cells. The stage technically begins once epithelial cells proliferate into the ectomesenchyme of the jaw. Typically, this occurs when the fetus is around 8 weeks old. The tooth bud itself is the group of cells at the periphery of the dental lamina.\n\nAlong with the formation of the dental lamina, 10 round epithelial structures, each referred to as a bud, develop at the distal aspect of the dental lamina of each arch. These correspond to the 10 primary teeth of each dental arch, and they signify the bud stage of tooth development. Each bud is separated from the ectomesenchyme by a basement membrane. Ectomesenchymal cells congregate deep to the bud, forming a cluster of cells, which is the initiation of the condensation of the ectomesenchyme. The remaining ectomesenchymal cells are arranged in a more or less haphazardly uniform fashion.\n\nThe first signs of an arrangement of cells in the tooth bud occur in the cap stage. A small group of ectomesenchymal cells stops producing extracellular substances, which results in an aggregation of these cells called the dental papilla. At this point, the tooth bud grows around the ectomesenchymal aggregation, taking on the appearance of a cap, and becomes the enamel (or dental) organ covering the dental papilla. A condensation of ectomesenchymal cells called the dental sac or follicle surrounds the enamel organ and limits the dental papilla. Eventually, the enamel organ will produce enamel, the dental papilla will produce dentin and pulp, and the dental sac will produce all the supporting structures of a tooth, the periodontium.\n\nThe bell stage is known for the histodifferentiation and morphodifferentiation that takes place. The dental organ is bell-shaped during this stage, and the majority of its cells are called stellate reticulum because of their star-shaped appearance. The bell stage is divided into the \"early bell stage\" and the \"late bell stage\". Cells on the periphery of the enamel organ separate into four important layers. Cuboidal cells on the periphery of the dental organ are known as outer enamel epithelium (OEE). The columnar cells of the enamel organ adjacent to the enamel papilla are known as inner enamel epithelium (IEE). The cells between the IEE and the stellate reticulum form a layer known as the stratum intermedium. The rim of the enamel organ where the outer and inner enamel epithelium join is called the \"cervical loop\".\n\nIn summary, the layers in order of innermost to outermost consist of dentin, enamel (formed by IEE, or 'ameloblasts', as they move outwards/upwards), inner enamel epithelium and stratum intermedium (stratified cells that support the synthetic activity of the inner enamel epithelium) What follows is part of the initial 'enamel organ', the center of which is made up of stellate reticulum cells that serve to protect the enamel organ. This is all encased by the OEE layer.\n\nOther events occur during the bell stage. The dental lamina disintegrates, leaving the developing teeth completely separated from the epithelium of the oral cavity; the two will not join again until the final eruption of the tooth into the mouth.\n\nThe crown of the tooth, which is influenced by the shape of the inner enamel epithelium, also takes shape during this stage. Throughout the mouth, all teeth undergo this same process; it is still uncertain why teeth form various crown shapes—for instance, incisors versus canines. There are two dominant hypotheses. The \"field model\" proposes there are components for each type of tooth shape found in the ectomesenchyme during tooth development. The components for particular types of teeth, such as incisors, are localized in one area and dissipate rapidly in different parts of the mouth. Thus, for example, the \"incisor field\" has factors that develop teeth into incisor shape, and this field is concentrated in the central incisor area, but decreases rapidly in the canine area.\n\nThe other dominant hypothesis, the \"clone model\", proposes that the epithelium programs a group of ectomesenchymal cells to generate teeth of particular shapes. This group of cells, called a clone, coaxes the dental lamina into tooth development, causing a tooth bud to form. Growth of the dental lamina continues in an area called the \"progress zone\". Once the progress zone travels a certain distance from the first tooth bud, a second tooth bud will start to develop. These two models are not necessarily mutually exclusive, nor does widely accepted dental science consider them to be so: it is postulated that both models influence tooth development at different times.\n\nOther structures that may appear in a developing tooth in this stage are enamel knots, enamel cords, and enamel niche.\n\nHard tissues, including enamel and dentin, develop during the next stage of tooth development. This stage is called the crown, or maturation stage, by some researchers. Important cellular changes occur at this time. In prior stages, all of the IEE cells were dividing to increase the overall size of the tooth bud, but rapid dividing, called mitosis, stops during the crown stage at the location where the cusps of the teeth form. The first mineralized hard tissues form at this location. At the same time, the IEE cells change in shape from cuboidal to columnar and become preameloblasts. The nuclei of these cells move closer to the stratum intermedium and away from the dental papilla as they become polarized.\n\nThe adjacent layer of cells in the dental papilla suddenly increases in size and differentiates into odontoblasts, which are the cells that form dentin. Researchers believe that the odontoblasts would not form if it were not for the changes occurring in the IEE. As the changes to the IEE and the formation of odontoblasts continue from the tips of the cusps, the odontoblasts secrete a substance, an organic matrix, into their immediate surrounding. The organic matrix contains the material needed for dentin formation. As odontoblasts deposit organic matrix termed predentin, they migrate toward the center of the dental papilla. Thus, unlike enamel, dentin starts forming in the surface closest to the outside of the tooth and proceeds inward. Cytoplasmic extensions are left behind as the odontoblasts move inward. The unique, tubular microscopic appearance of dentin is a result of the formation of dentin around these extensions.\n\nAfter dentin formation begins, the cells of the IEE secrete an organic matrix against the dentin. This matrix immediately mineralizes and becomes the initial layer of the tooth's enamel. Outside the dentin are the newly formed ameloblasts in response to the formation of dentin, which are cells that continue the process of enamel formation; therefore, enamel formation moves outwards, adding new material to the outer surface of the developing tooth.\n\nEnamel formation is called amelogenesis and occurs in the crown stage (advanced bell stage) of tooth development. \"Reciprocal induction\" governs the relationship between the formation of dentin and enamel; dentin formation must always occur before enamel formation. Generally, enamel formation occurs in two stages: the secretory and maturation stages. Proteins and an organic matrix form a partially mineralized enamel in the secretory stage; the maturation stage completes enamel mineralization.\n\nIn the secretory stage, ameloblasts release enamel proteins that contribute to the enamel matrix, which is then partially mineralized by the enzyme alkaline phosphatase. This mineralized phase occurs very early around the 3rd or 4th month of pregnancy. This marks the first appearance of enamel in the body. Ameloblasts make enamel at the location of where the cusps of the teeth are located. Enamel grows outwards, away from the center of the tooth.\n\nIn the maturation stage, the ameloblasts transport some of the substances used in enamel formation out of the enamel. Thus, the function of ameloblasts changes from enamel production, as occurs in the secretory stage, to transportation of substances. Most of the materials transported by ameloblasts in this stage are proteins used to complete mineralization. The important proteins involved are amelogenins, ameloblastins, enamelins, and tuftelins. By the end of this stage, the enamel has completed its mineralization.\n\nA residue may form on newly erupted teeth of both dentitions that may leave the teeth extrinsically stained. This green-gray residue, Nasmyth membrane, consists of the fused tissue of the reduced enamel epithelium and oral epithelium, as well as the dental cuticle placed by the ameloblasts on the newly formed outer enamel surface. Nasmyth membrane then easily picks up stain from food debris and is hard to remove except by selective polishing. The child's supervising adults may need reassurance that it is only an extrinsic stain on a child's newly erupted teeth.\n\nPatients with osteopetrosis display enamel abnormalities, suggesting that the a3 gene mutation found in V-ATPases also plays a role in the development of hypomineralized and hypoplastic enamel.\n\nDentin formation, known as dentinogenesis, is the first identifiable feature in the crown stage of tooth development. The formation of dentin must always occur before the formation of enamel. The different stages of dentin formation result in different types of dentin: mantle dentin, primary dentin, secondary dentin, and tertiary dentin.\n\nOdontoblasts, the dentin-forming cells, differentiate from cells of the dental papilla. They begin secreting an organic matrix around the area directly adjacent to the inner enamel epithelium, closest to the area of the future cusp of a tooth. The organic matrix contains collagen fibers with large diameters (0.1–0.2 μm in diameter). The odontoblasts begin to move toward the center of the tooth, forming an extension called the odontoblast process. Thus, dentin formation proceeds toward the inside of the tooth. The odontoblast process causes the secretion of hydroxyapatite crystals and mineralization of the matrix. This area of mineralization is known as mantle dentin and is a layer usually about 150 μm thick.\n\nWhereas mantle dentin forms from the preexisting ground substance of the dental papilla, primary dentin forms through a different process. Odontoblasts increase in size, eliminating the availability of any extracellular resources to contribute to an organic matrix for mineralization. Additionally, the larger odontoblasts cause collagen to be secreted in smaller amounts, which results in more tightly arranged, heterogeneous nucleation that is used for mineralization. Other materials (such as lipids, phosphoproteins, and phospholipids) are also secreted.\n\nSecondary dentin is formed after root formation is finished and occurs at a much slower rate. It is not formed at a uniform rate along the tooth, but instead forms faster along sections closer to the crown of a tooth. This development continues throughout life and accounts for the smaller areas of pulp found in older individuals. Tertiary dentin, also known as reparative dentin, forms in reaction to stimuli, such as attrition or dental caries.\n\nCementum formation is called cementogenesis and occurs late in the development of teeth. Cementoblasts are the cells responsible for cementogenesis. Two types of cementum form: cellular and acellular.\n\nAcellular cementum forms first. The cementoblasts differentiate from follicular cells, which can only reach the surface of the tooth's root once Hertwig's Epithelial Root Sheath (HERS) has begun to deteriorate. The cementoblasts secrete fine collagen fibrils along the root surface at right angles before migrating away from the tooth. As the cementoblasts move, more collagen is deposited to lengthen and thicken the bundles of fibers. Noncollagenous proteins, such as bone sialoprotein and osteocalcin, are also secreted. Acellular cementum contains a secreted matrix of proteins and fibers. As mineralization takes place, the cementoblasts move away from the cementum, and the fibers left along the surface eventually join the forming periodontal ligaments.\n\nCellular cementum develops after most of the tooth formation is complete and after the tooth occludes (in contact) with a tooth in the opposite arch. This type of cementum forms around the fiber bundles of the periodontal ligaments. The cementoblasts forming cellular cementum become trapped in the cementum they produce.\n\nThe origin of the formative cementoblasts is believed to be different for cellular cementum and acellular cementum. One of the major current hypotheses is that cells producing cellular cementum migrate from the adjacent area of bone, while cells producing acellular cementum arise from the dental follicle. Nonetheless, it is known that cellular cementum is usually not found in teeth with one root. In premolars and molars, cellular cementum is found only in the part of the root closest to the apex and in interradicular areas between multiple roots.\n\nThe periodontium, which is the supporting structure of a tooth, consists of the cementum, periodontal ligaments, gingiva, and alveolar bone. Cementum is the only one of these that is a part of a tooth. Alveolar bone surrounds the roots of teeth to provide support and creates what is commonly called a \"socket\". Periodontal ligaments connect the alveolar bone to the cementum, and the gingiva is the surrounding tissue visible in the mouth.\n\nCells from the dental follicle give rise to the periodontal ligament (PDL). Specific events leading to the formation of the periodontal ligament vary between deciduous (baby) and permanent teeth and among various species of animals. Nonetheless, formation of the periodontal ligament begins with ligament fibroblasts from the dental follicle. These fibroblasts secrete collagen, which interacts with fibers on the surfaces of adjacent bone and cementum.\n\nThis interaction leads to an attachment that develops as the tooth erupts into the mouth. The occlusion, which is the arrangement of teeth and how teeth in opposite arches come in contact with one another, continually affects the formation of periodontal ligament. This perpetual creation of periodontal ligament leads to the formation of groups of fibers in different orientations, such as horizontal and oblique fibers.\n\nAs root and cementum formation begin, bone is created in the adjacent area. Throughout the body, cells that form bone are called osteoblasts. In the case of alveolar bone, these osteoblast cells form from the dental follicle. Similar to the formation of primary cementum, collagen fibers are created on the surface nearest the tooth, and they remain there until attaching to periodontal ligaments.\n\nLike any other bone in the human body, alveolar bone is modified throughout life. Osteoblasts create bone and osteoclasts destroy it, especially if force is placed on a tooth. As is the case when movement of teeth is attempted through orthodontics using bands, wires, or appliances, an area of bone under compressive force from a tooth moving toward it has a high osteoclast level, resulting in bone resorption. An area of bone receiving tension from periodontal ligaments attached to a tooth moving away from it has a high number of osteoblasts, resulting in bone formation. Thus, the tooth or teeth are slowly moved along the jaw so as to achieve a dentition that works in harmony. In this way, the width of the space between the alveoli and the root is kept about the same.\n\nThe connection between the gingiva and the tooth is called the dentogingival junction. This junction has three epithelial types: gingival, sulcular, and junctional epithelium. These three types form from a mass of epithelial cells known as the epithelial cuff between the tooth and the mouth.\n\nMuch about gingival formation is not fully understood, but it is known that hemidesmosomes form between the gingival epithelium and the tooth and are responsible for the \"primary epithelial attachment\". Hemidesmosomes provide anchorage between cells through small filament-like structures provided by the remnants of ameloblasts. Once this occurs, junctional epithelium forms from reduced enamel epithelium, one of the products of the enamel organ, and divides rapidly. This results in the perpetually increasing size of the junctional epithelial layer and the isolation of the remnants of ameloblasts from any source of nutrition. As the ameloblasts degenerate, a gingival sulcus is created.\n\nFrequently, nerves and blood vessels run parallel to each other in the body, and the formation of both usually takes place simultaneously and in a similar fashion. However, this is not the case for nerves and blood vessels around the tooth, because of different rates of development.\n\nNerve fibers start to near the tooth during the cap stage of tooth development and grow toward the dental follicle. Once there, the nerves develop around the tooth bud and enter the dental papilla when dentin formation has begun. Nerves never proliferate into the enamel organ.\n\nBlood vessels grow in the dental follicle and enter the dental papilla in the cap stage. Groups of blood vessels form at the entrance of the dental papilla. The number of blood vessels reaches a maximum at the beginning of the crown stage, and the dental papilla eventually forms in the pulp of a tooth. Throughout life, the amount of pulpal tissue in a tooth decreases, which means that the blood supply to the tooth decreases with age. The enamel organ is devoid of blood vessels because of its epithelial origin, and the mineralized tissues of enamel and dentin do not need nutrients from the blood.\n\nTooth eruption occurs when the teeth enter the mouth and become visible. Although researchers agree that tooth eruption is a complex process, there is little agreement on the identity of the mechanism that controls eruption. Some commonly held theories that have been disproven over time include: (1) the tooth is pushed upward into the mouth by the growth of the tooth's root, (2) the tooth is pushed upward by the growth of the bone around the tooth, (3) the tooth is pushed upward by vascular pressure, and (4) the tooth is pushed upward by the cushioned hammock. The cushioned hammock theory, first proposed by Harry Sicher, was taught widely from the 1930s to the 1950s. This theory postulated that a ligament below a tooth, which Sicher observed under a microscope on a histologic slide, was responsible for eruption. Later, the \"ligament\" Sicher observed was determined to be merely an artifact created in the process of preparing the slide.\n\nThe most widely held current theory is that while several forces might be involved in eruption, the periodontal ligaments provide the main impetus for the process. Theorists hypothesize that the periodontal ligaments promote eruption through the shrinking and cross-linking of their collagen fibers and the contraction of their fibroblasts.\n\nAlthough tooth eruption occurs at different times for different people, a general eruption timeline exists. Typically, humans have 20 primary (baby) teeth and 32 permanent teeth. Tooth eruption has three stages. The first, known as deciduous dentition stage, occurs when only primary teeth are visible. Once the first permanent tooth erupts into the mouth, the teeth are in the mixed (or transitional) dentition. After the last primary tooth falls out of the mouth—a process known as exfoliation—the teeth are in the permanent dentition.\n\nPrimary dentition starts on the arrival of the mandibular central incisors, usually at eight months, and lasts until the first permanent molars appear in the mouth, usually at six years. The primary teeth typically erupt in the following order: (1) central incisor, (2) lateral incisor, (3) first molar, (4) canine, and (5) second molar. As a general rule, four teeth erupt for every six months of life, mandibular teeth erupt before maxillary teeth, and teeth erupt sooner in females than males. During primary dentition, the tooth buds of permanent teeth develop below the primary teeth, close to the palate or tongue.\n\nMixed dentition starts when the first permanent molar appears in the mouth, usually at six years, and lasts until the last primary tooth is lost, usually at eleven or twelve years. Permanent teeth in the maxilla erupt in a different order from permanent teeth on the mandible. Maxillary teeth erupt in the following order: (1) first molar (2) central incisor, (3) lateral incisor, (4) first premolar, (5) second premolar, (6) canine, (7) second molar, and (8) third molar. Mandibular teeth erupt in the following order: (1) first molar (2) central incisor, (3) lateral incisor, (4) canine, (5) first premolar, (6) second premolar, (7) second molar, and (8) third molar. Since there are no premolars in the primary dentition, the primary molars are replaced by permanent premolars. If any primary teeth are lost before permanent teeth are ready to replace them, some posterior teeth may drift forward and cause space to be lost in the mouth. This may cause crowding and/or misplacement once the permanent teeth erupt, which is usually referred to as malocclusion. Orthodontics may be required in such circumstances for an individual to achieve a straight set of teeth.\n\nThe permanent dentition begins when the last primary tooth is lost, usually at 11 to 12 years, and lasts for the rest of a person's life or until all of the teeth are lost (edentulism). During this stage, third molars (also called \"wisdom teeth\") are frequently extracted because of decay, pain or impactions. The main reasons for tooth loss are decay and periodontal disease.\n\nImmediately after the eruption enamel is covered by a specific film: Nasmyth's membrane or 'enamel cuticle', structure of embryological origin is composed of keratin which gives rise to the enamel organ.\n\nAs in other aspects of human growth and development, nutrition has an effect on the developing tooth. Essential nutrients for a healthy tooth include calcium, phosphorus, and vitamins A, C, and D. Calcium and phosphorus are needed to properly form the hydroxyapatite crystals, and their levels in the blood are maintained by Vitamin D. Vitamin A is necessary for the formation of keratin, as Vitamin C is for collagen. Fluoride, although not a nutrient, is incorporated into the hydroxyapatite crystal of a developing tooth and bones. The dental theory is the low levels of fluoride incorporation and very mild fluorosis makes the tooth more resistant to demineralization and subsequent decay.\n\nDeficiencies of nutrients can have a wide range of effects on tooth development. In situations where calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D are deficient, the hard structures of a tooth may be less mineralized. A lack of vitamin A can cause a reduction in the amount of enamel formation.\n\nFluoride ingestion has been noted to delay eruption of teeth for as much as a year or more from the accepted eruption dates since the initial 1940s fluoridation trials. Researchers theorize that the delay is a manifestation of fluoride's depressing impact on thyroid hormones. The delay in eruption has been suggested as the reason for the apparent difference in decay among the youngest children. Fluoride ingestion during tooth development can lead to a permanent condition known as fluorosis with varying levels of severity, the result of fluoride's interference with the normal osteoblast development.\n\nUndiagnosed and untreated celiac disease often causes dental enamel defects and can be the only manifestation of the disease, in absence of gastrointestinal symptoms or malabsorption signs.\n\nBisphenol A (BPA) is a hormone-disrupting chemical that has been implicated in having negative effects on human health, including, but not limited to, fetal development. As shown in animal studies which mimic human enamel, the mother's consumption of products with BPA during pregnancy can lead to the child's tooth development being obstructed. Those children are shown to be prone to incisor and first molar hypomineralization, a weakened state of the enamel. Additionally, it is most important for mother's to avoid BPA during pregnancy, but also avoid BPA-use in the child's products up to five months of age.\n\nAnodontia is a complete lack of tooth development, and hypodontia is a lack of some tooth development. Anodontia is rare, most often occurring in a condition called hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, while hypodontia is one of the most common developmental abnormalities, affecting 3.5–8.0% of the population (not including third molars). The absence of third molars is very common, occurring in 20–23% of the population, followed in prevalence by the second premolar and lateral incisor. Hypodontia is often associated with the absence of a dental lamina, which is vulnerable to environmental forces, such as infection and chemotherapy medications, and is also associated with many syndromes, such as Down syndrome and Crouzon syndrome.\n\nHyperdontia is the development of extraneous teeth. It occurs in 1–3% of Caucasians and is more frequent in Asians. About 86% of these cases involve a single extra tooth in the mouth, most commonly found in the maxilla, where the incisors are located. Hyperdontia is believed to be associated with an excess of dental lamina.\n\nDilaceration is an abnormal bend found on a tooth, and is nearly always associated with trauma that moves the developing tooth bud. As a tooth is forming, a force can move the tooth from its original position, leaving the rest of the tooth to form at an abnormal angle. Cysts or tumors adjacent to a tooth bud are forces known to cause dilaceration, as are primary (baby) teeth pushed upward by trauma into the gingiva where it moves the tooth bud of the permanent tooth.\n\nEnamel hypoplasia or hypomineralization is a defect of the teeth caused by a disturbance in the formation of the organic enamel matrix, clinically visible as enamel defects. It may be caused by nutritional factors, some diseases (such as undiagnosed and untreated celiac disease, chicken pox, congenital syphilis), hypocalcemia, fluoride ingestion, birth injury, preterm birth, infection or trauma from a deciduous tooth. In some circumstances enamel hypoplasia can be so severe that last sections of enamel is missing, exposing the underlying dentin.\n\nSome systemic conditions may cause delayed tooth development, such as nutritional factors, endocrine disorders (hypothyroidism, hypopituitarism, hypoparathyroidism, pseudohypoparathyroidism), undiagnosed and untreated celiac disease, anemia, prematurity, low birth weight, renal failure, heavy metal intoxication or tobacco smoke, among others.\n\nRegional odontodysplasia is rare, but is most likely to occur in the maxilla and anterior teeth. The cause is unknown; a number of causes have been postulated, including a disturbance in the neural crest cells, infection, radiation therapy, and a decrease in vascular supply (the most widely held hypothesis). Teeth affected by regional odontodysplasia nevAmelogenesis imperfecta is an autosomal dominant disease characterized by a defect in dental enamel formation. Teeth are often free of enamel, small, misshapen, and tinted brown. The cause of these deformities is due to a mutation in enamel in expression. Dental patients with this disease should be especially cautious and visit their dentist frequently.\nNatal and neonatal teeth are an anomaly that involves teeth erupting in a newborn infant's mouth earlier than usual. The incidence ranges from 1:2,000 to 1:3,500 births. Natal teeth are more frequent, approximately three times more common than neonatal teeth. Some authors reported a higher prevalence in females than males. The most common location is the mandibular region of the central incisors. Natal teeth and neonatal teeth are associated with genetics, developmental abnormalities and certain recognized syndromes. Additional names for this condition include precocious dentition, baby teeth, and milk teeth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080435", "title": "Happy Trails (song)", "text": "Happy Trails (song)\n\n\"Happy Trails\" is a song by Roy Rogers and wife Dale Evans, known as the theme song for the 1940s and 1950s radio program and the 1950s television show in which they starred. It was written by Evans and always sung by the duo over the end credits of those programs.\n\n\"Happy Trails\" was released in 1952 as a 78 RPM and 45 RPM by Rogers and Evans with the Whippoorwills and Orchestra, on RCA Victor Records. It was re-issued in 1957 as a 45 RPM record on RCA Victor/Bluebird. Members of the Western Writers of America chose it as one of the Top 100 Western songs of all time.\n\nIn 1951, Foy Willing had written a song titled \"Happy Trails\" for the Republic Pictures movie, \"Spoilers of the Plains\", starring Roy Rogers with Foy Willing and the Riders of the Purple Sage. Subsequently, the first three notes of Foy's song and the title were used by Dale Evans in writing her version of \"Happy Trails\" for both the original \"The Roy Rogers Show\" and the short-lived \"The Roy Rogers and Dale Evans Show\", which aired on ABC in 1962. Dale's is the version that is popularly played and sung today, albeit without giving credit to Foy Willing.\n\nThere have been numerous notable covers of Dale Evans' version of the song. For example:\n"}
{"id": "2080443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080443", "title": "Syn and anti addition", "text": "Syn and anti addition\n\nIn organic chemistry, syn and anti addition are different ways in which two substituents can be added to a double bond or triple bond. This article will use cycloalkenes as examples. \n\nSyn addition is the addition of two substituents to the same side (or \"face\") of a double bond or triple bond, resulting in a decrease in bond order but an increase in number of substituents. Generally the substrate will be an alkene or alkyne. An example of syn addition would be the oxidation of an alkene to a diol via a suitable oxidizing agent such as Osmium tetroxide OsO or Potassium permanganate KMnO.\n\nAnti addition is in direct contrast to syn addition. In anti addition, two substituents are added to opposite sides (or faces) of a double bond or triple bond, once again resulting in a decrease in bond order and increase in number of substituents. The classical example of this is bromination (any halogenation) of alkenes.\n\nDepending on the substrate double bond, addition can have different effects on the molecule. After addition to a straight-chain alkene such as CH, the resulting alkane will rapidly and freely rotate around its single sigma bond under normal conditions (i.e. room temperature). Thus whether substituents are added to the same side (syn) or opposite sides (anti) of a double can usually be ignored due to free rotation. However, if chirality or the specific absolute orientation of the substituents needs to be taken into account, knowing the type of addition is significant. Unlike straight-chain alkenes, cycloalkene syn addition allows stable addition of substituents to the same side of the ring, where they remain together. The cyclic locked ring structure prevents free rotation.\n\nSyn elimination and anti elimination are the reverse processes of syn and anti addition. These result in a new double bond, such as in Ei elimination.\n"}
{"id": "2080448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080448", "title": "Homer Thornberry", "text": "Homer Thornberry\n\nWilliam Homer Thornberry (January 9, 1909 – December 12, 1995) was an American politician and judge. He served as the United States Representative from the 10th congressional district of Texas from 1949 to 1963. From 1963 to 1965 he was Judge of the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas, and he was a Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit from 1965 to 1978.\n\nThornberry was born in Austin, Texas. His parents were teachers in the State School for the Deaf and were themselves deaf. He attended public schools in Austin and graduated from Austin High School in 1927. He received a Bachelor of Business Administration in 1932 from the University of Texas at Austin and his Bachelor of Laws in 1936, from the University of Texas School of Law, where he was a member of the Acacia fraternity. He was in private practice of law in Austin from 1936 to 1941. He was a Member of the Texas House of Representatives from 1937 to 1941. He was district attorney of Travis County, Texas from 1941 to 1942. He was a United States Navy Lieutenant Commander from 1942 to 1946. He was in private practice of law in Austin from 1946 to 1948. He was a Member of the Austin City Council from 1946 to 1948.\n\nThornberry was elected in 1948 to the 81st United States Congress as a United States Representative of the 10th congressional district of Texas. In winning the seat, he replaced its former occupant, Lyndon B. Johnson, who had been elected that year for the first time to the United States Senate. Thornberry was a member of the Rules Committee of the United States House of Representatives from January 1955 to his 1963 resignation, when he was appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson to the federal bench.\n\nHe was one of the majority of the Texan delegation to decline to sign the 1956 Southern Manifesto opposing the desegregation of public schools ordered by the Supreme Court in \"Brown v. Board of Education\". Thornberry voted against the Civil Rights Act of 1957 but in favor of the Civil Rights Act of 1960 and the 24th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.\n\nThornberry was present on Air Force One and witnessed Lyndon Johnson taking the oath of office following the assassination of President Kennedy.\n\nThornberry was nominated by President John F. Kennedy on July 9, 1963, to a seat on the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas vacated by Judge R. Ewing Thomason. He was confirmed by the United States Senate on July 15, 1963, and received his commission from President Lyndon B. Johnson on December 17, 1963. His service was terminated on July 2, 1965, due to elevation to the Fifth Circuit.\n\nThornberry was nominated by President Johnson on June 22, 1965, to a seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit vacated by Judge Joseph Chappell Hutcheson Jr. He was confirmed by the Senate on July 1, 1965, and received his commission the same day. He assumed senior status on December 21, 1978. His service was terminated on December 12, 1995, due to his death.\n\nThornberry was nominated for Abe Fortas' seat on the United States Supreme Court by President Johnson, who nominated Fortas to replace Earl Warren as Chief Justice. However, once Fortas withdrew his nomination in October 1968, Thornberry's nomination became moot and was withdrawn by the White House without a vote. Thornberry was the last Supreme Court nominee to have served in Congress.\n\nThornberry died on December 12, 1995, at his home in Austin and was interred at the Texas State Cemetery in Austin.\n\nHe was first married to the former Eloise Engle (1919–1989). After her death he wed Marian Davis. With his first wife, Thornberry was the father of three children, Molly, David, and Kate.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080451", "title": "Agfa digital cameras", "text": "Agfa digital cameras\n\nAgfa produced a number of mostly consumer-oriented digital cameras from the mid-1990s to the early 2000s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080454", "title": "Lothar (Metabarons)", "text": "Lothar (Metabarons)\n\nLothar is a fictional robot in the \"Metabarons\" universe. He is presented firstly being in service of the Metabaron (the Nameless), who asks Tonto to narrate to him of his master's history. Tonto who has been served the Metabarons for decades, unlike Lothar who is relatively new in the Metabaron's ownership, tells the saga to him, being thus the main narrator of the comic book series.\n\nDuring the frame story (outside of the narrative), Lothar loses his body and a new one is constructed for him. It is revealed in the process that he in fact is Steelhead, the Metabaron's grandfather, who returned to reclaim his office. The Metabaron however managed to erase his memory and transform him into a robot, serving him. Finally recovering his sense of self, if not his full memories, Steelhead, ridding himself of the mechanical control implants, wrestles again with Nameless, finally giving his life to save his nephew, and the entire Universe, with a kamikaze attack.\n"}
{"id": "2080455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080455", "title": "Sörnäinen metro station", "text": "Sörnäinen metro station\n\nSörnäinen metro station (, ) is a station on the Helsinki Metro. It serves the central Helsinki districts of Sörnäinen and Kallio. Sörnäinen is the easternmost station on the system to be located underground.\n\nThe station was opened on 1 September 1984 and was designed by Jouko Kontio and Seppo Kilpiä. It is located 900 meters from Hakaniemi metro station, and 1.1 kilometers from Kalasatama metro station. The station is situated at a depth of 25 meters below ground level and 3 meters below sea level.\n"}
{"id": "2080462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080462", "title": "Lehrer", "text": "Lehrer\n\nLehrer, potentially recorded in various spellings including Lehr, Lehrer, Lehrian and Lehrmann, is a surname that can be either Germanic or Jewish.\n\nLehrer has several possible origins. The first two possible origins are:\n\nThe most probable option for the origin of the Lehrer surname is from the word \"Lehrer\", meaning teacher or rabbi in the German language. This may be religious or it may describe a teacher in a traditional elementary school. It would depend on the particular circumstances at the time that the surname was given out or adopted.\n\nThe origin may be topographical and derive from the ancient pre-7th-century word \"lehr\" akin to the English 'leah', and as such describing an enclosure suitable for agriculture or a water meadow, one which was flooded in winter but dried out for summer grazing. There are several places in Southern Germany and Austria called 'Lehr'. These place names might have derived from old water meadows.\n\nHaving researched the Lehrer name for many years, the topographical-locational option certainly seems likely for some of the other potential spellings which have been suggested and would be possible for the lineage in southern Germany. This would also fit with what one Lehrer family researcher has noted about the Lehrer name in Dabo, France for the year 1772:\n“If this is an occupational name, then this would have been relatively rare as this was at the beginning of the time when surnames were given based on a man's occupation.”\n\nThere is a well documented family that trace their lineage to a Jewish teacher in Poland. While possible, it appears very unlikely that the southern German and the Jewish family lines are connected.\n\nThe possible link from the Rhineland Lehrers to the Polish line relates to emigration from France and southern Germany. There was no systematic, official method of emigration, and few emigration lists are available, yet significant numbers of emigrants were known to leave southern Germany and Alsace during the following periods:\n\n\nAlso the registres d'options de noms 1808 became a de facto census of the Jewish people of France. The numbers are interesting. According to a list in the Archives nationales there were 46,054 Jewish people in France who chose permanent names. The majority were in the departments of Bas-Rhin, Haut-Rhin, and Moselle, areas that some Lehrer families lived in. In each, the head of a family, usually the husband and father, gives for each family member his or her name, date and place of birth, and the surname and forenames chosen.\n\nThere are a number of Lehrer families originating in southern Germany, north, west France, Austria and Bavaria, although unlikely some of these different lineages may all originate from the one family. By following the birth places of the people furthest back in the known Lehrer family lines, as we move further back in time, there is a consistent movement into the Rhineland, in particular to two nearby cities either side of the Rhine, Landau and Strasbourg.\n\nThe earliest known record of births and marriages for Lehrer families are the children of Georg Lehrer and his wife Sibilla who lived in Bayern, Germany and they had three known children who were all baptised in Evangelisch, Landau in Pfalz Stadt, Pfalz, Bavaria\n\nCommercial heraldry websites indicate that there is a Lehrer family crest, they do however promote other surnames of a similar spelling as having the same family crest. If there is a Lehrer crest, likely recordings of who this was issued to and where they were from would be in German Bavaria or Württemberg as during the late 1500s and the early part of the 1600s, almost all recorded Lehrer, birth, death and marriages appear to be located in this region.\n\nMoving into the late 1600s and early 1700s the recorded births, deaths and marriages spread out through the Rhineland and include Alsace which was partially independent and is now a part of France, Austria, Wurrtemburg and other parts of Germany.\n\nBy the late 1700s and early 1800s, a significant number of Lehrers moved elsewhere around the world, specifically to the Americas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080471", "title": "Constitution of Connecticut", "text": "Constitution of Connecticut\n\nThe Constitution of the State of Connecticut is the basic governing document of the U.S. state of Connecticut. It was approved by referendum on December 14, 1965, and proclaimed by the governor as adopted on December 30. It comprises 14 articles and has been amended 31 times.\n\nThis constitution replaced the earlier constitution of 1818. It is the state's second constitution since the establishment of the United States. An earlier constitution dating from colonial times, the Fundamental Orders of Connecticut, remained the basis of government even as Connecticut gained its independence from Great Britain, existed as an independent polity, and joined the United States.\n\nThe constitution consists of fourteen articles:\n\n\nThe Connecticut constitution can be amended via a process that originates in the General Assembly. If a joint resolution proposing a constitutional amendment passes each house of the General Assembly with a three-fourths majority of the votes cast, the amendment is submitted to the voters in the next even-numbered year's general election. If such a joint resolution fails to win a three-fourth majority vote in either house but still obtains a majority, it must receive a majority in each house during the next legislative session before being submitted to the voters in the next even-numbered year's general election. An amendment that wins a majority of the votes cast in the referendum is adopted.\n\nA constitutional convention can amend the constitution. Such a convention is called either:\n\nThe General Assembly shall decide, by a two-thirds vote of each house, the method for selecting convention delegates and the date of the convention's convening and adjournment. The most recent referendum on calling a constitutional convention was held on November 4, 2008. Voters opposed calling a constitutional convention by a vote of 847,518 to 579,904.\n\nThe state constitution has been amended 31 times.\n\n\nThe \"Fundamental Orders of Connecticut\" (1638) is considered by many to be the state's first constitution, although it was adopted while the state was still an English colony. The document recognized no allegiance to England but instead an independent government. \"The Charter of the Colony of Connecticut\" (1662) officially superseded the Fundamental Orders, but the local government continued operating under the previous rules. Even after the American Revolutionary War, the state retained its constitution for another 40 years.\n\nThe colonial charter was abolished with the adoption of the first state constitution in 1818. In contrast to the Fundamental Orders, that constitution provided for freedom of religion.\n\nOn October 1, 1901, Connecticut residents voted nearly 2-to-1 in favor of calling of a constitutional convention to revise the constitution. A convention was held, and a revised constitution was proposed. On June 16, 1902, voters rejected the revised constitution by a margin of more than 2-to-1.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080472", "title": "That Old Black Magic", "text": "That Old Black Magic\n\n\"That Old Black Magic\" is a 1942 popular song written by Harold Arlen (music), with the lyrics by Johnny Mercer.. They wrote it for the 1942 film \"Star Spangled Rhythm\", when it was sung by Johnny Johnston and danced by Vera Zorina. The song was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Song in 1943 but lost out to \"You'll Never Know\".\n\nIt was first recorded by Gordon Jenkins and his Orchestra on July 9, 1942, and was released as a single by Judy Garland in January 1943 – in advance of the movie's release. Five other recordings (also made in 1942) followed within the next two weeks.\n\nThe song was published in 1942 and has become an often-recorded standard, with versions that include the original single release by Glenn Miller, by the singers Margaret Whiting, Frank Sinatra, Sammy Davis Jr., Mercer himself, and others. Mercer wrote the lyrics with Judy Garland in mind, who was, on occasion, an intimate partner. Garland recorded the song for Decca Records in 1942. Mercer recalled wanting to write a song about magic, and while composing, asking Arlen to write more music so the song could go on longer, but that they still wrote the whole song in about three hours.\n\nThe Glenn Miller recording was released by RCA Victor Records as catalog number 20-1523-A, with \"A Pink Cocktail For a Blue Lady\" as the B side. The vocals were by Skip Nelson and the Modernaires. Glenn Miller recorded the song on July 15, 1942. The release was Glenn Miller's last number-1 hit. It charted in 1943, spending 14 weeks on the \"Billboard\" magazine charts, peaking at position number 1 for the week of May 29.\n\nThe Margaret Whiting recording (with the Freddie Slack Orchestra, which got top billing on the label) was released by Capitol Records as catalog number 126. It charted in 1943, spending a week at number 10 on the \"Billboard\" chart.\n\nElla Fitzgerald recorded this on her Verve double-album, \"Ella Fitzgerald Sings the Harold Arlen Songbook\" (1961).\n\nFrank Sinatra recorded the song twice: once as a ballad for Columbia, and again in 1961 in a lightly swinging arrangement for Capitol (featured on \"Come Swing with Me!\"). Sinatra also sang a slightly altered version of the song, titled \"That Old Jack Magic\" at the inaugural gala he held for John F. Kennedy the night before Kennedy was inaugurated as the 35th President of the United States.\n\nBing Crosby sang the song in an extraordinarily slow classic crooner style in the World War II- era film \"Here Come the Waves\" (1944).\n\nA 1950 recording on Mercury Records by Billy Daniels gave him the moniker \"The Old Black Magic Man\" for the rest of his career.\n\nThe Sammy Davis Jr. recording was released by Decca Records as catalog number 29541. It charted in 1955 and spent six weeks on the \"Billboard\" charts, peaking at position number 16. \n\nMarilyn Monroe famously sang the song in her film \"Bus Stop\" (1956). Her character Chérie is singing the song (somewhat out of key) to an audience who is not listening and talking loudly, until Don Murray quiets them all down.\n\nIn 1963, Jerry Lewis also sang his unforgettable version as suave hipster Buddy Love in his film \"The Nutty Professor\".\n\nThe duet recorded by Louis Prima and Keely Smith was released as a single in 1958 on the Capitol label. It reached a peak of 18 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. This particular version was performed on \"Sam and Friends\" by Sam and Kermit the Frog, Sam performing as Prima and Kermit dressing in drag and performing as Smith. This sequence became one of the most well-known episodes of \"Sam and Friends\".\n\nBobby Rydell had his version released as a single on Cameo in 1961. It reached number 21 on the Hot 100.\n\nJohnny Mercer recorded his version for his album \"My Huckleberry Friend\" (1974).\n\nAs part of his album \"My Name is Allan\", Allan Sherman sang a parody of this song called \"That Old Back Scratcher\".\n\nIn 1992, it was recorded by Nancy LaMott on her album \"Come Rain or Come Shine\". She turned it into a torch song, a change from the swing arrangements that Sinatra and others employed. Jonathan Schwartz, the New York DJ and son of composer Arthur Schwartz, often states that the song never appealed to him — just Arlen and Mercer \"hokem\" — until he heard LaMott's version.\n\nKevin Spacey covered the song on the soundtrack to 1997's \"Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil\", in which he played the lead character, Jim Williams.\n\nDeana Martin recorded \"That Old Black Magic\" in 2009. The song was on her album \"Volare\", released in 2009 by Big Fish Records.\n\nThe Uptown Band, featuring Erich Cawalla and Jenifer Kinder, recorded the song in 2014 and it appears on their sophomore album \"Heart, Soul, Body, & Mind\". Their version features special guest Will Lee, bassist with the CBS Orchestra on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\".\n"}
{"id": "2080473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080473", "title": "Lerner", "text": "Lerner\n\nLerner is a German and Jewish family name. Its literal meaning can be either \"student\" or \"scholar\". \n\nIt may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080475", "title": "Cardona, Rizal", "text": "Cardona, Rizal\n\n', officially the ', (), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nCardona is in District 2 of Rizal.\n\nWith the continuous expansion of Metro Manila, the municipality is now part of Manila's conurbation which reaches Cardona in its easternmost part.\n\nCardona is politically subdivided into 18 barangays, 11 of which are on the mainland and 7 on Talim Island.\n\n\n\nIn the , the population of Cardona, Rizal, was people, with a density of .\n\nCatholic Churches:\n\nBorn Again Christian Church:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080478", "title": "Jalajala", "text": "Jalajala\n\n' (; also spelled Jala-jala), officially the ' (), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nWhat is now the town's Barangay Punta was the seat of an earlier settlement later known as Halaán. During the summer from April to May, the shores of Laguna de Bay along Punta would be filled with small shellfish locally known as \"halaán\".\n\nAs is typical with many modern Philippine toponyms, the town's name supposedly resulted from miscommunication between early Spanish visitors and natives. The Spaniards enquired of some natives along the shoreline, \"\"¿Como se llama este sitio?\"\" (\"What is the name of this place?\") to which the latter replied, \"\"halaán pò,\"\" thinking that the foreigners referred to the shells. The Spaniards accepted the response as the name of the place, and began calling it \"halaán\", later corrupting it into \"Jalajala\".\n\nAnother folk etymology is that Jalajala stems from an endemic breed of boar called \"berk jala\", which is abundant in the wilds around the town and is depicted on its seal. As with the other story, a Spaniard asked the Tagalog-speaking natives the place's name, and the locals' interjection of \"\"hala-hala\"” (possibly a hunting chant) was taken by the Spaniards to be their answer.\n\nAfter the invading commands over the few months and five years by the retreating of all stronghold of the local Rizaleño resistance fighters under the Colonel Marking's Guerrillas and the Hunters ROTC Guerrillas around in the town of Jalajala by attacking Japanese forces and the Makapili collaborating rebels during the Post-Counter-Insurgencies under by Japanese Occupation on 1945 and before the local Filipino troops of the Philippine Commonwealth Army and Philippine Constabulary units recaptured the towns during the liberation.\n\nStarted the Allied Invasion of Jalajala on January to August 1945, local military forces of Filipino soldiers under the Philippine Commonwealth Army 4th, 41st, 42nd, 43rd, 45th, 46th and 47th Infantry Division and the Philippine Constabulary 4th Infantry Regiment was recaptured and invaded the municipal town of Jalajala and aided the helpful of all local Rizaleño guerrilla resistance fighters under the Colonel Marking's Guerrillas and the Hunters ROTC Guerrillas in the defeated and attacking the fought against the Imperial Japanese armed forces and the Makapili collaborating rebels.\n\nMeanwhile, around the captured, bombed and destroyed the plains, rice fields, rivers and forests at the municipal town of Jalajala was entering the battles and invading commands from the couple of eight months and one years beginning the liberation of all the stronghold of local Filipino soldiers, military officers, tank commanders, military truck and jeeps, military IFV's, artillery and mortars and many other military equipments under the 4th, 41st, 42nd, 43rd, 45th and 46th Infantry Division of the Philippine Commonwealth Army and the 4th Infantry Regiment of the Philippine Constabulary was sending the local military operations around and arrival the towns in Jalajala and they captured, bombed and destroyed the Roman Catholic churches, municipal town halls, plazas, villages and many others are they burned and attacked and defeated by the Imperial Japanese troops, military officers, tank commanders, military truck and jeeps, military IFV's, artillery and mortars and many other military equipments under the Imperial Japanese Armed Forces and they captured in Jalajala by the local Filipino ground troops.\n\nThe American fighter and bomber planes under the United States Army Air Forces entered the town in Jalajala was supported and helping the aided by the local Filipino soldiers under the Philippine Commonwealth Army and Philippine Constabulary and the local Rizaleño resistance fighters under the Colonel Marking's Guerrillas and the Hunters ROTC Guerrillas around the municipal towns was liberated and defeating Japanese soldiers under the Imperial Japanese Armed Forces.\n\nThe inside of all Japanese troops and officers under the military station of the Imperial Japanese Armed Forces at the military garrison bases and started by the invading sieges and military raids of the military general headquarters and military garrisons and bases of the Imperial Japanese Armed Forces in Jalajala and they fought the invaded and entering of all stronghold Filipino troops and officers under the Philippine Commonwealth Army and Philippine Constabulary units. After the invading sieges by the Japanese military GHQ's and garrisons in Jalajala, the entered and capturing the Japanese military GHQ's and garrisons in Jalajala by the successfully victorious of all Filipino troops and military officers under the Philippine Commonwealth Army and Philippine Constabulary units recaptured and taken the camps with the flag pole raised and up the Philippine war flag for the Philippine Commonwealth military and they surrendered and retreating Japanese Imperial forces.\n\nThe aftermath of the Allied Invasion of Jalajala on August 1945, the local military and guerrilla resistance casualties during the fighting and the battle and invading commands and they succeeding battles and invasions including 4,600 Filipino troops under the Philippine Commonwealth Army and Philippine Constabulary units was killed in action and 11,300 wounded in action, while the local Rizaleño guerrilla resistance fighters under the Colonel Marking's Guerrillas and the Hunters ROTC Guerrillas suffered over 960 killed in action and over 2,160 wounded in action. On the part of the Japanese troops under the Imperial Japanese Armed Forces over 27,000 killed in action, 38,000 wounded in action and over 19,000 captured in action. The Makapili collaborating rebels over 120 killed in action, 230 wounded in action and over 740 captured in action. On 10,000 Rizaleño non-combatant civilians killed by the Japanese military hands. The local Filipino soldiers under the Philippine Commonwealth Army and Philippine Constabulary units and the local Rizaleño guerrilla resistance fighters under the Colonel Marking's Guerrillas and the Hunters ROTC Guerrillas saluted by all decisive successfully victories after the invasion and they captured in the municipal town of Jalajala and finally the surrendered and retreated Japanese Imperial forces and the Makapili collaborating rebels by the Filipino military forces in the town after the war.\n\nJalajala is on a peninsula located southeast of Manila in the largest freshwater lake in the Philippines, Laguna de Bay. It lies on the eastern part of the Rizal Province and has a land area of 4,930.000 hectares representing 3.77% of the total land area of the province. Jalajala’s political boundary on the north is the Panguil River, wherein it shares the boundary with the town of Pakil in Laguna. On its southern, eastern, and western boundaries lies the Laguna de Bay.\n\nMount Sembrano forms the boundary of Jalajala and Pililla.\n\nJalajala is politically subdivided into eleven barangays (three urban, eight rural). Bayugo, Palay-Palay, and Sipsipin were elevated as barrios in 1956.\n\nIn the , the population of Jala-jala, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2080485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080485", "title": "Morong, Rizal", "text": "Morong, Rizal\n\n', officially the ', (), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nA popular attraction is Spanish-era St. Jerome's Parish Church. The town is also known for featuring the \"balaw-balaw\" side dish, as well as for having education as its priority- \"\"Una Ang Edukasyon\"\" (Education first), that is why during the early-1970s and early-1990s, it became the center of education. Students from different places mostly in the nearby towns of Rizal would come and study in Morong.\n\nMorong was considered the province before it was called Rizal. Its original name was Politico Militar Distrito de Morong, which included the towns that make up present-day Rizal province.\n\nOn January 16, 1572, Captain Juan Maldonado, a trusted officer under Martin de Goiti, a Deputy of Miguel Lopez de Legaspi, came to a thriving community by a river while leading a Spanish contingent exploring the areas East of Manila. They named the community, Moron, after a township in Spain. This happened almost a year after Martin De Goit occupied Manila after routing the forces of Rajah Soliman (Sulayman).\n\nThe Spaniards found an organized community along both banks of the river but outlying settlements / barangays were in conflict with each other. The barangays were subjugated and the natives Christianized starting 1578 by Franciscan missionaries Juan de Placencia and Diego de Oropesa. They constructed chapels (visitas) attached to a bigger settlement to allow religious and civil administration. Later, this settlement was converted into a pueblo. which they called Pueblo de Moron. Baras, Tanay, Pililla, Binangonan were the visitas under Pueblo de Morong.\n\nPueblo de Morong was made the provincial capital of the Franciscan Order at that time.\n\nThe visita of Pilang separated from Morong and became the independent town of Pililla. Binangonan followed in 1621.\n\nThe Politico-Militar Distrito de Morong or Distrito de Morong was created out of the provinces of Manila and Laguna composing the pueblos of Morong, Pililla, Tanay, Baras, Binangonan, Jalajala, Angono, Antipolo, Boso-Boso, Cainta and Taytay.\n\nDuring the Spanish colonization in the Philippines, each town (pueblo) was admistered by a gobernadorcillo, elected annually by all natives of the locality, subject to the approval of the suerior government in located in Manila. In the 19th century, gobernadorcillos were elected by 12 cabezas de barangay.\n\nIn the pueblo of Morong, it was different. A gobernadorcillo was not elected but was appointed by the governor of the province based on his economic wealth, training and educational background. He chose his own people and were not elected to help him with his duties. They did not receive salary but were exempted from paying taxes and doing forced labor.\n\nThe original Bridge of Morong was made of adobe stones, shaped and placed together, forming an arch over the river. The strength and stability of the bridge came from the weight of its wedge-shaped stone blocks and its upright position. The stones were cemented with mortar, a mixture of fine sand, lime, molasses and juice of ground puso-puso leaves. Heavy piers of the arch were planted on the opposite banks of the river. No metals were used during its construction from 1696 to 1701.\n\nThis church was constructed not only by men, but also women and children. Stones dug from a hill called Kay Ngaya; lime from the stones of the mountain Kay Maputi; sand and gravel from Morong River; and timber were contributed by the townspeople.\n\nIn 1850, Fr. Maximo Rico drew the plan of the irrigation dam at Uugong where it drew water from the falls and supervised the construction of the irrigation canal from Uugong dam to the ricefield in San Pedro. The canal measured 501 meters long and 2.1 meters deep. Other sources say that the construction started by Franciscan priests in 1848.\n\nDuring the period of Spanish colonization, this building housed the Comandacia del Distrito Politico-Militar de Morong, the seat of Government for the Distrito. It was originall made of adobe stones, hard wood and galvanized iron sheets for roofing. During the early American period, it was converted into a school. It was damaged after the second world war, but rebuilt with alterations and continued to be used as a primary school building. It was later torn down and rebuilt using reinforced concrete materials and used as the municipal office building for the government of Morong. In 2011, the local government offices were transferred to the new municipal building in a different location. The Comandancia's second floor has since been converted into a public museum.\n\nBantayan was a small guardhouse where civil guards were stationed at the entrance of the town. On the other hand, a torrita was a small tower with bells that provided the signal directed to the central station in front of the Commandancia.\n\nThe first Filipino to die in World War I was Private Tomas Mateo Claudio, who served with the U.S. Marine Corps as part of the American Expeditionary Forces to Europe. He died in the Battle of Château Thierry in France on June 29, 1918. The Tomas Claudio Memorial College in Morong, which was founded in 1950, was named in his honor. The main street of the town was also named in his honor.\n\nThe Puente de San Geronimo (old Morong Bridge) was intentionally blasted by the guerrillas so that Japanese troops could not cross and occupy the Northern part of Morong and Rizal until reinforcements could come. The plan worked for a few days but Japanese troops were eventually able to cross the river at a shallower part farther downriver. The Japanese occupation of the town was broken up by then-Lieutenant Edwin Ramsey, leading the last cavalry charge in U.S. military history with horses from the 26th Cavalry Regiment which he and a platoon of Philippine Scouts had ridden there from Fort Stotsenburg.\n\nDuring the Liberation, Filipino troops of the 4th and 42nd Infantry Division of the Philippine Army and 4th Constabulary Regiment of the Philippine Constabulary including the recognized guerrillas of the Col. Markings Guerrillas and the Hunters ROTC guerrillas liberated and captured the towns in Morong, defeated Japanese forces and forced them to surrender by the end of the War.\n\nMorong is politically subdivided into 8 barangays with 3 situated in the poblacion.\n\n\nIn terms of area, San Guillermo or San Guilmo as locals known is the biggest of the eight barangays of Morong. It borders the towns of Binangonan, Teresa and Tanay. San Guillermo is a farming community with a population of 6,522 and 1,377 total dwellings (2000 census). While majority in the barrio depend on farming as a livelihood, many others are engaged in businesses like garment industry, poultry and piggery. \n\nSan Isidro Labrador is the patron Saint of San Guillermo, a feast in his honor is celebrated annually the 15th of May. In 2005, the small chapel of San Isidro Labrador became a full pledge Parish in the Diocese of Antipolo serving 10,500 Catholics.\n\nAlso in 2005, San Guillermo National High School was established.\n\nThe first wave of San Guillermo immigrants to America came in the early-1900s. San Guillermo natives living in California maintain their cultural heritage by hosting a gathering on Memorial Day in celebration of feast of patron saint San Isidro Labrador. Most San Guillermo natives live in the metropolitan areas of Los Angeles and San Francisco, and the feast is alternately celebrated in both cities since its conception in 1979.\n\nA Barangay in Morong Rizal, Located in the east of the town. The main industries are Farming, Textile Manufacturing, and Food Industry. There are about 8,709 people who live in this area and the ratio of men to women is 1:2.\n\nBarangay San Juan is the center of business and trade in the town of Morong Rizal. It is also said to be the highest remitting income revenue in the whole barangay of the town. This is where establishments are seen such as Jollibee, Morong Centerpoint, SM Savemore, RCBC Savings Bank, UCPB Savings Bank, D.I.Y Hardware, Mercury Drugstore, and Mang Inasal. Other local establishments found in this area are THRIFTMART (former: Ronan grocery store), Camillus chicken, Mateo's bookstore, Morong Doctor's Hospital, Rizal Provincial Hospital, Hernandez bookstore, ERWIN'S boutique, Skin Cellance de Rizal, Supreme Care Medical Diagnostic and Imaging Center Inc., Cesar S.D. Mateo Memorial Clinic, and Cristina Mart. The facade of the St. Jerome's church, a Department of Tourism recognized tourist spot is also located.\n\nBarangay San Pedro is the capital barangay of Morong, Rizal. Barangay San Pedro lies adjacent with the Laguna Bay in the east, bounded at the south with the town of Cardona, on the west by Barangay Bombongan and on the north by Barangay San Jose and Barangay San Juan. Barangay San Pedro has a total land area of 368 has. and around 7,000 populations as of 2010 census.\n\nAs a poblacion barangay, the seat of Local Government of Morong are located here. Barangay San Pedro has many establishments such as Morong Public Market, Sea Oil Gasoline Station, PhilOil Gasoline Station, Aldec Agri-Dynamics Company, Era Plaza Restaurant,Emmas Panciteria Restaurant, Kamalig Restaurant, Kainan, Inuman, At iba pa Beer House, \"Sabungan\", AMA Bank, Macro Bank.\n\nBarangay San Pedro is the center of education in Morong. There are many educational institution that can be found in this barangay namely San Pedro Day Care Center, Jose S. Mapa, St. Claire School, Jesus My Shepperd Montessori School, Renaissance School of Science and Technology, EAST Systems Colleges of Rizal, Inc., and Timoteo A. Reyes Elementary School.\n\nBarangay San Pedro has many landmarks such as Morong Town Plaza, \"Statwa ng Magsasaka\",and \"Puking Bato\" sa Boulevard Park.\n\nBarangay Lagundi is the easternmost barangay of Morong, Rizal. The main road is Raymundo Street which connects to the northernmost barangay and boundary of Baras, Rizal and the capital of Rizal Province, Antipolo. The road access towards the aforementioned barangays are concrete and access is easy unlike before. There are two public elementary schools in the barangay, namely: Lagundi Elementary School and Pulong Kumunoy Elementary School. To cater the needs of accessibility of students, Morong National High School annexed a campus beside the Lagundi Elementary School. \n\nCommercial establishments are abundant, most especially to the entry point. Alfamart and certain stores and restaurant chains are located within the vicinity. During All Saint's Day, the area is known to be a marketplace for flowers from Baguio City and neighboring municipalities in Cordillera.\n\nThe barangay's patron saint is the Immaculate Heart of Mary and Sunday masses are celebrated in the chapel every 5:00PM presided by a Roman Catholic Priest from the mother parish, St. Jerome Church. During the feast day in June, a procession is often held.\n\nIn the , the population of Morong, Rizal, was people, with a density of .\n\n60% of the population in Morong Rizal is composed of Roman Catholics. Other religions in town are the following:\n\n\n\n\nMorong is also known for its \"Kayas Kawayan\". The town is the first and is known to make Baluwartes, an art made of bamboo, with intricate designs. Usually used during special events such as weddings, cordero, and fiestas, its usually found in the entrance gate of the event. During cordero, the lamb- which is made of cake, sweet potatoes and potatoes, is placed and processioned around the town until the church in a small kayas kawayan, carried by men, adorned with flowers.\nNow this art is being copied by the nearby towns.\n\nSome of the famous games in Morong, Rizal are the following. This dates from the 1940s to 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080489", "title": "Pililla, Rizal", "text": "Pililla, Rizal\n\nPililla (), officially the Municipality of Pililla (), is a 1st class municipality in the province of Rizal, Philippines. According to the , it has a population of people. It is surrounded by farms, small mountains, plains, and trees. Pililla is known as the Green Field Municipality of Rizal.\n\nPililla has preserved some religious and non-religious traditions such as the Santa Cruzan or Flores de Mayo, wherein men and women walk all over town with their gowns. Town Fiesta during the month of July is being visited by people from the city to experience the celebrations especially the amateur shows at night. Like other towns, Pililla holds basketball league competitions for youth during summer. Pililla is also a destination for road cyclists because of its asphalted road, specifically in Sitio Bugarin in Barangay Halayhayin.\n\nPilang Munti (Pililla’s pre-Hispanic name) was ruled by a leader named Salyan Maginto. His territory encompasses the modern-day jurisdiction of the municipalities of Baras, Tanay, Pililla, and Jalajala. It was referenced as “\"munti\"” in contrast to the nearby and much larger town of Pila in the province of Laguna.\n\nCavada, a Spanish historian, revealed that in the year 1571, the Spanish forces conquered the towns along Laguna de Bay which they called “Rinconada de Moron” and Pilang Munti was among these which surrendered to the superior force of the Spaniards. Pilang Munti was incorporated into the colonial administration of Morong, and thus, the town was called \"Pilang Morong\".\n\nIn 1572, the first Spanish missionary priests arrived at Pilang Morong. Since then, Christianity was spread by the Spanish priests and in 1582, Fr. Juan de Placencia and Fr. Diego de Oropesa established a “visita” barrio at Pilang Morong. The place was divided by the Spaniards into 5 “\"rancherias\"”:\n\n\nIn 1583, Pilang Morong became an independent municipality. ”Pililla” was given as the official name of the newly formed town. The name “Pililla” arose from the diminutive rules in the Castillan language by modifying a name with “\"-illa\"” or “\"-illo\"” to indicate a smaller or younger version.\n\nIn 1599, 16 years after the town was given autonomy, the supreme government granted Pililla the authority to construct a church.\n\nIn 1600, the first church of cogon and bamboo was constructed in the Dolo Rio but this was burned and a church made of wood was constructed but this was also burned down with the whole town in 1632. Another church made of wood was built and this suffered the same fate in 1668. Two years later, the construction of the present church began. This was finished in 1673 and the edifice still stands up to the present.\n\nAs an autonomous town, Pililla encompassed several barrios including Tanay and Jalajala. Tanay separated from Pililla and became an independent town in 1606. Jalajala became a barrio of Pililla in 1676 but was separated and made an independent town in 1786. It was reincorporated as a barrio of Pililla in 1816, but 9 years later, it was once again separated from Pililla to become an independent municipality.\n\nOn December 4, 1837, an election of local officials was held in Pililla. The following towns participated in the said election: Morong, Pililla, Tanay, Baras, Jalajala and San Diego. The last town was a new town and is presumed to be either the barrio of Quisao, which has San Diego as its patron, or the barrio of Niogan.\n\nIn 1853, Pililla was separated from the province of Laguna to be incorporated into the newly created Distrito de los Montes de San Mateo. In 1857, it was given the new name Distrito Politico-Militar de Morong.\n\nOn March 10, 1861, two principales of San Diego presented to the government a request, on behalf of the residents of San Diego and the sitios of Mavia and Puang, that their territory be separated from Pililla and to create an independent town to be called Perez. Both the gobernadorcillo and the parish priest, as well as the gobernador politico-militar de Morong, favored the petition. However, it was disapproved by the Administracion Civil since the territory did not meet the pre-requisite of having at least 500 tributes, the said territory was having only 298 tributes at that time.\n\nOn July 9, 1885, the government received another petition from Cabeza de Barangay of San Diego requesting that it be made into a kind of self-governing barrio of Pililla, on account of its remoteness. On January 25, 1886, the government agreed to make San Diego into a “\"Visita con Teniente Absolute\"”, on condition that the barrio constructs the necessary public buildings. Thus, upon the fulfillment of the agreed condition, the government’s approval went into effect on June 18 of that same year.\n\nIn 1896, the Katipuneros of Pililla and San Diego established their military camp at Rambo or Pabalang na Gubat.\n\nThree years later, on August 6, 1898, Pililla was incorporated in the revolutionary government of Gen. Emilio Aguinaldo. During the existence of the Philippine Republic, San Diego became an independent town. On January 5, 1899, a fierce battle ensued between the American forces and the Filipino troops defending Pililla. The town was partially ravaged by fire and local troops had to retreat to the mountain of Tanay.\n\nThe towns of Pililla and San Diego were integrated into the newly created province of Rizal in June 1901. Two years later, the Philippine Commission, in line with its policy of economy and centralization, consolidated the towns of Pililla, San Diego and Jalajala with the seat of government in Pililla.\n\nThe first \"Capitan\" under the American regime was Regino Quitiong who was the \"alcalde\" from 1900 to 1901.\n\nOn September 20, 1907, Jalajala was separated from Pililla and became an independent municipality. Quisao, on the other hand, remained a barrio of Pililla up to the present.\n\nIn 1918, the population of Pililla was 2,776 and Quisao was 814. In 1929, the place called Longos within the jurisdiction of Pililla was cleared by the majority of the tenant population of the town of Jalajala who transferred their homes to this site and whereon they founded a new community, thus avoiding their agrarian conflict with the plantation owner of Jalajala.\n\nOn September 24, 1929, Don Ananias Vicencio, a philanthropist in public documents, donated a tract of land containing approximately 15 hectares to the families of Manuel Roxas, Leoncio Carungay and Quintin Golliden, all of Jalajala, who shall distribute and assign free of charge and to the best interest of the residents, the said lot at Longos, Barrio Quisao, Municipality of Pililla. In 1939, this land was surveyed by Engr. Quintin Gollidon who provided the layout of this new community now called Barrio Malaya.\n\nOn December 13, 1942, the town of Quisao was attacked and pillaged by \"\"tulisanes\"\".\n\nDuring the liberation of the town on March 18, 1945, nearly 3/4 of all the houses and public buildings were either burned or destroyed by American and Filipino military bombing and shelling. The Japanese forces and Makapili fled to the mountains following the liberation of the town. The PCAU of the US Army reestablished the municipal government of Pililla on April 20, 1945 with the designation of Lucio Aquino, an active guerrilla leader, as the mayor.\n\nPililla is politically subdivided into nine barangays:\n\n\nIn the , the population of Pililla, Rizal, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2080503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080503", "title": "Kulosaari metro station", "text": "Kulosaari metro station\n\nKulosaari metro station (, ) is a ground-level station on the Helsinki Metro. It serves the island district of Kulosaari in East Helsinki. There are 50 bicycle and 36 car parking spaces at the station. Both lines M1 and M2 serve Kulosaari.\n\nThe station was opened on 1 June 1982, and is therefore one of the original stations on the system. Kulosaari underwent a facelift in 2011. The station was originally designed by Jaakko Ylinen and Jarmo Maunula. It is located 1.8 kilometres from Kalasatama metro station and 1.4 kilometres from Herttoniemi metro station.\n"}
{"id": "2080514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080514", "title": "Icaro Air", "text": "Icaro Air\n\nIcaro Air was an airline based in Quito, Ecuador. Its main base was Mariscal Sucre International Airport, Quito.\n\nFounded in 1971, Icaro operated domestic passenger service under Icaro Express.\n\nThe airline operated one aircraft, Boeing 737–236, leased from Safair. Following the collapse of the airline, the aircraft was returned to Safair.\n\nHistoric fleet included:\n\n\nOn 20 June 2011 Icaro filed for bankruptcy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080515", "title": "High Council of The Salvation Army", "text": "High Council of The Salvation Army\n\nThe High Council of The Salvation Army elects a new General in the event of a vacancy or prior to the retirement of the existing office holder. It can also remove a General who can no longer fulfill their duties. It is made up of the Chief of the Staff, all active Commissioners except the spouse of the General, and all active Territorial Commanders. It is not a governing body of the Salvation Army, and is regarded as having no continuity of existence between meetings.\n\nThe High Council was established by William Booth in 1904. Its purpose was to remove and replace a General who could no longer fulfill the duties of office for reasons of either ill health or general 'unfitness'. The Chief of the Staff could summon the Commissioners to vote on the issue, and if they found that the General was not capable of performing the role they would choose a successor. It was intended that in normal circumstances the choice of a successor would be made by the outgoing General. This happened only with the second General of The Salvation Army, Bramwell Booth, who succeeded William Booth upon his death in 1912.\n\nIn November 1928, Bramwell Booth was away from International Headquarters for several months due to illness. He was asked to resign, but refused. On 8 January 1929, the High Council met for the first time and voted 55 to 8 to remove the 73-year-old ill General.\n\nGeneral Booth took his case to court, and this lost him a great deal of respect. The Proceedings were delayed by the death of Lieut-Commissioner William J. Haines, Vice-President of the High Council, who collapsed during a High Council meeting and died 45 minutes later. \n\nAfter over two months of deliberations, the court ruled in favour of the High Council. The High Council met on 13 February 1929, and elected General Booth's Chief of the Staff Edward Higgins as the new General of The Salvation Army. \n\nIn 1931 the Salvation Army Act of the British Parliament was passed, with the support of General Higgins. The effects of this were that the General lost the power to choose a successor, fixed an age limit of 70 for the retirement of the General, and created a trustee company to hold the properties and other capital assets of The Salvation Army instead of the sole trusteeship of the General. \n\nThe most complete history of this time period of The Salvation Army has now been compiled in \"1929, A Crisis That Shaped The Salvation Army's Future\" by retired General John Larsson.\n\nHigh Councils to elect a new general have been held in 1934, 1939, 1946, 1954, 1963, 1969, 1974, 1977, 1981, 1986, 1993, 1994, 1999, 2002, 2006, 2011 and 2013.\n\nBritish law requires that the High Council meets in the United Kingdom, although it does not specify where.\n\nThe High Council established by William Booth in 1904 provided that ‘the person so to be elected may be either one of the members of the High Council or some other person’ Since 1980 nominees must be Salvation Army officers. To date, no General has ever been elected without being a member of the High Council.\n\nA woman has been elected as General on three occasions.\n\nThe High Council will first elect a president to preside over the council. After electing a president to guide its deliberations, the first task will be to establish the way it will work. The council will review the Orders of Procedure used by the previous High Councils, which distils in to some 70 numbered paragraphs the accrued experience of all past councils. After reviewing the document and making any amendments it feels necessary, the High Council will formally adopt the revised version as its own Orders of Procedure.\n\nA High Council is an exercise of spiritual discernment, and time is therefore set aside for worship, reflection and prayer. The collective prayer of the members will be that at the end of the process they might be able to echo the words of the Council of Jerusalem: ‘It seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us…’ (Acts 15:28).\n\nTime is also set aside for discussions about the challenges and opportunities that the Army faces around the world. Clarifying the issues the next General will have to grapple with helps to clarify the kind of leader the Army needs.\n\nThe High Council then moves to the nomination stage. Every member has the privilege of nominating someone to be a candidate for general. The only criteria laid down are that the person nominated must be an Officer in The Salvation Army and be under 70 years old. The Salvation Army has about 17,000 officers, which means 17,000 persons are eligible to be nominated. But on past precedent the forthcoming High Council is likely to nominate persons from within its own membership. Only those who are nominated by three or more members are deemed to have been nominated. Those who accept nomination become candidates – and it is from this panel of candidates that the High Council will be called to elect the next General.\n\nAt this stage, the High Council adjourns for a full day to enable the candidates and their spouses to prepare written answers to the questions that the Council has prepared. Candidates also work on speeches to present. \n\nWhen the Council begins its deliberations again, candidates and spouses of the candidates read out their answers to the questions. Through the process of questions and answers, the High Council seeks to get to know the candidates at greater depth and to learn more about their leadership style, their personalities and their views on subjects related to the Army and its ministry. Each candidate then gives a speech. No parameters regarding subject matter or length are laid down but speeches usually deal with the candidate’s vision for the Salvation Army if elected General.\n\nAfter the questions and speeches, the election itself begins. Each member in turn receives a voting paper from the President and in a secluded area places a tick/check against one of the names on the paper before putting it in a ballot box. The process is unhurried and can take up to an hour for each ballot. After the voting has been completed the tellers count the votes. The Salvation Army Act 1980 – by which the High Council is governed – stipulates\n\nGeneral John Larsson was due to retire at midnight on 1 April 2006. The Chief of the Staff issued summonses on 1 December 2005 to all who qualified as members on that date. The 2006 High Council was the second largest ever, with a membership of 100. \n\nThe High Council members met at Sunbury Court from 17 January until 19 January for a pre-High Council Conference led by the General. The Public Welcome to the High Council took place on Friday 20 January at the Methodist Central Hall in London. This gathering also incorporated a Farewell Salute to General John Larsson and Commissioner Freda Larsson.\n\nOn 28 January 2006, Shaw Clifton was elected. He took office on 2 April 2006.\n\nGeneral Shaw Clifton was due to retire at midnight on 1 April 2011. The Chief of the Staff issued summonses on 1 December 2010 to all who qualified as members on that date. The 2011 High Council was the largest ever, with a membership of 109. \n\nThe High Council members met at Sunbury Court from January 18, until 20 January for a pre-High Council Conference led by the General. The Public Welcome to the High Council took place on Saturday 22 January at the Lancaster London Hotel in London. This gathering also incorporated a Farewell Salute to General Shaw Clifton and Commissioner Helen Clifton.\n\nMonday, 31 January, it was announced Commissioner Linda Bond would be the next General of the Salvation Army. She assumed office on 2 April 2011.\n\nFollowing the unexpected retirement of General Linda Bond the High Council met on 29 July 2013 for the purpose of electing the 20th General of The Salvation Army. The 2013 High Council (the 18th High Council of The Salvation Army) is the largest in the history of The Salvation Army. There are 118 members – 64 women and 54 men – with an average age of 59 years. Fifty-four are attending a High Council for the first time. Twenty-six have appointments in the Americas and Caribbean Zone and 24 in the Africa Zone. The South Pacific and East Asia Zone supplies 21 members, Europe 18 and South Asia 15. Fourteen International Headquarters commissioners complete the total of 118 members.\n\nThe 2013 High Council was held at the gathering's third host venue – the Renaissance Hotel, Heathrow, to the west of London. The 1934 and 1939 High Councils were held at Clapton Congress Hall in east London, with all other High Councils since the first in 1929 taking place at Sunbury Court in west London, which was undergoing a major refurbishment at the time.\n\nOn 29 July 2013, the first official day of the High Council's meeting, the members elected:\n\nOn 31 July 2013, on the third day of the High Council's meeting, the members nominated the following people for general:\n\n\nCommissioner Clive Adams was nominated; however, he declined the nomination.\n\nOn 3 August 2013 the High Council elected Commissioner Andre Cox as the 20th General of The Salvation Army, who took office with immediate effect.\n\nThe High Council of 2018 elected Commissioner Brian Peddle, the current Chief of the Staff of The Salvation Army, as the next general to replace retiring General Andre Cox on 2 August 2018. As with the 2013 High Council, it was held at the Renaissance Hotel, Heathrow, to the west of London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080524", "title": "Destroy All Humans! (2005 video game)", "text": "Destroy All Humans! (2005 video game)\n\nDestroy All Humans! is a 2005 action-adventure video game developed by Pandemic Studios and published by THQ for PlayStation 2 and Xbox. The game is the first installment in the \"Destroy All Humans!\" franchise, and is set in 1959 in the United States, and parodies the lifestyles, pop culture, and political attitudes of this time period. The player controls Cryptosporidium 137 (a reference to the protozoan parasite \"Cryptosporidium\"), a member of the fictional Furon race of alien life, who has come to Earth to harvest DNA from humans to continue the cloning process of his species. \"Destroy All Humans!\" received a generally mixed to positive reception by critics. A full remake of the game is currently set for a July 28, 2020 release.\n\nThe game begins with a Furon, Cryptosporidium-136, hovering over a launch site with military personnel testing a rocket. The rocket is launched and destroys the ship carrying Crypto-136, and leaves him fatally wounded. Crypto-136 is later captured by the U.S. Army. Some time later, Cryptosporidium-137 travels to Earth with another Furon, Orthopox-13. Cryptosporidium (nicknamed 'Crypto') comes with the intention of rescuing 136, while Orthopox (nicknamed \"Pox\") desires to extract human brain stems for study. Crypto arrives at Turnipseed Farm in the Southern United States, where Pox mistakes cows for Earth's dominant life-form. The Majestic agency is alerted to the Furon presence when Crypto decimates an army brigade passing through the area. Pox, communicating with Crypto through a hologram-like device, then reveals to Crypto that the reason he requires human brain stems is because they contain pure Furon D.N.A. handed down to them by Furon scouts eons ago when the Furons stopped on Earth for \"shore leave\" following a war with Mars, which was rendered uninhabitable by the Furon Empire.\nAfter several missions in the Midwestern town of Rockwell and the California suburb of Santa Modesta, Crypto and Pox become aware of the Majestic, and begin crippling government attempts to stop them by performing acts such as destroying Area 42 with an atomic bomb and defeating his recurring foe, Armquist, the head of the army. Throughout the game, Crypto's various acts are covered up by the government and media, which attribute them either to freak accidents or to Communism.\n\nAfter being temporarily captured in Union Town, the game climaxes in Capitol City, where Crypto assassinates President Huffman and brutally slaughters all members of Congress. Soon, the U.S. government seemingly surrenders to the Furons. Crypto meets Silhouette, leader of Majestic, in front of the Capitol. After a brief scuffle with Silhouette, Crypto discovers that \"he\" is a woman. Silhouette unveils the Roboprez, which is a towering mech controlled by President Huffman's brain. Crypto defeats Roboprez in his flying saucer, and then defeats Silhouette in a final battle at the Octagon. As Silhouette dies, she reveals that there are other Majestic divisions all over the world. Crypto, however, is confident that without Silhouette's leadership, Majestic will be totally powerless to resist the Furon takeover.\n\nThe game ends with Huffman making a televised speech, assuring America that the recent events were the work of communists, who have poisoned the U.S. water supply, and that as a result testing centers have been set up all across the country to scan people for harmful toxins. People are then shown being herded reluctantly by Army soldiers into strange machines, apparently for brain stem extraction. Huffman is then revealed to be Crypto in disguise.\n\nFurons: Coming from the planet Furon, mistaken for Gorta in 'Destroy All Humans!' by the Majestic, in the Proxima Centauri system. Pox corrects the planet's name in 'Destroy All Humans! Path of the Furon'. The \"Furons\" are aliens that have a similar appearance to the Greys, aside from having mouths full of sharp teeth. Furons are named after diseases (such as Orthopox and Cryptosporidium), and are a highly advanced race who use their technology for harsh, unsympathetic science and vicious war. Unregulated atomic weaponry caused a fatal mutation in the Furon race whereby they could no longer reproduce due to their lack of genitalia. Using their advanced biotechnology, they began cloning themselves, rendering each Furon virtually immortal, memories and personality being technologically transferred to each new clone. However, with each new clone errors appeared in the genetic material, leading to unpredictable results. Without an infusion of uncorrupted Furon D.N.A., they will clone themselves into extinction.\n\n\"Destroy All Humans!\" is set in the United States in the year 1959 and consists of six settings; \"Turnipseed Farm\" (a Southern farm community, in Tennessee), \"Rockwell\" (a Nebraska town), \"Santa Modesta\" (a parody of Santa Monica), \"Area 42\" (a parody of Area 51 but based in New Mexico instead), \"Union Town\" (an Eastern seaboard industrial city) and \"Capitol City\" (a parody of Washington, D.C.).\nAll buildings and structures in these environments can be destroyed (save for trees and rocks), and humans can become alarmed by Crypto's presence at these locations. While some run or hide, others are armed and fight back. An alert system, much like \"Grand Theft Auto's\" \"wanted level\" denotes how much attention Crypto has attracted. Depending on the alert level, police, military, and eventually the Majestic will attempt to defend civilians from Crypto.\n\nNeutral NPC's frequently refer to pop culture of the late 1950s such as the Edsel, Marilyn Monroe and 'Ike' Dwight D. Eisenhower when scanned by crypto. In keeping with the cold war setting, hostile NPC's refer to crypto as a 'commie' with his various actions covered up in news stories as communist attacks.\n\nMilitary technology in the game is depicted as being far more advanced than it actually was in the 1950s, with the US Army having possession of sentry guns, automated anti-air batteries, gigantic, ultra-radioactive tesla coils, and mechanized walkers. The Majestic group also seems to be equipped with energy weapons, reverse-engineered Furon technology.\n\nThe hub of the game is the Furon mothership in orbit around Earth, which vaguely resembles the Alien mothership from \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\". From there players can receive missions, upgrade weapons, and view unlocked content. This is also the portal to each of the game's Earth settings.\n\nIn \"Destroy All Humans!\", players assume the role of Cryptosporidium 137 (Crypto for short), a warrior and member of the Furons—a race of war-like extraterrestrials with a large empire constantly seizing new worlds through conquest. After centuries of warfare against inferior species using unchecked nuclear weaponry left their species impotent and without genitalia, the Furons were unable to sexually reproduce and became forced to turn to cloning as a means of reproduction, as well as a process by which to achieve immortality. However, after generations of clones, the Furon DNA is degrading, and each clone is becoming less and less stable.\n\nFortunately for the Furons, one of their scout ships came across Earth many millennia ago while returning from the conquest of Mars. The Furon space travelers impregnated the \"nubile\" ancestors of the human race to \"let off a little steam\", inserting a strand of Furon DNA into the human gene pool.\n\nBecause of this, each human contains a small amount of Furon DNA in their genetic code. Crypto is sent to Earth to harvest this DNA from human brain stems, locate and rescue his previous clone, Cryptosporidium-136, and spearhead a Furon invasion of Earth. The game is set up in a sandbox fashion. The player has a selection of weapons and mental abilities at their disposal, as well as access to Crypto's flying saucer. \"Destroy All Humans!\" implements the Havok physics engine, allowing for ragdoll effects on bodies and destructible environments.\n\nCrypto possesses advanced Furon weaponry in both his flying saucer and on his person.\n\nThe saucer is equipped with a \"Death Ray\" which can burn humans, vehicles, and buildings; the \"Abducto Beam\", a tractor ray that can lift up people and objects and hurl them into the air; the Quantum Deconstructor; a highly powerful nuclear weapon that can launch radioactive bombs that utterly destroy everything in its radius; and the \"Sonic Boom\", a bomb that can explode on contact and shock the blast radius like a tremor.\n\nOn foot Crypto has an arsenal of four weapons, of which include the Zap-O-Matic, a gun that emits an electric charge, shocking its victims; the Anal Probe, a powerful rod that goes into the victim's rectum and uproots a DNA-enriched brain: the Disintegrator Ray, which turns the target's flesh and organs into ashes and renders only a charred skeleton; and the Ion Detonator, the Furon equivalent of a grenade launcher. He also is equipped with an upgradable jet pack to help him traverse long distances.\n\nThe Furons have a psychokinetic ability nicknamed \"HoloBob\" to imitate the appearance of any nearby human. This allows a Furon to travel amongst humans unnoticed. The HoloBob requires PSI energy, called \"concentration\" in the game, which can be continually replenished by reading the thoughts of unknowing humans or other animals. This disguise is not without flaw, as the Majestic have the ability to see through and destroy the disguise. Crypto will flash red when near a Majestic agent; if he comes too close, the disguise will vanish. Additionally, he is able to use an ability known as \"PK\" or PsychoKinesis that allows one to psychokinetically move objects around.\n\nThe game was conceived of by Matt Harding while he was working at Pandemic Studios, as after Microsoft rejected the more family-friendly game concept \"Oddballs\", he jokingly suggested \"a game where you kill everyone\", suggesting the title \"Destroy All Humans\". Being a science fiction fan, Harding even thought of using the concept of playing as an alien invader, something that he had not seen in a video game and served as a \"premise for getting to do mindless destruction that makes sense.” Harding never worked on the game, feeling he lacked the “energy or interest” to \"spend two years of [his] life writing a game about killing everyone\". He even contested why along with the on-foot action resembling \"Grand Theft Auto\", there were flying saucer missions - \"If you’ve got a spaceship, why would you ever get out?\" - but pushed for a satirical game, something the rest of Pandemic embraced by taking the game on a comedic approach. Harding left soon after on his Asian walkabout, and began recording some of the footage that eventually became the \"Where The Hell Is Matt?\" videos. The game also sponsored ECW One Night Stand (2005).\n\nDue to the game's success several sequels have been made: \"Destroy All Humans! 2\", which takes place in the 1960s and marks the first time Crypto invades across the globe, \"Destroy All Humans! Big Willy Unleashed\", a spinoff set in the 1970s in which Pox and Crypto run a fast-food chain, and \"Destroy All Humans! Path of the Furon\", which also takes place in the 1970s and begins with Crypto and Pox running a lucrative gambling casino called the \"Space Dust\".\n\nOn October 26, 2005, THQ announced that Fox Broadcasting has purchased the rights to the game and is planning a computer-animated comedy, based on the game, to air in prime time. Jim Dauterive, previously of \"King of the Hill\", will be a writer and executive producer of the TV version of \"Destroy All Humans!\" As of 2015, nothing has been unveiled. The show is also referenced in \"Destroy All Humans! 2\", in the Salad Days bonus video, in which Pox and Crypto reminisce on the past game, and talk about the possibilities of the game's future.\n\nOn June 7, 2019, THQ Nordic announced a remake of \"Destroy All Humans!\", set for a release in 2020 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. The remake is in development at Black Forest Games and will feature content that was cut from the original release. The remake is built in Unreal Engine 4.\n\n\"Destroy All Humans!\" received \"generally positive\" and \"mixed or average\" reviews, according to review aggregator Metacritic.\n\nGameZone enjoyed the depth of destruction: \"the levels themselves have the potential for a lot of damage\". IGN praised the presentation of the game, stating \"Phenomenal. Good behind the scenes extras. Great cutscenes. Excellent layout. Really, nicely done,\" but they thought the game could use a more in-depth stealth aspect: \"As it happens, not developing stealth to its fullest potential turns out to be one part of a greater underlying problem with Destroy All Humans.\" TeamXbox cited excellent graphics, saying that \"\"Destroy All Humans!\" is delightful to gaze at.\"\n\n\"Maxim\" gave it a score of eight out of ten and said, \"Set up like \"Grand Theft Alien\", there are tons of missions to complete, though you can also just roam around, killing filthy humans and destroying their stuff.\" \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" gave it four stars out of five and said, \"The freedom to create chaos is terrific but some missions lack variety.\" \"The New York Times\" also gave it a favorable review, but commented that \"It's a shame the gameplay lacks the almost flawless perfection of Destroy All Humans' story and presentation.\" \"Detroit Free Press\" gave it three stars out of four, calling it \"Goofy fun, and that makes up for a lot of its failings. But I couldn't quite forgive the occasional tedium and fairly short length enough to give it a better rating.\"\n\nThe game sold more than 1 million copies by March 2006.\n"}
{"id": "2080525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080525", "title": "Herttoniemi metro station", "text": "Herttoniemi metro station\n\nHerttoniemi metro station (, ) is a ground-level station on the Helsinki Metro. It serves the district of Herttoniemi in East Helsinki. There are 193 bicycle and 148 car parking spaces at the station. Both lines M1 and M2 serve Herttoniemi.\n\nAs the station was opened on 1 June 1982, Herttoniemi is one of the system's original stations. It was designed by Jaakko Ylinen and Jarmo Maunula. It is located 1.4 kilometres from Kulosaari metro station and 1.4 kilometres from Siilitie metro station.\n"}
{"id": "2080528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080528", "title": "The Bartons Arms", "text": "The Bartons Arms\n\nThe Bartons Arms () is a public house in the High Street (part of the A34) in the Newtown area of Aston, Birmingham, England.\n\nBuilt in 1900-1901 by noted pub architects partnership James and Lister Lea for Mitchells & Butlers, it is a grade II* listed building, and is on the Campaign for Real Ale's National Inventory of Historic Pub Interiors.\n\nThe pub is known for its wall-to-wall Minton-Hollins tiles and its snob screens, which allowed middle class drinkers to see working class drinkers in an adjacent bar, but not to be seen by them. The current public bar was originally divided into three. There are function rooms upstairs, originally for billiards and club use.\n\nLaurel and Hardy stayed there in May 1954, while appearing at the adjacent Aston Hippodrome (now demolished, replaced by The Drum Arts Centre), and were photographed serving beer from behind the bar.\n\nThe pub features in the 1999 Atom Egoyan Birmingham-set film \"Felicia's Journey\". It also features in the 2006 novel by Ron Dawson, \"The Last Viking: The Untold Story of the World's Greatest Heist\"; as the gang of robbers meet in the pub.\n\nIt was purchased in 2002 by Oakham Ales who restored the building to its former greatness before reopening it in 2003, after three years out-of-use. On 28 July 2006, the pub was damaged by fire, reportedly caused by an electrical fault.\n\nDuring the 2011 England riots, the pub was looted, windows were smashed, and fires started, albeit quickly doused by the manager, Wichai Thumjaron. Up to eight shots were fired at police who attended the incident.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080530", "title": "Willowbrook Amphitheatre", "text": "Willowbrook Amphitheatre\n\nWillowbrook Amphitheatre, also known as Chief Colorow's Cave, is a cave-like structure composed of Paleozoic Age Fountain Formation sandstone. The top is open to the sky. Willowbrook Amphitheatre is located in the Willowbrook subdivision in Jefferson County, near Morrison, Colorado, south of Red Rocks Park and Red Rocks Amphitheatre. It is located on private land, and is restricted to the use of the association residents for weddings and local events.\n\nColorow's Cafe was named for Chief Colorow who is said to have used the cave along with his band for temporary shelter during his summer visits.\n"}
{"id": "2080535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080535", "title": "Jonathan Antin", "text": "Jonathan Antin\n\nJonathan Antin is the former owner of two Los Angeles hair salons, Jonathan Salon West Hollywood and Jonathan Salon Beverly Hills. His life as an entrepreneur and a celebrity hair stylist was the basis for reality television series \"Blow Out\". He was the judge on the third season of \"Shear Genius\" and has appeared on other television shows. He judged the 2007 Miss USA pageant. He developed a hair care product line, which broke QVC's record for the top hair care launch in 2005.\n\nAntin grew up in Beverly Hills. His mother is an interior designer and his father, Michael, is an artist. He is the brother of writer and producer Steve Antin and Robin Antin, who is the founder of The Pussycat Dolls, a burlesque and dance troupe. As a young boy, he was inspired by the movie \"Shampoo\" to become a hair stylist. Antin says that he was a bit of a ruffian with tattoos, and \"always the black sheep at Beverly Hills High.\" He dropped out of high school to attend a beauty school.\n\nHe married Sescie Karabuykov, a boutique owner, about 2006. They have a son, Asher, who was born about November 2005 and a daughter, Jocie, born in 2007. Antin is a basketball coach for his son's team.\n\nAntin was a student at the Fairfax Beauty Academy, and then worked at a salon in the Beverly Center in West Hollywood. He opened a salon when he was 23 years old. By 1999, he was considered one of Hollywood's top stylists and has made hairstyle changes needed by a client to suit a part, such as hair styles from different periods. His clients have included Madonna, Tiger Woods, Steven Tyler, k.d. lang, Ricky Martin, and Tobey Maguire. He created a hair care line, \"Jonathan Product\", which broke a record at QVC in 2005 for the most successful hair care launch, having sold 35,000 units in one hour. Also sold in retail stores, the line became a multi-million dollar business. In 2010, he sold his shares of the company.\n\nAfter Jonathan West Hollywood, he opened Jonathan Salon Beverly Hills. He later sold both salons and for a time was engaged by his clients for high-priced house calls. He has since returned to Beverly Hills with a salon, Jonathan Antin Salon. He is a spokesman for MINDBODY Salon, a salon business software company, for which he hosts hair-advice Q&As on Twitter for an hour each month.\n\nThe first season of the reality series \"Blow Out\", which follows Antin's life, was filmed in 2004. It takes place in \"Jonathan Salon Beverly Hills\", opened for the show, staffed by 12 stylists and assistants. The show was not received well by the press, who were critical of his management style, hairdo, and speech patterns. He was also said to be a narcissist.\n\nChristopher Kelly said, \"Antin's droning, cooler-than-thou voice drips with disdain. He glowers at his employees, berates them for giving bad haircuts, complains that they aren't bringing in enough new clients. Before every commercial break, someone is on the verge of tears and/or about to be fired.\" Antin acknowledged his outbursts, and stated that he was apologetic at the time. On the show, Antin tells his employees that it's because he respects them so much that he rides them, and he really does love them. In its first season Jay Leno and Kirsten Dunst appeared on the show.\n\nHe was a judge in 2010 on third season of the reality-series \"Shear Genius\". Antin joined the cast of L.A. Hair in 2015.\n\nSince 2004, he appeared on an episode of Bravo's makeover show \"Queer Eye for the Straight Guy\", in American Express television commercials, and in 2010 on the tenth season of \"The Biggest Loser\", giving makeovers to the show's final six contestants. He appeared on \"The Millionaire Matchmaker\" in 2015.\n\nHe judged the Miss USA 2007 Pageant.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080544", "title": "Siilitie metro station", "text": "Siilitie metro station\n\nSiilitie metro station (, - \"Hedgehog Road\") is a ground-level station on the Helsinki Metro. It serves the northern part of the district of Herttoniemi in East Helsinki. There are 117 bicycle and 111 car parking spaces at the station. Both lines M1 and M2 serve Siilitie.\n\nSiilitie was one of the original stations on the system, and was opened on the first day of operation on 1 June 1982. It was designed by Jaakko Ylinen and Jarmo Maunula. It is located 1.3 kilometres north-east of Herttoniemi metro station and 2.1 kilometres west of Itäkeskus metro station.\n\nSiilitie (unofficially translated into English as \"Hedgehog Road\") is a veritable oddity in the station naming scheme of the Helsinki metro. As the station is named after the street on which it is located, Siilitie's name is unconventional, because stations on the Helsinki metro tend to be named either after the neighborhood, university, or square which it serves.\n"}
{"id": "2080548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080548", "title": "Bourdon (organ pipe)", "text": "Bourdon (organ pipe)\n\nBourdon, bordun, or bordone normally denotes a stopped flute/flue type of pipe in an organ characterized by a dark tone, strong in fundamental, with a quint transient but relatively little overtone development. Its half-length construction make it especially well suited to low pitches, economical as well, and the name is derived from the French word for 'bumblebee' or 'buzz'.\n\nThis stop is most commonly found in the manuals and the pedal at 16′ pitch. In lower registers it provides foundation but does not provide much pitch definition. It is also found in the pedal division at 32′ pitch, where its roll of sound can actually shake the building it is installed in. When installed in the pedal division, it is often known as \"Subbass\" or \"Soubasse\" (Fr.).\n\nThe Bourdon is also frequently found at 8′, especially in French organs, and is equivalent to the German Gedackt and English Stopped Diapason, which give a similar sound. Although varying between builders, the Bourdon stop is usually fairly soft and neutral, but colorful in the tenor/alto register. \nThe pipes can be built of wood or metal, but are overwhelmingly constructed of wood in modern organ building (French makers from Cavaillé-coll on prefer metal). They are thick walled, and generally square in cross section, with a high mouth cut-up to produce the fluty tone. Bourdon is a stopped pipe, having an airtight stopper fitted into the top. This makes the tone one octave lower than a pipe of open construction (they are only one half the length of an open pipe of the same pitch), and also eliminates the development of even-numbered harmonics (\"squaring off\" the timbre), helping to create the characteristic tone quality.\n\nThis stop is very common in church organs and indeed theatre organs. In an organ so small as to have only one 16′ stop in the pedal division, it will almost invariably be a bourdon, as the unassertive tone works well under soft or loud combinations, and blends well with all sounds of the organ.\n\n'Bourdon' has many spellings and German organ builders will often use \"Bordun\", or even \"Untersatz\" (typically when it is in the pedals) on the stop knob for this rank. \"Subbass\" was originally a stop of somewhat different design than the Bourdon, but the word is accepted today as a synonym for a Bourdon in the pedals. The Italian spelling is \"Bordone\".\n"}
{"id": "2080562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080562", "title": "Derek Morris (academic)", "text": "Derek Morris (academic)\n\nSir Derek James Morris (born 23 December 1945) is former Chairman of the Competition Commission (formerly the Monopolies and Mergers Commission) and was the Provost of Oriel College, Oxford until Moira Wallace replaced him in 2013.\n\nMorris was educated at Harrow County School for Boys, studied PPE at St Edmund Hall, Oxford and then took a D.Phil. in Economics at Nuffield College, Oxford before taking up a Research Fellowship at the Centre for Business and Industrial Studies at University of Warwick. From 1970 until 1998 he was Fellow and Tutor in Economics at Oriel. This included three years on secondment as Economic Director of the National Economic Development Council. From 1984 to 1998 he was Chairman of Oxford Economic Forecasting Ltd, and is currently a Governor of the National Institute of Economic and Social Research. He joined the Monopolies Commission in 1991, becoming Chairman in 1998.\n\nHe has published widely on economic topics, most recently on economic reform in Chinese enterprises. In addition, he has acted as adviser to the Asian Development Bank on enterprise reform in Central Asia.\nHe was Knighted in the 2003 New Year Honours. In 2004, he was named to head a government-sponsored review into the actuarial profession in the United Kingdom, known as the Morris Review.\n\nFrom 2007 to 2013 he was a Member of the Committee for Standards in Public Life (formerly the Nolan committee); from 2006 to 2016 the Chairman of the Trustees of the Oxford University Pension Fund; and is now Chairman of The Cheviot Trust (a not-for-profit, multi-employer pension scheme); from 2006 to 2013 a Non-Executive Director of Lucida plc (an insurance company which specialises in buying out large scale pension funds) and then its chairman. While at Oriel he was Chairman of Oxford University's College Contributions Committee (which recommends redistribution of resources from colleges with high endowment to those with low endowment); and Chairman of the Advisory Board for the Centre for Business Taxation at Oxford University. He is currently also a senior economic advisor th Frontier Economics, and under the auspices of the Cairncross Foundation, lead advisor to the Chinese Government on economic reform.\n\nHis first novel, 'Pawn's Gambit' (under the pseudonym Harry Armstrong) was shortlisted for 'Political Thriller of the Year'.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2080575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080575", "title": "LATAM Ecuador", "text": "LATAM Ecuador\n\nLATAM Ecuador, formerly LAN Ecuador (Aerolane Líneas Aéreas Nacionales del Ecuador S.A.), is a subsidiary of LATAM Airlines, based in Guayaquil, Ecuador. Operates scheduled passenger services using leased LAN aircraft.\n\nLATAM Ecuador was established in July 2002 as LAN Ecuador and started operations on 28 April 2003. It is owned by Translloyd (55%) and LAN Airlines (45%).\n\nOn 24 December 2008, LATAM Ecuador received approval to begin domestic operations, which were launched by the end of March 2009 with Airbus A318 aircraft.\n\nLATAM Airlines announced that the purchase of 26 Boeing 787's would be distributed between LATAM Chile, LATAM Perú, LATAM Argentina, and LATAM Ecuador. The number to enter the LAN Ecuador fleet is unknown at this time, but it is likely the Boeing 787's will replace the ageing Boeing 767-300's.\n\nLATAM Ecuador codeshares with the following airlines:\n\nAs of January 2020, the LATAM Ecuador fleet consists of the following aircraft:\n\nThe airline previously operated the following aircraft:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080580", "title": "Ultimate bungalow", "text": "Ultimate bungalow\n\nAn ultimate bungalow is a large and detailed Craftsman style home, based on the bungalow form. The style is associated with such California architects as Greene and Greene, Bernard Maybeck and Julia Morgan. Some of the hallmarks of Greene and Greene's ultimate bungalows include the use of tropical woods such as mahogany, ebony and teak, and use of inlays of wood, metal and mother-of-pearl. As in their other major projects, Charles and Henry Greene—and to a lesser extent Bernard Maybeck and a few other Craftsman-era architects who built such homes—sometimes designed the majority of furniture, textiles, fixtures and other interior details of these homes specifically for their location both in the house and in the larger landscape.\n\nThe term \"ultimate bungalow\" was popularized by its use as a chapter title in the 1977 book \"Greene & Greene, Architecture as a Fine Art\" by Randall Makinson. The houses discussed in the chapter were the Greenes' Robert Blacker, David Gamble, Charles Pratt, Freeman Ford, William Thorsen, Earle C. Anthony, Dr. Crow, Willam Spinks, and William Lawless residences.\n\nThe ultimate bungalows include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2080584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080584", "title": "George S. Clinton", "text": "George S. Clinton\n\nGeorge Stanley Clinton (born June 17, 1947) is an American composer, songwriter, arranger, and session musician.\n\nClinton was born in Chattanooga, Tennessee. His musical career began in Nashville while earning degrees in music and drama at Middle Tennessee State University. After graduation, Clinton moved to Los Angeles and became a staff writer for Warner Brothers Music, while arranging and performing session work. He later recorded four albums for MCA, Elektra Records, ABC, and Arista Records.\n\nThe critically acclaimed George Clinton Band attracted the attention of a movie producer, giving Clinton the opportunity to score his first film, \"Cheech and Chong's Still Smokin'\", and later, \"Cheech and Chong's The Corsican Brothers\".\n\nClinton's most recognizable scores are probably \"\" (and its sequels); the martial arts fantasy \"Mortal Kombat\" and its sequel \"\"; and Showtime's series \"Red Shoe Diaries\". His awards include a 2002 Grammy nomination, a 2007 Emmy nomination, and eight BMI Film Music Awards. He was honored with the Richard Kirk Award at the 2007 BMI Film and TV Awards. The award is given annually to a composer who has made significant contributions to film and television music.\n\nClinton has also written several concert works and three musicals. He serves as an adviser at the Sundance Institute and used to be the Chair of the Film Scoring Department at Berklee College of Music in Boston.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080588", "title": "Styles of house music", "text": "Styles of house music\n\nChicago hard house was developed by DJs such as Bad Boy Bill, DJ Lynnwood, and DJ Irene, Richard \"Humpty\" Vission, mixing elements of Chicago house, funky house and hard house. Similar to gabber or hardcore techno from the Netherlands, this was associated with the \"rebel\", underground club subculture of the time. These three producers introduced new production approaches and sounds in late 20th century became more prominent and widely used during first decade of the 21st century.\n\nOutsider house (also referred to as outsider dance or lo-fi house) is a genre of electronic music combining elements of house music, techno and noise music. The music is often rough-sounding and \"lo-fi\".\n\nThese genres have origins partly in house music, and may have 'house' in the title, but they belong to other genres of electronic music.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080594", "title": "Amelogenesis", "text": "Amelogenesis\n\nAmelogenesis is the formation of enamel on teeth and begins when the crown is forming during the advanced bell stage of tooth development after dentinogenesis, forms a first layer of dentin. Although dentin must be present for enamel to be formed, ameloblasts must also be for dentinogenesis to continue. A message is sent from the newly differentiated odontoblasts to the inner enamel epithelium (IEE), causing the epithelial cells to further differentiate into active secretory ameloblasts. Dentinogenesis is in turn dependent on signals from the differentiating IEE in order for the process to continue. This prerequisite is an example of the biological concept known as \"reciprocal induction\", in this instance between mesenchymal and epithelial cells.\n\nAmelogenesis is considered to have three stages. The first stage is known as the inductive stage, the second is the secretory stage, and the third stage is known as the maturation stage. During the inductive stage, ameloblast differentiation from IEE is initiated. Proteins and an organic matrix form a partially mineralized enamel in the secretory stage. The maturation stage completes enamel mineralization.\n\nIn the inductive stage, the morphodifferentiation phase the shape of the crown is determined by the bell stage of tooth development. There is a basal lamina between the IEE and the dental papilla. At this time, the dentin is not mineralized. The IEE cuboidal or low columnar with centralized nuclei and poorly developed Golgi complexes.\n\nThe differentiation phase of the Induction stage is initiated by the presence of newly formed predentin. The IEE cells then elongate and become preameloblasts. There is a shift in polarity. Each preameloblast elongates and becomes an postmitotic, polarized, secretory ameloblast. However, there are no Tomes' process yet. It is at this stage that a signal is sent from the newly differentiated ameloblasts back across the dentinoenamel junction (DEJ) to stimulate dentinogenesis.\n\nIn the secretory stage, ameloblasts are polarized columnar cells. In the rough endoplasmic reticulum of these cells, enamel proteins are released into the surrounding area and contribute to what is known as the enamel matrix, which is then partially mineralized by the enzyme alkaline phosphatase. When this first layer is formed, the ameloblasts move away from the interface with dentin, allowing for the development of Tomes' processes at the end of the cell which is in contact with the DEJ. Tomes' process is the term given to the end of the cell which lays down the crystals of the enamel matrix. The Tomes' processes are angled, which introduces differences in crystallite orientation, and hence structure. Enamel formation continues around the adjoining ameloblasts, resulting in a walled area, or pit, that houses a Tomes' process, and also around the end of each Tomes' process, resulting in a deposition of enamel matrix inside of each pit. The matrix within the pit will eventually become an enamel rod, and the walls will eventually become interrod enamel. The only distinguishing factor between the two is the orientation of the calcium crystals.\n\nIn the maturation stage, the ameloblasts transport substances used in the formation of enamel. Microscopically, the most notable aspect of this phase is that these cells become striated, or have a ruffled border. These signs demonstrate that the ameloblasts have changed their function from production, as in the secretory stage, to transportation. Proteins used for the mineralization process compose most of the material transported into the matrix, importantly amelogenins, ameloblastins, enamelins, and tuftelins. The Ca2+ mainly comes from the enamel organ, and not the dental papilla, by either passive, extracellular transportation or active, intracellular transportation. The active route is controlled by ameloblasts so the site of mineralization can have a tightly controlled climate, including modulation of proteins that inhibit mineralization (e.g. Serum-derived Albumin) and concentration of ions.\n\nAs enamel is secreted, some mineralisation occurs by Ca2+ deposition between nanospheres of amelogenins forming crystallites. Tuftelin also is suggested to have a role in directing the initial deposition.\n\nThe undermineralised, immature enamel containing long, thin prisms of hydroxyapatite, now matures. As the prisms in the enamel grow in thickness but not length, proteins (amelogenins and most non-amelogenins) are removed from the matrix to give more space for hydroxyapatite deposition - mature crystals are hexagonal and 25x75nm and can run the whole length of the enamel (up to 2.5mm). The mineralising enamel becomes progressively less porous. During this process, enamelins and tuftelin are left in the enamel (responsible for enamel tufts).\n\nBy the end of this stage, the enamel has completed its mineralization. Enamel mineralization only occurs once (as ameloblasts are lost with eruption within the reduced enamel epithelium); therefore after amelogenesis, enamel production has been finalized. This is in contrast to dentin formation which occurs throughout life (secondary dentin production).\n\n"}
{"id": "2080595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080595", "title": "Elko Regional Airport", "text": "Elko Regional Airport\n\nElko Regional Airport , formerly Elko Municipal Airport, is a mile west of downtown Elko, in Elko County, Nevada.\n\nThe airport was named J.C. Harris Field in 1975 in honor of Jess C. Harris, a sheriff from Elko known as \"The Flying Sheriff\".\n\nOn April 6, 1926, when it was called Elko Airport, the airfield was the terminus for the first scheduled air mail run in the United States, flown by Varney Air Lines. Varney was a predecessor of United Air Lines.\n\nBy 1931 Elko was a stop on a passenger flight between New York City and San Francisco. In a 1931 timetable United Airlines predecessor National Air Transport is shown flying New York City–Cleveland–Toledo–Chicago, connecting to Boeing Air Transport's flight to Iowa City–Des Moines–Omaha–Lincoln–North Platte–Cheyenne–Rock Springs–Salt Lake City–Elko, and on to Reno–Sacramento–Oakland. Scheduled time of this flight was 31 hours westbound and 28 hours eastbound. United later served Elko with Boeing 247s, Douglas DC-3s, Douglas DC-6Bs and Convair 340s.\n\nStarting in November 1977 United Boeing 737-200s operated round trip San Francisco - Reno - Elko - Ely - Salt Lake City; in 1982 United ended this flight, which until 1970 had used Douglas DC-6Bs, United's last piston powered service in the U.S. In 1970 United replaced the DC-6 service with Convair 580s operated by Frontier Airlines (1950-1986); the flights used the \"UA\" airline code until 737s took over.\n\nCasino Express Airlines was based in Elko and supported the local casino industry, flying scheduled charter Boeing 737-200s from Elko to many cities starting in the late 1980s. In 1994 Casino Express scheduled weekend only flights nonstop between Elko and Portland, OR and Seattle with McDonnell Douglas MD-80s. Casino Express eventually changed its name to Xtra Airways and later ended jet service to Elko.\n\nRoyal West Airlines flew BAe 146-200s nonstop to Las Vegas in 1987.\n\nSkyWest Airlines began serving Elko as an independent commuter carrier in the early 1980s, flying Swearingen Metros to Reno, Salt Lake City and Ely. By the late 1980s SkyWest was serving the airport as Western Express for Western Airlines via code sharing agreement with flights mainly to Salt Lake City on Metros. Following the merger of Western into Delta Air Lines, SkyWest became a Delta Connection carrier and in 1989 was flying Embraer EMB-120 Brasilias to Salt Lake City in addition to Metro service. SkyWest continues to serve the airport as a Delta Connection carrier and is the only airline at Elko.\n\nElko Regional Airport covers and has two asphalt runways: 5/23 is 7,214 x 150 ft (2,199 x 46 m) and 12/30 is 2,871 x 60 ft (875 x 18 m).\n\nIn the year ending August 31, 2007 the airport had 16,520 aircraft operations, average 45 per day: 73% general aviation, 27% air taxi and <1% military. 69 aircraft were then based at this airport: 77% single-engine, 10% multi-engine, 6% jet and 7% helicopter.\n\nSkyWest (Delta Connection) flies Bombardier CRJ-200s to Delta Air Lines' hub at Salt Lake City International Airport.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080605", "title": "Tanada effect", "text": "Tanada effect\n\nThe Tanada effect refers to the adhesion of root tips to glass surfaces. It is believed to involve electric potentials. It is named for the scientist who first described the effect, Takuma Tanada.\n\nThe phenomenon was observed while Dr. Tanada was rinsing glassware and noticed that excised root tips occasionally stuck to pyrex beakers. Upon investigating the phenomenon closely he determined that this process could be studied in a mixture of ATP, ascorbate, auxin, magnesium, manganese and potassium. The tips would stick when the beaker was swirled slowly. \n\nMost importantly, the reaction was light dependent. Exposure to red light would cause the tips to stick, while exposure to far-red would allow them to release. This simple experiment was indicative of phytochrome function, and the rapid nature of the response suggested that changes in bioelectric potential were seminal events in phytochrome signal propagation.\n\nRoot tips stick to glass surfaces because they acquire a positive electrostatic charge due to some unknown effect from exposure to red light. The glass surface has a negative charge due to adsorbed phosphate ions. The opposite charges attract each other.\n\nThis phenomenon is the first reported generation of a bioelectric potential by a photomorphogenic pigment.\n\nSeveral years later, Dr. Tanada found that the electric charge is generated by the trace element boron. Root tips from plants deficient in boron fail to stick to glass. In a dilute solution of boric acid, these tips gradually stick to the glass.\n"}
{"id": "2080608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080608", "title": "James Axler", "text": "James Axler\n\nJames Axler is a house name used by the publishing company Gold Eagle Publishing, the action adventure series published by Harlequin Enterprises Ltd.\n\nThe name was first used for the \"Deathlands\" series, which began in 1986 with \"Pilgrimage to Hell\", co-written by Christopher Lowder (under the pseudonym \"Jack Adrian\") and Laurence James. James went on to write the next 32 novels before dying on 9 February 2000. Under his own name and under the pen names James Darke, James McPhee, and James Axler, he also wrote books for the series \"Dark Future,\" \"Earth Blood,\" \"Galactic Security Service\" and \"Survival 2000,\" as well as a number of independent novels and short stories.\n\nThe second writer to work under the Axler pen name was prolific author Mark Ellis. A comics creator and writer, Ellis created the cult-favorite character Death Hawk as well as adapting popular properties such as Doc Savage and The Wild Wild West.\n\nEllis contributed to Gold Eagle's The Executioner series and wrote three novels in the \"Deathlands\" series, with uncredited contributions to two others. In 1996 he created the popular \"Outlanders\" series. He has produced more books as \"James Axler\" than any other writer.\n\n\n\n\nMore information about this series and the above Outlanders titles is available as part of the Outlanders article.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080610", "title": "Rickie Weeks Jr.", "text": "Rickie Weeks Jr.\n\nRickie Darnell Weeks Jr. (born September 13, 1982) is an American former professional baseball second baseman. He has played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Milwaukee Brewers, Seattle Mariners, Arizona Diamondbacks and Tampa Bay Rays. He was named an MLB All-Star in 2011.\n\nWeeks bats and throws right-handed. Until the 2009 season, Weeks had a distinctive batting stance similar to that of Gary Sheffield, waggling his bat heavily before swinging. The waggle is still present, but noticeably less aggressive. Weeks pointed to this change when asked about his improved presence at the plate in 2009. While primarily a second baseman throughout his career, Weeks transitioned to left field in 2015 and played first base in his final season.\n\nBorn and raised in Altamonte Springs, Florida, Weeks attended Lake Brantley High School. At Lake Brantley, Weeks played baseball, but also played football as a cornerback and wide receiver for a season. Weeks then attended Southern University in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. As a sophomore in 2002, he batted .495 with 20 home runs, winning the NCAA Division I batting title. The next year, he batted .479 with 16 home runs, winning a second straight batting title and finishing his career with a .465 batting average (254 of 546), highest in NCAA history. In 2003, he also was named Baseball America College Player of the Year and the Golden Spikes Award, given annually to the top amateur player. The Milwaukee Brewers selected him second overall in the 2003 MLB Draft.\n\nWeeks signed a contract with a $3.6 million signing bonus. He made his major league debut on September 15, 2003.\n\nWeeks did not become a full-time player for the Brewers until June 2005, when he was recalled from the Triple-A Nashville Sounds, despite playing much of the 2005 season with a thumb injury. In his first full MLB season in 2005, Weeks had a batting average of .239 to go with 13 home runs and 15 stolen bases in 96 games. These HR/SB number are consistent with his minor league totals (playing in 209 games) of 21 home runs and 24 stolen bases. In 2006, Weeks hit .279 with 8 home runs, 34 RBIs, and 19 stolen bases in 95 games.\n\nWeeks returned to the Nashville Sounds on July 31, 2007, since he was batting below .200 after returning from a wrist injury.\nIn 2008, he had the lowest fielding percentage (.975) and the most errors (15) of all NL second basemen. On offense, however, Weeks scored 46.6% of the time he reached base, second-best in the NL.\n\nIn Game 1 of the 2008 NL Division Series, Weeks made a key error in the third inning that led to three unearned runs scored by the Phillies in Philadelphia's 3–1 victory. In Game 3, Weeks injured his knee while trying to beat out a throw at first base. He underwent surgery the next day to remove torn cartilage from his left knee.\n\nOn February 3, 2009, Weeks and the Brewers reached a one-year deal worth $2.45 million, thereby avoiding salary arbitration. Weeks could have earned an additional $100,000 in performance bonuses based on plate appearances from 575 to 650.\n\nIn early 2009, sabermetrician Bill James wrote in John Dewan's \"The Fielding Bible Volume II,\" that Weeks should be moved to a position other than second base, as he had 44 defensive misplays that season. Dewan ranked Weeks the worst starting second baseman in the majors. Advanced metrics in 2008 however saw him as being only slightly below average.\n\nBack atop the lineup to begin the 2009 season, Weeks had a .281/.333/.486 start with five home runs in April. On May 18, 2009, Weeks was diagnosed with a torn muscle in his left wrist, and missed the remainder of the 2009 season. At the time of his injury, Weeks was tied with Prince Fielder for the team lead in home runs.\n\nPlaying in 160 games, Weeks recorded his finest season as a pro, and perhaps the best all-around season a Brewer second baseman has ever had. On June 12, 2010, Weeks tallied his 500th hit at Miller Park and received a standing ovation. Weeks finished with a career-high 29 home runs and 83 RBIs, a .269 average, and a strong .366 on-base percentage. His WAR of 6.0 rated 2nd among all regular second basemen, behind only Robinson Cano. He led the NL in at bats (651), plate appearances (754), and hit by pitch (25), and was second in runs scored (112).\n\nOn February 16, 2011, Weeks signed a contract extension for 4 years at $38 million. The deal includes an option for a 5th year provided Weeks is an everyday player in 2013 and 2014, and could raise the total value of the contract to $50 million.\n\nWeeks was voted by the fans to be the starting second baseman for the National League in the 2011 All-Star Game. Weeks sustained a severe ankle sprain while legging out an infield single in July. Weeks was placed on the DL until early September, and his offensive production was significantly hampered down the stretch. On September 27, in the second to last game of the regular season, Weeks hit one of the longest home runs ever hit at Miller Park, off the stadium club windows in left field. It was his first home run since his return from the DL, and his 20th of the season. He ended his regular season at .269 with 20 home runs. Advanced defensive metrics pegged him as a league-average defender at the keystone, and his WAR of 3.3 was good for 3rd in the National League.\n\nDespite a slow start in April and May 2012, Weeks rebounded beginning in June and posted typical power numbers, albeit with a dip in his on-base totals, which had been a hallmark of his value to that point. Weeks had a poor 2013 season, posting career lows in nearly all major offensive categories. A torn hamstring ended his season in August, and Scooter Gennett replaced him at second base.\n\nIn the 2014 season, his contract year with Milwaukee, Weeks has assumed the right-handed part of Milwaukee's productive second base platoon, starting versus all left-handed starting pitchers. Although over only 286 plate appearances, he returned to pre-2012 form hitting .274/.357/.452. With Gennett, Brewers second basemen ranked fourth in the National League in Wins Above Replacement, and 11th league-wide. After the 2014 season, the Brewers declined his contract option ending his ten-year tenure with the Brewers.\n\nWeeks signed with the Seattle Mariners on a one-year, $2 million contract on February 13, 2015. Weeks received sporadic playing time, and had a .167 batting average with three extra base hits in 95 plate appearances through early June. He was designated for assignment on June 13, and released on June 21.\n\nOn February 27, 2016, he signed a minor league contract with the Arizona Diamondbacks. On April 2, 2016, it was announced that Weeks made Arizona's 2016 opening day roster.\n\nOn February 3, 2017, Weeks signed a minor league contract with the Tampa Bay Rays that included an invitation to spring training. On April 2, 2017 the Tampa Bay Rays announced Weeks had made the opening day roster and would platoon at first base with Logan Morrison. Weeks went on the DL on June 9 for a shoulder injury and was released on July 24. For the season, Weeks had a slash line of .216/.321/.340/ hitting 2 homeruns in 37 games (112 plate appearances) striking out 49 times. For the season, he had the highest strikeout percentage against left-handed pitchers (42.9%).\n\nWeeks married Tiphany Easterling on January 18, 2014, in Miami, Florida. Weeks is the son of Richard and Valeria Weeks. Week's father Richard played college baseball for Seton Hall University and Stetson University. His grandfather was an outfielder in the Negro Leagues during the 1940s, and his sister Kaisha was an NCAA Regional Finalist at Southern University in track. Weeks's brother Jemile Weeks was drafted by the Brewers in 2005 out of high school, but never signed with them, choosing to attend the University of Miami instead. The Oakland Athletics drafted Jemile in the first round of the 2008 MLB Draft twelfth overall.\n\nIn 2005, Weeks signed a sponsorship contract with sportswear company 3N2, which designed a shoe for him. In 2009, Weeks was voted \"Sexiest Baseball Player\" by Cosmopolitan Magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080614", "title": "Kate Wilkinson", "text": "Kate Wilkinson\n\nKate Wilkinson (October 25, 1916 – February 9, 1993) was an American stage, film and television actress.\n\nShe is best known to TV audiences for her roles as Viola Stapleton in the CBS soap opera \"Guiding Light\", a role she played from 1976 to 1981, and Clara Hudson on the NBC soap opera \"Another World\", which she played from 1987 to 1989.\n\nIn addition to making many guest appearances in supporting roles on television as well as a number of films, she also was a regular on theatre. Among her stage roles were Mrs. McCollough in 1972-73's \"Last of Mrs. Lincoln\" (she also reprised her role in the 1976 film version), and Clairee in the original Off-Broadway production of \"Steel Magnolias\" in 1987 (a role Olympia Dukakis would play in the film version). In 1980, she originated the role of Libby in \"The Whales of August\", which Bette Davis played in the film version. Her last role was a 1990 guest appearance on \"Law & Order\".\n\nKate Wilkinson died from bone cancer in 1993, aged 76.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080631", "title": "Pilot (M*A*S*H)", "text": "Pilot (M*A*S*H)\n\nThe pilot episode of \"M*A*S*H\", the first episode of the first season was first broadcast on September 17, 1972. It was filmed and completed in December, 1971. The episode was written by Larry Gelbart and directed by Gene Reynolds, who received the Directors Guild of America Award for it. It was also nominated for two Emmys for its directon and writing.\n\nIn the episode, Ho-Jon, the houseboy of Captains Hawkeye Pierce and Trapper John McIntyre, has been accepted to Hawkeye's college, but they must raise tuition for him if he is to attend. They hold a fund-raising party while their commanding officer, Lt. Col Henry Blake, is away. There, they raffle off a weekend's R & R in Tokyo along with the company of a nurse, much to the chagrin of Majors Frank Burns and Margaret Houlihan.\n\nReturning to the Swamp after a long session in the OR, Hawkeye receives a letter announcing that Ho-Jon has been accepted into his alma mater, though he and Trapper still have the task of coming up with $2,000 for travel and tuition. Hawkeye convinces Trapper that they can accomplish it by raffling off a weekend pass to Tokyo with the company of a gorgeous nurse. They go to Colonel Henry Blake's office to propose the idea to him, and he nervously gives them permission. Hawkeye convinces a nurse, Lt. \"Dish\", to agree to be the nurse who will accompany the winner to Tokyo, but he promises that she'll be able to get out of spending any time with the winner.\n\nLater on, Hawkeye and Trapper get into an argument with Frank Burns, who, in a fit of rage, destroys their still. Furious with him, they put a bag over his head and throw him out of the tent. When Henry hears about it, he withdraws the passes and cancels the party they had planned to throw for fear that Frank will complain to General Hammond. He adds that he has to see Hammond in Seoul and was unhappy about the party taking place in his absence. However, as Henry is leaving, Radar reveals that he tricked him into signing two passes, so the party can take place. Unfortunately, Hawkeye's and Trapper's happiness is short lived as they discover that Frank was made temporary commander. To get rid of him so they can have their party, Hawkeye injects him with a sedative, wraps a bandage around his face, and puts him in a bed in post-op, prescribing a dose of sedative every hour.\n\nAn upset Margaret comes to the party in search of Frank, who she has been unable to find. Suspicious of the activities of Hawkeye and Trapper, she calls General Hammond, a former lover, who is so excited to hear from her that he departs for the 4077 at once. Meanwhile, Hawkeye announces that they have raised $1800 and then has the nurse draw a name for the raffle. Hawkeye has fixed the raffle so that the winner is Father Mulcahy, but unfortunately, he announces this just as Hammond walks in.\nWhile the infuriated general questions Hawkeye and Trapper, Margaret walks in with Frank, still sedated and with bandages around his head, and screams at the two of them. Hammond demands that they be arrested, but just in the nick of time, choppers arrive loaded with casualties. After the session, which Hammond participates in, he tells Henry that Hawkeye and Trapper are two of the best surgeons he has ever seen and, for that reason, he is dropping the charges.\n"}
{"id": "2080632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080632", "title": "Itäkeskus metro station", "text": "Itäkeskus metro station\n\nItäkeskus metro station (, - \"Eastern Center\") is a ground-level station on the Helsinki Metro. The station was built on the grounds of the shopping center Itis, and serves the quarter of Itäkeskus in the neighborhood of Vartiokylä in East Helsinki. There are 240 bicycle and 420 car parking spaces at the station. Itäkeskus is served by both M1 and M2 and acts as an exchange station between the two, as it is the easternmost station to be shared by both lines.\n\nItäkeskus is one of the original stations on the system, and was opened on 1 June 1982. It was designed by Jaakko Ylinen and Jarmo Maunula. Itäkeskus is located 2.1 kilometers east of Siilitie metro station, 1.9 kilometers south of Myllypuro metro station, and 1.0 kilometers south-west of Puotila metro station.\n\nItäkeskus station is unique in the sense that it is the only station on the Helsinki metro that has 3 platforms. It is also one of the two stations on the network at which trains' doors open on the \"wrong\" side - on the right instead of the left. This only occurs on track 1 when facing Vuosaari and Mellunmäki, and one track 2 (which is rarely used) facing Helsinki and Matinkylä. The only other station with this arrangement is Kalasatama's. \n"}
{"id": "2080635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080635", "title": "Canadian Dental Association", "text": "Canadian Dental Association\n\nThe Canadian Dental Association (CDA; French: \"Association dentaire canadienne\") is a non-profit professional association representing Canada's 18,000 dentists. Headquartered in Canada's capital city Ottawa, the CDA serves its members and the public by managing key oral health issues on their behalf and by coordinating dental health awareness programs across the nation.\n\nCDA is actively involved with lobbying and advocacy initiatives and uses its leadership role to communicate to the public and the government the profession's concerns regarding managed dental care.\n\nThe CDA was founded in 1902. \n\nDeborah Stymiest of Fredericton was elected as its first female president in 2008.\n\nThe CDA Seal is a symbol to help consumers know which oral health benefit claims made by a manufacturer have been independently reviewed and are supported by scientific evidence. The seal is designed to help the public and dental professionals make informed choices. It is based on the dental symbol, the Rod of Asclepius surrounded by an interlocking circle and triangle.\n\nThe Canadian Dental Association is a nationwide professional organization, representing Canadian dentists through its corporate members, who are currently:\n\nCorporate members are provincial or territorial dental organizations that pay a corporate membership fee in order to represent their members' interests on a national basis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080639", "title": "I Believe (Frankie Laine song)", "text": "I Believe (Frankie Laine song)\n\n\"I Believe\" is a popular song written by Ervin Drake, Irvin Graham, Jimmy Shirl and Al Stillman in 1953.\n\n\"I Believe\" was commissioned and introduced by Jane Froman on her television show, and became the first hit song ever introduced on TV. Froman, troubled by the uprising of the Korean War in 1952 so soon after World War II, asked Drake, Graham, Shirl and Stillman to compose a song that would offer hope and faith to the populace. Froman's commercial recording reached No. 11 in the Billboard charts during a 10-week stay. \"I Believe\" has been recorded by many others, and has become both a popular and religious standard.\n\nFrankie Laine's version spent eighteen non-consecutive weeks at the top of the UK Singles Chart. Laine also had the most successful version in the US, where he reached #2 for three weeks.\n\n\nIn 1972, Shawnee Music published a new arrangement of \"I Believe\" that includes a quodlibet with Bach/Gounod, \"Ave Maria\". This version is frequently performed by choirs at Christmas time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080645", "title": "Harry Howell", "text": "Harry Howell\n\nHarry Howell may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080664", "title": "Bridal Veil Falls (Manitoulin Island)", "text": "Bridal Veil Falls (Manitoulin Island)\n\nBridal Veil Falls is a waterfall near the town of Kagawong on Lake Huron's Manitoulin Island, Ontario, Canada. The water source is the Kagawong River which flows from Lake Kagawong to the North Channel of Lake Huron.\n\nIt has a height of approximately . There is a short hiking trail from the falls down to the North Channel.\n\nThere are two parking lots and two approaches to the falls: one from the top of the outdoor steel staircase next to the falls, and another from a few hundred yards down the trail, past some of the rapids. Both are easily accessible from Highway 540.\n"}
{"id": "2080665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080665", "title": "Blow Out (TV series)", "text": "Blow Out (TV series)\n\nBlow Out is a reality television series that first premiered on the Bravo cable television network in 2004, with a second season broadcasting in 2005. The first season revolved around the construction and launch of Jonathan Salon in Beverly Hills, an upscale Los Angeles hair salon. The second season showed the ongoing business ventures of now celebrity hair stylist Jonathan Antin, including the management of his (two) salons and the launch of his own hair styling product. A third season premiered on March 21, 2006. Season 3 chronicled Jonathan's product launch and growing popularity in the fashion industry.\n\nThe Beverly Hills salon, located at 9681 Wilshire Blvd in Beverly Hills, is no longer Antin's and operates under Tom Brophy's Salon as of 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080668", "title": "C battery", "text": "C battery\n\nThe C battery (or R14 battery) is a standard size of dry cell battery typically used in medium-drain applications such as toys, flashlights, and musical instruments.\n\nAs of 2007, C batteries accounted for 4% of alkaline primary battery sales in the United States. In Switzerland as of 2008, C batteries totalled 5.4% of primary battery sales and 3.4% of secondary battery sales.\n\nA C battery measures length and diameter.\n\nThe voltage and capacity of a C-size battery depends on the battery chemistry and discharge conditions. The nominal voltage is 1.5V. Alkaline C batteries can hold up to 8,000 mAh, rechargeable NiMH C batteries can hold up to 6,000 mAh, and zinc-carbon C batteries usually hold up to 3,800 mAh.\n\nLike the D battery, the C battery size has been standardized since the 1920s. The AA, AAA, and N sizes have been in common use since the 1950s.\n\nThe C battery is called \"14\" in current ANSI standards of battery nomenclature, and in IEC standards is designated \"R14\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080669", "title": "SAEREO", "text": "SAEREO\n\nServicios Aéreos Ejecutivos Saereo S.A., operating as SAEREO, is an airline based in Quito, Ecuador. It operates charter and domestic passenger services, as well as medivac flights.\n\nSAEREO operates services between Quito and Macas.\n\nThe SAEREO fleet included the following aircraft in August 2006:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080670", "title": "Eira", "text": "Eira\n\nEira is a neighborhood in Helsinki, the capital of Finland.\n\nThe district dates back to the early 20th century and received its name after Eira Hospital in the neighboring district of Ullanlinna, which in turn took its name from Eira Hospital in Stockholm, which was named after Eir, the old Scandinavian goddess of healing.\n\nEira is located south from the city centre. The neighbourhood has some of the most expensive and sought-after old apartments in Helsinki, built in jugend style. Many foreign embassies and high-class restaurants are situated in Eira and the neighbouring district of Kaivopuisto.\n\nEira also appears in the movie \"Calamari Union\" directed by Aki Kaurismäki. In the movie the area of Eira symbolizes wealth and well-being, which the characters are trying to achieve by moving from Kallio to Eira.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080672", "title": "Myllypuro metro station", "text": "Myllypuro metro station\n\nMyllypuro metro station (, - \"Mill Creek\") is a ground-level station on the M2 line (Tapiola - Mellunmäki) of the Helsinki Metro. There are 97 bicycle and 40 car parking spaces at Myllypuro. The station serves the quarter of Myllypuro in East Helsinki.\n\nThe station was opened on 21 October 1986 and was designed by the architect firm \"Toivo Karhunen Oy\". It is located 1.9 kilometers north of Itäkeskus and 1.4 kilometers south of Kontula.\n\nOne of Metropolia's campuses is located in Myllypuro, which is why the idea of changing the station's name from Myllypuro to Metropolia has also been brought up.\n"}
{"id": "2080674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080674", "title": "Callander, Ontario", "text": "Callander, Ontario\n\nThe Municipality of Callander (formerly the Township of North Himsworth) is a township in central Ontario, Canada, located at the southeast end of Lake Nipissing in the Almaguin Highlands region of the District of Parry Sound. The municipality is located on Callander Bay, just south of North Bay.\n\nThe municipality renamed itself from North Himsworth to Callander in 2003, adopting the name of its major community because, in the words of then-mayor Bill Brazeau, \"Nobody knew where North Himsworth was.\"\n\nThe main community of Callander is located in the northeast corner of the municipality, along the eastern shore of Callander Bay.\n\nThe south shore of Callander Bay and Lake Nipissing (southwest of the town) represents the rural population of Callander, which primarily runs along Highway 654 West. This area includes the communities of Wisawasa and Lighthouse Beach.\n\nCallander Bay is an eroded Proterozoic volcanic pipe formed by the violent, supersonic eruption of a deep-origin volcano, approximately 500 million years ago. It is one of eight known volcanic sites in Ontario, including the Manitou Islands in North Bay.\n\nThe first people in the Callander area were of Ojibwa and Algonquin descent who have lived around Lake Nipissing for about 9,400 years. Though in history known by many names, they are currently known as Nipissing First Nation. They are generally considered part of the Anishinaabe peoples, a grouping which includes the Odaawaa, Ojibwe and Algonquins.\n\nIn 1610, French explorer Samuel de Champlain sent a young apprentice, Étienne Brûlé, to live with the Huron natives at Georgian Bay. While en route, Brûlé discovered Lake Nipissing via the Lavase River Portage (approximately 3 km north of Callander) and established a major fur trading route linking the Ottawa River with the upper Great Lakes. Other explorers who used the Lavase Portage were Samuel de Champlain in 1615, Pierre Gaultier de Varennes, sieur de La Vérendrye in 1731, Alexander Henry the elder in 1761 and Sir Alexander MacKenzie in 1802.\n\nIn 1880, George Morrison, a bookkeeper from Oxford County in Southern Ontario traveled by ox-cart from Muskoka to Lake Nipissing. There he built a raft and floated his family and possessions across the lake to the south-east bay. Logging companies had taken interest in the abundant Eastern White Pine that grew in the area. He was one of its first pioneers and his wife was the first white woman. On June 1, 1881, he opened a Post Office in his general store and named it after his parents' Scottish birthplace of Callander.\n\nLumber companies that established mills in Callander included:\n\n\nProminent people who have lived in Callander include:\n\nAccording to the Canada 2016 Census:\nIn 2006, Callander was 96.4% Caucasian, 2.1% Aboriginal, and 1.5% Visible Minorities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080690", "title": "Kontula metro station", "text": "Kontula metro station\n\nKontula metro station (, ) is a ground-level station on the M2 line (Tapiola - Mellunmäki) of the Helsinki Metro. There are 273 bicycle and 53 car parking spaces at Kontula. The station serves the district of Kontula in East Helsinki.\n\nKontula was opened on 21 October 1986 and was designed by architect bureau Toivo Karhunen Oy. It is located 1.4 kilometers north of Myllypuro metro station and 1.6 kilometers west of Mellunmäki metro station.\n"}
{"id": "2080695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080695", "title": "Remy Ma", "text": "Remy Ma\n\nReminisce Mackie (née Smith; May 30, 1980), known professionally as Remy Ma, is an American rapper. She was initially discovered by Big Pun, and came to prominence for her work as a member of Fat Joe’s group, Terror Squad. On February 7, 2006, she released her debut studio album \"\", which was a modest success, peaking at number 33 on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart. She is one of only six female rappers to ever top the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart (as a member of Terror Squad on \"Lean Back\"), and one of only four multiple winners of the BET Award for Best Female Hip-Hop Artist, which she won in 2005 and 2017.\n\nMa's most successful songs include \"Ante Up (Remix)\", \"Lean Back\", \"Conceited\", and \"All the Way Up\". Ma is the recipient of two Vibe awards, two Source awards, and has been nominated for three Grammy awards. Since 2015, she has starred on VH1's reality series \"\", alongside her husband Papoose.\n\nMa grew up in Castle Hill Projects in The Bronx, New York, exposed to her family's drug abuse at an early age. She was forced to take care of her younger brothers and sisters at a young age and retreated from her home life issues by writing poetry. Her reputation spread around the Bronx, eventually getting the attention of Big Pun. After a meeting and freestyle session, Pun took Ma under his wing and became her mentor. Ma kickstarted her rap career under the name \"Remy Martin\" on Big Pun's album \"Yeeeah Baby\", where she was featured on the tracks \"Ms. Martin\" and \"You Was Wrong\".\n\nAfter the death of Big Pun, rapper Fat Joe signed Ma to his imprint label under SRC and Universal where she became a member of his hip hop group Terror Squad. She appeared on their second and final album, \"True Story\", released on July 27, 2004. Their single, \"Lean Back\", topped the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 for three weeks from August 21, 2004, garnered Ma her first Grammy nomination.\n\nOn February 7, 2006, Ma released her debut album \"\", which was supported by the singles \"Whuteva\", \"Conceited\" and \"Feels So Good\". The album was a critical success, however a disappointment financially, moving 37,000 units in its opening week and 158,000 units within the first year. Remy was frustrated at the way the album was being promoted by Universal and tensions between her and the label caused a rift between Ma and Fat Joe. Ma and Universal parted ways, and she severed her associations with Joe and the Terror Squad.\n\nOn February 13, 2007, Ma told \"Billboard\" that she was working on her second album, \"PunisHer\", as well as a collaboration album as part of the all-female rap supergroup 3Sum, alongside female rappers Shawnna and Jacki-O. In July 2007, Remy was arrested for allegedly shooting Makeda Barnes-Joseph at a Manhattan nightspot, putting Ma's rap career officially on hold while she served time for the crime. While incarcerated, she released the mixtapes \"The BX Files\", \"Shesus Khryst\" and \"Blasremy\".\n\nIn 2011, Ma's music was featured and discussed in the documentary \"Black Lifestyle in Japan\", where she was praised for her style and listed as one of the most frequently listened to hip-hop musicians in Japan, among younger women.\n\nMa was released from prison in 2014. On October 31, 2014, she released the mixtape \"I'm Around\". On April 28, 2015, she released \"Remy on the Rocks\", a compilation of various tracks from her mixtapes.\n\nOn July 7, 2015, Ma announced that she was joining \"\" for its sixth season, along with her husband Papoose. She has continued to appear on the show as a series regular in seasons seven, eight, nine and ten, as well as starring in the spin-off show \"\", and the specials \"Remy & Papoose: A Merry Mackie Holiday\", \"Dirty Little Secrets\", \"The Love Edition\", \"Love & Hip Hop Awards: Most Certified\" and \"40 Greatest Love & Hip Hop Moments: The Reboot\".\nIn 2016, Fat Joe revealed that he and Ma would be releasing a joint album. On March 2, 2016, the joint album was officially announced as \"Plata O Plomo\", which translates from Spanish to \"money or bullets\". The phrase was used by Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar, who would offer government officials and law enforcement the choice of taking a bribe, or having a murder contract placed against them. The album's first single, \"All the Way Up\", was released the same day. \"All the Way Up\" was a critical and commercial success, receiving platinum certification from the RIAA, and two Grammy Award nominations. \"Plata O Plomo\" debuted at number 44 on the \"Billboard\" 200 with first-week sales of 11,158 album-equivalent units. The album received generally favorable reviews from music critics, despite lukewarm commercial success. \"XXL\" gave the album a 4 out of 5 stars, noting that the album is a \"a triumphant return\" for the duo.\n\nOn August 20, 2017, Ma opened a women's clothing store, \"Conceited\" in Raleigh, North Carolina.\n\nOn November 16, 2017, Ma released \"Wake Me Up\", the first single from her upcoming album \"7 Winters, 6 Summers\". It featured fellow New York rapper Lil Kim and a sample from Kim's \"Queen Bitch\" from the 1996 album \"Hard Core\". On January 19, 2018, Ma released the album's second single \"Melanin Magic\", featuring vocals by Chris Brown and using a sample from Mint Condition's \"Breakin' My Heart (Pretty Brown Eyes).\" On April 26, 2018, Ma released the song \"Company\" featuring fellow Bronx artist A Boogie wit da Hoodie. On June 12, 2018, Ma released \"New Thang\", with rapper French Montana, from the soundtrack for the film \"Uncle Drew\".\n\nSince September 10, 2018, Ma has appeared as a host on the talk show \"State of the Culture\" with Joe Budden.\n\nSmith married Shamele Mackie, better known as fellow rapper Papoose, in February 2016. The couple were initially scheduled to be wed while Smith was incarcerated in 2008, but the wedding was called off after police caught Mackie attempting to smuggle a key into prison and banned him from visiting her for six months.\n\nRemy Ma has one child from a previous relationship, as well as three stepchildren with Papoose. She gave birth to the couple's first child together, Reminisce Mackenzie, on December 14, 2018.\n\nOn July 13, 2007, Smith turned herself in to New York City police in relation to a shooting early that morning outside a Manhattan delicatessen. Police say that while she was with a group of people outside the Pizza Bar, a Manhattan nightspot, a verbal confrontation broke out at 4 a.m. During the entire incident, a gunshot to the torso wounded Makeda Barnes-Joseph, who had been accused of stealing three thousand dollars from Smith. Police sources indicate that Barnes-Joseph later identified Smith as the shooter. Security tapes from inside the club showed no evidence of any altercations or arguments. Smith pleaded not guilty to charges of attempted murder, assault, and criminal weapon possession. Smith was later charged with witness tampering and assault after an August 2007 incident in which she was accused of causing several male friends to attack a witness's boyfriend.\n\nOn March 27, 2008, Smith was convicted of assault, illegal weapon possession and attempted coercion in connection with these charges. She was immediately taken into custody pending sentencing scheduled for May 13. She was acquitted of witness tampering and gang assault. At her sentencing, the judge noted her disregard for the victim following the shooting—commenting that the rapper rifled through the victim's purse looking for the alleged stolen money, as Barnes-Joseph sat seriously wounded in the car. Smith then exited the vehicle, jumped into a waiting car and drove off, leaving Barnes-Joseph bleeding in the front seat. No money was found in Barnes-Joseph's purse.\n\nThe shooting caused Barnes-Joseph to undergo several surgeries. In 2007, Barnes-Joseph filed an $80 million civil lawsuit against Smith for damages, along with pain and suffering. According to her lawyers, Smith was serving an eight-year term at the Bedford Hills Correctional Facility for Women in Bedford Hills, New York, located in Westchester County and was expected to be released in 2015.\n\nSmith married her fiancée, rapper Papoose, while incarcerated in May 2008. During an interview with Hot 97 host Funkmaster Flex in July 2012, Smith announced that in 22 1/2 months she would be released.\n\nIn February 2014, her husband Papoose confirmed that Smith should be released during July 2014. On August 1, 2014, Smith was released from prison after serving six years. In October 2018, Smith launched a new clothing line, with proceeds going to the \"Remy Ma Foundation\" to help women and their families who have been negatively affected by incarceration.\n\nAfter being investigated by the NYPD for allegedly assaulting Brittney Taylor, one of her \"Love & Hip Hop\" co-stars, Smith turned herself in to the authorities in May 6, 2019. On December 2, 2019, all charges were dropped due to lack of evidence.\n\nA beef between Remy Ma and Foxy Brown originated in August 2004, when an interviewer noted to Remy: \"Right now, it’s a lack of female rappers in the game. Foxy don't got anything going on,\" Remy Ma responded: \"How do I feel about them? Stay wherever they at, don't drop a song, don't do nothing, let me be the only one. I'm having so much fun. I hope they never come out. Nah, I wish everyone the best of luck. Just don’t drop when I drop. That’s all I got to say. Matter of fact, just don’t drop at all. It’ll even be better.\" In September 2004, Remy recalled that after a rap battle with Lady Luck at Fight Klub, her refusal to \"show some type of seniority or respect\" to Brown became one of the building blocks in the feud. Remy also recalled that during the incident the two were arguing over a future rap battle, where Brown declined and allegedly stated, \"What? A battle? That's for beginners. We sell records in Brooklyn!\" Remy dissed the rapper, responding, \"When the last time you sold a record? Get the fuck out of here. I'd rather be a beginner that's on fire than be a washed-up veteran. Are you fucking serious? Don't try to degrade what I do.\" Remy additionally revealed that a prize of over $200,000 was offered to whoever won the rap battle.\n\nAnother building block to the feud was Remy's recollection of her and Brown coincidentally being interviewed at the same events either \"before or after\" each other, where she would catch wind of Brown \"subliminally\" dissing her by making statements like: \"I've been doing this for years. These new chicks, they('re) not on (my level).\" In another event, specifically a \"Baby Phat\" after-party, Foxy Brown intentionally tried to bump into Remy. The occurrence resulted in strands of Brown's weave getting caught in Remy's bracelet, causing Remy to snatch her wrist back and yank out the strands. Remy recalled that Brown in response \"kept it moving (despite a scuffle) she had with \"regular\" girls in a bathroom (over cutting in line).\"\n\nIn late January 2005, Remy Ma reportedly punched Foxy Brown inside Island Def Jam/Universal offices, roughly a few days after Brown \"subliminal\" disses Remy during a venue at Jay-Z's \"Best of Both Worlds Tour\" and allegedly dissed her during a Hot 97 interview segment with DJ Clue, where Brown disses Remy on a mixtape track (\"We Hustlaz\") and allegedly ranted: \"Who drives 645's? That's wack. We sell records [in New York]. We don't just get on the radio station and pop shit.\" In February 2006, Remy Ma released a freestyle record (\"Most Anticipated\") that contained \"slick comments\" about Brown's hearing problem and stated that she didn't care if it was offensive because \"it was just good punchlines\". In September 2006, Remy again joked about Brown's hearing, addressing to a radio show: \"now Foxy suddenly got her hearing back, (I) wanted to be the first to inform her that she's wack and old.\"\n\nIn July 2007, during her interview with \"Sub 0 Magazine\", Foxy Brown dissed Remy Ma, stating: \"When you lookin' at Fox(y) and Kim and sayin', 'Damn y'all make me wanna rap.' Well shit you disappointing me 'cause you sound horrible. You look horrible, ya sound horrible. If it walk like somethin', talk like somethin', act like somethin', then it is somethin'.\" Brown also dissed Remy's recollection of their disagreement over the rap battle, addressing: \"Some of these female rappers have the wrong approach, they wanna be my friend. And instead of approaching me like, '\"Hey, how you doing\", another chick (Remy), 'Yo, what up with that battle?' And I'm lookin' at her like, 'You bum ass. Naw, I don't do that, I'm a business woman baby.'\" In December 2007, Remy spoke more candidly on her dispute with Brown. She confirmed that although she disliked Brown as a person, she admitted she liked Brown's music and added that she was influenced by her and Lil' Kim. Remy later concluded her take on the feud by giving a shout-out to Brown's rival Jacki-O and stating, \"If you look at every female that came out after (Foxy Brown) or when she came out with (Lil') Kim, to Eve, me, Jacki-O, it even got to Latifah, like how do you (get in a fight) with Queen Latifah? Like, are you serious? This chick is a problem.\"\nIn 2017, Foxy released a new single called \"Breaks Over\", a diss track aimed at Remy.\n\nDisagreements between Nicki Minaj and Ma originated in 2007, when Ma took note of Minaj's freestyle record, nicknamed \"Dirty Money\", from her mixtape \"Playtime Is Over\" (2007). In the record, Minaj recites: \"Tell that bitch with the crown to run it like Chris Brown/she won three rounds, I'ma need a hundred thou/like 'Chinatown' — bitches better bow down/oh you ain't know, betcha bitches know now/fuck I got a gun — let her know that I'm the one\". Minaj reportedly never confirmed or denied that the song was about Ma, however, Ma remarked in a 2010 interview: \"To this day I still feel like (the song) is a stab at me; I'm gonna (diss Minaj) back for that one\". Although Ma and Minaj shared words of encouragement, their relationship soon soured, and they began releasing verses and songs with lyrics aimed at each other, including Ma's \"Money Showers\" with Fat Joe and Minaj's \"Make Love\" with Gucci Mane.\n\nOn February 25, 2017, Ma released \"Shether\", which contained a number of accusations and allegations regarding Minaj's personal and professional life. She followed this with \"Another One\".\n\nOn the March 3, 2017 episode of \"The Wendy Williams Show\", Ma accused Minaj of \"trying to keep (her) off of red carpets\" and \"trying to make sure awards don't go to (her)\". A week later, in an interview hosted by \"BuzzFeed\", Ma stated that she had second thoughts about releasing the diss track and commented on the difficulties of being a woman in the music industry. Minaj subsequently responded with the song \"No Frauds\", in which she accused Ma of spreading falsehoods.\n\nOn June 12, 2017, Ma took the stage at Hot 97's Summer Jam. During her performance, she brought out Queen Latifah, Young M.A, Lil' Kim, MC Lyte, Lady of Rage, and Cardi B to perform \"U.N.I.T.Y.\" After the group left the stage, Ma launched into a performance of \"Shether\", while photos of Minaj were displayed on the stage screen behind her. During the performance, she repeatedly directed f-bombs at Minaj.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080707", "title": "Guido", "text": "Guido\n\nGuido is a given name Latinised from the Old High German name Wido. It originated in Medieval Italy. Guido later became a male first name in Austria, Germany, the Low Countries, Spain, Portugal and Switzerland. The meaning of the name is debated, with various sources indicating the Germanic \"Wido\" means \"wood\" and others connecting the Italian form \"Guido\" to the latinate root for \"guide\".\n\nThe slang term \"Guido\" is used in American culture as a stereotype and ethnic slur for working-class urban Italian Americans.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080710", "title": "Kruununhaka", "text": "Kruununhaka\n\nKruununhaka () is a neighbourhood of Helsinki, the capital of Finland.\n\nKruununhaka became the area next to the harbour and the center, when Helsinki was moved from the earlier location in the mid-1660s. From the very beginning, the residents included city and state officials.\n\nMany buildings of the University of Helsinki are also situated in Kruununhaka. The area has become known for its vintage shops.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080714", "title": "Crime Stoppers", "text": "Crime Stoppers\n\nCrime Stoppers or Crimestoppers is a community program that allows people to provide anonymous information about criminal activity. Often managed by non-profit groups or the police, it operates separately from the emergency telephone number system or other standard methods of contacting police. This allows a person to provide crime solving assistance to the authorities without being directly involved in the investigation process. Founded in the United States in 1976 in Albuquerque, New Mexico, Crime Stoppers later caught on in Canada and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe authorities, especially the police, sometimes rely on information from the community about criminal activities or events. Crime Stoppers was developed to enable the public to participate without fear of reprisal and to make it easier for witnesses to volunteer information anonymously. There have been challenges to this aspect.\n\nCrime Stoppers first began in Albuquerque, New Mexico in July 1976. That month Michael Carmen was fatally shot while he was working at night at a local filling station. After two weeks the police had not been able to gather any information about the killing. Detective Greg MacAleese approached the local television station to request they film a reconstruction of the crime. When the re-enactment was aired, the police department offered US$1,000.00 for information leading to the arrest of the killers. Within 72 hours, a male called in identifying a car which he had seen leaving the scene at high speed; he had noted its registration. The person calling said that he did not want to get involved; therefore, he had not called earlier.\n\nDetective MacAleese realized that fear and apathy often prevented the public from getting involved. He helped design a system by which the public could anonymously provide details of the events. This system focused on stimulating community involvement and participation, and took advantage of electronic media to publicize unsolved crimes. The police offered cash rewards for information leading to an arrest and/or conviction.\n\nSince the first chapter was officially formed in Albuquerque in 1976, Crime Stoppers in the United States has been responsible for more than half a million arrests and more than US$4 billion in recovered property. \n\nThe first organisation that supported the Crime Stoppers concept was Circle K Stores in New Mexico. After hearing a speech made by Greg MacAleese to the Chamber of Commerce the head of security for Circle K Store, Carl Jones approached MacAleese and said he thought the concept was an excellent idea and asked if he would like help putting the civilian Board of Directors together.\n\nMacAleese said, \"that moment might have been the luckiest in the history of Crime Stoppers\".\n\nThe long history between Crime Stoppers and Circle K Stores remains strong to this day, largely due to Sean Sportun who is the head of security for Circle K Stores in Central Canada. Sportun has been an extraordinary advocate for the cause and has been recognized on a local, provincial and international level for his dedicated efforts - in 2019 Sportun received the Crime Stoppers International Civilian of The Year award\n\nCrime Stoppers spread to Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. While the individual programs are local or regional in nature, mostly run by non-profit groups or directly by police, various national and international umbrella organizations exist. The toll-free telephone number +1-800-222-TIPS is used to reach various different Crime Stoppers groups in Canada and the U.S., although some groups publish their own numbers.\n\nThe program claims to provide anonymity (callers are given a code number instead of being asked for their name and calls are not traced or recorded) and to pay rewards when their information leads to an arrest and/or conviction. However, in a 2003 California death penalty case, a defendant had called the tip line himself. The managers of a tip hotline guaranteeing anonymity had taped calls; such tapes were used as evidence against the defendant and challenged by his attorney.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080729", "title": "Mellunmäki metro station", "text": "Mellunmäki metro station\n\nMellunmäki metro station (, ) is the ground-level terminus station on the M2 line of the Helsinki Metro. It serves the district of Mellunmäki in East Helsinki.\n\nThe station was opened on 1 September 1989 and was designed by architect bureau Toivo Karhunen Oy. It is located 1.6 kilometres east of Kontula.\n\nThe Mellunmäki metro station is the northernmost metro station in the world.\n"}
{"id": "2080731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080731", "title": "Contessa Brewer", "text": "Contessa Brewer\n\nContessa Brewer (born March 16, 1974) is an American television journalist for CNBC Business News. As a correspondent, she covers casinos and gaming. She is also a substitute anchor. She formerly hosted the MSNBC weekend program \"Caught on Camera\" and was also a correspondent for NBC News and an anchor at NBC's flagship station WNBC.\n\nBrewer was born in Parsonsfield, Maine, and graduated from Sacopee Valley High School in Hiram, Maine, in 1992. She graduated \"magna cum laude\" from Syracuse University's Newhouse School of Public Communications with a B.S. in Broadcast Journalism in 1996, as well as a Certificate of Contemporary Europe following her political studies in Strasbourg, France.\n\nBrewer joined MSNBC in September 2003, after working for WTMJ-TV in Milwaukee, Wisconsin as a weekend anchor and general assignment reporter. She has also worked for KMIR-TV in Palm Springs, California from 1997 to 1999, and KRNV-TV in Reno, Nevada. KMIR and WTMJ-TV were both owned by Journal Communications.\n\nIn spring 2005, Brewer served briefly as a news reader on the \"Imus in the Morning\" radio show, which was syndicated nationally. Her tenure was brief; she became embroiled in a public feud with Don Imus after the \"New York Post\" published a gossip item in which she was allegedly overheard disparaging the radio personality. Imus replied, on air, with his own disparaging remarks directed at Brewer. She later appeared as the news reader on \"Verdict with Dan Abrams\" before its cancellation in 2008. She and Dan Abrams would discuss the \"Winners and Losers\" of the day, as well as reading responses from readers. She hosted \"MSNBC Live\" weekdays at noon, until her departure on August 26, 2011.\n\nIn January 2010, New Hampshire Senator Judd Gregg, a guest on \"It's the Economy\", hosted by Brewer and Melissa Francis, called for cuts in the federal budget. When Gregg failed to respond to Francis' questions concerning the specific cuts he supported, Brewer pressed him, asking \"Which programs are you willing to cut? Are you willing to tell schools, no money for you?\" Gregg reacted by saying Brewer was \"absurd\", \"fundamentally dishonest\", \"irresponsible\" and lacked \"integrity\" for her handling of interviews, and stated \"in your introduction to me, you said that, that education funding would be cut.\"\n\nIn August 2009, Brewer was criticized by conservative blogs for a story about a man carrying an AR-15 rifle at an Obama appearance in Phoenix, Arizona, on August 17. MSNBC was accused of editing the video to conceal the race of the man, who was black, and Brewer commented \"you have a man of color in the presidency and white people showing up with guns strapped to their waists or to their legs.\"\n\nIn May 2010, Brewer received criticism for her comments about the Times Square car bomb attempt: \n\nOn July 20, 2011, while interviewing Representative Mo Brooks (R-AL) on MSNBC regarding the debt crisis, Brewer asserted: \"We were looking at going ... reverting a depression at that point.\" When Brooks said he disagreed, Brewer challenged, \"Do you have a degree in economics?\" Brooks replied \"Yes ma'am, I do. Highest honors.\" According to his Congressional web site, \"Mo graduated from Duke University in three years with a double major in political science and economics, with highest honors in economics. In 1978, he graduated from the University of Alabama Law School.\" After the interview, Brewer commented on her Facebook page that she \"just learned why lawyers are told never to ask a question they don't know the answer to.\"\n\nOn August 26, 2011, Brewer announced at the conclusion of her regular anchoring hour on MSNBC that she would no longer be serving as an anchor for the network. Brewer stated that she would continue hosting \"Caught on Camera\" and filing reports for NBC news but that she would be pursuing other opportunities in the future.\n\nIn March 2012, Brewer began doing fill-in anchor work for WNBC in New York City, mostly on weekends.\n\nIn 2017, Brewer joined CNBC full-time as a correspondent and fill-in anchor.\n\nIn 2013, she gave birth to twin boys.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080734", "title": "Beatmania (2006 video game)", "text": "Beatmania (2006 video game)\n\nbeatmania, also known colloquially as beatmania (US) or BMUS to distinguish it from the original arcade game \"beatmania\", is the first version of the music video game \"beatmania IIDX\" to be released in the United States. It was officially released by Konami on March 28, 2006, for the PlayStation 2 video game console.\n\nThere are 58 tracks in this game (not counting the fact that 20, November is a \"single mix\" on Single and a \"radio edit\" on Double). All tracks are playable in Game Mode, and then in Free Mode after being played once in the former. While there are no hidden songs, only a few are available when starting the game. More appear as the game progresses, but once the game is started again only those same few are available.\n\nTracks in both \"beatmania\" and \"beatmania IIDX\" game modes:\n\nTracks only in the \"beatmania\" game mode:\n\nTracks only in the \"beatmania IIDX\" game mode:\n\nWriting for PSX Extreme, Cavin Smith viewed \"Beatmania\" as an entry in the \"Beatmania IIDX\" series, since it featured similar gameplay revolving around seven keys and a turntable. G4's video game show \"X-Play\" gave the game 2/5 stars, declaring that the game was a rip-off of the then-recently released \"Guitar Hero\".\n"}
{"id": "2080742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080742", "title": "Battle of Oravais", "text": "Battle of Oravais\n\nThe Battle of Oravais (Finnish: \"Oravaisten taistelu\", Swedish: \"Slaget vid Oravais\") was one of the decisive battles in the Finnish War, fought from 1808 to 1809 between Sweden and the Russian Empire as part of the wider Napoleonic Wars. Taking place in modern-day Vörå in western Finland, it is sometimes regarded as the turning point of the Finnish War: the last chance for Sweden to turn the war to her advantage. It was the bloodiest battle of the conflict, which some historians attribute to the exhaustion, resignation and desperation of the Swedish army: it was losing the war, and defeat led to its loss of Finland to Russia.\n\nAt the beginning of the war, Swedish forces had retreated to Oulu. They had then managed to repel the Russians and reach Savonia despite the capitulation of the fortress of Sveaborg by the end of summer 1808. Russia recuperated quickly, and by the end of August the Swedish army was again retreating northwards along the coastal road. To avoid being encircled, Colonel Georg Carl von Döbeln was sent in advance to Nykarleby with a brigade. The threat of encirclement was exaggerated, but the Swedish army was at this point showing signs of panic and collapse. On 13 September the army left for Oravais and it halted to await news from von Döbeln, who was fighting the Russians at Jutas. The sound of a cannon was heard in Oravais, and a brigade was sent to reinforce von Döbeln.\n\nThe Russian main army had marched from Vasa in furious pursuit of the Swedish forces. The night before 14 September was spent in bivouacs along the road between Vörå and Oravais. The impulsive General-Major Yakov Kulnev's troops had taken the lead and were the first to make contact with the Swedes.\n\nAt dawn the first shots were exchanged between Kulnev's troops and a Swedish outpost by a bridge in the forest. Firing intensified, the Swedish position was reinforced continuously while the remainder of the Russian forces behind Kulnev arrived. Fighting continued with heavy losses on both sides until the situation became untenable for the Swedes, who retreated to their defensive positions at 10 a.m. The retreat was covered by a single artillery piece commanded by the fifteen-year-old sublieutenant Wilhelm von Schwerin.\n\nThe Swedish main position was deployed along a ridge which was protected to the north (on the Swedish right wing) by an inlet from the Baltic, and the Fjärdså stream with its south to north flow provided added defensive potential. The forest in front of the ridge had been cleared to afford the artillery a better view of the arriving Russians, who were regrouping at the edge of the forest.\n\nArtillery bombardment then began between the two forces, and continued for an hour until the Russians mounted a frontal assault against the Swedish positions. Kulnev, on the Russian left wing, struck the Swedish right, but was repelled when his force became bogged down in the Fjärdså stream. The Russians now reinforced their right wing, under Nikolay Demidov, and another assault was made. It was also repelled, but this time the Swedish unexplainably left their positions and counterattacked; Adlercreutz had issued no order to that effect. The Swedish counterattack met overpowering fire and was forced to withdraw with heavy losses.\n\nAt 2 p.m. the battle was far from decided. The Russians made a second attempt at turning the Swedish left flank. This thinned the Russian center, and Adlercreutz ordered a forceful attack to exploit the weakness. Despite the intensive Russian fire, the attack proceeded swiftly, and the whole Swedish line was carried along by the movement. The entire Russian line was forced to retire back into the forest where the battle had begun earlier in the morning.\n\nHowever, dwindling of ammunition frustrated Adlercreutz's attempted decisive stroke. As Russian reinforcements arrived, the spent Swedish army retired to their defensive positions again. At this point the battle was still undecided, but General Kamensky ordered Demidov's right wing to make yet another attempt on the weak Swedish left wing. When this maneuver started night had fallen and the battle had raged for fourteen hours; it became too much for the Swedish army, which hastily retreated to the north.\n\nThe Swedish lieutenant Carl Johan Ljunggren retold the retreat from Oravais like this:\n\n\"The darkness was such that despite continuous shovings one could not recognize the shover... Hundreds of noises came out of the night; everywhere the wounded wailed, each in his own language; artillerymen and coachmen yelled at their exhausted horses and bellowed scores of curses each time they became stuck, which happened all the time; wheels and weapons rattled, soldiers bellowed; all staggered from tiredness and hunger. Thus came the army finally to Nykarleby. The Russians hadn't followed, for their forces were also completely spent.\nThe battle of Oravais had shown that the Swedish army was not tactically inferior to the Russian counterpart. However, the Swedish strategic situation was hopeless: allied only with Great Britain, it faced the overnight of Napoleon's Europe and its Russian ally. Oravais was merely one battle on the road to final Swedish defeat.\n\nA page (in Swedish) about the battle\n\n"}
{"id": "2080750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080750", "title": "Forbes Mill", "text": "Forbes Mill\n\nForbes Mill is a now-defunct flour mill originally built in 1854 located in Los Gatos, California, which served as the History Museum of Los Gatos after having been saved from destruction in 1982. The museum closed in 2014, and its collections are now part of New Museum Los Gatos. The building is currently owned by the City.\n\nThe mill is the first commercial building to be established in the city of Los Gatos. The existing two-story building is actually a storage annex, which was added to the original four-story stone mill building in the fall of 1880.\n\nForbes Mill was built as the Santa Rosa Flour Mill by James Alexander Forbes, who was born in Scotland in 1805. He came to California in about 1831 and served as Vice-Consul in San Francisco for the British government.\n\nThe California Gold Rush gave James the idea to put up a flour mill because there were none in California at the time, and the price of flour was running at $50/barrel. He found a location on Los Gatos Creek that he thought would provide sufficient water power. In 1850, he purchased in the area of the Los Gatos Creek and proceeded to build a mill. In 1853, he raised the money for the construction, borrowing $130,000 from two lenders (including one who charged an interest rate of 3% per month), and in 1854, the mill was built. However, the milling machinery had to be shipped from New York around Cape Horn. Once it arrived, Forbes had trouble installing it, but eventually, the mill started grinding flour on December 1, 1855.\n\nThe opening of Forbes Mill was an auspicious moment in the history of the Santa Clara Valley. Built on the site of a Mexican ranch, the mill represented the shift of land ownership from the Californio Dons to the new settlers arriving after the Mexican–American War. The first three stories of the mill were built of stone quarried from the Los Gatos Canyon. The top story was wood, cut from trees in the mountains above Los Gatos. In 1880, an annex was attached to the north wall of the mill building. The town that grew around this building was first called Forbes Mill, then Forbestown, and finally Los Gatos.\nUnfortunately, Forbes knew nothing about flour milling. He had built a dam upstream on the creek, carrying water via a flume to two high water wheels. However, a high water drop proved to be inefficient, so he had to keep raising the water level. Not only that, but there was also only enough water in the creek to power the mill during the winter months, meaning that the machinery sat idle for much of the year. Furthermore, by the time the mill was in operation, competing mills had been constructed, and the Gold Rush was coming to an end, thus driving flour prices down to a mere $5/barrel.\n\nBesides his outstanding loans, Forbes had also lost a lot of money speculating on wheat and flour and was forced into bankruptcy. He eventually defaulted on his loans, and the mill and land were sold in 1857 to Gustave Touchard, one of his creditors. Forbes continued to operate the mill for Touchard but ultimately was evicted from the property in 1858. Touchard hired others to run the mill, but they did not have much success with it either, although he was able to sell parcels of the land for a small profit.\n\nIn 1866, he sold the mill to William H. Rogers, who had previously worked at a flour mill in Detroit and had opened his own Mountain Flourmills (one of Santa Rosa's competitors) in Placerville. He had sold his interest in his company in 1860 and served as postmaster of Placerville and sheriff of El Dorado County until his purchase of now-named \"Clifton Mill\". His first act was to raise the waterhead to , replace the water wheels with turbine wheels, and upgrade the machinery. With his experience, Rogers was able to turn the mill into a profitable operation.\n\nIn 1869, he brought in partners WS McMurtry and JW McMillen and renamed the company as the Los Gatos Manufacturing Co. The waterhead was increased to , and the company constructed reservoirs to hold enough water to allow for year-round production. With these improvements, the mill was able to produce 100 barrels of flour a day. In 1881, the \"Los Gatos News\" wrote, \"While other cities and towns may boast of a larger population, for the manufacture of the finest grade of flour known to the markets of the civilized world, Los Gatos Flouring Mills stands preeminent.\"\nIt continued as a flour mill until 1887 when it successively became a power plant for the Los Gatos Ice and Power Company, a brewing and bottling company, the Los Gatos Gas Company, and finally the PG&E substation for Los Gatos. The original \"Santa Rosa\" Flour Mill building was torn down in 1916. The mill remained a storehouse for PG&E until after World War II. It was then abandoned and finally, in 1971, it was revived as a youth center for Los Gatos with live rock music on Friday and Saturday nights.\n\nOn June 10, 1950, the California Centennial Commission commemorated the mill's contribution to the State's rich past by designating it as California Historical Landmark number 458. It is also listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080770", "title": "Punavuori", "text": "Punavuori\n\nPunavuori () is a neighbourhood in the center of Helsinki, the capital of Finland. The name Punavuori (English: Red mountain) refers to red cliffs located between Sepänkatu and Punavuorenkatu. They were still visible in the 19th century, nowadays they are covered with buildings and pavement. Punavuori was traditionally a working-class neighbourhood, today it is known as a bohemian district popular among artists, students and hipsters. It is one of the most densely populated areas in Finland.\n\nAfter the new location and growth of Helsinki in the 18th century, Punavuori became the area next to the center. During the 19th century the district had a seedy reputation. Most of the brothels and beerhouses were found in Punavuori. The social problems were aggravated by quickly built rent-apartments for the poor.\n\nAfter World War II, the district went through a process of gentrification. Today Punavuori offers many trendy small shops and bars, nightclubs and restaurants. Important streets include Uudenmaankatu and Iso Roobertinkatu. In the old Helsinki slang, the district is called \"Rööperi\" (derived from the district's Swedish name).\n\nA Finnish cover version of The Beatles' song \"Penny Lane\" has lyrics referring to Punavuori. The song is called \"Rööperiin\" which means \"To Punavuori\", using the slang term derived from the Swedish name. The song has been recorded by Pepe Willberg (and later by other artists). The lyrics for the chorus part are: \"Rööperiin, mä kaipaan niin\" (\"I yearn for Punavuori\").\n\nPunavuori is located within the trendy Design District of Helsinki, an area with a large concentration of museums, art galleries, local design shops, antique markets, theatres, and other landmarks within the art and design scene.\n\nEven though Punavuori area consists of only 13 streets and its total area is about 42 ha, there are many art galleries in the neighborhood, plus many design shops and trendy cafes, bars, and restaurants. Galleries in the area include: Art Salon Piirto, Atelier Matti Pikkujämsä, Bukowskis (design auction market), Exhibition Laboratory, Galleria Artika, Galleria Kajaste, Galleria Mafka & Alakoski, Galleria Sinne, Helsinki Contemporary, Life Art, Photographic Gallery Hippolyte and Rööperin taidesalonki.\n"}
{"id": "2080773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080773", "title": "Palacký University Olomouc", "text": "Palacký University Olomouc\n\nPalacký University Olomouc is the oldest university in Moravia and the second-oldest in the Czech Republic. It was established in 1573 as a public university led by the Jesuit order in Olomouc, which was at that time the capital of Moravia and the seat of the episcopacy. At first it taught only theology, but soon the fields of philosophy, law and medicine were added.\n\nAfter the Bohemian King Joseph II's reforms in the 1770s the university became increasingly state-directed, while today it is a public university. During the Revolution of 1848 university students and professors played a very active role on the side of democratisation. The conservative king Francis Joseph I closed most of its faculties during the 1850s, but they were reopened by an act of the Interim National Assembly passed on 21 February 1946. This act also extended the name from \"University of Olomouc\" to \"Palacký University Olomouc\", naming it for František Palacký, a 19th-century Moravian historian and politician.\n\nToday the university is an example of an old university in a small town, like Yale University in New Haven and the University of Tübingen in Tübingen. The town of Olomouc has 100,000 inhabitants (and as many again in its suburbs), and some 25,000 university students (including those at Moravian College Olomouc), which is the highest density of university students in Central Europe. The town itself is very old and picturesque and it is surrounded by sports facilities and nature.\n\nMany distinguished figures have taught, worked and studied here including Albrecht von Wallenstein and Gregor Mendel.\n\nThe university is the oldest in Moravia and the second oldest in the Czech Crown lands. Its foundation was an important element of the Counter-Reformation in Moravia, as the church of Rome began its fight back against Protestantism. Roughly 90% of the population of the Czech lands was already Protestant by the time the took over the throne in 1526. The Protestant Hussites were working for the provision of universal education, which was a particular challenge for the Catholics. By the middle of the century there was not a single town without a Protestant school in the Czech lands, and many had more than one, mostly with two to six teachers each. In Jihlava, a principal Protestant center in Moravia, there were six schools: two Czech, two German, one for girls and one teaching in Latin, which was at the level of a high / grammar school, lecturing on Latin, Greek and Hebrew, Rhetorics, Dialectics, fundamentals of Philosophy and fine arts, as well as religion according to the Lutheran Augustana. With the University of Prague also firmly in hands of Protestants, the local Catholic church was unable to compete in the field of education. Therefore, the Jesuits were invited, with the backing of the Catholic Habsburg rulers, to come to the Czech lands and establish a number of Catholic educational institutions, foremost the Academy in Prague and the one in Olomouc.\n\nThe Olomouc bishop Vilém Prusinovský z Víckova invited the Jesuits to Olomouc in 1566. The Jesuits established a monastery, and then progressively established the Gymnasium (school) , the Academy, the Priest Seminary, and the Seminary of St. Francis Xavier For Poor Students.\n\nThe college was promoted to University status in 1573, and thence the and the Academy of Nobility were established. The university was closed during plagues in 1599 and 1623, and during the Bohemian Revolt in the Thirty Years' War. It was ransacked by the Swedish Empire's armies.\n\nIn the Counter-Reformation and succeeding decades, it became significantly influential as the Jesuit grip loosened. In 1773, after the dissolution of the Jesuit order, it was turned into a secular institution run by the State. In the end, it was separated from the Olomouc episcopal institutions and relocated to Brno in 1778. It returned to Olomouc four years later, its status downgraded to that of a lyceum.\n\nIn 1827 it once again was promoted to University status. The short life of this renamed \"Francis University\" (\"Franzens-Universität Olmütz\", 1827 – 1860) perhaps eclipses its high scientific standard (especially in natural sciences, law and medicine) and its political importance, particularly in the \"Springtime of Peoples\" during the Revolutions of 1848 in the Habsburg areas, when it became the centre of the struggle for national revival in Moravia. The Habsburg régime retaliated by closing most of the university in the 1850s. Olomouc's university was fully re-established in 1946, inaugurating the modern era of the university.\n\nEducation in Olomouc had a long tradition before the Jesuit College obtained University status. As early as 1249 a school was established by the Bishop of Olomouc . Lectures covered grammar, dialectic, rhetoric and liturgy. The first Master, Bohumil, was appointed in 1286. In 1492 the first college dignitary, Heřman, was appointed.\nThe college was rebuilt by Bishop in 1564 to provide lectures both to public administrators and to prospective teachers. His successor Vilém Prusinovský z Víckova invited Jesuits to Olomouc in 1566. Several education initiatives rapidly ensued in the city: it is apparent that by 1567 the Jesuits were running the college. The Olomouc episcopacy pledged to finance the college with 500 Tolars a year (the amount was raised to 2000 Tolars a year in 1570).\n\nOn 22 December 1573 Maximilian II, Holy Roman Emperor appointed Jan Grodecký to be Bishop of Olomouc and at the same time gave the Olomouc Jesuit College the right to award university degrees. The first rector was (Mula, Spain 1526  – Olomouc 1594). University education itself started on 3 October 1576, when the Englishman George Warr started to lecture on philosophy. In the same year the first students were officially enrolled in the university's registry and the students were \"subdued\" in an admission ceremony, which was supposed to relieve them of base morals.\n\nIn 1578 the authority of the university was expanded by the creation of a special papal seminary ( called in (a second Collegium Nordicum was established in Braunsberg; the one in Olomouc lasted until 1741) The previous sphere of responsibility, which had covered Silesia, Poland, Hungary and the Austrian lands as well as Moravia, was now broadened to include Germany, Scandinavia and Eastern Europe. The aim of the seminary was to create devoted and well-educated Catholic priests who would then return to their homelands, and there promote and protect the Catholic Church's interests and objectives.\n\nIn 1581 the university received an Imperial Privilege from the emperor Rudolf II, whereby degrees awarded by the Jesuit University had the same value as those from any comparable university. At the same time the privilege established university jurisdiction over students and professors, which meant that university members enjoyed a form of clerical immunity and could not face trial before civil courts even in respect of criminal proceedings. In 1582 the Bishop and Jesuits forced the Protestant school in Olomouc to close. Meanwhile, the bishop, , called for the establishment of faculties of law and medicine. He was able to convince the rector, Bartoloměj Villerius, to support his proposal. Later in the 1588 the emperor Rudolf II, in a document written in the Czech language, gave his support for establishment of all these faculties; however the idea failed at the time due to lack of finance. In 1590 the university had about 600 students, while by 1617 their number exceeded one thousand. In the era before the Battle of White Mountain Olomouc University was composed of a grouping of connected and comprehensive colleges and dormitories. The areas taught were humaniora (preparation for university-level studies), philosophy (liberal arts), and theology.\n\nRudolf II was succeeded in 1612 by his brother, the Emperor Matthias who sought to install the fiercely Catholic Ferdinand of Styria on the Bohemian throne (which was conjoined with that of the March of Moravia), but in 1618 the Protestant Bohemian and Moravian noblemen, who feared losing religious freedom (two of the Protestant churches being already forcibly closed), started the Bohemian Revolt. Consequently, the Jesuits were driven out of Olomouc and the university ceased operating, only to be restored in 1621 after the revolt was crushed. The Jesuits and the university benefited considerably from the defeat of Protestants: most of the Protestant nobles were either executed or expelled after the Revolt and their properties were confiscated. Prior to the Revolt the university was mostly funded from donations of patrons. However, the new Emperor Ferdinand II gave the university several substantial estates which he had confiscated from the defeated rebels. Foremost among these was the manor of Nový Jičín which provided a good income. Other properties donated by the Emperor included a farm formerly owned by Jan Adam Prusínovský, a relative of the founder of the Jesuit college. From 1622 the entire education system of the Czech Crown lands was placed under Jesuit control, including even the University of Prague and the University of Wrocław (Silesia was also a Czech Crown land at the time). By 1631 the university had some 1100 students of which around thirty were annually conferred Doctor of Philosophy title. The lectures on mathematics allured so wide audience, that they eventually became open to public.\n\nThe Thirty Years' War (1618–48) prevented further development of the university. The Swedish kings wanted to destroy once and for all the bases from which the Catholic Church and the Jesuit Order drew the manpower and economic resources needed for their attempts to reintroduce the spiritual rule of Rome into the Scandinavian North. These were foremost the Jesuit College in Braunsberg, which fell into the Swedish hands in 1626, and Olomouc. The Swedes occupied Olomouc from 1642 to 1650. They plundered the university's vast library and the population of the town declined from over to . As a result, Olomouc University's most precious relics are now in the National Library of Sweden in Stockholm, including codices made under the patronage of Bishop of Olomouc Jindřich Zdík.\n\nAfter the war ended the Jesuits started an extensive construction programme, building a series of imposing Baroque buildings for the Order and University in order to advertise their newly acquired domination of the Czech lands. This was happening against the background of savage re-Catholization which, along with war and plague saw the population decline from over 3 million to some 800,000 people. Even the Czech language was considered to be heresy by the Jesuits who were burning books written in Czech: the language was gradually reduced to nothing more than a means of communication between peasants, most of whom were illiterate. The era, generally described as the \"Dark Age of the Czech Nation\", was nevertheless a period of expansion for the Jesuit University of Olomouc: several sciences were now taught at the university, including mathematics and physics (by Jakub Kresa and Jan Tesánek), and cartography (by Valentin Stansel). Hebrew was also studied. Among notable people connected with the university at the time are the mathematician Jan Marek Marci and the historian Bohuslav Balbín.\n\nThe make-up of the university changed. Before the war the majority of lecturers were foreigners: now most of them were from Czech Crown lands. The number of students rose to 1,500 in 1727: in addition to locals there were many students from Hungary, Lusatia, Poland and Lithuania as well as from Russia.\n\nMost of the older Protestant nobility having been either killed or expelled, the new Moravian nobility were keen to expand the range of areas taught beyond just theology and philosophy. Despite opposition from the Jesuits, the Emperor Leopold I authorized the introduction of legal studies in 1679. A vigorous power struggle between the Jesuits and secular legal professors ensued. Several interventions by Emperors were needed to keep the legal studies going during the following decades. Karel Ferdinand Irmler started to lecture in both canonical and secular law at the university. However, the quarrels with the rector became so intense that the nobility requested him to teach only secular law. Consequently, he was forbidden to give lectures at the university and had to teach in his home, while later professors gave law lectures in the building of Olomouc court. In 1725 the nobility forced the establishment of the – the Academy of Nobility – by the decree of Emperor Charles VI. By this time the Emperor had compelled the Jesuits to accept without obstruction the study of secular law at the university. The law professors were lecturing at both the university and the academy (where in addition to law, economics, mathematics, geometry, history and geography along with architecture – both civil and military – were also now available). The academy remained in Olomouc until 1847, when it was relocated to Brno: here it became the basis for what was later to become the Brno University of Technology.\n\nDuring the rule of Queen Maria Theresa of Austria (from 1740 to her death in 1780) tertiary education in the Habsburg Monarchy underwent reform in an effort to put it under state control. At Olomouc the Office of Faculty Directors was established in 1752: the directors were directly answerable to the Queen. In 1754 there were 10 professors of theology giving lectures to 241 students, 5 professors of philosophy giving lectures to 389 students and 3 professors of law giving lectures to 40 students. The number of students reached its peak in 1772, when there were altogether 1859 of them.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1746, Faculty of Philosophy alumni Joseph von Petrasch established the first learned society in the lands under control of Austrian Habsburgs, the Societas eruditorum incognitorum in terris Austriacis. Not connected with the university, the Olomouc-based Society was publishing the first scientific journal in the monarchy, the Monatliche auszüge.\n\nThe power struggle between the empress Maria Theresa and Jesuits escalated in 1765. Until then, the position of university's \"Rector Magnificus\" was automatically in the hands of the rector of the Jesuit order. Firstly, the Empress took away the Jesuit's monopoly over the position by imposing that the \"Rector Magnificus\" was to be elected by academia. As a theologian was elected \"Rector Magnificus\" in 1765, the empress assumed the power and appointed her own favourite, secular professor of law Johann Heinrich Bösenselle, as the head of university in 1766. Meanwhile, the Empress decided to fortify the town heavily, in line with contemporary practice and reflecting the increased military threat from Prussia. The consequence of constraining the city within its upgraded fortifications was that scope for commercial development became very restricted. Olomouc's experience was in stark contrast with that of Brno to the south, which was further away from the Silesian war zones, and which became the centre of the Moravian Industrial Revolution.\n\nIn July 1773, responding to pressure from the new emperor, Pope Clement XIV dissolved the Jesuit Order and the university came under intensified state control. Several university buildings were taken over for use by the army, and by the end of the 1770s the university was left with only the St. Xavier's building (currently the Faculty of Theology). At the same time the main language was changed from Latin to German; the Czech language remained in use for lectures to trainee priests, who would need it to communicate with their congregations. Czech gained importance in the 1830s as part of the Czech National Revival.\n\nBy the closing decades of the eighteenth century Brno had become the \"de facto\" capital of Moravia. This fact, as well as dissatisfaction with the university management due to persisting influence of the Church, led to the university relocating there in 1778. In Brno, the number of students declined to mere 575. There were nine professors at the faculty of theology, two at law and four at philosophy (one of which was professor of \"Political science\", which would later become part of the faculty of law).\n\nHowever, at the end of 1777 the diocese of Olomouc had been elevated to the status of an archdiocese, and in 1782 the first Archbishop of Olomouc Antonín Theodor Colloredo-Waldsee enforced relocation back by decree of Emperor Joseph II. At the same time the institution lost its university status, becoming a mere academic Lyceum. The Emperor had decided to retain only three universities, in Prague, Vienna, and Lviv. Teaching of medicine became a separate field, in which surgeons and obstetricians' assistants were taught.\nSignificant loss of rights and privileges resulted from the change to an academic \"Lyceum\". Legal jurisdiction over professors and students was no more: in 1783 the right to award Masters and Doctoral degrees was taken over by the Emperor (Bachelor degrees in philosophy were however awarded until 1821), and lectures were significantly cut back. However, after the death of Joseph II the situation gradually eased. Theology courses were restored to a full five years, while Philosophy was extended to three years and by 1810 Legal Studies took four years. By 1804 the Lyceum had some 730 students, which was comparable with University of Prague's 760. In 1805 studies were temporarily suspended, as many students entered the army during the Napoleonic Wars. Another suspension of lectures took place in 1809 because the Lyceum's buildings were taken over to accommodate army personnel. In 1826, there were altogether 26 professors at the Lyceum.\n\nAttempts to restore the Lyceum to full university status finally succeeded in 1827, when the Cardinal Archbishop of Olomouc, Rudolf Johannes Joseph Rainier von Habsburg-Lothringen (brother of the Emperor Francis II), persuaded the Emperor to promote the Lyceum, which now became the Francis University, with Faculties of Philosophy, Theology, and Law and School of Medicine and Surgery.\n\nThe university was again reaching its previous standard. For example, in 1839 there were seven law, seven philosophy and one theology doctoral degrees awarded, while 25 graduates obtained diploma in medicine and surgery. The number of students of Medicine and Surgery rose to some 100 every year, which was the second highest in the lands under control of Austrian Habsburgs (after University of Graz).\n\nOlomouc became important centre of Czech National awakening. In 1834 the Department of Czech Language and Literature was established at the Academy.\n\nThe 1848 revolution was welcomed by the university's students and professors. Some 11,000 people lived in Olomouc by this time, which was only a third of estimated population level back in 1600. The local garrison in 1848 nevertheless contained some 5,000 soldiers, which was a powerful anti-revolutionary force. Mostly the students and professors of law and philosophy were supportive of the Revolution, while the theologians distanced themselves from it. In March 1848 the students and professors petitioned the Emperor requesting, among other things, lectures in the Czech language and extensions to the university's freedoms and privileges. Later during the same month they established armed Academic Legion of 382 men: its first company consisted of lawyers while the second comprised philosophers and members of the medical faculty. Many of these left Olomouc in order to support the actions of revolutionary students in Vienna. Leading revolutionaries from Olomouc University included professors Ignác Jan Hanuš, Jan Helcelet and Andreas Jeitteles. These, together with students, participated in associations and started newspapers in Czech and German. The black-red-golden flag of Burschenschaft waived over the university buildings.\n\nAlthough many students were supporting the Revolution regardless of their ethnicity, there was a clear ideological split between the Czech and German partisans as to the aims of the Revolution. While the German faction supported the goal of a \"Greater Germany\", the Czech side favoured some form of democratic federation of Austrian and Slavic nations. The Czechs took part in the Prague Slavic Congress while the \"Greater Germany\" faction joined in the Frankfurt Congress. Growing government alarm was reflected at the Olomouc fortress which was in full combat readiness by July 1848, which was enough to deter revolutionary actions in the town.\n\nBy October 1848 the Revolution in this region had been defeated, and indeed the Emperor with his court moved to Olomouc where, at the archbishop's palace, he abdicated in favour of his nephew in December 1848. At the university, supporters of Revolution were persecuted, while many who had remained conservative (including, notably, Theology Faculty members) would in the longer term benefit from their restraint.\n\nThe university came out of the revolution as essentially bilingual (Czech and German) institution. In due course the university's support for the democratisation and the Czech National Revival brought retribution from the government in Vienna. In 1851, as the régime regained self-confidence, growing government intolerance of dissent and the subsequent decline in student numbers led to the closure of the Faculty of Philosophy. The Faculty of Law, which in 1849 had actually started teaching in the Czech language, was closed at the start of the 1855/56 academic year. In 1860 Emperor Franz Joseph I closed virtually the whole university. Only the independent Faculty of Theology and the independent University Library remained open, for nearly another eighty years, until, following the German invasion, all the Czech Universities were closed in November 1939. The School of Surgery also survived the emperor's decree in 1860, but closed in 1875.\n\nOlomouc University's regalia were transferred to University of Innsbruck. Since the establishment of Czechoslovakia in 1918, the Czechs have been unsuccessfully requesting return of University of Olomouc original ceremonial equipment. The situation as of 2013 is as follows:\n\nThere were efforts to reopen the university during the 1890s and again, after the establishment of an independent Czechoslovakia, in 1918, but all these attempts failed.\n\nOn 21 February 1946 the Interim National Assembly passed the Olomouc University Restoration Act, which anticipated restoration of Faculties of Theology, Law, Medicine, Philosophy. Exactly one year later, the university was reopened, with no Faculty of Law but one of Education, which was established by a separate Act of 9 April 1946.\n\nThe Communist takeover in 1948 led to changes that would affect all Czech universities. Palacký University was hit by the persecutions, but since the university had only recently reopened, relatively few members of the Palacký academic community were affected. Nevertheless, in 1950 the Faculty of Theology was closed again, reflecting the Communist government's mistrust of the churches. The establishment in 1952 of the Olomouc School of Education (with faculties of Social Sciences and Natural Sciences) was followed by a gradual closure of the Faculty of Philosophy and Faculty of Education. Therefore, in years 1954–1958 the Palacký University had only Faculty of Medicine. The School of Education was itself closed in 1958, re-establishing once again the university's Faculty of Philosophy, and affiliating the Faculty of Science. The Faculty of Education was created later in 1964: the university, as in earlier centuries, once again consisted of four faculties.\nDuring the Prague Spring, which attracted much international attention in 1968, many members of the Palacký academic community took part in democratisation efforts, seeking to move the ruling totalitarian dictatorship towards socialist democracy. The movement was crushed and the reforms reversed when combined Warsaw Pact armies from the Soviet Union, Bulgaria, East Germany, Hungary and Poland invaded Czechoslovakia. Soviet military occupation followed. At this time the \"Union of University Students of Bohemia and Moravia\", a new student organisation, was established at Olomouc, and later organised student strikes in Autumn 1968. At the same time efforts were made to restore the Faculty of Theology, but they failed and it remained no more than a branch of the Charles University Theological Faculty of Litoměřice, and was forced to shut down again in 1974.\n\nThe Communist regime's efforts to \"restore order\" in a so-called \"Normalization\" process between 1969 and 1989, involved mass purges of academic staff, which in one way or another affected one lecturer in four.\n\nIn 1989 the \"Student Strike Committee\" was the only Velvet Revolution movement in Olomouc.\n\nToday the university comprises 8 faculties with some students.\n\nThe university is also the patron of the annual Academia Film Olomouc festival and Olomouc Festival of Film Animation.\n\n\nThe Palacký University has eight faculties. These faculties are theology, philosophy, law, medicine and dentistry, education, science, physical culture, and health science (in historical order). As of 2011, four of the faculties have female deans (theology, law, education and health sciences).\n\nThere is no faculty of technology, as there are three technological universities within about hour's drive from Olomouc (Technical University in Ostrava to the North, University of Technology in Brno to the South and Tomáš Baťa University in Zlín to the East).\n\nThe Faculty of Theology is the oldest one, being there already in 1573 when the Olomouc College was promoted to the university. It was perceived by the Czech Protestant population as the core symbol of recatholization forced by Habsburgs, which led to the Jesuits being driven out of Olomouc at the beginning of the Bohemian Revolt and whole university being closed in the years 1618–1621. The Faculty of Theology continued to have university privileges, including the right to award university degrees even when the university itself was downgraded to Lyceum in the years 1782–1827. Following the Habsburg repression of the university in 1860, it was the only functioning faculty up until the re-establishment of the whole University in 1946, together with the University Library safeguarding the continuation between the old and re-established University of Olomouc. The Faculty's name was extended to Saints Cyril and Methodius Faculty of Theology in 1919. It was closed by the Germans in 1939–1945 with its students and professors being enslaved and deported to work in Germany. It was closed again by the communists in 1950–1968 and repeatedly in 1974–1989.\n\nWhile historically the Faculty was preparing future priests, its mission was extended in 1992. The Faculty offers bachelor's degrees and master's degrees in \"Theology\", in \"Catholic Pedagogy\" run in collaboration with the Faculty of Education, and in \"Social and Charitative Work\" run in collaboration with College of Social Work Olomouc. It also offeres Doctorates of Theology in three fields as well as lifelong learning.\n\nIn 2000 a student of the Faculty Václav Novák uncovered child sex abuse case of Catholic priest František Merta. Novák also alleged, that the archbishop of Olomouc Jan Graubner was aware of the abuse, but instead of involving the state authorities he covered evidence and introduced policy of transferring abusive priests to different parishes. While František Merta was convicted, Jan Graubner's involvement has been never substantially proven. Václav Novák was later that year kicked out of the Faculty for alleged non-fulfilment of study duties, while Novák asserted that his exclusion is in fact punishment for uncovering Graubner's participation in the child sex abuse case.\n\nIn the academic year 2010/11 there were students, with a faculty:student ratio of 1:53.\n\nAs the Czech Republic has one of the least religious populations in the world, the Catholic Church faces lack of Czechs interested in being ordinated as priests. Shortages of Czech priest students and priests both generally and at the Faculty of Theology are balanced by their importation from other countries, foremost from Poland.\n\nThe Faculty of Philosophy (\"Faculty of Liberal Arts\" in the traditional sense) was established three years after the Olomouc College got University rights. Englishman George Warr professed the first lecture on logics on 3 October 1576. From the beginning it was teaching the liberal arts, the \"Trivium\" (grammar, rhetoric, dialectics) which led to the Baccalaureus degree, and the Quadrivium (arithmetic, music, geometry and astronomy) which led to the Magister degree. Sharing the fate of Theological faculty in years 1618–1621, it saw a great revival with not so much the field of philosophy, but the fields of science, mathematics, physics, astronomy, cartography and finally also genetics being pursued by notable persons connected to the Faculty (however these fields are today read at the Faculty of Science). Following the Olomouc University students' participation in 1848 revolution the Faculty of Philosophy was the first one to be suppressed by the Habsurgs in 1851. It was reestablished in 1946. With 1953 establishment of the School of Education of Olomouc the Palacký University Faculty of Philosophy was dissolved until being reopened in 1958.\n\nToday its students can study more than 600 combinations of subjects in the large spectrum of humanities, social sciences, linguistics and arts integration. Some may be studied by distance education, and others are also offered as lifelong learning.\n\nThe Philosophical Faculty offers bachelor's and master's degrees in Philology of Chinese, Czech, Dutch, English, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish and Ukrainian. In the field of languages it further offers degrees on English, French, Dutch, Polish, Russian, Ukrainian and Japanese, all of them with specialization in Applied economics. There are further studies of History, Musicology, Psychology, the Theory and History of the Dramatic Arts, the Theory and History of the Visual Arts, Political Science and European Studies, Euroculture as Erasmus Mundus programme, Adult Education, Philosophy, Sociology, Archives Keeping, Journalism, Social sciences, Jewish studies and many of other programmes.\n\nStudents who plan to teach at secondary schools can obtain the required qualifications by passing courses in pedagogy and psychology during late part of their study.\n\nThe Faculty offers doctoral studies in Czech Language, Czech Literature, French Literature, Romance Languages, German Language, German Literature, English and American literature, English Language, Russian Language, Polish Language, History – Czech and Slovak history, General History, Auxiliary Historical Sciences, Political Science, Philosophy, Sociology, Clinical Psychology, Educational psychology, Andragogy, Theory of Literature, Theory and History of Literature, Theatre and Film, Theory and History of Fine Arts, Theory and History of Music.\n\nThe Centre for Distance Learning, together with other departments, offers a wide range of activities for the general public (e.g. courses of graphology, courses for social workers, etc.).\n\nIn 2011 the faculty had students. In 2010 about people registered for the entrance examinations.\n\nThe Faculty also provides courses for international students. The Summer School of Slavic Languages has a long tradition and a very good reputation.\n\nAlthough there were attempts in the 1580s to establish also Faculties of Law and Medicine, they failed due to lack of financing. While Canon law was read at the Faculty of Theology since 1667, it was especially the Moravian Nobility, which pursued establishment of secular Professorate of Law in 1679 by a decree of Emperor Leopold I. The first Olomouc professor of law was Karel Ferdinand Irmler. The secular legal studies faced very strong opposition from the Jesuits: initially the professors taught at private premises, while later the lectures were held at the Olomouc Court of Law. Large number of Emperors' interventions was needed to secure continuation of legal studies in following decades. Since 1709 the Olomouc University law professors were appointed directly by the Emperor, in 1714 the Jesuits were forced to accept secular legal lectures within the university grounds. The situation improved after establishment of the Academy of Nobility in 1725 (law professors taught at both the university and academy). In 1732 Olomouc became the first law school in the Habsburg monarchy to teach Fief and Public law at an independent department. Later, in 1755, the lectures were extended to cover also international and natural law. In 1766 the first non-Jesuit University Rector was appointed – the professor of law Johann Heinrich Bösenselle.\n\nIn the 1760s the Olomouc law school became the centre of the Enlightenment in the Habsburg Monarchy with professor Josef Vratislav Monse as its most important figure facing very strong opposition of the Jesuits. In 1778 the Professorate was elevated to Directorate, and it officially became fully fledged Faculty of Law in 1784, entering its best era before 1848 Revolution. The professors and students of law were the main force of the Revolution in Olomouc.\n\nBeing forced to shut down by the Habsburg régime at the beginning of study year 1855/1856, it was re-established by the Olomouc University Restoration Act of 1946, however in fact the Faculty could be reopened only following the Velvet Revolution, in 1991. In its new era, the Faculty became one of the pioneers of clinical legal education in the Continental Europe.\n\nIn 1996 it was the first law school in Central Europe to introduce legal clinics and even now it is the only faculty in the Czech Republic that provides to its students wide range of clinical education. The clinics were quickly expanded and improved, especially after 2006 thanks to a project to advance practical education, which gained financial support from both the Czech national budget and from the European Social Fund. In 2011 there were more than 15 clinical subjects.\n\nThe Faculty offers four programmes: a five-year-long master's degree in \"Law and Legal Theory\", a three-year-long Bachelor's degree in \"Legal specialisation\" aimed at public administration workers, a two-year-long postgraduate master's degree in \"European studies with focus on European law\" (offered also as double degree with University of Salzburg Faculty of Law) and a doctorate in \"Theoretical legal science\". The degree (JUDr.) may be also obtained.\n\nIn 2011, 329 students were accepted to the five-year \"Law\" course out of applicants. The bachelor courses accept about 60 students each year, with the European studies program accepting 50. In 2011 students of Law in aggregate totalled ; the student-teacher ratio was 83.\n\nMedical lectures started in 1753 at the Faculty of Philosophy. As the university was relocated to Brno in 1778, the Department of Surgery was established by the Faculty of Philosophy. This department in 1782 became the university's Department of Surgery. The Department of Medicine and Surgery was disaffiliated in 1849 and continued operation independently until it was closed later in 1873. The Faculty was reestablished in 1946. With the Faculty of Law not being actually reopened in the 1950s, the Faculty of Theology being suppressed by the communists in 1950 and with Faculty of Philosophy being closed in 1954, it was the sole faculty of the university from year 1954 to year 1958, in which the Faculty of Philosophy was reestablished while the new Faculty of Science opened.\n\nThe Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry offers six-year-long Masters programs of General Medicine and five-year-long programs of Dentistry. Both programs may be studied completely either in Czech or English. The faculty also offers 23 doctoral programs in Czech and English.\n\nPractical education is carried out mostly at the Olomouc Faculty Hospital. The hospital is with its 1407 beds and 49 departments and clinics the largest one in Olomouc Region. It was established in 1892 and opened four years later. Its Eye Clinic was the place of the world's first successful tissue transplantation in 1905 (performed by Eduard Konrad Zirm). During the years 1992–2004 it was enlarged and modernised and today it is one of the most modern Czech hospitals. A construction of a new department called BIOMEDREG will begin in 2010. It will focus on cancer and infectious deceases research and treatment and is scheduled to open in 2013.\n\nThe faculty's long-term research and development focuses on four fields: oncology, heart disease and vein disorders, experimental toxicology and pharmacology, and organ transplants. The research teams focus on molecular biology, immunology and epidemiology.\n\nIn the academic year 2008/2009 there were students of General Medicine (180 of them studying in English), 450 students of dentistry, and 360 doctoral students.\n\nWhile other Faculties were reestablished by the Olomouc University Restoration Act of 21 February 1946, the Faculty of Education was established by a separate act of April 1946: after a 1945 Beneš decree the interim Czechoslovak Parliament passed the law which created educational faculties in existing universities (the ones in other universities were closed by the German occupiers in 1939).\n\nBeing established 1946 the Faculty of Education was educating future teachers of kindergarten and primary and secondary schools, as well as providing courses for those already teaching. Education of prospective secondary school teachers was done jointly with the Faculty of Philosophy (in the fields of music, drawing and physical arts). 1953 brought complete reform of teacher training methods. The Faculty became the base for the newly established School of Education (separate from the university), so between 1954 and 1964 the Faculty in its former sense did not exist. Teacher training for kindergartens and the first four years of primary education was conducted by the universities, while prospective teachers of years 5−8 of primary schools were educated in specialist higher schools (there was none of this type in Olomouc). In 1960 the so-called \"Educational Institutes\" were established to educate prospective primary school teachers. Another reform of 1964 transformed these institutes into Faculties of Education and integrated them into the existing universities. This opened the current period of the Faculty's history. Since 1990 the Faculty has specialised foremost in education of prospective primary- and secondary-school teachers.\n\nThe Faculty of Education provides tertiary education to prospective teachers of kindergartens, grammar schools, secondary schools and other pedagogical and educational establishments. It also educates public employees of both the government and quango sectors. The Faculty offers Bachelor's degrees, Master's degrees and Doctorates of Philosophy, as well as appointing Professors.\n\nIn 2011 there were students of the faculty; the number of freshmen was and there were 1347 graduates; there were also students of other forms of education forms such as lifelong learning. The faculty has a student-teacher ratio of 184.1.\n\nThe fields of science, mathematics, physics, astronomy, cartography as well as genetics were pursued already by notable persons connected to the old Olomouc University's Faculty of Philosophy. In \"1953\" the Olomouc School of Education was established with Faculty of Social Sciences and Faculty of Natural Sciences. The latter one was in 1958 incorporated into the university as the Faculty of Science.\n\nThe Faculty of Science is oriented to research and offers Bachelor's degrees, Master's degrees and Doctorates of Philosophy in various fields such as mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, Earth sciences, and so on. Since 2009 the faculty has residence in a new building not far from the city center, between the Faculty of Law and the university halls of residence. The biology workshops and some laboratories are situated on their own small campus at the south-east edge of the city.\n\nIn 2009 there were students studying at the faculty; the number of freshmen was while there were 713 graduates. The faculty has 333 academic employees and other 600 non-academic workers.\n\nThe Faculty of Physical Culture was established in 1991. It has many different programmes, including education of prospective teachers of physical education (PE), Physical therapy, recreation and public security. These may be studied in three-year-long Bachelor's and 2-year-long postgraduate Master's programmes. The faculty also has the doctoral program of Kinanthropology.\n\nIts research efforts focus in fields of issues and prevention of physical, mental and sociological health of a man in relation to physical activities; basic problems of the human motor system, its diagnosis and improvement; methodological problems of education of PE; development of new fields and finding solutions issues of specific fields.\n\nWith the Neředín hall of residence (used mostly by foreign students) the Faculty's buildings constitute a small campus on the western outskirts of the city.\n\nIn 2011 there were students at the faculty; the number of freshmen was 873 while there were 367 graduates.\n\nThe Faculty of Health Sciences was founded in 2008, and so it is the youngest of the eight faculties. It was established by spinning off some fields from the Faculty of Medicine.\n\nSince 1992 the Faculty of Medicine had offered bachelor programmes of \"Nursing\" and \"Therapeutic Rehabilitation and Physiotherapy\". In 1996 the \"Institute of Nursing Practice and Theory\" was established at the faculty. This act of separation was supported by Virginia Commonwealth University and led to the empowerment of the field. Since 2000 the Masters program of \"Economics and Management of Health Services\" has been taught. In 2002 other fields were added such as \"Obstetric Assistant\". In 2003 a vice-dean for these fields was appointed for the first time. In 2006 the faculty's structure changed by the creation of the \"Center of Health (Non-Physician) Fields\", which later became the base for the Faculty of Health Sciences.\n\nIn 2011 there were 815 students at the faculty.\n\nThe Academic Sports Centre offers sports, excursions, and other activities for University students and employees. The offer covers dozens of fields from yoga, dance, callanetics, firearms shooting, and martial arts to team sports, paintball, equestrianism and golf.\n\nThere are several University buildings provided for these activities. The University Sports Hall meets Olympic Games requirements for volleyball, basketball and handball matches. The whole complex of outdoor sports grounds together with the university docks appertain to the hall. Another gymnasium is at the buildings of the Faculty of Physical Culture (on the Neředín campus), and another is next to the Olomouc Hockey Stadium. Others are within halls of residence.\n\nUniversity sport championships are not major events in the Czech Republic as they are in the United States for example. So many students' sporting life is connected more with Olomouc town (especially when it comes to supporting a team); different Olomouc sport clubs play in national and international leagues, such SK Sigma Olomouc and 1. HFK Olomouc (football), HC Olomouc (ice hockey), and Skokani Olomouc (baseball).\n\nThe Centre for Information Technologies (IT) leads the development of, and safeguards the operational security of, University IT activities to support science and research activities, lectures and university administration. It is also responsible for implementing modern technologies and technical support as well as training University employees in their use.\n\nMost University buildings have free Wi-Fi, while nearly every dormitory room has a high speed wired LAN connection.\n\nThe library was established as the Jesuits were invited to Olomouc in 1566 to take control over the Olomouc College. Its bookstock consisted primarily of donations from bishops and noblemen. Particular generosity was shown by Vilém Prusinovský z Víckova, the Bishop of Olomouc, who gave the college to the Jesuits and allowed them to take for it any Greek or Latin books from the episcopal library.\n\nThe Swedish occupation of Olomouc from 1642 to 1650 led to total ruination of the library. Everything that had any value was stolen (including codices made under the patronage of the Bishop of Olomouc Jindřich Zdíka), while the rest was destroyed. Altogether some 100 wagons fully loaded with books and scripts were dispatched to Sweden. As a result, Olomouc University's most precious relics are now in the National Library of Sweden in Stockholm. The library was nevertheless restored relatively rapidly after the Swedes left.\n\nUnder the Jesuits the library was open only to the university's lecturers and students. Following the dissolution of the order in 1773 it was reconstituted as the \"Public University Library\", with the stress on more widely shared access. At the same time library funds from Moravian Jesuit Colleges that had been closed down were transferred to Olomouc University Library. Later on, funds from dissolved monasteries also found their way into the same budget.\n\nThe library continued in operation, together with the Faculty of Theology, after the university was closed down in 1860: this has ensured some continuity between the old and re-established universities in Olomouc. When the university was closed, the library held over 250,000 volumes. Then, the library's responsibilities included holding a copy of everything printed in Moravia (and for part of the period in Silesia). This would support the rapid and efficient development of scientific work after the re-establishment of university in 1946.\n\nInitially, in 1946 the University Library remained under the direct control of Ministry of Culture. It was renamed the Research Library in Olomouc in 1960 and placed under regional control, it retained, and still retains, the function of a public University Library. It is still administered separately from the university.\n\nNowadays the University Library itself is divided between the Central Library and a series of specialist libraries, most of them attached to the appropriate university faculty.\n\nThe Central Library, known as the \"Armoury\" (), is situated in the historic building of the former Theresian Artillery armoury almost in the town centre, directly in front of the Archbishop's Palace and next to the university Rectory and Philosophy Faculty.\n\nIn the Campaigns of 1742, the Habsburg Monarchy lost most of Silesia and Kłodzko (now in Poland) which were both Lands under the Czech Crown prior to 1742. Olomouc suddenly found itself close to the frontier with Prussia. The Empress Maria Theresa therefore decided to fortify the town. Olomouc's fortifications were extensively upgraded to match contemporary weapons. The artillery armoury became part of the fortification. Military considerations received absolute priority, and the Armoury was built right next to the Archbishop's palace: ecclesiastical buildings (such as the former \"Academy of Noblemen\") were even demolished to make space for it. Construction of the Armoury was completed in 1771.\n\nStrictly symmetrical both inside and out, the building is relatively large, featuring the military architecture characteristic of the period. Today the armoury is recognized as one of the most important buildings in Olomouc.\n\nThe Armoury was used by the military until 1989 (the Czech Army Joint Forces still have their headquasters in Olomouc today). After the Velvet Revolution, the armoury became the property of the university: it was then decided to accommodate the information centre in it. However, the building was in very poor condition and needed extensive reconstruction.\n\nReconstruction started in 1992 and in 1997 the Central Library opened. However, it was not until 2000 that the building works were finished and the whole building could be opened. The Central Library occupies about half of the Armoury, while the rest is occupied by the Centre for Information Technologies, the University Press, the University Archive and the Eurocentre.\n\nThe Saints Cyril and Methodius Faculty of Theology and the Faculties of Medicine, Science, Education, Physical Culture, Law, and Health Sciences each have their own libraries; the Faculty of Education's is called the Study Hall.\n\nThe British Centre Library is housed on the university grounds and run by the British Council.\n\nThe University Project Service is an information and consultancy centre which assists those wishing to obtain grants and donations. It also manages administrative and financial aspects of given projects and it lectures on the topic.\n\nThe Halls of Residence Bureau offers year-round accommodation and boarding for students, university employees and also for the general public (when there is spare capacity). Especially during the summer months, when most students vacate dormitories, it offers accommodation and boarding for both individual tourists and large groups (conferences, sports championships, and so on). The halls of residence have more than beds, while the boarding services are used by more than people daily.\n\nThere are rooms with one single bed, or two or three of them; some rooms are equipped with double beds. Most of the halls of residence are either close to the city centre (by the new Faculty of Science building) or on the outskirts, at the Neředín campus of Faculty of Physical Culture, while there are some buildings in other parts of town. Internet connections, intranet telephone lines, kitchens, study rooms and washing machines are standard equipment.\nCompared to other Czech universities, the student-bed ratio is relatively low (there are usually more beds than students). Although for the first couple of weeks of an academic year all beds are taken, within a month or two there are free beds. Therefore, the university can accommodate almost all those who want them, whereas many other Czech universities can provide room only for freshmen. Many students prefer to rent flats, because the rents are about the same as for halls of residence.\n\nAs the university is self-governing, and halls of residence are part of the university, there is also the Halls of Residence Council. Students in halls vote for representatives (usually one for each building) to safeguard their rights. For example, the Halls of Residence Bureau needs the council's approval in case of price increase, or if it wants to evict a student for order disturbances.\n\nThe Science and Technology Park aims to bridge the gap between the academical-scientific world and private business, to use the university research potential in cooperation with private companies. It also helps starting entrepreneurs through its Business Incubator. Special attention is paid to fields of nanotechnology, biotechnology and information technology. It also manages the catalogue of university apparatus and services to make it accessible to private companies.\n\nThe University Press focuses especially on publishing the scientific and research activities of the university. It publishes and distributes works on subjects which are too specialized or have too narrow reader constituency to appeal to commercial publishers, as well as publishing study books, study texts and professional journals. In 2009 it had 28 employees and published 252 new releases and 343 other releases.\n\nThe Confucius Institute provides Chinese schooling. It follows in the footsteps of Karel Slavíček (1678–1735), alumnus of the Faculty of Philosophy, who was the first Czech sinologist. He wrote a treatise on Chinese music and was also the author of the first precise map of Beijing.\n\nCzech universities have a long tradition of self-governance and independence from state interference, which goes back to the Middle Ages. Today, self-governance is assured by the University Education Act No. 111/1998 (the Act deals only with public universities). The following governance bodies are similar for all Czech public universities.\n\nThe Academical Senate of a Czech public university is its self-governance representative body. According to the law it shall have at least eleven members, with at least one third and at most one half of its members being students. The Palacký University Academical Senate has twenty-four members, of which eight are students, the minimum of one third. Senators are elected by secret ballot for a period of three years. The students' and lecturers' curia are elected separately. Each faculty is represented by two lecturers and one student (independent of the number of faculty students).\n\nThe Academical Senate has the most important role in the life of the university, as most acts of other university administration are either governed by rules and regulations adopted by the Senate (such as the Statute of university) or require the approval of the Senate (such as the yearly budget of the university). The Senate adopts internal regulations, it controls the use of university finances and property, and following the rector's proposal it appoints and dismisses members of the Scientific Board, Disciplinary Commission, and so on.\n\nThe Senate also nominates a candidate for the position of rector (who is appointed by the president of the Czech Republic). The nomination must be agreed by a simple majority of all senators, while a dismissal must be agreed by at least three fifths of all senators. The vote to elect or repeal a rector is secret, while other Senate votes are open. A senator may not also be the rector, vice-rector, a faculty dean or a vice-dean.\nThe 2011–2014 leadership is:\n\nThe Palacký Academical Senate has also two commissions: the Economic Commission and the Legislative Commission.\n\nThe Rector is the head of the university. The Rector acts in the name of the university and decides the university's affairs unless prohibited by law. The Rector is nominated by the University Academical Senate and appointed by the President of the Czech Republic. The term of office is four years and a person may hold it for at most two consecutive terms.\n\nThe rector appoints vice-rectors, who act as deputies to the extent the rector determines. Rectors' salaries are determined directly by the Minister of Education.\n\nThe first rector was in 1573 Hurtado Pérez. Until 1765, the position of \"Rector Magnificus\" was automatically in the hands of the rector of Jesuit Order. The first non-jesuit Rector was in 1766 Johann Heinrich Bösenselle. Among the most notable rectors are the founder of modern Moravian historiography Josef Vratislav Monse or Slovenian philosopher Franz Samuel Karpe. In 1950, Palacký University became the first Czech university to have a female Rector – Jiřina Popelová. The current rector is Professor Jaroslav Miller. He has appointed seven vice-rectors, one of them being the previous rector: Professor Lubomír Dvořák (now vice-rector for regional development).\n\nThe Scientific Board consists of notable representatives in the fields in which the university executes educational, scientific, research, artistic or other creative activity. It is chaired by the university rector. No more than two-thirds of the board members can be members of the university's academical community. The Scientific Board discusses the university's long-term objectives. It approves study programmes (unless such approval falls under the authority of a faculty Scientific Board) and it also participates in the process of assigning a professor title.\n\nIn July 2010, the board had 36 members, 22 of them being professors, the rest (except one) being \"docents\".\n\nThe members of the University Disciplinary Commission (as well as the chairman) are appointed by the rector (subject to Senate approval) to serve for two years. Half the members are students. Because all Palacký University students are enrolled into their respective faculties, there is no need for a central University Disciplinary Commission, but there are Disciplinary Commissions at each faculty (the members being appointed by a dean, subject to Faculty Senate approval). The Disciplinary Commissions handle disciplinary misdemeanours of the students and they propose the verdicts to the respective faculty Dean.\n\nThe Administrative Council approves some of the university deeds (real estate transactions, establishing other legal personalities for the university, the transfer of money or property between them, and so on) and it gives its opinion on the university budget, long-term University objectives, and so on. Members are appointed by the Minister of Education (after discussion with the rector) for a period of six years; one third of the council is appointed every two years. Members represent the general public, municipal and regional authorities as well as state administration. University employees cannot be Council members. Sessions take place at least twice a year. Election of the chairman, vice-chairman and rules of procedure are set by the University Statute\n\nAmong the fifteen members of Palacký University Administrative Council are Jan Březina MEP, Archbishop of Olomouc Jan Graubner, and Olomouc Region Governor Martin Tesařík.\n\nThe Bursar is responsible for the management and administration of the university and also represents the university to the extent determined by the rector, who appoints and revokes the Bursar. As of July 2010 the office is held by Henrieta Crkoňová.\n\n\nThe faculties are parts of the university. Only the university as a whole is a legal personality. Nevertheless, the internal affairs of faculties are run by their respective self-governing bodies, which have similar rules and functions as those at the university level. Each faculty therefore has a Faculty Senate (also with students' and lecturers' curia), which among other things nominates the Dean (appointed by the rector). As mentioned before, disciplinary misdemeanours are tried by the Faculty Disciplinary Commissions, while issues concerning study programmes are dealt with by the Faculty Scientific Boards. Each faculty has a secretary instead of a bursar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080776", "title": "Goosegrass", "text": "Goosegrass\n\nGoosegrass (sometimes goose grass) is a common name for several grasses, sedges, and annual herbs. The origin of the name is due either to a plant's use as food for geese or plant parts that look like the foot of a goose.\n\nGoosegrass may refer to:\nPlants named goosegrass\n"}
{"id": "2080781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080781", "title": "Gill Stadium", "text": "Gill Stadium\n\nGill Stadium is a sporting stadium located in Manchester, New Hampshire. It is one of the oldest concrete-and-steel ballparks in the United States. The venue, which mainly hosts amateur baseball and football contests, has a capacity of 3,012.\n\nChildren and organized amateur teams had played baseball since at least 1880 in the area east of the Valley Cemetery, which was known as \"the Plains.\"\n\nA ballpark called the Beech Street Grounds was built on the site of Gill Stadium at the corner of Beech and Valley Streets, on land owned by the Amoskeag Manufacturing Company. The park had a wooden fence and two wooden grandstands. Its main entrance was located on Beech Street. This was near third base, and home plate was in the field's southwest corner. Baseball was played there between 1891 and 1894. In its first two years, the park was home to a minor-league baseball team, the Manchester Amoskeags of the New England League.\n\nIn 1894, local businessman Thomas Varick purchased an interest in the park, moved the two grandstands and designated one as men-only, constructed a 40-foot-wide, quarter-mile dirt bicycle and running track, and renamed the complex Varick Park. The baseball diamond was reoriented so that home plate was along the west (Beech Street) side of the field and the entrance was off Valley Street. As well as baseball, the park hosted track-and-field events, football and soccer games, and outdoor events for Amoskeag.\n\nDuring the 1890s, control of Varick Park passed from Varick to William Freeman. The park was again home to several minor-league baseball teams in the New England League called the Manchester Amoskeags in 1891, the Manchesters in 1899, and the Manchester Textiles in 1906.\n\nIn June 1912, Amoskeag officials began negotiations with Freeman to take control of the park for use by the city manufacturers' baseball league. In December 1912, Amoskeag announced that the field had been renamed Textile Field and that it would be reoriented and completely rebuilt as a modern, brick-and-concrete baseball facility.\n\nThe current grandstand was built in 1913 at a cost of more than $30,000. It was designed by Amoskeag engineers using brick in the style and color of the mills in Amoskeag's millyard, and built by the Amoskeag Textile Club, which was funded by Amoskeag and whose members were Amoskeag employees.\n\nA single, covered grandstand was built, gently curved to provide for watching either baseball or football. For safety, concrete ramps were constructed along the sides and rear of the grandstand. Steel trusses and posts supported the roof. Although portions of the roof, floor, and some of the posts supporting the seating platform were of wood, publications from the period of construction — including Amoskeag's employee newspaper, the \"Amoskeag Bulletin\" — considered it \"fireproof\", like those being built in major-league cities between 1909 and 1915.\n\nTextile Field was one of the first concrete-and-steel stadiums in the United States, the first not in a major city. Only Harvard Stadium in Allston, Massachusetts (1903), Rickwood Field in Birmingham, Alabama (1910), and Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts (1912) are older surviving examples.\n\nThe construction appears to have been part of Amoskeag's benevolence programs. Amoskeag, which employed about 17,000 people in a city of 65,000, included among its workforce a large number of immigrants. In the minds of Amoskeag managers, the most troublesome of this group were the most recent arrivals from Greece. Recent immigrants from southern and eastern Europe were being blamed for the 1912 Bread and Roses Strike in nearby Lawrence, Massachusetts, which resulted in much violence and the involvement of the radical Industrial Workers of the World union. Amoskeag, which was not unionized, wanted no such trouble, particularly in light of the fact that IWW operatives were seen in Manchester during the Lawrence strike. The company hoped to find a way to \"Americanize\" its workforce, thereby giving workers a stronger connection to the company and to the United States, and to find diversionary activities, like baseball, to keep them from unionizing in their free time.\n\nAmoskeag, along with the McElwain Shoe Company and other industries in Manchester, organized the city Manufacturers' League in 1912. The league played at three locations in Manchester, of which Varick Park was the most important. Its reconstruction in 1913 as Textile Field made the league seem more professional. Textile Field made its debut over Memorial Day weekend of 1913, but the grandstand was not entirely completed until late July. The dedication game came on September 8, when the World Champion Boston Red Sox — playing its major-league lineup for nearly the entire game — defeated the Manufacturers' League All-Stars, 3-1. A year later, the World Champion Philadelphia Athletics defeated the All-Stars, 7-1. The score and the \"vaudeville\" act put on by the Athletics in the final inning — in which they changed positions and performed \"trick\" plays — made Amoskeag reconsider its commitment. Increased on- and off-field problems with players, who were hired ostensibly to work for the textile company but in reality were employed for their baseball skills, also led the Textile Club to withdraw its support for the Manufacturers League.\n\nA team from the New England League moved from Fitchburg, Massachusetts to Textile Field in July 1914 as the Manchester Textiles. It played there in 1915 as well. Thereafter, Textile Field became the sole domain of the city's manufacturers and schools until 1926. In September 1923, Amoskeag brought in the National League's Brooklyn Robins (now known as the Los Angeles Dodgers) to play against the company team.\n\nTextile Field was purchased by the City of Manchester in 1927 and, in a name-the-field contest conducted by the \"Manchester Union-Leader\", renamed Athletic Field. Athletic Field hosted three professional teams of the New England League: The Manchester Blue Sox played there from 1926–1930, winning championships in 1926 and 1929, but the league folded in mid-1930. The Manchester Giants, affiliated with the New York Giants, made the post-season in 1946 and 1947; and the Manchester Yankees, affiliated with the New York Yankees, played there in 1948 but disbanded on July 19, 1949 for financial reasons.\n\nIn 1967, the stadium was renamed Gill Stadium, after former Parks and Recreation Director Ignace J. Gill, who served from 1935 to 1967. In 1971 and 1972, an Eastern League (class A) team, also called the Yankees, played there. Additionally, the Eastern League's Nashua Angels played a game at Gill Stadium in 1983.\n\nThe stadium was renovated extensively in preparation for the inaugural 2004 baseball season of the Eastern League's New Hampshire Fisher Cats (the class AA affiliate of the Toronto Blue Jays), acquiring an aluminum floor and molded plastic chairs, new clubhouses adjacent to the grandstand, and dugouts in what was formerly the dirt track. An elevator provided handicapped access to the rooftop press box. The grass surface was replaced with FieldTurf and the ticket booth and lavatories were renovated.\n\nThe Fisher Cats brought the 2004 Eastern League title home to Gill. In 2005, a new municipal baseball stadium — now known as Northeast Delta Dental Stadium — was completed along the Merrimack River near downtown, and the Fisher Cats made their scheduled move there.\n\nOver the years, Gill Stadium has served as the home field for city high-school and American Legion ball clubs. The stadium hosted the American Legion World Series on five occasions. Gill Stadium continues to host numerous amateur baseball teams, and Manchester's annual Thanksgiving football tournament, the Turkey Bowl, which pits two of the four city schools against each other each year based on their performance during the just-completed season.\n\nOn-site parking comprises 300 spaces, accessible from Beech Street. Additional parking may be available just north at the adjacent John F. Kennedy Memorial Coliseum, or on side streets.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080782", "title": "Northrop BQM-74 Chukar", "text": "Northrop BQM-74 Chukar\n\nThe BQM-74 Chukar is a series of aerial target drones produced by Northrop. The Chukar has gone through three major revisions, including the initial MQM-74A Chukar I, the MQM-74C Chukar II, and the BQM-74C Chukar III. They are recoverable, remote controlled, subsonic aerial target, capable of speeds up to Mach 0.86 and altitudes from 30 to 40,000 ft (10 to 12,000 m).\n\nThe BQM-74E is propelled during flight by a single Williams J400 (J400-WR-404) turbojet engine, which produces a maximum thrust of 240 pounds force (1068 N) at sea level. The BQM-74 is launched from a zero length ground launcher utilizing dual Jet Assisted Takeoff (JATO) bottles. When equipped with an air launch kit, the BQM-74 can be air launched from a TA-4J, F-16, Grumman Gulfstream I or DC-130 aircraft. The BQM-74 is used primarily as a realistic aerial target, capable of simulating enemy threats for gunnery and missile training exercises.\n\nDrones are capable of being recovered following a training exercise. A parachute is deployed by remote control or if the remote control link is severed and a flotation kit can be added for sea-based recovery. If recovery of the drone is required, special telemetry warheads are used on the defensive missile in place of explosives. This telemetry warhead is desirable since it allows for extensive analysis of the performance of the defensive missile, including miss distance information that determines if a real warhead would have damaged the target. A direct hit would likely destroy the drone. Gunnery systems would use non-explosive dummy munitions. Since gunnery systems are aimed in front of a moving target so it will fly through the blast-fragments, dummy munitions do not have to directly hit a target. Analysis of radar data would determine if actual explosive munitions would have damaged the target drone.\n\nThe Chukar series began in the early 1960s with a US Navy requirement for a new target drone. The company developed a prototype with the company designation of NV-105 and featuring a delta wing, flying it in 1964. The delta wing didn't work out and was replaced by a straight wing, resulting in the NV-105A, which was first flown in 1965. The NV-105A was accepted by the Navy and went into production as the MQM-74A in 1968.\n\nThe MQM-74A had a neatly tapered cigar-shaped fuselage, straight mid-mounted wings, an underslung jet engine with the intake under the wings, and a conventional tail configuration with the tailplanes set in an inverted vee. It was powered by a Williams International WR24-6 turbojet engine with a thrust of 121 pounds (538 N), and was launched by RATO booster from the ground or a ship. The Navy purchased 1,800 MQM-74A Chukar Is. Several hundred more were purchased in total by NATO for a multinational test range on the island of Crete, as well as the Royal Navy and the Italian Navy.\n\nChukar is the name of an Asian species of partridge, introduced to America and as they are hunted for sport, it seems that Northrop felt that the name was appropriate for an aircraft whose purpose in life is to be shot at. The name Chukar is only formally applied to export versions of the drone, but informally it is used for all variants.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, the US Naval Weapons Center used the MQM-74A as the basis for an experimental drone designated the XBQM-108, which was to be used to as a demonstrator for a \"pogo\" or \"tailsitter\" aircraft that could take off and land straight up and down on its tail. The fuselage, tailfin, radio control system, and parachute recovery system of the MQM-74A were retained, but the drone was fitted with a new wing, a Teledyne CAE J402 engine with a rotating vectored thrust exhaust, fixed tricycle landing gear, and additional flight control systems. The demonstrator was completed and was making tethered flights when the program was canceled.\n\nThe Navy liked the Chukar I but wanted a somewhat faster version, and in the early 1970s Northrop developed the improved experimental MQM-74B, which was followed by the production MQM-74C Chukar II. The Chukar II is difficult to distinguish from the Chukar I, but the Chukar II is slightly scaled up and uses an uprated Williams WR24-7 turbojet with 180 pound (800 N) thrust, giving it a top speed of 590 mph (950 km/h).\n\nLike the Chukar I, the Chukar II is ground or ship launched only. At least 1,400 Chukar IIs were built, mostly for the US Navy, but other customers included NATO, the United Kingdom, West Germany, Greece, Iran, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, and Spain.\n\nIn 1978, the US Navy requested a still more sophisticated drone, and Northrop responded with the BQM-74C Chukar III. This improved variant is visibly different from its predecessors, featuring a more cylindrical fuselage, in contrast with the tapered fuselage of its predecessors.\n\nThe BQM-74C incorporates a microprocessor-based autopilot that allows it to be programmed for much more sophisticated flight operations. The BQM-74C can be air launched as well as ground launched. The original engine was the Williams WR24-7A AKA J400-WR-402, with 180 pound (800 N) thrust, but in 1986 production was upgraded to the J400-WR-403 with 240 pound (1070 N) thrust. The BQM-74C is stressed for maneuvers of up to 6Gs. More than 1,600 BQM-74Cs have been built.\n\nNorthrop built ten BQM-74C Recce UAVs for tactical reconnaissance for US Navy evaluation, but this variant did not go into production.\n\nThe BQM-74C has now been replaced in production by the BQM-74E, which is externally all but identical but incorporates the uprated J400-WR-404 engine as standard, and has a third greater range and endurance than its predecessor.\n\nOn 6 January 2015 PHT, Filipino fishermen recovered a drone of this kind floating off in the waters near Patnanungan, Quezon Province, Philippines. \n\nIn the 1980s, Northrop built a next-generation target, the NV-144, that was substantially bigger and faster than the Chukar III, but the NV-144 did not enter production. The latest and current effort by Northrop Grumman to improve the Chukar is the BQM-74F variant of the Chukar (previously called the Target 2000). The BQM-74F has general configuration along the lines of the BQM-74C, but features swept wings, an empty weight of 600 pounds (270 kilograms), an uprated engine with 300 pound (1.33 kN) thrust, speed of up to Mach 0.93, and a design lifetime of 20 flights. The BQM-74F will be able to simulate a range of different aircraft and cruise missiles. It will also be able to tow targets and decoys, and will be compatible with current Chukar support systems and infrastructure. The Navy awarded Northrop Grumman a development contract in 2002, and the first BQM-74F was unveiled on August 22, 2005, with its first flight taking place seven days later at the naval air station in Point Mugu, California.\n\nIn the 1991 Persian Gulf War, BQM-74Cs were used as decoys during the initial air attacks into Iraq. The USAF Big Safari group was put in charge of the decoy effort, which was codenamed \"Project Scathe Mean\".\n\nThe Chukar drones that were available were usually launched from DC-130 director aircraft, and could also be launched from strike aircraft such as F-15s or F-16s. These launch resources were not available though, so the Navy found twelve ground launchers in their inventory that could be made serviceable, while RATO booster units were found stockpiled in Belgium. Each BQM-74C was fitted with a pair of corner reflectors to enhance its radar signature to imitate a manned aircraft.\n\nA 40-person team of specialists, obtained from disbanded ground-launched cruise missile units, was assembled in a few days and designated the \"4468th Tactical Reconnaissance Group\". The 4468th moved on a fast track, with trucks modified and obtained from a California commercial trucking firm, tool kits purchased from Sears, and field gear bought from war surplus stores. The teams were given quick training, equipped with 44 Navy BQM-74Cs, and sent to Saudi Arabia in two six-launcher teams in about two weeks, arriving near the Iraqi border on 15 October 1990. The northern team was sited to cover Baghdad and large military bases in that area, while the southern team was sited to cover Basra and Kuwait City.\n\nWhen the Gulf War air campaign began on the night of 17 January 1991, Iraq was hit by waves of F-117 Nighthawk stealth fighters and BGM-109 Tomahawk cruise missiles. A group of 38 BQM-74Cs were assigned to be launched as diversion for the second wave of attacks, with the launches generally in groups of three, and 37 were launched successfully in precisely timed waves. One group of three was intercepted by Iraqi aircraft, while all the others made it to target.\n\nThe drones flew over 500 kilometers (310 miles) at 630 km/h (390 mph), then began to circle Baghdad for up to 20 minutes. Iraqi air defense radars which probed for the drones were engaged by allied strike aircraft firing AGM-88 HARMs (High-speed Anti-Radiation Missiles). The Navy also launched ADM-141 TALDs (Tactical Air Launched Decoys) to contribute to the countermeasures blitz. Iraqi air defenses never recovered from this blow, and though large Allied aircraft losses had been predicted, the Iraqis only succeeded in shooting down 44 manned aircraft. After the war, the 4468th was disbanded, and one of the remaining BQM-74Cs was donated to the National Museum of the United States Air Force at Wright-Patterson AFB in Ohio, where it is now on display.\n\nOn 16 November 2013, a BQM-74E hit and damaged the , slightly injuring two sailors and making a hole in the superstructure just above the deck. The drone was supposed to turn away more than a mile from the cruiser during exercises to test the latest version of the Aegis Combat System, but instead carried straight on into the ship.\n\n\nDesignation sequence:\nBGM-71 – \nMIM-72 –\nUGM-73 –\nBQM-74 –\nBGM-75 – \nAGM-76 – \nFGM-77\n\n"}
{"id": "2080788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080788", "title": "Shalka Doctor", "text": "Shalka Doctor\n\nThe Shalka Doctor (or the REG Doctor) is the common fan name given to the character that appeared as an alternative incarnation of the Doctor in the flash-animated serial \"Scream of the Shalka\" in 2003 and the later short story \"The Feast of the Stone\" which were based on the British science fiction television series, \"Doctor Who\". He was voiced by the actor Richard E. Grant.\n\n\"Scream of the Shalka\" was designed to be an official continuation of \"Doctor Who\". At the time, there were no plans for a continuation of the television series and plans for another film were progressing very slowly. The Shalka Doctor was intended to be the ninth incarnation, as two lines in \"Scream of the Shalka\" imply: the Doctor mentions that Andy Warhol once wanted to paint \"all nine\" of him, and comments that a dead cat has used up its nine lives, like he has. The Shalka Doctor's claim to being the \"Ninth Doctor\" was also backed up by BBC press releases.\n\nHowever, the 2005 series was announced in September 2003—about two months before the webcast could meet its 13 November release date. This led to immediate controversy about the \"official\" status of the animated Ninth Doctor. Martin Trickey, executive producer of \"The Scream of the Shalka\", noted these concerns when he was interviewed at the time of \"Shalka\"'s release: \"The BBC said it was the ninth Doctor, so that's great. Is it part of the canon? I don't know. There's a big argument raging on the message board. I just hope people enjoy it. That's the main thing. Whether people choose to see it as the official Ninth Doctor or not is really up to them.\"\n\nAs of 2005, Christopher Eccleston was established as the definitive Ninth Doctor, with BBC press releases, advertisements, and episode material have firmly established Eccleston as \"the Ninth Doctor\".\n\nTo date the Shalka Doctor has appeared in four officially licensed \"Doctor Who\" products: the original webcast, the novelisation of the webcast by Paul Cornell which was released by BBC Books, the DVD release and the short story \"The Feast of the Stone\" by Cavan Scott and Mark Wright which has to date only been published on the BBC's \"Cult Vampire Magazine\" webpage.\n\nA further series was commissioned by the BBC. It was called \"Blood of the Robots\" and was being written by Simon Clark. Three episodes had been written before it was cancelled because of the imminent return of the live series.\n\nThe Doctor is visually modelled on Grant himself. Grant has described his interpretation of the Doctor as \"Sherlock Holmes in space.\" The Shalka Doctor has an aristocratic bearing. He is resentful of an unseen power directing his travels. He refuses, at first, to intervene in the Shalka invasion of the village of Lannet until the death of a homeless woman raises his ire, and is abrasive with the military characters who ally with him in the Shalka story. He seems haunted by some undisclosed past event, to the point where he actively opposes the notion of Alison becoming a companion. The android which contains the consciousness of the Master (voiced by Derek Jacobi) hints that the Doctor's previous companion may have met an untimely end.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080789", "title": "Nipissing, Ontario", "text": "Nipissing, Ontario\n\nNipissing is an incorporated (political) township in Parry Sound District in Central Ontario, Canada. It is on Lake Nipissing and is part of the Almaguin Highlands region. Nipissing was surveyed between 1874 and 1881, and was incorporated in 1888. Among the first settlers in the area were the Chapman and Beatty families. Nipissing Township annexed Gurd Township in 1970. The township also contains a community named Nipissing, which is located on the South River near Chapman's Landing, on the South Bay of Lake Nipissing. The township administrative offices are located in Nipissing.\n\nThe township includes the communities of Alsace, Christian Valley, Commanda, Hotham, Nipissing and Wade's Landing.\n\nThe founder of Nipissing, John Beattie (John Beatty) arrived by canoe from Eganville in 1862. He was looking for land suitable for settlement. To lay claim to the property, he made brush piles, and was granted free land by the Government of Ontario. Around 1869 James Chapman and his wife, Phoebe Edwards, built their first house and barn at the top of the chutes that later took their name. The family farmed the area and James carried the mail by canoe, dog team and later horse on a route stretching between the villages of Magnetawan and Mattawa. The Chapman Valley and Chapman Township near Magnetawan are named after the family. James and Phoebe are among the pioneers buried in the Nipissing village cemetery. The Chapman family donated the land to the municipal government, and the landing became a municipal boat launch, public dock and swimming hole for village children.\n\nOriginally supplies were brought into Nipissing from Pembroke by canoe over the Champlain Trail, as well as the South River. Nipissing village became the main route for shipping supplies. Around 1875 a colonization road was completed which connected tiny Nipissing village to Rosseau near Parry Sound in the south and this created road travel and another route for shipment of supplies. An Ontario Historical Plaque was erected at the Nipissing Township Museum by the province to commemorate the Rosseau-Nipissing Road's role in Ontario's heritage. However, in 1886 the Northern and Pacific Junction Railway connected Gravenhurst to Callander cutting out Nipissing village from its main route and the life of the village as a key port began to fade.\n\nNamed in 1879 after the lake, on whose south shore it is located. The community of Nipissing in the township, 25 km south of North Bay, was called \"Nipissingan\" in 1870, but its name was changed to Nipissing in 1881.\n\nThe township is served in its northern part by Ontario Highway 534 and Ontario Highway 654, which connect east to Ontario Highway 11 at the communities of Powassan and Callander respectively; Ontario Highway 534 also connects west to Restoule Provincial Park, and via Ontario Highway 524 to Ontario Highway 522. The township is served across its southern part by Ontario Highway 522, which connects east to Highway 11 at Trout Creek and west to Ontario Highway 69 at the community of Cranberry.\n\n\nOther map sources:\n"}
{"id": "2080799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080799", "title": "Lost Channel, Ontario", "text": "Lost Channel, Ontario\n\nLost Channel, Ontario can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2080802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080802", "title": "SYA", "text": "SYA\n\nSya is a locality in Sweden.\n\nSYA may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080807", "title": "Rachel McLish", "text": "Rachel McLish\n\nRachel Livia Elizondo McLish (born June 21, 1955) is an American female bodybuilding champion, actress, and author.\n\nMcLish was born as Raquel Livia Elizondo in 1955 in Harlingen, Texas, the second-youngest daughter born. Her father Rafael was of Mexican ancestry and her mother is named Raquel Elizondo. She attended the Harlingen High School, where she was a cheerleader and twice-named Cardinal’s Football Sweetheart. She graduated from high school in 1973. In 1978, she graduated from the University of Texas-Pan American with a degree in physiology and health and nutrition.\n\nWhile attending college, McLish worked at a health club in McAllen, Texas. When she graduated from college, she and the health club manager formed a partnership and founded the Sport Palace Association in Harlingen. With the success of the Sport Palace Association, she opened two more facilities in Corpus Christi and Brownsville in 1980. She was inspired to compete in bodybuilding thanks to Lisa Lyon and the club manager, Javier Gutierrez, who would show her magazines of female bodybuilders and encourage her to compete. She decided to compete because the opening of her new health club would coincide with a women's bodybuilding contest and bodybuilding would give her a platform to promote fitness to women.\n\nMcLish merits special historical significance in the sport of women’s bodybuilding. In 1980, she won the inaugural United States Championships, as well as beating Auby Paulick to win that year’s first-ever IFBB Ms. Olympia contest. After her 1980 Olympia win, no woman appeared on more magazine covers for the next five years. She got sponsored by Dynamics Health Equipment Manufacturing Corporation. These breakthrough victories, together with her visual appeal, brought women’s bodybuilding a further rush of media attention, which had been jump-started into action by Lisa Lyon.\n\nIn a competitive career that spanned only four years, McLish proved a resilient force, never placing lower than third in any contest she entered. In 1981, she lost her Ms. Olympia title to Kike Elomaa, because her physique was not as defined as usual. At the 1982 Ms. Olympia, she beat Carla Dunlap to reclaim her title. Both Paulick and Dunlap brought more muscle than McLish in those respective contests, but neither could match McLish's overall appeal. Dunlap defeated her in the 1983 Caesar's World Cup contest. She finished a controversial second behind Cory Everson in the 1984 Ms. Olympia. As quoted by several magazines covering the event, some competitors expressed surprise at McLish's high placement because she didn't carry the muscle mass carried by many of the top women. Though Dunlap, who finished fifth, was the defending Ms. Olympia, the cover of the March 1985 Strength Training for Beauty's March 1985 cover declared \"Cory dethrones Rachel.\"\n\nAfter finishing second at the 1984 IFBB Ms. Olympia, McLish retired from competitive bodybuilding.\n\nMcLish was the first winner of the Ms. Olympia title. She is one of bodybuilding’s most recognizable personalities. In January 1999, she was inducted into the IFBB Hall of Fame.\n\n\nMcLish is a Christian and describes herself as a compassionate conservative. She has a sister named Sandra Lopez, and Leah Elizondo Yakub, M.D., Ph.D. is her niece. While attending Pan American University, she met John P. McLish, whom she married on February 3, 1979. They would later divorce. In 1990, she married film producer Ron Samuels. She and her husband lived in Rancho Mirage, California in 1996. In 2008, she sold her house for $3 million to Boston Red Sox player Coco Crisp.\n\nMcLish was featured in the 1985 documentary \"\" which focused on her participation in the 1983 Caesar’s World Cup. She also acted in the movies \"Getting Physical\" (1984), \"\" (1992) and \"Raven Hawk\" (1996). These involved her acting the part of a physically strong woman. She was one of the first women to take such a role. She was also a star in Herb Alpert's 'Red Hot' music video. She co-starred alongside Arnold Schwarzenegger in the fitness instructional video Shape Up (1982).\n\nMcLish has authored two books on weight training for women that made the \"New York Times\" bestseller list – \"Flex Appeal, by Rachel\", and \"Perfect Parts\". She is now working on two books that focus on fitness and nutrition.\n\n| colspan = 3 align = center | Ms. Olympia\n"}
{"id": "2080808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080808", "title": "Representation of the People Act 1969", "text": "Representation of the People Act 1969\n\nThe Representation of the People Act 1969 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. This statute is sometimes known as the Sixth Reform Act. The 1970 United Kingdom general election (18 June) is the first in which this Act had effect.\n\nIt extended suffrage to 18- to 20-year-olds. Previously, only those 21 or over were permitted to vote. Votes were extended to undergraduate students in their university town following an appeal to the High Court led for the National Union of Students by the Junior Common Room, the official student body of Churchill College, Cambridge. Significantly, it did not extend the right to stand as a candidate for election to Parliament to under-21s. The age of candidacy for elections in the United Kingdom was lowered from 21 to 18 in 2006, with the passing of the Electoral Administration Act 2006.\n\nIt abolished plural voting in local government.\n\nRepresentation of the People Act\n"}
{"id": "2080825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080825", "title": "The Legend of Hell House", "text": "The Legend of Hell House\n\nThe Legend of Hell House is a 1973 British supernatural horror film directed by John Hough and based on the novel \"Hell House\" by Richard Matheson, who also wrote the screenplay. The film stars Pamela Franklin, Roddy McDowall, Clive Revill, and Gayle Hunnicutt as a group of researchers who spend a week in a purportedly haunted English mansion in which previous investigators were killed.\n\nThe physicist Dr. Lionel Barrett is enlisted by eccentric millionaire Mr. Deutsch to make an investigation into \"survival after death\" in \"the one place where it has yet to be refuted\". This is Belasco House, the \"Mount Everest of haunted houses\", originally owned by the notorious \"Roaring Giant\" Emeric Belasco, a six-foot-five perverted millionaire and supposed murderer, who disappeared soon after a massacre at his home. The house is believed to be haunted by numerous spirits, the victims of Belasco's twisted and sadistic desires.\n\nAccompanying Barrett are his wife, Ann, as well as two mediums: mental medium and spiritualist minister Florence Tanner and physical medium Benjamin Franklin \"Ben\" Fischer, who is the only survivor of an investigation conducted 20 years before.\n\nThe group arrive to begin their investigation a week before Christmas Eve, and the rationalist Barrett is rudely skeptical of Florence's belief in \"surviving personalities\", spirits which haunt the physical world, and he asserts that there is nothing but unfocused electromagnetic energy in the house. Barrett brings a machine he has developed, which he believes will rid the house of this energy.\n\nThough not a physical medium, Florence begins to manifest physical phenomena inside the house. When, after a quarrel with Tanner, Barrett is attacked by invisible forces, he suspects that Florence may be using the house's energy against him. Meanwhile, Fischer remains aloof, with his mind closed to the house's influence, and is only there to collect the generous paycheck.\n\nAnn Barrett is subjected to erotic visions late at night, which seem linked to her lackluster sex life. She goes downstairs and, in an apparent trance, disrobes and demands sex from Fischer. He strikes her, snapping her out of the trance, and she returns to herself, horrified and ashamed. A second incident occurs a day or so later; this time, she is awake but uninhibited due to alcohol. Her husband arrives a moment later to witness her advances to Fischer. He is resentful, and spurns Fischer's warnings that the house is affecting Ann, claiming that \"Mr. Deutsch is wasting one-third of his money!\" Stricken by the accusation, Fischer drops his psychic shields, but he is immediately attacked.\n\nFlorence is convinced that one of the \"surviving personalities\" is Daniel, Belasco's tormented son, and she is determined to prove it at all costs. She finds a human skeleton chained behind a wall. Believing it to be Daniel, Florence and Fischer bury the body outside the house and Florence performs a funeral. Nevertheless, Daniel's \"personality\" continues to haunt Florence; she is scratched violently by a possessed cat. Barrett suspects that Florence is mutilating herself. In an attempt to put Daniel to rest, Florence gives herself to the entity sexually, but the entity brutalizes her and possesses her body.\n\nBarrett's machine is assembled. Possessed by the malevolent spirit, Florence attempts to destroy it, thinking that it will harm the spirits in the house, but she is prevented from doing serious damage. She enters the chapel, \"the unholy heart\" of the house, in an attempt to warn the spirits, but she is crushed by a falling crucifix. As she dies, she leaves a symbol written in her own blood. Barrett activates his machine, which seems to be effective. Fischer wanders the house afterwards, attempting to sense psychic energy; in astonishment, he declares the place \"completely clear!\" But violent psychic activity soon resumes, and Barrett is killed.\n\nFischer decides to confront the house, and Ann accompanies him despite her misgivings. Deciphering Florence's dying clue, Fischer deduces that Belasco is the sole entity haunting the house, masquerading as many. He taunts Belasco, declaring him a \"son of a whore\", and that he was no \"roaring giant\", but instead more likely a \"funny little dried-up bastard\" who fooled everyone about his alleged height. Even as objects begin to hurl themselves at Fischer, he continues to defy the entity, challenging, \"What size WERE you? Five foot two? One? I know! I'll bet you weren't even five foot tall!\" At that, all becomes still. Fischer then concentrates, and a stained-glass partition in the chapel shatters, revealing a hidden door.\n\nFischer and Ann discover a lead-lined room, containing Belasco's preserved body seated in a chair. Pulling out a pocket knife, Fischer rips open Belasco's trouser leg, discovering his final secret: a pair of prosthetic legs. Fischer realises that Belasco had had his own stunted legs amputated, and that he had used the prosthetics with which they were replaced in a grotesque attempt to appear imposing. Belasco also had the specially built room lined with lead, presaging the discovery of the electromagnetic nature of life after death.\n\nWith the room now open, Fischer activates Barrett's machine a second time, and he and Ann leave the house, hoping that Barrett and Florence will guide Belasco to the afterlife without fear.\n\n\nProduction began on 23 October 1972. \"The Legend of Hell House\" is one of only two productions of James H. Nicholson after his departure from American International Pictures — a company he had run, along with Samuel Z. Arkoff, since 1954. Nicholson died of a brain tumour in December 1972, before the film's release in June 1973. Nicholson's company, Academy Pictures Corporation, also released \"Dirty Mary, Crazy Larry\" through Twentieth Century Fox in 1974.\n\nMatheson's screenplay drastically reduced some of the more extreme elements of the novel, particularly the sexuality.\n\nThe external shots of the house were filmed at Wykehurst Park, West Sussex. Mr. Deutsch's mansion in the opening sequence is Blenheim Palace in Woodstock, Oxfordshire. The interior shot of the long room is the palace's library.\n\nThe role of Belasco was played by an uncredited Michael Gough. His part consisted of a couple of recorded lines and an on-camera appearance as an embalmed corpse seated upright in a chair.\n\nThe plot of both this film and the book on which it is based, both written by Richard Matheson, have several details in common with Shirley Jackson’s 1959 novel \"The Haunting of Hill House\" (and subsequent 1963 movie adaptation \"The Haunting\") in which a party of four (some psychic, some skeptical, some British, some Americans) stay in an extremely haunted Gothic mansion house with a terrible history, for the purposes of scientific study, and all are plagued by unseen terrors. It is to both of the films’ credit that they only partially resemble each other.\n\nThe film features a score with an electronic music bassline (with occasional woodwind and brass stabs). The score and electronic sound effects were created by Delia Derbyshire and Brian Hodgson, recorded at Hodgson's Electrophon studio in London. The soundtrack remains unavailable commercially.\n\nCritical response to \"The Legend of Hell House\" varied. In 1976, Roger Ebert wrote in his review of \"Burnt Offerings,\" another movie about a haunted house, that \"\"The Legend of Hell House\" brought out the fun in this sort of material very well.\" In his \"2002 Movie & Video Guide\", Leonard Maltin gave the film three of four stars and called it \"Not the usual ghost story, and certain to curl a few hairs.\" The \"Time Out\" Company called the film disappointing, but it approved of Pamela Franklin's performance. \"TV Guide\" stated that \"While director John Hough does a fine job with the things-that-go-bump-in-the-night aspects of the material, he fails to breathe any life into Richard Matheson's woefully underdeveloped screenplay.\"\n\n\"The Legend of Hell House\" was released on DVD by 20th Century Fox in 2001. The DVD included the theatrical trailer as a special feature.\n\nIn August 2014, the Shout! Factory label Scream Factory released the film on Blu-ray. The release included a 30-minute interview with director John Hough, a commentary track by actress Pamela Franklin, stills gallery, original theatrical trailer, radio ads and reversible cover art featuring the theatrical artwork and customized artwork for the Blu-ray release.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080826", "title": "Farhan Akhtar", "text": "Farhan Akhtar\n\nFarhan Akhtar (born 9 January 1974) is an Indian film actor, director, screenwriter, playback singer, producer, and television host. Born in Mumbai to screenwriters Javed Akhtar and Honey Irani, he grew up under the influence of the Hindi film industry. He began his career in Bollywood by working as an assistant director in \"Lamhe\" (1991) and \"Himalay Putra\" (1997).\n\nAkhtar, after establishing a production company named Excel Entertainment along with Ritesh Sidhwani, made his directorial debut with \"Dil Chahta Hai\" (2001) and received critical acclaim for portraying modern youth. The film also won a National award. Following it, he made the cult war film \"Lakshya\" (2004) and had his Hollywood debut through the soundtrack of \"Bride and Prejudice\" (2004), for which he wrote the lyrics. He went on to make the commercially successful \"Don\" (2006). He directed a short film titled \"Positive\" (2007), to spread awareness on HIV-AIDS.\n\nAlthough he initially started his acting career with \"The Fakir of Venice\", his official debut was with \"Rock On!!\" (2008), for which he won a second National Award for Best Feature Film in Hindi as producer, and indulged in further experimentation before he wrote the script, produced and acted for the critical and commercial success \"Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara\" (2011), which won him four Filmfare Awards, including Best Supporting Actor. In the same year, he directed a sequel to \"Don\" titled \"Don 2\" (2011), which remains his highest-grossing film till date. He achieved further success by portraying Milkha Singh in the 2013 film \"Bhaag Milkha Bhaag\", earning him the Filmfare Award for Best Actor. In 2016, Akhtar received praise for starring in the crime thriller \"Wazir\" and the comedy drama \"Dil Dhadakne Do\".\n\nFarhan Akhtar was born to screenwriters Javed Akhtar and Honey Irani in Bombay (present-day Mumbai). His sister is writer–director Zoya Akhtar. His parents divorced during his early days, and his father married Shabana Azmi in 1984. Akhtar has termed his parents the \"harshest\" critics in his career, and also considered Robert De Niro as an \"inspiration\" in the film industry. Akhtar is of Zoroastrian Irani origin, from his mother's side. Akhtar grew up in an agnostic environment and along with his sister Zoya and father Javed Akhtar; he does not believe in any religion.\n\nHe is the grandson of Urdu poet Jan Nisar Akhtar and great-grandson of poet Muztar Khairabadi. Muztar Khairabadi was grandson of Fazl-e-Haq Khairabadi, who was a scholar of Islamic studies and theology, notably edited the first diwan of Mirza Ghalib on his request, and later became an important figure during the Indian Rebellion of 1857 in his native Khairabad.\n\n. He is also the cousin of Farah Khan and Sajid Khan. He studied at Maneckji Cooper school in Mumbai, and went on to study for a law degree from the HR College, also in Mumbai.\n\nHe married Adhuna Bhabani in 2000, after being in a relationship with her for 3 years. They first met during the filming of his directorial debut \"Dil Chahta Hai\" in 2001, which also marked Adhuna's debut as a Bollywood hairstylist. The couple have two daughters named Shakya and Akira. On 21st January 2016, the couple officially announced their separation after 16 years of marriage.\n\nAkhtar has been in a relationship with Indian VJ Shibani Dandekar since 2018.\n\nAkhtar worked as an apprentice in film distribution and direction for Yash Chopra's \"Lamhe\" (1991) when he was 17 years old and later shifted to an advertisement production house named \"Script Shop\" to spend an approximate 3 years there. He also assisted Pankaj Parashar as a director in \"Himalay Putra\" (1997) before launching himself into direction and writing.\n\nAkhtar made his writing and directorial debut with the critically acclaimed film \"Dil Chahta Hai\" (2001), produced by Excel Entertainment, a production company he established along with Ritesh Sidhwani in 1999. It was shot over a period of three months in Sydney, Goa and Mumbai. Due to its acclaim, he called it a \"turning point\" in his career. The film dealt with the lives of westernised urban youth in Mumbai. Akhtar had written the script based on his trips to Goa and New York, as well as a narration of a story outline by a friend of his. It received international critical acclaim and attained an iconic status, with Akhtar receiving credit for starting a \"new wave\" in Indian cinema. Critic Ziya Us Salam praised Akhtar's direction and commented for \"The Hindu\": \"In his maiden venture, Javed Akhtar's son shows enough glimpses of his pedigree to indicate that promise will attain fulfilment sooner than later.\" Various award shows conferred accolades on the film and nominated it for several categories. The year's National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Hindi for 2002 was won by the film. It was also screened at the International Film Festival of India, the Palm Springs International Film Festival, and the Austin Film Festival. In the same year, he and his sister Zoya Akhtar assisted their father in writing the English lyrics of a song in \"Lagaan\", for which the soundtrack was scored by A. R. Rahman.\n\nAkhtar's next project was \"Lakshya\" (2004), a film about an aimless youngster finally setting a goal for himself, starring Hrithik Roshan and Preity Zinta. It was shot in Ladakh, Dehra Dun and Mumbai, and marked the beginning of the collaborations between Akhtar and Hrithik. He had to research the army before writing the script and directing the venture. The theme of the film, as stated by Akhtar, was about \"finding oneself\". He also believed that if the same characters and situation were set elsewhere, the main core of the story would remain the same as the film was not about war, as it had been reported. Post-release, the film failed to make a mark at the box office and became a commercial failure. Parul Gupta of \"The Times of India\" gave it a negative review and explained that \"It's hard to reconcile to such triviality when it comes from Farhan Akhtar, considered the ultimate symbol of cool in Hindi filmdom.\" On the contrary, Manish Gajjar from \"BBC\" wrote, in his positive review: \"Young Farhan Akhtar, proves yet again that he is one of the finest directors Bollywood has to date. He has paid full attention to the script and the technical aspects, giving rise to a polished product\".\n\nMeanwhile, Akhtar wrote the English lyrics of Gurinder Chadha's Hollywood film \"Bride and Prejudice\" (2004), along with his sister, Zoya Akhtar, after being recommended by his father. The music for the film was composed by Anu Malik and consisted of a mixture of \"Hindi songs\", \"West side story\", \"Fiddler on the Roof\" and \"Grease\".\n\nIn 2006, Akhtar directed, produced and wrote the screenplay of \"Don\" starring Shah Rukh Khan in the title role, a remake of \"1978 film Don\", starring Amitabh Bachchan. It marked his first project holding the status of a remake. The character of Don became iconic and popular. Despite this, he noted that he did not mean to be a \"torchbearer of the remake brigade\" and did not feel comfortable with being credited for the trend of remakes in the film industry. The film released on 20 October 2006 and was declared a \"hit\" at the box office, grossing around worldwide. It became widely known for its script lines. However, critics predominantly condemned Akhtar's direction and screenplay. Taran Adarsh of Bollywood Hungama said Akhtar had \"climbed the ladder as far as craftsmanship is concerned [every frame is well decorated and makes a spellbinding impact] but despite a readymade classic at his disposal, the storyteller just doesn't get it right this time.\"\n\nIn 2007, Akhtar produced the film \"Honeymoon Travels Pvt. Ltd.\", directed by debutant Reema Kagti and starring Abhay Deol, Minissha Lamba, Shabana Azmi and Boman Irani. The music for the film was composed by Vishal-Shekhar, marking their first collaboration with him. Akhtar was supposed to make his acting debut with the project, but he had to be replaced by Abhay Deol as he was involved with \"Don\". The film was financed and funded by Exim Bank. This was the first time Excel Entertainment collaborated with a different director as all their previous projects had been involving Farhan as a director. The story of the film revolved around six couples who went to Goa on a honeymoon. The film opened up on 23 February and received mixed reviews from critics, and ended up with an \"average\" box office result.\n\nIn the same year, Akhtar directed \"Positive\", a film produced by Shernaz Italia and Frenzy Kodaiji, starring Boman Irani and Shabana Azmi. It was a short film running for 12 minutes. Dealing with a family's attitude towards a person suffering from HIV-AIDS, the film was shot in Mumbai and aimed at creating awareness about the problem. It also introduced Arjun Mathur in the film industry. Speaking about the purpose of the project, Akhtar stated that \"Just as a social stigma, many people believe that an HIV patient should be isolated. They also have certain misconceptions about dealing with the disease. And since India has a lot of joint families, it becomes very important for them to understand the value of support to the person who has acquired this disease. This is exactly what Positive talks about.\" The film had its background score composed by Ram Sampath but had no soundtrack. It was a part of the \"AIDS JaaGo\" (\"AIDS Awake\"), a series of four short films, directed by Mira Nair, Santosh Sivan, Vishal Bhardwaj and himself, in a joint initiative of Mira Nair's Mirabai Films, voluntary organisations Avahan and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.\n\nAkhtar's first project in 2011 was the drama thriller \"Game\", directed by Abhinay Deo. The lead cast consisted of Abhishek Bachchan, Kangana Ranaut, Boman Irani and Jimmy Shergill. He wrote the script and produced the venture. The film received highly negative reviews after release, with critics panning almost all the aspects of it. At the box office, it had a poor opening, and later resulted in giving losses for the distributors, due to a heavily negative word-of-mouth. It was described as a \"washout\" by trade analysts.\n\nLater that year, Akhtar wrote, produced and directed \"Don 2\", a sequel to his 2006 \"Don\". It marked his return to direction after a gap of nearly 5 years. His decision of making a sequel was explained by him in an interview: \"I am wary of sequels having to be made. With \"Don 2\" I could finally make an action thriller the way I wanted to. Good story, classic action and simple plot which has one goal and work towards it effectively and dramatically.\" The film was a major success in India and went on to become the year's highest-grossing Bollywood production abroad with a worldwide gross of . It received mixed to positive reviews from critics, with Khalid Mohammed stating: \"Throughout, you can't help feeling that Farhan Akhtar could have made three far more valuable films out of the budget squandered on this thriller where cars are smashed as if they were tea cups.\"\n\nNext year, Akhtar produced and wrote the script of the neo-noir thriller \"\". His production work was followed by the comedy films: \"Fukrey\" (2013) and \"Bangistan\" (2015), \"Baar Baar Dekho\" (2016), \"Raees\" and \"Fukrey Returns\" (both in 2017).\n\nIn 2008, Akhtar made his acting and singing debut in a musical film titled \"Rock On!!\", for which he wrote the script and also produced. The film was directed by Abhishek Kapoor. Prachi Desai, Arjun Rampal and Purab Kohli co-starred along with him. As he had been learning guitar ever since the start of his directing career, he had been well-versed with it and used it for the film. The role played by him was that of Aditya, lead singer of the rock band \"Magik\". He sang five songs for the soundtrack album. The film was acclaimed by critics and received positive reviews upon release. Gaurav Malani of \"The Economic Times\" wrote that the film seemed to be \"clearly designed by Farhan Akhar as his own acting debut and he doesn't let himself down. Lending voice to all his songs helps him to get into his character with effortless ease. One could certainly overlook the lisp in his dialogue delivery.\" Manish Gajjar of \"BBC\" wrote of his performance: \"Director-turned-actor, Farhan Aktar surprises all with his superb, flawless performance, transforming from a hippy-style lead-singer to a subdued, dismal workaholic banker.\" Akhtar received several accolades for his debut performance. The film, in addition won the National Award for Best Feature Film in Hindi. However, it did not create an impact at the box office and turned out to be an \"average\" grosser.\n\nAfter refusing an offer to sing a song for A. R. Rahman's album \"Blue\", Akhtar acted in, and produced his sister Zoya's directorial and written debut \"Luck By Chance\", which had Hrithik Roshan and Konkona Sen Sharma in the lead roles. He was cast in the film after being deemed as a \"perfect choice\" for it. The story of the film revolved around a struggling actor who arrives in Mumbai to become a film star. It was released on 30 January 2009. Though failing to do well at the box office and being declared a \"flop\", the film received generally positive reviews from critics. Neil Genzlinger from \"The New York Times\" said: \"It is Mr. Akhtar whose understated performance holds together this far-ranging, cameo-filled film. He manages to remain sympathetic even while wreaking romantic havoc.\" Rajeev Masand noted: \"Farhan Akhtar delivers a simple-enough likeable performance that is just what the film required — no showy flourishes, no loud outbursts, just a straight off spontaneous act that works like a dream.\"\n\nFollowing \"Luck By Chance\", Akhtar acted in a film titled \"The Fakir of Venice\", which was initially scheduled to release before \"Rock on!!\" and was supposed to be his acting debut. Due to several delays, it was premiered at the 2009 Indian Film Festival of Los Angeles. It was written and directed by Anand Surapur, and accepted by Akhtar after he described its script as \"very powerful\", while emphasising that it \"touches upon weaknesses and confusions in all human beings.\" Before release, it premiered at the Indian Film Festival of Los Angeles, and the Venice Film Festival at the ArcLight Hollywood. Kirk Honeycutt of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" praised the film and felt that \"Akhtar, a producer, director and writer making his film debut here as an actor, is talented and handsome enough – and with looks that could translate into any number of ethnicities – to have a huge career ahead of him.\" The film was released theatrically in India on 8 February 2019.\n\nAkhtar acted in, and produced his next film \"Karthik Calling Karthik\" (2010), a psychological thriller directed by Vijay Lalwani. He played Karthik, an introvert character, starring alongside Deepika Padukone for the first time. Preparation for the role involved working on the Rubik's Cube, which he learnt from the director. The film received mixed reviews and praise for Akhtar's acting from critics, with Sukanya Verma highlighting that \"He conveys the anxiety, simplicity and frailty of Karthik even when the script isn't doing it for him. Perhaps it's his innate filmmaker instinct.\" The film had a good opening at the box office, as it was targeted towards the youth of the multiplexes. However, it failed to continue on its business and went on to become a \"below average\" grosser.\n\nAkhtar produced and appeared as one of the three leads in his sister, Zoya Akhtar's coming-of-age film \"Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara\" along with Hrithik Roshan and Abhay Deol, Katrina Kaif and Kalki Koechlin, starring opposite Ariadna Cabrol. He was also credited as the scriptwriter for the film. He was the first actor to be cast in the film, and described his role as a \"fun character\" and a \"guy who for the longest time takes nothing seriously.\" His real life father, Javed Akhtar wrote poetry for the film, which he performs as a voice-over. His performance was favourably received by critics, with Shaikh Ayaz of Rediff.com highlighting his lines as \"gentle, they won't make you ROFL; they are more like tender dig in the ribs.\" Kaveree Bamzai of \"India Today\" called his acting \"sensitive, soulful\", further saying that he was \"perfectly capable of reading out his father's poetry.\" The film made worldwide and was declared a commercial success at the box office. It also became one of the highest grossing Bollywood films overseas, earning around US$7.25 million. It won two National Awards, the Best Choreography and the Best Audiography.\n\nFollowing \"Don 2\", His next, a biopic on Indian athlete Milkha Singh, popularly known as ‘the Flying Sikh’, was entitled ’Bhaag Milkha Bhaag.’ He essayed the role with such integrity that it set the standard for other actors considering to play titular protagonists in biopics. Deservingly, Farhan swept all awards that year for ‘Best Actor’ as did the film for ‘Best Film’. It also claimed the National award for ‘Best Popular Film providing Wholesome Entertainment.’. He also had to prepare his looks to depict a 17-year-old army recruit and endure an on-the-spot preparation at an army cantonment. In 2014, Akhtar acted for the romantic comedy \"Shaadi Ke Side Effects\" alongside Vidya Balan, a film directed by Saket Chaudhary and produced by Pritish Nandy. It was a sequel to \"Pyaar Ke Side Effects\" (2006).\n\nNext year, Akhtar featured in the supporting role in his sister Zoya Akhtar's \"Dil Dhadakne Do\", an ensemble comedy-drama starring Anil Kapoor, Shefali Shah, Priyanka Chopra, Ranveer Singh and Anushka Sharma.\n\nIn 2016, Akhtar played the lead role of an Anti Terrorist Squad officer in Bejoy Nambiar's \"Wazir\". It was his first action role as an actor, and for which he went through intense physical training and put on eight kilograms of weight. Raja Sen in his review called him \"pretty good [..] early on in the film, but his performance starts to unravel once the film hits hysterical gear and he is required to do more than frown.\" Akhtar also sang the duet \"Atrangi yaari\" with Amitabh Bachchan for \"Wazir\". The film was a box-office success. Akhtar's final release of the year was the rock musical drama \"Rock On 2\", a sequel to the 2008 critically acclaimed \"Rock On!!\". He reprised his role of Aditya Shroff, the lead singer of his band. The film was Akhtar's attempt to bring northeast India into popular culture.\n\nIn 2017, Akhtar essayed the role of a Dawood Ibrahim-alike mafia don Maqsood in \"Daddy\", co-starring Arjun Rampal. His next release was the ensemble drama \"Lucknow Central\", co-starring Diana Penty, Gippy Grewal and Deepak Dobriyal. The film was about a prison escape drama planned by a group of prisoners who also form a music band and was inspired by a real incident. \"Lucknow Central\" was released on 15 September 2017 and met with mixed reviews and financial failure.\n\nHis most recent release ‘The Sky Is Pink’ premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival and received a 15 minute standing ovation from the audience at the Roy Thomson Hall. He is also going through boxing training for \"Toofan\", directed by Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra.\n\nAkhtar appeared as one of the nine judges in the beauty pageant Femina Miss India (2002). He was the judge on the first season of the dance-reality show \"Nach Baliye\" (2005). He hosted a TV show on NDTV Imagine, called \"Oye! It's Friday!\" in the same year. He has endorsed several brands as a part of his career, especially after the release of \"Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara\". These include Hindustan Unilever's water purifier product titled Pureit, Chivas Regal, Britannia Nutri Choice Biscuits, IndusInd Bank, Dulux Paint and Titan Industries.\n\nMen Against Rape and Discrimination or MARD is a social campaign launched by Akhtar. The idea came to the mind of Akhtar when in August 2012, Pallavi Purkayastha, a lawyer by profession, was sexually assaulted by her watchman and then killed by him.\n\nSongs from the album:-\nRearview Mirror,\nSeagull,\nSolitary Childhood,\nMy Friend Who Was,\nWhy Couldn't It Be Me?,\nIf Love Isn't Enough,\nPain Or Pleasure,\nBird On A Wire ,\nBe All You Can Be,\nLet's Be Friends Again,\nDon't Say It's The End,\nRearview Mirror- Ash Howes Mix,\nSeagull- Ash Howes Mix.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080828", "title": "Children Playing Before a Statue of Hercules", "text": "Children Playing Before a Statue of Hercules\n\nChildren Playing Before a Statue of Hercules is a 2005 anthology of short stories edited by David Sedaris.\n\nSedaris published this book in order to support 826NYC, a nonprofit writing and tutoring center in Brooklyn, New York. All of his proceeds, after permission expenses, from \"Children Playing Before a Statue of Hercules\" will benefit this organization designed to help students ages six to eighteen develop their writing skills through free writing workshops, publishing projects, and one-on-one help with homework and English-language learning. In the book's epilogue, Sarah Vowell describes 826NYC's work.\n\nThe book's title references by Adriaen van der Werff.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080829", "title": "Elton John's Greatest Hits Vol. 3", "text": "Elton John's Greatest Hits Vol. 3\n\nElton John’s Greatest Hits Volume III is the twenty-seventh album release for Elton John. Released in 1987, 10 years after \"Elton John's Greatest Hits Volume II\", the compilation album features his greatest hits from 1979–1986 and was made available only in the United States and Canada. All of the songs featured had previously been released on a previous album.\n\nThe album was initially released under Geffen Records after John returned to his US label. Geffen was later bought out by MCA Records in 1990. John had just left MCA after the label released \"Greatest Hits Vol. 2\".\n\nOne-third of the album is composed of songs from \"Too Low for Zero\", John’s 1983 album that received the most critical and commercial acclaim for the early 1980s, including the songs \"I Guess That's Why They Call It the Blues\" and \"I'm Still Standing\". Some of the artist’s less successful songs were also included on the tracking because they had been released in the past year. The album reached gold status by February in 1989, platinum in November 1991, and achieved 2x platinum in October 1995 by the RIAA.\n\nIn 1992, two years after MCA purchased Geffen, \"Greatest Hits Volume III\" was removed from the artist’s repertoire and replaced with the famed \"Greatest Hits 1976-1986\" album, and due to copyright issues, two tracks from \"Greatest Hits Volume II\", \"Don't Go Breaking My Heart\" and \"Sorry Seems to Be the Hardest Word\" were moved to \"Greatest Hits 1976-1986\" and replaced with \"Tiny Dancer\" and \"I Feel Like a Bullet (In the Gun of Robert Ford)\".\n\n\"I Guess That's Why They Call It the Blues\"\nOriginally featured on Too Low for Zero, Bernie Taupin wrote the song for his wife, Toni Russo. The album itself was a turning point in Elton John’s relationship with Taupin, as the singer/songwriter duo had taken a break from 1977 to 1979, a time in which Taupin worked with other artists. Too Low for Zero was when the two reunited and created the album together.\n\n\"Mama Can't Buy You Love\"\nOriginally featured on the EP \"The Thom Bell Sessions\" in 1979, it was one of three of John’s Number One R&B records. The artist had considered the producer for the album, Thom Bell, to be an idol of his and looks back fondly on that era of his career. The song was written by LeRoy Bell and Casey James of Bell and James.\n\n\"Little Jeannie\"\nIncluded originally on 21 at 33, it was written by Gary Osborne. This album was composed half and half of songs from Osborne and Taupin, marking the beginning of John and Taupin’s break. 21 at 33 contained roughly half and half songs from the two lyricists. For this particular song, the melody was written before the lyrics.\n\n\"Sad Songs (Say So Much)\"\nFrom \"Breaking Hearts\", was written by Bernie Taupin and even with its upbeat rhythm is about losing someone and was meant to help those grieving by listening to classic sad songs.\n\n\"I'm Still Standing\"\nAlso written by Bernie Taupin off of \"Too Low for Zero\", the song is aimed at a former lover. Contrary to popular belief of it being a statement of John’s resilience in the face of adversity for his flamboyant and non-traditional flair, Taupin actually wrote the song with a specific ex-lover in mind.\n\n\"Empty Garden (Hey Hey Johnny)\"\nOff of the \"Jump Up!\" album, the song was written as a tribute to the late John Lennon. The lyrics were first written by Taupin and John later composed the music. John has been quoted saying that he felt a particular connection to the song, being that he had been good friends with Lennon and is even the Godfather of Lennon’s younger son, Sean.\n\n\"Heartache All Over the World\"\nThe first song completed for \"Leather Jackets\", it was written by Bernie Taupin. John sings about the appeals of \"the opposite sex\". John later reported feeling dishonest about the track as he came out as openly gay in 1988, two years after the song was released.\n\n\"Too Low for Zero\"\nFirst appearing on the album of the same name, the lyrics were written by Bernie Taupin and music composed by Elton John. The song has a catchy energy despite its darker lyrics.\n\n\"Kiss the Bride\"\nReleased initially as a single and then on the album \"Too Low For Zero\", it features lyrics by Bernie Taupin and music by Elton John. The song is upbeat and is reported to be a popular song choice to play at weddings.\n\n\"Blue Eyes\"\nFrom John’s \"Jump Up!\" album, the lyrics to the song were written by Gary Osborne to which John wrote the music for. The song was nominated for a Grammy in 1983 for Best Male Vocal Pop Performance.\n\n\"Nikita\"\nOriginally appearing on \"Ice on Fire\", John sings of being in love with an East German Border guard during the Cold War, but their love is forbidden because John is unable to enter the country. Taupin wrote the lyrics and it features George Michael and Nik Kershaw on backup vocals.\n\n\"Wrap Her Up\"\nAlso from \"Ice on Fire\", the song again features George Michael and was originally released as a single and is famous for its name dropping of multiple famous women. John and Taupin collaborated with Charlie Morgan, Paul Westwood, and Fred Mandal. It is by far the longest song featured on the album at 6:04.\n\nIn 1992, this album was deleted and replaced with \"Greatest Hits 1976–1986\". MCA had taken over Geffen Records, and control of copyrights had shifted such that 1977's \"Greatest Hits Volume II\" could no longer be presented as before. Two songs from it, \"Don't Go Breaking My Heart\" and \"Sorry Seems to Be the Hardest Word\", were shifted to the new third volume, which also now included 1984's \"Who Wears These Shoes?\". To make room for these additions, the 1986 non-hit \"Heartache All Over the World\" and 1983's album-only track \"Too Low for Zero\" were eliminated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080830", "title": "Makobo Modjadji", "text": "Makobo Modjadji\n\nMakobo Modjadji VI (Makobo Constance Modjadji; 1978 – 12 June 2005) was the sixth in a line of the Balobedu tribe's Rain Queens. It is believed that Makobo Modjadji had the ability to control the clouds and rivers. Makobo was crowned on 16 April 2003 at the age of 25 after the death of her predecessor and grandmother, Queen Mokope Modjadji. This made her the youngest Queen in the history of the Balobedu tribe.\n\nMakobo was the daughter of Princess Makheala, and was the only Rain Queen to be formally educated. She was crowned Rain Queen in 2003, two years after the death of her mother, Makheala, and the previous Rain Queen, her grandmother Mokope Modjadji. Her mother, the designated successor, had died two days before Mokope Modjadji had died, therefore Makobo was selected as the next Rain Queen. On the day of the coronation, a slight drizzle fell, which was interpreted as a good omen. The coronation was an elaborate ceremony, but it is believed that Makobo accepted the crown reluctantly.\n\nAlthough respected for her abilities and lineage, Makobo was seen as too modern to be the next Rain Queen, which may have been why there was such a long delay before she was crowned. Custom dictated that rain queens live reclusive lives, hidden in the royal kraal with the \"royal wives\". Makobo Modjadji, however, liked to wear jeans and T-shirts, visit nearby discos, watch soap operas and chat on her cell phone.\n\nModjadji also had a boyfriend, David Mogale, who was believed to have fathered her second child. He is the former municipal manager of Greater Letaba Local Municipality. He is also rumoured to have moved into the Royal Compound to live with her. This caused great controversy with the Royal Council, as the Rain Queen is only ever supposed to mate with nobles who the Royal Council themselves chose. Therefore, Mogale was banned from the village, and the Rain Queen's two children have never been recognised by the Council.\n\nOn 10 June 2005 Makobo was admitted to the Polokwane Medi-Clinic with a then-undisclosed illness; she died two days later at the age of 27.\n\nThere is a lot of controversy surrounding the late Rain Queen's death. Some villagers believe she died from a broken heart when her lover David Mogale was banned from the Royal Village by the Royal Council. Mogale himself claims that the Royal Council poisoned Makobo, as they saw her unfit to hold the much-revered position of Rain Queen, and this was the easiest way to have her removed. Hospital staff believed she died of AIDS, while others are concerned with the disappearance of Makobo's brother, Mpapatla, last seen on the day of Makobo's death.\n\nA fire broke out in the local chief's house, where Makobo's coffin was being kept, before her funeral. The fire was extinguished before Makobo's coffin suffered any damage, but the event seemed to arouse more suspicions of foul play surrounding Makobo's death.\n\nOfficially, Makobo died of chronic meningitis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080840", "title": "Representation of the People Act 1948", "text": "Representation of the People Act 1948\n\nThe Representation of the People Act 1948 was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that altered the law relating to parliamentary and local elections. It is noteworthy for abolishing plural voting, including by the abolition of the twelve separate university constituencies; and for again increasing the number of members overall, in this case to 613.\n\nPart I of the Act declared that in future the United Kingdom would be divided into single-member borough constituencies and county constituencies. These terms replaced the former designations of parliamentary borough/division of a parliamentary borough and parliamentary county/division of a parliamentary county (in Scotland \"burgh constituencies\" replaced parliamentary burghs). There were to be 613 such constituencies, in place of the 591 under previous legislation.\n\nThese were to be the only constituencies, and the Act thus abolished the university constituencies; thus graduates of universities (about 7% of the electorate) no longer had the right to vote in two constituencies. Constituencies which had been represented by more than one MP were also abolished.\n\nPersons eligible to vote were to be British subjects of \"full age\" (21 years) and \"not subject to any legal incapacity to vote\", provided that they were registered to vote in the constituency. Each voter was only permitted to cast a single vote in one constituency, even if for some reason they were registered in more than one. The arrangements which had given plural votes to electors who met a property qualification because of their business or shop premises were abolished.\n\nEach constituency was to have an electoral registration officer, who was to compile the electoral register. In England and Wales, this officer was the clerk of the appropriate county or borough council; in Scotland, it was the assessor of a county or large burgh; and in Northern Ireland it was the town clerk of the county borough of Belfast or the secretary of the county council. An electoral register was to be published in Spring and Autumn of each year.\n\nQualifications for an elector to be registered were set out, with residence in the constituency on a specified date being the principal requirement. There was an additional \"service qualification\" for members of the armed forces and other persons outside the state on diplomatic or other Crown business, and their spouses. Electors were to vote in person, except in exceptional circumstances in which a proxy vote might be permitted.\n\nEach constituency was to be divided into polling districts by the registration officer, who was also to designate polling places within each district. Rules were laid down for the process: for instance each civil parish in an English or Welsh county constituency was to be a separate district. Where a group of thirty electors felt that they were not provided with a convenient polling place, they were entitled to petition the Secretary of State for a review.\n\nThe procedures for recounts and for choosing the winning candidate by lot in the event of a tie were laid down. A candidate who received less than an eighth of the total number of votes cast would forfeit their monetary deposit.\n\nFinally Part I dealt with the appointment and duties of the returning officer. In England and Wales these were to be either the high sheriff of a county, the sheriff of a county corporate, the mayor of a borough or the chairman of an urban district council, as appointed by the Home Secretary. In Scotland the returning officer was to be a sheriff of a local sheriffdom, and in Northern Ireland the under-sheriff of a county or county borough.\n\nThe electorate for local elections was larger than that for parliamentary elections. Apart from those resident in the district, there was an additional \"non-resident qualification\" to vote where an owner or tenant occupied rateable land or premises therein of the yearly value of not less than ten pounds. The electoral registration officer appointed under Part I of the Act was also to compile a local government register, although the two registers could be combined, with the names of those persons registered only as local government electors marked. Electors were not permitted to be registered more than once in a single local government district, even if they occupied multiple premises. There was no prohibition on voting in different local authority areas, however.\n\nPolling districts were to be delineated and polling places designated by the registration officer. In the absence of other arrangements these were to be identical to those used for parliamentary elections.\n\nPart III of the Act set new limits for the expenses that candidates were permitted to pay their election agent. In a county constituency this was to be £450, plus 2d for each name in the electoral register; in borough constituencies it was to be £450 plus 1½d for each elector.\n\nAmong other restrictions, no supporter of a candidate was permitted to use a motor vehicle to bring an elector to the polls, or to loan or rent such a vehicle to an elector, unless the vehicle was first registered with the returning officer. There was to be a limit of one vehicle per 1,500 electors in a county constituency and 2,500 in a borough constituency. The broadcast of any programme relating to an election on a radio station other than one operated by the British Broadcasting Corporation was also prohibited. This prohibition extended to broadcasters outside the state.\n\nEach candidate was allowed to send an election address to each elector post free, and was entitled to the use of a room in a publicly funded school in which to hold meetings.\n\nPart IV altered the dates for the holding of local elections in England and Wales. County councillors were to be elected in the first week of April, and all other councillors in the first week of May. All borough elections were to be held on the same day, set by the Home Secretary. The date for other elections was to be set by the appropriate county council. The change of dates meant that the borough elections due in November 1948 were postponed until the following May. Mayors' and council chairmen's terms of office were extended until the first meeting held after the rescheduled elections.\n\nThe constitution of the London County Council was slightly altered: previously two councillors were elected for electoral divisions corresponding to each parliamentary constituency in the County of London, with an additional four for the City of London. With the reorganisation of constituencies in the county by the Act, the City lost its special position, being combined with Westminster in a single electoral division.\n\nThe dates for holding local elections in Scotland was also altered:\n\nCounty, district and burgh elections due in 1948 were postponed until 1949, and councillors due to retire were to continue in office. This also applied to county conveners, burgh provosts, honorary treasurers of burghs and chairmen of district councils.\n\nThe final part of the Act listed the duties of the registration officer and established an appeals procedure for persons excluded from the register. It also allowed for funds to be made available for the registration process.\n\nSchedule I set out the names, number and constitution of the constituencies, which replaced those created by the Representation of the People Act 1918 and Redistribution of Seats (Ireland) Act 1918. In a few counties where there had been an exceptional increase in the electorate since 1918, additional constituencies had been created for the 1945 general election by the House of Commons (Redistribution of Seats) Act 1944 as a temporary measure.\n"}
{"id": "2080845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080845", "title": "Rémy Martin", "text": "Rémy Martin\n\nRémy Martin () is a French firm that primarily produces and sells cognac. Founded in 1724 and based in the city of Cognac, it is one of the biggest cognac producers and is also part of the Comité Colbert, an association of luxury businesses which promotes French know-how worldwide. The brand specialises in Cognac Fine Champagne.\n\nThe name Rémy Martin comes from the name of the company founder, born in 1695 near Rouillac. A winegrower by trade, in 1724 he created a trading house of cognac. After his death in 1773, his grandson, also named Rémy, pursued the business. In 1841, Paul-Emile-Rémy Martin assumed control of the business and oversaw great growth. He added a logo to the bottles and cases, in the shape of a centaur, a mythological creature representing Sagittarius, Martin's own zodiac sign. The Rémy Martin brand uses a distinctive centaur logo and in China is also called réntóumă (人头马), literally \"man-headed horse\".\n\nDuring the interwar period, André Renaud, a trained lawyer and merchant, who had been a partner in E. Rémy Martin & Co. since 1910, took the lead, and in 1927 launched the first VSOP Fine Champagne. Rémy Martin cognacs were then sold worldwide. After the Second World War, Rémy Martin continued its rise under André Hériard-Dubreuil, André Renaud's son-in-law. At the death of André Renaud in 1965, André Hériard-Dubreuil became president. His children gradually joined him, notably his daughter Dominique Hériard-Dubreuil who became general manager in 1988 and president two years later. In 1991, the House of Rémy Martin incorporated Rémy Cointreau into the family group.\n\nAll Rémy Martin cognacs have the Cognac Fine Champagne appellation, meaning that they come exclusively from a blend of eaux-de-vie from the Grande Champagne and Petite Champagne crus, with at least 50% of Grande Champagne. Thanks to chalky soils, these eaux-de-vie have a great ageing potential and a particular aromatic intensity. Since 1948, under the leadership of André Renaud, Rémy Martin has made this exclusive choice. During the 1960s, l’Alliance Fine Champagne (the Fine Champagne Alliance) was created by André Hériard Dubreuil of the House of Rémy Martin. This cooperative brings together a thousand winegrowers from Petite Champagne and Grande Champagne and supplies almost 90% of the eaux-de-vie of the House. The Rémy Martin House markets more than 80% of the Fine Champagne cognacs.\n\nRémy Martin uses traditional distillation on the lees (retaining the sediments that occur during vinification of the grapes) in small copper stills. Ageing takes place in oak barrels of the Limousin type, during which the alcohol evaporates (the angels' share) and blackens the walls of the cellars. The eau-de-vie slowly evolves over time, punctuated by periods of rest and changes of barrel. The exchanges between the wood, oxygen and the eaux-de-vie are constant. Depending on which style is sought, cognac can age in young or old barrels, with a stronger or finer grain on the oak staves. Finally comes the blending of the different barrels to create a cognac.\n\nThe House’s current Cellar Master, Baptiste Loiseau, assumed the position in 2014 at the age of 34. He follows in the footsteps of André Renaud, André Giraud, Georges Clot, and Pierrette Trichet.\n\nCreated in 1927, Rémy Martin VSOP is the biggest selling VSOP cognac worldwide. The frosted bottle was introduced in 1972.\n\nExclusive to European markets, VSOP Mature Cask Finish was created in 2011. Originating from the same terroirs of Grande and Petite Champagne, with the same specifications for distillation, after the final blending, this cognac spends another year in 20-year old oak barrels.\n\nLaunched in 1997 and named after the royal decree issued in 1738 when King Louis XV granted the Accord Royal to Rémy Martin in honor of his craftsmanship.\n\nExclusive to China, CLUB was created in 1986 and features an octagonal-shaped bottle. In 2015, Rémy Martin launched the CLUB Connected Bottle, the first NFC-enabled spirits bottle featuring high-security anti-counterfeiting measures.\n\nCreated by Cellar Master André Giraud in 1981, XO is a blend of up to 400 eaux-de-vie.\n\nA single barrel blend selected by the Cellar Master, with all eaux-de-vie being at least twenty years old.\n\nSold at an elevated price point, Centaure de Diamant uses only eaux-de-vie from the finest 10% of those available to Rémy Martin.\n\nExclusive to duty free locations, Cellar 16 (Prime Cellar Selection) and Cellar 28 (Reserve Cellar Selection) are selected by the Cellar Master from aging cellars with unique characteristics.\n\nLouis XIII cognac is produced and aged in thin walled oak barrels that are 100-150 years old and in the Grande Champagne region of Cognac.\n\nIn 2010, Rémy Martin introduced its first clear spirit, Rémy Martin V, in the US. Rather than using the oak barrel aging process, the liquid undergoes a proprietary filtration process, giving it a transparent color and subtle taste with hints of pear and a fresh minty aftertaste. It is not a cognac, but an \"eau-de-vie de vin\"\n\nThe House of Rémy Martin partners with artists to represent its cognacs. These include Californian actor Jeremy Renner, Chinese actor and singer Huang Xiaoming, and Taiwanese mandopop singer Jolin Tsai. In 2008, the American photographer and director David LaChapelle created a bottle design. In 2013, Rémy Martin teamed up with US-Canadian singer and producer Robin Thicke to launch a limited edition of VSOP. Rémy Martin can also be found in the world of rap, especially in America with Fetty Wap frequently mentioning the 1738 variety in his work.\n\nIn 1980, at the beginning of the Chinese economic reform, Rémy Martin ventured into China with The Dynasty brand (Dynasty Wine Ltd), the first foreign wine maker and the second joint-venture in all China.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080847", "title": "The Grier School", "text": "The Grier School\n\nGrier School For Girls is an all-girls boarding school founded in 1853 in Tyrone, Pennsylvania near Penn State University. Its school symbol is a green and white shield with a pine tree. The school is located in the heart of the Appalachian Mountains map and currently enrolls students in grades 7 to 12. Currently, the school enrolls 315 students from 30 states and 16 foreign countries. The annual tuition is $51,700 (current for the 2016-2017 school year). The school motto is \"Sana Mens In Corpore Sana\", meaning \"Sound Mind in a Sound Body.\"\nGrier offers a very competitive college preparatory academic program. Currently, 21 AP classes are offered in all of the core disciplines.\n\nGrier students live in dormitories housed in the main complex of buildings as well as in dormitories that are called \"Cottages.\" Two girls share one bedroom and a bathroom with the next two students down the hall. Each dorm is supervised by a pair of housemothers who are mature women who have raised families. The housemothers take care of all the girls in the dorm. The school kitchen staff provides food every day for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. School counselors help students to adjust well to life at school. The college counselor works with all students at all age levels as they prepare for college. There is a Health Center on campus, staffed by registered nurses. \nGrier School is also host to Grier Summer Camps during the summer months, which is a \"sleep away\" camp that also offers day camper programs. The summer camps attract students who enjoy horseback riding, dance, creative arts and theater. At Grier summer camps, ages 7 to 18 may attend. \nhttp://www.grier.org/\n\nStudents are required to participate in seasonal sports and a wide variety are offered each term. Grier has an equestrian team as well as volleyball, basketball, cross country, soccer, dance, fencing and tennis teams. The Grier School has an extremely reputable dance program, housed in a state-of-the-art Performing Arts Center. Recently, Grier's Pre-Professional Dancers performed at Steps on Broadway in New York City and the Koresh Showcase in Philadelphia. Non-varsity sports include alpine skiing, yoga, body sculpting, Pilates, archery, fencing, badminton and table tennis. Grier's Equestrian program is quite big with over 40 horses in expansive facilities including two indoor rings and two outdoor rings. Riding is offered at all levels of ability. Each student must participate in some sport at least one hour a day, four days a week.\n\nGrier School hosts international students coming from more than 14 different countries each year. ESL support classes are offered during the school year. Prior to the start of school, many of the international students must participate in the eight-week Summer TOEFL/SAT Program as preparation for school.\n\nGrier girls and Kiski boys enjoy a dance together at the prom. On the weekends there are many activities offered, both on campus and off. Trips off campus include visits to New York City to see Broadway shows, visits to museums in Pittsburgh and DC, outing club activities, Community Service, horseback riding, skiing, shopping trips, bowling, trips to the movies, dinner outings, fly fishing, golfing and a range of many other activities.\n\nThe Grier School is a member of the following organizations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080850", "title": "Michael Morrison (author)", "text": "Michael Morrison (author)\n\nMichael Wayne Morrison (born August 24, 1970) is an American author, software developer, and toy inventor. He is best known for his books on topics including Internet design and development, mobile device usage, and game programming.\n\nMorrison's writing career began in the early 1990s and coincided with the release of the Java programming language. He embraced the Java technology and wrote and contributed to numerous Java books, as well as developing several online Java courses. His first book was actually \"Windows 95 Game Developer's Guide Using the Game SDK\", which was the first book to explore and demystify Microsoft's new (at the time) DirectX game development technology. He co-authored his first book with his close friend and former college roommate, the late Randy Weems, who Morrison credits with a great deal of his technical knowledge. Morrison quickly followed up this book by serving as lead author of \"Java Unleashed\", which quickly became a best-seller. He went on to write books on numerous Web-related technologies such as HTML, XML, CSS, and JavaScript, and also ventured into end-user writing by authoring books on Pocket PC, BlackBerry, and Treo handheld devices.\n\nMorrison was born in Nashville, Tennessee. He has a B.A. from Tennessee Technological University in Electrical Engineering, although he credits the school with little beyond serving as the place where he met his wife and a handful of close friends.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080857", "title": "Rob Moodie (lawyer)", "text": "Rob Moodie (lawyer)\n\nRobert Alexander \"Rob\" Moodie (born October 1938) is a New Zealand lawyer and former police officer and politician. He was mayor of Manawatu from 1995 to 1998 and twice stood unsuccessfully for Parliament under the United Future banner. He is also known for his wearing of kaftans during the 1980s while Police Association secretary, and female attire in the High Court and Court of Appeal in 2006.\n\nOne of 10 children, Moodie was born in Dunedin in 1938. He was made a ward of the state following his father's death from tuberculosis and grew up in a boys' home from the age of seven. He was fostered by the Clyne family living near Oamaru and attended Waitaki Boys' High School. However, he did not do well at school and left aged 15. He worked as a freezing worker and a fencing contractor before deciding to join the police when he was 19.\n\nMoodie joined the New Zealand Police in 1959 and served as a detective in Wellington, rising to the rank of inspector. He then studied law at Victoria University of Wellington, graduating with first-class honours and subsequently completed a PhD in 1976.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1986, he was secretary of the New Zealand Police Association and was awarded life membership in 1987.\n\nMoodie acted for Keith and Margaret Berryman, whose farm was the scene of a bridge collapse that killed a visiting beekeeper in 1994. The Te Rata Bridge had been designed and built by the New Zealand Army, which disputed claims that the collapse was caused by poor design and construction. Moodie ultimately won the case in 2008 when the High Court quashed the coroner's report that held that the Berrymans were largely responsible for the collapse.\n\nMoodie was elected mayor of Manawatu in 1995 and served one term. At the 1998 local-body elections, he stood for the mayoralties of both Manawatu District and Palmerston North, finishing third in Manawatu and 13th in Palmerston North.\n\nAt the 2002 general election, Moodie was the United Future candidate for the Wellington Central electorate and was ranked 40th on the party list. He gained 938 votes to finish in fifth position in Wellington Central and his list placing was too low for him to be elected.\n\nIn 2005, Moodie again stood for United Future, this time in the Rangitikei electorate. He came in fourth, polling 718 votes. He was not included on United Future's party list.\n\nA married heterosexual with three children, Moodie has said that he has a \"strong female gender bias\" and has always preferred women's clothes. He began wearing kaftans publicly in 1981 while secretary of the Police Association, as a statement about the macho culture of the New Zealand Police at the time.\n\nIn 2006, he wore women's clothing when appearing at the High Court in Wellington facing contempt charges arising from his release of a suppressed report during the Berryman case. He said that his attire was a \"gender-bending protest against the male-dominated corruption of New Zealand's judicial system\". He wore an Alice in Wonderland outfit before the Court of Appeal and officially changed his name to Miss Alice.\n\nMoodie began farming and breeding pedigree Angora and Boer goats on a property near Karori in Wellington in 1979. He later spent six years running a goat quarantine farm near Feilding.\n\nA 52-minute documentary made about Moodie in 2009, titled \"Lost in Wonderland\", was directed by Zoe McIntosh and produced by Costa Botes. It won awards for best cinematography and best popular documentary at the 2010 Qantas Film and Television Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080866", "title": "UltraISO", "text": "UltraISO\n\nUltraISO is an application for Microsoft Windows for creating, modifying and converting ISO image files used for optical disc authoring, currently being produced by EZB Systems.\n\nInitially UltraISO was shareware however since 2006 it has turned 'Premium' and become chargeable. The 'Free Trial' version is limited to ISO images of 300 MB or less.\n\n\nUltraISO uses a proprietary format known as ISZ. The format is advertised as \"ISO Zipped\", even though it is not a simple zip archive. The format uses zlib or bzip2 to compress the data, and can support AES encryption of various strengths. The file format specification is available publicly on EZB Systems's website. The format is now supported by third party applications such as Daemon Tools, Alcohol 120% and CDemu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080875", "title": "Aeschynanthus radicans", "text": "Aeschynanthus radicans\n\nAeschynanthus radicans is a vine-like plant native to the humid tropics of the Malay Peninsula south to Java.\n\nIt is an epiphyte or lithophyte growing to 1.5 m tall, with leathery, green leaves that are 4–8 cm long, ovate to lanceolate, opposite or whorled. The flowers are terminal, tubular, 5–7.5 cm long, with the upper lobes shorter than the lower. They are usually scarlet with yellow throats.\n\nThe common name lipstick plant, shared with other plants of the genus \"Aeschynanthus\", comes from the scarlet flowers that open from buds resembling tubes of lipstick.\n\nThis plant is noted for its excellence as an interior plant and is perfect for hanging baskets. It requires a great deal of light, but not direct sunlight. Humidity is also noted as having an important positive effect. Clipping the plant makes it fuller. New plants may be started in water from clippings. This particular plant is also distinctive due to its pungent smell.\n"}
{"id": "2080878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080878", "title": "WFTV", "text": "WFTV\n\nWFTV, virtual channel 9 (UHF digital channel 35), is an ABC-affiliated television station licensed to Orlando, Florida, United States. The station is owned by Atlanta-based Cox Media Group, as part of a duopoly with independent station WRDQ (channel 27). The two stations share studios on East South Street (SR 15) in downtown Orlando; WFTV's transmitter is located between Bithlo and Christmas.\n\nThe station's signal is relayed through a UHF digital translator on channel 19 in Deltona (transmitting from WNUE-FM's tower). On cable, WFTV is available on channel 7 on Charter Spectrum, channel 10 on Comcast Xfinity, and channel 9 on CenturyLink Prism and in outlying areas. WFTV is also carried on cable providers in Polk and Citrus counties, which are part of the Tampa Bay market, although non-local programming is subject to blackout due to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)'s network non-duplication and syndication exclusivity rules.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on February 1, 1958 under the callsign WLOF-TV (standing for \"We Love Orlando, Florida\"). It has been an ABC affiliate since the station's inception. For years, the station was owned by the Mid-Florida Television Corporation, which was a consortium of local investors. Channel 9 changed its callsign to the current WFTV in 1963. In 1984, the station was purchased by the SFN Companies. SFN in turn sold the station to Cox Broadcasting (now Cox Media Group) in 1985.\nIn 1987, WFTV announced that they would move from their original location on West Central Boulevard, to a new studio located at their present-day location.\n\nSince July 2006, WFTV is seen on the co-owned Cox cable system in Ocala (standard definition channel 9 and high definition channel 729) in addition to Gainesville's WCJB-TV. Ocala and Marion County are both part of the Orlando market. Prior to this, the Cox system in Ocala only offered WCJB due to contractual obligations even though that city is not in the same television market as Gainesville. To further complicate matters for viewers in the area of northwest Marion County, WNBW-DT, an NBC affiliate located in Gainesville and in operation since 2008, also identifies itself as channel 9, using that channel as its PSIP, though broadcasting on VHF channel 9 itself, as opposed to WFTV, which broadcasts on UHF channel 39, but also using a PSIP of 9. WNBW is not seen on the Cox or Spectrum systems serving Marion County.\n\nOn July 24, 2018, Cox Enterprises announced that it was \"exploring strategic options\" for Cox Media Group's television stations, including WFTV, which the company said could involve \"partnering or merging these stations into a larger TV company.\" Cox Media Group's president, Kim Guthrie, subsequently clarified to trade publication \"Radio & Television Business Report\" that the company was solely seeking \"a merger or partnership\" and not an outright sale of the television stations. \n\nIn February 2019, it was announced that Apollo Global Management would acquire Cox Media Group and Northwest Broadcasting's stations. Although the group planned to operate under the name Terrier Media, it was later announced in June 2019 that Apollo would also acquire Cox's radio and advertising businesses, and retain the Cox Media Group name. The sale was completed on December 17, 2019.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWFTV's second digital subchannel originally launched sometime in 2006 as a local weather service, broadcasting in 720p HD on channel 9.2 over-the-air and Bright House channel 1091. The 9.2 subchannel was then downgraded to 480i standard definition to make room for the 9.3 subchannel. In April 2010, WFTV announced plans to add a simulcast of GenTV affiliate WAWA-LD on a third digital subchannel. However, before the subchannel could launch, WAWA's chief investor pulled out, effectively closing that station and dissolving the partnership with WFTV. On January 25, 2013, the station replaced its weather channel Severe Weather Center 9 on digital subchannel 9.2 with Spanish language service Mega TV. In August 2014, Grit TV was added to channel 9.3. On April 14, 2015, Grit TV moved to sister station WRDQ and was replaced by Laff TV on 9.3. In January 2016, Laff was moved to 9.2 as WFTV relaunched its 24-hour local weather channel on 9.3. In July 2016, 9.3 began displaying a message that it would become Escape (later rebranded as Court TV Mystery) on August 1, 2016.\n\nWFTV ended programming on its analog signal, on VHF channel 9, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal continued to broadcast on its pre-transition UHF channel 39. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 9. Since February 25, 2009, it has had an application filed with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to operate an auxiliary digital facility from a transmitter in northeastern Osceola County.\n\nAs of September 2019, syndicated programming on the station includes \"Right This Minute\" (co-produced by Cox Media Group), \"The Kelly Clarkson Show\", \"Judge Jerry\", \"Wheel of Fortune\", \"Jeopardy!\", and \"Family Feud\".\n\nIn the 1970s, WFTV preempted the ABC Sunday morning cartoon rerun lineup, which many affiliates also did not run. Until the \"$20,000 Pyramid\" moved to the noon slot, WFTV chose to not run whatever show ABC had on at noon on weekdays in order to run a local newscast; after \"Pyramid\" was moved to that slot, WFTV ran it earlier in the morning and a day behind. In May 1975, the station controversially preempted the Emmy Award-winning made-for-TV movie \"A Moon for the Misbegotten\", due to the film's adult language. In 1978, \"Mork & Mindy\" was rescheduled by the station to air on Sunday afternoons, but was cleared to air in prime time after a few weeks. From the mid-1970s through the early-1980s, WFTV preempted the soap opera \"The Edge of Night\", which was preempted by many other ABC affiliates as well (though the station did air the network's \"Afterschool Specials\") . From 1985 to the early 1990s, WFTV ran only half of the shows ABC put in the 11 a.m. to noon slot. From 1994 to 1996, the station did not air ABC's weekday morning programs at 11 (\"The Home Show\" and \"Mike and Maty\"). The station began to carry such programming overnights starting in 1996, though WFTV did not start to air it in its proper timeslot until \"The View\" debuted in 1997. WFTV ran the entire Saturday morning cartoon lineup from ABC until 1990, when it began preempting two hours of the lineup in favor of a morning newscast. In 1993, WFTV expanded the newscast to three hours and dropped the entire Saturday morning ABC cartoon lineup, adding syndicated programming. In 1996, an hour of ABC cartoons was restored on Sunday mornings and another hour was restored to Saturday mornings early in 1997. In the fall of 1997, WFTV began to carry two hours of the lineup that were under the \"One Saturday Morning\" banner. In 1999, the station increased the amount of Saturday morning cartoons from ABC to three hours and increased it to four hours in 2002.\n\nWFTV was one of the few ABC affiliates that did not clear \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" during the program's early years. Its sister stations in Atlanta (WSB-TV) and Charlotte (WSOC-TV) as well as Allbritton-owned KTUL in Tulsa and Sinclair Broadcast Group-owned WEAR-TV in Pensacola also initially did not air the program. However, on November 21, 2005, the station began airing the late-night talk show and now airs almost the entire ABC schedule with little preemption. The last regularly preempted program was the Sunday edition of \"Good Morning America\" but it began airing on WFTV on a one-hour delay beginning on April 26, 2015, moving the previously scheduled religious programs to WRDQ; in the past, WFTV has declined some of ABC's other weekend morning programming. Four out of five hours of the ABC Saturday morning lineup were run through 2010, including three out of four hours of the \"ABC Kids\" lineup. The station began carrying the Saturday edition of \"Good Morning America\" in the beginning of July 2007 along with its sister stations in Atlanta and Charlotte. While the station now airs the entire three-hour \"Litton's Weekend Adventure\" lineup, it preempted its predecessor block ABC Kids' former fourth hour that featured children's programming that did not comply with E/I requirements (such as the \"Power Rangers\" series, which ABC later dropped nationally on August 28, 2010. In 2004, all Cox-owned ABC affiliates preempted the movie \"Saving Private Ryan\" due to the graphic violence and profanity in the film after the FCC stepped up its vigilance following the Janet Jackson-Justin Timberlake Super Bowl incident that year; the FCC declared the film as not indecent after the fact. The same Cox-owned ABC affiliated stations had preempted the movie \"Unforgiven\" in 1996, although it was because the movie aired opposite the fifth game of the 1996 World Series in which Andy Pettitte of the New York Yankees shut out the Atlanta Braves and not because of any violence in the movie. Since the late 1990s, WFTV has not shown the \"ABC News Brief\" that airs during ABC daytime programming in favor of additional local advertising.\n\nFrom May to July 2011, ABC Daytime programming was moved over to sister station WRDQ due to WFTV's wall-to-wall coverage of the Casey Anthony trial. This practice was repeated to accommodate coverage of the George Zimmerman trial in 2013.\n\nWFTV airs select UCF Knights football games and any Orlando Magic games via ESPN on ABC.\n\nWFTV presently broadcasts 43½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 6½ hours on weekdays and 5½ hours each Saturdays and Sundays); in addition, the station produces a half-hour sports highlight program called \"Sports Night on 9\", that airs on Sunday evenings after the 11 p.m. newscast. The station operates a Baron Services weather radar called \"Early Warning Doppler 9 HD\" at its old analog transmitter site north of Bithlo along the Orange and Seminole county line. WFTV plans to upgrade the radar's power to one million watts, that would make it the second most powerful radar in central Florida (WOFL's also operating at one million watts).\n\nFor most of the time since the 1980s, WFTV has been the dominant news station in Central Florida. Although NBC affiliate WESH made some temporary advances in the 1990s, WFTV often enjoys ratings higher than the combined rating of the other network affiliates in the Central Florida market. In some airings, it has been the highest rated ABC station in the Southeastern United States. In the May 2009 sweeps period, only WESH's weekday morning news programs even came close to tying WFTV in the ratings race while the prime time programs on CBS affiliate WKMG-TV led overall. In fact, during much of the first half of 2009, WFTV's dominance was not as absolute as it had been in the past decade or so even though it continues to lead in most timeslots. However, in the November 2009 sweeps period, WFTV regained its dominance over the other stations in the market. It has been one of ABC's strongest affiliates over the years.\n\nFor the February 2012 sweeps period, WFTV continued to win morning, noon and evening time slots. However, WFTV finished in third place in the 25-to-54 demographic at 11 p.m. despite the return of Bob Opsahl to the anchor desk for the month. WKMG beat WFTV by 5,700 viewers while second-place WESH beat WFTV by 700 viewers.\n\nBob Opsahl and Martie Salt were the main anchor duo on WFTV from 1984 to 1994 and again from 2003 until Opsahl's retirement on May 25, 2016. Salt was originally an anchor from 1982 to 1994, departing for Tampa ABC affiliate WFTS-TV from when that station's news department began in 1994 until 2003 (where she anchored the news under her married name, Martie Tucker); she returned to WFTV in 2003. In 1992, WFTV dropped two of the five hours of ABC's Saturday morning cartoons in order to add a local newscast; the station ceased airing the block completely in 1993, when the broadcast expanded to three hours. Alongside its own \"Eyewitness News\" shows, WFTV has also been producing a nightly 10 p.m. newscast since the 1990s, WFTV first produced a 10 p.m. newscast for WRBW-TV under a news share agreement with that station, prior to moving the 10 p.m. newscast to sister station WRDQ since 2000. It added a two-hour-long weekday morning newscast at 7 a.m. on WRDQ in 2007, and a half-hour 6:30 p.m. newscast on that station in 2010.\n\nOn June 29, 2006, channel 9 became the first Florida station, the first station owned by Cox Enterprises and the tenth in the country to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition. With the switch to HD, came a new set from FX Group and graphics from Giant Octopus (the station has used graphics from other sources in the past, including a late 1990s package based on Dayton, Ohio sister station WHIO-TV). On June 10, 2013, WFTV launched a new half-hour 4 p.m. newscast to compete against WESH's longer established and hour-long news program, which had been the only newscast at 4 p.m. since WKMG dropped its own 4 p.m. news in May 2009. Around on the same day or afterwards, WFTV dropped the 6:30 p.m. news for WRDQ. After just one month on-air, WFTV extended the 4 p.m. newscast to one hour, starting July 22, 2013. On September 15, 2014, WFTV expanded the weeknight 10:00 p.m. news on WRDQ to an hour, citing the ratings success of the broadcast in which has now able to tightly compete against long-time leader WOFL. \n\nOn January 6, 2020, WFTV began its expanded weekday morning newscast with an extra half-hour starting at 4:30 a.m. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080880", "title": "Daniel Greenberg", "text": "Daniel Greenberg\n\nDaniel or Dan Greenberg may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080887", "title": "2-Butoxyethanol", "text": "2-Butoxyethanol\n\n2-Butoxyethanol is an organic compound with the chemical formula BuOCHOH (Bu = CHCHCHCH). This colorless liquid has a sweet, ether-like odor, as it derives from the family of glycol ethers, and is a butyl ether of ethylene glycol. As a relatively nonvolatile, inexpensive solvent, it is used in many domestic and industrial products because of its properties as a surfactant. It is a known respiratory irritant and can be acutely toxic but animal studies did not find it to be mutagenic, and no studies suggest it is a human carcinogen. A study of 13 classroom air contaminants conducted in Portugal reported a statistically significant association with increased rates of nasal obstruction, the study also reported a positive association below the level of statistical significance with a higher risk of obese asthma and increased child BMI.\n\n2-Butoxyethanol is commonly obtained through two processes; the ethoxylation reaction of butanol and ethylene oxide in the presence of a catalyst:\nor the etherification of butanol with 2-chloroethanol. 2-butoxyethanol can be obtained in the laboratory by performing a ring opening of 2-propyl-1,3-dioxolane with boron trichloride. It is often produced industrially by combining ethylene glycol and butyraldehyde in a Parr reactor with palladium on carbon.\n\nIn 2006, the European production of butyl glycol ethers amounted to 181 kilotons, of which approximately 50% (90 kt/a) was 2-Butoxyethanol. World production is estimated to be 200 to 500 kt/a, of which 75% is for paints and coatings and 18% for metal cleaners and household cleaners. In the US, it is considered a High Production Volume Chemical because greater than 100 million pounds of this chemical is produced per year.\n\n2-Butoxyethanol is a glycol ether with modest surfactant properties (and it can be used as a mutual solvent). In use since the 1930s, glycol ethers are solvents that dissolve both water-soluble and hydrophobic substances. Glycol ethers consist of two components, an alcohol and ether. According to the nature of alcohol, molecules of this class can be divided into two groups: E series and P series which correspond to ethylene and propylene respectively. Glycol ethers are selected for specific purposes, such as solubility, inflammability, and volatility.\n\n2-Butoxyethanol is a solvent for paints and surface coatings, as well as cleaning products and inks. Products that contain 2-butoxyethanol include acrylic resin formulations, asphalt release agents, firefighting foam, leather protectors, oil spill dispersants, degreaser applications, photographic strip solutions, whiteboard cleaners, liquid soaps, cosmetics, dry cleaning solutions, lacquers, varnishes, herbicides, latex paints, enamels, printing paste, and varnish removers, and silicone caulk. Products containing this compound are commonly found at construction sites, automobile repair shops, print shops, and facilities that produce sterilizing and cleaning products. It is the main ingredient of many home, commercial and industrial cleaning solutions. Since the molecule has both non-polar and polar ends, butoxyethanol is useful for removing both polar and non-polar substances, like grease and oils. It is also approved by the U.S. FDA to be used as direct and indirect food additives, which include antimicrobial agents, defoamers, stabilizers, and adhesives.\n\n2-Butoxyethanol is commonly produced for the oil industry because of its surfactant properties.\n\nIn the petroleum industry, 2-butoxyethanol is a component of fracturing fluids, drilling stabilizers, and oil slick dispersants for both water-based and oil-based hydraulic fracturing When liquid is pumped into the well, the fracturing fluids are pumped under extreme pressure, so 2-butoxyethanol is used to stabilize them by lowering the surface tension. As a surfactant, 2-butoxyethanol adsorbs at the oil-water interface of the fracture. The compound is also used to facilitate the release of the gas by preventing congealing. It is also used as a crude oil-water coupling solvent for more general oil well workovers. Because of its surfactant properties, it is a major constituent (30–60% w/w) in the oil spill dispersant Corexit 9527, which was widely used in the aftermath of the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill.\n\n2-Butoxyethanol has a low acute toxicity, with of 2.5 g/kg in rats. Laboratory tests by the U. S. National Toxicology Program have shown that only sustained exposure to high concentrations (100-500 ppm) of 2-butoxyethanol can cause adrenal tumors in animals. American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) reports that 2-butoxyethanol is carcinogenic in rodents. These rodent tests may not directly translate to carcinogenicity in humans, as the observed mechanism of cancer involves the rodents' forestomach, which humans lack. OSHA does not regulate 2-butoxyethanol as a carcinogen. 2-butoxyethanol has not been shown to penetrate shale rock in a study conducted by Manz.\n\n2-Butoxyethanol can be disposed of by incineration. It was shown that disposal occurs faster in the presence of semiconductor particles. 2-Butoxyethanol usually decomposes in the presence of air within a few days by reacting with oxygen radicals. It has not been identified as a major environmental contaminant, nor is it known to bio-accumulate. 2-Butoxyethanol biodegrades in soils and water, with a half life of 1–4 weeks in aquatic environments.\n\n2-butoxyethanol most commonly enters the human body system through dermal absorption, inhalation, or oral consumption of the chemical. The ACGIH threshold limit value (TLV) for worker exposure is 20 ppm, which is well above the odor detection threshold of 0.4 ppm. Blood or urine concentrations of 2-butoxyethanol or the metabolite 2-butoxyacetic acid may be measured using chromatographic techniques. A biological exposure index of 200 mg 2-butoxyacetic acid per g creatinine has been established in an end-of-shift urine specimen for U.S. employees. 2-Butoxyethanol and its metabolites fall to undetectable levels in urine after about 30 hours in human males.\n\nHarmful effects have been observed in nonhuman mammals exposed to high levels of 2-butoxyethanol. Developmental effects were seen in a study that exposed pregnant Fischer 344 rats, a type of laboratory rat, and New Zealand white rabbits to varying doses of 2-butoxyethanol. At 100 ppm (483 mg/m) and 200 ppm (966 mg/m) exposure, statistically significant increases were observed in the number of litters with skeletal defects. Additionally, 2-butoxyethanol was associated with a significant decrease in maternal body weight, uterine weight, and number of total implants. 2-Butoxyethanol is metabolized in mammals by the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase.\n\nNeurological effects have also been observed in animals exposed to 2-butoxyethanol. Fischer 344 rats exposed to 2-butoxyethanol at concentrations of 523 ppm and 867 ppm experienced decreased coordination. Male rabbits showed a loss of coordination and equilibrium after exposure to 400 ppm of 2-butoxyethanol for two days.\n\nWhen exposed to 2-butoxyethanol in drinking water, both F344/N rats and B63F1 mice showed negative effects. The range of exposure for the two species was between 70 mg/kg body weight per day to 1300 mg/kg body weight per day. Decreased body weight and water consumption were seen for both species. Rats had reduced red blood cell counts and thymus weights, as well as lesions in the liver, spleen, and bone marrow.\n\nEnvironment and Health Canada recommended that 2-butoxyethanol be added to Schedule 1 of the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 (CEPA). Under these regulations, products containing 2-butoxyethanol are to be diluted below a certain concentration. Only those in which the user performs the required dilution are required to include it on labelling information.\n\n2-Butoxyethanol is listed in California as a hazardous substance and the state sets an 8 hour average airborne concentration exposure limit at 25 ppm, and in California employers are required to inform employees when they are working with it.\n\nIt is approved by the Food and Drug Administration as \"an indirect and direct food additive for use as an antimicrobial agent, defoamer, stabilizer and component of adhesives\", and also \"may be used to wash or assist in the peeling of fruits and vegetables\" and \"may be safely used as components of articles intended for use in packaging, transporting & holding food\". After it was deleted from a UN list of substances requiring special toxicity labeling in 1994, and a subsequent petition by the American Chemistry Council, 2-butoxyethanol was removed from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's list of hazardous air pollutants in 2004. The safety of products containing 2-butoxyethanol as normally used is defended by the industry trade groups the American Chemistry Council and the Soap and Detergent Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080890", "title": "Susan Harrison", "text": "Susan Harrison\n\nSusan Stewart Harrison (August 26, 1938 – March 5, 2019) was an American actress. She is most famous for her appearance in the 1957 film noir classic \"Sweet Smell of Success\" as the sister for whom Burt Lancaster has an unhealthy affection, and in \"The Twilight Zone\" episode \"Five Characters in Search of an Exit\".\n\nHarrison was a graduate of the High School of Performing Arts in New York City, where she played Frankie in \"Member of the Wedding\" by Carson McCullers and Eliza Doolittle in George Bernard Shaw's \"Pygmalion\". She attended Boston University, briefly studying under Peter Kass, who directed her in the role of Abigail in Arthur Miller's \"The Crucible\".\n\nHer professional debut was in the live television drama \"Can You Coffeepot on Skates?\", presented in 1956. This was followed by television appearances on \"Matinee Theatre\" and \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\" and her cinematic debut in \"Sweet Smell of Success\". On October 19, 1957, she opened on Broadway at the Bijou Theater, playing \"the Girl\" in William Saroyan's new play \"The Cave Dwellers\" to uniformly good reviews. The following year she was in the \"Playhouse 90\" production of \"In Lonely Expectation\", which brought her to the attention of Rod Serling and led to her role as the ballerina in the iconic \"Twilight Zone\" episode. She had several later television and stage roles, most notably in an episode of the television show \"Bonanza\", \"Dark Star.\" In 1960 she played Ruby, the female lead, in the little-seen film \"Key Witness\" with Jeffrey Hunter and Dennis Hopper.\n\nBy 1963 she had left public life and acting and devoted herself to her family, although in the 1990s she played Elberta in a Jackson County Stage Company (Carbondale, Illinois) production of \"Mixed Couples\". She since appeared at various film and science fiction conventions, and she was involved in the Actors Studio until failing vision and health left her unable to participate.\n\nShe was the mother of Darva Conger, an Air Force veteran who became known as the winner of the reality television show \"Who Wants to Marry a Multi-Millionaire?\" but returned to a private life and worked as a Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist in Northern California. She had two other children, Dev Colin, a pilot for United Airlines, and Daniel Colin (d.2000). She also had three grandchildren, Cassius Arellano, Chase Colin, and Naomi Colin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080898", "title": "Mark Ellis (American author)", "text": "Mark Ellis (American author)\n\nMark Ellis is an American novelist and comic-book writer who under the pen name James Axler has written scores of books for the \"Outlanders\" paperback novel series and other books, as well as numerous independent comics series.\n\nEllis became a full-time freelance writer in 1986. In 1980, he married Melissa Martin, a graphic designer and writer who serves as his business partner.\n\nIn the mid-to-late 1980s Ellis worked as the primary writer for Adventure Publications' line of comic magazines, scripting such diverse titles as \"Ninja Elite\", \"Warriors\", \"Netherworlds\", and \"Star Rangers\", working with legendary comics artist Jim Mooney on the latter title.\n\nIn 1987–1988 Ellis created and scripted Adventure Publications' \"Death Hawk\", a series that featured the first published work of comics artist Adam Hughes.\n\nFor other comics publishers he wrote \"The Justice Machine\" as well as short stories for the occasional anthology, such as \"A Trip To Necropolis,\" a story which featured the last full pencil and ink by Jim Mooney.\n\nIn 1990, Ellis co-founded Millennium Publications, serving as editor, with his wife and co-founder Melissa Martin as art director. Millennium gave early exposure to such comics artists as Mike Wieringo and Darryl Banks, and utilized such industry veterans as Jim Mooney and Don Heck. Its projects included \"\" a twelve-issue adaptation of \"Anne Rice's The Mummy or Ramses the Damned\" among many others.\n\nFor Millennium, Ellis conceived and scripted \",\" a four-part series that provided a complete story of the title character's origin quite apart from the \"Dracula\" legend. Ellis also adapted the TV series \"The Man from U.N.C.L.E.\" and \"The Wild Wild West\", and the horror film \"It! The Terror from Beyond Space\" into comics. Working with artist Darryl Banks he adapted the pulp fiction hero Doc Savage into the four-part miniseries \"Doc Savage: The Monarch of Armageddon\".\n\n\"The Comics Buyer's Guide Catalog of Books\" referred to the Ellis/Banks version of Doc Savage as having \"come[s] closest to the original, capturing all the action, humanity, and humor of the original novels\".\n\nLeaving Millennium in 1993, Ellis went on to create the \"Outlanders\" series for Harlequin Enterprises's Gold Eagle imprint in 1996, the first entry of which appeared in 1997. It is the most successful mass-market paperback series produced in the last 25 years.\n\nAs of 2015, Ellis is the author of over 50 books, most of them under the pen name James Axler. Although the Axler pseudonym is shared with other writers, primarily the multiple contributors to Gold Eagle's \"Deathlands\" series, Ellis has authored more novels as \"James Axler\" than any other writer. As of 2015, The \"Outlanders\" series has sold more than a million copies worldwide.\n\nIn 2011, Ellis was contracted to develop several graphic novel projects for Sequential Pulp, the graphic novel imprint of Dark Horse Books. Among the graphic novels in development are \"King Solomon's Mines,\" working with veteran artist Pablo Marcos. The \"King Solomon's Mines\" graphic novel was released by Ying Ko graphics in the summer of 2015.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080908", "title": "Barbara Grizzuti Harrison", "text": "Barbara Grizzuti Harrison\n\nBarbara Grizzuti Harrison (September 14, 1934 – April 24, 2002) was an American journalist, essayist and memoirist. She is best known for her autobiographical work, particularly her account of growing up as a Jehovah's Witness, and for her travel writing.\n\nBarbara Grizzuti was born in Queens, New York City, on September 14, 1934. Her parents were first-generation Americans; her grandparents were immigrants from Calabria in Southern Italy. She later described her childhood as deeply troubled. Her mother, who apparently suffered from mental illness, was emotionally distant and insisted on describing herself as \"Barbara's relative\", not her mother. Near the end of her life Harrison also claimed that her father had sexually abused her. The turmoil of her childhood would have a strong influence on her writing.\n\nWhen Harrison was nine years old, she and her mother were converted by a Jehovah's Witness missionary who visited the family. Harrison's father and brother did not convert, and this caused a rift in the household. Harrison's mother immersed herself totally in her new faith, even making a pact with a Witness man to marry after Harrison's father had perished in the Last Judgment. Harrison later said that the Witnesses' bloody visions of apocalypse both stimulated her imagination and made her frightened to use it.\n\nA precocious student, Harrison skipped several grades in school. As a teenager at New Utrecht High School in Brooklyn, she fell in love with Arnold Horowitz, an English teacher who was among the first to encourage her writing talent. He apparently returned her feelings, and although their relationship remained platonic, they continued to see each other and to correspond until Horowitz's death in the late 1960s.\n\nAfter graduating from high school, Harrison, who had been forbidden to attend university, went to live and work at the Jehovah's Witness world headquarters, the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society in Brooklyn Heights. Her friendship with Horowitz scandalised her colleagues there; Nathan H. Knorr, then head of the Watchtower Society, told Harrison to stop seeing Horowitz, but she was unable to do so. The relationship was but one symptom of a growing conflict between Harrison's faith and her artistic sensibilities, which eventually led to a nervous breakdown. At the age of 22, Harrison left the facility, and very shortly afterward renounced her faith altogether.\n\nHarrison found work as a publisher's secretary and became involved in the bohemian life of Greenwich Village. She had a turbulent three-year affair with an African-American jazz trumpeter whom she never publicly named. Through him, Harrison associated with many of the leading jazz musicians of the day, including Ben Webster, Billie Holiday and Frank Sinatra. \"Jazzman\", as Harrison called her lover in her autobiography, would come back into her life nearly 40 years later; the two would resume their affair with undiminished passion and conflict until a second, and final, break-up.\n\nIn 1960 Barbara Grizzuti married W. Dale Harrison, an aid worker for Cooperative for Assistance and Relief Everywhere (CARE). The couple spent the eight years of their marriage living in Tripoli, Mumbai, Hyderabad, India, and Chichicastenango. The Harrisons had a son, Joshua, and a daughter, Anna. They divorced in 1968, and Barbara returned to New York with the children.\n\nBy now Harrison had become involved with the women's movement, and she began writing on feminist themes for various publications. Her first book, \"Unlearning the Lie: Sexism in School\", was published in 1969, a report on the Sex-roles Committee of Woodward School that was described as \"a brief and readable account of a two-year effort to change sexist attitudes, beliefs, and practices, in and out of the curriculum, at a private, multiracial elementary school in Brooklyn, New York.\" Harrison was one of the first contributors to \"Ms. magazine\".\n\nShe became nationally known in 1978 when she published \"Visions of Glory: A History and a Memory of Jehovah's Witnesses\", which combined childhood memoirs with a history of the Jehovah's Witness movement. Although Harrison expressed admiration for individual Witnesses and wrote sympathetically of their persecution, she portrayed the faith itself as harsh and tyrannical, racist and sexist.\n\nHarrison was an agnostic when she began \"Visions of Glory\", but while writing it she experienced a spiritual epiphany and converted to Catholicism. Her conversion became the subject of the book's last chapter. She drew much of her spirituality from the Catholic Worker Movement and from the medieval female mystics.\n\nHarrison wrote for many of the leading periodicals of her time, including \"The New York Times\", \"The Los Angeles Times\", \"The New Republic\", \"Harper's\", \"The Atlantic Monthly\", \"The Village Voice\", \"The Nation\", \"Ladies' Home Journal\" and \"Mother Jones magazine\". Among the people she interviewed were Red Barber, Mario Cuomo, Jane Fonda, Gore Vidal, Joan Didion, Francis Ford Coppola, Nadia Comăneci, Alessandra Mussolini and Barbara Bush. Because of her background, Harrison was often asked to write about movements that were perceived to be cults; she described families affected by the Unification Church and the Northeast Kingdom Community Church, and reported on the U.S. government's deadly standoff with the Branch Davidians in Waco, Texas.\n\nHarrison published two collections of her essays and interviews: \"Off Center\" (1980) and \"The Astonishing World\" (1992). Her 1992 Harper's essay \"P.C. on the Grill\", which lampooned the \"philosophy\" of popular TV chef The Frugal Gourmet, was included in the 1993 edition of \"Best American Essays\".\n\nHarrison also wrote numerous travel articles covering destinations all over the world. She published two books about her travels in Italy, \"Italian Days\" (1989) and \"\" (1991).\n\nIn 1984 Harrison published a novel, \"Foreign Bodies\". She won an O. Henry Award for short fiction in 1989.\n\nIn 1994 Harrison, who had been a heavy smoker for most of her adult life, was diagnosed with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. During her illness she completed her last book, \"An Accidental Autobiography\" (1996). As the title implied, the book was less a straightforward memoir than a stream-of-consciousness collection of memories and reflections, loosely organised by theme. As the \"Washington Post\" reviewer put it: \"This is by no stretch an autobiography. For one thing, Barbara Grizzuti Harrison scarcely touches upon her professional life. ... But there is so much sex and food and high life and glittering prose in these loosely woven memoirs that she can be pardoned her presumptuous title.\"\n\nHarrison wrote little afterwards, as her illness progressed. She died on April 24, 2002, in a hospice in Manhattan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080911", "title": "Frederick Johnson (politician)", "text": "Frederick Johnson (politician)\n\nFrederick William Johnson, (February 13, 1917 – June 20, 1993) was a Canadian lawyer, judge, and the 16th Lieutenant-Governor of Saskatchewan.\n\nBorn in Dudley, Staffordshire, England, the son of a clergyman, he emigrated to Canada with his family settling in Lipton, Saskatchewan when he was eleven. He taught school in Grenfell before serving as an artillery officer during World War II, achieving the rank of major. After the war, he attended the University of Saskatchewan and received a law degree in 1949. He practised law in Regina and was appointed Queen’s Counsel in 1963.\n\nHe ran as a Liberal candidate in the 1960 provincial election, losing to Allan Blakeney. In 1962, he ran as a federal Liberal for the electoral district of Regina City, losing to Progressive Conservative Kenneth Hamill More.\n\nHe was appointed to the Court of Queen's Bench in 1965 and from 1977 to 1983 served as Chief Justice of that court. From 1983 to 1988 he was the sixteenth Lieutenant-Governor of Saskatchewan and was the first chancellor of the Saskatchewan Order of Merit.\n\nHis wife Joyce Johnson was an eminent piano teacher. In 1990, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada \"for his dedication to the arts, education and the environment and for his contribution to Saskatchewan's history and heritage\". In 1991 was awarded the Saskatchewan Order of Merit.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080915", "title": "KTAV-LD", "text": "KTAV-LD\n\nKTAV-LD (digital channel 46, virtual channel 35) is a low-power station licensed to Altadena that broadcasts as an affiliate of the Spanish-language Christian network Almavision.\n\nThe station used to broadcast as KTAV-LP on analog channel 69, until October 28, 2011, when the Federal Communications Commission authorized the station to convert to digital (as KTAV-LD) and move to channel 46.\n\nKTAV-LD originally went on the air on September 23, 1992 as translator K31DN on channel 31.\nOn April 15, 1998, the station moved to channel 68 as translator K68FR. On March 23, 2001, the station moved to channel 24 as translator K24FG.\n"}
{"id": "2080918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080918", "title": "Haroutioun Hovanes Chakmakjian", "text": "Haroutioun Hovanes Chakmakjian\n\nHaroutioun Hovanes Chakmakjian (20 October 1878, in Adana, Ottoman Empire − 22 May 1973, in Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts, United States) was a published scientist, as well as the father of American composer Alan Hovhaness. A professor of chemistry at Tufts University, Chakmakjian wrote numerous books in several languages. His notable publications included an English-Armenian dictionary which is believed to be the first of its kind in the modern Armenian language. The dictionary has become an enduring work of Armenian lexicography and remains regularly used today. His other publications included a 700-page history of Armenia.\n\nChakmakjian was of Armenian background and was born in Adana, Ottoman Empire on 20 October 1878. His surname means \"gunsmith\", a name given to one of his ancestors who had been skilled in creating finely engraved and decorated firearms. Born in 1878, his parents were Hovanes L. Chakmakjian and Cohar Garabed Janbazian, both farmers. He studied at the Abcarian (Apcarian) High School in Adana, then studied for just over one year at the Antoura French Missionary College in Beirut.\n\nChakmakjian began his career as a teacher and taught in Gesaria (Kayseri today) and in Giresun. He taught in Beirut in the early years of the 20th century, during the time of one of the early Ottoman massacres of Armenians. Rather than return to his birthplace of Adana, he decided to take a ship to France. He subsequently moved to Stamford, Connecticut and eventually settled in Boston, Massachusetts, where he studied at Harvard University from fall 1905 to spring 1908, then entered Harvard again in February 1912, obtaining an A.B. degree in June 1913 (as a member of the class of 1909). Chakmakjian also served as the editor of the Hairenik newspaper from 1909 to 1911.\n\nHe later served as a professor of chemistry and biochemistry at Tufts College, and was affiliated with the Tufts Medical School on Huntington Avenue in Boston. He retired from the Medical School in 1949. Thereafter, in 1955, Chakmakjian retired from Tufts University as a Professor emeritus.\n\nOn May 28, 1910, in Somerville, Massachusetts, he married Madeleine Scott (d. October 3, 1930), an American woman of Scottish and English descent who had graduated from Wellesley College. They had one son, Alan Hovhannes, a future composer who reached international fame, who was born on 8 March 1911.\n\nChakmakjian died of bronchopneumonia in Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts on May 22, 1973, aged 94.\n\nIn addition to his scientific work, in 1908 Chakmakjian became the chief-editor for \"The Hairenik\" newspaper while studying at Harvard, remaining in that position until February 1912. He also authored \"A Comprehensive Dictionary English-Armenian\" of approximately 1,600 pages published under the name H. H. Chakmakjian, printed in 1922 by Yeran Press in Boston. The dictionary was republished several times till that date. Other scholarly articles included topics related to chemistry, biochemistry, and the Armenian language. Among his other publications was a book of about 700 pages on the history of Armenia published in 1917. He was a member of the American Chemical Society, was a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and a member of the New England Association of Chemistry Teachers.\n\nSome of Chakmakjian's publications include:\n"}
{"id": "2080941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080941", "title": "ChesterBus", "text": "ChesterBus\n\nChesterBus was an English municipal bus company operating services in Cheshire. It was owned by the Chester City Council.\n\nChester City Transport commenced operating bus services in Chester in 1930. It was operated as part of Chester City Council. To comply with the Transport Act 1985, the bus operation was transferred to a separate company in 1986. It continued to trade as Chester City Transport until rebranded as ChesterBus in April 2005.\n\nIn July 2006, Chester City Council placed the business up for sale.\n\nIn October 2006, Arriva North West & Wales registered a network of services to commence in January 2007, which duplicated a number of ChesterBus's routes. On 11 October 2006, Chester City Council commenced an action in the High Court against Arriva, claiming that the registrations were anti-competitive under the Competition Act 1998, and asking for an injunction requiring Arriva to de-register them. In December, the registrations were cancelled though revised registrations for the 1/1A and 15 were made in January 2007.\n\nThe claim centred on the allegation that Arriva were abusing a dominant position, but in a judgement dated 15 June 2007, it was held that Arriva had not been demonstrated to hold a dominant position, and the claim was therefore dismissed.\n\nOn 19 June 2007, ChesterBus was sold to First Chester & The Wirral with 84 buses.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080956", "title": "Raid on Deerfield", "text": "Raid on Deerfield\n\nThe 1704 Raid on Deerfield (also known as the Deerfield Massacre) occurred during Queen Anne's War on February 29 when French and Native American forces under the command of Jean-Baptiste Hertel de Rouville attacked the English frontier settlement at Deerfield, Massachusetts, just before dawn. They burned part of the town and killed 47 villagers. The raiders left with 112 settlers as captives, whom they took overland the nearly 300 miles to Montreal. Some died or were murdered along the way, and 60 were later ransomed by family and community. Others were adopted by Mohawk families and became assimilated into the tribe. In this period, the English and their Indian allies were involved in similar raids against French villages along the northern area between the spheres of influence. \n\nTypical of the small-scale frontier conflict in Queen Anne's War, the French-led raid relied on a coalition of French soldiers and a variety of about 300 Indian warriors, mostly Abenaki but including a number of Pocumtuc who had once lived in the Deerfield area. Given the diversity of personnel, motivations, and material objectives, the raiders did not achieve full surprise when they entered the palisaded village. The defenders of some fortified houses in the village successfully held off the raiders until arriving reinforcements prompted their retreat. However, the raid was a clear victory for the French coalition that aimed to take captives and unsettle English colonial frontier society. More than 100 captives were taken, and about 40 percent of the village houses were destroyed.\n\nAlthough predicted because of existing tensions during the war, the raid shocked New England colonists. Conflict increased with the French and their Native American allies. Frontier settlements took actions to fortify their towns and prepare for war. The raid has been immortalized as a part of the early American frontier story, principally due to the published account by a prominent captive, the Rev. John Williams. He and much of his family were taken on the long overland journey to Canada. His young daughter Eunice was adopted by a Mohawk family; she became assimilated and married a Mohawk man. Williams' account, \"The Redeemed Captive\", was published in 1707 and was widely popular in the colonies.\n\nWhen European colonists began in the 17th century to settle in the middle reaches of the Connecticut River valley (where it presently flows through the state of Massachusetts), the area was inhabited by the Algonquian-speaking Pocomtuc nation. In the early 1660s, the Pocumtuc were shattered as a nation due to conflict with the aggressive Mohawk, one of the Five Nations of the Iroquois, who were located in eastern New York and raided into New England. They also had suffered population losses due to chronic infectious disease carried by traders and colonists, to which the latter two groups had some acquired immunity. \n\nIn 1665 villagers from the eastern Massachusetts town of Dedham were given a grant in the area, and acquired land titles of uncertain legality from a variety of Pocumtuc individuals. They established a village in the early 1670s, at first called Pocumtuck, but later Deerfield. Located in a relatively isolated position in the Massachusetts colony, on the edge of English settlement, Deerfield became a target of frontier conflict between the French and English and their differing Native American allies.\n\nThe colonial outpost was a traditional New England subsistence farming community. The majority of Deerfield's settlers were young families who had moved west in the search of land. The labor of the wives and other women was essential to the survival of the settlement and its male inhabitants.\n\nBy 1675 the village had grown to about 200 individuals. In that year, conflict between English colonists and Indians in southern New England erupted into what is now known as King Philip's War. The war involved all of the New England colonies, and the English destroyed or severely decimated and pacified most of its Indian nations. There were also many casualties among the New England colonists.\n\nDeerfield was evacuated in September 1675 after a coordinated series of Native American attacks, culminating in the Battle of Bloody Brook, resulted in the death of about half the village's adult males. The abandoned village, one of several in the Connecticut River valley abandoned by the English, was briefly reoccupied by the warring Indians. The colonists regrouped, and in 1676 a force of mostly local colonists slaughtered an Indian camp at a site then called \"Peskeompscut\". It is now called Turners Falls, after William Turner, an English leader who was slain in the action.\nOngoing raids by the Mohawk forced many of the remaining Indians to retreat north to French-controlled Canada or to the west. Those going west joined other tribes that had formed a peace of sorts with the authorities in the eastern area of the Province of New York. During King William's War (1688–1697), Deerfield was not subjected to major attacks, but 12 residents were killed in a series of ambushes and other incidents. Supposedly friendly Indians who were recognized as Pocumtuc were recorded as passing through the area. Some claimed to have participated in attacks on other frontier communities.\n\nEnglish attacks on the frontier communities of what is now southern Maine in the Northeast Coast Campaign of 1703 again put Deerfield residents on the alert, as they feared retaliation. In response to their own losses in the Campaign, the French and native allies attacked Deerfield.\n\nThe town's palisade, constructed during King William's War, had been rehabilitated and expanded. In August of that year, the local militia commander called out the militia after he received intelligence of \"a party of French & Indians from Canada\" who were \"expected every hour to make some attaque on ye towns upon Connecticut River\". However, nothing happened until October, when two men were taken from a pasture outside the palisade. Militia were sent to guard the town in response, but these returned to their homes with the advent of winter, which was generally not the period for warfare.\n\nMinor raids against other communities convinced Governor Joseph Dudley to send 20 men to garrison Deerfield in February. These men, minimally trained militia from other nearby communities, had arrived by the 24th, making for somewhat cramped accommodations within the town's palisade on the night of February 28. In addition to these men, the townspeople mustered about 70 men of fighting age; these forces were all under the command of Captain Jonathan Wells.\n\nThe Connecticut River valley had been identified as a potential raiding target by authorities in New France as early as 1702. The forces for the raid had begun gathering near Montreal as early as May 1703, as reported with reasonable accuracy in English intelligence reports. However, two incidents delayed their execution of the raid. The first was a rumor that English warships were on the Saint Lawrence River, and the French sent a significant Indian force to Quebec for its defense. The second was the detachment of some troops for operations in Maine; critically, these forces included Jean-Baptiste Hertel de Rouville, who was intended to lead the raid on Deerfield. In addition, his raid against Wells raised the frontier alarms at Deerfield. Hertel de Rouville did not return to Montreal until the fall of 1703.\n\nThe force assembled at Chambly, just south of Montreal, numbered about 250. It was a diverse collection of men. The 48 ethnic Frenchmen, were made up of Canadien militia and recruits from the troupes de la marine, including four of Hertel de Rouville's brothers. Several men among the French leadership had more than 20 years' experience in wilderness warfare. The Indian contingent included 200 Abenaki, Iroquois (likely Mohawk), Wyandot, and Pocumtuc, some of whom sought revenge for incidents by whites that had taken place years earlier. As the party moved south toward Deerfield in January and February 1704, this force was joined by another 30 to 40 Pennacook warriors led by the sachem Wattanummon, raising the troop size to nearly 300 by the time it reached the Deerfield area in late February.\n\nThe expedition's departure was not a secret. In January 1704, Iroquois warned New York's Indian agent Pieter Schuyler of possible action by the French and their allies. He notified Governor Dudley and Connecticut's Governor Winthrop; they received further warnings in mid-February, although none was specific about the target.\n\nThe raiders left most of their equipment and supplies 25 to 30 miles (40 to 48 kilometers) north of the village before establishing a cold camp about from Deerfield on February 28, 1704. From this vantage point, they observed the villagers as they prepared for the night. Since the villagers had been alerted to the possibility of a raid, they all took refuge within the palisade, and a guard was posted.\n\nThe raiders had noticed that snow drifts extended to the top of the palisade; this simplified their entry into the fortifications just before dawn on February 29. They carefully approached the village, stopping periodically so that the sentry might confuse the noises they made with more natural sounds. A few men climbed over the palisade via the snow drifts and opened the north gate to admit the rest. Primary sources vary on the degree of alertness of the village guard that night; one account claims he fell asleep, while another claims that he discharged his weapon to raise the alarm when the attack began, but that it was not heard by many people. As the Reverend John Williams later recounted, \"with horrid shouting and yelling\", the raiders launched their attack \"like a flood upon us\".\n\nThe raiders' attack probably did not go exactly as they had intended. In attacks on Schenectady, New York and Durham, New Hampshire in the 1690s (both of which included Hertel de Rouville's father), the raiders had simultaneously attacked all of the houses. They did not do so at Deerfield. Historians Haefeli and Sweeney theorize that the failure to launch a coordinated assault was caused by the wide diversity within the attacking force.\nThe raiders swept into the village, and began attacking individual houses. Reverend Williams' house was among the first to be raided; Williams' life was spared when his gunshot misfired, and he was taken prisoner. Two of his children and a servant were slain; the rest of his family and his other servant were also taken prisoner. Similar scenarios occurred in many of the other houses. The residents of Benoni Stebbins' house, which was not among the ones attacked early, resisted the raiders' attacks, which lasted until well after daylight. A second house, near the northwestern corner of the palisade, was also successfully defended. The raiders moved through the village, herding their prisoners to an area just north of the town, rifling houses for items of value, and setting a number of them on fire.\n\nAs the morning progressed, some of the raiders began moving north with their prisoners, but paused about a mile north of the town to wait for those who had not yet finished in the village. The men in the Stebbins house kept the battle up for two hours; they were on the verge of surrendering when reinforcements arrived. Early in the raid, young John Sheldon managed to escape over the palisade and began making his way to nearby Hadley to raise the alarm. The fires from the burning houses had been spotted, and \"thirty men from Hadley and Hatfield\" rushed to Deerfield. Their arrival prompted the remaining raiders to flee; some abandoned their weapons and other supplies in the rush.\n\nThe sudden departure of the raiders and the arrival of reinforcements raised the spirits of the beleaguered survivors. About 20 Deerfield men joined the Hadley men in chasing after the fleeing raiders. The English and the raiders skirmished in the meadows just north of the village, where the English reported \"killing and wounding many of them\". The English soon ran into an ambush set up by the raiders who had left the village earlier. Of the 50 or so men who gave chase, nine were killed and several more were wounded. After the ambush they retreated to the village, and the raiders headed north with their prisoners.\n\nAs the alarm spread to the south, reinforcements continued to arrive in the village. By midnight, 80 men from Northampton and Springfield had arrived, and men from Connecticut swelled the force to 250 by the end of the next day. After debating over what action to take, they decided that the difficulties of pursuit were not worth the risks. Leaving a strong garrison in the village, most of the militia returned to their homes.\n\nThe raiders destroyed 17 of the village's 41 homes, and looted many of the others. Of the 291 people in Deerfield on the night of the attack, only 126 remained in town the next day. They killed 44 residents of Deerfield: 10 men, 9 women, and 25 children, five garrison soldiers, and seven Hadley men. Of those who died inside the village, 15 died of fire-related causes; most of the rest were killed by edged or blunt weapons. The raid's casualties were dictated by the raiders' goals to intimidate the village and to take valuable captives to French Canada. A large portion of the slain were infant children, who were not likely to have survived the trip to Canada. The raiders took 109 villagers captive; this represented forty per cent of the village population. They also took captive three Frenchmen who had been living among the villagers.\n\nThe raiders also suffered losses, although reports vary. New France's Governor-General Philippe de Rigaud Vaudreuil reported the expedition only lost 11 men, and 22 were wounded, including Hertel de Rouville and one of his brothers. John Williams heard from French soldiers during his captivity that more than 40 French and Indian soldiers were lost; Haefeli and Sweeney believe the lower French figures are more credible, especially when compared to casualties incurred in other raids. A majority of the captives taken were women and children, as the French and Indian captors considered them more likely than adult males to successfully assimilate into native communities and a new life in French Canada.\n\nFor the 109 English captives, the raid was only the beginning of their troubles. The raiders intended to take them to Canada, a journey, in the middle of winter. Many of the captives were ill-prepared for this, and the raiders were short on provisions. The raiders consequently engaged in a common practice: they killed those captives when it was clear they were unable to keep up. Williams commented on the savage cruelty of the Indian raiders; although most killings were \"not random or wanton\", none of those killed would have \"needed to\" be killed had they not been taken in the first place. Most (though not all) of the slain were the slow and vulnerable who could not keep up with the party and would likely have died less quickly en route. Only 89 of the captives survived the ordeal. Survival chances correlated with age and gender: infants and young children fared the worst, and older children and teenagers (all 21 of whom survived the ordeal) fared the best. Adult men fared better than adult women, especially pregnant women, and those with small children.\nIn the first few days several of the captives escaped. Hertel de Rouville instructed Reverend Williams to inform the others that recaptured escapees would be tortured; there were no further escapes. (The threat was not an empty one — it was known to have happened on other raids.) The French leader's troubles were not only with his captives. The Indians had some disagreements among themselves concerning the disposition of the captives, which at times threatened to come to blows. A council held on the third day resolved these disagreements sufficiently that the trek could continue.\nAccording to John Williams' account of his captivity, most of the party traveled up the frozen Connecticut River, then up the Wells River and down the Winooski River to Lake Champlain. From there they made their way to Chambly, at which point most of the force dispersed. The captives accompanied their captors to their respective villages. Williams' wife Eunice, weak after having given birth just six weeks earlier, was one of the first to be killed during the trek; her body was recovered and reburied in the Deerfield cemetery.\n\nCalls went out from the governors of the northern colonies for action against the French colonies. Governor Dudley wrote that \"the destruction of Quebeck and Port Royal [would] put all the Navall stores into Her Majesty's hands, and forever make an end of an Indian War\", the frontier between Deerfield and Wells was fortified by upwards of 2,000 men, and the bounty for Indian scalps was more than doubled, from £40 to £100. Dudley promptly organized a retaliatory raid against Acadia (present-day Nova Scotia). In the summer of 1704, New Englanders under the leadership of Benjamin Church raided Acadian villages at Pentagouet (present-day Castine, Maine), Passamaquoddy Bay (present-day St. Stephen, New Brunswick), Grand Pré, Pisiquid, and Beaubassin (all in present-day Nova Scotia). Church's instructions included the taking of prisoners to exchange for those taken at Deerfield, and specifically forbade him to attack the fortified capital, Port Royal.\n\nDeerfield and other communities collected funds to ransom the captives. French authorities and colonists also worked to extricate the captives from their Indian captors. Within a year's time, most of the captives were in French hands, a product of frontier commerce in humans that was fairly common at the time on both sides. The French and converted Indians worked to convert their captives to Roman Catholicism, with modest success. While adult captives proved fairly resistant to proselytizing, children were more receptive or likely to accept conversion under duress.\n\nSome of the younger captives, however, were not ransomed, as they were adopted into the tribes. Such was the case with Williams' daughter Eunice, who was eight years old when captured. She became thoroughly assimilated in her Mohawk family, and married a Mohawk man when she was 16. She did not see her family of origin again until much later and always returned to Kahnawake. Other captives also remained by choice in Canadian and Native communities such as Kahnawake for the rest of their lives. Negotiations for the release and exchange of captives began in late 1704, and continued until late 1706. They became entangled in unrelated issues (like the English capture of French privateer Pierre Maisonnat dit Baptiste), and larger concerns, including the possibility of a wider-ranging treaty of neutrality between the French and English colonies. Mediated in part by Deerfield residents John Sheldon and John Wells, some captives (including Noel Doiron) were returned to Boston in August 1706. Governor Dudley, who needed the successful return of the captives for political reason, then released the French captives, including Baptiste; the remaining captives who chose to return were back in Boston by November 1706.\n\nMany of the younger captives were adopted into the Indian tribes or French Canadian society. Thirty six Deerfield captives, mostly children and teenagers at the time of the raid, remained permanently. Those who stayed were not compelled by force, but rather by newly formed religious ties and family bonds. Captive experience was largely dictated by gender as well as age. Young women most easily and readily assimilated into Indian and French Canadian societies. Nine girls remained as opposed to only five boys. These choices reflect the larger frontier pattern of incorporation of young women into Indian and Canadian society. These young women remained, not because of compulsion, fascination with the outdoor adventure, or the strangeness of life in a foreign society, but because they transitioned into established lives in new communities and formed bonds of family, religion, and language. In fact, more than half of young female captives who remained settled in Montreal where \"the lives of these former Deerfield residents differed very little in their broad outlines from their former neighbors\". Whether in New France or in Deerfield these women generally were part of frontier agricultural communities where they tended to marry in their early twenties and have six or seven children. Other female captives remained in Native communities such as Kahnawake. These women remained because of bonds of religion and family. While European males castigated the \"slavery\" of Indian women, captive women from this time commonly chose to remain in Native society rather than return to colonial English settlements.\n\nJohn Williams wrote a captivity narrative, \"The Redeemed Captive Returning to Zion\", about his experience, which was published in 1707. Williams' narrative was published during ongoing ransom negotiations and pressed for greater activity to return the Deerfield captives. Written with assistance from prominent Boston Puritan minister Reverend Cotton Mather, the book framed the raid, captivity, and border relations with the French and Indians in terms of providential history and God’s purpose for Puritans. The work was widely distributed in the 18th and 19th centuries, and continues to be published today (see Further Reading below). Williams' work was one of the reasons this raid, unlike similar others of the time, was remembered and became an element in the American frontier story. Williams' work transformed the captivity narrative into a celebration of individual heroism and the triumph of Protestant values against savage and \"Popish\" enemies. The last known survivor of the raid was ironically Williams daughter Eunice Kanenstenhawi Williams, also known as Marguerite Kanenstenhawi Arosen, (17 September 1696 Deerfield, Massachusetts-26 November 1785 Kahnawake, Quebec, Canada)\n\nDeerfield holds a \"special place in American history\". As Mary Rowlandson's popular captivity narrative \"The Sovereignty and Goodness of God\" did a generation earlier, the sensational tale stressed reliance on God's mercy and \"kept alive the spirit of the Puritan mission\" in eighteenth century New England. Williams' account heightened tensions between English settlers and Native Americans and their French allies and led to more war preparedness among settler communities.\n\nThe events at Deerfield were not commonly described as a massacre until the 19th century. Reverend John Taylor's 1804 centennial memorial sermon first termed the events at Deerfield a \"massacre\". Previous eighteenth-century accounts emphasized the physical destruction and described the raid as \"the assault on\", \"the destruction of\", or \"mischief at\" Deerfield. Viewing the raid as a \"massacre\", 19th century New Englanders began to remember the attack as part of the larger narrative and celebration of American frontier spirit. Persisting into the twentieth century, American historical memory has tended to view Deerfield in line with Frederick Turner's Frontier Thesis as a singular Indian attack against a community of individualistic frontiersmen. Re-popularized and exposed to a national audience in the mid-twentieth century with the establishment of Historic Deerfield, the raid was contextualized in a celebration of exceptional American individual ambition. This view has served as a partial justification for the removal of Native Americans and has obscured both the larger patterns of border conflict and tensions and the family based structure of Deerfield and similar marginal settlements. Although popularly remembered as a tale of the triumph of rugged Protestant male individualism, the raid is better understood not along the lines of Turner's thesis, but as an account of the strong factors of community life and cross-cultural interaction in border communities.\n\nAn 1875 legend recounts the attack as an attempt by the French to regain a bell, supposedly destined for Quebec, but pirated and sold to Deerfield. The legend continues that this was a \"historical fact known to almost all school children\". However, the story, which is a common Kahnawake tale, was refuted as early as 1882 and does not appear to have significantly affected American perception of the raid.\n\nCanadians and native Americans who are less influenced by Williams' narrative and Turner's thesis, have given the raid a more ambivalent place in memory. Canadians view the raid not as a massacre and mass abduction but as a successful local application of guerilla techniques in the broader context of international war and stress the successful integration of hundreds of captives taken in similar conflicts during Queen Anne's War. Similarly, most Native American records justify the action in a larger military and cultural context and remain largely unconcerned with the particular event.\n\nA portion of the original village of Deerfield has been preserved as a living history museum, Historic Deerfield; among its relics is a door bearing tomahawk marks from the 1704 raid. The raid is commemorated there on the weekend closest to February 29. Moving towards a more inclusive Historic Deerfield's yearly reenactment and educational programs treat \"massacre\" as a \"dirty word\" and stress Deerfield as a place to study cultural interaction and difference at society's borders.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080957", "title": "Robert Beddard", "text": "Robert Beddard\n\nDr. Robert Anthony Beddard was, until 2006, the Cowen Fellow and Tutor in Modern History, Oriel College, Oxford. \nHe holds a master's degree (MA), a Doctorate (Doctor of Philosophy), a Cambridge Master's (MA) and a Bachelor's (BA) from London. \nHe was a fellow Queens' College, Cambridge from 1965 to 1968.\nHe is a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society.\nHis research interests lie in 17th century British politics and religion, and include relations between Stuart England and Rome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080959", "title": "The Simpsons Spin-Off Showcase", "text": "The Simpsons Spin-Off Showcase\n\n\"The Simpsons Spin-Off Showcase\" is the twenty-fourth episode of the eighth season of \"The Simpsons\". It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on May 11, 1997. The episode centers on fictional pilot episodes of non-existent television series derived from \"The Simpsons\", and is a parody of the tendency of networks to spin off characters from a hit series. As such it includes references to many different TV series. The first fictional spin-off is \"Chief Wiggum P.I.\", a cop-dramedy featuring Chief Wiggum and Seymour Skinner. The second is \"The Love-matic Grampa\", a sitcom featuring Moe Szyslak who receives dating advice from Abraham Simpson, whose ghost is possessing a love testing machine. The final segment is \"The Simpson Family Smile-Time Variety Hour\", a variety show featuring the Simpson family except for Lisa, who has been replaced.\n\nThe episode was written by David S. Cohen, Dan Greaney and Steve Tompkins, with Ken Keeler coming up with the story and the general idea of intentionally bad writing. It was directed by Neil Affleck, and Tim Conway, Gailard Sartain and Phil Hartman guest-starred. \n\nThe producers were initially uneasy about the episode, as they feared that the purposely bad writing would be mistaken for actual bad writing. The episode, however, now appears on several lists of the most popular \"Simpsons\" episodes.\n\nTroy McClure hosts a television special from the \"Museum of TV and Television\" introducing three spin-off productions, created using characters from \"The Simpsons\". The Fox network has only three programmes — \"The Simpsons\", \"The X Files\" and \"Melrose Place\" — prepared for the next broadcasting season, and so commissions the producers of \"The Simpsons\" to create thirty-five new shows to fill the remainder of the lineup. Unable to handle such a workload, the producers create only three new shows.\n\nChief Wiggum, P.I. is a crime-dramedy spin-off and a parody of \"Magnum, P.I.\", which follows Chief Wiggum, Ralph and Seymour Skinner. Chief Wiggum and his son Ralph move to New Orleans with Seymour Skinner as Wiggum's sidekick. Wiggum has proclaimed that he will \"clean up the city\" of New Orleans, but it does not take long before he meets his nemesis, Big Daddy, who warns Wiggum to stay out of his business. Soon after, Ralph disappears and Wiggum finds Big Daddy's calling card left behind. Wiggum manages to track Big Daddy's ransom call to the Mardi Gras, where he briefly runs into the Simpson family, and the two chase each other to Big Daddy's mansion in the New Orleans bayou (in reality the Louisiana governor's mansion which Big Daddy has managed to steal). Chief Wiggum then threatens Big Daddy with a gun, but Big Daddy counters by tossing Ralph at his father, then jumping out the window and swimming away (at an extremely slow speed, due to his weight). Wiggum ultimately lets the villain escape, feeling that he will meet him again \"each and every week,\" a riff on serialized, weekly television dramas.\n\nThe Love-matic Grampa is a sitcom about Moe's love life, a parody of \"My Mother the Car\". He receives advice from the ghost of Abraham Simpson, who was crushed by a store shelf containing cans of figs that toppled on him and subsequently \"while travelling up toward Heaven...got lost along the way\" and now possesses Moe's love tester machine. Moe ends up getting a date he meets at the bar. On Grampa's advice he takes his date out to a French restaurant and hides the Love Tester in the bathroom so he can get advice while at the restaurant. After Kearney, Dolph and Jimbo whack the machine because it said they were gay, it malfunctions and advises Moe to tell his date that \"her rump's as big as the Queen's, and twice as fragrant.\" Moe returns with a bowl of snails dumped on his head and his dependence on the machine is revealed, so he confesses to receiving advice. His date is actually happy when she hears this, flattered that Moe would go to all that trouble for her. Grampa asks to be introduced to an attractive payphone in front of the restaurant, much to the mirth of Moe and his date.\n\nThe Simpson Family Smile-Time Variety Hour is a variety show featuring various songs and sketches in a parody of \"The Brady Bunch Hour\" and \"Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In\". It features Homer, Marge, Bart, and Maggie. Lisa refuses to participate, but is replaced by an attractive, teenaged blonde bombshell. After the introduction there is a sketch, where the family are portrayed as beavers living in a dam with Tim Conway as a skunk and Homer's boss. The show ends with a medley of songs about candy sung by the family, Jasper Beardley and Waylon Smithers.\n\nTroy ends the special with a look at the upcoming season of \"The Simpsons\", filled with ridiculous plot twists, such as Homer turning Lisa into a frog using magical powers, the discovery of Bart's two long-lost identical twin brothers (one African-American, the other a cowboy), Selma marrying Lenny, Bumblebee Man, and Itchy (in succession), and Homer meeting an alien named Ozmodiar whom only he can see.\n\nKen Keeler came up with the idea for the episode from the one sentence statement: \"Let's do spin-offs\". His idea was to use intentionally bad writing and \"crazy plots\", which underlines their critique of spin-offs in general. After he had pitched the idea it was decided that \"it was an idea that ought to work pretty well\" and production went ahead. Creator Matt Groening was uneasy about the idea, feeling that it could be mistranslated as actually bad sitcom writing. He also did not like the idea of breaking the fourth wall and the concept of saying that the Simpsons were just actors in a television show. The idea was later explored in the season 11 episode \"Behind the Laughter\". One of the \"crazy\" ideas was the inclusion of the character of Ozmodiar, who was originally included in the script for an earlier episode but was considered too ridiculous for the time. When this episode came along the character seemed to fit with the story and was included. Even though Keeler came up with the story, David S. Cohen, Dan Greaney and Steve Tompkins wrote the scripts for the three segments. Cohen wrote \"Chief Wiggum P.I.\", Greaney wrote \"Love-matic Grampa\" and Tompkins wrote \"The Simpson Family Smile-Time Variety Hour\".\n\nThe episode demanded a different approach to directing than a usual \"The Simpsons\" episode. Director Neil Affleck had to animate each segment so that it fit the style of the show it parodied. \"The Love-matic Grampa\" segment for instance emulates a three camera setup, as is normally used in sitcoms.\n\nThree guest stars appear in the episode; Phil Hartman as Troy McClure, Tim Conway as himself and Gailard Sartain as Big Daddy. McClure is used as a host of the episode, something he had previously done in the episode \"The Simpsons 138th Episode Spectacular\". Conway appears as himself. Conway, a comic veteran, is known for his work on \"The Carol Burnett Show\", which has a similar format to \"The Simpson Family Smile-Time Variety Hour\". Due to Lisa being substituted for an older teenager (voiced by Pamela Hayden) in the third segment, Yeardley Smith has only one line in the entire episode.\n\nOver the course of the show, the staff have considered producing several spin-off television series and films, based on \"The Simpsons\". In 1994, Matt Groening pitched a live-action spin-off from \"The Simpsons\" that centered on Krusty the Clown and would star Dan Castellaneta in the role, reprising the character from \"The Simpsons\". He and Michael Weithorn wrote a pilot script where Krusty moved to Los Angeles and got his own talk show. A recurring joke throughout the script was that Krusty lived in a house on wooden stilts which were continuously being gnawed by beavers. Eventually, the contract negotiations fell apart and Groening decided to stop work on the project.\n\n\"22 Short Films About Springfield\" sparked the idea amongst the staff for a spin-off series entitled \"Tales from Springfield\". The proposed show would focus on the town in general, rather than the Simpson family. Every week would be a different scenario: three short stories, an adventure with young Homer or a story about a background character that was not tied into the Simpson family at all. The idea never came to anything, as Groening realized that the staff did not have the manpower to produce another show as well as \"The Simpsons\". The staff believe it is something that they would still be interested in doing, and that it \"could happen someday.\"\n\nGroening also expressed a wish to make \"Simpstasia\", a parody of \"Fantasia\", but it was never produced, partly because it would have been too difficult to write a feature-length script, although a similar idea did appear in the episode Itchy and scratchy land Before his murder, Phil Hartman had said he had wished to make a live-action Troy McClure film, and several of the show's staff had expressed a desire to help create it. Groening later told \"Empire\" that the idea never \"got further than enthusiasm\", but \"would have been really fun\".\n\nThe entire episode is a satire of unoriginal, poor television writing and references and parodies many television series. When Troy McClure mentions that Fox can only fill up three slots for the next season, the three series are \"Melrose Place\", \"The X-Files\" and \"The Simpsons\" itself. In the museum of television, Troy walks by posters of spin-offs, such as \"The Ropers\" (spun off from \"Three's Company\"), \"Laverne & Shirley\" (spun off from \"Happy Days\"), \"Rhoda\", a show that Julie Kavner, the voice of Marge, once starred in, (spun off from \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\") and \"Fish\" (spun off from \"Barney Miller\"), to demonstrate the power of spin-offs. Troy walks by a poster of \"The Jeffersons\" (a spin-off of \"All in the Family\") twice, because the writers could not think of any more spin-offs.\n\"Chief Wiggum, P.I.\" is a parody of police-dramas, such as \"Miami Vice\", \"Magnum, P.I.\" and \"Starsky and Hutch\". Skinner emulates Don Johnson from \"Miami Vice\" in order to look scruffier. The character of Big Daddy is based on Dr. John, who comes from New Orleans. The chef in the restaurant resembles Paul Prudhomme.\n\n\"The Love-matic Grampa\" is a parody of fantasy sitcoms such as \"Mister Ed\", \"I Dream of Jeannie\" and \"Bewitched\" as well as having similarities to \"My Mother the Car\". The Love-matic Grampa machine singing \"Daisy Bell\" in a distorted manner when its electrical circuits are failing is a reference to HAL from the 1968 film \"\". Grampa also references \"All Quiet on the Western Front\", when Moe says he \"wrote the book on love\". Moe's date, Betty, looks somewhat like Tress MacNeille, the actress who voiced her.\n\n\"The Simpson Family Smile-Time Variety Hour\" is a parody of the 1960s and 1970s live variety shows. Mainly it is a parody of \"The Brady Bunch Hour\", a short-lived spin-off of the 1970s sitcom \"The Brady Bunch\". The replacement of Lisa in the third segment with another girl reflects the recasting of Jan Brady in the \"Brady Bunch Hour\" when Eve Plumb refused to participate. The Simpson family is made to look like \"The Partridge Family\". Also, the segment holds numerous references to \"Laugh-In\". Kent Brockman introduces the show from inside a broadcast booth in a style similar to \"Laugh-In\", there is a joke wall similar to the one in \"Laugh-In\" where The Sea Captain opens a porthole. There is also a \"Laugh-In\"-like montage wherein other characters comment on the skit itself. When Hans Moleman reads a poem, it is based on Henry Gibson reading a poem on \"Laugh-In\". Other shows parodied during the variety show include \"The Sonny and Cher Comedy Hour\", and \"The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour\".\n\nThe songs parodied during the third segment are:\n\nIn the planned future for the show, Homer meets a green space alien named Ozmodiar that only he can see. This is a reference to The Great Gazoo, a character added into some of the final episodes of \"The Flintstones\".\n\nIn its original American broadcast, \"The Simpsons Spin-Off Showcase\" finished 61st place in the weekly ratings for the week of May 5–May 11, 1997 with a Nielsen rating of 7.3. It was the seventh-highest-rated show on the Fox network that week. Even though Troy mentions that \"The Simpsons\", \"Melrose Place\", and \"The X-Files\" are the only shows worth a slot in the next season's lineup, three other Fox shows actually did better than \"The Simpsons\" that week. These were \"Beverly Hills, 90210\", \"King of the Hill\", and \"Married... with Children\".\n\nMatt Groening feared that the fans would interpret the episode in a negative light and was uneasy about the episode when it was in production. He later went on to say that the episode \"turned out great\". \n\nThe writers of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\" Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood called it, \"A very clever spin on the alternates offered by the Treehouse of Horrors run. Each of the spin-offs is very clever in its own way.\" It has also appeared as one of the favorite episodes on a number of \"best of\" lists. \"Entertainment Weekly\" placed the episode 19th in their top 25 Simpsons episode list. \n\nIn an interview for \"Star-News\", \"The Simpsons\" writer Don Payne revealed that the episode was in his personal top six of the best \"The Simpsons\" episodes. \n\nAdditionally, Gary Mullinax, a staff writer for \"The News Journal\", picked the episode as part of his top-ten list.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080960", "title": "F minor", "text": "F minor\n\nF minor is a minor scale based on F, consisting of the pitches F, G, A, B, C, D, and E. Its key signature consists of four flats. Its relative major is A-flat major and its parallel major is F major. Its enharmonic equivalent, E-sharp minor, has eight sharps, including the double sharp F, which makes it rarely used.\n\nThe F natural minor scale is:\n\n\\override Score.TimeSignature #'stencil = ##f\n\\relative c' {\n</score>\n\nChanges needed for the melodic and harmonic versions of the scale are written in with accidentals as necessary. The F harmonic minor and melodic minor scales are:\n\n\\override Score.TimeSignature #'stencil = ##f\n\\relative c' {\n</score>\n\n\\override Score.TimeSignature #'stencil = ##f\n\\relative c' {\n</score>\n\nFamous pieces in the key of F minor include Beethoven's \"Appassionata Sonata\", Chopin's Piano Concerto No. 2, Haydn's Symphony No. 49, \"La Passione\" and Tchaikovsky’s Symphony No. 4.\n\nGlenn Gould once said if he could be any key, he would be F minor, because \"it's rather dour, halfway between complex and stable, between upright and lascivious, between gray and highly tinted... There is a certain obliqueness.\"\n\nHelmholtz once described F minor as harrowing and melancholy. Schubart described this key as \"Deep depression, funereal lament, groans of misery and longing for the grave\". \n\nE-sharp minor is a theoretical key based on the musical note E and consisting of the pitches E, F, G, A, B, C and D. Its key signature has six sharps and one double sharp (or eight sharps).\n\nThe E-sharp natural minor scale is:\n\n\\override Score.TimeSignature #'stencil = ##f\n\\relative c' {\n</score>\n\nChanges needed for the melodic and harmonic versions of the scale are written in with accidentals as necessary. The E-sharp harmonic minor and melodic minor scales are:\n\n\\override Score.TimeSignature #'stencil = ##f\n\\relative c' {\n</score>\n\n\\override Score.TimeSignature #'stencil = ##f\n\\relative c' {\n</score>\n\nIts relative major is G-sharp major, which is usually replaced by A-flat major. Its parallel major, E-sharp major, is usually replaced by F major, due to the presence of 4 double-sharps in the E-sharp major scale causing it to be one of the more impractical key signatures in music to use. Although E-sharp minor is usually notated as F minor, it could be used on a local level, such as bars 17 to 22 in Johann Sebastian Bach's \"The Well-Tempered Clavier\", Book 1, Prelude and Fugue No. 3 in C-sharp major. (E-sharp minor is the mediant minor key of C-sharp major.)\n\n"}
{"id": "2080973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080973", "title": "William Smith (Virginia governor)", "text": "William Smith (Virginia governor)\n\nWilliam \"Extra Billy\" Smith (September 6, 1797May 18, 1887) was a lawyer, congressman, the 30th and 35th Governor of Virginia, and a Major General in the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War. On his appointment in January 1863, at the age of 65, Smith was the oldest Confederate general to hold field command in the war.\n\nSmith was born in Marengo, (then Richmond County, Virginia now King George County, Virginia) to Mary Waugh Smith (1775-1811) (born at \"Mt. Eccentric\" in Fauquier County) and her cousin and husband Caleb Smith (1761-1814). His maternal grandfather (also William Smith, served in the local militia and was wounded in Lord Dunmore's War. His paternal grandfather Thomas Smith (1739-1801) had fought in the American Revolutionary War (and overwintered at Valley Forge, Pennsylvania). His uncle Col. Austin Smith served in the War of 1812 then represented King George County in the Virginia House of Delegates in 1814, 1821 and 1822. His mother's Doniphan ancestor had emigrated before 1663 and their joint ancestor, British naval officer Sir Sydney Smith emigrated circa 1720. The future governor had either six or seven siblings, including Rev. Thomas Smith (1799-1847) who was a minister at Smithfield, Virginia and later Parkersburg, West Virginia, and James Madison Smith (1808-1853). Billie Smith attended private school in Virginia and Plainfield Academy in Connecticut, then returned to Virginia to read law.\n\nIn 1820, he married Elizabeth Hansbrough Bell, of a similar social class. They would have eleven children, several of whom died in infancy or as young adults. Their son William Henry (1824-1850) was lost at sea and James Caleb Smith (1822-1856) would be admitted to the bar in California but die in Nicauragua. Their sons Austin Smith (1829- ), Thomas Smith (1836-1918) and Frederick Waugh Smith (1843-1928) would enlist in the Confederate States Army, and each for a time fought under their father. After the war Col. Thomas Smith would marry a Virginia judge's daughter, become U.S. Attorney for the Territory of New Mexico and Chief Justice of the territory's supreme court, before returning to Virginia. His brother Capt. Frederick Smith would move to South Africa and also live to old age. His nephew Caleb Smith (1824-1874; Rev. Thomas Smith's son) would resign his U.S. Army commission to fight for the confederacy and be wounded at Bull Run. His brother-in-law Peter Hansbrough Bell was a Texas Revolutionary and Mexican War veteran who served as the third Governor of Texas from 1849 through 1853. His cousin William Waugh Smith (1845-1912) would fight for the Confederacy then become president of Randolph Macon College and found Randolph College, a womens' college near Lynchburg.\n\nSmith was admitted to the bar and commenced practice in Culpeper, Culpeper County, Virginia, in 1818. About a decade later, in 1827, Smith established a line of United States mail and passenger post coaches through Virginia, then expanded the business into the Carolinas and Georgia in 1831. It was in this role that he received his nickname. Given a contract by the administration of President Andrew Jackson to deliver mail between Washington, D.C., and Milledgeville, Georgia (then the state capital), Smith extended it with numerous spur routes, all generating extra fees. During an investigation of the Post Office Department, Smith's extra fees were publicized by U.S. Senator Benjamin W. Leigh, and he became known as \"Extra Billy\" in both the North and South.\n\nSmith owned 10 slaves in the 1840 census.\nInterested in politics and a Democrat, Smith won election to the Senate of Virginia from the Piedmont district consisting of Culpeper, Madison, Orange, Rappahannock and Greene counties, and served from 1836 to 1841. He resigned during his second term, having successfully the election of Linn Banks to the Twenty-seventh Congress. Thus Smith served one term, from March 4, 1841, to March 3, 1843 but failed to win reelection in 1842 to the Twenty-eighth Congress. He then moved to Fauquier County.\n\nElected by legislators as Governor of Virginia in 1845, Smith served from 1846-1849, during the Mexican–American War, but failed to earn legislative approval necessary for election to the United States Senate during that period. AS his gubernatorial term ended and consecutive terms were forbidden, Smith moved to California in April 1849 after the California Gold Rush and was president of the first Democratic State convention in 1850. Smith soon returned to Virginia and in December 1852 was elected to the Thirty-third Congress and to the three succeeding Congresses (March 4, 1853 – March 3, 1861). Although chosen for the Confederate States Congress, he resigned in 1862 in favor of military service. He was again elected governor in 1863 (this time by popular election in Confederate-held territory) and served until the end of the war.\n\n\nWhen Virginia seceded from the Union, Smith declined to accept a commission as a brigadier general because he rightly admitted he was \"wholly ignorant of drill and tactics\". A few weeks after the war started, he was present during a Union cavalry charge at the Battle of Fairfax Court House (June 1861). He took command of the Confederate troops after the death of their commander John Quincy Marr and found he enjoyed the experience. He requested a commission and was appointed colonel of the 49th Virginia Infantry regiment just three days before the First Battle of Bull Run, where the regiment and new commander performed well.\nSmith served in the Confederate Congress in 1862 but returned to the 49th Virginia at the start of the Peninsula Campaign. He was wounded at the Battle of Seven Pines and his regiment received favorable notice in his commander's report. During the Seven Days Battles the regiment was lightly engaged, but he and his command again were described as having \"characteristic coolness\" and \"fearlessness.\" He was known for expressing contempt for West Point graduates (\"West P'inters\") and their formal tactics, recommending common sense to his men instead of a military education, and distinguished himself with his unorthodox field uniform, including a tall beaver hat and a blue cotton umbrella.\n\nAt the Battle of Antietam, Smith temporarily commanded a brigade in Maj. Gen. Jubal Early's division. He was wounded three times but continued to command, and Maj. Gen. J. E. B. Stuart wrote that he was \"conspicuously brave and self-possessed.\" By the end of the battle, he had to be carried from the field. In recognition of his performance, he was promoted to brigadier general as of January 31, 1863. He commanded a brigade in the Battle of Chancellorsville but achieved no distinction in this role.\n\nBy the time of the Gettysburg Campaign, Smith's superiors were leery of his performance, but had to maintain some degree of support, since he was the former governor and at the time the governor-elect of Virginia. Early directed Brig. Gen. John B. Gordon to keep close contact with Smith and effectively exercise a joint command over their two brigades. During the Battle of Gettysburg, Smith refused to pursue retreating Union XI Corps troops, concerned that a Union force was approaching from his left, which was a significant reason that the Confederates failed to attack and take Cemetery Hill on July 1, 1863. Smith was the oldest general on the field and fought (unsuccessfully) the oldest Union general, Brig. Gen. George S. Greene, at Culp's Hill on July 3, 1863. He was the only general not commended in Early's official report and, as a result, decided to resign his commission on July 10. He nevertheless received an essentially honorary promotion to major general and Assistant Inspector General on August 12 and performed recruiting duty in Virginia.\n\nBefore the Gettysburg Campaign, Smith was elected again as Governor of Virginia and served from January 1, 1864, to the end of the war. He was among the first Southern governors to advocate arming blacks to provide manpower for the Confederacy, and he occasionally returned to the field to command troops in the defense of Richmond. He was removed from office and arrested on May 9, 1865, but was paroled on June 8.\n\nHe returned to his estate, \"Monte Rosa\" (later renamed \"Neptune Lodge\") near Warrenton, Virginia, where he engaged in agricultural pursuits. At the age of eighty, he became a member of the Virginia House of Delegates (1877–79). He died in Warrenton and was buried in Hollywood Cemetery, Richmond, Virginia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080977", "title": "Robert Dennison", "text": "Robert Dennison\n\nRobert Dennison may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2080979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080979", "title": "John Armstrong", "text": "John Armstrong\n\nJohn Armstrong may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080981", "title": "Jeremy Catto", "text": "Jeremy Catto\n\nRobert Jeremy Adam Inch Catto (27 July 1939 – 17 August 2018) was a British historian who was a Rhodes fellow and tutor in Modern History at Oriel College, Oxford, where he was also senior dean. Catto was a Brackenbury Scholar in History at Balliol College, Oxford, where he graduated with first-class honours. He held a master's degree (M.A.) and a doctorate (D.Phil.) From 1964 to 1969 he was employed as a tutor at Hatfield College, Durham. During this time he became acquainted with Mark Lancaster and Bryan Ferry, who were then art students in nearby Newcastle. \n\nHis research interests lay in the politics and religion of later medieval England. In a piece in \"The Spectator\" to commemorate his retirement in June 2006, Alan Duncan MP described him as \"the quintessential Oxford don ... if one were to devour C. P. Snow, Goodbye, Mr. Chips and Porterhouse Blue, there is a smattering of Catto in each.\"\n\nHe died on 17 August 2018 at the age of 79.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080984", "title": "Loft Crag", "text": "Loft Crag\n\nLoft Crag is a fell in the English Lake District, situated 9 kilometres (5½ miles) west of Ambleside in the valley of Great Langdale. Along with the neighbouring fells of Harrison Stickle and Pike of Stickle it forms the picturesque Langdale Pikes, which when viewed from the area around Elterwater village gives one of the best-known views in the National Park.\n\nThe Langdale Pikes form a parapet to the lower hinterland to their north. From 'behind' they are unimpressive, but their southern faces fall full length over crags to the floor of Langdale, nearly 2,000 ft below. Loft Crag has a peaked summit which apes in lesser proportion the fine knoll of Pike of Stickle. To the east, between Loft Crag and Harrison Stickle is the subsidiary top of Thorn Crag. This is sometimes counted as a Langdale Pike in its own right, but only Birkett amongst the major guidebooks takes this view.\n\nLoft Crag has an altitude of 2,238 ft (682 metres). It lies between Harrison Stickle and Pike o’ Stickle and is usually climbed in conjunction with these two peaks. The starting place for the direct ascent of the fell is The New Dungeon Ghyll Hotel in Great Langdale. A path leads north-westerly across the hillside passing Dungeon Ghyll Force waterfall and going between Thorn Crag and Gimmer Crag to a col between Loft Crag and Harrison Stickle. From there it is a straightforward climb to the summit. A more circuitous ascent can be undertaken from the same starting point but taking the well trodden (and repaired) path up Stickle Ghyll to Stickle Tarn. From here the fells of Pavey Ark and Thunacar Knott can be climbed before tackling the three Langdale Pikes.\n\nLoft Crag is a fine viewpoint which gives an attractive vista of the fells around Great Langdale. Because the fell juts further out into the valley than the other two Langdale Pikes, it gives a more impressive and full view of the valley. The fell has a small sharp summit below which rises Gimmer Crag, which is one of the top rock climbing venues in the Lake District. The crag is made of volcaniclastic siltstone and mudstone. Climbing in the Lake District was pioneered in the early 1880s by the father of British rock climbing Walter Parry Haskett Smith.\n"}
{"id": "2080995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080995", "title": "Puotila metro station", "text": "Puotila metro station\n\nPuotila metro station (, ) is a ground-level cut-and-cover metro station on the M1 line of the Helsinki Metro. There are 200 bicycle and 331 car parking spaces at Puotila. It serves the neighborhoods of Puotila and Puotinharju in East Helsinki.\n\nThe station was opened on 31 August 1998, making it one of the newest stations in the Helsinki Metro. It was designed by the architect bureau \"Kaupunkisuunnittelu Oy Jarmo Maunula\". It is located 1 kilometer from the Itäkeskus, and 2 kilometers from Rastila.\n"}
{"id": "2080999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080999", "title": "Joseph B. Mitchell", "text": "Joseph B. Mitchell\n\nJoseph Brady Mitchell (September 25, 1915 – February 17, 1993) was an American military historian.\n\nHe served for 18 years in the U.S. Army and achieved the rank of lieutenant colonel.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081012", "title": "Hexagonal bipyramid", "text": "Hexagonal bipyramid\n\nA hexagonal bipyramid is a polyhedron formed from two hexagonal pyramids joined at their bases. The resulting solid has 12 triangular faces, 8 vertices and 18 edges. The 12 faces are identical isosceles triangles.\n\nAlthough it is face-transitive, it is not a Platonic solid because some vertices have four faces meeting and others have six faces, and because its faces cannot be equilateral triangles.\n\nIt is one of an infinite set of bipyramids. Having twelve faces, it is a type of dodecahedron, although that name is usually associated with the regular polyhedral form with pentagonal faces.\n\nThe hexagonal bipyramid has a plane of symmetry (which is horizontal in the figure to the right) where the bases of the two pyramids are joined. This plane is a regular hexagon. There are also six planes of symmetry crossing through the two apices. These planes are rhombic and lie at 30° angles to each other, perpendicular to the horizontal plane.\n\nIt can be drawn as a tiling on a sphere which also represents the fundamental domains of [3,2], *322 dihedral symmetry:\n\nThe hexagonal bipyramid, dt{2,6}, can be in sequence truncated, tdt{2,6} and alternated (snubbed), sdt{2,6}:\n\nThe \"hexagonal bipyramid\", dt{2,6}, can be in sequence rectified, rdt{2,6}, truncated, trdt{2,6} and alternated (snubbed), srdt{2,6}:\n\nIt the first polyhedra in a sequence defined by the face configuration \"V4.6.2n\". This group is special for having all even number of edges per vertex and form bisecting planes through the polyhedra and infinite lines in the plane, and continuing into the hyperbolic plane for any formula_1\n\nWith an even number of faces at every vertex, these polyhedra and tilings can be shown by alternating two colors so all adjacent faces have different colors.\n\nEach face on these domains also corresponds to the fundamental domain of a symmetry group with order 2,3,n mirrors at each triangle face vertex.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081017", "title": "Shodan (rank)", "text": "Shodan (rank)\n\n, literally meaning \"beginning degree,\" is the lowest black belt rank in Japanese martial arts and the game of Go. The 2nd dan is higher than \"Shodan\", but the 1st dan is called \"Shodan\" traditionally and not \"\"Ichidan\"\". This is because the character 初 (\"sho\", alternative pronunciation: \"hatsu\") also means first, new or beginning in Japanese.\n\nAlso frequently referred to as \"first dan\", it is a part of the \"kyū\"/\"dan\" ranking system common to modern Japanese martial arts. The term may be used to describe both the rank a person holds, as well as the person (i.e., it is proper to say that a person holds the rank of shodan, and it is also appropriate to say, \"I \"am\" a shodan in 'x' martial art\").\n"}
{"id": "2081021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081021", "title": "Rastila metro station", "text": "Rastila metro station\n\nRastila metro station (, ) is a ground-level station on the M1 line of the Helsinki Metro. There are 134 bicycle and 34 car parking spaces at Rastila. It serves the residential areas of Meri-Rastila and Rastila in the district of Vuosaari, in East Helsinki.\n\nThe station was opened on 31 August 1998. It was designed by Irmeli Grundström and Juhani Vainio. The station is located 2.0 kilometers from the Puotila metro station, and 1.2 kilometers from the Vuosaari metro station.\n"}
{"id": "2081022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081022", "title": "Delayed nuclear radiation", "text": "Delayed nuclear radiation\n\nDelayed nuclear radiation is a form of nuclear decay. When an isotope decays into a very short-lived isotope and then decays again to a relatively long-lived isotope, the products of the second decay are delayed. The short-lived isotope is usually a meta-stable nuclear isomer.\n\nFor example, gallium-73 decays via beta decay into germanium-73m2, which is short-lived (499ms). The germanium isotope emits two weak gamma rays and a conversion electron.\n\nBecause the middle isotope is so short-lived, the gamma rays are considered part of the gallium decay. Therefore, the above equations are combined.\n\nHowever, since there is a short time delay between the beta decay and the high energy gamma emissions and the third and fourth gamma rays, it is said that the lower energy gamma rays are \"delayed\".\n\nDelayed gamma emissions are the most common form of delayed radiation but are not the only form. It is common for the short-lived isotopes to have delayed emissions of various particles. In these cases it is commonly called a \"beta-delayed\" emission. This is because the decay is delayed until a beta decay takes place. For instance nitrogen-17 emits two beta-delayed neutrons after its primary beta emission. Just as in the above delayed gamma emission, the nitrogen is not the actual source of the neutrons, a short lived isotope of oxygen is.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081023", "title": "Sol Kanee", "text": "Sol Kanee\n\nSol Kanee, (June 1, 1909 – April 22, 2007) was a Canadian lawyer, former President of Canadian Jewish Congress from 1971 to 1974, former Chairman of the World Jewish Congress Board of Governors, the longest-serving member, for 17 years, of the board of governors of the Bank of Canada, and chairman of the Federal Business Development Bank, 1975–78.\n\nBorn in Melville, Saskatchewan, he received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Manitoba in 1929 and a Bachelor of Law degree from the University of Saskatchewan in 1932. He was called to Bar of Saskatchewan in 1933. From 1933 to 1940, he practised law in Melville, Saskatchewan with the law firm Kanee & Deroche. During World War II, he served with the Canadian Army in Europe and the South Pacific. He was discharged with the rank of Major. He and his wife Florence had one son, Stephen, now resident in Minneapolis.\n\nAfter the war, he practised law in Winnipeg, Manitoba with the law firm, Shinbane, Dorfman & Kanee, until 1965. He was the owner and President of Soo Line Mills, which he took over after his father's death, and several other businesses in Winnipeg. Under his supervision, in 1955, the Soo Line Milling Company switched from conveyor belt operation to a pneumatic drive; this was the first flour mill to make this switch in the Western hemisphere.\n\nIn addition to his national and international contributions, Sol Kanee worked hard to improve his city, Winnipeg. There, he chaired the Community Welfare Planning Council, and worked tirelessly for a variety of organisations, including the Society for Crippled Children and Adults, the United Way, the Royal Winnipeg Ballet (which he helped lift from obscurity), the Board of Governors of the University of Manitoba (of which he was chair) and the Sharon Home.\n\nSol Kanee devoted much of his energy toward improving the status of Jews around the world. He rose through the ranks to become president of the Canadian Jewish Congress from 1971 to 1974, and worked on the executive of the World Jewish Congress. He passionately supported and advocated on behalf of the state of Israel, and using his connections in Canadian politics, he convinced C.D. Howe not only to sell arms to Israel, but to do so at discounted rates; he later procured planes and cargo to supply relief to the young country. His other, international humanitarian projects included fighting to secure reparations from Germany and persuading the Russian government to ease its restriction on Russian Jews emigrating to Israel.\n\nSol Kanee's immense contributions to Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada and the world earned him several important distinctions, including the Centennial of Canada Medal in 1967, an Honorary Doctor of Laws from the University of Manitoba in 1974, the Canadian Jewish Congress Samuel Bronfman Medal in 1978, the International B'nai Brith Humanitarian Award in 1979 and the Nahum Goldmann Medal in 1995. The Winnipeg Jewish Community Council created the Sol Kanee Distinguished Service Medal in 1994, his long-time friend Arthur Mauro founded the Sol Kanee Lecture on International Peace and Justice in 2002, and the Jewish Heritage Centre of Western Canada created the Sol & Florence Kanee Distinguished Lecture Series in 2004.\n\nHe was made an Officer of the Order of Canada in 1977 and was awarded the Order of Manitoba for his \"unparalleled record of service to Winnipeg and Canada’s Jewish community\" in 2000. His sister, Dr. Ricky Kanee Schachter has also received the Order of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081029", "title": "Timeline of the Hellenic Army", "text": "Timeline of the Hellenic Army\n\nThe Hellenic Army is the land force component of the Hellenic Armed Forces. It was officially founded in 1828 and still operates today as the main contributor to the Balkan Battle Group. This article details the history of the Hellenic Army in the form a of a timeline from its de facto founding to the modern day.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081034", "title": "Angels with Dirty Faces (Sugababes album)", "text": "Angels with Dirty Faces (Sugababes album)\n\nAngels with Dirty Faces is the second studio album by English girl group Sugababes. It was released by Island Records in the UK on 26 August 2002, and in most European territories by September 2002. The album marked the band's debut on the Island label, following their split with London Records in 2001, and was their first regular release to be recorded under the second line-up, including new member Heidi Range, who replaced founding member Siobhán Donaghy.\n\nThe album features production from Lucas Secon and Xenomania, and peaked at number two on the UK Albums Chart, achieving triple platinum status. In Australia, the album was released on 18 November 2002.\n\nShortly after the release of the final single from the band's debut album, \"One Touch\", group member and co-founder Siobhán Donaghy left the band because of personal differences within the band. She was officially replaced by new member, Heidi Range during 2001. After being dropped by their former label, London Records, the band began to search for a new record label. Having already started writing material for the band's second studio album, they eventually signed with Island Records.\n\nThe album was eventually released domestically on 26 August 2002, to much anticipation, following the success of the first two singles to be lifted from the album \"Freak like Me\" and \"Round Round\", both of which peaked at number 1 in the UK. The album received favourable reviews from critics, with AllMusic awarding it a 3.5/5 stars.\n\nAlmost a month after the album's UK release, it was released across Europe and in New Zealand in September 2002, where it gained considerable success. The album received a Platinum Europe Award by the IFPI in recognition of European sales in excess of 1 million copies.\n\n\"Angels with Dirty Faces\" performed better than the group's previous album \"One Touch\" with the highest position in the UK Albums Chart of number two; it stayed in the charts for forty weeks. \"Freak like Me\", which samples Gary Numan's \"Are 'Friends' Electric?\", was the first released single and entered the UK Singles Chart at number one. \"Round Round\", produced by Xenomania, was the second released single and also debuted on the UK chart at number one. The third single released was a double A-side release of \"Stronger\" and \"Angels with Dirty Faces\", which reached number seven on the UK Singles Chart. The last single, \"Shape\", which samples Sting's single \"Shape of My Heart\", was the only one from the album not to achieve a position in the top ten of the UK Singles Chart; it entered at number eleven. The song, however, did reach the top ten in Poland (number one), Ireland (number nine) and the Netherlands (number ten).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081036", "title": "Vuosaari metro station", "text": "Vuosaari metro station\n\nVuosaari metro station (, ) is the ground-level terminus station of the M1 line of the Helsinki Metro. It serves the district of Vuosaari in East Helsinki.\n\nThe station was opened on 31 August 1998 and was designed by the architect firm Esa Piironen Oy. It is located 1.2 kilometers east of Rastila metro station.\n\nIn 2011, a 1.4 kilometer-long service rail was created from the end of the Vuosaari station to Vuosaari Harbour. The service rail connects the metro track to the railway network and replaced the previous, longer service rail line that ran through the district of Viikki. The service rail has been used to move heavy maintenance and construction machinery and materials, including those that were related to the Länsimetro project.\n\nA trial run with platform screen doors was conducted at Vuosaari. The project was delayed due to technical and safety related testing.\n"}
{"id": "2081038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081038", "title": "Jedediah Hotchkiss", "text": "Jedediah Hotchkiss\n\nJedediah Hotchkiss (November 30, 1828 – January 17, 1899), known most frequently as Jed, was an educator and the most famous cartographer and topographer of the American Civil War. His detailed and accurate maps of the Shenandoah Valley are credited by many as a principal factor in Confederate General Stonewall Jackson's victories in the Valley Campaign of 1862.\n\nHotchkiss was born in Windsor, New York. He graduated from the Windsor Academy and, by the age of 18, he was teaching school himself in Lykens Valley, Pennsylvania. The following year he relocated to the Shenandoah Valley and opened the Mossy Creek Academy in Augusta County. He supplemented his income as a schoolteacher by working as a mining geologist. As he explored the beautiful area around his new home he began his hobby (and minor business) of mapmaking that would dominate the rest of his life. In 1853 he married a woman from Pennsylvania named Sara Ann Comfort and together they had two daughters. In 1855 Hotchkiss and his brother Nelson founded the Loch Willow Academy school for boys in Churchville, Virginia. His birthplace, known as the Jedediah Hotchkiss House, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982.\n\nNear the end of June, 1861, Hotchkiss signed on as a Confederate teamster to take supplies to the Churchville Cavalry at Rich Mountain, West Virginia. Hotchkiss offered his services as a mapmaker to Brig. Gen. Richard B. Garnett, whose Confederate brigade was operating in western Virginia. Hotchkiss served at Rich Mountain and created maps for General Robert E. Lee's planned campaign in the mountains. He took a brief medical leave after being stricken with typhoid fever, but returned to duty in March 1862 as chief topographical engineer of the Valley District, reporting to Maj. Gen. Stonewall Jackson. On March 26, 1862, Jackson summoned Hotchkiss to his headquarters and directed him to \"make me a map of the Valley, from Harper's Ferry to Lexington, showing all the points of offence and defence [sic] in those places.\"\n\nThe Shenandoah Valley had never been mapped in detail before. Running 150 miles in length and 25 miles wide, it was a daunting task, but Hotchkiss accepted the assignment, and worked on the map for the remainder of the war. In order to accommodate his large scale of 1:80,000, he glued together three portions of tracing linen to form a large single map of 7 feet by 3 feet.\nCaptain Hotchkiss served under Jackson for the rest of the general's life. Producing large volumes of accurate, detailed, and even beautiful maps, he also aided the general by personally directing troop movements across the terrain with which he had become so familiar. Jackson's reputation for lightning movements and surprise attacks, befuddling his enemies, owes much to Hotchkiss's cartography. Together they served in the Valley Campaign, the Northern Virginia Campaign (including Cedar Mountain, the Second Battle of Bull Run, and Chantilly), the Maryland Campaign (including Harpers Ferry and Antietam), and the Battle of Fredericksburg. At the Battle of Chancellorsville in May 1863, Jackson asked Hotchkiss for eight maps of the area west of Fredericksburg and, along with local residents, discovered the route that Jackson's corps took in the famous flanking march against the Union army. That night, Jackson was mortally wounded and died less than two weeks later.\n\nAfter his general's death, Hotchkiss continued to be assigned to the staff of the corps commanders who succeeded Jackson (Generals Richard S. Ewell and Jubal A. Early), but he was frequently called upon to work directly for General Robert E. Lee at the headquarters of the Army of Northern Virginia. Balancing these dual responsibilities, he served through the Gettysburg Campaign, the Mine Run Campaign, and the Overland Campaign. In June 1864 he accompanied General Early on his raid through the Shenandoah Valley toward Washington, D.C., and one of his maps contributed to Early's successful surprise attack against General Philip Sheridan at the Battle of Cedar Creek (although the map was not able to prevent Early's decisive defeat by the end of the battle). He then returned to the Siege of Petersburg with the remnants of Early's defeated army for the remainder of the war.\n\nAfter General Lee's surrender at Appomattox Court House in April 1865, Hotchkiss surrendered to the Union Army. General Ulysses S. Grant had Hotchkiss released from custody and returned his maps to him. Grant paid Hotchkiss for permission to use some of his maps in his reports and almost all of the Confederate maps in the \"Official Records\" produced by the U.S. War Department were those drawn by him.\n\nAs a civilian again, Hotchkiss returned to Staunton, Virginia, reopened his school, and was involved in economic activities designed to promote the recovery of the war-ravaged Shenandoah Valley and in veterans' affairs. After teaching school, he opened an office as a civil and mining consulting engineer and, being so familiar with the geography of the state, was able to steer lucrative foreign and Northern investments to the most appropriate places.\n\nIn October, 1865, a Federal detective confronted Hotchkiss with a military order to confiscate his map collection. Hotchkiss refused to obey the order, and instead took some maps to Richmond for examination by army engineers. Despite Federal pressure, he was able to retain ownership of all his maps, while preparing maps of Virginia counties for the United States Army.\n\nHotchkiss collaborated in the writing of the 12-volume \"Confederate Military History\", writing the 1,295-page Virginia volume himself. His journals were edited in 1973 by Archie P. MacDonald and published under the title \"Make Me a Map of the Valley: The Civil War Journal of Stonewall Jackson's Cartographer\". Hotchkiss's sketchbooks, diaries, and maps are available at the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C.\n\nJedediah Hotchkiss died at his home in Staunton at age 71. He is buried there in Thornrose Cemetery. The small town of Hotchkiss, West Virginia, in Raleigh County was named for him. The magnificent Queen Anne- and Eastlake-style mansion Hotchkiss built in 1888 at 437 East Beverley Street, Staunton, Virginia, still stands. It is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and Virginia Landmark Register as The Oaks. It is currently in private ownership after a sale in February 2019 by the family that purchased it from the Hotchkiss heirs in 1948.\n\nThe Hotchkiss collection contains over 600 maps primarily relating to the Virginias between 1861 and 1865. Some of the maps are from his post-war work, some are of individual estates, and some are source maps made by others. The map collection was retained by his family following his death and refusal of the Federal confiscation order. C. Vernon Eddy, librarian of the Handley Regional Library in Winchester, Virginia made arrangements for the listing and safe-keeping of the maps in specially-made aluminum tubes, before they were finally given to the Library of Congress in 1948, who then published the maps in 1951. Three of the original maps were donated by the Hotchkiss family to the Handley Library: a \"Route Map of Gettysburg Campaign\", a \"Sketch of the Battle of Winchester\" [First], and a \"Sketch of the Second Battle of Winchester\". The Jedediah Hotchkiss Papers are available in the Stewart Bell Jr. Archives Room through the Winchester-Frederick County Historical Society at Handley Regional Library in Winchester, Virginia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081039", "title": "Robert John Weston Evans", "text": "Robert John Weston Evans\n\nRobert John Weston Evans FLSW FBA (born 7 October 1943) is a historian, whose speciality is the post-medieval history of Central and Eastern Europe. He was educated at Dean Close School, Cheltenham, and later at Jesus College, Cambridge. Evans was Regius Professor of Modern History in the University of Oxford from 1997 to 2011, and is a Fellow of Oriel College, Oxford. He works on the post-medieval history of Central and Eastern Europe, especially concerning that of the Habsburg lands from 1526–1918.\n\nHe has a particular interest in the role of language in historical development. His main current research is on a history of Hungary, from 1740–1945. He also studies the history of Wales and is the President of Cymdeithas Dafydd ap Gwilym, the Oxford University Welsh language society. He is a Founding Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales and is a Member of its inaugural Council.\n\nEvans received an Honorary Silver Medal of Jan Masaryk at the Czech Republic Ambassador's residence in London in November 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081044", "title": "Crime Stoppers International", "text": "Crime Stoppers International\n\nCrime Stoppers International Foundation or CSI Foundation (CSI) is an umbrella organization that aims to spread the Crime Stoppers program in countries around the world. Crime Stoppers is a program designed to utilize the media and other resources to entice information from the public that can facilitate police investigations. CSI is run by a volunteer board and its activities include hosting annual training conferences and supporting regional leadership and training programs. CSI coordinates networking resources for local Crime Stoppers' operations, such as a website and a print publications called \"The Caller\". It is funded by dues paid by member organizations. Some of the services CSI provides to its members include an annual awards program for local Crime Stoppers operations, produces an operations manual to assist new programs and to help set up and guide new Crime Stopper programs, and providing legal services to its members.\n\nCSI lists its mission statement as the following: \"To develop Crime Stoppers as an effective crime-solving organization throughout the world, with the primary objective of the tri-partite organization, Community, Media and Law Enforcement, being, Working Together to Solve Crime\".\n\nThe Crime Stoppers program began in the 1970s as an innovation to solve a crime that was committed with no witnesses and few leads for police investigators. The main goal is to produce televised re-enactments, offer rewards and promises of anonymity for information leading to an arrest. Detective Greg MacAleese was investigating the murder of a gas station attendant, Michael Carmen, in Albuquerque, New Mexico in 1976 when he came up with the idea.. At the time, Albuquerque had one of the highest per capita crime rates in the US. Its crime rate has since improved.\n\nIn Canada, a Supreme Court of Canada decision R. v . Leipert, [1997] 1 S.C.R. 281 ruled unanimously that police do not have to disclose any information they receive from this internationally recognized crime prevention program.\n\nThus a phone number was developed, 705-497-5555\n\nIn 2009, it was revealed that information from Crime Stoppers had resulted in 18 arrests, 34 charges and 23 cases cleared for the year. One of Barbados' leading newspapers additionally reported that Crime Stoppers Barbados Inc. was to-date the fastest growing of the worldwide organisations belonging to the group. Tony Phillips, as Chairman of the local unit stated that \"Over 90 per cent of the tips have been useful . . . [and] the success ratio is well documented by the police force.\" Regarding the local unit, Philips further maintained, \"They [Crime Stoppers] have never seen one of the organisations develop as quickly as we have, and I think that it is a significant achievement. Tips have been on or above average for a Crimestoppers International, exceeding 50 per month, which is the average for international organisations,\" he stated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081051", "title": "Latino World Order", "text": "Latino World Order\n\nThe Latino World Order (abbreviated lWo or LWO) was a professional wrestling stable that existed in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in 1998 and 1999 led by Eddie Guerrero. The name of the stable was invented by Jason Hervey and was inspired by and intended as a mockery of the famous New World Order (nWo).\n\nThe LWO was formed in late 1998 after Eddie Guerrero's spat with WCW head Eric Bischoff, a real-life conflict that was turned into a storyline. The group was the idea of Jason Hervey, a friend of Bischoff. The stable was originally supposed to revolve around Konnan, but it was given to Guerrero after Konnan joined the nWo Wolfpac.\n\nOn August 17, Guerrero gave a shoot, where he claimed to want out of his contract. After being taken off television for several weeks, Guerrero returned on the October 5 edition of \"WCW Monday Nitro\", forming the LWO with several other Mexican wrestlers. The group consisted of the majority of the Mexican roster, as well as Guerrero's friend Art Flores, who played the role of a bodyguard named Spyder.\n\nThe group consisted of almost every major Mexican wrestler on the WCW roster including Psychosis, La Parka, Hector Garza, and Juventud Guerrera. Their main feud lied with Rey Mysterio, Jr., after he refused to join the group. They also feuded with Billy Kidman, Mysterio's on-and-off American tag team partner. Mysterio was forced to become a member after losing a match to Eddie Guerrero. Chavo Guerrero, Jr. attempted to join several times, but Eddie did not allow him to become a member since Chavo was (kayfabe) mentally unstable at the time and carried around a wooden horse named Pepé.\n\nA car accident suffered by Guerrero on January 1, 1999 would help bring a premature end to the LWO. Three days later, the two factions of the New World Order reunited, and before long, various members of the LWO were found lying unconscious backstage. The nWo approached the LWO and demanded they immediately disband or face further consequences. The next week Ric Flair also asked the LWO to disband and fight for WCW promising he would treat them better than Bischoff did and also promising them money, women and limousines. Every member other than Mysterio agreed, removing their LWO shirts and exiting the ring. Mysterio, who was not originally a willing member of the group, proved himself the most loyal when he refused to remove his LWO colors. The nWo beat him down and forcibly tore off his LWO shirt, leading to a feud between Mysterio and The Outsiders.\n\nThe reunited nWo also betrayed their only Latino member, Konnan, who had objected to the brutality used against Mysterio, leading them to form a team against The Outsiders. As Eddie Guerrero healed and made his in-ring return, key LWO members such as himself, Mysterio, and Juventud Guerrera formed a popular new group with Konnan known as The Filthy Animals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081057", "title": "Shoulder strap", "text": "Shoulder strap\n\nA shoulder strap is a strap over a shoulder. They are often affixed to women's dresses to support its weight or as part of its style. The term is also applied to carrying bags.\n\nDress shoulder straps are a length of fabric, usually in pairs, used to support clothing, especially women's clothing, such as a dress, camisole, apron or brassiere. Shoulder straps such as these are usually made of the same material as the garment, and may be quite flimsy, as they are normally not expected to support much weight.\n\nThe shoulder straps on some dresses may be very thin, in which case they may be called a spaghetti strap (also called \"noodle strap\"). These are common in clothing such as camisoles, cocktail dresses, and evening gowns.\n\nSome institutions ban spaghetti strap dresses and bare-shoulder strapless dresses on grounds of modesty.\n\nMany military uniform shirts, jackets, tunics, or greatcoats feature shoulder straps. They were originally designed to keep back packs, ammunition pouches or bayonets from slipping off the shoulder. They often display badges of rank, shoulder marks, regimental insignia or epaulettes.\n\nA carrier shoulder strap is a length of fabric or other flexible material (such as leather, vinyl, rubber), used to suspend an item, often of some weight, from the shoulder(s). The strap may be worn slung over one shoulder or across the body. In the interest of comfort, they often have some manner of padding near the middle, where the strap rests directly against the shoulder or neck. Such items include purses, guitars, rifles, etc. In the case of rifles and other such weaponry, the shoulder strap is usually referred to as a \"sling\". Shoulder straps may also be used in pairs on such items as a backpack or a baby carrier; the straps are worn one over each shoulder, and the item so carried is centred on the back or chest. Some camera strap manufacturers, such as BlackRapid, design their straps to fit over both shoulders allowing two cameras to rest at hip level.\n\nThe use of such straps frees the hands for other use.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081058", "title": "Losing Streak", "text": "Losing Streak\n\nLosing Streak is the second studio album by ska punk band Less Than Jake, released on November 12, 1996 on Capitol Records. The album was recorded at Criteria Studios in Miami, Florida and Mirror Image Studios in Gainesville, Florida, both with producer Michael Rosen. Drums and bass were recorded at the former, while everything else was recorded at the latter. The album includes re-recordings of \"Jen Doesn't Like Me Anymore\" and \"Johnny Quest Thinks We're Sellouts\", both of which appeared on \"Pezcore\". \"Losing Streak\" was re-released with \"Hello Rockview\" as a double album in 2000.\n\nThe album reached #18 on the Top Heatseekers chart.\n\nThe album's first track, \"Automatic\" was featured in a music video on MTV alternative music showcase 120 Minutes. The video consisted of fan video footage from shows in Gainesville, Florida and Chicago.\n\nA controversial video was also made for \"Dopeman\". MTV has refused to air the video allegedly due to drug references. Band supporters maintain that the song has fewer references to drugs than many videos played on MTV and is actually commenting on the negative aspects of a \"Dopeman\" lifestyle. In addition claims have been made that the band Sugar Ray copied the video's concept in one of their own music videos.\n\nLosing Streak features a hidden track accessible only by rewinding the CD about a minute and forty one seconds before the beginning of track 1. The track features banter spoken by former band mascot \"Howie J. Reynolds\", an elderly Gainesville local, similar in concept to Sublime's recorded rantings of a mentally ill man on Robbin' the Hood. This leads into track 1, which begins with him stating, \"This is the old dude, Howard J. Reynolds, and you're listening to 'Less Than Jake'\".\n\nNot all CDs have this hidden track.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081060", "title": "Maine State Route 9", "text": "Maine State Route 9\n\nState Route 9 (SR 9) is a numbered state highway in Maine, running from the New Hampshire border at Berwick in the west to the Canada–US border with New Brunswick at Calais in the east. SR 9 runs a total of .\n\nState Route 9 is a meandering highway that works its way from New Hampshire to Canada. It frequently runs concurrent with other highways listed below and also frequently changes direction. For instance, in Kennebunk, State Route 9 travels in a westerly direction even though it is signed as eastbound. State Route 9 runs through most of Maine's major cities including Biddeford, Saco, South Portland, Portland, Augusta, and Bangor. \n\nOver the years, a number of improvements have been made by the Route 9 Committee, a partnership of local government officials and business interests in the Baileyville-Calais area.\n\nThe leg from Bangor to Calais is often referred to as \"The Airline\" commonly thought to be due to its shorter route than the older U.S. 1. (Before the coming of air travel, the term airline often referred to such a shortcut.) Although anecdotes about unexploded ordnance deriving from bombers flying from the former Dow Air Force Base (now Bangor International Airport) using a number of towers and landmarks along \"The Airline\", in fact the term goes back to the early 1850s as a contrast to the shoreline route. The last section of \"The Airline\" was paved in 1973 in Crawford and many old sections of the road are visible to the side of the present roadway. The \"Whale's Back\", a 2-mile stretch built atop an esker in Hancock County was one of the most notable features of the highway until it was rebuilt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081065", "title": "General Church of the New Jerusalem", "text": "General Church of the New Jerusalem\n\nThe General Church of the New Jerusalem (also referred to as the \"General Church\" or just simply the \"New Church\") is an international church based in Bryn Athyn, Pennsylvania, and based on the Old Testament, the New Testament, and the theological works of Emanuel Swedenborg (often called \"the Writings for the New Church\" or just \"the Writings\"). The General Church of the New Jerusalem distinguishes itself from other Swedenborgian churches by teaching that the Writings for the New Church are the Heavenly Doctrine revealed by the Lord in His Second Coming and have authority equal to the Old and New Testaments. It is larger, newer, and more conservative than the Swedenborgian Church of North America.\n\nThe General Church of the New Jerusalem accepts the doctrine of the New Church as described in the works published by Emanuel Swedenborg. The following doctrine can be drawn from and verified by these works. Among these works are, True Christian Religion, Heaven and Hell, Conjugial Love, The New Jerusalem and its Heavenly Doctrine, Heavenly Secrets, The Doctrine of the Lord, and many more. In these works the doctrine of The New Church is defined.\n\n\nIn 1890, as a result of a doctrinal disagreement, the General Church broke away from the General Convention of the Church of the New Jerusalem, also known as the Swedenborgian Church of North America, which had itself been established in 1817. In 1999, the General Church had about 5,600 members, and the General Convention had about 2,600 members. By 2006, membership in the General Church had increased to 6,760.\n\nPreschool Education (ages 3–5)\n\n\nElementary Education (ages 6–14)\n\n\nSecondary Education (ages 14–18)\n\nHigher Education\n\n\nOther organizations\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081074", "title": "Lake Wimico and St. Joseph Canal and Railroad Company", "text": "Lake Wimico and St. Joseph Canal and Railroad Company\n\nThe Lake Wimico and St. Joseph Canal and Railroad was the first steam railroad in Florida and one of the first in the U.S., opening in 1836. With the collapse of the town of St. Joseph, the railroad was abandoned by 1842.\n\nThe Lake Wimico and St. Joseph Canal Company was chartered by Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida in 1835, and was renamed in 1836 to the Lake Wimico and St. Joseph Canal and Railroad Company. Disputed land ownership had caused many residents of Apalachicola, the port at the mouth of the Apalachicola River, to start the new town of St. Joseph on St. Joseph Bay. The original plan was to dig a canal from the Apalachicola River to St. Joseph to allow steamboats to connect directly with ocean-going ships. Before excavation on the canal began, the company decided to instead build a railroad. Construction of the roadbed began in October, 1835, before the company's charter was modified to allow it to build a railroad. An long rail line to Columbus Bayou (renamed Depot Creek) on Lake Wimico was completed in March, 1836. Horses and mules hauled the first trains, but two steam locomotives were delivered later in the year, and became the first steam power used on a railroad in Florida.\n\nLake Wimico was connected to the Apalachicola River by the Jackson River. The success of the railroad was limited by difficulties steamboats faced in reaching the docks at Depot Creek. The Jackson River had many hazards to navigation, and Lake Wimico was often too shallow when water levels were low. To provide a better connection for the steamboats, a new rail line was built from St. Joseph to a point on the Apalachicola River near present-day Wewahitchka, from St. Joseph. Construction on the new line began in 1837, and was completed in October, 1839. The town of Iola was founded at the terminus of the railroad. Besides the railroad terminal and a couple of warehouses, Iola had a steam sawmill, a gristmill, a post office, and a hotel. A yellow fever epidemic devastated St.Joseph in 1841, drastically reducing the population and commerce of the city. A hurricane later that year destroyed the railroad's wharf at St. Joseph. The railroad went bankrupt and its movable equipment was auctioned off in 1842. Both St. Joseph and Iola were abandoned.\n\nThe railroad was constructed with a track gauge, using wood rails with strap iron on top. The rail line extended onto a wharf in St.Joseph Bay, and onto docks at Depot Creek and Iola, to permit direct transfer of cargo between rail cars and shipping.\n\nThe West Florida and Alabama Railroad, incorporated in 1883, attempted to revive the roadbed, but it failed. In the 1920s the portion of the roadbed between Wewahitchka and White City in Gulf County became part of the Beeline Highway, a national auto trail, and now part of State Road 71. In 1910, the Apalachicola Northern Railroad used part of the old Lake Wimico and St. Joseph roadbed for a branch line to Port St.Joe.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081093", "title": "St. Joseph, Gulf County, Florida", "text": "St. Joseph, Gulf County, Florida\n\nSt. Joseph was a boomtown that briefly became the largest community in Florida, United States, before being abandoned less than eight years after it was founded. St. Joseph was founded in 1835 on the shores of St. Joseph Bay. A brief period of prosperity was ended by a yellow fever epidemic in 1841, and the abandoned remnants of the town were destroyed by a storm surge in 1844. The town site is in Gulf County, Florida, near the city of Port St. Joe.\n\nThe creation of St. Joseph grew out of a land dispute in Apalachicola, Florida. Early in the 19th century John Forbes and Company, a Scottish-owned trading company authorized by the Spanish government of Florida to trade with Indians, had pressured Creeks and Seminoles to settle their debts with the company by transferring title to large tracts of land in Florida. The transfers were confirmed as grants by the Spanish government. The biggest block of land, amounting to between the St. Marks and Apalachicola Rivers, became known as the Forbes Purchase, or Forbes Grant. The partners of John Forbes and Company sold most of the Forbes Purchase to what later became the Apalachicola Land Company before the transfer of Florida from Spain to the United States in 1821.\n\nEstablishment of the legitimacy of Spanish land grants in Florida made in the final years before the transfer of Florida required validation in United States courts. By the time that ownership of the Forbes Purchase by the Apalachicola Land Company had been confirmed in court in 1835, the town of Apalachicola had grown up on the west side of the mouth of the Apalachicola River. The land company offered to sell title to the occupied lots in town, but at prices that drove many residents to abandon their homes and move west to the shores of St. Joseph Bay.\n\nSt. Joseph Bay is a good natural harbor, while large ships had to anchor from Apalachicola, with cargo being transferred by barge between ships and the shore. On the other hand, St. Joseph Bay has no inflowing streams or rivers, and in 1835, had essentially nothing to ship out. The settlers of St. Joseph intended to divert cargo moving down the Apalachicola River, principally cotton and lumber, to the bay, bypassing Apalachicola. The Lake Wimico and St. Joseph Canal Company was chartered by the Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida in 1835 to dig a canal between St. Joseph and Lake Wimico, which was connected to the Apalachicola River by the Jackson River. Before excavation of the canal began, the company decided to connect Lake Wimico and St. Joseph with a railroad, and work was started on the roadbed. In 1836, the legislative council amended the company's charter (which become the Lake Wimico and St. Joseph Canal and Railroad Company) to allow it to build a railroad from any point on the Apalachicola River to St. Joseph. An long rail line from St. Joseph to Lake Wimico was completed in March, 1836, and the town became a shipping port.\n\nBy 1837 St. Joseph had become the most populous place in Florida, with an reported population between 4,000 and 12,000 inhabitants. (The 1840 federal census counted 125 heads of household and approximately 750 free whites in St. Joseph.) In 1838 the town hosted the first Constitutional Convention for Florida, which drew up a proposed constitution to be used when Florida became a state.\n\nSt. Joseph was originally in Franklin County. Calhoun County was created out of Franklin, Jackson and Washington counties in 1838, with St. Joseph serving as the county seat until the collapse of the city.\n\nSt. Joseph had a mixed reputation. It was regarded as a \"healthy and pleasant town\", and many residents of Tallahassee resorted there in the summer. A delegate to the constitutional convention in 1838 wrote: \"It was a striving busy place, its citizens full of energy and hope, fine buildings and hotels adorned the town and more were building.\" The same writer extolled the beauty of the bay. On the other hand, the presence of a gambling house, a horse racing track, bars, and the many sailors expected in a busy port, resulted in St. Joseph being called the \"wickedest City in the Southeast.\"\n\nIn 1839 the St. Joseph Bay Light was built and placed in operation on St. Joseph Point, the northern end of the St. Joseph Peninsula, to mark the entrance to St. Joseph Bay. The light remained in service until 1847, when the lighthouse lantern and other equipment were moved to the new Cape San Blas lighthouse. The old St. Joseph Bay lighthouse was washed away in 1851.\nStorms in 1837 and 1839 drove ships ashore and destroyed buildings. In 1841 a ship brought yellow fever to St. Joseph. The disease killed many of the town's inhabitants, and caused most of the rest to flee. Robert R. Reid, fourth governor of the Territory of Florida, and other residents of Tallahassee, died that year of yellow fever that they reportedly contracted while in St. Joseph. Of an estimated 5,000 inhabitants in early 1841, only some 500 remained in St. Joseph after the epidemic ended. A hurricane, \"The Late Gale at St. Joseph\", hit the town on September 14, 1841, destroying the wharf, but with the collapse of trade, no ships were in port. A forest fire later that year burned part of the town. In 1843 residents of Apalachicola moved many abandoned houses to Apalachicola. While many houses were dismantled for transportation to Apalachicola, some were placed on barges and floated intact to that city, where a few still exist.\n\nOn May 1, 1844, the USS \"General Taylor\" called at St. Joseph, and found a town largely deserted, with only a few residents preparing to leave, and some workers dismantling houses. Later that year a hurricane struck St. Joseph on September 9 with a large storm surge, destroying whatever remained in the abandoned town. Some who had regarded St. Joseph as a \"sin city\" interpreted the storm surge as a manifestation of God's wrath.\n\nThe area remained sparsely inhabited for the rest of the 19th century. After a branch of the Apalachicola Northern Railroad reached St. Joseph Bay about north of the site of Old St. Joseph in 1910, a new city, Port St. Joe, grew up at the port.\n\nThe only remains of St. Joseph are some tombstones in the Old St. Joseph, or 'Yellow Fever', Cemetery in present-day Port St. Joe - coincidentally located very close to the current office of the county health department.\n\nThe Constitution Convention Museum State Park nearby explains the role of St. Joseph in the early history of Florida government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081101", "title": "Apidictor", "text": "Apidictor\n\nAn apidictor is an instrument which measures and records the sound in a beehive. The instrument records the aggregate sound made by the buzzing of the bees' wings. They were thought to be useful for predicting when a colony is preparing to swarm.\n\nE.F. Wood invented and patented the apidictor in 1964. Only 300 are reported to have been sold.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081109", "title": "South Tyrol Option Agreement", "text": "South Tyrol Option Agreement\n\nThe South Tyrol Option Agreement (; ) was an agreement in effect between 1939 and 1943, when the native German speaking people in South Tyrol and three communes in the province of Belluno were given the option of either emigrating to neighboring Nazi Germany (of which Austria was a part after the 1938 Anschluss) or remaining in Fascist Italy and being forcibly integrated into the mainstream Italian culture, losing their language and cultural heritage. Over 80% opted to move to Germany.\n\nThe region of South Tyrol had been a place of contending claims and conflict between German nationalism and Italian nationalism. One of the leading founders of Italian nationalism, Giuseppe Mazzini, along with Ettore Tolomei, claimed that the German-speaking South Tyrolian population were in fact mostly a Germanicized population of Roman origin who needed to be \"liberated and returned to their rightful culture\".\n\nThe southern part of Tyrol, renamed \"Province of Bolzano\", had been a part of Italy since the end of World War I. After the rise of fascism in 1922, a policy of Italianization in the area was implemented ruthlessly. All places, down to the tiniest hamlet, were given Italian names, and even family names were translated. The process intensified in the 1930s, when the government of Benito Mussolini encouraged thousands of southern Italians to relocate to the region, in a deliberate attempt at reducing the indigenous German-speaking population to minority status.\n\nBetween 1928 and 1939 various resistance groups formed in the province to fight the fascist Italian regime and its policy of suppressing the German language. Children were taught the prohibited German language in clandestine catacombe schools and Catholic media and associations resisted the forced integration under the protection of the Vatican. The underground resistance movement, the \"Völkischer Kampfring Südtirols\", was formed by a Nazi party member, \"Peter Hofer\".\n\nOn 21 October 1939, Adolf Hitler and Mussolini reached agreement on the assimilation of the ethnic German minorities in the province. The members of these two language communities had to choose until 31 December 1939 between remaining in Italy and losing all minority rights, or emigrating to Nazi Germany, the so-called \"Option für Deutschland\" (option for Germany).\n\n85%-90% of the population opted for emigration; they were called \"Optanten\" and banded together in the \"Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Optanten für Deutschland\" (Association of Optants for Germany). Those who chose to stay, called \"Dableiber\", mainly banded together around local Catholic priests. The \"Dableiber\" were condemned as traitors while the \"Optanten\" were defamed as Nazis. The Option destroyed many families and the development of the economy of the province was set back for many years.\n\nThe first families left their homeland in 1939, and by 1943 a total of around 75,000 South Tyroleans had emigrated, of which 50,000 returned after the war.\n\nThe Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Optanten für Deutschland (ADO) (German for \"Association of optants for Germany\") was an association for German-speakers who had chosen to emigrate to Germany rather than stay in South Tyrol. The association was founded on 30 January 1940. Peter Hofer took leadership of the Association.\n\nIn September 1943, the Wehrmacht occupied the province and on 10 September 1943 the Operation Zone of the Alpine Foothills was established. The ADO was dissolved and joined with the \"Deutsche Volksgruppe\". Peter Hofer was chosen as the \"Volksgruppenführer\". Some members of the ADO joined with the South Tyrolean Volunteer Corps and were involved in the annihilation of the Jewish population in Meran. \n\nThey also attempted to arrest fleeing Italian soldiers and attacked those who had chosen to remain even though it had been expressly forbidden by the Third Reich authority. The relocation of people and the complete Italianization of the area were never fully accomplished.\n\nMost of the people who had emigrated returned to the area in 1945. Despite Austrian efforts, South Tyrol remained part of Italy after World War II, and many chose to take up Italian citizenship after the Gruber–De Gasperi Agreement of September 1946. It was named after the foreign minister of Austria (Karl Gruber) and the prime minister of Italy (Alcide De Gasperi) and agreed on Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol to remain part of Italy ensuring its autonomy. Those who returned had to register both themselves and their children, and they had to prove, by means of a birth certificate, that they had the right to Italian citizenship.\n\nAfter 1945, no ADO leaders were tried for the crimes (Peter Hofer was killed during an Allied bombing raid). Only recently have historians started to examine this period in the history of South Tyrol.\n\nAccording to the 2001 census, more than two-thirds (69.4%) of the population of the province speak German, 26.3% Italian and 4.3% Ladin as their mother language.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081110", "title": "David Charles (philosopher)", "text": "David Charles (philosopher)\n\nDavid Owain Maurice Charles is a Professor of Philosophy and Classics at Yale University. He has previously been Colin Prestige Fellow, and Professor of Philosophy at Oriel College, Oxford, and CUF Lecturer in Philosophy, Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University, and has been a Visiting Professor at the University of California at Los Angeles and at Rutgers University, New Jersey.\n\nCharles holds a doctorate (D.Phil.) in philosophy from Oxford University. His research interests lie in issues concerning meaning, definition and practical skill and interconnections between philosophy and psychiatry. He has published on Greek philosophy and on contemporary philosophy of mind and metaphysics.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081113", "title": "Lockwood, Huddersfield", "text": "Lockwood, Huddersfield\n\nLockwood is an area of Huddersfield, in the Metropolitan Borough of Kirklees, West Yorkshire, England. It is to the southwest of Huddersfield Town Centre, to the west of the River Holme.\n\nLockwood was originally called \"North Crosland\" and part of the Crosland family estate. However, it was taken over by the Lockwood family after a series of disputes between the dynasties. Parts of the area are still known as North Crosland.\n\nLockwood railway station is on the Penistone Line between Huddersfield and Sheffield. It is situated in Swan Lane, just before the Grade II-listed, 32-arched Lockwood viaduct, which spans the valley and connects the line to Berry Brow. Prior to the mid-1970s it had its own extensive goods yard, coal yard, sidings and station master's house.\n\nThe goods yards were used to service and supply raw materials to the former engineering works of David Brown Ltd. This particular division of David Brown's produced gearboxes for industrial machinery and hydraulic drives and some military armoured vehicles. The gear box that turns the top of the Post Office Tower in London was designed and built there, whilst the electric motors that drives the gearing were manufactured by Brook (Electric) Motors, based in Brockholes.\n\nA branch line from the station, just before the railway viaduct, went via Armitage Bridge and Netherton to Meltham. This passed Meltham Mills, where David Brown Ltd. had a tractor manufacturing facility. The former station master's house is now a private residence and the goods yards are part of a timber merchant's.\n\nLockwood is the manufacturing base of locally renowned Dixon's Milk Ices, housed in the former Lockwood Town Hall.\n\nThe Huddersfield Rugby Union Football Club, at Lockwood Park, is situated below and to both sides of the railway viaduct, in the former 'Bentley & Shaws' Brewery.\n\nTimothy Bentley, founder of 'Bentley & Shaws' Lockwood Brewery, is recognised as the inventor of the Stone Square system of brewing beer. This method allowed high levels of carbon dioxide to remain in the beer during fermentation, helping to give it a unique flavour and smoothness when served. The stone used in the brewery came from stone quarries in Elland.\n\nThe brewery was taken over by Bass Charrington before it closed down in the late 1960s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081115", "title": "Aerosucre", "text": "Aerosucre\n\nAerosucre is a cargo airline based in Bogotá, Colombia. It started operations in 1969 and operates scheduled international and domestic cargo services in Latin America and the Caribbean. Its home base is El Dorado International Airport, Bogotá.\n\nThe Aerosucre fleet consists of the following aircraft (as of 22 December 2019): Also refer to airliners.net and jetphotos.com\n\n"}
{"id": "2081117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081117", "title": "Castle Crags", "text": "Castle Crags\n\nCastle Crags is a dramatic and well-known rock formation in Northern California. Elevations range from along the Sacramento River near the base of the crags, to over at the summit of the tallest crag.\n\nLocated just west of Interstate 5, between the towns of Castella and Dunsmuir, Castle Crags is today a popular tourist stop along the highway.\n\nThe formation and surrounding habitats are protected by Castle Crags State Park, located on both sides of Interstate 5 at them, and by Castle Crags Wilderness Area of the Shasta-Trinity National Forest.\n\nAlthough the Northern Coast Ranges of northwestern California consist largely of rocks of volcanic and sedimentary origin, granite bodies (plutons) intruded many parts of the area during the Jurassic period. Heavy glaciation at this location during the Pleistocene eroded much of the softer surrounding rock leaving the towering crags and spires exposed, from which the Castle Crags pluton derives its name. Exfoliation of huge, convex slabs of granite yielded rounded forms such as the prominent Castle Dome feature of Castle Crags.\n\nSituated along an ancient trade and travel route known as the Siskiyou Trail, Castle Crags has witnessed dramatic events. Strained relationships between 1850s California Gold Rush miners and the local native Indian populations resulted in the 1855 Battle of Castle Crags, in which the poet Joaquin Miller was wounded, and which he later described in an essay of the same name.\n\nExploitation of the land by lumber and mining operations encouraged concerned citizens in 1933 to acquire much of the land, which would eventually become Castle Crags State Park. However much of the crags themselves are part of the Castle Crags Wilderness Area within the Shasta-Trinity National Forest, managed by the U.S. Forest Service.\n\nThe forested area of Castle Crags State Park was used by several native groups. The wilderness was the ancestral home to the Okwanuchu Shasta people. The Crags were also revered by the indigenous people surrounding them including the Wintu, Achumawi and Modoc people. Many features of the Castle Crags Wilderness are considered sacred to Native Americans including all of the streams, the Sacramento River, and the region's abundance of natural springs.\n\nDuring the 1848 California Gold Rush, miners flocked to California from all over the world, invading the original homelands and destroying the life-sustaining resources and environments of the native people. Thousands of miners invaded the Castle Crags Wilderness when false rumors of the fabled \"Lost Cabin Mine\" began to circulate in the region. This invasion led to the genocide, slavery and forcible displacement of indigenous people. Joaquin Miller wrote about the atrocities committed on the regions native populations during the 1855 Battle of Castle Crags, in one instance describing in detail a massacre of Native American women, children and infants who were ambushed by a mob of drunken settlers while they slept. More than two-thirds of the native California Indian people died as a result of the conquest, with its gruesome violence and contagious diseases—among them, many Okwanuchu Shasta, Wintu and Modoc people from this area.\n\nNative Americans utilized a natural mineral spring in the Castle Crags Wilderness which is known today as Castle Rock Mineral Spring, and is situated on the edge of the Sacramento River inside of Castle Crags State Park. The mineral spring is supported within a rock-built enclosure which was constructed by the Civilian Conservation Corps back in the 1930s. Today it still has a sulfuric smell and bubbles up from the ground. The natural mineral waters are widely reputed to have restorative, healing, medicinal and therapeutic properties.\n\nThe massacre of indigenous people from the Castle Crags Wilderness opened up the region for commercial and industrial exploitation of the land's resources, which are sacred to native people. The Castle Rock Mineral Spring was one of the earliest land resources seized after a genocidal campaign that eliminated Native Americans from this region. During the 1890s, the Castle Rock Mineral Springs Bottling Works was formed, and cases of the mineral water were bottled, sold and shipped all over the world to prestigious clients.\n\nCastle Rock Mineral Springs Bottling Works was founded in 1889 in Dunsmuir, California, United States. The company bottled natural spring water which was shipped all over the world.\nGeorge Washington Bailey operated a resort and a hotel across the river from the Castle Rock Mineral Springs. A footbridge provided convenient access for tourists from the hotel to the springs. People traveled from all over the nation to visit the resort and mineral springs, which were said to contain healing properties.\n\nThe company operated profitably until 1906, when the San Francisco earthquake ended its plans to further divide up and develop the area commercially. The company subsequently went bankrupt during the 1929 stock market crash.\n\nIn 1943 the State of California purchased 925 acres of the Castle Rock Springs property, which was the beginning of Castle Crags State Park.\n\nTwo native species of plants which are endemic to Castle Crags are: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081126", "title": "Gold Medal Books", "text": "Gold Medal Books\n\nGold Medal Books, launched by Fawcett Publications in 1950, was a U.S. book publisher known for introducing paperback originals, a publishing innovation at the time. Fawcett was also an independent newsstand distributor, and in 1949 the company negotiated a contract with New American Library to distribute their Mentor and Signet titles. This contract prohibited Fawcett from publishing their own paperback reprints.\n\nRoscoe Kent Fawcett wanted to establish a line of Fawcett paperbacks, and he felt original paperbacks would not be a violation of the contract. In order to test a loophole in the contract, Fawcett published two anthologies — \"The Best of True Magazine\" and \"What Today's Woman Should Know About Marriage and Sex\" — reprinting material from Fawcett magazines not previously published in books. When these books successfully sailed through the contract loophole, Fawcett announced Gold Medal Books, their line of paperback originals. Sales soared, prompting Ralph Daigh to comment, \"In the past six months we have produced 9,020,645 books, and people seem to like them very well.\" However, hardcover publishers resented Roscoe Fawcett's innovation, as evidenced by Doubleday's LeBaron R. Barker, who claimed that paperback originals could \"undermine the whole structure of publishing.\"\n\nIt was a revolutionary turning point in paperback publishing. William Lengel was the Gold Medal editor, and the art director was Al Allard, who had been employed with Fawcett since 1928.\n\nBeginning their numbering system at 101, Gold Medal got underway with Alan Hynd's \"We Are the Public Enemies\", the anthology \"Man Story\" and \"The Persian Cat\" by John Flagg. Writing about the demise of pulp magazines in \"The Dime Detectives\", Ron Goulart observed, \"Fawcett dealt another blow to the pulps when, in 1950, it introduced its Gold Medal line. What Gold Medal specialized in was original novels. Some were merely sleazy, but others were in a tough, hard-boiled style that seemed somehow more knowing and more contemporary than that of the surviving pulps.\" Early Gold Medal authors included John D. MacDonald, Charles Williams, Richard S. Prather, and Marijane Meaker (under the pseudonym of \"Vin Packer\").\n\nOther 1950 Gold Medal originals included the Western \"Stretch Dawson\" by William R. Burnett, the first lesbian pulp novel \"Women's Barracks\" by Tereska Torres (later to be followed by Marijane Meaker's \"Spring Fire\" and Ann Bannon's \"Beebo Brinker Chronicles\") and mystery-adventure novels — \"Nude in Mink\" by Sax Rohmer and \"I'll Find You\" by Richard Himmel. After Donald E. Keyhoe's article \"Flying Saucers Are Real\" in \"True\" (January 1950) created a sold-out sensation, with \"True\" going back to press for another print run, Keyhoe expanded the article into a top-selling paperback, \"The Flying Saucers Are Real\", published by Fawcett that same year.\n\nWith an increase from 35 titles in 1950 to 66 titles in 1951, Gold Medal's obvious success in issuing paperback originals revolutionized the industry. While MacDonald, Williams, Prather, Louis L'Amour, Richard Matheson, Bruno Fischer, and MacKinlay Kantor were joining Gold Medal's roster of writers, other paperback publishers were soon asking agents for original manuscripts. Literary agent Donald MacCampbell stated that one publisher \"threatened to boycott my agency if it continued to negotiate contracts with original 25-cent firms.\"\n"}
{"id": "2081132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081132", "title": "Antilocution", "text": "Antilocution\n\nAntilocution is a form of prejudice in which negative verbal remarks against a person, group, or community, are made in a public or private setting and not addressed directly to the target. American psychologist Gordon Allport first used this term in his 1954 book, \"The Nature of Prejudice\", to label the first of the five degrees of antipathy that measure manifestation of prejudice in a society as antilocution (see also: \"Allport's Scale\"). Antilocution is similar to the rather common form of betrayal in which a person \"talks behind someone's back.\", but antilocution involves an in-group ostracizing an out-group on a biased basis.\n\nThe use of the term antilocution is overshadowed by the term hate speech, which holds a similar meaning but places no regard on the fact that the out-group is unaware of the discrimination.\n\nThe term antilocution first appeared in 1954 in \"The Nature of Prejudice\", a book written by an American psychologist \"Gordon Allport\". Antilocution is the first stage of Allport's scale, a scale to measure the degree of bias or prejudice in one's society. Following antilocution, the greater stages of prejudice are avoidance, discrimination, physical attack, and extermination respectively. Antilocution is a compound noun which consists of the word locution and the word anti, to express a counterproductive way to employ locution.\n\nAntilocution is considered the least aggressive form of prejudice and represented by conversations of individuals in a society sharing similar opinions, which often are biased and result in negative reputation of the target of antilocution. Although this form of prejudice maybe the least aggressive, it nevertheless can be very destructive and life-changing for the subject. Those who employ antilocution may not be aware or consider themselves as involved in any discriminatory act. Antilocution is perhaps the most common form of discriminative act, and is more commonly referred as minor gossips or scandals. The subject may feel the need to join in with the flow or comedize it if the antilocution is employed by the majority. This can either create a place for the subject in the pack or lead to a spread of biased information through the society and can lead to negative modification in behaviors toward the subject, thus will significantly put the subject in a disadvantaged way both socially and mentally.\n\nIndividuals often engage in prejudicial conversation when they feel threatened and frequently is based on misperceptions and stereotyping of the subject. Antilocution often related to the fact that the subject is viewed as an anomaly to the group, for example the subject maybe a newcoming member thus no one actually know the subject so they judge the subject based on their perceptions and stereotyping, often involve racism, ethnic, or gender. Most individuals engaged in this type of behavior will most likely deny that their behavior is prejudicial in any way, and often indicate this as a matter of expressing their own opinions. This kind of treatment to antilocution is very dangerous in its own as it leads to a widespread in discriminative acts toward the subject as individuals feel little to no guilt in doing so. Facts are often needed to contradict misinformation and create a positive influence in the society toward the subject, or else opinions will continue to multiply and lead to further misconceptions, which can eventually lead to more serious forms of prejudice and discrimination and will harm the subject socially, mentally, and even physically if the problem worsen to a certain degree.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081137", "title": "Destruction Derby", "text": "Destruction Derby\n\nDestruction Derby is a vehicular combat racing video game developed by Reflections Interactive and published by Psygnosis. Based on the sport of demolition derby, the game tasks the player with racing and destroying cars to score points. The developers implemented simulated physics to make the results of collisions easier to predict, and they kept the game's tracks small to increase the number of wrecks. Versions of \"Destruction Derby\" were released for MS-DOS, PlayStation and Sega Saturn. A Nintendo 64 version, \"Destruction Derby 64\", was released in 1999 by Looking Glass Studios and THQ. Critics found \"Destruction Derby\" enjoyable and they praised its graphics and car damage system, but the Nintendo 64 and Sega Saturn releases received mixed reviews. It does not work fully on all PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3 models due to game save file issues. The game started the \"Destruction Derby\" franchise, beginning with its 1996 sequel, \"Destruction Derby 2\".\n\n\"Destruction Derby\" is a vehicular combat racing video game based on the sport of demolition derby. The game contains three vehicles. Collisions in the game affect the controls of each car, limiting their steering and maximum speed. Frontal collisions risk damage to the car's radiator, which causes the car to overheat and stop running. Four game modes are available: Destruction Derby, Wreckin' Racing, Stock Car Racing and Time Trial. In Destruction Derby, the player earns points by destroying other cars in a large, trackless arena called The Bowl; in Stock Car Racing, the player must finish in first place, and no points are awarded for destroying cars. Wreckin' Racing is a hybrid of the two, in which the player earns points both by winning the race and by destroying other cars. Time Trial is a solo time attack mode. The PlayStation version features system link play for two players, while the MS-DOS version has an online multiplayer mode.\n\n\"Destruction Derby 64\", the game's Nintendo 64 version, features updated graphics and an increased number of cars and tracks; and it adds new modes such as capture the flag. The game contains twenty-four cars and more than twelve courses. It also supports split-screen multiplayer for up to four players.\n\nThe British development studio Reflections Interactive began creating \"Destruction Derby\" for the PlayStation in late 1994. It was published by Sony Computer Entertainment's Psygnosis branch, which allowed Reflections to receive PlayStation development kits long before that console's release. The game debuted at the May 1995 Electronic Entertainment Expo, and its initial title was variously reported as \"Demolition Derby\" and \"Demolish 'em Derby\". Writers for \"Edge\" and \"Next Generation\" commented that the game could \"trounce\" \"Ridge Racer\" upon the PlayStation's release.\n\nTo make the results of car collisions easier to predict, Reflections implemented simulated physics into \"Destruction Derby\". Director Martin Edmondson believed that the game would otherwise be \"completely unplayable\", as with \"pool when the collisions are all off\". Producer Tony Parks noted that the physics were simplified to improve performance and to compensate for the PlayStation's digital controller, and that the team sought a balance between \"realism and playability\". Performance was also improved by optimising the game's graphics, and by reducing the level of detail of objects in the distance. \"Destruction Derby\"s game engine supports up to twenty cars on screen simultaneously, which no console racing game, other than \"Daytona USA\", had achieved until that time. However, a single wire-frame model, differentiated by texture maps, was used for every vehicle. Damage to vehicles is modelled in real-time, based on the speed and angle of the cars involved. The team made the game's tracks small to \"keep the density of the cars on the track very high\", which allowed for large-scale wrecks. Plans were made to support up to eight players with the PlayStation Link Cable.\n\n\"Destruction Derby\" was published by Sega and developed by Perfect Entertainment for the Sega Saturn, as part of a deal that also brought \"Wipeout\" to the console. This version lacks transparencies. \"GameFan\"s Ryan Lockhart estimated that the port was \"80% ready\" in the magazine's August 1996 issue, and it was released in August 1996. SoftBank planned to release the Sega Saturn version of the game in the US, along with Wipeout, Krazy Ivan, and Assault Rigs, however only Wipeout was released. A Nintendo 64 version of \"Destruction Derby\" was announced by the UK magazine \"CTW\" in 1998, alongside Nintendo 64 versions of Psygnosis games such as \"Wipeout\" and \"O.D.T.\". \"Destruction Derby 64\" was developed by Looking Glass Studios and published by THQ, under license from Psygnosis. At the time, Looking Glass head Paul Neurath said in a press release, \"We are delighted to have teamed up with THQ for the launch of \"Destruction Derby 64\"\". Aaron Boulding of IGN commented that the game \"had a tough time just making it to the N64\" during its 18 months in production, and noted that \"development duties [...] passed from Psygnosis to Looking Glass Studios and publishing [was] picked up by THQ.\" The game was released in October 1999.\n\nWriting for \"GamePro\", Captain Squideo called \"Destruction Derby\" \"the most raucous racing experience of the fall\". He believed that its \"graphics are almost all you could want for a game\" of this type, but wrote that \"nothing here stands out as graphically spectacular\". He complained that the game does not let players customise cars, and he disliked its lack of split-screen multiplayer. He summarised, \"Limited options keep \"Destruction Derby\" out of the winner's circuit, but this rowdy stock-car racer still generates a stadium full of thrashin' fun.\" Victor Lucas of \"The Electric Playground\" stated that \"the beauty of the game\" is the strategy involved in making \"calculated strikes\" against enemy vehicles, and he wrote, \"If you go all out and try to make big noise on the track, more than likely you'll be limping to the scrap yard in seconds.\" He believed that the game's Stock Car racing mode \"is no match for the white knuckle inertia of either \"Wipeout\" or \"Ridge Racer\"\", and that the demolition derbies in The Bowl were \"most fun to be had\" in the game. He praised the game's graphics and physics, and concluded, \"\"Destruction Derby\" is a winner in every capacity.\" A reviewer for \"Next Generation\" was extremely pleased with the concept of smashing into other cars, saying it taps into a near-universal fantasy. He remarked the single-player mode is indefinably \"lacking\" but the multiplayer offers unqualified enjoyment.\n\nThe PC port was also well-received. Lee Buchanan of \"PC Gamer US\" praised \"the spectacular visuals that bring to life the most jarring collisions I've seen on a computer\", and he noted that \"[car] damage is depicted beautifully\". Like Lucas, he wrote that the player \"can't just mindlessly smash into other cars; this is thinking man's destruction\". Although he found the game too easy \"even at the toughest difficulty level\", he found this to be a minor issue that did not detract from the experience. He considered the game's online play to be a high point, and he finished, \"\"Destruction Derby\" is a blast, and a welcome change of pace from high-end driving simulations.\" Peter Olafson of \"Computer Gaming World\" called the game \"a great simulation\" of demolition derbies, and he wrote that the wrecks are \"convulsive and realistic\". He believed that the game \"has never-before-seen quality that will instantly make it a showpiece game to demonstrate to open-mouthed friends and relatives\", and he considered the car damage to be \"especially marvelous—and unprecedented for this sort of game\". However, he found that its \"useful life span is surprisingly short\" and he hoped for a track editor in its sequel. He summarised, \"Despite its limitations, this is a great game, but it has a lot more potential.\" A reviewer for \"Next Generation\" remarked that while the game is a straight port of the PlayStation version, it is an impeccably accurate one. He applauded the authentic modelling of vehicle crashes, multiple modes, smoothness of gameplay, and inclusion of both network and modem options, and found the game's only downside is that the camera zooms out so little that it can be difficult to see nearby cars.\n\nReviewing the game's Sega Saturn version, Kim Randell of \"Computer & Video Games\" noted its \"inferior graphics\" that do not have \"the sheen and glossiness of its PlayStation counterpart\". Randell believed that it was made \"much too late to cause the kind of sensation that \"WipEout\" did. Comparisons with the PlayStation version are inevitable, and the rather haphazard conversion means that the Saturn version lacks the polish of its rival.\" Rob Allsetter's review in \"Sega Saturn Magazine\" (from the same publisher as \"Computer & Video Games\") recycled most of the text from Randell's review, including the closing remarks. Erik Reppen of \"Game Informer\" wrote that it \"doesn't seem fair to compare\" the Nintendo 64 release to the PlayStation version, and he complained that car damage does not hinder performance. He said that it would more accurately be described as \"\"Destruction Derby\" Arcade\". He found that the game was far too easy for \"experienced racers and big fans of the franchise\" to enjoy, and finished, \"It was fun, but I wouldn't buy it.\" Aaron Boulding of IGN believed that \"Destruction Derby 64\" came too long after the original version, and that it was \"a shadow of the outdated PSX game\". He complained about the \"bland backgrounds and flat textures\" and noted that the graphics are \"grainy\" and suffer from slowdown; but he enjoyed the car damage visuals. Boulding liked the split-screen multiplayer and called the new capture the flag mode the game's best aspect, but he concluded that \"even [these elements] may not make it worth a rental\".\n\n\"GameFan\"'s Levi Buchanan praised \"Destruction Derby 64\" as \"the best racer for the Nintendo 64 this year\", and he lauded its \"simplistic control\" as a remedy for the complex controls that he believed had \"ruined the PlayStation versions\". He liked its graphics but wrote that its music \"isn’t too hot\". Buchanan enjoyed its multiplayer component and wrote that \"the slowdown when all four join in is minima[l]—nice programming on the part of Looking Glass\". Although he complained that the game's vehicle damage is not \"segmented throughout your car\", he concluded by calling the game \"pure, unadulterated fun [that] has enough tracks and hidden vehicles to keep you playing for a very long time\". Jeff Gerstmann of GameSpot wrote, \"Graphically, \"Destruction Derby 64\" surpasses the old PlayStation games by quite a bit - not that that is a particularly hard thing to do\". He found that its framerate was adequate even in split-screen mode, and concluded that it was \"a better game than its PlayStation counterparts\". He finished, \"Give it a rent next time you're rounding up the posse for a day of gaming.\"\n\n\"Destruction Derby\" spawned the \"Destruction Derby\" series, and was directly followed by \"Destruction Derby 2\" in 1996. Later entries include \"Destruction Derby Raw\" (2000) and \"\" (2004), the last of which was developed by Studio 33. \"Destruction Derby\" was re-released through the PlayStation Network store in 2007.\nThe game was included on the PlayStation Classic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081141", "title": "Secret Chiefs 3", "text": "Secret Chiefs 3\n\nSecret Chiefs 3 (or SC3) is an avant-garde group led by guitarist/composer Trey Spruance (formerly of Mr. Bungle and Faith No More). Their studio recordings and tours have featured different line-ups, as the group performs a wide range of musical styles, mostly instrumental, including surf rock, Persian, Arab, Indian, death metal, film music, electronic music, and various others.\n\nThe band's name was inspired by the \"Secret Chiefs\" said to inspire and guide various esoteric and mystical groups, and is a reflection of Spruance's interest in such philosophies.\n\nIn 2007, it was announced Secret Chiefs 3 has always been a general name for seven different bands, each representing a different aspect of Spruance's musical and philosophical interests. The seven bands are Electromagnetic Azoth, UR, Ishraqiyun, Traditionalists, Holy Vehm, FORMS, and NT Fan. Spruance has stated that the sound collages of Electromagnetic Azoth serve as the center of Secret Chiefs 3.\n\nThe albums \"Book of Horizons\" (2004) and \"Satellite Supersonic Vol. 1\" (2010) were conceived as compilation albums featuring the satellite bands under their own names. All bands have appeared on at least one of these albums. Some satellite bands have also released records on their own. So far, five of the satellite bands have had tracks featured across a series of six 7\" singles and Traditionalists and Ishraqiyun have delivered full-length albums.\n\nSpruance formed the band in the mid-1990s with fellow Mr. Bungle members Trevor Dunn on bass and Danny Heifetz on drums. Some of the many musicians who have since recorded or toured with SC3 include violinist Eyvind Kang, percussionist William Winant, drummer Ches Smith, bassist Shahzad Ismaily, former Mr. Bungle member Clinton \"Bär\" McKinnon, and Estradasphere members Timb Harris, Jason Schimmel, and Tim Smolens. Musicians tend to float in and out of SC3, so the concept of \"current\" and \"former\" members isn't entirely applicable.\nBelow is a list of past and present members, guests and collaborators:\n\n\nThis is a list of all releases by SC3 and the satellite bands. The column \"artist\" states under what name the recording is released, not who is credited with the individual songs. Some releases, like the album \"Book of Horizons\", are noteworthy in this regard because they are released under the name Secret Chiefs 3, but the tracks they contain are each credited to a satellite band, giving the release the appearance of a compilation album.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081149", "title": "World Drug Report", "text": "World Drug Report\n\nThe World Drug Report is a United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime annual publication that analyzes market trends, compiling detailed statistics on drug markets. Using data, it helps draw conclusions about drugs as an issue needing intervention by government agencies around the world. UNAIDs stated on its website \"The use of illicit drugs needs to be understood as a social and health condition requiring sustained prevention, treatment, and care. This is one of the major conclusions emerging from the 2015 World Drug Report, published on 26 June by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC).\" \n\nThe World Drug Report is published annually by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). The first report was published in 1997, the same year the agency was established. The agency was tasked with the responsibility of crime prevention, criminal justice and criminal law reform. The World Drug Report is utilized as an annual overview of the major developments of global drug markets and as a tool to publish evidence-based drug prevention plans. There have been 19 World Drug Reports published since the original report was made public. \n\nOn July 9, 2010, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon appointed Yury Fedotov of the Russian Federation as Executive Director for the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime Leadership. In addition to his office of Executive Director for the UNODC, Mr. Fedotov is Under-Secretary General for the United Nations as a whole. Mr. Fedotov has been active in the UN since 1972, when he was a member of the USSR delegation to the United Nations Disarmament Committee in Geneva. Since then, he has championed international issues around global human and drug trafficking. In that vein, he strongly advocates for supporting counter drug trafficking by building upon regional initiatives by providing technical assistance. Mr. Fedotov also promotes the idea that successful drug policies that stem from the World Drug Report have the ability to develop entire economies. On June 26, 2015, he gave remarks to announce the release of the 2015 World Drug Report. In those remarks, he said, “The report also shows that successful projects can foster a sustainable licit economy, including the transfer of skills and access to land, credit and infrastructure, as well as marketing support and access to markets.” He uses his position as Executive Director of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to encourage UN members to support these programs and initiatives through funding under the premise that this funding will grow their domestic economies. \n\nThe World Drug Report relies mainly on data submitted by member states through the Annual Reports Questionnaire, which is revised and monitored by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs. These Member States are all required to submit national drug control related information to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime annually, although historically the United Nations does not receive a response from 100% of the surveyed Member States. The World Drug Report will be based on the submitted information from the prior year. If there is insufficient information submitted from a Member State or in other relevant circumstances, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime will seek information from additional, reliable sources, such as government sources.\n\nThere have been several attempts made to standardize and improve the reliability of information provided for the report. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime has noted many challenges in relying on the Annual Reports Questionnaire such as the difficulty of validating data, irregular data reporting by Member States and bridging data gaps. According to the 2015 World Drug Report, there was greater success in data reporting on illicit drug supply, 78% complete, as opposed to drug demand, 61% complete. The office has also noted budgetary constraints, as 90% of its budget is reliant on voluntary contributions. \n\nThe World Drug report is an extensive and comprehensive document. The first substantive piece of the report is the preface which is written by the UNODC Executive Director and gives readers insight into the purposes of publishing this research. Next is the explanatory notes which provides readers with definitions of the acronyms and abbreviations within the report. In addition, it notes how the UNODC distinguished borders in terms of international drug trafficking and that the UNODC measures drug values in United States Currency (USD). Next is the executive summary, which gives a heavily condensed overview of the findings of the report and includes data and graphs. Using the 2014 report as an example, data from the report is formatted in the following way:\n\nAfter the preface, explanatory notes, and executive summary, the World Drug Report has two main sections. The first section is titled “Research Statistics and Trend Analysis of Illicit Drug Materials” and has several subsections. There are subsections for the following categories: global extent of drug use, health and social impacts of drugs, regional drug use trends, overview of opiate data, overview of cocaine data, overview of cannabis data, overview of amphetamine-type stimulant data, and overview of psychoactive substances data. The second section is centered around a relevant topic as determined by information compiled in the accumulation of research and data. For example, the 2014 report’s second category is titled, “Precursor Control”. It contains the following subsections: an introduction, a description of precursor chemicals, the potential vulnerability of the chemical industry to the diversion of precursor chemicals, the response from the international community, trends in precursor chemicals, key precursors in the manufacturing of illicit drugs, and concluding remarks. After these two main sections, the report contains Annexes and a Glossary. \n\nOpioids, which include both heroin and legal pain relievers, were responsible for around two-thirds of drug-related deaths in 2017, World Drug Report revealed on June 26, 2019. The number for global Opioids users contained within the World Drug Report, some 585,000 people, is more than double the previous estimate. The study from the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), also shows that the negative health consequences associated with drugs are more severe and widespread than previously thought, with around 35 million people suffering from drug use disorders and requiring treatment services.\n\nThe report has now been criticized for its accuracy and the figures are said to be gross exaggerations of global market drug valuation. In their article, Measuring Global Drug Markets,Peter Reuter and Victoria Greenfield claim that the UNDCP overlooks factors like consumer-base (using numbers from a drug consumer base like the US, for heroin, to determine the flow and price, when in actuality they only constitute around 5% of the heroin globally, and at much higher prices than Southwest and Southeast Asia). Another fundamental problem with the drug data they cite is that it reflects not the “ trade flow but the estimate of turnover.” The article projects an estimated valuation number for global drug market to be at $20–25 billion annually which is a stark contrast to the UNDCP’s $500 billion.\n\nIn their book Sex, Drugs, and Body Counts: The Politics of Numbers In Global Crime and Conflict,Peter Andreas, Kelly M. Greenhill too argue that these figures may be, and in fact often are, distorted and manipulated. They write, “ Illicitness makes possible a politics of numbers.” Andreas and Kelly discuss how political actors may play with the numbers intentionally. They cite a few incentives for the inflation distortion and fabrication of numbers, one of the main ones being that the government or any NGO is viewed in a positive light, if it is seen as providing good security (high number of drug confiscations) to a big threat (the inflated number of drug trade).\n\n"}
{"id": "2081153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081153", "title": "Dublin's Q102", "text": "Dublin's Q102\n\nDublin's Q102 is a commercial radio station in Dublin, owned by Wireless Group which is in turn owned by News UK. It broadcasts on 102.2 MHz FM. The station is licensed to target the 35+ age group, and must provide hourly news, as well as current events programming.\n\nThe station was launched as Lite 102.2. On purchasing the station, UTV rebranded it to Dublin's Q102 thanks to research of Dublin people aged over 35, who decided on bringing back the name of a former pirate radio station.\n\nThe station's relaunch was orchestrated by former Big Brother UK contestant Ray Shah, who took over the station until it was relaunched. The take over involved a defacement of Lite 102.2's website and the constant playing of \"Mah Nà Mah Nà\" during the transition period. The station's Radio Data System PS name was changed to MUPPET during this time, before settling on Q102 afterwards. The first song played on the new Dublin's Q102 was \"Night Fever\" by The Bee Gees followed by \"What About Me\" by Shannon Noll.\n\nThe station broadcasts mainly adult contemporary music aimed at the 35+ age group. The station broadcasts news on the hour (half-hour at peak times) along with sports, traffic and weather updates. \n\n1. Presenters\n\n2, Management\n\n3, Production \n\n"}
{"id": "2081185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081185", "title": "AeroTACA", "text": "AeroTACA\n\nAeroTACA (acronym of \"AeroTaxi Casanare\") was an airline based in Bogotá, Colombia. It operated charter flights within Colombia and to neighbouring countries. Its main base was El Dorado International Airport, Bogotá.\n\nThe airline was established and started operations in 1965 as Aerotaxi Casanare, but changed to the present title in 1996 with the acquisition of larger aircraft. It is wholly owned by the Urdaneta family.\n\nThe airline was forced to cease operating in September 2005 following the crash of West Caribbean Airways Flight 708 in Venezuela. After the crash, the Colombian Civil Aviation authority required that all airlines undergo a special inspection of its maintenance facilities and aircraft. Aerotaca was one of three airlines forced to cease operating due to a failure of these inspections (along with Intercontinental de Aviación and West Caribbean itself).\n\nThe AeroTACA fleet includes the following aircraft (at March 2007):\n\n"}
{"id": "2081195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081195", "title": "Ásmundar saga kappabana", "text": "Ásmundar saga kappabana\n\nÁsmundar saga kappabana is the saga of Asmund the Champion-Killer, a legendary saga from Iceland, first attested in the manuscript Stockholm, Royal Library, Holm. 7, 4to, from the first half of the fourteenth century. It is essentially an adaptation of the German \"Hildebrandslied\", but it has assimilated matter from the Tyrfing Cycle.\n\nThe saga relates that Hildebrand, the king of the Huns had a son named Helgi, who was married to Hild, the daughter of the Swedish king Budli. Helgi and Hild had a son who was raised by his grandfather and named Hildebrand after him.\n\nHildebrand became a great warrior and was called the \"Hunnish champion\". When his father Helgi had fallen in a war, his maternal grandfather, the Swedish king Budli, was killed by a Danish king by the name Alf. This Alf took Hildebrand's mother Hild captive and gave her to the champion Aki with whom she had the son Asmund.\n\nWhen Hildebrand learnt of his father's death, he went to Denmark and slew Aki. However, Alf had a daughter to whom Asmund proposed for marriage. The princess promised to marry Asmund, if he avenged her father and killed Hildebrand.\n\nIn order to slay Hildebrand, Asmund went to Saxony, which was plagued by Hildebrand and his berserkers. During a series of holmgangs which took several days, Asmund defeated all Hildebrand's warriors.\n\nWhen Hildebrand heard of this, berserker-rage came over him and in his rage he killed his own son. Then he went up the Rhine to meet Asmund and when they met they started to fight. They fought well for a long time, until Hildebrand was severely wounded and his sword broke. Then Hildebrand sang to Asmund that they were half-brothers and asked him to be buried in his clothes.\n\nIn Gesta Danorum 7:IX.2-X.1, Saxo Grammaticus tells an essentially identical saga, but all the names have been changed and Hildebrand is called \"Hildiger\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081200", "title": "Yee Jee Tso", "text": "Yee Jee Tso\n\nYee Jee Tso (born March 10, 1975 in Hong Kong) is a Canadian actor.\n\nTso and his family emigrated to Canada when he was 6 months old. He grew up in a predominantly Jewish neighborhood and booked his first role at 15.\n\nHis television roles include \"The Commish\", \"\", \"Sliders\" (1995), and the 1996 \"Doctor Who\" telemovie, in which he played the character Chang Lee. His \"Doctor Who\" connection continued when he played the part of Doctor Goddard in the webcast \"Real Time\" produced by Big Finish Productions, the part of Major Jal Brant in the audio drama \"Excelis Decays\" in 2002 and the role of Warrant Officer Charlie Sato in 2011's \"Tales from the Vault\", 2013's \"Mastermind\" and 2014's \"The Screaming Skull\".\n\nRoles include Jared Chan, a programming wizard opposite Natasha Henstridge in the sci-fi thriller TV movie \"Impact\", released worldwide in spring 2009. In 2007 he played the part of child-devouring monster in the other-worldly horror film \"They Wait\", featured at the Toronto Film Festival.\n\nHe's played recurring roles on both sides of the law, in three award-winning television series \"Da Vinci's Inquest\", \"Da Vinci's City Hall\", and \"Intelligence\".\n\nIn 2001, he played Teddy Chin, a counter-culture computer genius, opposite Ryan Phillippe in the MGM feature film \"AntiTrust\". His other credits include: a series regular on the award-winning Canadian show \"Madison\"; recurring roles in the hit sci-fi TV series \"\" and \"Sliders\"; and guest appearances in dozens of other films and TV shows. In 2009 he appeared in \"\" as Nick.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081203", "title": "HMS Thunder Child", "text": "HMS Thunder Child\n\nHMS \"Thunder Child\" is a fictional ironclad torpedo ram of the Royal Navy, destroyed by Martian fighting-machines in H. G. Wells' 1898 novel \"The War of the Worlds\" whilst protecting a refugee rescue fleet of civilian vessels.\n\nTorpedo rams were constructed in the 1870s and 1880s after the ramming and sinking of the \"Re d'Italia\" at the Battle of Lissa in 1866 by the Austrian flagship, \"Ferdinand Max\". Despite the Italian warship being stationary at the time, the successful attack influenced naval thinking for the next few decades.\n\nThe result was specially designed low profile, fast, armoured vessels equipped with a ram or torpedoes, or both, intended for use where it was possible to approach an enemy ship without being sunk; for example, at night or in poor visibility, or where the enemy ship was stationary or disabled, or lacked support by nearby ships. As late as 1896, the United States commissioned a ship whose only effective weapon was a ram: the harbour-defence ram USS \"Katahdin\".\n\nThe Royal Navy's only example was HMS \"Polyphemus\", which entered service in 1882. Its primary armament was torpedoes, with four side-firing tubes and one forward-firing tube in the centre of the bow-mounted ram, like the eye of a Cyclops, hence the ship's name of Polyphemus. The ram was fitted in case the then novel underwater torpedo tubes failed to operate properly. After the ship successfully destroyed a harbour defence boom with her ram in 1885, the Royal Navy ordered two further ships of this class; but neither ship was built, probably because the deployment of quick-firing traversing guns made these vessels vulnerable.\n\nIn the novel Wells gives only a rough description of the ship, describing her thus: \"About a couple of miles out lay an ironclad, very low in the water, almost, to my brother's perception, like a water-logged ship. This was the ram \"Thunder Child\".\" A few paragraphs later, it is said that \"It was the torpedo ram, \"Thunder Child\", steaming headlong, coming to the rescue of the threatened shipping\".\n\nIn Jeff Wayne's musical adaptation, the ship is described as an ironclad but not specifically a ram or a torpedo ram; the album cover art illustration of \"Thunder Child\" is of a pre-dreadnought battleship such as the \"Canopus\"-class in combat with a Martian tripod. The ship is also depicted in art in the \"Classics Illustrated\" comic book adaptation of the novel, also appearing as a typical pre-dreadnought battleship of the era. The real torpedo ram HMS \"Polyphemus\" was fast, heavily armoured for her size, and capable of operating in shallow coastal waters; her hull was low in the water with a raft-like superstructure mounting six 1-inch Nordenfelt guns, again very much unlike a pre-dreadnought battleship.\n\nIn Wells' original novel the battle takes place off the mouth of the River Blackwater, Essex, where people from London are escaping the Martian offensive. Three Martian fighting-machines having approached the vessels from the seaward side, HMS \"Thunder Child\" signals to the main fleet and steams at full speed towards the Martians without firing. The Martians, whom the narrator suggests are unfamiliar with large warships, at first use only a gas attack, which fails, and thereafter using their Heat-Ray, inflicting a great amount of damage upon \"Thunder Child\", which brings down a fighting machine with its guns even as it succumbs to Heat-Ray. The flaming wreckage of the torpedo-ram crashes into a second fighting-machine, destroying it, and when the black smoke and superheated steam banks dissipate, both the \"Thunder Child\" and the third fighting-machine are gone.\n\nThe attack by \"Thunder Child\" occupies the Martians long enough for three Royal Navy ironclads of the main Channel Fleet to arrive. The fate of the third Martian fighting machine is not revealed by Wells, but the battle did enable the civilian shipping to escape. As depicted in the book, \"Thunder Child\" is the only human artefact competing with the Martian fighting-machines on anything like equal terms.\n\nIn the novel the episode concerning HMS \"Thunder Child\" is in \"Chapter Seventeen: The 'Thunder Child'\", ending \"Book One: The Coming of the Martians\".\n\nHMS \"Thunder Child\" is commonly omitted from adaptations or replaced with technology more appropriate to the updated setting.\n\nIn Orson Welles's famous 1938 radio adaptation of \"The War of the Worlds\", a Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress heavy bomber replaces the \"Thunder Child\"; it collides with a fighting-machine after being critically damaged by its Heat-Ray.\n\nIn the George Pal 1953 film the last-ditch defence against the Martians is an atomic bomb dropped by a Northrop YB-49 Flying Wing bomber; the weapon proves useless because of each fighting-machine's protective force fields.\n\nThe first adaptation to feature \"Thunder Child\" itself was \"Jeff Wayne's Musical Version of The War of the Worlds\", which was released in 1978 and retains the Victorian setting of the novel. The album features a song, entitled \"Thunder Child\", dedicated to this scene. The cover art of the album depicts a \"Canopus\"-class battleship in combat with a Martian tripod. This version of \"Thunder Child\" appears to be based on an artist's impression of the Battle of Coronel (1 November 1914), in which the two outdated British armoured cruisers, \"Good Hope\" and \"Monmouth\", were sunk with all hands off the coast of Chile by a German fleet of five somewhat more modern cruisers commanded by Vizeadmiral Maximilian von Spee.\n\nThe 1999 video game, \"Jeff Wayne's The War of the Worlds\", features a level revolving around the \"Thunder Child\". The player is placed in control of the ironclad itself and must sail it down a river while using its cannons to destroy Martian units and settlements; the level ends in a climactic confrontation with the Tempest, a powerful Martian war machine.\n\nThe only version to feature \"Thunder Child\" directly is the low-budget, direct-to-DVD Pendragon adaptation, released in 2005. This version uses poorly executed CGI to portray \"Thunder Child\" as a \"Havock\"-class destroyer.\n\nIn Steven Spielberg's 2005 film adaptation, \"War of the Worlds\", contemporary American military forces use tanks and helicopters against the alien Tripods, again without success. Earlier in the film, civilian ferries trying to escape from the Tripods are trapped and easily sunk, with no intervention by a military warship.\n\nIn the BBC's 2019 TV miniseries, the main characters join up again on the Essex coast, where many small boats are collecting civilians to take them to the ships. A Martian tripod appears and several warships open fire with their cannons against the tripod. Most of these ships are quite a distance from shore, but one of them, which could be the \"Thunder Child\" is much closer to shore. The tripod is hit on one of the legs and in the cabin, and shot down.\nA second Martian tripod appears on the beach, chasing the protagonists, but before it can use its heat-beam, it is hit and destroyed by the guns of the nearest warship. The tripod falls forward narrowly missing crushing the protagonists. As in the original novel the refugees manage to escape although none of the warships are shown being sunk.\n\nFor April Fools Day 2020, amateur naval historian and YouTube commentator Drachinifel produced a speculative history for the \"HMS Thunderchild\", offering what he saw as a plausible design and history for the ship and her development based on Wells' description. Based on the fact that the ship was described to be both larger and faster than the \"Polyphemus\" or the similar , he surmised that the \"Thunder Child\" was most likely a modified version of the \"Victoria\" or \"Trafalgar\"-class battleships that the Royal Navy would have fielded during the late 1890's.\n\nIn the comic book, \"Scarlet Traces\", a sequel set a decade after the events of the novel, the ship (spelled erroneously as \"Thunderchild\") and its efforts are remembered. One of the supporting characters is a survivor of the ship's destruction, presumably the only one who did so; there is also a monument dedicated to the ship's fight against the Martians.\n\nIn \"Sherlock Holmes's War of the Worlds\" the first mate of \"Thunder Child\" is said to have been the husband of Violet Hunter, a character from the Sherlock Holmes story \"The Adventure of the Copper Beeches\".\n\nIn the fictional universe of \"Star Trek\" a Federation \"Akira\"-class starship is named USS \"Thunderchild\" in honour of Wells' fictional ship, and fights against the Borg in \"\". Due to fan recognition, a physical model of the \"Akira\"-class \"USS Thunderchild\" was announced for release in an issue of the Eaglemoss collection \"Star Trek: The Starship Collection\".\n\nIn the computer game, \"\", the player faces a pair of destroyers during a mission, one of which is named \"Thunderchild\".\n\nIn the novel \"StarCraft: Liberty's Crusade\", one of the fleeing starships from the Zerg invasion is named \"Thunder Child\".\n\nIn the science fiction role-playing game, \"Traveller: the New Era\" (\"TNE\"), a Reformation Coalition \"clipper\"-class starship was named RCS \"Thunderchild\" in honour of the \"War of the Worlds\" vessel. The ship's patch, presented in the TNE sourcebook \"Star Vikings\", shows the influence of the Jeff Wayne image of the ironclad, combined with a 19th-century image of the Martian war machine. Details also appear in the TNE products \"Path of Tears\" and \"Reformation Coalition Equipment Guide\".\n\nA novel by Nick Pope, concerning the UK's response to UFOs, is named \"Operation: Thunder Child\".\n\nThere is an adaptation novel set in the Victorian UK of 1898. It is called, \"The Last Days of Thunder Child\" by C.A. Powell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081215", "title": "Dave Hemingway", "text": "Dave Hemingway\n\nDave Hemingway (born David Robert Hemingway, 20 September 1960) is an English musician and songwriter, and was a vocalist for the Hull-based band The Beautiful South until they disbanded in 2007. Previously he had been a member of The Housemartins.\n\nHemingway was born in Hull, East Riding of Yorkshire, to Harry Hemingway, a lorry driver and local comedian on the club circuit, and Flo Hemingway, who was one of Hull's best-known barmaids. In Hull's Henry Cooper School, Hemingway was in the same class as The Housemartins' future drummer, Hugh Whitaker. The two shared an interest in drumming, and one day, when the class were asked who would like to learn drums, they put their hands up first. Hemingway followed Whitaker into bands, first the Newpolitans with Dave Rotheray on bass, and then the Velvetones. Whilst at university in London Dave was drummer and a founding member of The Shoppers. It became a well regarded post-punk band (Steve Brain guitar/ lead vocals Maxine Tarte keyboards/ vocals Gavin Hearne lead guitar/vocals Christos Yanni bass/ vocals).\n\nHis break came when he got a call from Rotheray telling him Whitaker had left The Housemartins. Rotheray recommended him to Housemartins guitarist Stan Cullimore, who phoned him. He was working as a purchase ledger clerk at the time for the Crystal Motor Group. Hemingway quit his job on 6 March 1987, and soon found himself in the studio, recording the band's second album, \"The People Who Grinned Themselves to Death\".\n\nAfter the Housemartins disbanded, he and Housemartins founder Paul Heaton put together The Beautiful South from its ashes, featuring roadie and bassist Sean Welch.\n\nHemingway's first solo album, \"Hello Cruel World\", was released as a download only on iTunes. The album's title was inspired by Hemingway's experience recording in the capital.\n\nAfter forming \"The South\" in 2008, Hemingway along with Alison Wheeler from the Beautiful South line-up, released their first album since 2006 entitled \"Sweet Refrains\". The album, featuring songs written by keyboardist Damon Butcher and guitarist Phil Barton, was recorded and released in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081217", "title": "Multipurpose Applied Physics Lattice Experiment", "text": "Multipurpose Applied Physics Lattice Experiment\n\nThe Multipurpose Applied Physics Lattice Experiment (MAPLE), later renamed MDS Medical Isotope Reactors (MMIR), was a dedicated isotope-production facility built by AECL and MDS Nordion. It was intended to include two identical reactors, as well as the isotope-processing facilities necessary to produce a large portion of the world's medical isotopes, especially molybdenum-99, medical cobalt-60, xenon-133, iodine-131 and iodine-125. An operational license for the MAPLE 1 reactor was granted in 1999, and the reactor went critical for the first time soon after. However, problems with the reactor, most notably a positive power co-efficient of reactivity, led to the cancellation of the project in 2008.\n\nWith the completion of the NRX reactor in 1947, AECL's Chalk River Laboratories possessed the world's most powerful research reactor. While the large neutron fluxes available in the reactor led to advances in such fields as condensed matter physics and neutron spectroscopy, many experiments were carried out involving the production of new isotopes. The field of nuclear medicine developed when it was realized that some of these artificially created isotopes could be used to diagnose and treat many diseases, especially cancers.\n\nPioneering medical work done in the late 1940s and early 1950s established cobalt-60 as a useful isotope, as the relatively high-energy gamma rays produced when it undergoes beta decay are able to penetrate the skin of the patient, and deliver a greater portion of the dose directly to the tumor. The high neutron efficiency of the NRX's heavy water-moderated design, coupled with the high neutron flux of the reactor, made it relatively inexpensive for AECL to produce medical-grade cobalt-60. For example, the cost of the entire unit used to perform the first cobalt-60 treatment was about $50,000. By way of contrast, it would cost $50,000,000 just to produce enough radium (which had been previously used as a therapy source) to perform the same procedure.\n\nWith this promising start, AECL came to be a major world supplier of medical isotopes, using both the NRX reactor, and the NRU reactor, which came on-line in 1957. However, as these reactors began to age, it became clear that a new facility would be needed to continue the production of medical isotopes.\n\nIn the late 1980s, AECL began to acknowledge that continued isotope production would require the construction of a new reactor to replace capacity lost by the planned closing of the NRX in 1992, and the planned closing of the NRU early in the new millennium. Design work on a replacement, originally under the name \"Maple-X10\", began in the late 1980s.\n\nAs part of a restructuring taking place around the same time, the medical isotopes side of AECL was reorganized as Nordion in 1988. Work on the X10 project essentially ended at this point. Nordion company was purchased by MDS in 1991, and an agreement was reached between AECL and MDS Nordion that a new facility dedicated to the production of medical isotopes would be needed. A formal agreement was signed to begin the project in August 1996. Following a year-long environmental assessment, construction began in December 1997.\n\nThe design that resulted involved a facility with two identical reactors, each capable of supplying 100% of the world's medical isotope demand. The second reactor would function primarily as a back-up, to ensure that the supply of isotopes would not be interrupted by maintenance or unplanned shutdowns. This is made necessary by the nature of medical isotopes; many have short half-lives, and must be used within a few days of production. With treatments being constantly carried out around the globe, an uninterruptible supply was essential.\n\nThere has been some local opposition to the use of highly enriched uranium (HEU) in the reactor, as well as from activists in the United States who fear that the uranium could be stolen by terrorists and used to fabricate a bomb.\n\nOriginally planned to complete construction in 1999 and 2000, both reactors were instead completed in May 2000. An operational license was granted in August 1999 for the MAPLE I reactor, and extended to include the MAPLE II reactor in June 2000. Commissioning testing was begun immediately, with the MAPLE I achieving its first sustained reaction in February 2000, and MAPLE II following in October 2003.\n\nHowever, during testing, it was noted that some of the emergency shut-off rods in the MAPLE I reactor could fail to deploy in certain demanding situations. This failure was ascribed to workmanship and design issues, and related to fine metal particles accumulating in the control rods' housing and interfering with their free movement.\n\nIn addition, later testing found that the reactors have a positive power co-efficient of reactivity (PCR), which was in disagreement with the prediction of the modelling, and was a significant barrier to commissioning. A positive power co-efficient means that the reactor becomes more reactive when it heats up; in the case of an unplanned power spike, such a design can \"run away\" and potentially cause a meltdown.\n\nConsequently, significant efforts were made to resolve the outstanding issues, but progress towards commissioning the reactors was markedly slowed. During the subsequent eight-year-long delay in the start of commercial production, the project significantly overran its budgeted cost. The original budget was $140 million, but by 2005 it had already cost $300 million. Disputes over responsibility for the overruns between AECL and MDS Nordion added a further layer of complexity to the process. After considerable negotiation, AECL assumed full responsibility for the reactor in a settlement.\n\nThe MAPLE facility was granted an extension on its operating license on 25 October 2007, which would permit operations until 31 October 2011. This (final) submission envisioned that the MAPLE 1 reactor would be operational in late 2008.\n\nHowever, on 16 May 2008, AECL released a statement announcing that the MAPLE program had been terminated, as it had become \"no longer feasible to complete the commissioning and start-up of the reactors\". In this statement, AECL indicated that they would move to further extend the licence of the operating NRU reactor to continue the production of medical isotopes. The statement left unclear what long-term direction AECL would take for its medical isotope production business.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081221", "title": "The British Bulldogs", "text": "The British Bulldogs\n\nThe British Bulldogs were a professional wrestling tag-team consisting of cousins Davey Boy Smith and the Dynamite Kid (Tom Billington). They competed throughout the 1980s in Britain, North America and Japan and are consistently ranked among the top tag teams in history. Both Smith and Billington incurred premature deaths.\n\nTom Billington (Dynamite Kid) and David Smith (Davey Boy Smith) were first cousins from the Lancashire town of Wigan in the United Kingdom. Tom and Davey Boy are both grandsons of Joe and Nellie Billington. Tom's father, Billy Billington, was the brother of Davey Boy's mother, Joyce Billington Smith. In the 1970s, the Dynamite Kid and Davey Boy Smith both began their careers in Britain. The two were soon invited to join Stampede Wrestling in Canada by talent scout Bruce Hart. The Dynamite Kid went to Canada first and made a revolutionary impact in Stampede with his effortlessly fluid technical wrestling style, and had a fiery feud with his future brother-in-law, Bret Hart. Davey Boy Smith came to Stampede in the early 1980s. During their time together in Stampede, Dynamite and Davey Boy began a heated feud as Dynamite provoked Smith by saying he was \"a test-tube baby\".\n\nThe Dynamite / Davey Boy feud would continue in New Japan Pro Wrestling, where they became involved in a three-way feud that also involved The Cobra over the NWA World Junior Heavyweight Championship. After they settled the feud, the two started to team as the British Bulldogs both in NJPW and Stampede Wrestling. In March 1984, the Bulldogs would win the Stampede International Tag Team Championship for the first time. In 1984, the two left NJPW to go to its bitter rival All Japan Pro Wrestling, effectively severing all ties to New Japan to this day.\n\nIn 1984, Vince McMahon bought out Stampede Wrestling. The buyout meant that the British Bulldogs joined the World Wrestling Federation along with Smith's brother-in-law Bret Hart and Jim Neidhart (The Hart Foundation). Initially the Bulldogs still toured with AJPW, but soon after they became WWF-exclusive. Although the two British stars primarily wrestled against each other in Stampede Wrestling, with Billington as a villain and Smith as a hero, WWF owner Vince McMahon decided to make them only as a tag team.\n\nThe British Bulldogs' first and probably most well known feud was with the Hart Foundation, whom they knew well from their Stampede days, and thus were able to produce a series of outstanding matches that helped elevate both teams in the WWF. The Bulldogs next major feud was with the then-WWF World Tag Team Champions, \"The Dream Team\" of Greg Valentine and Brutus Beefcake. The Bulldogs wrestled Valentine and Beefcake for close to a year, coming close to but never winning the tag titles. The stage was set for a \"final\" tag title match at WrestleMania 2. With \"Captain\" Lou Albano and Ozzy Osbourne in their corner, the duo won the WWF World Tag-Team titles.\n\nThe Bulldogs continued their feud with the Dream Team and also defended regularly against the former championship team of The Iron Sheik & Nikolai Volkoff. In December 1986, Dynamite Kid suffered a serious back injury during a match in Hamilton, Ontario, forcing him out of the ring for a longer period of time (during this period Davey Boy Smith would defend the titles with various replacement partners). On January 26, 1987, the British Bulldogs lost the titles to the Hart Foundation in a match that saw Dynamite Kid so debilitated that he was carried to the ring by Davey Boy Smith and saw little physical action after being \"knocked out\" by the megaphone of the Hart Foundation's manager Jimmy Hart before he even got into the ring. “Evil Referee” Danny Davis then allowed the Foundation to continually double team Davey Boy in order to get the win (all the while continuing to \"check\" on Dynamite, leaving the double teaming to take place). The match would air on February 7 on WWF Superstars of Wrestling.\n\nAfter being given time off to recuperate, the Bulldogs returned to the ring to continue their feud with the Hart Foundation and Davis (who, in the storyline, cheated to help the Hart Foundation win the title). The teams met at WrestleMania III, where the Bulldogs teamed with Tito Santana to take on the trio. The Harts and Davis would win the match when Davis hit Smith with Jimmy Hart's megaphone behind the referee's back and covered him for the win.\n\nTowards the end of the Bulldogs' title reign, they had been given a live bulldog named Matilda, who would accompany them to the ring. Matilda was central to the Bulldogs' feud with The Islanders (Haku and Tama) who along with their manager Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan \"dognapped\" her. After rescuing Matilda, the Bulldogs teamed with Koko B. Ware (and his parrot \"Frankie\") in a six-man tag team match against The Islanders and Bobby Heenan at Wrestlemania IV. The match ended with a loss as Heenan covered Koko for the 3-count. The Bulldogs then went on to a feud with The Rougeau Brothers (Jacques and Raymond) which included wrestling the first ever match at the inaugural SummerSlam PPV at Madison Square Garden which ended in a time limit (20 minute) draw.\n\nThe Bulldogs' last pay-per-view was the 1988 Survivor Series. They wrestled in a twenty-man (10 team) tag team elimination match notable for Mr. Fuji turning against his Tag Team Champions Demolition (Ax and Smash) and joining their rival The Powers of Pain (The Barbarian and The Warlord) in a double switch with Demolition turning face and the Powers of Pain turning heel. The Powers of Pain won the match by eliminating the heel team Los Conquistadores, thus giving their team (which included The Bulldogs who had earlier been eliminated when Smash pinned Dynamite) the victory.\n\nThe Bulldogs left the WWF after backstage pranks and altercations with The Rougeau Brothers after bullying Jacques and beat him really hard because he didn't want to go out to the bar. which led to Jacques Rougeau knocking several of Dynamite's teeth out with a suckerpunch (Rougeau was actually carrying a bunch of quarters in his fist to make the punch harder). Billington himself, however, has claimed that the Rougeau incident was not the final straw that drove him to leave the WWF. Rather, he has stated, it was a dispute with WWF management over issuing of complimentary plane tickets, over which he resigned from the company on principle and, to his surprise in retrospect, Smith followed suit.\n\nAfter leaving the WWF, the Bulldogs returned to their old “home” in Stampede Wrestling and also resumed touring with All Japan Pro Wrestling, where they had moderate success as a tag team, but it was not as magical seeing these two wrestle there, as years of steroid abuse made them too large, physique-wise, and Dynamite Kid's back injury from years prior had made his previously exciting moveset more limited. They had feuds with the Cuban Commandos and Karachi Vice in Stampede and won the Stampede International Tag-Team titles for the second time on December 12, 1988.\n\nAfter losing the titles to Karachi Vice on December 30, 1988, Dynamite Kid became involved in a brutal feud with Johnny Smith in February 1989, after Johnny interfered and attacked Dynamite, before cutting his hair. In May 1989, the Bulldogs split up in Stampede, but remained a team in AJPW at Giant Baba's request. Over in Stampede, the Bulldogs feuded with each other, with Dynamite forming The British Bruisers with Johnny Smith and Davey Boy Smith teaming with a young Chris Benoit.\n\nIn September 1990, Davey Boy Smith abruptly withdrew the Bulldogs from AJPW's annual World's Strongest Tag Determination League by returning to the WWF, and fabricating to the All-Japan office that Dynamite was in a serious car accident and couldn't compete. Since Davey Boy Smith had trademarked the term \"The British Bulldog\" during the Bulldogs' previous run in the WWF, he decided to return to the WWF as The British Bulldog and would send people to the United Kingdom to warn the promoter every time a flyer was distributed promoting Dynamite Kid as a \"British Bulldog.\" As a result of these actions, Dynamite passionately despised Smith for a long time. Johnny Smith would end up taking Davey Boy Smith's spot in the World's Strongest Tag Determination League, and the duo (known as The British Bruisers) continued to compete in All-Japan Pro Wrestling. The duo managed to capture the All Asia Tag Team Championship, but the partnership was short-lived; the years of steroid abuse, working a high-impact style and cocaine usage caught up with \"the Dynamite Kid\" Thomas Billington as he suddenly announced his retirement on December 6, 1991, although he made the occasional comeback and wrestled his last match on 10 October 1996.\n\nAfter the breakup of The British Bulldogs tag team, Davey Boy Smith wrestled for the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) from 1990–1992, 1994–1997 and 1999–2000, and for World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in 1993 and 1998.\n\nDavey Boy Smith died of a heart attack on 18 May 2002 at the age of 39. The Dynamite Kid, who had been in a wheelchair since August 1997, died on 5 December 2018 on his 60th birthday,\n\nThe British Bulldogs were made into action figures, first in 1986 during the LJN WWF Wrestling Superstars line and in the mid 2000s Classic Superstars line by Jakks Pacific.They were available separate as well as packaged together. The Classic Superstars double pack even included their bulldog mascot, Matilda. Both versions are highly sought after by collectors and prices can be well over hundreds of dollars in mint condition especially for Billington, as figures of him were not produced as much as Smith, who gained fame in both WWF and WCW after the Bulldogs' split while Billington wrestled primarily overseas, most notably in Japan and whose career was cut short due to injuries. Many collectors who have obtained the figures consider them among their most prized pieces.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081227", "title": "Siau Island", "text": "Siau Island\n\nSiau is an island in North Sulawesi, Indonesia, located in the Sangir Archipelago approximately off the northern tip of Sulawesi in the Celebes Sea. It is the main island of the Sitaro Islands Regency of North Sulawesi Province.\n\nThe northern part of the island forms the volcano known as Karangetang (Api Siau), which is one of Indonesia's most active volcanoes.\n\nThe population of Siau island was 40,758 at the 2010 Census. The island has recently been noted as the home of the Siau Island tarsier.\n\nCommunities on the island include the town of Ulu Siau and the villages of Baru, Batuwawang, Bebali (Bubali), Beong, Hiu, Kahawungan, Kanawong, Korakora, Lai, Lehi, Ondang, Ondong, Paniki, Pehe, Peliang, Salili, Tempuna and Toto. The island is administratively divided into 6 districts of the Sitaro Islands Regency.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081230", "title": "Aytos", "text": "Aytos\n\nAytos has a rich and long history dating back to antiquity. An old settlement founded by Thracian tribes, archaeological finds near the town testify that its existence dates back to the 5th century BC. Throughout the centuries, the town has been known under different names including Aetòs (in Greek Αετός meaning eagle), Astòs (Αστός), Eidos (Είδος), Aquilia, Tchengis, etc.\n\nDuring the reign of Khan Tervel, the region was incorporated in the Bulgarian Empire for the first time. The fortress \"Aetos\" took an important part in the defensive system of the Bulgarian lands against the sudden attacks of the Tatars, the Avars and the Crusaders.\n\nIn 1206, Aytos together with many cities in Bulgarian province of Thrace was destroyed by the Crusaders, led by Henry of Flanders. Henry of Flanders was a brother of Baldwin I, emperor of Latin Empire of Constantinople. A fortified city was rebuilt at 1488. \n\nIn 1378 the town was conquered by the armies of the Ottoman Empire under Murad I. During the Russian-Turkish War (1828–1829), General Hans Karl von Diebitsch turned the town into a strategic strong point. After the Treaty of Edirne in 1829, many of the town's citizens fled to Bessarabia to join the Bessarabian Bulgarians.\n\nDuring the Bulgarian National Revival the population participated in the Bulgarian struggles for liberation. Vasil Levski organized a revolutionary committee in the town.\n\nAfter the Liberation, Aytos became a commercial center, reputedly more important than Burgas. The first girls' agricultural school in the country was established in Aytos during the period.\n\nThe geographic location determines the special significance of the municipality as a transport junction, where the road networks between Northern Bulgaria and Southern Bulgaria in this part of the country join. Important highways and the railway from Sofia to Burgas pass through it. Its good transport characteristics are also determined by the fact that it is only 28 km from Burgas, a key Black Sea port.\n\nThe town hosts the annual folk festival and competition Slaveevi Noshti, which takes place every Spring during the months of May and June. The festival is held at the \"Slaveeva Reka\" Recreational Park and it celebrates traditional dance and folk music from across Bulgaria.\n\nThe town of Aytos has 19,327 inhabitants as of December 2018. Most inhabitants are ethnic Bulgarians (68%), followed by large Turkish (17%) and Roma minorities (14%). \n\nEstablished in the early '50s, the famous Aytos Sports Academy “Vihar” has produced many national and international gymnastics champions including three-time international champion Silviya Kostova. The Academy has a soccer team as well -- \"Vihar Aytos\".\n\n\n\n\n\nAytos Point on Livingston Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named for Aytos.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081238", "title": "Shendi", "text": "Shendi\n\nShendi or Shandi () is a town in northern Sudan, situated on the east bank of the Nile River 150 km northeast of Khartoum. Shandi is also about 45 km southwest of the ancient city of Meroe. Located in the River Nile wilayah, Shandi is the center of the Ja'aliin tribe and an important historic trading center. Its principal suburb on the west bank is Al-Matamma. A major traditional trade route across the Bayuda Desert connects Al-Matamma to Marawi and Napata, 250 km to the northwest. The town is the historical capital of the powerful arabised Nubian Ja'alin tribe whom most of its denizens belong to.\n\nVery basic services and infrastructure mean that Shendi exists mainly as a center for trade in agricultural goods from nearby farms. \n\nRoads have begun to be laid cross the city. The railway station in the city is no longer used for passenger travel, although freight trains continue to use the tracks. Shendi is home to an airport (ICAO code HSND).\n\nMobile telephone coverage exists within the city, the neighboring towns of Al-Misiktab and Al-Mattamah, the outlying villages, and at the ancient Meroitic pyramids to the north.\n\nSchools exist within the town and local villages\n\nA UNESCO funded center exists within the town to promote education in foreign languages and Information Technology.\n\nShendi University is a public university that was established in 1994.\nThe university draws students from across Sudan to study there.\n"}
{"id": "2081239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081239", "title": "Muhammad Mohaqiq", "text": "Muhammad Mohaqiq\n\nHaji Muhammad Mohaqiq (), born 26 July 1955 in Balkh, is a current politician in Afghanistan, serving as a member of the Afghanistan Parliament. He is also the founder and chairman of the People's Islamic Unity Party of Afghanistan. During the 1980s, he served with the mujahideen rebel forces fighting against the Soviet-backed Afghan government. After the withdrawal of the Soviet Union in 1989, Mohaqiq was appointed as the leader of the Hezb-e Wahdat for northern Afghanistan.\n\nMohaqiq was born in 1955 and hails from Mazar-e-Sharif in Balkh Province. He is an ethnic Hazara, the son of Sarwar. He holds a bachelor's degree in Islamic studies from Iran. Mohaqiq speaks Persian, Uzbek and Arabic. He has been involved in Mujahideen activities after the April 1978 Saur Revolution.\n\nDuring the Afghan civil war in the early 1990s, he was regarded as a prominent leader fighting for his Hazara people. In the late 1990s, Mohaqiq joined the Northern Alliance (United Front) in their resistance and struggle against the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (Taliban). After the fall of the Taliban, he was appointed as the Vice President and the Minister of Planning in the interim government of Hamid Karzai.\n\nMohaqiq ran as a candidate in the 2004 Afghan presidential election. He came in third place with 11.7% of the votes after Hamid Karzai and Yunus Qanuni.\n\nA January 2009 article by Ahmad Majidyar of the American Enterprise Institute included Mohaqiq on a list of fifteen possible candidates in the 2009 Afghan presidential election. In the end, however, Mohaqiq opted to support President Karzai against his main challenger Abdullah Abdullah in the election.\n\nIn 2010, Mohaqiq stopped supporting President Karzai because of Karzai's policy of appeasement towards the Taliban insurgents. In late 2011, Mohaqiq, Ahmad Zia Massoud and Abdul Rashid Dostum created the National Front of Afghanistan (also Afghanistan National Front, ANF).\n\nFrom 2014 until 2019 he served as the second deputy of the chief executive Abdullah Abdullah, at the end of January 2019 he was dismissed by the president Ashraf Ghani under the Article 13 Item 64 of the National constitute of Afghanistan.But later he refused his dismissal and continued attending Official meetings with Dr. Abdullah Abdullah. \nDuring the 2019 presidential election, he was the second deputy of Hanif Atmar under the ticket Truth and Justice (Afghanistan) and then left the ticket and joined Abdullah Abdullah.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081240", "title": "Happy Songs for Happy People", "text": "Happy Songs for Happy People\n\nHappy Songs for Happy People is the fourth studio album by Scottish post-rock band Mogwai.\n\n\"Happy Songs for Happy People\" represents a further evolution of Mogwai's toned down, more electronic sound: all songs are based on electric guitars and live drums, but synthesizers are used frequently and often take the main stage on this album, with strings and piano also making the occasional appearance. The songs on the album are subdued, with the only exceptions being the towering \"Ratts of the Capital,\" and the closer \"Stop Coming to My House\".\n\nMogwai's usual vocalist Stuart Braithwaite does not sing on this album at all. Barry Burns (\"Hunted by a Freak\", \"Killing All the Flies\") and John Cummings (\"Boring Machines Disturbs Sleep\") accept vocal duties, however nearly all the vocals are heavily processed and incomprehensible.\n\nThe CD release of \"Happy Songs for Happy People\" contains a demo version of Cubase and the individual tracks for each instrument in \"Hunted by a Freak\" allowing remixing and reconstructing of the song.\n\nThe pre-release MP3s of the album circulating on the net had a sample of \"Happy Tree Friends\" cartoon main theme mixed in at the end of the last track. Some of the fans were frustrated buying the released CD afterwards and not finding the sample there.\n\nA computer animated video was released for the song \"Hunted by a Freak\", depicting a person throwing pets to their death.\n\nIn 2009 it was awarded a gold certification from the Independent Music Companies Association which indicated sales of at least 100,000 copies throughout Europe.\n\nThe song \"I Know You Are But What Am I?\" is used as the closing of Episode 8, Season 1 of the TV show \"Person of Interest\" and also appears on the Wicker Park motion picture soundtrack. The song \"Kids Will Be Skeletons\" was featured in the 2015 video game \"Life Is Strange\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081242", "title": "David White", "text": "David White\n\nDavid or Dave White may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081243", "title": "Multimodal interaction", "text": "Multimodal interaction\n\nMultimodal interaction provides the user with multiple modes of interacting with a system. A multimodal interface provides several distinct tools for input and output of data. For example, a multimodal question answering system employs multiple modalities (such as text and photo) at both question (input) and answer (output) level.\n\nMultimodal human-computer interaction refers to the \"interaction with the virtual and physical environment through natural modes of communication\", This implies that multimodal interaction enables a more free and natural communication, interfacing users with automated systems in both input and output. Specifically, multimodal systems can offer a flexible, efficient and usable environment allowing users to interact through input modalities, such as speech, handwriting, hand gesture and gaze, and to receive information by the system through output modalities, such as speech synthesis, smart graphics and other modalities, opportunely combined. Then a multimodal system has to recognize the inputs from the different modalities combining them according to temporal and contextual constraints in order to allow their interpretation. This process is known as multimodal fusion, and it is the object of several research works from nineties to now. The fused inputs are interpreted by the system. Naturalness and flexibility can produce more than one interpretation for each different modality (channel) and for their simultaneous use, and they consequently can produce multimodal ambiguity generally due to imprecision, noises or other similar factors. For solving ambiguities, several methods have been proposed. Finally the system returns to the user outputs through the various modal channels (disaggregated) arranged according to a consistent feedback (fission).\nThe pervasive use of mobile devices, sensors and web technologies can offer adequate computational resources to manage the complexity implied by the multimodal interaction. \"Using cloud for involving shared computational resources in managing the complexity of multimodal interaction represents an opportunity. In fact, cloud computing allows delivering shared scalable, configurable computing resources that can be dynamically and automatically provisioned and released\".\n\nTwo major groups of multimodal interfaces have merged, one concerned in alternate input methods and the other in combined input/output. The first group of interfaces combined various user input modes beyond the traditional keyboard and mouse input/output, such as speech, pen, touch, manual gestures, gaze and head and body movements. The most common such interface combines a visual modality (e.g. a display, keyboard, and mouse) with a voice modality (speech recognition for input, speech synthesis and recorded audio for output). However other modalities, such as pen-based input or haptic input/output may be used. Multimodal user interfaces are a research area in human-computer interaction (HCI).\n\nThe advantage of multiple input modalities is increased usability: the weaknesses of one modality are offset by the strengths of another. On a mobile device with a small visual interface and keypad, a word may be quite difficult to type but very easy to say (e.g. Poughkeepsie). Consider how you would access and search through digital media catalogs from these same devices or set top boxes. And in one real-world example, patient information in an operating room environment is accessed verbally by members of the surgical team to maintain an antiseptic environment, and presented in near realtime aurally and visually to maximize comprehension.\n\nMultimodal input user interfaces have implications for accessibility. A well-designed multimodal application can be used by people with a wide variety of impairments. Visually impaired users rely on the voice modality with some keypad input. Hearing-impaired users rely on the visual modality with some speech input. Other users will be \"situationally impaired\" (e.g. wearing gloves in a very noisy environment, driving, or needing to enter a credit card number in a public place) and will simply use the appropriate modalities as desired. On the other hand, a multimodal application that requires users to be able to operate all modalities is very poorly designed.\n\nThe most common form of input multimodality in the market makes use of the XHTML+Voice (aka X+V) Web markup language, an open specification developed by IBM, Motorola, and Opera Software. X+V is currently under consideration by the W3C and combines several W3C Recommendations including XHTML for visual markup, VoiceXML for voice markup, and XML Events, a standard for integrating XML languages. Multimodal browsers supporting X+V include IBM WebSphere Everyplace Multimodal Environment, Opera for Embedded Linux and Windows, and ACCESS Systems NetFront for Windows Mobile. To develop multimodal applications, software developers may use a software development kit, such as IBM WebSphere Multimodal Toolkit, based on the open source Eclipse framework, which includes an X+V debugger, editor, and simulator.\n\nThe second group of multimodal systems presents users with multimedia displays and multimodal output, primarily in the form of visual and auditory cues. Interface designers have also started to make use of other modalities, such as touch and olfaction. Proposed benefits of multimodal output system include synergy and redundancy. The information that is presented via several modalities is merged and refers to various aspects of the same process. The use of several modalities for processing exactly the same information provides an increased bandwidth of information transfer \n. Currently, multimodal output is used mainly for improving the mapping between communication medium and content and to support attention management in data-rich environment where operators face considerable visual attention demands.\n\nAn important step in multimodal interface design is the creation of natural mappings between modalities and the information and tasks. The auditory channel differs from vision in several aspects. It is omnidirectional, transient and is always reserved. Speech output, one form of auditory information, received considerable attention. Several guidelines have been developed for the use of speech. Michaelis and Wiggins (1982) suggested that speech output should be used for simple short messages that will not be referred to later. It was also recommended that speech should be generated in time and require an immediate response.\n\nThe sense of touch was first utilized as a medium for communication in the late 1950s. It is not only a promising but also a unique communication channel. In contrast to vision and hearing, the two traditional senses employed in HCI, the sense of touch is proximal: it senses objects that are in contact with the body, and it is bidirectional in that it supports both perception and acting on the environment.\n\nExamples of auditory feedback include auditory icons in computer operating systems indicating users' actions (e.g. deleting a file, open a folder, error), speech output for presenting navigational guidance in vehicles, and speech output for warning pilots on modern airplane cockpits. Examples of tactile signals include vibrations of the turn-signal lever to warn drivers of a car in their blind spot, the vibration of auto seat as a warning to drivers, and the stick shaker on modern aircraft alerting pilots to an impending stall.\n\nInvisible interface spaces became available using sensor technology. Infrared, ultrasound and cameras are all now commonly used. Transparency of interfacing with content is enhanced providing an immediate and direct link via meaningful mapping is in place, thus the user has direct and immediate feedback to input and content response becomes interface affordance (Gibson 1979).\n\nThe process of integrating information from various input modalities and combining them into a complete command is referred as multimodal fusion. In literature, three main approaches to the fusion process have been proposed, according to the main architectural levels (recognition and decision) at which the fusion of the input signals can be performed: recognition-based, decision-based, and hybrid multi-level fusion.\n\nThe recognition-based fusion (also known as early fusion) consists in merging the outcomes of each modal recognizer by using integration mechanisms, such as, for example, statistical integration techniques, agent theory, hidden Markov models, artificial neural networks, etc. Examples of recognition-based fusion strategies are action frame, input vectors and slots.\n\nThe decision-based fusion (also known as late fusion) merges the semantic information that are extracted by using specific dialogue-driven fusion procedures to yield the complete interpretation. Examples of decision-based fusion strategies are typed feature structures, melting pots, semantic frames, and time-stamped lattices.\n\nThe potential applications for multimodal fusion include learning environments, consumer relations, security/surveillance, computer animation, etc. Individually, modes are easily defined, but difficulty arises in having technology consider them a combined fusion. It's difficult for the algorithms to factor in dimensionality; there exist variables outside of current computation abilities. For example, semantic meaning: two sentences could have the same lexical meaning but different emotional information.\n\nIn the hybrid multi-level fusion, the integration of input modalities is distributed among the recognition and decision levels. The hybrid multi-level fusion includes the following three methodologies: finite-state transducers, multimodal grammars and dialogue moves.\n\nUser's actions or commands produce multimodal inputs (multimodal message), which have to be interpreted by the system. The multimodal message is the medium that enables communication between users and multimodal systems. It is obtained by merging information that are conveyed via several modalities by considering the different types of cooperation between several modalities, the time relationships among the involved modalities and the relationships between chunks of information connected with these modalities.\n\nThe natural mapping between the multimodal input, which is provided by several interaction modalities (visual and auditory channel and sense of touch), and information and tasks imply to manage the typical problems of human-human communication, such as ambiguity. An ambiguity arises when more than one interpretation of input is possible. A multimodal ambiguity arises both, if an element, which is provided by one modality, has more than one interpretation (i.e. ambiguities are propagated at the multimodal level), and/or if elements, connected with each modality, are univocally interpreted, but information referred to different modalities are incoherent at the syntactic or the semantic level (i.e. a multimodal sentence having different meanings or different syntactic structure).\n\nIn \"The Management of Ambiguities\", the methods for solving ambiguities and for providing the correct interpretation of the user's input are organized in three main classes: prevention, a-posterior resolution and approximation resolution methods.\n\nPrevention methods impose users to follow predefined interaction behaviour according to a set of transitions between different allowed states of the interaction process. Example of prevention methods are: procedural method, reduction of the expressive power of the language grammar, improvement of the expressive power of the language grammar.\nThe a-posterior resolution of ambiguities uses mediation approach. Examples of mediation techniques are: repetition, e.g. repetition by modality, granularity of repair and undo, and choice.\n\nThe approximation resolution methods do not require any user involvement in the disambiguation process. They can all require the use of some theories, such as fuzzy logic, Markov random field, Bayesian networks and hidden Markov models.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081247", "title": "Benn Jordan", "text": "Benn Jordan\n\nBenn Lee Jordan (born October 28, 1979) is an American modern jazz and electronic musician operating under many pseudonyms. Since 1999 his most widely distributed and electric music has been released under the name of The Flashbulb. Other names Benn has released as are Acidwolf, Human Action Network, and FlexE.\n\nJordan was born in 1979 and raised in West Englewood, Chicago, by his mother & grandparents. As an only child growing up in a derelict neighborhood, Jordan became an accomplished self-taught guitarist as a child. Due to being left-handed and not having lessons, he learned to play a right-handed guitar upside down, which he continues to do. He began his music career releasing instrumental music on small labels in the United States and Europe in 1996 under various aliases, most notably The Flashbulb. In addition to releasing music and touring, he began to work as a freelance composer for various television and film agencies.\n\nAs The Flashbulb, Jordan typically releases electronic or cinematic styled music. His style differs strongly between albums, but they all have a cohesive bond tied around intricate drum programming, jazz-influenced melodies, and a wide array of live instrumentation from various instruments Jordan has acquired. He also often records his melodies through MIDI-synced guitars. His guitar style and skill have gained attention because he typically plays the guitar strung backwards, and makes heavy use of fast sweeping and tapping. More recent Flashbulb albums have featured violinist Greg Hirte, who is also featured heavily on The Flashbulb's 2008 album, \"Soundtrack to a Vacant Life\". This album is, as Jordan stated in a 2008 interview, a step away from the breakcore genre. He also said that this step is likely to be a permanent trend in the direction of his music, a move that was supported by releases under his own name, such as \"Pale Blue Dot\" and \"Louisiana Mourning\". However, the 2012 album \"Hardscrabble\" represents a return to the harder electronic music heard on releases like Kirlian Selections or Flexing Habitual. The record is named for an area in the Bridgeport neighborhood of Jordan's own Chicago.\n\nUnder other aliases, Benn Jordan's work varies quite a bit. His Acidwolf and Human Action Network aliases feature retro acid music that uses old drum machines such as the TR-808 and relies heavily on the melodies of the TB-303. Tracks made under the FlexE alias tend to be laid-back and classic acid. According to him, he showcases his more fundamental, classical, and personal pieces under his own name, Benn Jordan.\n\nJordan has seen much success in composing for television and film. In 2006 he composed the original score for the Josh C. Waller short \"The Nail\".\n\nIn 2006, Jordan's music (\"Passage D\" from his album \"Kirlian Selections\") was featured in Dove's \"Evolution\" promotional campaign for its Campaign for Real Beauty website, which has drawn a large amount of attention from the mainstream media. The campaign took the commercial film winner at Cannes, as well as many other prestigious awards. In addition, Jordan was nominated for a 2007 London International Award for the \"Best Use Of Music\" category; he went on to win the ceremony's grand prize. In 2008, he was nominated again at the London International Awards for \"Best Use of Music,\" although he did not take the grand prize. In 2008 he was also a Webby Award nominee and took the Grand Prix at the Cannes Film Festival. In 2008, Jordan had completed work in branding, having created stings and trademark sounds for companies such as Dove, Verizon, and others.\n\nIn July 2012, he released an original score entitled \"The Universe\", which was commissioned by Chicago's Adler Planetarium for a new interactive exhibit dedicated to the evolution of the universe. In 2013, he was commissioned to score their show entitled \"Cosmic Wonder\". In 2016 he composed the soundtrack to the Adler Planetarium's sky show \"Planet Nine\".\n\nJordan currently composes for film, television, and gaming through various agencies; he also currently owns and operates his own production and recording facilities in Smyrna, Georgia.\n\nAfter the collapse of Sublight Records, instead of taking on another contract, Jordan purchased his previous licenses and released his most anticipated album, \"Soundtrack to a Vacant Life\", on his own record label, Alphabasic Records. On the day of its release, he personally uploaded copies of the album to music piracy sites, including a small HTML file explaining his relaxed views on file sharing and showing listeners where they could give support if they desired. This resulted in attention by the mainstream press, and the album became the most downloaded album on many popular file sharing networks.\n\nJordan has spoken extensively on issues of net neutrality, free speech, and copyright laws in the music world. In an interview with TorrentFreak, he encourages involvement in these issues and warns against corporations like Amazon or iTunes and their ability to stem the free flow of information. File sharing, to Jordan, is a way of bypassing this potential oppression and accessing information freely. In the aforementioned interview, Jordan notes that \"file trading is just a peephole to a much larger picture. Copyright, in its current state, holds information at ransom for monetary value. While in music it can stifle culture and art, with literature and education it can be nothing less than a weapon of class warfare.\"\n\nBenn Jordan was the founder and president of 32 Forty, a non-profit music education center located in south Chicago. The music center (now closed), extended services to help independent recording artists with publishing and licensing. In 2011, Jordan released a large collection of unreleased music, titled \"Old Trees (1999-2011)\" with all proceeds going to Unicef. Jordan is also an ambassador for Unearthed Pictures, a foundation dedicated to publicizing and stopping the sexual exploitation of children and funding safe houses in North America, Africa, and Asia.\n\nIn 2014, Jordan left Chicago and moved his home studio to an isolated home in Smyrna, Georgia. He trains and competes in mixed martial arts and Brazilian Jiu Jitsu in his spare time.\n\nJordan married his long-time British girlfriend, Nicola Jordan, in November of 2019.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081251", "title": "Hard-Fi", "text": "Hard-Fi\n\nHard-Fi are an English rock band from Staines-upon-Thames, England, formed in 2003. The band's most recent lineup before going on hiatus consisted of Richard Archer (lead vocals and guitar), Kai Stephens (bass guitar and backing vocals) and Steve Kemp (drums and backing vocals). Founding member Ross Phillips (guitar and backing vocals) left the band on 6 May 2013 but returned in 2014 to promote the release of their greatest hits album, \"\", and the one-off gig on 13 February 2014.\n\nThey achieved chart success with their third single, \"Hard to Beat\" and then followed by other successful singles such as \"Living for the Weekend\" and \"Cash Machine\", which all reached the top 15 of the UK Singles Chart. Their debut album \"Stars of CCTV\" was released on 4 July 2005, and although receiving critical acclaim (\"NME\" called it the 23rd best album of 2005 and it was nominated for the Mercury Prize and two Brit Awards; Best British Group and Best British Rock Act), it did not reach No. 1 on the UK Albums Chart until six months later on 22 January 2006. It originally entered the charts at number 6. The band's second album \"Once Upon a Time in the West\" was released on 3 September 2007 and reached number 1 in its first week. Their third album \"Killer Sounds\", which features the singles \"Good for Nothing\", \"Fire in the House\" and \"Bring It On\", was released on 19 August 2011 and debuted at number 9 on the UK Albums Chart.\n\nThey stated that they were heavily influenced by soul and dance music.\n\nRichard Archer decided to return to his hometown of Staines, crushed by the lack of success of his former band Contempo and the death of his father after his struggle against cancer. He said \"I moved back to Staines because I ran out of money and it was quite a shock.\"\n\nArcher claims that music business insiders tried to dissuade the band's manager Warren Clarke from managing him. When Archer asked his publishers for some money to record the new songs that he had written, they terminated his contract instead. \"People told him, don't bother with Archer, he's damaged goods, you're wasting your time.\"\n\nWhile Archer was making demos to produce an album, he went into the Staines hi-fi shop where Ross Phillips worked, simply so he could listen to his latest demos on the shop's best equipment. Philips apparently asked Archer who had played guitar on his demos and Archer said that it was himself. Phillips said it was \"shit\" and was therefore recruited to play guitar for the new group. Steve Kemp was already an old friend of Archer, while it took Kai Stephens little persuasion to leave his job as a \"pest killer\" at Rentokil. When Stephens played guitar before joining Hard-Fi, he liked to copy chords from bands such as Led Zeppelin and Pink Floyd who are two of his favourite artists along with The Clash and hip-hop acts such as Run DMC and N.W.A.\n\nThe band were signed to newly formed independent label Necessary Records, owned by Clarke. The majority of \"Stars of CCTV\" was recorded in a variety of unusual acoustic environments - in bedrooms, in pubs, and played back in their producer, Wolsey White's, BMW. 1000 copies of this record were pressed with only 500 going on public sale, and the initial plan was to sell 1000 each time. However, it quickly sold out, receiving critical acclaim and radio play, proving a lot more successful than the band had imagined. Most of the album was recorded in a disused mini cab office, which cost them about £300 and is known to this day as the \"Cherry Lips\" Studio. The band used to try to make their music sound more atmospheric by putting a microphone in the corridor to add echo; listening closely to the record reveals that this also picked up passers-by humming and whistling and the occasional aeroplane flying overhead.\n\nArcher desperately tried to generate publicity for the band through the \"Staines Observer\", to no avail; \"We sent them a press release and a photo,\" said Archer. \"The press release was all like, the hard-hitting sound of the streets and stuff. And the article came out going, 'Richard Archer, former pupil of Thamesmead School ...' Whatever you say, they seem to be most interested in what school you went to.\"\n\nThe band were then licensed to the major label Atlantic Records in December 2004, where they were given the chance to re-record the album in the renowned Abbey Road Studios, among other well known studios, however they went back to the cab office to maintain their sound.\n\nThe band were one of the acts opening for Green Day, alongside Taking Back Sunday and Jimmy Eat World on their two-day residency of the Milton Keynes Bowl in June 2005. Simple Plan were initially booked though cancelled only a few weeks before the show, and Hard-Fi were made as a last minute booking and opened on both days. Their debut album's launch party was scheduled to be 7 July 2005 at Cheekees nightclub in Staines, however this was cancelled due to the ill health of Richard's mother, and the London bombings also occurring that day. Her death resulted in the band pulling out of the Glastonbury festival. The launch party was rescheduled for 13 July 2005 and the venue changed to Ladbroke Grove, London.\n\nThe \"Stars of CCTV\" album re-entered the official UK album chart at No. 4 on 1 January 2006. Two places higher than it originally went in on the week of its release, the album climbed from No. 33. \"Stars of CCTV\" finally got to No. 1 on 22 January. The band's re-release of \"Cash Machine\" entered the official Top 40 singles chart at No. 14 on 1 January. The album has reached sales of 1.2 million copies worldwide and sales of over 600,000 in the UK alone.\n\nHard-Fi gained increased prominence in the UK when \"Stars of CCTV\" was nominated for the 2005 Mercury Music Prize. \"Stars of CCTV\" scored 74 out of 100 on Metacritic.\n\nIn February 2006, the band were nominated for two BRIT Awards, Best British Group and Best British Rock Act, alongside international superstars such as Gorillaz, Franz Ferdinand and Oasis. Richard spoke about the nominations, \"I don't think we'll win it, especially best group when you've got Coldplay, Franz Ferdinand and Gorillaz in there, they're kind of big hitters, but you never know, Burton drew with Man United\". \"Last week I would have probably said 'nah it's all rubbish', but now I'm nominated it's great but what is good is that there's a real wide spread of stuff there, but there's no Best Dance award and the urban category is more pop than what's quality.\"\n\nHard-Fi expanded the \"Cherry Lips\", their taxi cab office which they used to record, making more room for equipment after having searched fruitlessly for a space. Archer described the record as \"darker and more expansive\". A working title for the Album was \"Bat out of Staines\".\n\nThe first single from the album was \"Suburban Knights\", released on 20 August. The single had its first play on 18 June 2007, at 7:20 pm (BST) on Radio 1. The album \"Once Upon a Time in the West\" was released on 3 September 2007 when the band launched it at midnight in Virgin Megastore in Oxford Street, London with a live performance from a selected set list followed by a CD signing. The following day, the band performed at Maida Vale Studios to a small audience who earned their tickets through Radio 1.\n\nThe album cover of \"Once Upon a Time in the West\" has an orange background with the album title at the top, and \"NO COVER ART.\" written in large, white letters below. The artwork has received criticism, however, top cover art designer Peter Saville has described it as \"a 'White Album' for the digital culture.\"\n\nOn 9 September 2007, \"Once Upon a Time in the West\" went straight in at No. 1 on the UK Albums Chart, giving Hard-Fi a second No. 1 album. It received positive reviews including five stars from \"The Observer Monthly\" and four stars from \"Q\" Magazine, scoring 70 out of 100 on Metacritic.\n\nThe album was more popular than their debut album \"Stars of CCTV\" in other countries, as it reached Japan's Top 10 chart. Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and Central America began to show interest in the band as the first single from the album, \"Suburban Knights\", charted in all of their respective charts, reaching No. 5 in Peru, No. 3 in Guatemala, No. 2 El Salvador, No. 8 Mexico alongside their second single \"Can't Get Along (Without You)\" which spent two weeks on No. 1 in Peru and Argentina. On 10 March 2008, the third single, \"I Shall Overcome\" was released in the UK, where it reached No. 35, whilst making the top five in South America just like the previous two singles entering in at No. 4.\n\nDuring the 2008 Christmas period, Hard-Fi released a Christmas message to their fans announcing that they would be back in the new year with \"a wicked new album\".\n\nOn 2 February 2009, Phillips released a blog on the band's official Myspace page, saying \"me and the boys are now back in the cherry lips recording facility working hard on the new tunes. Sounding great by the way. We're really pleased with how the album's shaping up. Hopefully over the next few months we'll put some bits and pieces up for you to have a listen.\"\n\nOn 29 October 2010, Hard-Fi made a blog posting on their website stating that they were starting production on their new album.\n\nOn 14 February 2011, Archer posted an update on the band's Facebook page, which revealed that six of the eleven album tracks had been mixed. Producers that worked with Hard-Fi on their third album include Stuart Price and Greg Kurstin. On 7 March, Hard-Fi confirmed that they are getting closer to completing the album. Archer posted a status on Facebook, saying \"going back into the studio to mix the final tracks for the album, we've got two weeks booked to finish off and tweak a few bits and pieces from the last batch. Thinking about photos, a video, artwork and getting out and doing a few gigs - sooner than you might think.\"\n\nOn 28 April, Hard-Fi's latest single \"Good for Nothing\" was premiered on Zane Lowe's Radio 1 show receiving airplay as the 'Hottest Record in the World'. In an accompanying Archer announced that the album is called \"Killer Sounds\". On 7 May, \"Good for Nothing\" was featured on \"Soccer AM\"'s Premier League goals portion of the show. The single was then made available to listen to on Hard-Fi's official YouTube channel. Having been made available for listening on Hard-Fi's website since 22 May, \"Good for Nothing\" was finally released on 17 June and debuted on the UK Singles Chart at number No. 10 and on the UK Rock Chart at No. 2.\n\nThe second single to be released from the album was \"Fire in the House\" on 7 August 2011. \"Killer Sounds\" was officially released in the UK, Ireland and other European territories on 22 August and entered the UK Albums Chart at No. 9. \"Bring It On\", the third and final single, was released on 24 October 2011. Following unspecified legal difficulties, the album's USA & Canada release date was delayed until 15 March 2013.\n\nIn March 2012, Archer told Gigwise that Hard-Fi are hoping to release their next album in a shorter interval than the four years between \"Once Upon a Time in the West\" and \"Killer Sounds\", although no estimated release date was set. The band released some samples of studio material from their upcoming album via their official Facebook page in March 2013.\n\nOn 6 May 2013, the band announced via their Facebook page that Phillips was leaving the band to concentrate on 'different things'.\n\nOn 27 November 2013, it was announced that Hard-Fi would be releasing a greatest hits compilation album called \"\". The album was released on 27 January 2014. They also played a one-off sell out gig at the Bloomsbury Ballroom in London on 13 February 2014 along with Phillips.\n\nThe band hasn't released any music since and said on twitter they're on a hiatus when some people believed they had disbanded.\n\nHard-Fi's lyrics are based mostly on working class life, the band themselves coming from a self-sufficient suburban lifestyle in Staines. Most notable in tracks such as \"Suburban Knights\" (\"Those bills keep dropping through my door\") and \"Living for the Weekend\" (\"I've been working all week - I'm tired\"), while other songs such as \"Tonight\", despite still being about suburban life, focus more on ambitions. Some songs are also based on social realism, \"Feltham is Singing Out\" is inspired by Zahid Mubarek who was sent to the Feltham Young Offenders' Institution and was murdered by his racist cellmate.\n\nOther songs, such as \"Better Do Better\" and \"Move on Now\", are centred around the premise of how hard romantic relationships can be. Once Hard-Fi were becoming successful, Richard's mother died and the song \"Help Me Please\" is about how difficult it was for him having his dreams come true after many unsuccessful bands but realises he has no parents to share the joy with. Similarly, \"The King\" is about Richard returning to Staines and finding everything completely different, and realising everything of which he knew and loved had disappeared. He describes \"Little Angel\" as Christina Aguilera having a fight with The Clash in a Northern Soul club.\n\n\"Hard-Fi\" is the name given to the sound produced by Lee \"Scratch\" Perry, a reggae and dub artist, at his Black Ark recording studio. Being admirers of Perry's work, the band named themselves after his distinctive sound. Archer said \"Since then I've been desperately trying to find the biography where I read it; but I may have dreamt it.\"\n\nHard-Fi's first live performance was at Manchester's \"In the City\" music event in 2003 before they were signed to a record label.\nThey played London's Brixton Academy from 14–18 May, making them one of the few bands to play five consecutive sold-out nights there and the first to do so off the back of their debut album. After the success of the \"Stars of CCTV\" album and of hit single \"Hard to Beat\", it allowed them to end up in a mini-reunion of The Specials, performing \"Ghost Town\" with Jerry Dammers and Neville Staples at the Love Music Hate Racism gig. Mick Jones of The Clash is a renowned fan of the band, while Paul Weller came to their rehearsal rooms and jammed a version of \"Town Called Malice\", something of which Kaichen Stephens says \"gives us bragging rights over all of Staines\". All of these artists were quite inspirational towards Hard-Fi while they were recording \"Stars of CCTV\", perhaps The Specials and The Clash being the larger influences.\n\nMick Jones also appeared with them performing \"E=MC²\" by his former band Big Audio Dynamite. Jones had previously helped produce tracks by Richard Archer's prior band, Contempo who had recorded a cover of \"London's Burning\" by The Clash.\n\nHard-Fi supported Green Day at their two gigs at Milton Keynes Bowl, performing in front of approximately 65,000 people.\n\nDuring December 2005, the band played at London's Astoria. The performance was filmed and released \"In Operation\" on DVD. The performance features all the tracks on \"Stars of CCTV\" plus \"You And Me\" and the band's version of \"Seven Nation Army\" by The White Stripes. It also comes with \"CCTVersions\" – a CD featuring dubbed versions of album tracks, produced by guests including Roots Manuva and DJ Wrongtom.\n\nIn February 2006, Hard-Fi played the Hammersmith Palais as part of the \"NME\" Awards shows with regular early touring partners Boy Kill Boy.\n\nThe band played a series of sold-out, intimate dates later in July 2007 previewing the record. The UK Festival Awards nominated the event in the category for Most Memorable Moment.\n\nEach concert from the band's December UK Tour was recorded in its entirety on audio CD which could be ordered online through Concert Live or bought at the venue for £20. The CD was titled Once Upon a Time in December. It was bundled with the next single \"I Shall Overcome\".\n\n\nHard-Fi have their own video podcast, which is known as \"Hard-Fi: Rockin' the City\", available on their website, iTunes, Myspace page and YouTube channel. In 2007 \"Hard-Fi: Rockin' the City\" was nominated for \"Best Podcast\" at the Digital Music Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081252", "title": "Beneficiation", "text": "Beneficiation\n\nIn the mining industry or extractive metallurgy, beneficiation is any process that improves (benefits) the economic value of the ore by removing the gangue minerals, which results in a higher grade product (concentrate) and a waste stream (tailings). There are many different types of beneficiation, with each step furthering the concentration of the original ore.\n\nIron beneficiation has been evident since as early as 800 BCE in China with the use of bloomery. A bloomery is the original form of smelting and allowed people to make fires hot enough to melt oxides into a liquid that separates from the iron. Although the bloomery was promptly phased out by the invention of the blast furnace, it was still heavily relied on in Africa and Europe until the early part of the second millennium. The blast furnace was the next step in smelting iron which produced pig iron. The first blast furnaces in Europe appeared in the early 1200's around Sweden and Belgium, and not until the late 1400's in England. The pig iron poured from a blast furnace is high in carbon making it hard and brittle, making it hard to work with. In 1856 the Bessemer process was invented that turn the brittle pig iron into steel, a more malleable metal. Since then, many different technologies have been invented to replace the Bessemer process such as the electric arc furnace, basic oxygen steelmaking, and direct reduced iron (DRI).\n\nFor sulfide ores, a different process is taken for beneficiation. The ore needs to have the sulfur removed before smelting can begin. Roasting is the primary method of separating, where wood was placed on heaps of ore and set on fire to help with oxidation.\n\n2 CuS + 3 O → 2 CuO + 2 SO\n\nThe earliest practices of roasting were done outside, allowing large clouds of sulfur dioxide to blow over the land causing serious harm to surrounding ecosystems, both aquatic and terrestrial. The clouds of sulfur dioxide combined with local deforestation for wood needed for roasting compounded damages to the environment, as seen in Sudbury, Ontario and the Inco Superstack.\n\nBeneficiation can begin with in the mine itself. Most mines will have a crusher within the mine itself where separation of ore and gangue minerals occurs and as a side effect becomes easier to transport. After the crusher the ore with go through a grinder or a mill to get the ore into fine particles. Dense media separation (DMS) is used to further separate the desired ore from rocks and gangue minerals. This will stratify the crushed aggregate by density making separation easier. Where the DMS occurs in the process can be important, the grinders or mills will process much less waste rock if the DMS occurs beforehand. This will lower wear on the equipment as well as operating costs since there is a lower volume being put through.\n\nAfter the milling stage the ore can be further separated from the rock. One way this can be achieved is by using the physical properties of the ore to separate it from the rest of the rock. These processes are gravity separation, flotation, and magnetic separation. Gravity separation uses centrifugal forces and specific gravity of ores and gangue to separate them. Magnetic separation is used to separate magnetic gangue from the desired ore, or conversely to remove a magnetic target ore from nonmagnetic gangue. DMS is also considered a physical separation.\n\nSome ore physical properties can not be relied on for separation, therefore chemical processes are used to separate the ores from the rock. Froth flotation, leaching, and electrowinning are the most common types of chemical separation. Froth flotation uses hydrophobic and hydrophilic properties to separate the ore from the gangue. Hydrophobic particles will rise to the top of the solution to be skimmed off. Changes to pH in the solution can influence what particles will be hydrophilic. Leaching works by dissolving the desired ore into solution from the rock. Electrowinning is not a primary method of separation, but is required to get the ore out of solution after leaching. \n\nIn the case of gold, after adsorbing onto carbon, it is put into a sodium hydroxide and cyanide solution. In the solution the gold is pulled of the carbon and into the solution. The gold ions are removed from solution at steel wool cathodes from electrowinning. The gold then goes of to be smelted.\n\nLithium is hard to separate from gangue due to similarities in the minerals. In order to separate the lithium both physical and chemical separation techniques are used. First froth flotation is used. Due to similarities in mineralogy there is not complete separation after flotation. The gangue that is found with lithium after the flotation are often iron bearing. The float concentrate goes through magnetic separation to remove the magnetic gangue from the nonmagnetic lithium. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081255", "title": "Shorewood Hills", "text": "Shorewood Hills\n\nShorewood Hills may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2081260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081260", "title": "Lee-style t'ai chi ch'uan", "text": "Lee-style t'ai chi ch'uan\n\nThe Lee style of t'ai chi ch'uan (李氏太極拳) is closely related to a range of disciplines of Taoist Arts taught within the Lee style including Qigong, Tao Yin, Ch'ang Ming, Traditional Chinese Medicine, Taoist alchemy, Feng Shou Kung Fu, and weapons practice. According to practitioners, it was first brought to the West in the 1930s by Chan Kam Lee and was subsequently popularized by Chee Soo who was the President of the International Taoist Society from 1958 until his death in 1994.\nThe Lee style of t'ai chi ch'uan comprises two forms known as 'the dance' or Tiào wǔ 跳舞, and 'the form'. Other exercises include I Fu Shou or 'sticky hands', Whirling Hands, Whirling Arms, and various qi and Li development exercises.\nLee style t'ai chi is related to Martial Arts training, and there are five distinct areas of development that comprise the whole Art:\n\nAccording to Chee Soo the Lee style is the only true Taoist art and the oldest form of T'ai Chi Ch'uan in existence. It is derived from an original set of eight movements created by Ho-Hsieh Lee from Beijing at the beginning of the Western Zhou dynasty around 1000 BC. His family moved to a fishing village called Weihaiwei on the East coast of China in Shandong Province and settled there and practised a range of Taoist Arts. The techniques were passed on from one generation to the next and kept within the family until the last in their line, Chan Kam Lee, fled the war torn China of the 1930s and emigrated to London to establish a business in the jewel trade. Here he met and adopted a young orphan named Chee Soo, and he passed the techniques on to him as he had no children of his own.\n\nIn 1977 Chee Soo was interviewed by Brian Hayes on LBC radio and talked about Lee style T'ai Chi Ch'uan, and meeting his teacher Chan Kam Lee:\n\n\"Chee Soo\": It's rather curious, by a very strange coincidence, probably another Chinese fairy tale really. When I left Doctor Barnardo homes at fourteen years of age I became a page boy in Earl's Court in a nursing home, and I used to go over to Hyde Park and have a kick around on my day off on Sundays, and I happened to be playing with my ball when my ball actually hit the back of the head of a gentleman sitting on a park bench.\n\n\"Interviewer\": Who was doing these gentle movements.\n\n\"Chee Soo\": No he was sitting there, just sitting there very quietly, and I went over to retrieve my ball, and I came up to the front of him to apologise, and I saw he was Chinese, and we got talking and he was an importer/exporter, very much alone he had no family, and I was of course actually an orphan and having no family of my own, and the friendship gradually grew and grew, and till eventually in actual fact after many meetings he invited me to his club in Holborn, Red Lion Square, which he had a little club meeting three or four times a week, and from then on I practised under him almost continuously.\nAccording to a British Movietone News documentary filmed on 21 May 1970 at Guildford in Surrey - UK, Chee Soo had over 2000 students studying Wu Shu in Britain as part of the British Wu Shu Association.\n\nIn 1976 a book about Lee style T'ai Chi Ch'uan written by Chee Soo was published entitled \"The Chinese Art of T'ai Chi Ch'uan\" which describes the history and philosophy of the style in detail including descriptions of each aspect of the Art with photographs and descriptions of the Lee style T'ai Chi form. Chee Soo wrote several books about the various aspects of the Lee style Taoist Arts published by HarperCollins which became best-sellers and were subsequently licensed by HarperCollins to other major international publishers and translated into various languages including French (distributed in Canada, France, Belgium, Switzerland, Portugal), German, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese (Brazilian), Polish, and Indonesian.\n\nAccording to an interview with Marilyn Soo - Chee Soo's widow and the President of the International Taoist Society - Chee Soo moved to Coventry in the 1980s and trained a group of teachers to continue his work teaching the Lee style Taoist Arts.\n\nSince his death in August 1994 there are now several schools teaching the Lee style T'ai Chi based in the British Isles each of which emphasise different aspects of the Lee style Taoist Arts.\n\nThe emblem of the Lee family is the Seahorse which represents Yin within Yang as it is the only creature where the male incubates and gives birth to the offspring.\n\nChee Soo's T'ai Chi classes invariably included Qigong or energy cultivation, and Tao Yin or breathing exercises. The Lee style qigong exercises are called K'ai Men (开门) or 'Open Door'. Chee Soo wrote a book published by HarperCollins in 1983 under the title \"Chinese Yoga\" (later re-titled \"Taoist Yoga\"), which was devoted entirely to this aspect of the Arts. This book contains details of Taoist alchemy energy cultivation methods involving deep breathing into the dantian or \"Golden Stove\" or \"Lower Cauldron\" in order to stimulate the flow of Chi or internal energy, circulating it through various energy centres located along the meridians and vessels which are usually associated with acupuncture and known as the Microcosmic orbit. Various types of breathing exercises are described and categorized in terms of Yin and Yang breathing and recommendations are given in terms of regulating the body in accordance with the peak of energy flowing through each organ and its corresponding line of meridian depending on the time of day and season of the year. There are also various recommendations for constant good health regarding the Chang Ming diet or Chinese food therapy based on the underlying principles of Traditional Chinese Medicine. \nAn important aspect of this style of qigong is that it not only deals with qi or internal energy but also teaches the practitioner to supplement their personal store of ch'i with energy drawn from the energy field of the Universe itself which Chee Soo called external energy or 'Ching Sheng Li' (jīng shēng lì 精生力).\n\nThe Lee style includes a number of \"forms\" comprising set sequences of movements. These movements are based upon fourteen basic stances which are named after animal movements. These stances are also grouped into sequences with names like \"Drive the Tiger Away\" and \"The Fair Lady Weaving\". The movements can be performed at various speeds and may be timed with breathing. There are two forms known as the T'ai Chi Dance or which Chee Soo referred to as Tiàowǔ 跳舞 and he said was about 400 years old, and the T'ai Chi form itself known as 'The Form'. The etymology of the Chinese ideogram Wu 舞 suggests that the Lee style T'ai Chi dance may have its origins in Wu shamanism. The dance is 185 stances or steps long whereas the form is 140 stances split into 42 sequences.\n\nThe Lee style also includes various interactive exercises, the most important of which is called I Fu Shou or 'sticky hands'; similar to the pushing hands exercises that are seen in other T'ai Chi styles. Two people stand opposite each other making contact on the back of the wrist and move in circles gently testing each other's balance. The emphasis is on sensitivity and yielding to force.\n\nI Fu Shou is an exercise in which two people participate. Each person tries to upset the balance of the other whilst maintaining their own stability. Contact is through the arms and hands throughout the exercise. No matter what stance is adopted, there may always be a weakness in the balance of the body whether one moves left or right, backward or forward, upward or downward, and it is by taking advantage of these six directional weaknesses that the participants in I Fu Shou try to ‘uproot’ each other - to cause the other to lose their footing. The most difficult way to do this is to lift the other off the ground, but even this may be achieved provided that one has practiced diligently and developed a faultless technique.\n\nA full description is available to read online on Chee Soo's publisher's website.\n\nWhirling Arms and Whirling Hands are the two exercises in the Lee style of T'ai Chi Ch'uan which are used to teach basic principles of self-defence.\n\nLike I fou shou, Whirling Arms (Lun Pei) and Whirling Hands (Lun Shou) encourage the development of quick mental and physical reactions and a high level of sensitivity. Both are characterized, as their names suggest, by circular movements of the arms and hands.\nThe two arts include techniques to ward off, parry and deflect thrusts which may be made towards your body, and with constant practise you can develop the ability to recognize your partner's intentions before they are carried out. You will learn how to feel and exploit the weaknesses in their movements and postures, and in so doing you will come to understand your own weaknesses and develop greater concentration and awareness. You will build the foundations for a stronger balance, learn how to synchronize your body movements, and become much more sensitive and perceptive. In addition to all these, the control and utilization of your Ch'i energy plays a very big part in your practise.\n\nT’ai Chi Sword \nAccording to Master Chee Soo in his book about the Lee style T'ai Chi Ch'uan:\n\nT'ai Chi sword makes full use of the combined techniques of Whirling Hands and Whirling Arms, but these are made more difficult by the weight and length of the sword. Greater mental concentration is required to retain complete control of the arms, wrists and hands, while maintaining perfect balance, especially in a few sequences where the body makes a complete whirl to demonstrate the 'order of the universe'...the 'Sword' form, which comprises 216 movements, has no straight lines\nT'ai Chi stick \nLee style T'ai Chi stick comprises a form of 270 movements. The T'ai Chi stick is a staff approximately six feet long.\n\nChee Soo wrote six books about the Lee Style Taoist Arts\n\n"}
{"id": "2081263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081263", "title": "Hugues Lapointe", "text": "Hugues Lapointe\n\nHugues Lapointe (March 3, 1911 – November 13, 1982) was a Canadian lawyer, Member of Parliament and Lieutenant Governor of Quebec from 1966 to 1978.\n\nBorn in Rivière-du-Loup, Quebec, the son of the Canadian Member of Parliament Ernest Lapointe and Emma Pratte, he studied at the University of Ottawa and Université Laval. He was admitted to the Quebec Bar in 1935. He practised law from 1936 to 1961. He served during World War II and achieved the rank of lieutenant colonel.\n\nHe was elected as a Liberal in the 1940 federal election in the Quebec riding of Lotbinière. He was re-elected in the 1945, 1949, and 1953 elections. He was defeated in the 1957 election.\n\nHe held three cabinet positions: Solicitor General of Canada (1949–1950), Minister of Veterans Affairs (1950–1957), and Postmaster General (1955–1957).\n\nIn 1979, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada.\n\nHe was married to Marie-Lucette Valin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081267", "title": "Multimodal browser", "text": "Multimodal browser\n\nA multimodal browser is one which allows multimodal interaction for input and/or output - for example, keyboard and voice interfaces. Examples include Opera and NetFront.\n"}
{"id": "2081289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081289", "title": "Search marketing", "text": "Search marketing\n\nSearch Marketing is the process of acquiring traffic or customers via search engines such as Google, Bing, Yahoo and others. Search marketing generally involves two disciplines: SEO (search engine optimization) and SEM (search engine marketing). Originally called “search engine marketing,” the shorter phrase “search marketing” is now often used as the umbrella term over SEO and SEM. The longer phrase \"search engine marketing\" — or SEM — is now typically used to describe paid search activities.\n"}
{"id": "2081295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081295", "title": "Police cadets in the United Kingdom", "text": "Police cadets in the United Kingdom\n\nVolunteer Police Cadets (VPC) is a nationally recognised police uniformed youth organisation which operates in most parts of the United Kingdom. It is one of several Cadet youth organisations including the Army Cadet Force, Sea Cadets, Royal Marine Cadets, Air Training Corps and Fire Cadets. The Police Cadets teach young people skills in policing, and some may assist police officers with low-risk activities. The purpose of the VPC is not to recruit police officers of the future, but to encourage the spirit of adventure and good citizenship among its members.\n\nThe Police Cadets were founded in their current form by the Metropolitan Police Service in 1988 and are organised based on the territorial police forces. Membership is open to youths aged 13-18, and some branches include Junior Volunteer Police Cadets for those aged 10-13. Though advertised as giving an \"insight\" into British policing, it does not guarantee future employment.\n\nThe Aims of the VPC are:-\n\nHistorically Police cadets were introduced in 1948, but then changes were made to the new system in 1959. The Metropolitan Police had the initial intention of boosting recruitment into the Metropolitan Police as, at that time recruitment was very low, and Police numbers in London were below (25,000) the 'establishment' figure of 28,000 police personnel. Police Officers were working two of their monthly 'rest days' and being paid for this work. Metropolitan Police Cadets were based originally in the former RAF Hendon buildings on Aerodrome Road and Police Cadets were all male aged 16 to 19 and they were paid a salary. They initially served two 'School terms' at Hendon and then transferred to another establishment at Ashford Kent until the first 'term' after their 18th birthday when they were attached to a Cadet Centre, there were four Cadet Centres at Kingsbry, Sunbury, Norwood and Wanstead. In 1968 the Hendon Police Cadet College opened on the corner of Aerodrome Road and Colindale Avenue almost directly opposite the gates to RAF Hendon. During 1970 RAF Hendon began to be transformed into a large Housing estate.\n\nThe new building consisted of a purpose built gymnasium, four accommodation blocks and an administration / training building. There was a large parade ground for the cadets to practice their drill. Police Cadets from the Royal Ulster Constabulary and Kent Police made up part of the complement at Hendon.\n\nUntil the 1990s, Police Cadets were full-time frontline employees who were aged 16-19. The Metropolitan Police Service introduced one such scheme in 1948. These Police Cadets had no powers of arrest but were able to assist their senior colleagues in many practical matters, such as taking statements, directing traffic, or offering crime prevention advice, as well as observing the work of their supervisors. This incarnation of the Police Cadets could be compared to present-day Police Community Support Officers. On reaching the age of 19, a Cadet would either apply for training as a police officer, or leave the police force. In 1980 the ITV television network aired The Squad, a drama series which followed the fictional adventures of Metropolitan Police Cadets. The twelve episodes were produced by Thames Television. Most of these precursor schemes were disbanded by the 1990s.\n\nThe present form of Police Cadets began in 1988. It was a community initiative that was supported by Commissioner Peter Imbert, who wanted to engage with young people. The first documented Volunteer Police Cadet unit started in South Norwood (Lambeth) in March 1988.\n\nAll of the territorial police forces of England and Wales have a corresponding VPC branch, as does the British Transport Police. These are subdivided into local branches. There is a separate but similar scheme in Scotland called the Police Scotland Youth Volunteers, but no equivalent scheme exists in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe VPC is supported by a team, led by Chief Constable Shaun Sawyer of Devon & Cornwall Police. The team have developed the National Police Chiefs' Council supported framework, sharing the common Aims and Principles of the VPC programmes operating in police forces across the UK.\n\nThey support the VPC through funding; developing resources and training; producing opportunities for cadets and leaders. Sharing good practice amongst VPC members ensures police engagement and education of cadets, recognising the role of young people within their communities and policing.\n\nThe highest rank is Head Police Cadet, with a Head Police Cadet normally having two deputies to assist them and fill in for them if necessary. A Head Police Cadet is akin to a Chief Constable in a structural sense as the Head Police Officer and is often viewed as ‘the Chief Cadet’ and a potential future Chief Constable. The Head Police Cadet may have lettering, a badge or stripes on their epaulets denoting their rank, such as a Gold Star, as is used by Leicestershire Police. \n\nIn the Thames Valley the ranks are as follows: Cadet, Team Leader, Deputy Head Cadet, and Head Cadet.\n\nThe epaulette is arranged in the order:\n\n\nThe Volunteer Police Cadets have a few positions above the V.P.C standard ranks for people over the age of 18 such as:\n\n\nCadets awarded as Mayor's Cadets are given a special badge or epaulets to wear.\n\nUnits normally meet at a local school or community venue once a week and are led by police officers, police staff and volunteers. In addition cadets develop their leadership skills by undertaking challenging social action projects in their communities with an expectation that they will volunteer 3 hours a month. Examples of these projects include supporting older members of the community understand cyber crime, fund raising for charities and road safety campaigns.\n\nCadets learn about:\n\nVPC teams also take part in many events & activities out in their communities, such as the London Marathon, Notting Hill Carnival, Remembrance Sunday & Armed Forces Day parades.\n\nCadets also take part in the Duke of Edinbugh's Award (DofE) and from 2019 will have the opportunity to participate in the UK Youth Achievement Awards.\n\nPolice Cadets have no special powers. Unlike the previous full-time cadets, they rarely assist the police in actual policing activities, and are never sent to high-risk situations.\n\nOnce they reach the age of 14, cadets may go out in public with police officers to take part in low-risk policing activities. Undercover cadets have been used to test if shops are willing to sell alcohol, tobacco and weapons to underage customers. They may also assist policing at large public events and provide crime prevention advice to local residents and businesses.\n\nThere is no standardised uniform for the Police Cadets, with each parent Police Service providing their own uniform design. Generally, the uniforms avoid bearing too much resemblance to the uniforms of police officers, PCSOs, and other enforcement officers. They have tended to use badged polo shirts, formal uniform shirt (which could be white or blue) with epaulettes bearing VPC insignia or cadet rank bars, and a beret, peaked cap, or baseball cap. Cadets are also issued with trousers and fleece or coat. They do not feature the Sillitoe Tartan pattern or custodian helmet.\n\nSome cadets wear black ties & wear a brassard on their right arm. \n\nOther Forces issue their VPCs with a light blue or red tie.\n\nIn Cambridgeshire, cadets wear a similar uniform to the old full-time cadets, but are issued with a navy blue combat-style sweater (marked 'Police Cadet') instead of a tunic; however in Sussex their uniform is similar to a police officer's, with white shirt, tie, epaulettes, black trousers, and black shoes. They also have cadet jackets and a high visibility jacket. In Hertfordshire, cadets were issued with a light blue V-neck sweater, which had the county emblem embroidered on it. The Hertfordshire scheme has now changed and cadets wear a uniform similar to regular police officers, but with the word \"cadet\" embroidered on epaulette rank slides instead of a collar number and similarly the word \"cadet\" on the left breast reflective strip instead of the word \"police\".\n\nThe equivalent of the Police Cadets in Scotland is the Police Scotland Youth Volunteers (PSYV). The PSYV is not part of the Volunteer Police Cadets framework, but is listed as a partner agency and carries out similar work.\n\nEstablished in 2013 with five groups in Aberdeen, Cumnock, Dundee, Edinburgh and Glasgow, PSYV members volunteered at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow and other public events. The program has quickly expanded and today there are now twenty groups across Scotland from Stranraer to Shetland, with plans to expand further.\n\nThe founder and the largest cadet scheme are operated by the Metropolitan Police Service, with over 5,000 cadets as of March 2016. It was founded in 1988 by Commissioner Peter Imbert. By 2010, every London borough had a VPC unit, along with a central support team within the Territorial Policing Command Unit. Metropolitan Police Cadets are involved in continuing further education, DofE, learning about the police service, carrying out attachments to divisions and specialist departments, learning first aid, and engaging in community work projects with the disabled and disadvantaged. London Police cadets annually compete in a police scenario completion, which was traditionally held in Hendon, in North London, for the annual Police Cadet Competition. This involved cadets competing in a range of police activities and scenarios, in which they were competitively assessed. In 2015 the Metropolitan Police announced that the Cadet Competition was no longer to be held at Hendon due to the resizing of Hendon; some of the land was sold off for development. However, the Annual Cadet Competition continues a long tradition at the GRAVESEND public order site. 2013 also saw the launch of Junior Police Cadets capturing those young people from school Year 6 to Year 9 at which point they become eligible to join the senior VPC.\n\nOn Sunday 14 June 2009, the Metropolitan Police Volunteer Police Cadets took part in what is believed to have been the largest ever formal parade of young people, to celebrate the 22nd anniversary of the establishment of the Volunteer Police Cadet force in what was named as the \"colour parade\" and was carried out on Horse Guard's Parade. Each cadet troop was formally passed a Standard (flag) under the review of the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Paul Stephenson, and other senior officers of the Metropolitan Police. The parade also included the showing of vintage police vehicles, police dogs, and a static display of the Boys' Brigade's London Massed Bugle Band. Bands that lead the four columns of a total of 1,400 cadets (and various police cadet staff, most of whom also hold different roles within the Metropolitan Police) were Metropolitan Police Pipe Band, the Nottingham-shire Police Pipe Band, the British Airways Brass Band, and the Enfield District Scout Band.\n\nIn 2011, Mayor Boris Johnson supported expanding the Metropolitan Police VPC by calling for numbers to be doubled by 2015. The Metropolitan Police VPC changed the age range from 14-19 to 10-24, introducing the UK's first Junior Volunteer Police Cadets scheme. The expansion target was achieved in March 2016.\n\n\nAccusations of abuse of Cadets by Police have led to investigations in the Metropolitan Police and Greater Manchester Police.\n\nOther UK Cadet Organisations\n\n"}
{"id": "2081308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081308", "title": "Ethanol (data page)", "text": "Ethanol (data page)\n\nThis page provides supplementary chemical data on ethanol. Except where noted otherwise, data relate to standard ambient temperature and pressure.\n\nExternal MSDS\n\nData obtained from \nThese data correlate as ρ [g/cm] = −8.461834 \"T\" [°C] + 0.8063372 with an \"R\" = 0.99999.\n\nData obtained from \n\nData obtained from \"CRC Handbook of Chemistry (Page 2117)\"\n\nAzeotropic mixture\n\n"}
{"id": "2081310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081310", "title": "Chkrootkit", "text": "Chkrootkit\n\nchkrootkit (Check Rootkit) is a common Unix-based program intended to help system administrators check their system for known rootkits. It is a shell script using common UNIX/Linux tools like the codice_1 and codice_2 commands to search core system programs for signatures and for comparing a traversal of the codice_3 filesystem with the output of the codice_4 (process status) command to look for discrepancies.\n\nIt can be used from a rescue disc (typically a live CD) or it can optionally use an alternative directory from which to run all of its own commands. These techniques allow chkrootkit to trust the commands upon which it depends a bit more.\n\nThere are inherent limitations to the reliability of any program that attempts to detect compromises (such as rootkits and computer viruses). Newer rootkits may specifically attempt to detect and compromise copies of the chkrootkit programs or take other measures to evade detection by them.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081313", "title": "Kimchi fried rice", "text": "Kimchi fried rice\n\nKimchi fried rice or kimchi-bokkeum-bap () is a variety of \"bokkeum-bap\" (\"fried rice\"), a popular dish in Korea. \"Kimchi fried rice\" is made primarily with kimchi and rice, along with other available ingredients, such as diced vegetables or meats like spam.\n\nLeftover rice and/or over-ripened kimchi as ingredients are usually preferred in preparing kimchi fried rice. Over-ripened kimchi can also be used for cooking \"kimchi jjigae\". Indeed, well-fermented kimchi and chilled rice can produce a flavor of greater richness as opposed to freshly made kimchi and rice. In preliminary preparation, as surplus \"\"kimchiso\"\" (hangul: 김치소, kimchi filling, mostly shredded radish, green onions and jeotgal, fermented and salted seafood) taken out from kimchi, squeezed to discard its brine. Without completing the process, the resultant dish can be mushy in texture.\n\nAlong with kimchi and rice, kimchi fried rice can contain many kinds of ingredients. Pork or spam are the most common; however, beef, chicken, bacon, ham, canned tuna, or shrimp can be used. Instead of meat, mushrooms can be used as a replacement, in which case the ingredient's name may be prefixed to the dish's name such as \"\"beoseot-kimchi-bokkeum-bap\"\" (hangul: 버섯김치볶음밥, literally \"mushroom kimchi fried rice\"). Meat ingredients are chopped into the dish together with vegetables such as onion, carrot or zucchini. However, ingredients depend on personal preference and occasion. A small amount of minced garlic and sliced green pepper can be used as seasoning. These ingredients are fried in a pan with a little vegetable or sesame oil.\n\nAfter the cooked dish is put on a plate or in a bowl, a fried egg is sometimes served on top. Thinly shredded gim, chopped scallions or sesame are spread over it to enhance the flavor and to garnish.\n\nSince kimchi fried rice is cheap and easy to make in a short period of time, it is favored by students living alone who cannot afford expensive meals. Kimchi fried rice is also a popular item for lunch at a \"bunsikjeom\" (\"bunsik place\"). As the dish is hot and spicy, it is typically served with danmuji and a small bowl of any kind of mild and warm soup such as \"miyeok-guk\" (\"wakame soup\"), or \"kongnamul-guk\" (\"soybean sprout soup\"). During summer, cool \"dongchimi\" (white, watery kimchi made of radish) can also be accompanied with the dish.\n\nThe popularity of kimchi fried rice is also reflected in South Korean pop culture. Byun Jin-sub, a popular male singer in the late 1980s, sang a song titled \"Wishes\" (hangul: 희망사항) in which he stated that the singer's ideal girlfriend would be one who cooks good kimchi fried rice. Taeyang says in his 2010 song \"I Need A Girl\" that his ideal girlfriend will eat the kimchi fried rice that he cooks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081319", "title": "Media center", "text": "Media center\n\nMedia center or media centre may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081323", "title": "Carmelo Mifsud Bonnici", "text": "Carmelo Mifsud Bonnici\n\nCarmelo \"Carm\" Mifsud Bonnici (born 17 February 1960) is a Maltese politician who has served in a number of Ministerial posts in the Government of Malta.\n\nCarmelo Mifsud Bonnici, the son of former President Ugo Mifsud Bonnici, was born in Floriana on 17 February 1960. He was educated at St. Aloysius’ College, Birkirkara, then at De La Salle College in Cospicua. Bonnici is a distant relative of former Labour Prime Minister Karmenu Mifsud Bonnici.\n\nDuring his student days, Mifsud Bonnici occupied the post of President of the MKSU as a university student and was active in the Nationalist Party Youth Movement (MŻPN) as from 1982, occupying different posts in the executive of the said movement. He graduated from the University of Malta in 1984 as Doctor of Laws.\n\nWhen graduating, as a lawyer, he practiced in criminal, civil and commercial fields.\n\nAt present, he is a senior lecturer in Roman Law at the University of Malta.\n\nHe is married to Sandra (née Gatt); the couple has three children.\n\nMifsud Bonnici was elected to the House of Representatives in 1998 as a member of the Nationalist Party. He was appointed by Parliament as the Chairman of Committees in the same year and was a permanent member of a number of other Committees. Between October 2001 and March 2003 he served as a Board Member of the Malta Environment and Planning Authority, being re-elected to the House of Representatives in 2003.\n\nIn April 2003, Carm Mifsud Bonnici was appointed as Parliamentary Secretary in the Ministry for Justice and Home Affairs. Following the swearing-in of Lawrence Gonzi as Prime Minister and the subsequent Cabinet reshuffle in March 2004, he was re-confirmed as Parliamentary Secretary in the Ministry for Justice and Home Affairs. During this period he drove the implementation of several reforms and introduction of new concepts in the Maltese judicial system.\n\nAfter the March 2008 general election, Mifsud Bonnici was appointed as Minister for Justice and Home Affairs. His portfolio includes the responsibility for the Courts of Justice, the Attorney General's Office, the Police Corps, Immigration, Airport Security, Correctional Services, Civil Protection and Data Protection. In February 2009, Mifsud Bonnici unveiled the White Paper on Restorative Justice which is intended to serve as a basis for public discussion for a deep reform in Malta's penal system. It proposes the introduction of a number of new concepts, including parole, which is as yet unavailable in Malta. In January 2012 he was made Minister for Home and Parliamentary Affairs which included the role of Leader of the House of Representatives.\n\nHowever, he resigned as Minister the following 30 May after an Opposition motion of no confidence in him was carried, which was supported by all Labour-Parliamentarians along with Nationalist Franco Debono.\n\nCarm Mifsud Bonnici is the author of four publications: \"Żewg Minuti Flimkien\" (1998), \"Il-Prinċipji Hemm Jibqgħu\" (2003), \"Sens u Sustanza\" (2008) and \"Il-Politika tas-Sewwa\" (2013). He also writes weekly columns for the Sunday papers \"Il-Mument\" and \"Illum\". \n\nOfficial website\n"}
{"id": "2081328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081328", "title": "Sean Welch", "text": "Sean Welch\n\nSean Welch (born 12 April 1965, Enfield, England) was the bassist for The Beautiful South and previously roadie for The Housemartins.\n"}
{"id": "2081329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081329", "title": "DShield", "text": "DShield\n\nDShield is a community-based collaborative firewall log correlation system. It receives logs from volunteers worldwide and uses them to analyze attack trends. It is used as the data collection engine behind the SANS Internet Storm Center (ISC). DShield was officially launched end of November 2000 by Johannes Ullrich. Since then, it has grown to be a dominating attack correlation engine with worldwide coverage.\n\nDShield is regularly used by the media to cover current events. Analysis provided by DShield has been used in the early detection of several worms, like \"Ramen\", Code Red, \"Leaves\", \"SQL Snake\" and more. DShield data is regularly used by researchers to analyze attack patterns.\n\nThe goal of the DShield project is to allow access to its correlated information to the public at no charge to raise awareness and provide accurate and current snapshots of internet attacks. Several data feeds are provided to users to either include in their own web sites or to use as an aide to analyze events.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081336", "title": "Old Sarum (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Old Sarum (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nOld Sarum was from 1295 to 1832 a parliamentary constituency of England (until 1707), of Great Britain (until 1800), and finally of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. It was a so-called rotten borough, with an extremely small electorate that was consequently vastly over-represented and could be used by a patron to gain undue influence. The constituency was on the site of what had been the original settlement of Salisbury, known as Old Sarum. The population had moved to New Sarum at the foot of the hill and at a confluence known as the cathedral city of Salisbury in the 14th century. The constituency was abolished under the Reform Act 1832.\n\nIn 1295, during the reign of King Edward I, Old Sarum was given the right to send two members to the House of Commons of England even though the site had ceased to be a city with the dissolution of Old Sarum Cathedral in 1226. The seat of the Bishop had moved to New Salisbury – and the location of the new cathedral – in 1217/18. All that remained at Old Sarum was a small hamlet. But that was largely abandoned when Edward II ordered the castle's demolition in 1322. The remains of the old settlement were razed for its materials that were used to construct the new city and Salisbury Cathedral. Evidence of quarrying showed it continued well into the 14th century. Two hundred years later Henry VIII sold the former Royal Castle.\n\nDespite having no significant population, the borough was organised with a burgage franchise, meaning that the inhabitants of designated houses (burgage tenements) had the right to vote. From at least the 17th century, Old Sarum had no resident voters, but the landowner retained the right to nominate tenants for each of the burgage plots, and they were not required to live there. For many years, the borough was owned by the Pitt family and was their pocket borough: one of its Members in the late 18th century was William Pitt the Elder. In 1802, the head of the family, Lord Camelford, sold the borough to the Earl of Caledon, who owned it until its abolition; the price was reported as £60,000, even though the land and manorial rights were worth £700 a year at most: an indication of the value of a pair of parliamentary seats. At its final election, in 1831, there were eleven voters, all of whom were landowners who lived elsewhere. This made Old Sarum the most notorious of the rotten boroughs, being described as \"a wall with two niches\". The Reform Act 1832 subsumed the Old Sarum area into an enlarged borough of Wilton.\n\nIn the last years, the spectacle of an Old Sarum election drew a small crowd to observe the ritual presentation of the two candidates and the hollow call for any further nominations. Stooks Smith quotes a contemporary description dating from the 1802 general election:\n\nElections in Old Sarum were conducted on a mobile hustings under a specific tree, which died in 1905, in what was known as the 'electing acre'.\n\nThe last reported contested election in Old Sarum occurred at a byelection in November 1751, after the death of Paul Jodrell. The proprietor at the time, Thomas Pitt, had sold the privilege of choosing the Members to the Pelham Government for £2,000 and a pension of £1,000 a year, but the administration's choice of Simon Fanshawe was opposed by James Pitt (younger brother of George Pitt, Member for Dorset) and by John Thorold. The number of votes for each candidate was not recorded.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081340", "title": "Nicholas Saul", "text": "Nicholas Saul\n\nNicholas Saul (1833 – January 28, 1853) was a prominent nineteenth-century criminal and one of the founding members of the Daybreak Boys, a New York City street gang. Saul led many of the gang’s early raids, many of which were before sunrise— earning the gang their nickname—on the Hudson River and East River waterfront. At its height during 1851 to 1853, the gang earned an estimated $200,000 under Saul's leadership. \n\nThe gang began operating as river pirates during this time. Saul's violent raids would often see the crew murdered and the ship scuttled after stealing its cargo. However on a raid with gang members Nicholas Howlett and Bill Johnson on August 25, 1852 against the \"William Watson\", the gang became engaged in a gunfight with crew members, eventually alerting local detectives. \n\nA police pursuit of over 20 officers chased the men from the East River to Pete Williams' Slaughter House Inn where they were forced to surrender to police after a three-hour siege. Saul and Howlett were later convicted of the murder of ship watchmen Charles Baxter and sentenced to be executed. On the day of their execution a crowd of over 200 gangsters and politicians, including William Poole and Tom Hyer, paid their respects shaking hands with the men as they were brought up to the gallows. They were hanged in the Tombs Courtyard on January 28, 1853.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081341", "title": "Teresa Morgan", "text": "Teresa Morgan\n\nThe Reverend Professor Teresa Morgan is an English academic and cleric, best known as the author of \"Literate Education in the Hellenistic and Roman Worlds\" and \"Roman Faith and Christian Faith\".\n\nMorgan attended Oxford High School before studying the violin at the Hochschule für Musik, Cologne. She studied as an undergraduate and graduate student at Clare College, Cambridge and as a postgraduate student at the Royal Academy of Music. She was a Research Fellow of St John's College, Cambridge and Newnham College, Cambridge, Fellow of University College, Oxford, and has been a Fellow of Oriel College since 2000. She holds a master's degree (M.A.) and doctorate (Ph.D.) from Cambridge, Dip. R.A.M., L.R.A.M., and a master's degree (M.A.) from Oxford.\n\nHer research interests lie in the study of ancient education, ethics and early Christianity and contemporary historiography. Her work encompasses aspects of the relationship between literature and society in antiquity, cultural and intellectual history and early Christian history and theology. She broadcasts regularly on radio and television and writes for The Tablet, The Church Times and The Times Literary Supplement.\n\nMorgan is Professor of Graeco-Roman History in the Faculty of Classics, University of Oxford and Nancy Bissell Turpin Fellow and Tutor in Ancient History at Oriel College, Oxford. She has served as University Assessor, as an elected member of the governing Council of Oxford University, Associate Head of the Humanities Division of the University, Chair of the Faculty of Classics, and Chair of several university committees and working groups. She is a Trustee of the Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies.\n\n\"Roman Faith and Christian Faith\" (2015) is a much discussed study of how early Christians understood and practised 'faith' (\"pistis, fides\" in the languages which dominate early sources). It argues that for early Christians, trust and faithfulness, rather than belief in doctrines or non-rational fideism, were salvific and central to life in a Christian community. It locates Christian understandings of \"pistis/fides\" in their context in Hellenistic Judaism and Greco-Roman society, arguing that belief and orthodoxy become central to later Christianity through contact with Greek philosophy and religion. In 2017 Morgan received a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship to write the sequel to \"Roman Faith and Christian Faith\", investigating the evolution of Christian faith between the second and fifth centuries CE and its impact on late Rome and her successor states.\n\nMorgan's most cited book, \"Literate Education in the Hellenistic and Roman Worlds\" (1998) examines Hellenistic and Roman education and re-interprets the function of literature, grammar and rhetoric in education, as well as looking at Hellenistic and Roman theories of cognitive development. Morgan's \"Literate Education in the Hellenistic and Roman Worlds\" is on the reading lists of many university courses and modules in the UK and the United States.\n\nMorgan was ordained in the Church of England as a deacon in 2002 and as a priest in 2003. Since 2002, she has been a non-stipendiary minister of the Church of St Mary and St Nicholas, Littlemore in the Diocese of Oxford.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081342", "title": "Latch-up", "text": "Latch-up\n\nA latch-up is a type of short circuit which can occur in an integrated circuit (IC). More specifically it is the inadvertent creation of a low-impedance path between the power supply rails of a MOSFET circuit, triggering a parasitic structure which disrupts proper functioning of the part, possibly even leading to its destruction due to overcurrent. A power cycle is required to correct this situation.\n\nA single event latch-up is a latch-up caused by a single event upset, typically heavy ions or protons from cosmic rays or solar flares.\n\nThe parasitic structure is usually equivalent to a thyristor (or SCR), a PNPN structure which acts as a PNP and an NPN transistor stacked next to each other. During a latch-up when one of the transistors is conducting, the other one begins conducting too. They both keep each other in saturation for as long as the structure is forward-biased and some current flows through it - which usually means until a power-down. The SCR parasitic structure is formed as a part of the totem-pole PMOS and NMOS transistor pair on the output drivers of the gates.\n\nThe latch-up does not have to happen between the power rails - it can happen at any place where the required parasitic structure exists. A common cause of latch-up is a positive or negative voltage spike on an input or output pin of a digital chip that exceeds the rail voltage by more than a diode drop. Another cause is the supply voltage exceeding the absolute maximum rating, often from a transient spike in the power supply. It leads to a breakdown of an internal junction. This frequently happens in circuits which use multiple supply voltages that do not come up in the required sequence on power-up, leading to voltages on data lines exceeding the input rating of parts that have not yet reached a nominal supply voltage. Latch-ups can also be caused by an electrostatic discharge event.\n\nAnother common cause of latch-ups is ionizing radiation which makes this a significant issue in electronic products designed for space (or very high-altitude) applications.\n\nHigh-power microwave interference can also trigger latch ups.\n\nBoth CMOS integrated circuits and TTL integrated circuits are more susceptible to latch-up at higher temperatures.\n\nAll CMOS ICs have latch-up paths, but there are several design techniques that reduce susceptibility to latch-up.\n\nIn CMOS technology, there are a number of intrinsic bipolar junction transistors. In CMOS processes, these transistors can create problems when the combination of n-well/p-well and substrate results in the formation of parasitic n-p-n-p structures. Triggering these thyristor-like devices leads to a shorting of the Vdd and GND lines, usually resulting in destruction of the chip, or a system failure that can only be resolved by power-down. \n\nConsider the n-well structure in the first figure. The n-p-n-p structure is formed by the source of the NMOS, the p-substrate, the n-well and the source of the PMOS. A circuit equivalent is also shown. When one of the two bipolar transistors gets forward biased (due to current flowing through the well, or substrate), it feeds the base of the other transistor. This positive feedback increases the current until the circuit fails or burns out.\n\nThe invention of the now industry-standard technique to prevent CMOS latch-up was made by Hughes Aircraft company in 1977.\n\nIt is possible to design chips to be resistant to latch-up by adding a layer of insulating oxide (called a \"trench\") that surrounds both the NMOS and the PMOS transistors. This breaks the parasitic silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR) structure between these transistors. Such parts are important in the cases where the proper sequencing of power and signals cannot be guaranteed, such as hot swap devices. \n\nDevices fabricated in lightly doped epitaxial layers grown on heavily doped substrates are also less susceptible to latch-up. The heavily doped layer acts as a current sink where excess minority carriers can quickly recombine.\n\nMost silicon-on-insulator devices are inherently latch-up-resistant. Latch-up is the low resistance connection between tub and power supply rails.\n\nAlso to avoid the latch, a separate tap connection is put for each transistor. But this will increase the size of the device so fabs give a minimum space to put a tap, for example, 10 μm in 130 nm technology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081344", "title": "West End, Atlanta", "text": "West End, Atlanta\n\nWest End is a historic neighborhood of Atlanta, one of the oldest outside Downtown Atlanta, and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. West End residents are primarily (89%) African American and the neighborhood contains several prominent African American cultural institutions, in addition to being adjacent to the Atlanta University Center complex of HBCUs. West End is located southwest of Castleberry Hill, east of Westview, west of Adair Park Historic District, and just north of Oakland City. Architectural styles within the district include Craftsman Bungalow, Queen Anne, Stick style, Folk Victorian, Colonial Revival, American Foursquare and Neoclassical Revival.\n\nIn this century, West End has endured many changes in its metamorphosis to an intown neighborhood while retaining its own distinctive character and vitality. This has been accomplished both by adaptation and participation in change and by its citizens' recognition of the district's special history.\n\nBefore there was a West End or an Atlanta, the area was a crossroads. Newnan Road connected the town of that name to Decatur and Lawrenceville. Crossing this road was the Sandtown Road going west to an Indian town of that name. Near this junction around 1830, Charner Humphries established an inn/tavern which came to be known as Whitehall due to the then unusual fact that it had a coat of white paint when most other buildings were of washed or natural wood.\n\nFrom a frontier outpost in the 1830s, the district evolved into an independent political entity closely linked by rail and roads to its neighbor Atlanta.\n\nin April 1871, Richard Peters and George Adair bought out the charter of the Atlanta Street Railway Company (horse-drawn) and on September 1 of that year opened the first section connecting Five Points to the West End – a route that passed by both of their homes. The following year the West End & Atlanta Street Railroad also started service to West End and Westview Cemetery.\n\nBy the 1880s many wealthy Atlantans built large estates here and when they came, the main street of Gordon Street became a bustling commercial district. In 1894, it was annexed by Atlanta as a distinct ward following two decades of planned suburbanization. From 1894 to 1930, West End grew rapidly in population and prosperity. An examination of building permits for Peeples, Gordon, Lee and Lawton Streets shows a large number of single family residences being built and increasing commercial buildings and churches going up along Gordon and at the long established business district at Gordon and Lee. National and local prosperity and the mobility created by the automobile in the 1920s helped West End to grow. Approximately fifty businesses were now clustered at Gordon and Lee with branches of Sears, Firestone, Piggly-Wiggly, and Goodyear.\n\nChurches and schools increased to serve the growing population. Schools began to dot West End, the largest being the 1923 Joseph E. Brown High School at Peeples and Beecher. West End became a desirable suburban community in the 1880s, and grew rapidly in population and prosperity, so that by 1930 there were more than 22,000 residents.\n\nNotable residents in this early period included Atlanta mayor Dennis Hammond, Evan Howell, governor James Smith (1872–77), John Conley (son of Governor Benjamin Conley), Thomas Stokes (founding partner of Davison's Department Store), L. Z. Rosser (president of the Atlanta Board of Education), J. P. Allen (clothing store owner), T. D. Longino (medical doctor and alderman), J. N. McEachern (insurance executive), as well as several authors such as Frank L. Stanton, Madge Bigham and Joel Chandler Harris, known for his Uncle Remus Tales. Both during his life and up to the present, Harris has perhaps been West End's most famous resident. He attracted such figures as President Theodore Roosevelt and Andrew Carnegie to Atlanta, the former returning after Harris' death to lecture for the Uncle Remus Memorial Association.\n\nAfter 1930, West End was an aging but still vital Atlanta community. This vitality is most clearly evident in the West End Businessmen's Association (originally formed in 1927). In 1937, the Association pushed for extension of the National Housing Act title providing for home modernization loans, and in subsequent decades (1950s and 1960s) for economic accessibility and population stabilization, including segregation. With the group's support, Gordon Street was widened, Interstate 20 was built across West End's northern fringe, and the old business district (along with large amounts of residential housing) was demolished in favor of a mall development. Completed in 1973, the mall's accessibility was later augmented by part of the city's latest transportation system, a MARTA station, across the street. The West End Businessmen's Association obviously was successful in many areas, but it failed in stopping \"white flight\". By 1976, West End was eighty-six percent Afro-American.\n\nThe West End is also home to the West Hunter Street Baptist Church was moved to Gordon Street. This church has been one of Atlanta's leading black churches for decades and since 1961 was led, until his death, by the Reverend Ralph David Abernathy. Jesse Jackson came to West End to speak at the opening of the new church. A close friend and confidante of Martin Luther King, Jr., Abernathy participated in most of the civil rights campaigns of the 1960s and 1970s and succeeded King as president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. In honor of his nationally recognized contributions to the civil rights movement, Gordon Street was renamed Ralph David Abernathy Boulevard, in 1991. In addition, neighborhood residents formed the West End Neighborhood Development, Inc. (WEND), in 1974, with the goal of improving the socioeconomic position of their community and its residents. In order to increase awareness of the West End neighborhood, WEND has sponsored a tour of homes, a yearly festival in Howell Park, and a driving tour booklet highlighting neighborhood homes and cultural and religious centers.\n\nFormer SNCC chairman and Black Panther Party member, H. Rap Brown, relocated to the West End in the late 1970s or early 1980s. By this time, he had embraced Islam and changed his name to Jamil Abdullah Al-Amin. After joining the Muslim community in the West End (part of a national network known simply as The Community), he became known as Imam Jamil. Imam is an Arabic word referring to \"leader\" in Muslim communities. Imam Jamil became known for seeking to rid the neighborhood of drugs and prostitution. Today, the Muslim community maintains both a mosque and an Islamic center within walking distance of the park in the heart of the neighborhood. Though he was incarcerated in 2000, and given a life sentence, Imam Jamil's influence continues to be felt in the community.\n\nBy the 2000s, much of it still looked blighted but a few bright spots were popping up due to a wave of investment in intown Atlanta beginning to rejuvenate the area. As West End was once described as one of Atlanta's most socially diverse and culturally rich communities, it is again returning to the tradition of its past, as it relates to the regenerating of community value and revitalization. An example of revitalization in West End is Sky Lofts, which converted a long vacant Sears parking lot. Sky Lofts brought a lot of new residents, especially young professionals, looking for urban lifestyle. Historic houses are being rehabbed and renovated by new and old residents. West End, as its name suggests (named after London's theater), is also a mecca for artists. West End was chosen by Creative Loafing in 2010 as Best Neighborhood For Artists.\n\nIn addition to being an artist's mecca, it is also a hub for Atlanta's Afrocentric community. Sites such as Soul Vegetarian South, the Shrine of the Black Madonna church, the Hammonds House, and the African Djeli contribute to the West End being one of the strongest hubs of African-American culture in Metro Atlanta. In last few years West End is experiencing steady influx of new residents. Neighborhood is becoming more racially diverse and new residents are very welcome by community members (post mortgage fraud).\n\nWest End is also a pioneer neighborhood for the BeltLine project in Atlanta. The first model mile was completed in the spring of 2008. The model mile consists of the biking and walking path, improvement of Gordon-White Park, and one new park behind Brown Middle School. In addition Trees Atlanta planted 200 trees native to West End which will be part of a linear arboretum that will follow the BeltLine corridor. Livable Center Initiative (LCI) granted funds for West End to renovate and improve its streetscape to make it a more walkable community. West End is included in the Peachtree Corridor plan . With the Peachtree Corridor, the BeltLine, and MARTA, West End will be one of the most transit-oriented neighborhoods Transit-oriented development in Atlanta.\n\n\nAtlanta Public Schools serves the West End.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Atlanta operates area Catholic schools. Saint Anthony of Padua School in the West End was established in 1912. In 1997 it had 125 students. It permanently closed in Spring 2001\n\nAtlanta-Fulton Public Library System operates the West End Branch.\n\nWest End is located on the south side of Interstate 20 at the Joseph E. Lowery Blvd. exit. It is also served by the West End MARTA station and MARTA buses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081358", "title": "Andrew Lortie", "text": "Andrew Lortie\n\nAndrew Lortie (or André Lortie) was a leading French theologian, author and emigre leader of Huguenot Protestants in England, born in France and resident of London at his death, heading the French church there.\n\nLortie was a well-known author of books attacking the Holy See and transubstantiation and was an early, prominent Protestant theologian.\n\nMost Huguenot churches in the UK and US have since merged with Anglican-based or Reform-based Protestant churches.\n\nLortie was born in France and died in England. Lortie had a son also named Andrew as well as a daughter, Mrs. Brodbelt.\n\nPainting at National Gallery, London \n"}
{"id": "2081364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081364", "title": "Kanina", "text": "Kanina\n\nKanina may refer to the following places:\n\n"}
{"id": "2081368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081368", "title": "Jason John Nassau", "text": "Jason John Nassau\n\nJason John Nassau (1893–1965) was an American astronomer.\n\nHe performed his doctoral studies at Syracuse, and gained his Ph.D. mathematics in 1920. (His thesis was \"Some Theorems in Alternants\".) He then became an assistant professor at the Case Institute of Technology in 1921, teaching astronomy. He continued to instruct at that institution, becoming the University's first chair of astronomy from 1924 until 1959 and chairman of the graduate division from 1936 until 1940. After 1959 he was professor emeritus.\n\nFrom 1924 until 1959 he was also the director of the Case Western Reserve University (CWRU) Warner and Swasey Observatory in Cleveland, Ohio. He was a pioneer in the study of galactic structure. He also discovered a new star cluster, co-discovered 2 novae in 1961, and developed a technique of studying the distribution of red (M-class or cooler) stars.\n\nIn 1922, Nassau led the formation of the Cleveland Astronomical Society, \"a club among those citizens of Cleveland and vicinity who were interested in astronomy.\" He served as the extant organization's first president for 41 years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081383", "title": "Karangetang", "text": "Karangetang\n\nKarangetang (also known as Api Siau) is a volcano on the north side of Siau Island off the coast of Sulawesi, Indonesia. The island is inhabited by 22,000 people. It is one of the most active volcanoes in Indonesia having erupted 41 times since 1675. A pyroclastic flow in 1997 killed three people.\n\nIn August 2007 an eruptive episode forced evacuations from nearby areas.\n\nOn 9 June 2009 the Volcanological Survey of Indonesia raised the eruption alert status of Karangetang to Level Orange.\n\nOn 6 August 2010 Karangetang again erupted, spewing lava and ash hundreds of meters into the air. Four villagers are missing.\n\nOn 11 March 2011, a few hours after an earthquake in Japan caused a Pacific-wide tsunami, Mount Karangetang again erupted. There were no reports of serious damage or deaths, though lava and hot gas clouds were emitted onto its slopes.\n\nOn September 2, 2013, the volcano began erupting again.\n\nThere was another spell of activity from November 2018 onwards, and yet others between 2013 and that. On 20 July 2019 a new eruption started, continuing as of October 2019. This was accompanied by effusion of lava.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081385", "title": "Metemma", "text": "Metemma\n\nMetemma (also known as Metemma Yohannes) is a town in northwestern Ethiopia, on the border with Sudan. Located in the Semien Gondar Zone of the Amhara Region, Metemma has a latitude and longitude of with an elevation of 685 meters above sea level. Across the border is the corresponding Sudanese village of Gallabat. According to the British diplomat Hormuzd Rassam, who travelled through Metemma in November 1865 on his diplomatic mission to Emperor Tewodros II, \"Metemma\" comes from the Arabic for \"the place of cutting, or termination -- indicating the end of the Muslim provinces\", although at the time the settlement was better known as Suk ul-Gallabat (\"The market of Gallabat\").\n\nMetemma hosts an airport, (ICAO code HAMM, IATA ETE).\n\nThe town traces its origins to the 18th century, when a colony of Tukrir from Darfur finding the spot a convenient resting-place for their fellow-pilgrims on their way to Mecca and back, obtained permission from the Emperor of Ethiopia to make a permanent settlement there. However Hormuz Rassam records a different account, stating \"within the last century\" (i.e., the 18th century) the rulers of Metemma were in constant war with their counterparts at Er-Rashid and manned their armies with slaves taken from Kurdufan and Darfur. These foreign conscripts eventually revolted and killed the \"so-called Arab chief\", making one of their number ruler.\n\nLying on the main trade route from Sennar to Gondar (some 90 miles to the east by south), Metemma/Gallabat grew into a trade center of some importance. The Scottish explorer James Bruce (who called the town Hor-Cacamoot) travelled through the town in 1772. This location not only made the settlement a major marketplace, but also a major slave market in the 19th century. Richard Pankhurst has published estimates of the number of people sold in this market during the 19th century that range between 10,000 and 20,000. By 1881, European visitors reported that the Emperor Yohannes IV had ordered the slave market closed. Emperor Yohannes was killed in battle nearby on 9–10 March 1889 fighting the Sudenese Mahdist in the Battle of Gallabat.\n\nAn Italian column from Gadabi occupied Metemma on 12 April 1936, which consisted of one Eritrean battalion, one squadron mounted on camels, and 1 platoon of light tanks. During the occupation, the Italians built a mosque in the town. After war was declared between the British and Italian Empires, the Italians crossed the border and occupied Gallabat. But the British recaptured the town 6 November 1940 with the intent of then capturing Metemma; however, the attack on Metemma failed miserably and the British were forced to evacuate Gallabat again. They occupied Metemma for good 19 January 1941.\n\nThe trade route through Metemma remained important up to the beginning of the 20th century, but the introduction of rail transport to Sudan, as well as improvements to the roads inside Ethiopia robbed the town of its importance, until by E.C. 1944 (AD 1952) an official survey found only 129 thatched and corrugated-roof houses in Matemma, of which \"fourteen were government properties, three were owned by \"nagades\" and twelve were empty -- probably reserved for renting.\"\n\nDuring the Ethiopian Civil War, Metemma was captured by the Ethiopian Democratic Union (EDU) on 13 January 1977, who attacked from positions inside Sudan. The town was taken from the EDU by the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front 7 October 1990, claiming to have killed 28 of its enemy forces, wounded 21, and captured 16.\n\nA road to Al Qadarif of good standard was completed mid-March 2002, allowing import and export goods to be sent through Port Sudan, where an area had been reserved for Ethiopian goods and containers.\n\nBased on figures from the Central Statistical Agency of Ethiopia published in 2005, Metemma has an estimated total population of 5,581, with 3,132 males and 2,449 females. The 1994 census reported this town had a total population of 3,183 of whom 1,648 were males and 1,535 were females. It is one of three towns in Metemma woreda.\n"}
{"id": "2081387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081387", "title": "Eight Worlds", "text": "Eight Worlds\n\nThe Eight Worlds are the fictional setting of a series of science fiction novels and short stories by John Varley, in which the solar system has been colonized by human refugees fleeing an alien invasion of the Earth. Earth and Jupiter are off-limits to humanity, but Earth's moon and the other worlds and moons of the solar system have all become heavily populated. There are also minor colonies set in the Oort cloud at the edge of the solar system. Faster than light travel is not (as yet) possible, though it's mentioned that test-flights will begin soon at the end of \"The Golden Globe\", and the species has not as yet managed to extend itself to other stars.\n\nThe series mostly deals with the ways in which technology and necessity shape morality and society. Instant sex changes are considered a matter of fashion, rather than gender-identity, and many long-standing human sexual taboos no longer exist.\n\nThe Eight Worlds story \"Overdrawn at the Memory Bank\", published in 1976, was adapted into a TV movie in 1985 starring Raul Julia.\n\nThe stories were written at different times and are not always consistent with each other. In particular, the novels \"Steel Beach\" and \"The Golden Globe\" are explicitly stated as being inconsistent with the original history (see Consistency, below). Varley has written that the Eight Worlds background should be regarded as a group of common characters and situations that appear in different stories rather than a single consistent setting. Several of the stories feature common characters, and these may be seen as linking together the whole series.\n\nFor many years the \"Pre-invasion\" stories weren't clearly in the Eight Worlds sequence, since while sharing thematic elements with the Eight Worlds universe they didn't share characters or locations. This uncertainty was put to rest in 2019 with the publication of \"Irontown Blues\", which featured Chris Bach, the son of Anna Louise Bach, as its main character. \n\nThe first Anna Louise Bach detective story is the short story \"Bagatelle\" concerning a nuclear device planted in an underground lunar colony. At this time, Earth is still home to a technological civilization, albeit one which has to deal with nuclear terrorism. Bach is the Chief of Police in Luna City. Later stories such as \"The Barbie Murders\", and \"Tango Charlie and Foxtrot Romeo\" deal with Bach in the earlier stages of her career. The novelette \"Blue Champagne\" has Bach as a minor character, working as a lifeguard in \"The Bubble\", a giant globe of water held in zero-gravity conditions on a resort satellite for the enjoyment of rich tourists. At the end of that story she announces that she has been saving her money to return to Luna and enroll in the Police Academy. A major character in the same story is Megan Galloway, a \"media star\" who seduces, and later falls in love with, \"Q.M.\" Cooper, a former champion swimmer on Earth and Anna's occasional lover. A feature of the Anna Louise stories is her taste for \"beefcake\", or very masculine, muscular men.\n\nIn notes contained within \"The John Varley Reader\", the author explains that he created Anna Louise Bach for stories which were too grim for the relative Utopia of the Eight Worlds series. He never intended that her story link to the Eight Worlds chronology. In fact, even within the Anna Louise Bach stories there are inconsistencies, such as the appearance of the fabulous \"Mozartplatz\" in \"Tango Charlie and Foxtrot Romeo\", where a huge chasm on Luna is roofed over producing cubic miles of pressurized space featuring aerial communities, artificial rivers etc. The other stories portray Luna society as living in cramped tunnels, although \"Bagatelle\" does take place partially on a golf course in a large cavern.\n\nMegan Galloway first appears in \"Blue Champagne\" and then in \"Tango Charlie and Foxtrot Romeo\", linking her with Anna Louise Bach in both. In \"Blue Champagne\" she is a \"trans-sister\", a quadraplegic who leads a celebrity lifestyle with the aid of a sophisticated device that enfolds her entire body in a net of golden alloy threads, which move her limbs for her. The device also records sights, sounds and emotions as she experiences them. These are then sold as virtual reality experiences, known as \"feelies\", for an audience of vicarious thrill-seekers. The income is needed to support the huge expense of renting the device. Her \"magnum opus\" is \"Love\", the feeling of falling in love, which she experienced with Q.M. Cooper. The selling of that \"feelie\" creates a rift between her and Cooper, resulting in him retreating to a commune.\n\nIn \"Steel Beach\" she is also mentioned as one of the \"Gigastars\" enshrined by the Flacks - a bizarre celebrity cult - who later regret this choice, when \"feelies\" go out of fashion. In \"Tango Charlie\" she has shed the device, undergone surgery to restore her nervous system, and uses her money and influence to help Anna Louise Bach with her stuttering career and her current case. She mysteriously disappears 100 years before the action of \"Steel Beach\".\n\nThe story \"Options\" explores the issue of easy sex changes from male to female and back. A married woman, Cleo, living in King City, undergoes a change to male despite her husband's objections. As \"Leo\" she finds out what it means to be a man in her society and even becomes her husband's best friend. She also learns that people are adopting new names that are historically neither male nor female. She eventually returns to female as \"Nile\". The names of characters in other Post-Invasion stories reflect this social change.\n\nCharacters with these names appear in \"The Phantom of Kansas\", \"Picnic on Nearside\" and \"Steel Beach\". It is by no means clear that they are the same people except in the first two, where Fox's mother's name is Carnival. Fox encounters her own clone in \"Phantom\", illegally made in a strange form of kidnapping. They discover a mutual affection and leave Luna as a couple for somewhere with less restrictive laws.\n\nCathay, a Teacher, appears in the short story \"Beatnik Bayou\" and \"The Ophiuchi Hotline\". His job entails working exclusively with one child for an extended period of his or her early life. In \"Beatnik Bayou\" he actually regresses physically to the age of the child and grows up at the same rate, keeping his adult mentality, but an incident results in him being professionally disgraced. In \"The Ophiuchi Hotline\" he is cloned illegally by the character \"Boss Tweed\", so that two of him are major characters in that novel.\nParameter is a woman who, after a life of debauchery fueled by inherited money, tries the only untried experience left, that of half of a symbiotic pair living among the rings of Saturn, as described in the story \"Equinoctial\". Her first pairing ends when she is captured by religious fanatics who kidnap her newborn children to raise in their religion. Her symb partner, who took the name \"Equinox\", is killed, which almost drives Parameter insane. Offered another partner, she reluctantly accepts. The new symb takes the name \"Solstice\". The two are eventually reunited with her children. In \"The Ophiuchi Hotline\" she helps Lilo hide a cloned body in a capsule orbiting Saturn.\n\nA journalist who was born Maria Cabrini, then used the name Mario after her first Change, but eventually took a new name from \"The Front Page\". Hildy is the central character in \"Steel Beach\" and has appeared as a minor character in other works.\n\nActor and con-man. The main character of \"The Golden Globe\".\n\nDescribed at length in \"The Ophiuchi Hotline\", the Invaders are inhabitants of gas-giant planets like Jupiter. They transcend the limits of four-dimensional spacetime and can manipulate time and space at will. They classify living beings in one of three categories: those such as themselves, who arise in gas giant planets everywhere, cetaceans such as dolphins and whales, and vermin, the last category including all sentient beings other than Invaders and cetaceans.\n\nThe Invasion of Earth was carried out to protect cetaceans from the effects of human civilization. Although no humans were directly killed, billions died as the Invaders dismantled all the infrastructure needed to support human civilization on Earth. The human population remaining on Earth after the Invasion is about the same as in prehistory, living in tribes without access to technology. This is a scenario that has been played out for millions of years across the galaxy. Inevitably the human species will be forced out of the Solar System altogether, to live between the stars where other displaced intelligences are already in residence.\n\nA result of the invasion and conquest of Earth is the polarizing of human politics in the remaining human worlds between the Free Earther Party and its opponents (who don't seem to have a specific name). Free Earthers are intransigently unreconciled to the loss of Humanity's original world and are committed to continued resistance to the invaders and eventual liberation of Earth. Boss Tweed, the main villain of \"The Ophiuchi Hotline\", is an outspoken Free Earther - though in his case it is difficult to distinguish where commitment to the Free Earth cause ends and a simple lust for power begins. The Free Earthers' more pragmatic opponents point out that humanity has not found any effective means of opposing the Invaders' overwhelming four-dimensional weapons - or even understanding how they work; that Humanity is doing quite well on the remaining Eight Worlds; and that provoking the Invaders would not free the Earth but might endanger what humans still have. Ultimately, these cautions prove to have been completely justified; the Free Earthers' attempt to attack Jupiter does no real harm to the Invaders (as far as humans can see) but does provoke them into destroying the Eight Worlds and altogether expelling humans from the Solar System. As is eventually disclosed, this outcome was virtually inevitable. In every system which was invaded before and where the hitherto dominant species was driven off its home world in order to protect that world's Cetaceans, there always develops an intransigent faction seeking to liberate the home planet, and its actions always ultimately cause the Invaders to drive the species altogether out of its original system. Since it already happened so many times before, presumably the Invaders in Humanity's Solar System anticipated it from the start and were patiently waiting for the Free Earthers to provide them with a pretext - though Humanity remains almost completely ignorant of who the Invaders truly are and how their minds work.\n\nThe novel \"Steel Beach\" introduces the \"Heinleiners,\" a group of idealists and freethinkers attempting to build a starship while following a kind of extreme libertarianism. New technologies such the \"null field\" and a \"FTL propulsion system\" are ascribed to them, rather than coming from the Ophiuchi Hotline as per earlier stories. The group's name is an homage to Robert A. Heinlein. Their primary inventor and \"leader\" uses the pseudonym \"Valentine Michael Smith\", an homage to Heinlein's novel \"Stranger in a Strange Land\". Hildy's discussions with Smith are usually a give-and-take discussion of the costs and benefits of their philosophy versus the minimalist autocracy of how the Central Computer runs Luna, with neither side being idealized.\n\nThe Heinleiners are referenced by Sparky Valentine in \"The Golden Globe\" but do not appear.\n\nApparently a settlement on the far side of Luna from Earth, it features in several stories, including \"Options\", a story about the early days when people can change sex at will. In \"Picnic on Nearside\" two adolescents leave King City to explore the old cities on the other side of Luna, from which Earth can be seen all the time. These were abandoned after the Invasion, as people did not like to look at what they had lost.\n\nThese are vast caverns designed as resorts or simulations of places on Earth. In \"The Phantom of Kansas\" the character Fox arranges weather sculptures in the eponymous disneyland, coordinating lightning strikes and tornadoes in a gigantic light show. In \"Beatnik Bayou\" there is a smaller disneyland simulating 1930's Louisiana (with an anachronistic Toyota truck). The story \"Goodbye Robinson Crusoe\" takes place in a similar partly-finished construction on Pluto.\n\nHumans possess several advanced technologies, many supposedly derived from information contained in the \"Ophiuchi Hotline\", a stream of data travelling on a laser beam, apparently from the star 70 Ophiuchi. The novel \"Steel Beach\" describes new technologies: the \"null field\" and a \"FTL propulsion system\". These are attributed to \"Valentine Michael Smith\", the \"leader\" of a group of idealists known as the \"Heinleiners\", and whose pseudonym is an homage to Heinlein and his novel \"Stranger in a Strange Land\".\n\nA variant on the \"force field\" idea, the nullfield can wrap any object or volume in a shell which cannot be penetrated by anything, except gravity and certain kinds of light. Worn like a second skin, it is the ultimate spacesuit. It can also be a domed tent for life on the surface of Luna, Mercury or Venus. To someone outside, a nullfield looks like a perfect mirror in the shape of whatever it contains. In the stories, people in nullfield suits survive falling into Jupiter, skimming the outer atmosphere of the Sun, walking on the surface of Venus, and being buried alive on Mercury (though the kinetic energy of being shot can cause fatal heat buildup). Two nullfields can merge, allowing people wearing them to touch each other, making for a way of passing the time when buried alive, waiting to be rescued. A nullfield can also be used as a doorway between pressurized quarters and vacuum. A person with a personal suit generator can walk through the nullfield doorway from air to vacuum, and their suit will form automatically.\n\nUsually called \"Symbs\", these are a semi-living material which can supply all the needs of a human body, requiring only sunlight and some trace elements. A Symb will enfold and penetrate the body of someone who wants to enter into symbiosis with it, forming a Symb Pair. One of the side effects is that the Symb forms a personality of its own in the brain of the human. It also vastly increases the efficiency of the brain, and enhances artistic abilities. Almost all Symb Pairs live in the rings of Saturn, trading artworks for their few material needs. Symbs appear in the novel \"The Ophiuchi Hotline\" and the short stories \"Gotta Sing, Gotta Dance\" and \"Equinoctial\". \n\nIn \"Equinoctial\" two factions of Symb Pairs are engaged in a Holy War. One faction is intent on coloring the second (\"B\") ring of Saturn red using genetically engineered bacteria, as a kind of cosmic statement. The other faction intend to prevent this and reverse any coloring they find. Both sides are deadly serious in this, the one considering the coloring of the rings a Holy Mission fully worth the devotion of one's life and justifying the killing of anyone interfering with this task; the other faction is equally sure that coloring the rings is a Sacrilege grave enough to kill those involved in it and to devote one's life to reversing it. The struggle is expected to last for millennia as each side tries to out-populate the other, often by kidnapping each other's children - and it seems the rest of the Eight Worlds are content to let them continue their war, no one trying to stop it and make peace. A third faction lives in the outer \"A\" ring and takes no part in the war, preferring to produce art to sell as needed. Although Saturn is a gas giant like Jupiter, the Invaders clearly have no interest in it, or any human activity in its vicinity. \n\nIn \"The Ophiuchi Hotline\" it is revealed that the Symbs are a trojan horse of sorts. If the demands of the Hotline operators are not met, the Symb Pairs will transform into unstoppable warriors capable of destroying all human space habitats. However the demands consist only of allowing alien minds to assimilate human culture by riding along in the minds of selected people.\n\nOddly, the creators of the Hotline data seem to know a lot about genetics. Humans in the Eight Worlds use this information to create new animal and plant species, but manipulating human DNA is illegal. This is an important plot point in the final episode of the series \"The Ophiuchi Hotline\". Minor modifications of the body are routine, such as the addition of gills for underwater breathing (\"Goodbye, Robinson Crusoe\") or decorative alterations, such as growing fur on various parts of the body. A popular modification consists of replacing feet with grasping hand-like structures called \"peds\", which are especially useful in microgravity. In \"The Ophiuchi Hotline\" a character known as \"Javelin\" takes modification to extremes by having only one arm and one leg, with a \"ped\", at opposite corners of a slim body. Other characters dispense with legs altogether for life in space.\n\nUsing a fictional chemical called \"ferrophotonucleic acid\", or \"FPNA\", the state of a person's brain can be preserved in long molecular chains, and replayed into a new brain. This is used for two purposes.\n\nFirst, people can record their personalities and all their memories into storage, along with a sample of their tissue. If they die, a copy can be cloned and returned to life with the memories they had up to the time of recording. This is a plot point in \"The Phantom of Kansas\" where the character Fox awakes to find she is a clone who has been revived after her original self, and the subsequent clone, were both mysteriously murdered. In \"The Ophiuchi Hotline\" the character Lilo is cloned several times by the politician Boss Tweed to carry out missions for him, as are several other characters. The law also provides for a sentence of \"Death with immediate reprieve\" where a criminal is killed and a clone is revived with memories from before the commission of the crime. The \"innocent\" copy has to undergo therapy to avoid a repeat of the criminal act. This sentence can even be applied to simple assault, as in \"Beatnik Bayou\", if the crime is severe enough.\n\nThe other use is a kind of tourism where the personality can be transferred into some other brain to absorb some experience, followed by re-playing that into the original brain. In the story \"Overdrawn at the Memory Bank\" a man's personality is recorded and placed in the brain of a lioness in one of the wildlife reserves on Luna. Unfortunately his body goes missing, and he spends a long time in the computer network, keeping his \"new\" memories alive. In the process he goes to virtual university and also threatens the financial stability of the society when he starts tinkering. After what seems like months to him, he is reunited with his body and finds that only a few hours have passed.\n\nBlack holes are a major source of energy for the Eight Worlds' society. They are quite rare but can be found - if one is persistent enough \"and\" lucky - in the space beyond Pluto. A single black hole, when dragged back into the system and installed in a power station, would be enough for a prospector to live in wealth for the rest of his or her life. Such prospectors - the successors of historical gold prospectors - spend up to twenty years at a time in solitary voyages, constantly keeping an eye on their mass detector and hoping for the one great strike which would make their fortune. Hole hunters tend to be greedy, self-centered and self-sufficient. When more than one happens to discover the same hole, one of them tends to have \"an accident\", far away from any kind of law and order and into which the authorities don't inquire too closely. The propulsion jets used by the prospectors' ships can be made into deadly weapons, able to vaporize a rival's ship in a split second.\n\nAs recounted in \"Lollipop and the Tar Baby\", there is an additional complicating factor which humans are unaware of - i.e. the black holes (or at least some of them) are sentient beings, highly intelligent, with enormous knowledge gathered during millions of years of life, and who don't at all like the idea of being trapped inside a human power station. From intercepted radio signals they can and do study humans and gain detailed knowledge of their society, law and technology. The holes can communicate with humans at will and are able to manipulate them. At the same time, such intelligent black holes in no way share human values and human morality; to them, human beings and human ships, like any other kind of matter, are simply food. The black holes have no interest in humans knowing any of that, and some of the \"accidents\" afflicting hole hunters are due to them rather than to human rivals. The protagonist of \"Tar Baby\", who discovers it and survives, has very good reasons to keep the knowledge to herself and avoid drawing attention to what she had been doing in the far reaches of space.\n\nAt the end of \"The Ophiuchi Hotline\" one of the characters is translated by the Invaders from the far future of Earth to the source of the Hotline, where other characters have arrived by ship. She arrives holding something inside a \"nullfield\". The aliens who run the Hotline recognize this as a singularity that can be used to nullify mass and momentum, providing the means to create a faster than light drive. At some point in their occupation of a system the Invaders allow the races they displace to obtain a singularity. This is usually followed by the extermination of those who do not leave the system.\n\nIn the Author's Note of \"Steel Beach\", Varley states: \nThis story appears to be part of a future history of mine, often called the Eight Worlds. It does share background, characters, and technology with earlier stories of mine... What it doesn't share is a chronology. The reason for this is simple: the thought of going back, rereading all those old stories, and putting them in coherent order filled me with ennui... \"Steel Beach\" is \"not\" really part of the Eight Worlds future history. Or the Eight Worlds is not really a future history, since that implies an orderly progression of events. Take your pick.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081389", "title": "Toxicoscordion venenosum", "text": "Toxicoscordion venenosum\n\nToxicoscordion venenosum, with the common names death camas and meadow death camas, is a species of flowering plants in the genus \"Toxicoscordion\", of the Melanthiaceae family. It is native to western North America.\n\nThe plant is called alapíšaš in Sahaptin, and nupqasaquǂ (\"nup-ka-sa-qush\") in Ktunaxa.\n\n\"Toxicoscordion venenosum\" grows up to 70 cm tall with long, basal, grass-like leaves. The bulbs are oval and look like onions but do not smell like edible onions of the genus \"Allium\".\n\nThe flowers are cream coloured or white and grow in pointed clusters, flowering between April and July.\n\nVarieties include:\n\nThe plant is widespread across much of Western Canada, the Western United States, and northern Baja California (México). They tend to grow in dry meadows and on dry hillsides as well as sagebrush slopes and montane forests.\n\nAll parts of the plant are poisonous. It is dangerous for humans as well as livestock. Consumption of 2% to 6% of the body weight of the animal is likely to be fatal. Along with other alkaloids, zygacine and other toxic esters of zygadenine are the primary neurotoxic alkaloids contributing to the plant's toxicity.\nThe plant is visited by a specialist mining bee, \"Andrena astragali\", which is possibly the only bee that can tolerate its toxins.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081392", "title": "Calum Best", "text": "Calum Best\n\nCalum Milan Best (born February 6, 1981) is a British-American television personality. He is the son of footballer George Best.\n\nBest was born in San Jose, California, the son of parents from the United Kingdom: Angie Best (née Angela MacDonald Janes), an English model, and George Best, a Northern Irish footballer. Calum was raised in Los Angeles, where he became a model in his mid-teens.\n\nHis father was an acclaimed Northern Ireland footballer. Best is a patron of the National Association for Children of Alcoholics (\"Nacoa\"), a UK charity providing support to children affected by a parent's drinking. He moved to his parents' native United Kingdom when he was 21.\n\nBest has taken part in the reality TV shows \"Fool Around With\" on E4 and \"The Match\" on Sky One. In 2005 and 2006 he was featured in ITV's \"Celebrity Love Island\", winning the second series on August 28, 2006. Around this time he played himself in the final episode of ITV's \"Footballers' Wives\". In September 2006, Best appeared in the ITV2 series \"Calum, Fran and Dangerous Danan\", in which he was seen travelling with Paul Danan and Fran Cosgrave from Texas to Los Angeles on America's U.S. Route 66.\n\nIn late 2006, Best launched a men's fragrance called \"Calum\", stating \"I had all the input into the smell. I chose the smell, I chose the bottle, I chose the packaging, the whole thing\", the product is being made by Jigsaw ESL.\n\nBest went on to launch his second fragrance, called \"Best\". After that success, Jigsaw ESL also manufactured his third fragrance called \"Day and Night\".\n\nIn 2008, Best appeared on RTÉ's \"Livin' With Lucy\". Later that year, he featured in MTV's \"Totally Calum Best\". The show detailed Best's attempts to remain celibate for fifty days.\n\nIn 2009, he appeared as a guest judge in reality television show \"Paris Hilton's British Best Friend\", in which he tested the contestants' flirting abilities. In November 2009, he presented the BBC TV Documentary \"Brought up By Booze: A Children in Need Special\", which highlighted the plight of children brought up by alcoholic parents. Best drew upon his relationship with his own father in the making of the programme, which the BBC described as a 'raw and often distressing journey'.\n\nIn 2010, Best appeared in Channel 4's \"Come Dine With Me\", where he dined with Janice Dickinson, Samantha Fox and presenter Jeff Brazier.\n\nCalum hosted via webcam an Online bingo session at Bingocams UK on April 20, 2012.\n\nIn 2012, he won \"Celebrity Bainisteoir\", managing Moy Davitts of Mayo.\n\nIn January 2015, he took part in the fifteenth series of Channel 5 reality series \"Celebrity Big Brother\". He came third.\nIn 2016, Best was a member of the cast of the E! series \"Famously Single\", which follows eight single celebrities in their search for love. He also returned for the second season of \"Famously Single\" which premiered June 25, 2017. \n\nOn January 3, 2017, he returned to compete on the nineteenth series of \"Celebrity Big Brother\", in which he finished in seventh place.\n\nOn March 22, 2017, he presented the documentary \"My Best\", directed by Luigi Maria Perotti.\n\nIn 2017 Best appeared in third series of Celebs Go Dating \n\nIn 2020 Best appeared in eleventh series of Ex On The Beach \n"}
{"id": "2081394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081394", "title": "Ajax Delgado", "text": "Ajax Delgado\n\nAyax Delgado Lopez was the son of a coffee grower in northern Nicaragua, Santiago Delgado Guevara and his mother was Luz Lopez Rivera. Ayax was born in Jinotega, Nicaragua, July 14, 1941, and was murdered September 5, 1960. He had one brother, Ruy Delgado Lopez, born in Managua, Nicaragua, June 22, 1949, and five sisters. At a very young age, he became a student activist against the Somoza regime. Ayax also spent a year in Oxford. His father was a former member of the National Guard trained by the United States Marines during the Sandino period. Around the time when Anastasio Somoza García seized power of the National Guard, Ayax's father, Santiago Delgado, conspired with his brother, Edmundo Delgado, and Abelardo Cuadra, among other National Guard members, to overthrow Somoza from power.\n\nThe plot was discovered and the Delgado brothers and the other conspirators were thrown in jail under threat of execution. Somoza later released the conspirators, but from that moment on all the conspirators became permanent enemies of the regime and were under constant surveillance. Many of them went into exile to avoid the threats and harassment from the Somoza regime.\n\nAyax Delgado was captured after participating in \"illegal\" demonstrations, but he was also implicated in a bombing that claimed the life of a watchman guarding \"Casa Pellas\", a business of a renowned Managua businessman. Santiago Delgado (who recently died at the age of 96) begged Somoza to let his son go, Somoza promised him that nothing was going to happen to his son, and that he would indeed release him. Instead, Somoza ordered a plot to entice Ayax to escape using an opening in the ceiling of his cell, which he did. It was a dark night and a guard posted on the rooftop was ordered to shoot Ayax as an opportunity presented itself to do so. As Ayax looked for a way off the roof onto the street, the guard shot Ayax in the face. The bullet entered his face through one eye. As this was an explosive round, the back of his head was blown into pieces. Years later, someone testified that guard that killed Ayax told him that when he confronted ayax in the rooftop of the prison, he said to him: \"Asi te queria agarrar, Chelito\" ( that's how I wanted to get you, blondie), referring to his white skin and blond hair. Ayax died instantly.\n\nAyax Delgado was 17 years old when he was imprisoned and reached his 18th birthday while in jail. His body was then put in a bag and thrown on top of a military vehicle and later dumped in the street where his parents lived. His family was expecting his release but was choked to find out that Ayax had actually died while \"escaping\" from prison. The guard later died in a \"bar brawl\".\n\nDuring the Sandinista revolution, Ayax Delgado was considered a martyr. In Managua, the capital of Nicaragua, there is a police station and a gymnasium run by the government that bear his name.\n\nAyax Delgado was a typical member of the several student organizations opposing the Somoza regime. Many of these students came from middle- and upper-middle-class families. Many of them were killed or tortured under Somoza's repressive government.\n"}
{"id": "2081398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081398", "title": "Koznitsa (village)", "text": "Koznitsa (village)\n\nKoznitsa () is a village in south-eastern Bulgaria, situated in the Nesebar Municipality of the Burgas Province.\n"}
{"id": "2081399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081399", "title": "Association of Independent Members", "text": "Association of Independent Members\n\nThe Association of Independent Members is a political party in the Solomon Islands. \nAt the last legislative elections, 5 December 2001, the party won 13 out of 50 seats.\n"}
{"id": "2081402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081402", "title": "People's Alliance Party (Solomon Islands)", "text": "People's Alliance Party (Solomon Islands)\n\nThe People's Alliance Party (PAP) is a political party in the Solomon Islands.\n\nThe PAP was formed in 1979 through a merger of the Rural Alliance Party and the People's Progressive Party. Led by Solomon Mamaloni, it won ten of the 38 seats in the 1980 general elections and Mamaloni became Leader of the Opposition. When the Solomon Islands United Party (SIUP) government fell in 1981, Mamaloni was able to form a coalition government with the National Democratic Party and independent MPs and became Prime Minister. The party received the most votes in the 1984 elections, winning 12 seats. However, the SIUP won 14 and the PAP returned to opposition.\n\nThe PAP won a landslide victory in the 1989 elections, taking 23 of the 38 seats and Mamaloni became Prime Minister again. The 1993 elections saw the party reduced to nine seats as the Solomon Islands Government of National Unity, Reconciliation and Progress Party (SIGNUR) won 20. However, SIGNUR leader Francis Billy Hilly lost a vote of no-confidence in 1994 and Mamaloni was elected Prime Minister in his place. The PAP won only seven seats in the 1997 elections, resulting in Mamaloni returning to being Leader of the Opposition, a post he held until his death in 2000.\n\nThe party won 20 of the 50 seats in the 2001 elections, becoming the largest party in Parliament. The PAP's Allan Kemakeza became Prime Minister. In the 2006 elections, the party was reduced to three seats in a Parliament dominated by independents. It won two seats in the 2010 elections, and three in the 2014 elections.\n"}
{"id": "2081403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081403", "title": "People's Progressive Party (Solomon Islands)", "text": "People's Progressive Party (Solomon Islands)\n\nThe People's Progressive Party (PPP) was a political party in the Solomon Islands.\n\nThe PPP was established in February 1974. It was initially led by Solomon Mamaloni and was estimated to have around six members of the Governing Council. Later in the year, an election was held for the first Chief Minister. Mamaloni defeated Benedict Kinika of the United Solomon Islands Party and formed a cabinet of PPP members and independents. He resigned in November 1975 after an inquiry into action taken without consulting his cabinet, and when he was re-elected in December he formed a cabinet with five USIPA members, two from the PPP and one independent.\n\nFollowing the formation of the new government and prior to the 1976 general elections, the PPP and USIPA both disintegrated. In 1979 it merged with the Rural Alliance Party to form the People's Alliance Party.\n"}
{"id": "2081405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081405", "title": "Solomon Islands Alliance for Change", "text": "Solomon Islands Alliance for Change\n\nThe Solomon Islands Alliance for Change is a political alliance in the Solomon Islands, led by the Solomon Islands Liberal Party, which was headed by Bartholomew Ulufa'alu until his death in May 2007.\n\nThe SIAC includes the National Party, Solomon Islands Social Credit Party, Solomon Islands Liberal Party, and the Solomon Islands Party for Rural Advancement.\n\nIt was originally called the Solomon Islands Coalition for Change. The name was changed to Solomon Islands Alliance for Change, or SIAC. It campaigned as the Solomon Islands Alliance for Change Coalition.\n\nIt won power in 1997 and began government reform. Manasseh Sogavare was a member, and served as Finance Minister in Ulufa'ulu's Government.\n\nAt the legislative elections, 5 December 2001, the alliance won 12 out of 50 seats. At the last elections in April 2006, it also won about 12 seats.\n"}
{"id": "2081414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081414", "title": "Goff", "text": "Goff\n\nGoff is a surname with several distinct origins, mainly Germanic, Celtic, Jewish, and French. It is the 946th most common family name in the United States. When the surname originates from England it is derived from an occupational name from German, Cornish and Breton. The German \"Goff\" means a godly person, a strong warrior, or a priest. The Breton \"goff\" means \"smith\" (cognate with Gaelic \"gobha\"). The English-originating surname is common in East Anglia, where it is of Breton origin. The Welsh name is a variant of the surname Gough, and is derived from a nickname for someone with red hair. The native Irish name is derived from a patronymic form of the Gaelic personal name Eochaidh/Eachaidh, which means \"horseman\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081417", "title": "National Undersea Research Program", "text": "National Undersea Research Program\n\nThe National Undersea Research Program (NURP) is a U.S. government program that operates six facilities for undersea research, including the world's only permanent undersea research facility, Aquarius. The program is operated under the auspices of the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research, a division of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). Each center is funded by a grant from NOAA. Projects are chosen based upon peer review.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081421", "title": "Solomon Islands Liberal Party", "text": "Solomon Islands Liberal Party\n\nThe Solomon Islands Liberal Party (SILP) was a political party in the Solomon Islands.\n\nThe party was established as the Nationalist Party in 1975, before becoming the National Democratic Party (NADEPA). Its founders, Joses Tuhanuku and Bartholomew Ulufa'alu, were trade union leaders, with Tuhanuku heading the Solomon Islands General Workers' Union. It won eight of the 38 seats in the 1976 general elections. It was reduced to two seats in the 1980 elections and one seat in the 1984 elections.\n\nIn 1986 the party was renamed the Solomon Islands Liberal Party; a split later saw Tuhanuku leave to form the Solomon Islands Labour Party in 1988. In the 1989 elections it won two seats, but lost both in the 1993 elections. It won four seats in the 1997 elections, in which it was part of the Solomon Islands Alliance for Change. The alliance parties won a narrow majority in Parliament and Ulufa'alu became Prime Minister. The alliance lost power as a result of the 2001 elections, which saw it win only 12 of the 50 seats, of which the SILP took two.\n\nThe party won two seats in the 2006 elections, and one in the 2010 elections, with Prime Minister Derek Sikua being its sole successful candidate in North East Guadalcanal. It did not contest the 2014 elections.\n"}
{"id": "2081446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081446", "title": "Kočevski Rog", "text": "Kočevski Rog\n\nKočevski Rog or Kočevje Rog () or simply Rog is a karstified plateau in the Kočevje Highlands above the Črmošnjice Valley in southeastern Slovenia. The plateau is part of the traditional Lower Carniola region of Slovenia and of the Dinaric Alps. The highest area is the central part, with the 1099-metre-high peak of Veliki Rog. The plateau is densely forested. The only ski slope in Lower Carniola, Rog-Črmošnjice (or Gače) also lies in the vicinity of Rog.\n\nThis area, known in German as Gottschee, was settled in the late 14th century by the Carinthian Counts of Ortenburg initially with colonists from the Ortenburg estates in Carinthia and Tyrol, and by other settlers who came from Austrian and German Dioceses of Salzburg, Brixen and Freising. The settlers cleared the vacant and heavily forested land, and established towns and rural villages. The area of Carniola that was to become Gottschee had been a strategic part of the Holy Roman Empire since the year 800. As a result, there were a number of important fortifications in and around Gottschee, which received its municipal charter and city seal in 1471. The Gottschee ethnic and linguistic area consisted of more than 180 villages organized into 31 townships and parishes.\n\nGottscheer began to emigrate from their homeland around 1870, with most going to the United States. With the end of the Habsburg Monarchy in 1918, Gottschee became a part of the new Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Thus, the Gottscheer went from being part of the ruling ethnicity of Austria-Hungary (and the ruling group in the estates of the province of Carniola itself) to an ethnic minority in a large Slavic state.\n\nWhile some Gottscheer community leaders had embraced Nazism and agitated for \"assistance\" and \"repatriation\" to the Reich before the Wehrmacht invasion in 1941, most Gottscheer had no interest in reuniting with Greater Germany or joining the Nazis. \n\nThey had been integrated into society with their Slovenian neighbors, often intermarrying among Slovenians and becoming bilingual while maintaining their Germanic language and customs since their arrival in the region in the late 14th century. However, propaganda and Nazi ideology prevailed, and following an agreement between Benito Mussolini and Adolf Hitler, the VoMi began planning the Gottschee \"resettlement\" (forced expulsion) from the Italian occupation zone to the Rann Triangle (), a region in Lower Styria between the confluences of the Krka, Sotla, and Sava rivers.\n\nTo achieve that goal, accommodation had to be made for the Gottschee \"settlers\" and some 46,000 Slovenians in the Rann Triangle region were forcibly deported to eastern Germany for potential Germanisation or forced labor beginning in November 1941. Shortly before that time, a largely transparent propaganda effort was aimed toward both the Gottscheer and the Slovenians, promising the latter equivalent farmland in Germany for the land relinquished in Lower Styria. The Gottscheer were given Reich passports and transportation to the Rann area just after the forced departure of the Slovenians. Most of the Gottschee fled due to coercion and threats since the VoMi had a deadline of 31 December 1941 for the mass movement of both groups. Though many Gottscheer did receive farmland and households, these were of lesser quality than their own, and many were in disarray from the hasty forced expulsion of the Slovenians.\n\nFrom the time of their arrival to the end of the war, Gottschee farmers were harassed and sometimes killed by Tito's Partisans. The attempt to resettle the Gottscheer was a costly failure for the Nazi regime, since extra manpower was required to protect the farmers from the partisans. In 1945 the Gottscheer mostly fled to Austria and Germany.\n\nMost Gottschee were as much victims as the Slovenians deported to the Reich, though the former were not used for forced labor as the latter were. The deported Slovenians were taken to several camps in Saxony, Silesia, and elsewhere in Germany where they were forced to work on German farms or in factories run by German industries from 1941-45. The forced laborers were not always kept in formal concentration camps, but often just vacant buildings where they slept until the next day's labor took them outside these quarters. Toward the close of the war, these camps were liberated by American and Soviet troops, and the later repatriated Slovenian refugees returned to Yugoslavia to find their homes in shambles. Since then, the Rog area has been largely uninhabited.\n\nYugoslavia was invaded by the Wehrmacht on 6 April 1941, and groups of Partisans began to gather in Kočevski Rog as early as August 1941. From May 1942 on, large areas of liberated territory were established in the Lower Carniola, the Inner Carniola and the White Carniola, with Kočevski Rog as the centre of resistance to the occupation and home to the leadership of the Liberation Front of the Slovenian People. \n\nFollowing an Italian offensive in the summer of 1942, the leaders fled to forested hills above Polhov Gradec, where they decided that Rog would be the location of Partisan hospitals, workshops, schools printing houses and stores. The leadership returned to Rog on 17 April 1943, setting up a major facility with associated barracks called Baza 20 (\"Base 20\"), which is still preserved and today is a tourist attraction. It became the headquarters of the Liberation Front of the Slovenian People, the headquarters of the High Command of Slovene Partisan troops and of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Slovenia (CK KPS).\n\nKočevski Rog was also a location where thousands of people, such as the Slovene Home Guard () and their families, were executed by special units of the Yugoslav Army in late May 1945. They were thrown into various pits and caves, which were then sealed with explosives. Several thousand (between 10,000 and 12,000, according to certain sources) \n\nNikolai Tolstoy mentions the events in his book \"The Minister and the Massacres\" and John Corsellis, who served in Austria with the British Army, wrote about the events in his book, \"Slovenia 1945: Memories of Death and Survival after World War II\".\n\nBoris Karapandžić writes that there were 12,000 Slovenian \"home guards\", 3,000 Serbian volunteer troops, 1,000 Montenegrin \"chetniks\" and 2,500 Croatian \"home guards\". Karapandžić's report is confirmed in subsequent book by a group of scholars.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081448", "title": "Martinus Nijhoff", "text": "Martinus Nijhoff\n\nMartinus Nijhoff (20 April 1894 in The Hague – 26 January 1953 in The Hague) was a Dutch poet and essayist. He studied literature in Amsterdam and law in Utrecht. His debut was made in 1916 with his volume \"De wandelaar\" (\"The wanderer\"). From that moment he gradually expanded his reputation by his unique style of poetry: not experimental, like Paul Van Ostaijen, yet distinguished by the clarity of his language combined with mystical content. He was a literary craftsman who employed skilfully various verse forms from different literary epochs.\n\nSome of his best-known works include \"Het Uur U\" (\"H Hour\", 1936) and the long poem \"Awater\" (1934). A number of individual sonnets also rose to fame, particularly \"De Moeder de Vrouw\" (\"The Mother the Woman/Wife\") commemorating the opening of a bridge over the river Waal near Zaltbommel. Joseph Brodsky considered the poem \"Awater\" one of the grandest poems of the 20th century. He was awarded Constantijn Huygens Prize posthumously in 1953.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081456", "title": "Frithiof's Saga", "text": "Frithiof's Saga\n\nFrithiof's Saga () is a legendary saga from Iceland which in its present form is from ca. 1300. It is a continuation from \"The Saga of Thorstein Víkingsson\" (\"Þorsteins saga Víkingssonar\"). It takes place principally in Norway during the 8th century.\n\nKing Beli of Sogn (a traditional district in Western Norway) had two sons and a daughter named Ingeborg. Helgi was his first son, and Halfdan his second. On the other side of the fjord, lived the king's friend Thorstein (Þorsteinn Víkingsson) whose son Frithjof (\"Friðþjófr\") was called the bold (\"hinn frœkni\"). Frithiof was the tallest, strongest and he was the bravest among men.\n\nWhen the king's children were but young their mother died. A goodman of Sogn named Hilding (\"Hildingr\"), prayed to have the king's daughter to foster. Frithjof was the foster-brother to the king's daughter as he was also raised together with Ingeborg (\"Ingibjörg\") by their foster-father Hilding.\n\nBoth Beli and Þorsteinn died in war whereupon Helgi and Halfdan took over the kingdom. The two kings were jealous of Frithjof's excellent qualities and so they denied him Ingeborg's hand. They took her to Baldr's sacred enclosure \"Baldrshagi\" where no one dared hurt another and where no woman and man had intercourse. Still Frithjof visited Ingeborg and they continued to love each other. This caused Helgi and Halfdan to send Frithjof away to Orkney to take tribute and while he was away they burnt down his homestead and married Ingeborg to King Ring, the aged king of Ringerike.\n\nWhen Frithjof returned with the tribute, he burnt down Baldr's temple in Baldrshagi and went away to live as a Viking. After three years, he came to King Ring and spent the winter with him. Just before the old king died, Frithjof's identity was apparent to everybody and so the dying king appointed Frithjof earl and made him the care-taker of Ring's and Ingeborg's child.\n\nWhen Ring had died, Frithjof and Ingeborg married and he became the king of Ringerike. Then he declared war on Ingeborg's brothers, killed one of them and made the second one his vassal.\n\n\"Frithiof's Saga\" had first been translated into Swedish in 1737. In 1820, Swedish writer Esaias Tegnér published a partial paraphrase in form of epic poetry in \"Iduna\", the journal of the Geatish Society. In 1822, he composed five more cantos. In 1825 he published the entire poem \"Frithiof's Saga\". Even before it was completed, it was famous throughout Europe; the aged Johann Wolfgang von Goethe took up his pen to commend to his countrymen this \"alte, kraftige, gigantischbarbarische Dichtart\" (\"old, mighty, gigantic-barbaric style of verse\"), and desired to translate it into German. This romantic paraphrase of an ancient saga was composed in twenty-four cantos, all using different poetic forms.\n\nKaiser Wilhelm II of Germany had a statue of Fridtjof raised in the village of Vangsnes in Vik in the county of Sogn og Fjordane, Norway. The Statue of Fridtjof (\"Fridtjof den frøkne\") is a landmark which towers 22.5 metres (74 ft) over the hilltop. It stands in a park overlooking the Sognefjord. The statue was sculpted by the German sculptor and art professor Max Unger (1854-1918) and was erected in July 1913. Wilhelm II also ordered in 1890 that a coastal defense ship be named after the Norse hero.\n\n\"Frithjof's Saga\" was used as an inspiration by several composers. Examples include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081458", "title": "Nassau (crater)", "text": "Nassau (crater)\n\nNassau is a lunar impact crater on the Moon's far side. It abuts against the northeastern rim of the figure-8-shaped crater Van de Graaff. To the southeast of Nassau lies the crater Leeuwenhoek, and to the east is Orlov.\n\nNassau has a somewhat eroded crater rim, with small craters lying across the edge along the eastern, northwestern and southwestern sides. Along the southwestern inner wall, where the crater joins Van de Graaff, a ridge of material extends northward part way into the interior floor. The bottom of the crater is nearly level, but is marked by several small craterlets. The most notable of these interior craters lies near the midpoint.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Nassau.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081473", "title": "Frédéric Michalak", "text": "Frédéric Michalak\n\nFrédéric Michalak (born 16 October 1982) is a French rugby union footballer, who currently plays for the Lyon OU in the Top 14. His early career was spent playing for his hometown team, Toulouse, in the Top 14 and in the Heineken Cup. He moved to South Africa to play for the Sharks in the Super 14 after the 2007 Rugby World Cup, but after just one year with the Sharks he moved back to Toulouse. He has also played over 70 tests for France to date, and is the country's leading Test point scorer, achieving that milestone in 2015. Michalak originally played scrum-half but has played mainly at fly-half. He has appeared in advertisements for companies such as Nike and Levis.\n\nMichalak made his debut for Toulouse in 1998. He was a member of the team that won the French championship in 2001 and the Heineken Cup in 2003 and 2005. Michalak made his first appearance for France against South Africa on 10 November 2001 and became a regular on the French side. He was selected as a member of the squad for the 2003 Rugby World Cup in Australia and the 2007 Rugby World Cup in France. Michalak was also a part of the Six Nations French Grand Slam winners in 2004 and the champions of 2006.\n\nMichalak's club Stade Toulousain were crowned the champions of France in 2001 when they defeated Montferrand in the final 34–22. Later that year, in November, Michalak made his international debut for France, coming on as a replacement in a match against South Africa in Paris at the national stadium, Stade de France. France won the match 20–10. He was then promoted to the starting line-up for a test against Australia the following week in Marseille by head coach Bernard Laporte. Michalak played the match at scrum-half and scored his first points for France in the match, landing one penalty goal. France won the match by one point, 14–13. He was used as a replacement in the subsequent match against Fiji at Saint-Étienne, which France also won.\n\nThe following year Michalak was back in the starting line-up for France in a Six Nations match against Italy at Stade de France, which France won 33–12, though Michalak did not play in any other of France's Six Nations matches. France eventually went on to win the tournament. Michalak earned further caps for France that year during June. He was an unused bench replacement in a match against Argentina, but was then moved into the starting line-up for subsequent matches against Australia, both of which France lost.\n\nIn 2003 he started at scrum-half for France in their Six Nations match against Italy in Rome at Stadio Flaminio. France won the match with Michalak also scoring his first try for the national team. He played in one other Six Nations match that year, starting against Wales in Paris, where he scored another try in the 33–5 victory. Toulouse proceeded to win the 2002–03 Heineken Cup, defeating fellow French team USA Perpignan 22–17 in the final. Michalak was then included in the national squad for the June tests prior to the 2003 World Cup in Australia. He was not used in France's first match against Argentina, but came off the bench in the second of two. He then started in the following match against the All Blacks, where he scored eight points with his kicking in the loss. He earned subsequent caps in matches against Romania, scoring 14 points with his boot, and against England where he scored 12 of France's 17 points in the one point victory.\n\nMichalak was subsequently included in France's squad for the 2003 Rugby World Cup and made his World Cup debut against Fiji at Suncorp Stadium in Brisbane during the pool stages, where he scored 26 points. He scored over 20 points in another match against Japan, including a try. He also scored a try in the subsequent game against Scotland and was rested for the final pool match against the United States. Michalak was superb in France's 43–21 quarter-final win over Ireland in Melbourne, landing all nine goal attempts (four conversions and five penalties) for a personal haul of 23 points. France would go on to face World Cup favourites England in the semi-final. On a rainy night in Sydney, Michalak endured a nightmare game with the boot, scoring only once from five attempts before eventually getting replaced as France, despite scoring first, went on to lose the game 24–7. Despite this, Michalak still finished the tournament as the second-highest points scorer with 101 points. Only Jonny Wilkinson (113) scored more.\n\nThe following year, Michalak played in four of France's Six Nations fixtures all in the starting line-up. He was not used in the match against Italy. Toulouse also made it to the final of the 2003–04 Heineken Cup, though they were defeated by the London Wasps. Michalak gained four more caps in November 2004 against Argentina, Australia and the All Blacks. He played in all of France's 2005 Six Nations matches, as well as Toulouse's 2004–05 Heineken Cup victory over Stade Français. He came into the Heineken Cup final under an injury cloud, but showed no signs of it, even sealing the victory for Toulouse in the end with a late drop goal, having also scored two earlier penalties. Toulouse won 18–12 and became the first ever team to win the Cup three times. He was then capped three times in June for France; twice against the Springboks and once against Australia. Michalak was capped another four times in November, against Australia, Canada, Tonga and South Africa. He was named in France's squad for the 2007 Rugby World Cup.\nWithin seconds of coming as a substitute on in the quarter-finals of the tournament, he made a break and then made a pass to Yannick Jauzion who scored a try which when converted gave France a two-point lead which they held onto to beat New Zealand, the tournament favourites.\n\nIn 2011, he participated in \"Rendez-vous en terre inconnue\".\nIn 2019, Frédéric Michalak continued his studies at EM Lyon Business School.\n\nMichalak signed with The Sharks for the Super 14 in 2008. The team, who had previously signed former French internationals Thierry Lacroix and Olivier Roumat, saw him as a key player in the Currie Cup campaign of the , the provincial side that operates the Super Rugby side. Michalak made his Super 14 debut against the Stormers. but featured in only nine games before being sidelined by injury and shortly thereafter ending his spell with The Sharks. He played in the 2008 Currie Cup final, helping the Sharks to win and becoming the third Frenchmen, after Olivier Roumat and Thierry Lacroix to win a Currie Cup medal. Michalak re-signed with his former club Toulouse for the start of the 2008–09 season.\n\nMichalak's second spell with Toulouse was frustrated by injury\nwith two serious injuries that limited his appearances for his club. In March 2010, in a match against rivals Stade Français, Michalak tore cruciate ligaments in a knee and was stretchered off. The injury was expected to sideline him for up to one year.\n\nOn 31 May 2011 it was announced that Michalak had signed a one-year contract with the Sharks, effective immediately—which meant that Michalak would not play in Toulouse's Top 14 final on 4 June. The Sharks' need to fill vacancies left by injuries to several of their scrumhalves is widely considered a key short-term motive for the signing; in the 2012 season, he is seen as an extra option at fly-half, a position where they had issues in 2011. Michalak's final match with the Sharks was the 2012 Super Rugby final against the Chiefs. It was not a memorable occasion for Michalak, as the Chiefs won convincingly 37–6.\n\nAfter over two years out of international rugby, Michalak was recalled by new coach Philippe Saint-André for the 2012 mid-year test series in Argentina. He came on as a replacement in the first test, which France lost 23–20, but started at fly-half for the second test. France won 49–10, and Michalak scored 19 points.\nIn April 2012, Top 14 club Toulon confirmed that Michalak would be joining on a two-year deal.\n\nIn August 2012, Michalak admitted that the prospect of playing for France again was the key reason for his return:\nI could have stayed with the Sharks but to play for France, which remains one of my objectives, it's important to play in France, if only for the calendar. ... [Toulon president] Mourad Boudjellal contacted me quite early last season. With Bernard Laporte they believed in my abilities. I want to thank them because at that time not many clubs would have gambled on me.\n\nIn the final match of the 2013 Six Nations championship, Michalak suffered a dislocated shoulder ruling out any club rugby for 3 weeks.\n\nPlaying as a replacement in the final, Michalak won the 2013 Heineken Cup with Toulon.\n\nDuring France's 2015 World Cup warm-up against England on 22 August, he surpassed Christophe Lamaison as France's all-time leading point scorer.\n\nDuring France's 2015 World Cup match against Canada on 1 October 2015, Michalak became France's all-time leading Rugby World Cup points scorer.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081474", "title": "Tessiner Zeitung", "text": "Tessiner Zeitung\n\nTessiner Zeitung is a Swiss German-language regional newspaper, published in Locarno, Ticino.\n\n\"Tessiner Zeitung\" was first published in Locarno on 1 September 1908 and was founded by Pietro Giugno. In May 1918 the paper was acquired by a group of journalists who published another newspaper \"Freie Zeitung\".\n\nThe paper was published three times per week and had a circulation of 5,000 copies at the beginning of the 1990s. Then the paper began to be published weekly on Fridays. According to WEMF AG, the newspaper had a circulation of 10,002, .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081477", "title": "John Barton (theologian)", "text": "John Barton (theologian)\n\nJohn Barton (born 17 June 1948) is a British Anglican priest and biblical scholar. From 1991 to 2014, he was the Oriel and Laing Professor of the Interpretation of Holy Scripture at the University of Oxford and a Fellow of Oriel College. In addition to his academic career, he has been an ordained and serving priest in the Church of England since 1973. His research interests and extensive publications have been in the areas of the Old Testament prophets, the biblical canon, biblical interpretation, and Old Testament theology. From 2010 to 2013, he researched \"Ethics in Ancient Israel\", having been funded by a Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship. Barton is a foreign member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters and has been a Fellow of the British Academy since 2007. As of 2013, he continued to assist in services and other activities in the parish of Abingdon, in which he resides.\n\nJohn Barton was born on 17 June 1948 in London, England. He was educated at Latymer Upper School, an independent school in Hammersmith, London. He studied theology at Keble College, Oxford, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in 1969: as per tradition, his BA was promoted to a Master of Arts (MA Oxon) degree in 1973. He moved to Merton College, Oxford, to undertake postgraduate research, and completed his Doctor of Philosophy (DPhil) degree in 1974. His doctoral thesis was titled \"The Relation of God to Ethics in the Eighth Century Prophets\". He was awarded a Doctor of Letters (DLitt) degree, a higher doctorate, by the University of Oxford in 1988.\n\nBarton was as a Junior Research Fellow at Merton College, Oxford, between 1973 and 1974. In 1974, he was elected a Fellow of St Cross College, Oxford, and made a university lecturer in theology (Old Testament) at the University of Oxford. He was promoted from lecturer to Reader in Biblical Studies in 1989. In 1991, he was made Oriel and Laing Professor of the Interpretation of Holy Scripture and therefore elected a Fellow of Oriel College, Oxford. From 2010 to 2013 he held a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship for work on a project entitled \"Ethics in Ancient Israel\". He stepped down as Oriel and Laing Professor in 2014, and was made an Emeritus Fellow of Oriel College. Since 2014, he has been a Senior Research Fellow of Campion Hall, Oxford, a Jesuit-run permanent private hall of the University of Oxford.\n\nHe has been a Delegate of Oxford University Press since 2005. From 2004 to 2010 he was joint editor of the \"Journal of Theological Studies\" and is one of two Anglophone editors for the German monograph series \"Beihefte zur Zeitschrift für die alttestamentliche Wissenschaft\", published in Berlin.\n\nIn 1973, Barton was ordained in the Church of England as a deacon and priest. Concentrating on his academic career, he did not hold an ecclesiastical position until 1979 when he was made chaplain of St Cross College, Oxford. He continued this ministry until he left St Cross College for Oriel College, Oxford in 1991. In addition to his professorial appointment, he served as Canon Theologian of Winchester Cathedral between 1991 and 2003. He assists in services and other activities in the parish of Abingdon, in which he resides.\n\nFrom 2000 to 2005 and from 2009 to 2010 he served on the church's General Synod, representing the clergy of the University of Oxford. He sits on the Governing Body of Ripon College Cuddesdon, and was elected President of Modern Church in 2011. In 2013, Barton resigned from the office due to ill health, but he continues to serve on the editorial board of the periodical, \"Modern Church\".\n\nBarton's research interests have included the Old Testament prophets, the biblical canon, biblical interpretation, Old Testament theology, as well as biblical ethics.\n\nIn 2007, Barton was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences. He is also a Corresponding Fellow of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters. \n\nIn 1998, Barton was awarded an honorary Doctor of Theology (Dr. theol.) degree by the University of Bonn.\n\n\"A History of the Bible: The Book and Its Faiths\" was shortlisted for the 2020 Wolfson History Prize.\n\n\n\n\nIn 1973, Barton married Mary Burn. Together they have one daughter.\n\nBarton lives in the parish of Abingdon.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2081490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081490", "title": "Kmeria", "text": "Kmeria\n\nKmeria is a genus of tree in the family Magnoliaceae, consisting of 5 species, native to eastern Asia in southern China and Indochina. The species \"Kmeria duperreana\" is known for yielding kmeriol.\n\nThe genus was previously included in \"Magnolia\", from which it was separated on the basis of its unisexual flowers and ventral mode of dehiscence. It is not accepted in the draft Magnoliaceae account in the \"Flora of China\", where the species are divided between the genera \"Woonyongia\" (\"K. septentrionalis\") and \"Parakmeria\" (the others).\n\n"}
{"id": "2081493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081493", "title": "Mreža", "text": "Mreža\n\nMreža (\"net\" in Croatian) was the first private Croatian television network. It was founded in 1997. From its Zagreb studios, it produced original programs that were later aired on various local and regional stations.\n\nThe arrival of Mreža was quite a notable event in Croatian media history, because it was the first time the media monopoly of state-owned Croatian Radiotelevision (HRT) was significantly challenged. Mreža produced original programs in the form of its own news, as well as lavishly produced shows. Mreža also poached some important talent from HRT, including Denis Latin and his popular \"Latinica\" talk show.\n\nOne of the owners of Mreža was the controversial tycoon Miroslav Kutle, and his activities caused the network to fail. Burdened with debts and financial mismanagement, Mreža disappeared from the Croatian airwaves in 1998, taking a few of the local affiliates with it, including TV Marjan from Split.\n"}
{"id": "2081495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081495", "title": "The Comedians (novel)", "text": "The Comedians (novel)\n\nThe Comedians (1966) is a novel by Graham Greene. Set in Haiti under the rule of François \"Papa Doc\" Duvalier and his secret police, the \"Tontons Macoutes\", the novel explores the political suppression and terrorism through the figure of an English hotel owner, Brown.\n\nThe story begins as three men, Brown, Smith, an \"innocent\" American, and Major H. O. Jones, a confidence man, meet on a ship bound for Haiti. Brown, Smith, and Jones, their names suggesting a curious facelessness, are the \"comedians\" of Greene's title. Complications include Brown's friendship with a rebel leader, politically charged hotel guests, the manipulations of a British arms dealer, and an affair with Martha Pineda, the wife of a South American ambassador. The setting for much of the novel, the Hotel Trianon, was inspired by the Hotel Oloffson in central Port-au-Prince.\n\nThe novel was adapted as a feature film of the same name, released in 1967 and starring Richard Burton, Elizabeth Taylor, Alec Guinness, Peter Ustinov, James Earl Jones, Cicely Tyson, Paul Ford and Lillian Gish.\n\nThe main characters travel to Haiti on the \"Medea,\" a Dutch ship serving the capital Port-au-Prince and the Dominican Republic. The narrator is Mr. Brown, returning from an unsuccessful trip to the United States to sell his hotel, located in the capital. Other figures are Mr. Smith, a US Presidential candidate who ran on the vegetarian ticket in the American election of 1948; he and Mrs. Smith plan to build and operate a vegetarian centre in Haiti. \"Major\" Jones, an Anglo-Indian businessman, is personable and has many war stories that are not quite believable.\n\nBrown returns to his hotel, where he finds that government minister Philipot has committed suicide in his pool. He had apparently become on the outs with the government. Brown has to dispose of the body to avoid being implicated. Meanwhile, Jones is arrested as soon as he sets foot on Haitian soil. Brown convinces Mr. Smith to use his 'political weight' to help Jones get out of prison. With only the help of a pen and some paper, Jones is able to forge his way into the Haitian government.\n\nThe body of Secretary Philipot is found and his family tries to hold a funeral. The president's paramilitary force, the Tontons Macoutes, ambush the procession and steal the body. Philipot's nephew decides to join the rebel forces, and first is required to take part in a voodoo initiation ceremony.\n\nBrown reunites with his lover, Martha Pineda, wife of the Uruguayan ambassador. She is still unwilling to leave her husband and child. Realizing they can't pursue their dream in Haiti, Mr. and Mrs. Smith leave for the neighbouring Dominican Republic.\n\nJones has become an enemy of the state, and Brown tries to get him out of the country. Believing Jones is a threat to his relationship with Martha, he persuades him to join the rebels in the north. Jones' lack of military sense is soon revealed and he is killed in action, while the rebellion fails. Duvalier consolidates his power and Brown, unable to return to his hotel, goes to Santo Domingo. There he works as a mortician.\n\n\n\"The New York Times\" noted that Greene writes about dark places, and this novel explores Haiti under Duvalier and his paramilitary, known as the Tontons Macoutes. Greene explores \"despair at evil triumphant, sustained by dollar-aid from the U.S.A.\" He portrays \"despair at the death of the good Communist doctor and the would-be-good confidence trickster, Major Jones.\" The reviewer recognised Greene's studies of persons who were failures, as \"grey\" was uppermost in his literary world. But, \"Nevertheless he [Jones] is the novel's hero. He can die- he can succeed in that- and he dies heroically, covering the retreat of the rest, since his flat feet would only delay the whole party if he were to try to escape with his men.\" He also praised Greene's writing with \"much liveliness and skill, and with such a will and ability to please and carry us along\" that we want to visit his lands.\n\nIn \"The New York Review of Books\", Sybille Bedford described this tenth novel by Greene as \"a work of strength and freshness, and in its core there lies the steel coil of compulsion.\" She describes the novel as a \"very good story, as we have come to expect.\" In describing the characters, she notes that Brown goes to Haiti as \"the only place on earth where he might be said to have a stake, a love affair, and a piece of property.\"\n\nIn his \"Ways of Escape\", Greene wrote that the book \"touched him [Duvalier] on the raw.\" Duvalier attacked \"The Comedians\" in the press. His Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a brochure entitled, \"Graham Greene \"Demasqué\"\" (Finally Exposed). It described Greene as \"A liar, a cretin, a stool-pigeon... unbalanced, sadistic, perverted... a perfect ignoramus... lying to his heart's content... the shame of proud and noble England... a spy... a drug addict... a torturer.\" (\"The last epithet has always a little puzzled me,\" Greene confessed.)\n\nThe novel was rapidly adapted as a 1967 feature film of the same name, with the screenplay written by Graham Greene. It was directed and produced by Peter Glenville, and starred Richard Burton, Elizabeth Taylor, Alec Guinness, and Peter Ustinov.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081497", "title": "Euros Lyn", "text": "Euros Lyn\n\nEuros Lyn () (born 1971) is a Welsh television director.\n\nLyn started out directing Welsh-language shows broadcast on S4C such as \"Pam Fi Duw?\", \"Iechyd Da\" and \"Y Glas\".\n\nHe directed nine episodes of \"Doctor Who\" and won the BAFTA Cymru award for Best Director for \"Silence in the Library\" and the 2007 Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation, Short Form for \"The Girl in the Fireplace\". He also directed David Tennant's last episodes of \"Doctor Who\".\n\nIn 2008, he directed \"\", the five-episode \"Torchwood\" mini-series (often called series 3 of the show).\n\nIn 2007, he directed the pilot of \"George Gently\", based on the \"Inspector Gently\" novels by Alan Hunter, for BBC One. He has also directed four episodes of the long-running BBC medical drama \"Casualty\".\n\nLyn won the BAFTA Cymru for Best Director three times, most recently for the first series of \"Sherlock\" with Benedict Cumberbatch and Martin Freeman, which also won RTS and BAFTA Best Drama awards. He also directed \"Fifteen Million Merits\", an episode of the anthology series \"Black Mirror\" for Channel 4, which won an International Emmy for Best Drama Series. In 2013 he directed three episodes of \"Broadchurch\" with David Tennant and Olivia Colman, and a further three episodes of the second instalment of BAFTA-winning series \"Last Tango in Halifax\", after directing three episodes of the first series.\n\nThe crime series \"Happy Valley\", which Lyn directed, was shown on BBC One in 2014. In 2015 the show won the BAFTA award for Best Drama Series. He also directed episodes of \"Gracepoint\" (FOX USA), \"Cucumber\" (Channel 4) and \"Daredevil\" (Netflix USA).\n\nIn 2015 Lyn received the Siân Phillips Award at the BAFTA Cymru ceremony for his contributions to the industry. In the same year, he directed the three-part BBC series \"Capital\" based on John Lanchester's novel of the same name.\n\nIn 2016 Lyn directed his first feature film, the Welsh-language \"Y Llyfrgell\" (\"The Library Suicides\") starring Ryland Teifi, Catrin Stewart, Dyfan Dwyfor and Sharon Haf Morgan.\n\nLyn was born in Cardiff. His family moved to north Wales and later back south to Swansea, he now lives in Llangennith, Gower. He was educated at Ysgol Gyfun Ystalyfera and studied Drama at the University of Manchester. He is a Welsh speaker. In 2015 Lyn married his partner, Craig Hughes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081503", "title": "Association of European Rarities Committees", "text": "Association of European Rarities Committees\n\nThe Association of European Rarities Committees is a co-ordinating and liaison body for the bird rarities committees of Europe and other nearby countries.\n\nIt was created in 1993 at a meeting of European rarities committees on the German island of Heligoland.\n\nThe association's aims are as follows:\n\n\nFor a list of AERC members, see List of the member committees of the Association of European Rarities Committees\n\n"}
{"id": "2081506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081506", "title": "AERC", "text": "AERC\n\nAERC may refer to one of the following.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081514", "title": "Messerschmitt Kabinenroller", "text": "Messerschmitt Kabinenroller\n\nThe Messerschmitt Kabinenroller (Messerschmitt Cabin Scooter) was a series of microcars made by Messerschmitt from 1953 to 1956 and by Fahrzeug- und Maschinenbau GmbH, Regensburg (FMR) from 1956 to 1964. All the Messerschmitt and FMR production cars used the Kabinenroller's monocoque structure, featuring tandem seating and usually a bubble canopy.\n\nThe Kabinenroller platform was used for four microcars, the three-wheeled Messerschmitt KR175 (1953-1955), Messerschmitt KR200 (1955-1964) and Messerschmitt KR201, and the four-wheeled FMR Tg500 (1957-1961). The platform and all four cars using it were designed by Fritz Fend.\n\nThe Kabinenroller was designed and developed by Fritz Fend for Messerschmitt AG. Fend had earlier designed and built a series of unpowered and powered invalid carriages, leading up to his Fend Flitzer. Fend noticed that able-bodied people were buying Flitzers for use as personal transport. This led him to believe that a mass-produced two-seat version of the Flitzer would have a ready market. A search for a manufacturer interested in the project led him to Messerschmitt, who had him develop the project for production in their Regensburg factory.\n\nThe Kabinenroller was designed and developed for production in 1952 and 1953. Production of the original version, the KR175, began in February 1953. 70 modifications had been made to the design by June 1953.\nThe KR200 was developed on the Kabinenroller platform and replaced the KR175 in 1955. Based on the same frame and an evolution of the original suspension, the KR200 had a large number of detail changes. On 29–30 August 1955, a modified KR200 with a tuned engine, revised gear ratios, redundant control cables, a one-off streamlined body, and stock suspension, damping, steering, and brakes, was run at the Hockenheimring for twenty-four hours. During the run, the vehicle set twenty-two closed-circuit speed records for three-wheeled vehicles with displacements up to 250 cc, including the fifty-mile record at and the twenty-four-hour record at .\n\nThe Kabinenroller was based on a central monocoque tub made from pressed steel sheet and tubular steel. The tub tapered upward from front to rear with a bulkhead at the back. The bulkhead supported a tubular steel subframe and acted as the firewall. The subframe supported the engine and the rear suspension. The engine cover was hinged to the monocoque structure. The fuel tank was in the top of the engine cover and fed the carburettor by gravity.\n\nThe monocoque tub, with the bulkhead at the back, a nose section at the front, and an access hatch system overhead, formed a passenger compartment for a driver and a passenger sitting in tandem. The base plate on which the hatch was hinged was riveted to the right side of the monocoque tub and the nose section. The hatch was made of a steel sheet base with a glass windshield, a plexiglas bubble canopy, and a framed set of sliding windows on either side of the canopy.\n\nThe tandem seating allowed the body to be long and narrow, with a low frontal area. This also allowed the body to taper like an aircraft fuselage, within a practical length.\n\nFront suspension of the Kr 200 Kabinenroller (the Kr175 had a different arrangement with rubber cones) was by a transverse lower arm sprung by a torsional 3-element rubber spring at the inside end. Front suspension travel was limited by rubber buffers. Rear suspension was by a trailing arm similar to a single-sided motorcycle swingarm which also formed the enclosure for the chain drive to the rear wheel. The trailing arm was suspended by another torsional rubber spring. Hydraulic dampers were added to the design with the introduction of the KR200 in 1955; also the front track was increased at that time.\n\nThe shaft of the steering control was connected directly to the track rods controlling the front wheels, resulting in approximately one-third of a turn from the left extreme to the right extreme (\"lock to lock\"). The handlebar-shaped steering control would be operated with small, controlled inputs by swivelling the steering bar about its axis from the horizontal (straight-ahead) position instead of rotating it as with a conventional steering wheel.\n\nThe performance of the record car convinced Fend to design a sports car based on the Kabinenroller platform. The FMR Tg500 was introduced in 1958, two years after Fahrzeug- und Maschinenbau Gmbh, Regensburg (FMR) took over production of the Kabinenroller from Messerschmitt. The Tg500 used the Kabinenroller's unit body, front bodywork, front suspension, and steering system, but the rear subframe and bodywork were completely different.\n\nThe Tg500's most noticeable difference from other Kabinenrollern is its pair of rear wheels. These were driven by halfshafts with universal joints at both ends and a sliding spline allowing the length of the shaft to vary, accommodating changes in camber angle. The wheels were suspended by control arms and coil springs with concentric hydraulic shock absorbers. The rear track was \n\nThe tubular subframe to which the rear suspension was attached also held the drivetrain, which consisted of a transversely-mounted FMR 500 L straight-twin two-stroke engine and an unsynchronized four-speed transaxle with a reverse gear.\n\nThe Tg500 had a front track of , up from the KR200's . It also used larger tires, 4.40 x 10 to the KR200's 4.40 x 8, and four-wheel hydraulic brakes.\n\n"}
